EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The conference of the Relief Society of
the Salt Lake Stake of Zion will be held in
the 14th Ward Hall in this city, Saturday,
March 2, 1901. It is desired by the officers
that there be a good attendance from all
parts of the Stake.
	The sisters in all of the Relief Society
branches throughout the Stakes of Zion and
its missions are reminded that the 17th of
March is near at hand, and that the annual
meeting on the anniversary of the organiza-
tion, March 17th, 1842, is to be observed
as usual, and the ten cent fund of member-
ship collected. But as the 17th of March
this year is on the Sabbath day, it will
probably be kept either on Saturday or Mon-
day, as may be most convenient for each
respective society, according to circum-
stances.
	The first Parliament of the reign of King
Edward VII, was opened Valentine Day,
February 14, 1901, by the king in person.
He was accompanied by Queen Alexandra,
the Duke of Connaught and other members of
the royal family. The gorgeous State
coach was used by the king and queen in
driving from Buckingham palace to West-
minister where the ceremonies took place.
The chariot was drawn by eight famous
cream-colored horses with postilions in red
and gold liveries, and footmen leading the
horses. The chariot was preceded and fol-
lowed by life-guards in full uniform with
silver breastplates and red-plumed helmets,
a small escort of gentlemen-at-arms in his-
toric costumes immediately surrounded the
royal coach. The crowd was immense and
the roars and shouts of the multitude is said
to have been deafening. Thus the king,
who has always been considered a liberal,
makes his first public appearance after taking,
the formal oath of His Majesty’s office. The
king wore a field marshal chapeau when he
read his speech, which was not a lengthy
document, but dealt with special subjects,
War with South Africa, Capture of Pekin,
Australian Commonwealth, Rebellion in
Ashanti, Drouth in India, Estimates to be
Submitted, the Military Force and the Irish
Land Question. The whole world will
look anxiously for the future course of this
new king and emperor. Indeed it is to be
expected that having such an admirable
mother he will be moderate in his career
and wise in statesmanship.
	The Legislature visited Provo in a body
on Wednesday and looked over the Insane
Asylum, as is their duty, it being a State
Institute. Dr. and Mrs. Hardy, who are in
charge, had made elaborate preparations
and about three hundred guests were seated
at the four long tables in the chapel, which
was handsomely decorated with stars and
stripes and festooned with bunting, and potted
palms on the platform, where the band
played delightful music during the dinner.
Dr. Hardy spoke briefly for the needs of the
institution and the Governor followed in his
original and happy style. President of the
Senate, Evans, made a telling speech.
Mr. Glassman, Chairman of the House of


Representatives, also spoke of the subject in
question, the need of more room for these
unfortunate men and women. A few other
speakers were called and time was up and
the party, who had been invited to visit the
B. Y. Academy, repaired thither. At the
Academy the Lecture hall was filled
with young men and women students, a
pleasing sight indeed, and promises much
for the future of the State. Here again the
Governor, President of the Senate, and
Hon. John T. Axton, made brief remarks
and “America” was sung with much spirit
by the students and visitors.
	The sudden demise of Dr. Karl G
Maeser has taken the community by sur-
prise. In his death the State of Utah has
lost one of its strongest educational pillars.
Prof. Maeser was untiring in his efforts to
advance a perfect system of education among
the masses of the people. His whole life
was given to noble service for the good of
his fellow men. He filled important posi-
tions in the schools of his own country be-
fore moving to America. In Dr. Maeser’s
conversion to Mormonism and his coming to
Utah some very remarkable incidents oc-
cur, which are powerful testimonies to the
truth of the Gospel. Prof. Maeser before
going to Utah to found the Brigham Young
Academy, was employed in the University
of Utah, and many young men and women
now filling places of importance in this State
and elsewhere studied under his tutelage in
that institution in the old Council House.
Too much cannot be said in favor of this
devoted servant of the Lord. It is an irre-
parable loss for the time being to the people;
the work will go forward notwithstanding.
Sometimes when such earnest, humble,
faithful and unassuming men and women
pass away, the question arises, “Have we
sufficiently appreciated their labors?” If we
have not, it is a good time to begin now
and help build up and strengthen those who
labor zealously and unremittingly for Zion.
Dear Brother Maeser, how gentle, yet firm!
What a beautiful life, so full of good deeds,
charity, mercy, benevolence, integrity and
all the virtues that adorn and glorify man-
kind. His death was beautiful, and it may
certainly be said of him that [-]e fell asleep
and never tasted death, as many of the
Saints have been promised if they continue
faithful.


