EDITORIAL NOTES.
	In the Twelfth Ward, in this city,
Bishop H. B. Clawson and Relief Society
President Julia Druce united in celebrating
the anniversary of the organization of the
Relief Society in 1842, and the affair was a
brilliant success. A fine banquet was
given and all present had the opportunity
of partaking of the delicious viands. Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon pronounced the


blessing upon the food. The program was
delightfully carried out, Elder Thomas L.
Woodbury was master of ceremonies and
carried his part well. George Margetts
and Sydney Clawson provoked a great deal
of merriment and Mrs. Nellie Brown
warbled ragtime melodies quite naturally
to the accompaniment of the banjo. Music,
both vocal and instrumental, was excep-
tionally good, and the solos by Nellie
Druce Pugsley and Seymour B. Young, Jr.,
were simply divine. Indeed where all do
well it is difficult to make special references
but an exception must be made in favor of
Miss Druce’s piano playing, she bids
fair to make a brilliant pianist. Governor
Wells was present by invitation, as also
several other notable men and women.
	On Friday evening the 21st of March,
the Saints of the Fourteenth Ward and
many of the old-time residents, now scat-
tered in other parts of the city, held a re-
union under the auspices of the Bishop,
but the affair was largely in the hands of
the young people. Love and goodfellow-
ship abounded, and there was a fine pro-
gram rendered and many interesting
reminiscences were given. This historic
building is one of the first of its kind
erected in this city and many enjoyable
gatherings have convened there. Presi-
dent Brigham Young and many of his col-
leagues have danced there in the early
days, President Eliza R. Snow Smith has
often been present there, both on festive
and sacred occasions. It has always been
a favorite place for recreation as well as
meetings. Dr. Willard Richards, Dr. Levi
Richards, and Elder Phineas Richards, all
resided in that ward, also Apostle Frank-
lin D. Richards and his brothers, Samuel
B. and Henry P. Richards, for very many
years. President John Taylor and Patri-
arch Joseph Horne, also at an early period
President George Q. Cannon; and his
brother, Angus M., President of this Stake
of Zion, is still a resident there. Many
old-timers made brief remarks during the
evening, there was sweet singing and
music and dancing, and the program
closed with “Auld Lang Syne.” Delic-
ous refreshments were served to all the
invited guests and the hours flew swiftly
by. These are the green spots in life’s
pathway.


