AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON
			(Continued.)

	It was on the 3rd of September, 1852,
that we arrived, and the people were busy
discussing a sermon that Orson Pratt had
given the Sunday before our arrival.
	After resting some time and taking din-
ner with Brother Smith, I left Brother and
Sister Layton and went with my sister to
Kaysville, Davis Co., where she and her
husband had made a home,
	I staid with my sister a few days, but it
seemed that the only subject discussed was
what Orson Pratt had preached. I then
realized that there were more covenants and
obligations to enter into and I fully believed
the principle was true, but I felt that I was
not prepared to live in that order. I made
it a matter of prayer before the Lord, that
if I were not able to live up to those
covenants, that I might be released from my
promise. I spoke to Brother and Sister
Layton about it, and told them I did not
want to make those sacred covenants lest I
should not be able to live up to them. And
still in that principle there are promises that
are no where else. I realized I had coven-
anted to serve the Lord, and I could not
deny that as one of His orders for us to
obey if we would secure the highest degree
of glory, I sometimes wished that I had
not promised to obey that order. The
struggle to decide whether or not to enter
that order of marriage caused me to lose
many a night's sleep, and caused me to
utter many a fervent prayer to the Lord
that He would guide me. I felt that if I
now refused to respect the promise that I
had made I would be despised by my best
friends, and lose the respect of those who
once looked up to me, and those to whom I
had made promises would lose confidence in
me. I had believed the principle to be true
for a long time, and had heard one of the
apostles of this dispensation declare that the
Lord had given revelation telling the peo-
ple that they were to enter into that princi-
ple if they would have the highest degree
of glory. I had covenanted to serve the
Lord; I had obeyed the first principles of
Gospel, and in that I was told that I must
not stand still but must go on. On the
other hand, I remembered the words of my
father and mother. I thought of my
inability to live up to the requirements.

[Column 2]
I could find no way to be honorable to get
out of my promise. It seemed that the
more I tried to find a way to get away and
break my promise. the closer they would
cling to me. I could find fault with no-
body or nothing, but myself so I decided
to make the best of it. I told my Heaven-
ly Father that if He would give me strength
I would obey this principle and would do
the best I could trying to live up to it. So
Sunday, September 26, 1852, after the
morning meeting, we went to the Council
House, just south of where the Tabernacle
is, and there I was sealed to Brother Lay-
ton. I believed that I did right then, and I
think so till this day, for the principle is
true, but there are many hills to climb along
that road, and I have climbed a few, but am
satisfied.
	Brother Layton bought a home in the
Fifteenth Ward, and made some additions
to the building and we were very comfor-
tably situated. He had a great many cattle
that he had brought from the East, and
they were running loose over Jordan. He
thought it best to put a small house
over there and move where he could see
after the stock. So he bought logs and
put up a small room, and on the 9th of
November we started for our new home.
The snow was very deep, so deep that it
piled in great heaps in front of the axle.
There was a great thaw at that time and
when we reached the house the water was
running through it; there was no roof over
it, but we got some willows from the river
and placed on the top and then put some
dirt on top of them and soon had shelter.
	That was a very cold, hard winter. We
lost many of our fine blooded stock. One
night, I well remember, there was a very
heavy storm from the north and one of our
best mares came up to the side of the
house and cried so pitifully that my hus-
band could not bear to hear it, so he got up
and brought it in the room where we were
sleeping; and though the house was small,
the animal was put in one side, there it
stood quiet all night and its life was saved.
	On January 1, 1853, Sister Layton gave
birth to a boy. That night it began to
rain, and our roof was not water-proof so
that the water came through the roof all
over, not excepting where Sister Layton
was lying. We kept her dry as best we
could with a large umbrealla and oilcloth
coat. I had stored a few pieces of slab
away, and this came in very handy then
for fire. This and the green willows that
we had for fuel kept the fire going all
night, and we got along very well, neither
Sister Layton nor the infant took cold and
we could but acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in preserving them under such cir-
cumstances. We were happy and enjoyed
ourselves, but I sometimes think that if the
young people of today had that to go
through, what would they do?
	My father, mother and family emigrated
to Utah in the year ’53. My father did
not join the Church until he reached Utah.
In the spring the Indians were very
troublesome in many of the settlements,
and in places where it was thinly settled;
but although we were away from everybody
we never saw an Indian.
	In August we moved back to Salt Lake
to our home for the winter, and on the 8th
of August I gave birth to my first son, we
gave him the name of Hyrum John. The
next spring my husband bought a place on
Emigration Street, in the Thirteenth

[Column 3]
Ward, and we set up a butcher shop and
we began the business; we also had one on
Main Street. Having so much grease, as
we would in that business, we made a
great deal of soap and candles. We were
glad to get the candles to burn in those
days, for lamps were a rarity, and not all
could afford to buy candles. We were not
troubled with so many of the diseases as
we have now, we had no use for so many
lawyers as we have now and we did not
have all of these pleasure resorts to draw
the people away, but we lived and minded
our own business and attended to the work
in which we were engaged and had the
blessing of the Lord to depend upon. We
did very well with that business, and the
people in passing through the country to
the land of gold, as it was called, would
bring many things that were useful to us.
	In the spring of 1855 President Young
advised Brother Layton to give up the
butcher business and go into the country
and buy a farm. He obeyed counsel and
went into Tooele County and bought a
farm from Mr. Seth M. Blair. The farm
was near Grantsville and we moved to that
place for the winter. On the 18th of
January, 1856, my second child, a girl,
was born, and we called her Mary Ann. I
was very sick that winter, and came near
losing my life.
	At the April conference Brother Layton,
together with a number of others, was
called to take his family and all that he
had and go to the Carson valley, both as
missionary and to settle that part of the
country. We sold our farm to a man
named John Caley, and by the 1st of May
we were ready to start. The 10th of May
found us crossing Bear river. We arrived
at the Washa valley about July 16th
Brother Layton immediately started for
California to get the flour, as we had but
very little. The day he arrived we had
but enough to make one pan of biscuits,
and we had been very saving that it should
last till his return. It was a difficult thing
to get salt and what we did get we paid
twenty cents a pound for, while sugar was
selling for eight cents. But we had to be
very careful with everything to eat, for all
that we had was brought over the mount-
ains from California on pack mules or
horses. We kept a small store and took in
considerable money that way. But we were
left without men in camp very often and
the Indians would flock around our camp.
They would come and cook their game on
our stove and spread their blankets down
on the ground by the side of our wagons
and sleep, but there was not much sleep
for me when they were around. Brother
Layton’s father, a blind man, was with us
in camp all the time, but with that exception
we were left with our children days at a
time, but they never molested us in the
least. We attended to our prayers and had
the satisfaction of knowing that we were
remembered by our Heavenly Father. Late
in the fall Brother Layton built a large log
house, and then we were in good condition
for the winter.
		(To be continued.)


MISS ROSE LANE, of Buffalo, N. Y., who
died a short time ago, has been described as
a “mother to thousands,” from the fact
that as the “orphan agent” of Erie County
she had found homes for nearly three 
thousand children.


Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.


