[Column 1]
HOME AND IDEALS.
	Whether built of logs or marble, be the
surroundings picturesque or desolate, a spot
marked by squalor or opulence, the four
walls of home close in and nurse the best
there is in man.
	The love for mother in the tender babe
grows upward to the stars to the “Fear of
God.”
	The love for little brothers and sisters
goes out from widely stretched arms to the
“Universal Brotherhood of man.” 
	The birds on the garden shrubs unfold

[Column 2]
their secrets to the growing child, from
birds, blossoms, fruit seed, over and again
he learns his first lesson of his relation to
God and nature.
	If art reigns in the home there will grow
out of it beautiful parks, streets, thorough-
fares and cities.
	If art reigns in the home it will be sur-
rounded and filled with the influence of
Honesty, Purpose, Work, Simplicity,
Sentiment, Peace, Unity and Harmony,
while banished must be Coarseness, Vulgar-
ity, Deceit, Slothfulness, Shallowness,
Gaudiness, Discord and Unrest.
	Life in the influence of art trains the soul
to respond to the God-like in man and
nature, to feel the beautiful and to cherish
and follow higher ideals. Soul greatness is
the ultimate end and aim of all effort.
	When this life is done I believe men will
be judged more by what they think and feel
and love and know than for the deeds done
in the flesh.
	A life consumed by following society’s
unprofitable and foolish fashions has a par-
allel in that of a woman who never takes a
moment for study and self-improvement but
makes herself a very slave to her home.
The home must be kept sweet and clean
but the brain is as prone to get cobwebby as
the best room.
	A little regular study in some line that is
interesting will be a source of rest and in-
spiration. In every soul there is a spark of
greatness, there is a feeling, a desire to
create something beautiful. Do not crush
that feeling. Read Christ’s lesson about
the Talents. Do you ever stop and consider
that God has given you mental power to be
used and improved for your own good? If
you have a gift in composing pursue it to
the end of your days. If your talent is
music, drawing, needlework, designing,
cabinet making, farming or any other line
of work, do not neglect it, but put into it the
best you are capable of giving.
	And right here let me say that there are
great opportunities for art in both house-
keeping and farming. Give the furnishing
of a room careful study, and, “be it ever so
humble,” it will be a work of art. Give
thought to the arrangement of your shrubs,
gardens, trees, house, sheds, lawns, and
your farm will be a living picture.
	So, I say, into that which you undertake
put the best workmanship your head and
hand can give.
	It must be the mass of individual effort
that will place Utah ahead of her sister
states, in art, in edcucation, in music, in in-
dustry. If the growing child is surrounded
with such influences that naturally feed his
sense of art it will help him to place the
purpose of his life where it should be—above
the Dollar mark, above all the trifling things
of the world. He will do things well, he
will labor to make a work of art rather than
to make money. It is the careless, dis-
honest, unprofessional, shoddy work, the
motto, “Anything that will sell” that
threatens the success of any community.
	Let Utah’s sons and daughters see the
danger which threatens and rise to their
duties.

[Column 3]
Let us not only have the best music in the
land but let others come to Utah for our
silks and laces, paintings and statuary.
	Let them come to learn our modes of
cooking, sewing, gardening, farming,
house building and all things that are
beautiful when well done.
