	JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS.

Dearly beloved Sisters, both far and near:

	With hearts full of gratitude and bless-
ings, we desire to offer you a few of our
thoughts and reflections concerning the
great work in which we, as daughters of our
Heavenly Father, are privileged to be en-
gaged.
	Were circumstances such as to permit of
our doing so, we should greatly rejoice in
visiting personally every branch of our
society, in speaking words of encourage-
ment, and where necessary offering sugges-
tions, and, perhaps, instructions, and in
shaking hands with every member; and
even the young ladies and the little chil-
dren who are to continue the work after us.
But in as much as it is impossible for us to
do this, we have decided to express our-
selves by means of writing. That you
may understand that our hearts are ever
full of loving appreciation of your faithful
and far-reaching labors and of prayers and
blessings for you all.
	To begin with, we bear you our testi-
mony that the work we are engaged in is
of God. That the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints and the Relief Society,
which is a portion of that Church, were
organized by the Prophet of the Lord. That
we knew Joseph Smith personally, and saw
and heard him many times speaking to the
Saints when he was so filled with the Spirit
of the Lord that his countenance became
transparent, and he looked and spoke like a
heavenly being. And the Holy Ghost bore
witness to us that Joseph Smith was a true
prophet of the living God.
	We desire to leave this testimony with
you all, and to have you understand and re-
member that the Prophet of the Lord organ-
ized our Relief Society that we might have the
glorious privilege of doing the same kind of
work that our Lord and Savior did when
He was upon this earth.
	We all know that he was interested in
looking after the sick and the afflicted, the
poor and the needy, the deaf and the dumb,
the blind and all who were discouraged or
in any way troubled. We should do all
these things cheerfully, according to the
beautiful example He has set for us, with
patience and long suffering, such as con-
tinued with Him to the last.
	Questions are often asked concerning the
requisite of a Relief Society president and
other officers of the organization. We may
answer that the holding of the sacred posi-
tion of President over a Relief Society is a
very responsible calling. It means much
besides the honor that may be attached to it.
It means constant care and solicitude, as
well as actual labor with head and hands
to keep all matters pertaining to the society
straight and right; to see that there is no
suffering of any kind in any quarter, over
which she has supervision, that there is a
possibility of relieving.
	When a sister accepts the position of
president over a Relief Society; she should
endeavor to fully consider the importance of
that position. The charitable, loving,
Gospel feelings which she must cherish to-
wards her counselors, the other officers and
all members of the Society. And the coun-
selors should be one with the president, al-
ways sustaining and upholding her in their
various duties. The president should als<o>

[Column 2]
respect her counselors, consulting with
them freely, the three being truly united, 
working in harmony, dividing responsibili-
ties and labors so that none shall be over-
taxed where it can be avoided, ever remem-
bering the Savior’s words to His disciples,
“Be ye one.”
	“He that thinketh he is something when
he is nothing, deceiveth himself.” This
passage of scripture expresses a sentiment
which we should never lose sight of. For
we are all as nothing, except the Spirit of
the Lord enlightens and helps us. If we
have not that Spirit to enable us to under-
stand and perform our duties we are not
prepared for Relief Society work; neither
can we become useful in the kingdom of
God in any capacity without the companion-
ship and assistance of His Holy Spirit. We
want to bear in mind constantly that “of
ourselves we are nothing.” We are but
frail instruments in God’s hands to assist in
His work.
	Never feel that one is of superior worth to
her neighbor, but that each is necessary in
her place. Those who hold office should
be more humble even than others. Who
should set the example of humilty, long-
suffering and charity for the failings of
others in the home but the mother? And
who in the Relief Society but the president?
And as with the president so with the
counselors, and indeed, all the other officers.
	And then: every member in the society
should consider it her duty and privilege to
uphold and assist by every means at her
disposal, the officers of the society to which
she belongs; just as a loving, faithful
daughter in the home should seek to relieve
the heavily burdened mother, as much as
possible, of her anxieties and re-
sponsibilities.
	The sisters should meet together often,
and a good, reliable record should be kept
of all that is done. A competent Secretary
is a most important factor in a society. The
Treasurer’s office is also a weighty one, and
must be filled by careful selection.
	And the teachers—oh what a responsible
position the teachers hold! How much
they require the Spirit of the Lord to help
them in their duties! Their visits to the
sisters must ever be in all kindness, love
and sympathy, to comfort, encourage and
relieve all suffering ones. Wisdom and
discretion should be among their gifts.
	These requisites, which we have but
briefly mentioned are some of the qualifica-
tions necessary to make capable officers in
the Relief Society. It is not to be supposed
that when appointed to office every sister
will be fully prepared to undertake her
duties without the probability of making
mistakes. But we must be willing to
learn and never be discouraged because of
some failures.
	The officers of a society must consult to-
gether, instructing and edifying each other
so that all may come to understand the re-
quirements of their positions.
	And here we will say, that misunder-
standings and disagreements which may arise
in the society, the sisters should settle in all
kindness, quietly and effectually among
themselves. They are an organized society
and should have the power and grace to ad-
just their own difficulties. Where they lack
wisdom, let them ask of God, who giveth
liberally and upbraideth not, and it will be
given.
	Among our young people, a knowledge
of the design of our Relief Society work
should be made more general than it is,

[Column 3]
Our children, sons as well as daughters
should be encouraged to visit our meetings
at least occasionally, that they may better
understand the purposes of this organization
to which their mothers belong.
	Hoping, dear sisters, that in the near
future we shall have the opportunity of
communicating further with you on these
most important subjects, we will now con-
clude by again extending to you our heart-
felt love and blessings, ever praying for
your welfare and happiness and the con-
tinued success and growth of our mutual
work.
	Your sincere sisters and colaborers,
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
				JANE S. RICHARDS,
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
