 			*	*	*
	In the throne room at the St James palace
a gathering of great men, cabinet ministers,
press commoners, Bishops, Judges, the Lord-
Mayor, etc., including the Duke of York,
the Duke of Connaught and lesser members.
of the royal family, Lord Salisbury, Lord
Rosebury, A. J. Balfour, the Duke of
Devonshire, Lord Strathcona and Mount-
Royal and prominent personages to see the
king take the formal oath, binding him to
govern the kingdom according to law and
customs, and hear him assume the title of
King Edward VII. of Great Britain and
Ireland and Emperor of India. The cere-
mony was according to precedent. The Duke
of Devonshire, Lord-President of the
Council, formally communicated the death of
Queen Victoria and the succession of her
son, the Prince of Wales.
	The Lord Chancellor, Lord Halsbury, ad-

[Column 3]
ministered the oath to the king, afterwards to
the various members of the Council, com-
mencing with the Lords in Council, took the
oath of allegiance and passed in turn before 
his majesty, as at a levee, excepting that each
paused and kissed the king’s hand before
passing out.”
	The King was lustily cheered as he drove
to Marlborough House, the crowd was im-
mense. Opposite the house gates a tall
gentleman raised his hat and shouted “Long
live the king,” when the crowd cheered more
loudly than ever. The king wore a military,
uniform at the ceremonies and his speech was
brief and extemporaneous.
	The proclamation of the accession of His
Majesty was signed by the princes present,
first Duke of York, the Duke of Connaught,
the Duke of Cambridge, Prince Christian,
the Arch-Bishop of Canterbury, the Lord-
Chancellor, the Lord-Mayor and the other
representatives of the city of London.
	At 4:30 p. m. the artillery began firing
salutes in St. James park to signalize King
Edward’s accession to the throne. There
were many other public testimonials of this
royal event.
The sympathy of all nations with the peo-
ple of Great Britain in the death of their
Queen is very apparent by the marks of pub-
lic respect and reverence, business suspended
and flags at half-mast, telegrams from all
nationalities announce the fact, of the love in
which she was held and eulogies of her good-
ness and popularity fill the papers of every
land.
	When the Pope received the news of the
Queen’s death, he dropped on his knees to
pray, remaining several minutes in that atti-
tude. He gave orders that in all the churches
prayers for her majesty be offered the follow-
ing day.
								Editor.


