[Column 1]
bound them to tradition, to classification
and to oppression, stricken from the manly
wrists; when she saw them awaken as from
a long sleep and grasp the reins of self-
government, free, free as divinity itself;
free to choose and the whole world to
choose from, she looked down at her own
slender hands and found them bound by a
far more delicate and ethereal band, but
none the less, bound!
	There came in the early part of this cen-
tury, born just at its dawn, just after the
smoke of the Lexington cannonading had
cleared entirely away, a young prophet into
the midst of men, and he taught them that
government was harmony with law; that
the only free soul is the one which is in tune
with the universe. Disobedience or inhar-
mony is slavery; yet obedience must
rest wholly and solely on the free agency of
man.
	It was a doctrine taught by Jesus to His
apostles, and retaught by Him to the
courageous young prophet.
	The soul of the young man hung upon
the altar of revelation.
	As he looked about the world he felt the
hem of his garment drawn away, and he
turned about; it was his mother, his wife,
his sister who held out to him in wordless
entreaty their delicately manacled wrists.
	He saw what other men could not see,
and his heart was moved within him; he and
his brothers had but late borne a similar
chain.
	With a smile he turned and said gently:
	“Here is the key; unloose thy bands.”
	What help he could he gave. But his
own life was hunted and driven, and at
last he was slain for his testimony.
	The revolutionary flag which was flung
to ‘the breeze starred and striped with
Freedom’s insignia, gave man his political
right; the fearless prophet voice whose
echoes even now are rapidly encircling the
globe—sounded in men’s ears spiritual
freedom; and as the very keynote of that
universal human right was sex freedom,
authority of choice, vested not in a few men
nor even in men alone, but in each one
alike, regardless of creed, color or sex.
	From the hour the key was given, great
and restless activity has marked every
phase of womanly life. One by one barriers
have been swept down and obstructions
cleared away. Here and there individuals
have, broken from the ranks, and have
created momentary confusion and trouble
through recklessness and lack of wisdom;
but the battle has been steadily on. Not
with powder and shell, not with beating
drum and flying flag; but with the subtle
weapons of the spirit, the warfare has been
waged.
	And what mighty generals have led the
forces—Eliza R. Snow, Susan B. Anthony,
Emma Smith, Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
Mary A. Livermore, Sarah M. Kimball
Margaret T. Smoot and Lucy Stone.
	It is incumbant on the student of these
problems to deduct from them some spiritual
conclusion.
	First: men have achieved, for the first
time in the world’s history, absolute right
of choice within the last century. The
awakening came at the close of the former
century, and the close of this sees the grand
accomplished fact.
	Woman received the key to her individu-
ality in the first part of this century, a little
behind her brother in that awakening,
consequently a little behind in the accom-
plishment of the whole purpose. 

[Column 2]
What humanity has received from the
freedom of man, will be doubled in extent
when the freedom of woman is as thorough-
ly established in even this one country.
	The right of choice!
	The right to do or not to do; to choose
any occupation, climate or companion. The
right to ascend, as well as the unhappy
power to descend in the scale of existence.
The precious right of a voice at the ballot,
and the no less precious power to choose
her traditional place in society or to reject it
if she will.
	When woman has acheived her per-
fect liberty, she will choose to be tender,
gentle, intuitional, and, in a word, woman-
ly; she will eschew too active public life,
and she will esteem her natural sphere as
godlike and perfect. But she must be al-
lowed to elect this herself, not be man or
men or even other women, say she ought or
she shall. She will possess and exercise in
full her heaven-ordained right of choice.
Then will come, in this beautiful (20th)
century, whose dawn purples all the hills of
progress, the ideal woman side by side with
the ideal man. She is very near, and be-
side her stands the Mighty One, who died
to redeem all mankind.
	Two notes must be sounded at the close
of this brief exposition: let all men and all
women guard carefully word and thought
when dealing in any wise with the subtle
warfare. For a word may hasten, an act re-
tard, the coming of the ideal. So, too, must
the hand which has been set to the plough,
not weaken in its grasp. Onward! no mat-
ter what be the obstructions.
	The last word of caution is to that eager
restless woman-heart, which sent to spy out
the land of Caanan, and intoxicated with
the beauty and glory of it all, grows reck-
less in her advice to the home army, and
would sweep away and trample down every
opposing force. There is a new element in
our spiritual evolution; even as this sex-
battle is ethereal and indefinable instead of
being waged with arrows or lead, so in our
earth history we have grown away from
retaliation and force. Not bullets with
smiles, not forts but firesides, not revenge
but love, not to force our way but to win it,
this is the inscription on the key which was
put into the woman’s hands over half a
century ago.
	Therefore, the sum of all science, of all
art, of all religion is the development of
man; and out of the ashes of this dead cen-
tury there rises a pure spirit of Progress
which paces towards us, not as man alone
in deified form and mien, nor as woman
alone elevated by sentiment or selfishness;
but side by side they come, the ideal man
and the ideal woman of the (20th) century,
content, smiling, glorified!
