[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM. 
It would be utterly impossible even to 
attempt to do justice in words to so eminent 
a man and so true a Latter-day Saint as 
President George Q. Cannon; yet some ex-
pression we must give, some tribute we 
must pay to his memory and loving ser-
vice for humanity and the people of his 
own faith, so near and dear to him, and the 
cause for which he would willingly have 
laid down his own life; how faithfully he 
served thousands can and do bear witness.
A great and good man, a giant in intellectu-
al endowments, a pure-minded and chaste 
man, though he was reviled and persecuted 
for his belief in the principles which the 
world condemn. 
President Cannon was one of nature's 
noblemen, refined, sensitive, tender and 
true as steel, his whole life was a grand 
poem in itself, and one could truthfully 
say of him, as Shakespeare said of one of 
his heroes: 
"His life was gentle, and the elements 
So mixt in him, that nature might stand up.
And say to all the world,- This is a man." 
No doubt he inherited many of the 
sterling qualities of character, but he also 
cultivated those nobler traits and attributes
of mind and heart, that lift a man above the 
grosser elements of human nature 
bringing him nearer to the divine. To 
know President Cannon intimately was a 
sort of education in itself, and one could not 
but feel his power for good when in his 
presence. Men of the world with whom he 
was associated in business matters and his
colleagues in the Congress of the United 
States all realized and felt the great intellec-
tual power and maganimmity of this 
wonderful man among men. He was one 
of the staunchest and truest friends, not only 
to woman, but to woman's cause in the 
broad and liberal sense of emancipation and 
equal rights and privileges.
But he has gone from us to enter into a 
higher and holier state of existence. We 
shall see his face no more, nor hear his 
clear, penetrating, harmonious voice in our 
great public congregations and assemblies.
Gone to join the innumerable company of 
the redeemed upon the other side and has 
doubtless met his loved ones there, the 
wife of his youth, his little children who 
were taken away so young, his sons grown 
to manhood, who passed away when life 
seemed bright and full of promise; his 
mother whose death at sea was such a grief

[Column 2]
to him in his childhood; his father who 
died at a much earlier age than himself,
while sojourning in St. Louis, ere he had 
reached Nauvoo. Beside these dear ones 
he has met, we believe, Brigham Young,
his uncle, John Taylor, and Wilford
Woodruff, all of whom he labored with in 
the Gospel, and Joseph the Prophet, whom 
he knew and revered as the great leader of 
this dispensation, and hosts of Saints and 
brethren whome he knew and who loved 
and reverenced him.
Much as we may long for his presence,
even his family who loved him most and 
best, they cannot call him back, he has 
gone to the city John the revelator saw in 
vision.
"To the city set with jasper, having twelve founda-
tions fair,
Flashing from their jeweled splendor, every color
soft and rare. 
Twelve in number are its gateways—numbered by
the seer of old—
Every gate a pearl most lustrous—and its streets 
are paved with gold
In the midst in dazzling whiteness, lightens the 
eternal throne; 
From it flows the living water—round it gleams an 
emerald zone. Luscious fruits and balmy odors, healing leaves 
and cooling shade,
Either side the Life-tree sheddeth, by sweet storms 
of music swayed.
O, thou grand and templed city, seen by John in 
vision bright,
Glory-flooded, needing neither, sun by day nor 
moon by night.
Filled forever and forever by the shining light of
Him
Who redeemed the world and sitteth throned be-
tween the seraphim. 
Through thy lovely gates the nations, of the world
 in triumph stream,
Chanting praise above all praises--love of love 
their holy theme. 
They no more shall thirst or hunger, they no more 
with heat shall faint; 
Christ for tears shall give them gladness, blissful 
rest for sore complaint.
"Blessed they who do His bidding," cries the angel,
day and night,
They shall find abundant entrance—they shall
walk with Him in white." 
George Quayle Cannon was born in 
Liverpool, England, January 11, 1827.
His parents, George and Ann Quayle Can-
non, were natives of Peel, on the Isle of 
Man, but his ancestors came originally from 
the borders of Scotland. George Q. was 
the eldest of seven children; his sisters, 
Mary Alice and Ann, and his brothers,
Angus M. and David A. also a younger 
sister, Leonora, and half-sister, Elizabeth,
by his father's second marriage, after his 
mother's death, all survive him. He leaves 
a large family of his own, wives, children 
and grandchildren, to mourn his loss—to
them irreparable. 
President Cannon's life from his youth to 
the close was a busy one, filled with work 
grand, noble and inspiring, no matter how 
hard the way seemed, he always saw the 
light shining in darkness, it was the bright-
ness of his own happy, buoyant spirit. 
In Nauvoo Brother Cannon worked in 
the printing office of the Times and Seasons 
and Nauvoo Neighbor, there he learned the 
printing business. He was in the house-
hold of Elder John Taylor, whose wife was 
his father's sister. Under his hands 
George Q. was ordained an Elder, Febru-
ary 5, 1845, and the same day ordained a 
seventy. He traveled with the Saints in 
Winter Quarters, leaving Nauvoo at the 
time of the exodus, and crossed the plains 
in 1847 with his Uncle Taylor's company,
arriving in the valley October 3, of that 
year. In 1849 he was sent on a mission

[Column 3]
to California and endured great priva tions 
and in 1850 he was called with nine others 
to take a mission to the Sandwich Islands, 
where they landed December 12, 1850; not 
meeting with much success, most of the 
Elders decided to leave, but Brother Can-
non declared he would stay and preach to 
the natives if he had to remain alone. Four 
of the missionaries stayed with him, he 
learned the language by diligence and 
study and the gift of God, in a marvelously 
short time and was soon able to preach the 
Gospel to the natives in their own tongue.
He translated the Book of Mormon into the 
Hawaiian language and with his brethren 
was so successful that when they left the 
islands in July, 1853, there were more than 
four thousand members in the Church in 
that country. He went on another mission 
to California, May, 1855, and during that 
mission published the Western Standard 
and also the Book of Mormon in Hawaiian,
which he had previously translated. He 
returned by advice of President Young at 
the time of Johnston's army reaching this 
city, January, 1858, and was appointed 
Adjutant General in the army of defence.
He was soon after sent to Fillmore with the 
printing press and material of the Deseret 
News, which he published there from April 
to September in 1858.
On his way home from Fillmore he was 
n tified to take a mission to the Eastern 
States for which, after his arrival, he got 
ready in three quarters of an hour. He 
was away nearly two years laboring among 
editors and prominent members of Congress 
to correct misrepresentations made against 
this people. He had charge of the branches 
of the Church in the East and acted as 
emigration agent in New York. On his re- 
turn he was ordained an Apostle, August 
26, 1860. Six weeks after he was sent to 
Europe to take charge of the Millenial Star 
and the emigration business at Liverpool,
where he landed December 21, 1860, and 
established a Church printing office. He 
remained there until May 14, 1862, when 
he was called to Washington, D. C., to 
meet Captain Hooper, who had been elected 
delegate to Congress. They endeavored to 
obtain the admission of the Territory into 
the Union as a state at that time. 
When Congress adjourned Brother Can-
non returned to England, arriving July 21,
1851, where he presided over the European
mission until 1864, visiting the branches of 
the Church in Scandinavia, Germany,
Switzerland and France. After his return 
he became the private secretary of Presi-
dent Young for three years. In the winter 
of 1864 and '65 he organized and taught 
a Sunday School in the 14th ward of this 
city. 
In January, 1866, he commenced the 
publication of the Juvenile Instructor, of 
which he continued to be the editor to the 
time of his demise. In the fall of 1867 he 
took charge of the Deseret News, which 
was then weekly and semi-weekly, but on 
November 21st of that year he issued the 
first number of the daily under the title of 
the Deseret Evening News, continuing for 
several years editor and publisher, though 
traveling much through the settlements 
with the first Presidency and Apostles.
In 1871 he was sent to Washington, D.
C., with President George A. Smith, where 
he spent his time defending the people of 
Utah from the attacks of their enemies.
After his return home he was elected a 
member of the Constitutional Convention


