[Vol3 | March 1916 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Genealogy and Art]

LESSON II.
Work and Business. Second Week in April.
LESSON III.
Genealogy and Art. Third Week in April.
GENEALOGY.
We took the liberty last month of transposing the March and April lesson in order to meet the needs of a number of stakes that desired this done. This month we again suggest that a beginner's class in genealogy taken from our last year's Guide Lessons and from the Genealogical Lesson Book shall be kept up in all the branches of the Society. Those who have these lessons well learned and who are in the advanced grade will be glad of the practical help given this year in our lesson work for the establishment of a firm foundation on which to carry forward their individual and Relief Society work. But there are and always will be beginners who need the first lessons. It has been suggested by the Board that every member of the Society shall spend at least one day in a temple, or arrange for someone to do this for her. This brings up at once the great question of excursions to a temple. Many ask us how this can be done. We give the following suggestions for the chairman of the Genealogical Committee, acting always under the approval of the Relief Society Presidency:
1. Consult the stake Presidency and obtain their full approval.
2. Invite the representative of the Genealogical Society to co-operate with the Relief Society.
3. Ascertain from the railroad agent what arrangements can be made for party rates.
4. Find out through the ward Genealogical Committee about how many persons will go. Note: A successful plan is to invite so many from each ward to go, making them feel that it is a privilege rather than a duty.
5. Write to the president of the temple in your district and ask how many persons your stake may present at the chosen day or week. Note: Always visit your own temple rather than wait for conference time and try to come to the Salt Lake temple. That temple has been so crowded of late that hundreds are turned away each week, and conference time is always a particularly crowded week.
6. Ascertain where your people can get lodgings for a day or so, if you travel long distances, by writing to the stake president or the temple president. Some rent rooms and carry their own provisions.
7. The Genealogical Committee should next discover how many names can be supplied from their own wards and stakes. Oftentimes some poor persons have long lists of names, but cannot afford to go to the temple, while it also happens that some who can afford to go have no names. The committee in this case, can act as an exchange bureau. Note: Unless the chairman of the committee is familiar with the mode of preparing baptismal and other temple sheets, it is better to simply insist on each person bringing a clearly written statement of record of the work he wishes to do and trust to the competent temple recorders to prepare the names and information after reaching the temple. It must always be bourne in mind that the chairman of any or all committees in the Relief Society work under the advice and supervision of the presidency of her Society. There must be order in the Church. A chairman is always in order in devising ways and means for the advancement and development of the work placed under her charge; but this must be done after consultation, and with the direct approval, of the presidency of the Society.
8. Our last suggestions are for those who live too far away from the temples to take an excursion, but who should not be deprived of the privilege and blessing derived from this glorious work. (a) Work in harmony with your stake presidency, and the representative of the Genealogical Society. (b) Send your missionaries to every member of the Society, to collect means and names. (c) After arranging all data and having means enough to cover the cost of substitute work, forward the whole to the president of the temple in your district.
9. Report all official work thus done on your ward records. (a) Always remember your donations and make them proportionate to your circumstances.
Now, sisters, go on with this glorious and necessary work, and let no woman say "there is no temple work for me to do." Here is a way for all to work and be blessed in the doing of it.
QUESTIONS.
1. What arrangements can you suggest to enable your ward to be represented this year at the temple?
2. Who is the representative of the Genealogical Society in your ward and stake?
3. Which is the better plan to call persons to go on an excursion, or to invite them?
4. Write a model letter to the temple president, asking permission to visit the temple in your stake in one month from date.
5. What can you say about preparing sheets for your temple work?
6. What should be the attitude of the chairman of the Genealogical Committee to the president of the Relief Society?
7. If your stake is too far away to go on a temple excursion what can you do as satisfactory substitute work?
8. What members of the Society would you excuse from actual or substituted temple work during the year 1916?