[Vol3 | March 1916 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Theology and Testimony - Women of the Bible Leah and Rachel]
Guide Lessons.
LESSON I.
Theology and Testimony. First Week, April, 1916.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE.
LEAH AND RACHEL.
(Read Genesis, Chapters 28-37.)
Leah and Rachel were sisters, Leah being the elder. They were daughters of Laban who was the brother of Rebecca, Jacob's mother. They were therefore cousins to Jacob. The sympathy of Bible readers, as a rule, goes out to Rachel, the "beautiful and well favoured," instead of to Leah, whose "eyes were tender." We see nothing of these women till the arrival of Jacob, who came to Haran partly to flee from the natural wrath of his brother Esau on the score of the transferred blessing, and partly to obtain for himself a wife from the "seed of Abraham." When Jacob reached the vicinity of Haran three flocks of sheep were waiting at the well to be watered. As Jacob was pressing his enquiries of the shepherds respecting his uncle Laban, who should come up but Rachel with her flock to be watered? "Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice and wept." Removing with his own strong hand the great stone over the mouth of the well, he gave drink to his cousin's sheep, while she ran to her father to tell him of Jacob's arrival. At the expiration of a month's stay with Laban, during which he probably worked for his uncle, Jacob proposed to serve seven years for the hand of Rachel. This was agreed upon. And the time seemed to the lover "but a few days, for the love he had to her," says the picturesque and suggestive narrative. When however "the days were fulfilled" and Jacob was to receive his bride after the prevailing custom, the crafty Laban brought into Jacob's room, not the young woman he had worked for all these years, but the elder sister Leah. Jacob, though, did not discover the deception till it was too late, and the father-in-law made the hypocritical explanation that "it is not so done in our place to give the younger before the firstborn. Fulfill the week of this one, and we will give the other also for the service which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years." Jacob did this, and in the end he won?or rather earned?Rachel. And he loved her "more than Leah."
It would seem that both women were sensitive on this point of their having been bargained off by the mercenary Laban, for years afterward they asked bitterly, "Are we not counted strangers? for he hath sold us."
It is interesting, in these days when it is unfashionable to have large families, to follow the race of these two women for the favour of their spouse through child-bearing. Leah bore Jacob four children in rapid succession, before Rachel had even one. Then she "left bearing." Rachel "envied her sister." She said to Jacob, "Give me children, or else I die!" Jacob's answer was as petulant as his favourite wife's, "Am I in the stead of God?" So Rachel gave him her maid Bilhah. Bilhah bore two sons to her mistress one after the other. Leah, not to be outdone by her sister, gave Jacob her handmaid Zilpah, who bore two sons. Leah bore two more sons in succession, and Rachel two. This interesting rivalry is stamped in the very names of the fruit of it. Reuben was given this name by Leah "because now my husband will love me;" Naphtali for the reason that Rachel had "mighty wrestlings" with her sister; Issachar means "hire," in evident allusion to the bargain over the mandrakes; and Zebulun signifies "dwell," referring to Leah's hope on the birth of her sixth son that "now my husband will dwell with me."
But even though Rachel had the favour of her husband and the Lord, it is clear from the narrative in the Bible that Leah also had more or less of the favour of the Lord. And not without good and sufficient reasons. Leah was blessed of the Lord from the beginning, in compensation, it would seem, for Jacob's "hatred" of her. "The Lord saw that Leah was hated, and he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren." Then again "from Leah sprang Judah, in whose line the promise to Abraham was to be fulfilled." It would be too much to say with some that "Leah was the one whom God intended for Jacob;" for Joseph, the "fruitful bough by a well," came from Rachel. During her early years of anxiety for children Rachel appears not to have been so mindful of the Lord as of her husband; whereas Leah, on the contrary, perforce gave less attention to her husband, although he, too, appears to have been much in her mind. But afterward Rachel somewhat modified her attitude in the matter, for the Lord "hearkened unto her," which would imply prayer on her part, and gave her a son, Joseph. Moreover, when Jacob was stealing away with his now numerous family and herds and flocks from his wily father-in-law, Rachel stole some idols of her father's which he valued and probably consulted as oracles instead of the Lord. This would appear to signify that her faith still clung to some extent to the old gods instead of to the living God of her husband Jacob.
QUESTIONS.
1. Who were Leah and Rachel?
2. Describe the character of Laban.
3. Tell of the first meeting between Jacob and Rachel.
4. Relate the deception Laban played upon Jacob. Was it justifiable from Laban's point of view? What do you think was his real motive in the matter?
5. Describe the character of Rachel.
6. Describe the character of Leah.
7. Which do you consider the most favoured? Why?
