[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | January | Issue: 9 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: Unknown]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	On November 12 Mrs. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton celebrated her 80th birthday at
her home in New York City.

	About $4000 has been raised for the
Boer women and children’s relief fund at a
great meeting in Philadelphia, which was
addressed by Rev. Mr. Van Broekhuizen, a
Boer clergyman.

	Mrs Martha Callanan has left $20,000
to the Booker Washington school at
Tuskegee, and $1,000 to Mrs. Sarah
Whitney in trust for the Woman's
Standard, the organ of the Iowa Woman’s
Suffrage Association.

	The Annual Convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association
will be held February 12th to the 18th, and
arrangements have been made for extension
of time on railroad certificates for those in
attendance at that meeting to cover the
Council meetings if desired.

	Hotel Fairfax (formerly known as
Willard’s) corner of 14th and F. Streets, is
offered for Council headquarters at most
reasonable rates, namely: rooms, $1.50 and
upwards. (This price is for rooms only.)
A good and reasonable restaurant is in the
hotel.

	Bulletin No. 4 will contain international
news, and it is hoped an important com-
munication from Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson,
Cabinet Head of the department of Art and
Literature, together with hints regarding
the triennial program.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

