[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | June | Issue: 24 | Title: MRS. BERTHA HONORE PALMER. | Author: Unknown]

MRS. BERTHA HONORE PALMER.

[At the Woman's Council, Washington, D. C.
	During the session in Chicago of the Board
of Lady Managers, of the World's Columbian
Commission, in Novemeber last, a telegram was
received from your Secretary inviting the

[Column 2]

﻿Board to send a delegate to this meeting of
the Women's Council. The Board did me the
honor to appoint me its representative, and I
came to listen and learn in this assembly of
Women of broad views and high ideals, and I
feel asured that the purposes of our Board will
be greatly furthered by our having been put
in sympathetic touch with the leaders of
thought in the various departments of woman's
work. I thank you heartily for the courtesy
so cordially extended and especially for being
allowed to interrupt for a few moments the
course of your interesting exercises to say a
few words about what the Board of Lady
Managers proposes to do at the Exposition.
A magnificent site has been assigned us and
$200,000 appropriated for the construction of
the Woman's Building, which will undoubtedly
be kept as a permanent memorial of woman's
work after the Fair is over, and in it all
woman's organizations and convocations will
find a home. This building is to be designed
by a woman, competitive sketches having al-
ready been advertised for from the women
architects of the country; three prizes of one
thousand, five hundred, and two hundred and
fifty dollars, respectively, being offered for the
best three designs. We hope by thus calling at-
tention to the work of women in architecture to
aid them to occupy atfield which naturally
belongs to them, that of domestic architecture,
for every man spoils many houses while he is
gradually being educated by the women for
whom he builds to know what is required in a
home.
	We shall try to provide in this building for
all possible wants of women, having in view a
Bureau of Information with interpreters
and guides for strangers,parlors and balconies
where ladies may rest and chat,an exhibitors,
club room, a model kitchen, where demonstra-
tion lessons may be given, we hope without
charge, a loan exhibit of Colonial, Old Dutch,
Scandinavian and other relics, recalling the
early history of our country and the various
nationalities from which we are sprung, and
also objects developed in the home by the
taste of woman. One wing of the building
will possibly be devoted to showing the Reform
and Charitable Organizations originated and
carried on by women, and the other to the
exhibit which will by sent by our Auxiliary
Associations formed through the instrumen-
tality of our foreign ministers in the countries
to which they are accredited, and bp means
of which we shall be enabled to indicate the
condition and attainments of women in every
part of the world. We shall also have an
Administration Room, Committee Rooms and
an Assembly Room for all lectures, congresses
and assemblies which may be desired by women.
In the main gallery there will probably be
special exhibits of the most brilliant achieve-
ments of woman's hand and brain; these will
doubtless be,in many cases, duplicates of objects
entered for competition in the general exhibit
under the regular classification, the duplicates
being placed in our building to emphasize the
fact that they are the work of women.
	In reading a list of the organizations
represented here, it occured to me that we
might obtain also a most unusual exhibit from
the Missionary Stations in the inaccessible and
unfrequented parts of the earth, and I beg
the ladies representing missionary societies to
realize that they may aid both themselves and
us by showing the life and work of women in
heathen countries. If a child-widow, for
instance, from a Zenanna could be brought
with her native dress and surroundings, and
the suffering and inhumanity to which she is
subjected shown, it would arouse such an
interest in the subject as years of talk would
not produce. The native weaving, pottery,
ornaments, costumes, household utensils, etc.,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


from these countries would also be of the
greatest interest and value.
	We are fortunate in thus being able to
present our plans and to ask nothing from the
ladies but their sympathic co-operation, and
an expression of their views as to how the
cause of woman may best be served; our build-
ing and its facilities being offered free of charge
to all the women of the country.
	For the first time in our history the mothers,
wives and daughters of America have been
permitted to assist in the management of an
important national enterprise, and have been
allowed the high but demoralizing privilege of
slipping their fingers into the national purse,
in order that they may prepare an object
lesson, showing the progress of women during
the century in which educational and other
privileges have been acorded her. We wish
to show that with the enlargment of her
opportunities, her sphere has extended and
broadened until she now works successfully in
almost every field heretofore given up ex-
clusively to man; that she can do many things
and do them all well, and that there are no
intellectual heights she cannot scale. Hers
are essentially the arts of peace and progress,
and her best work is shown in the reforms
she has had the courage and the ideality to
inaugurate against time-honored wrongs, both
legislative and social, and in the gradual
elevation of the standard of morality.
	We feel the necessity of showing this
beautiful influence and the advance which it
has caused, but are handicapped by the fact
that the most valuable part is spiritual, and
that it is difficult to show progress in abstract
things except by a mass of statistics, which be-
come significant, only when intelligently and
sympathetically read. Will you not aid us
with your experience and thought to show
woman's work as a beautiful whole, with its
animating spirit, and not as a mere mass of
material things? We wish the World's Fair
of 1893 to be memorable as a great exhibition,
greater than any which ever preceded it, but we
also wish its history to be a golden page in the
annals of woman's advancment.
	We urgently request, therefore, that each
organization represented here appoint a com-
mittee of five of its most able women to
consider the work we are trying to do for
our sex at the Fair, and to present to us at an
early date their suggestions and advice
as to how we may accomplish the great end
we have in view, and to inform us in what
manner their associations will be able to co-
operate with our Board in its work, and we
ask that they send their suggestions, applica-
tions for space, etc., to our headquarters in
Chicago, where they will be gladly received
and most carefully considered and acted
upon.
	The Board of Lady Managers, in recipro-
cation of the hospitatlity and fraternal feeling
shown it, has great pleasure in asking, that
when the members of this distinguished body
and the many associations here represented
visit the coming Exposition, as of course
they will, they at once make themselves known
to the representatives of our Board, who will
be glad to receive and welcome them in the
Woman's Building, where every convenience
and facility for their comfort will be provided.
The Board also most cordially and pressingly
invites this Council to hold its International
meeting in Chicago at the time of the
Columbian Exposition, when it will place at
the service of the ladies the assembly room in the
Woman's Building, and should that not prove
large enough, through our Congress Auxiliary,
the magnificent Auditorium can be secured
for the meeting of the International Council
of Women.


