[Vol35 | May 1948 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Editorial | Title: A Blessing for Sharp]

35 EDITORIAL MAY 1948 A Blessing for Women AS the season arrives for the discontinuance of weekly Relief Society meetings, there comes to a faithful member a feeling of release from the more arduous and exacting duties of the past eight months, and at the same time a deep sense of satisfaction for the benefit she has personally received and the good which has come to others as the result of her and her sister's work in Relief Society. It is a feeling separate and apart from the contemplation of participation in any other activity offered by women's groups. One of the benefits to mothers which comes from Relief Society was voiced by a brother in a Relief Society meeting. He was praising the work of the society as a whole and then testified of the blessings which had come into his own home through the activity of his wife in Relief Society. He related that when their children were young it was necessary 10r him to be absent from the home a great deal. His wife spent so much time shut within their own walls with the responsibility of the children and the incessant caring for their needs, that finally matters came to such a crisis that their very married life was at stake. It was at this juncture that a Relief Society was formed in their vicinity and his wife became a member.
Almost at once he found that her attitude had changed. Her outlook became broadened and she discovered that other women were going Page 310 through the same experiences as she. As her interests increased she found time to take thought for her own advancement and improvement. In addition to the self-development which came to her through studying the lessons, she experienced a feeling of satisfaction and fulfillment through the good she did to others as offered in Relief Society work. He ended his talk, in substance, with these words, ~"T have always felt that our married happiness was saved by Relief Society."
This testimony of one of the worths of Relief Society to women finds echo in the hearts of thousands of members-and in the hearts of their husbands. The spirit of the gospel which permeates Relief Society meetings carries to each member, according to her desire and faithfulness  understanding,  enlightenment, and a truer evaluation of her own problems with the wish to solve them in all righteousness. A woman who allows trivial pleasures or worldly interests to interfere with her attendance and participation in Relief Society is partaking of the spirit of the foolish virgins who did not keep their lamps trimmed and burning. Relief Society was instituted by the Prophet Joseph Smith under the inspiration of the Lord. He knows the needs of his daughters and blessed them with the Relief Society. M. CSS.