[Vol35 | May 1948 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Summons Marion Garibaldi]

> SUMMONS Marion Garibaldi Twig-colored bird, Stir the gray bough! Infinite purpose Everywhere, now! Rainbows and flowers Out of the murk  Mystery, power, _ In springtime lurk. Lily and weed Their work must do; Courage, comrade, Joy summons you! Ie FATHER IN HEAVEN, | THANK THEE Arabella Hoke Father in heaven, I thank thee tonight For sleep and for rest And for the stars so bright; For angels to protect me Till morning light, Father in heaven, I thank thee. Father in heaven, I thank thee today For health and for strength To go on my way; For food and for raiment And the wind that blows free, Father in heaven, I thank thee. Relief Society Music or se) Day Little Mother of Mine _.. 20c M-O-T-H-E-R 20c Mothers Lullaby 15c Mother O'Mine 20c My Mom 15c Song of Mary (Asper) 15c Songs My Mother Taught Me _____. 20c That Wonderful Mother of Mine __. 15c Those Songs My Mother Used to Sing 15c Any of above sent postpaid upon receipt of price or may be charged and paid for later. We pay postage on all sheet music and books.
FIRST OF ALL  RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH |  d "Sb 6 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH 1) Page 359
For My Mother Mother Machree 15c 5c From Near and Sar Camilla Eyring Kimball, author of our feature "Let Every Day Be Mother's Day," was born in Colonia Juarez, Mexico. She attended B. Y. U. And U. S. A. C., and taught home economics at Millard Academy and Gila Academy. She is the wife of Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Quorum of the Twelve, and they have three sons and one daughter; the eldest son, with his wife and three little daughters, is studying at Oxford University in England; the daughter, with her husband and baby girl, lives in Salt Lake City; the second son is a missionary in New England; the youngest son is a student at the University of Utah. It might interest you to know that your beautiful temple in Hawaii is shown many times on our projection screen from color photographs, which my husband took there on his way home from the islands of the Pacific, Our friends always gasp with delight at one taken of the grounds, a blue pool surrounded by trees. Although my work is unknown to you, your work is quite familiar to me because of those pictures. Erma Myers Arthur, Vallejo, California. I should like to thank you for the very fine things you are giving us in the Magazine. Recently my little daughter tore her plastic covered umbrella beyond repair. We read and followed the article by Mrs. Perschon (January 1948) on how to cover an old umbrella frame to our mutual benefit. Now she has a new umbrella; I have a new experience and knowledge. Happy and proud to be a contributor to such a magazine as our Relief Society Magazine. May you find great joy in your work and inspired help for every problem  "at Jones Gabbott, Salt Lake City, Utah. Our dear author, what a delightful story "Pankapaw," by Deone Sutherland, (March 1948). Surely you make the Page 360 I am. commonplace sublime. I think of Bret Hart making "'Miggles" a soulful story through his love for the plain and unnoticed, Write some more, please. Cloe B. Rogers, Ogden, Utah. Incidentally, I surely enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. I read it and pass it on.
Karl Spafford, New England Mission. Your very fine magazine has an important place in our home. I find my mother and my daughter enjoy it as I do. Success to you in your work is the wish of all Relief Society members everywhere. Helen S. Hughes, Farmington, Utah. Charlotte Ann Dunn Lindsay, ninetytwo, of Powell, Wyoming, still enjoys doing beautiful handwork. She knits mittens and bootees for her grandchildren and great-grandchildren, crochets, quilts, and makes colorful, attractive rugs. Parents of eleven children, Charlotte and her husband David E. Lindsay pioneered Big Horn Basin. For more than forty years, Sister Lindsay has served as a worker in Relief Society.