[Vol35 | May 1948 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: From Near and Far]
vist  your  nearest  Sears  Store.

Qjrom    I  Lear  and  (yc ar 
(Address  comments  for  "From  Near  and  Far"  to  Relief  Society  Magazine,  28  Bishop's 
Bldg.,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah) 
When  you  read  a  story,  do  you 
ever  wonder  what  the  author  is  hke? 
Writers  are  interesting  people,  and 
we  thought  you  might  hke  to  know 
something  about  the  women  whose 
stories  appear  in  this  issue. 
DOROTHY    CLAPP  ROBINSON   of 
Boise,  Idaho,  who  wrote  'The  Gift," 
writes:  "There  are  four  sets  of  twins  in 
my  immediate  family.  My  father  was  a 
twin,  I  am  a  twin,  I  have  twins,  and  one 
of  my  twins  has  twins.  I  have  a  son  on 
a  mission  in  Finland,  and  a  daughter  with 
her  husband  and  two  children  in  Germany. 
Three  other  daughters  live  in  three  dif- 
ferent states  in  the  United  States  .... 
Some  of  my  Danish  forebears  had  a  yen 
to  write  and  I  inherited  it." 
"A  New  Stove  For  Mother"  was  writ- 
ten by  NORMA  WRATHALL  of  Grants- 
ville,  Utah,  who  is  the  mother  of  two  boys 
and  two  girls.  In  her  letter,  she  re- 
calls memories  of  childhood  days: 
"When  I  was  a  child,  we  attended  the 
Fourth  and  Twenty-Fourth  of  July  cele- 
brations at  the  old  pavilion  at  the  east  end 
of  town.  It  was  open  air,  with  a  wide, 
sloping  roof,  wood  floor,  and  just  a  railing 
around  the  sides.  My  father  had  a  surrey, 
a  real  old  surrey  with  fringe  around  the 
top,  and  all  of  us  rode  to  the  celebrations 
in  it.  There  we  would  go,  the  little  ones 
perched  on  someone's  knee,  the  dust  from 
the  streets  billowing  up  at  times — but 
who  cared  for  a  little  dust?  The  pavilion 
would  be  draped  with  red,  white,  and  blue 
bunting.  There  would  be  a  flag  back  of 
the  speakers'  stand." 
MARGERY  S.  STEWART,  Salt  Lake 
City,  who  wrote  "Bright  April,"  con- 
tributes some  unique  thoughts:  "Would 
you  like  to  know  that  I  came  of  a  large 
family?  Nine  children,  to  be  exact,  and 
that  a  large  family  is  absolute  guarantee 
against  boredom  all  your  life  long,  because 
after  you  have  waded  past  childish  scraps, 
and  home  dramatics,  and  your  sisters  wear- 
Page  286 
ing  your  clothes,  you  go  into  the  larger 
field  of  what  happens  to  everybody  when 
they  grow  up,  and  that  is  the  most  thrill- 
ing thing  of  all. 
In  response  to  our  inquiry,  HAZEL 
KING  TODD,  of  Duchesne,  Utah,  auth- 
or of  "Sweeter  Than  Any  Story,"  wrote: 
"I  think  most  of  my  life  I  have  never 
found  quite  enough  time  to  do  all  of  the 
things  I  wanted  to.  Perhaps  that  is  why 
it  was  such  a  nice  thing  to  be  sent  a  pair 
of  twins  (a  girl  and  a  boy).  Anyway,  I 
learned  what  it  was  to  be  really  busy.  But 
they  are  two  and  a  half  now,  and  I 
always  think  how  unfortunate  people  are 
who  have  only  one,  even  though  it  seems 
they  can  think  of  three  times  as  much 
mischief  as  one.  I  also  have  three  other 
children  and  a  busy  bishop  husband. 
Are  men  barred  from  reading  The  Ke- 
liei  Society  Magazine?  Well  I  read 
"Women  and  Their  Apparel"  (Editorial 
in  February  issue),  and  I  think  it  is  fine. — 
M.  D.  Beauregard,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Thank  you  most  heartily  and  cordially 
for  the  lovely  tribute  and  birthday  wishes 
published  in  the  February  issue.  It  was  so 
generous  of  you  and  the  Magazine  to  thus 
remember  me  and  I  appreciate  it  most  sin- 
cerely. I  am  so  proud  of  the  Magazine. 
It  seems  to  get  better  all  the  time.  And 
it  is  such  a  blessing  to  the  women  of  the 
organization  and  to  the  Church  as  a 
whole.  You  are  doing  excellent  work  as 
editors.  May  the  choicest  blessings  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  ever  be  with  you,  is  my 
earnest  prayer.  Sincerely  and  affectionate- 
ly— Amy  Brown  Lyman,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah. 
Like  many  other  young  mothers,  I  turn 
eagerly  to  ideas  that  will  help  me  as  a 
homemaker.  I  have  appreciated  the  many 
suggestions  contained  in  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  that  help  in  the  physical  realm 
of  homemaking,  just  as  I  turn  to  the 
Magazine  for  inspiring  spiritual  guidance 
and  direction — Ilean  H.  Poulson,  Du- 
chesne, Utah.