[Vol35 | May 1948 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Treasures Gabbott]

TREASURES Mabel Jones Gabbott She who has roused at night to heed the cries Of wakeful children, coaxing sleep-filled eyes To open that she may attend their need, Though grumbling silently, is rich indeed. Relief Society Building REPORTS are constantly reaching the general board telling of the active part being taken by the brethren throughout the Church in > supporting and encouraging the sisters in collecting their building fund quotas. For over one hundred years the sisters of the Church have labored to help erect Church buildings of all kinds which have been enjoyed by their sisters and their children and helped to build up the Church. Now the sisters are asking and receiving the support of the brethren in erecting a building in which the sisters may do the work asked of them by the brethren. As they work together in any righteous cause in the Church, the results are certain. An interesting incident is related in one ward.
Near the conclusion of the March 7 program "Building For Eternity," one brother arose in the meeting and moved that the quota for that ward be finished that evening.
This was seconded by a boy of eight and another brother and before the sisters left the building that evening, their quota was filled. A wonderful spirit of love and sacrifice on the part of the sisters had preceded that meeting. 'They had advertised throughout the stake that they would clean, scrub, baby tend, or cater for anyone in order to help earn the money and had raised a great part of the quota previous to the March 7 meeting.
Other examples of the activities of the brethren are quoted below: A member of our bishopric remembered his departed mother who had been a faithful Relief Society worker. We were short a few partners for some of the districts, so the bishop went with one teacher and Brother................with another. On the date that was designated, we met as a group of visiting teachers with our bishopric and our stake Relief Society president. At the meeting our bishop told us of the benefits that would be derived as a result of this building, and of the privilege that had come to us as Relief Society sisters to be asked to help.
Many brethren are giving memorial gifts to honor their mothers and wives, both to support the work so dear to their loved ones, and to know that the names of their wives and mothers will be preserved in the cornerstone and the records of the general board. The work of gathering the money is rolling on, gaining momentum as the months pass. Page 295 
  MAY 1948 EMIGRATION STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) COMPLETES BUILDING QUOTA, March 17, 1948
First row, left to right: Emmeline B. Nebeker, former member Relief Society general board; Ruth May Fox, former president, M. I. A.; Winniefred S. Manwaring, standing, President, Emigration Stake Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, standing, General President of Relief Society; Florence G. Smith, seated, member, general board; Louise W. Madsen, member, general board and former president, Emigration Stake Relief Society; Lillie C. Adams, member, general board and former president, Emigration Stake Relief Society. Second row, left to right: Mary Jordan, Leah Cheever, Florence Smith, Ethel Goates, Mery] Cardall, Sarah Barrett, Vervene Pingree, and Effie Yates, members, Emigration Stake Relief Society Board; President Amy Brown Lyman; Presidents Elsa Carlson, (University Ward); Cary Linford, (Twelfth Ward); Myra Peterson, (Eleventh Ward.) Third row, left to right: Sarah Jarrell and Berta Christensen, members, Emigration Stake Relief Society Board; ward presidents: Margaret Richards (Stadium Village); Mina S. Wignall (East Twenty-seventh); Veda Rockwood (Twenty-seventh); Elva Broadhead (Twenty-first); Veda Whitehead, Secretary (North Twenty-first); Presidents Emma Brooksby (Thirteenth) and Mary Rasmussen (Eleventh). Jetta Johnson, President, North Twenty-First Ward, was not present when the photograph was taken. Emigration Stake Relief Society commemorated the 106th birthday of Relief Society with an outstanding, successful social. Over 400 attended. The theme, "A Light Upon a Hill," symbolized the growth of the society and its mission, and was climaxed by the presentation of the building fund quota. An unusually beautiful setting and music by the Singing Mothers contributed to the enjoyment of the occasion.
STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS South Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) San Diego Stake (California) Wells Stake (Utah) Teton Stake (Idaho and Wyoming) Granite Stake (Utah) North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Emigration Stake (Utah) Mesa Stake (Arizona) Rexburg Stake (Idaho) NEVADA Stake (Nevada and Utah) Utah Stake (Utah)  Seattle Stake (Washington) South Los Angeles Stake (Calif.) MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS Northern California Mission Eastern States Mission GRANITE STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) PRESENTS CHECK FOR BUILDING FUND, March 17, 1948
Stake President Ida May Dean presents check to Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, of the General Presidency, Chairman, Relief Society Building Fund Committee. In the background are ward Relief Society presidents Bessie Howell, Ruth Durbin, Sentella Pace, Estana Wilson, Carolyn Little, and ThELMA Brimley. Carl W. Buehner, President, Granite Stake, stands at the back, left.
WARDS AND B ES AND MISSIONS WHICH 100% BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the April Magazine and prior to April 13, 1948)  Afton Ward, Star Valley Stake (Wyoming) Alamo Ward, Uvada Stake (Nevada) Albany Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Alma Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona) Altoona Branch, Eastern States Mission  (Pennsylvania) Alturas Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Areata Branch, Northern California Mission (Calfornia) Archer Ward, Rexburg Stake (Idaho) Ashland Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon) Ash ton Ward, Yellowstone Stake (Idaho) Auburn Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Auburn Ward, Star Valley Stake (Wyoming) Avenal Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Baggs Branch, Western States Mission (Wyoming) Bellingham Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington) Belvedere Ward, Pasadena Stake (Cahfornia) Binghampton Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Blackwell Branch, Central States Mission (Oklahoma) Bluewater Branch, Western States Mission (New Mexico) Bonanza Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon) Bothwell Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah) Bozeman Branch, Northwestern States Mission (Montana) Bradford Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Buffalo Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Bynum Branch, Northwestern States Mission (Montana) Calientc Ward, Uvada Stake (Nevada) Campus Ward, East Provo Stake (Utah) Canandaigua Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Elwood Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah) Enterprise Ward, Uvada Stake (Utah) Ene Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Eureka Branch, California Mission (California) Everett Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington ) Fairfield Branch, Lehi Stake (Utah) Fairmont Branch, East Central States Mission (West Virginia) Ferron Ward, Emery Stake (Utah) Fidelity Ward, East Rigby Stake (Idaho) Firestone Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) Freedom Ward, Star Valley Stake (Wyoming) Fruitvale Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho) Garland First Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah) Gilbert Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona) Glendale Ward, Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Gloversville Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Grant Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) Grants Pass Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon) Greenwich Ward, Sevier Stake (Utah) Hagerman Ward, Blaine Stake (Idaho) Hermiston Branch, Northwestern States Mission (Oregon) Herriman Ward, West Jordan Stake (Utah) Hiko Branch, Uvada Stake (Nevada) Huntington Branch, East Central States Mission (West Virginia) Huntington Branch, Weiser Stake (Oregon) Huntington Park Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) Hydesville Branch, Northern California Mission (California ) Tona Ward, Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Ione Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Ithaca Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Jamestown Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Jessup Branch, Southern States Mission (Georgia) Junction City Branch, Central States Mission (Kansas) Kimberly Ward, Nevada Stake (Nevada) King City Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Kingston Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York) Klamath Falls Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon) Labelle Ward, East Rigby Stake (Idaho) Lakeview Branch, Northem California Mission (Oregon) Lamison Branch, Southern States Mission (Alabama)