[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 828 | General Feature | Notes to the Field: Booklet "For the Strength of Youth" Available | ]
[Notes to the Field: Booklet "For the Strength of Youth" Available]

'One More Story"' Mabel Jones Gabbott How many times have I heard these words: "One more story... Just one, please...?"' The hour is late; the lights are low; Their eyes are heavy, and still they tease, "One more story....'"' And how many times Have I let the dishes and ironing wait, While I led their thoughts adventuring Down thunderous plains, or through fancy's gate? How many times in years to come Will we remember poignantly, The intimate half-dark, the urgent words, And the heroes riding brave and free? 828 @ Annie's polishing cloth was stopped in mid-air as her hand paused in its work. She saw the first star prick the sky like a small, perfectly cut diamond. She saw it glisten in its appointed place and _ whispered, "Star light, star bright, first star I've seen tonight. I wish I may, I wish I might have the wish I wish tonight," as she had done. For as long as she could remember. She hesitated before she made her wish. There wasn't much she could wish for. She had so much. This apartment house—not large —on which she made some money, and had company in the building; she had her job at the music store half a day; health; friends, food, and warmth. What more could she ask? She had wished for a companion, someone to love her. But, she supposed she was too old for that now. Love had missed her. She was fifty. These other things must take its place. The only man she had ever cared for had been killed in an automobile accident. Her years Christie Lund Coles had been spent taking care of "Mama," until she died, and playing the piano in church, and in the piano store. Her main interest now was in her tenants. They were nice people. Fine. Barbara, the tall, dark-eyed girl from California going to school, too shy to make many friends though she was a delight when one knew her. Charlie Smoot, a bachelor, on the quiet side, too, though tall and good-looking; Mrs. Ames, a divorcee, and her five-year-old son: Grandma Lunt who tended the little boy while his mother worked; and Mr. And Mrs. Purdee who both worked and always seemed to have no problems. She loved them all. They were her family. She found herself wishing, '"'Let everyone in the apartment have the merriest Christmas ever." Not that that could come quite true, because the merriest was when you were a child and everything was touched with wonder. Youth was an eternal Christmas, untouched as the snow which was beginning to fall softly outside.

829 - I'm really glad to She meet you, Mr. Hall, Barbara has i N SO much f Of you." hy, it's nothing. I Wish I or years—and could do more," now she laid th down She Wished Wiped her hands 69 4 clean Polgez Charlie S ishing Tag, and ran ( across the keys, Oo know €ach o 00n the Wel]. Loved Chords 1 Smiled, "You f ar of ¢ ast, oh, much, e's really Bethlehem Star; Suiding ys On Dad." Tom heaven afar," Nnie laughed at her Serious She was brought back to reality by a qy; ly, asking, "Would ea OU, Perhaps be kind €nough to quick rap at the door. Play jt again. I I And Sing it? Wee" ste Called, rising, thinkWe Just got the end." ing jt Would be the delivery Oy. "Tf you']] Sing With me." €t, when she Teached the door "Well no All right. But She was Surprised to see Barbara reme ber, you asked for it," Standing there, Ider Man, She sat down again and began Staying, handsome, was _ beside t play. His Surprising tenor her. Started On the first notes, and "This is my father," the gir] sh JOined jn arbar. Ummed Said swift y, "I wanted him to An ther knock t the Oor star. Meet you He was about to Posttled and gs Opped them, She pone the meeting tj]] h heard Shrugged, "I'm Sorry." you singing." This time, it Was the Package. "Not much singing, I'm afraid But the moment had been MY mind Was a long Way off." Spoiled Said, "Oh, we real] €n, she add ad, quickly, "But, mustn't tain you. 830 sometime before I go back." "You mean, you're staying? You didn't come to take Barbara home for Christmas?" "Oh, no,"' Barbara assured her, "TI invited him up here. After all, I have my own apartment. I have a little tree. But I may need some help with my turkey, Christmas day." idea hit her, SuUpDDENLY,. An "You're celebrating Christmas: day? I'm fixing dinner tomorrow night. Christmas Eve is the Danish custom. Why don't you both come down here and eat? Only Grandma Lunt is coming. We can't possibly handle an entire goose." "She's a darling," Barbara said, and her father questioned, "Goose? Why, I haven't had one since we used to shoot our own. But it's an intrusion Christmas Eve and all." "If I had a family it would be different,' Annie told him frankly, "but I'm quite alone. It would really be a favor. And," she added, "then we could sing to our heart's content." "Sold," he agreed, "if Barbara's willing." "Oh, I am. That is, if you'll help me with the turkey and eat with us Christmas day." So the two of them left, and she returned to polishing the piano which reflected the lights on the small tree which she had just turned on. She did not pull her drapes, for it was not too dark, and she loved seeing the snow falling and _ the _ trees in other windows down _ the street. She hoped someone derived a bit of pleasure from hers. She was reassured in that hope upstairs, and. His father.