[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 838 | The Home | Fruit Cakes for Christmas | Mabel Harmer]
837 M ath = Photo Courtesy American Institute of Baking For family enjoyment, for greeting guests at Christmas time, or for presenting as gifts, fruit cakes are a delicious and welcome treat for the holiday season. They may be made as early as six weeks before the time of serving, or as near to the occasion as may be convenient. They can be baked in pans of various sizes and shapes, but a lining of wax paper in the pans will help to keep the cakes from scorching and will preserve the moisture content. Low temperatures are necessary for baking fruit cakes, and the length of time will depend upon the moisture content of the cake and the size and shape of the pan used (a shorter length of time being necessary for a fairly thin cake to bake and a longer time for a thick cake). Many homemakers prefer to use a deep pan or a round tube pan. For gift cakes a round tin can is convenient in size and shape. If fruit cakes are to be. Stored for longer than a few days, they should be carefully wrapped in foil and stored in a cool place. Some homemakers first wrap the cake, as soon as it has been cooled, in a cloth dipped in cider or fruit juice, and then use a foil wrapping. The cake is then placed in the refrigerator so that it will not mold. Many recipes for fruit cakes can easily be changed by substituting other kinds of candied fruits and nuts than those listed in the recipe, but the measurements should be approximately the same. B38 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT DARK FRUIT CAKE 3 c. Brown sugar 1 Ib. White raisins 1 c. Butter 1 Ib. Dark raisins 4 eggs, beaten 14, Ib. Citron 344 c. Flour 1 Ib. Dates 1 tsp. Soda 1 c. Chunk pineapple 1 tsp. Salt 14, c. Maraschino cherries 1 tbsp. Cinnamon 2 c. Nuts 1 c. Buttermilk Cream butter and sugar, add eggs. Sift dry ingredients and add to first mixture with buttermilk. Dredge fruit and nuts with flour and add. Bake 1% hrs. At 300°. Yield 7 lbs. YULE CAKE 1144 c. Whole Brazil nuts 14 c. Seedless raisins 114 c. Walnut halves 34, c. Sifted flour 1 c. Dates 34, c. Sugar 1 c. Chopped candied orange peel 14, tsp. Baking powder 14 c. Red maraschino cherries 14 tsp. Salt drained: 3 eggs 14, c. Green maraschino cherries 1 tsp. Vanilla drained Place nuts and fruit in a large bowl.