[Vol12 | February 1925 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Like Crumbled Rose Petals Ruth Moench Bell]

Like Crumbled Rose Petals By Ruth Moench Bell
Constance Winburn had on her rose-colored, batiste dressing gown. Edythe, her daughter, would have called it a negligee. Martha, her sister, who helped her into it, called it a wrapper. Harold, her grandson, who bought it for her, called it a robe. The dressing gown was soft and clinging and suited charmingly with Constance Winburn's fluffy, white hair and rose-leaf complexion. She knew that the white dimity apron was not just the right thing to go with a dressing gown. She had Martha tie it on her because the apron was trimmed with lace and went well with her cap and also because Edythe liked to find) her in light colors and very dainty. Edythe was coming that afternoon.
Constance took out her powder puff, after Martha had gone out. She went over her face very lightly. There must be no shine. Edythe did not like to see her face unpowdered. Constance wished that her hands were not so crippled with rheumatism. She was sure she could have made her nails more exquisite than Martha had done with the scissors. She would have liked to manicure her nails as she had seen them done in shops.
Constance opened the door of her room. "I think I'll lie down till Edythe comes," she called softly to Martha. "Edythe likes to find me rested.".
"All right, Constance,' Martha responded.
"You 'don't mind me going," Constance enquired, somewhat anxiously. "You don't mind my going, Martha, do you?"
"Not if she asks you," was on the point of Martha's tongue to say. Martha caught back the sharp, ugly thought, caught it back by the nape of the neck before it crossed the threshold of her lips. Instead, Martha sent forward very pleasantly, her angel child, as it were. "Not at all, Grandma dear, we shall miss you, of course. But we have so many interests. We can understand how lonely you must be with us."
The little speech fluttered out like a cherub in dotted swiss and blue bows. Made its little talk, then courtesied, as it were, and bowed itself off. All the while Martha held the ugly speech in leash, threatening it with her eye till the fair one had finished and made its exit.
"We are not going to wound my poor, dear sister,' Martha told the ugly one.
Martha went in and laid a soft, light-colored shawl over the failing form of her sister. Then she came back to have it out
LIKE CRUMBLED ROSE PETALS 69
with the ugly thought, which, no doubt, was making faces at that very minute behind the door.
"You know perfectly well, Ugly Thought," Martha cried sharply without so much as opening her lips. "You know perfectly well that Edythe (burr—she spat out the word, Edythe) that Edythe (spew) adores her mother. (The Ugly Thought stuck out its tongue at Martha.) Yes, she does! Adores her! (Liar! Liar! Chirruped the Ugly Thought.) Well, she does, just the same. Doesn't she send her flowers and—and—er—wires? Doesn't she write her the most heavenly scented letters all filled with fine words? (The Ugly Thought turned its back rudely. Its shoulders were shaking with mirth, unseemly. Martha stamped her foot at it.) Get back into the corner," she commanded. "She does, and you know she does. Hasn't she been promising for a year or more—promising. You know as well as I do—for you've seen 'Grandma'—(It was impossible to imitate the spicy flavor Martha managed to sprinkle on the term 'Grandma' whenever she used it toward her sister, probably an attempt to copy the sacharine sweetness that Edythe injected into the term.) 'Not for mine," Martha would vociferate, after such times. ''Not for mine. I'm glad I'm not a grandma. And I'll keep my identity as Martha to the end. If you please, to the end. And I'll call my sister Constance till the last hour. 'Grandma!' Humph, seems like when folks get ready to slip their own onto the siding and forget 'em they most generally give 'em some title like that that lumps them all into a mass. Now there is some individuality to the name Martha or Constance, but 'Grandma' covers a whole multitude of forlorn souls, side-tracked and forgotten."
The Ugly Thought chuckled to remind Martha that it was still there.
"Yes, I know you are there,"' Martha came back. "As I was saying you have seen Constance get ready twenty times to go to Edythe's." (The Ugly Thought chortled. It had won its way through. Nothing could have been funnier nor uglier than Martha's final snarling Edythe.) -
"I'll bet she doesn't come, bet you she doesn't come," chimed the Ugly Thought impudently.
"She will come, she will come," Martha coaxed the Favorite Thought into unconvincing! Insistence.
Even as she spoke, Edythe's smart touring car came up to the gate. There were gates at Martha's place, twenty miles out of town, "so absurd to be out so far, you know." Edythe languished.
"Glad you've come, Edythe," Martha sent the Ugly Thought back into the corner with an I-told-you-so shove. "Edythe is here now, do you see?"
"Yes, but she won't take her mother home with her," the Ugly Thought persisted hatefully.,


"She will, she will." Martha persisted.
"How is mother?' Edythe drawled languidly. "I brought her some violets and daffodils."
"What did I tell you?" croaked the Ugly One. "Why shouldn’t she bring violets and daffodils?' Martha rebuked. Just the same, Martha tiptoed over to Constance' door to make sure it. Was closed., Would she bring flowers for her mother to carry all the way back, when there will be so much to take—would be, I should say," the Ugly Thought taunted. "Oh, keep still." Edythe sank into a chair. "I suppose mother is taking a nap." "She is lying down waiting for you to come. She is all ready to go." "Oh, that is really too bad. You see we are expecting Harold's baby almost any minute. And of course the extra work and all—"  Martha knew without looking. The Ugly Thought was chuckling wickedly: "What did I tell you?" "We are losing so much rest as it is. And I suppose Grandma still has to be up in the night." "Lie a little,' the Ugly One suggested. "Insist that. She never has you up in the night any more." Martha listened attentively, alert for a sound from Constance' room. Her sister must not hear and be wounded again. Edythe's clear, cultivated, flute-like tones carried like a cathedral chime. Martha prayed fervently that they would not penetrate through the walls and into the gentle onc's consciousness. "And then there is the additional sewing," Edythe went on. "I really could not allow Grandma to go around as she does here. She must have soft, lace-trimmed negligees in delicate colors— and—and we've barely got through sewing for the new baby. I wouldn't want Harold's wife to see Grandma looking any way save her best. Nor Marjorie's beau for that matter. One must keep up the family prestige, you know." Martha took time to look the Ugly Thought squarely in the eye. She couldn't endure to have it jigging up and down before her triumphantly any longer. 'You've won," she admitted. "You've won. Now keep still and get out of the way, will you." "And then Grandma needs special meals. All that tiresome milk and cream menu and those absurd fruits and vegetables. My family go in so for meats and pastries." Edythe Barnes took off her gloves nervously. "She is talking her conscience to sleep," the Ugly Thought smirked. Martha gave it a look that should have subdued it. The Ugly One only grinned, 
 self in check. When she could trust herself to speak again Martha grew reminiscent. "Constance was always the delicate sister," she cried, "sort of romantic and fond of nice things. We thought of her as a bit finer than the rest of us. We all got in the way of deferring to her. She was the aristocrat of the family and the sweetest and most unselfish. We were willing to regulate the house according to Constance' needs." "I suppose she still hurries you all to bed at ten, and drags you out at seven," Edythe murmured, ' Martha's dignity and indignity came up. She almost invited the Ugly Thought out to pull faces or say disagreeable things. "I suppose I would have to come flying home from club to see that the evening meal was to her liking. Poor Auntie, how patient you have been." Martha tiptoed to her sister's room again. Surely Constance could not still be sleeping. Most certainly Martha would have retorted angrily, had not' her first thought been for the invalid sister. "She must not hear, she must not hear,' Martha kept repeating to herself. "Don't bother to waken grandma," Edythe drew on her gloves again. "I'll go out and get the flowers I brought for her. I left them in the car." Martha opened Constance' door very softly. Did she imagine it, she wondered, or was there a hasty settling down on the part of her sister, as if she had been fistening and now feigned sleep? Martha drew nearer and peered anxiously over Constance' shoulder. Was there a tear undried on Constance' cheek? Maybe not. It might have been there because of weak eyes, slipping out as the gentle one slept. "Drives," Martha murmured to herself. "Drives! All her gentle life she has won because she has never insisted, never demanded for herself and always was so thoughtful of others." "Edythe has come, dear," Martha spoke softly. Every one spoke softly somehow to Constance. "She brought you some flowers, violets and daffodils." "How lovely of her," Constance breathed, as if a flower had opened its petals. "A taste of Spring. In the Spring one does long so for fresh, cool flowers and—trips. And little adventures." The Ugly Thought jogged Martha's elbow. "Tell her at once," it urged. "Don't let her be going on expecting trips and adventures when she is to stay right here still. Maybe she didn't hear after all. And then again she is probably pretending so you won't suspect and feel that she has been hurt. But tell her anyhow, can't you?" 
 ing more pinched and wan. No doubt, partly because she was trying to suppress her pain. Constance turned away. "Do you notice I keep my room picked up better? I think it helps me to move about more and try to get hold of things. I think I may recover the use of my fingers if I keep up the attempt." A spasm of pain flitted over the invalid's face as she tried to illustrate the "picking up." Another observation brought a choking sensation into Martha's throat. "You and Tom needn't hurry to bed on my account, you know. I'm getting so I can sleep even if I don't get to bed till eleven or twelve. I've—I've tried it in my room. You and Tom can have all the company you want, Martha. I notice I actually sleep well in the morning—these last few days. And my afternoon nap is really more a habit than anything." "She heard, she heard!' Martha moaned to herself, as she rattled pans in the pantry. "Taking it out on the pans, huh!" the Ugly Thought confronted her. "Oh, shut up and get out of here," Martha Snapped. "It is cruel—cruel, I tell you. That poor, fragile little thing—longing for her daughter. Her baby, her only child—longing to be with her; and fairly yearning for the companionship of that girl's young people and their interests—the new baby, the granddaughter's sweetheart—the grandson's wife and all—" Martha broke off abruptly. Constance was trying to walk down the stairs unaided. "Here, wait a minute," Martha called. "I’ll help you dear. You'll be falling down those steps one of these times and smashing yourself to' pieces." "No, I’ve been practicing quite by myself. I have gone up and down several times without help, when you and Tom have been out." Martha caught her sister by the arm barely in time. A sudden twinge of pain nearly twisted her off the steps. Somehow there seemed no weight to the thin arm, no resistance. Constance had leaned so heavily before. It was not that she was carrying her weight now. There seemed no weight to carry, her. Body was soft and crumpling, sagging lightly, though no heaviness was there. "Just fairy weight and fairy substance," Martha fought back resentful tears. "She is crumbling up like—like a rose petal. Slipping away before my very eyes! And Edythe won't see!" "Now nothing special for me,' Constance insisted at table. "I know I can eat anything. It is perfectly absurd that meat would aggravate my rheumatism." "Well, you keep to the doctor's orders, anyhow," Martha advised. "Tom and I are not great meat eaters. Meat actually is 
 Something had happened in the night, Martha felt sure of that. With a dread premonition she sat up. The Ugly Thought was on the foot-board of her bed, as it were. He had been away for some time. "Oh, you are there, are you?" Martha rapped out sharply. Somehow she could not be as sharp as she meant to be. The Ugly Thought, or was it the Ugly Thought? Sat humped over, his shoulders drooping. He did not stare at Martha. His shoulders were heaving. "You're—you're not crying are you?" Martha scolded. "I've been—away while you slept—over—over to—to Edythe's place, her—her daughter's place." Martha tried to get up. "Something happened in the night." "I knew it, I knew it," Martha cried. She tried again to rise. "A little baby came in the night. I was there. It came in pain, so much pain. The mama almost died. Such a young mother!" "The age Constance was—when Edythe was born," Martha remembered. "Yes, I joggled her elbow, Edythe's elbow," the Thought went on. "Yes, I joggled her elbow and—something—woke up inside her. IJt—was her memory or remembrance or—something tender and sad that had been sleeping inside her for a long time. It stirred then—and she remembered of a sudden that once—she had been born—" "Who, Edythe?", "Yes, Edythe. She remembered that she had been born once, just like that. It was for her that a little body lay on a bed of pain—a little, gentle body—in pain and danger! A lovely, little body that was made up only of love—and tenderness toward her! And then, she remembered again that somebody sat up of nights— and watched while she slept. Somebody got up many, many times in the nights in broken slumber and did things for her—" "For Edythe." "Yes, she remembered that. Edythe's memory told her, too, that somebody who loved her, regulated the whole household and her own life for Edythe's sake. Somebody gave her the best room, the daintiest bed and kept it sweet, made her the prettiest clothes and kept her lovely so she wouldn't be—offensive—and unattractive to—to others." "Oh, go away," Martha broke out impatiently. "I know, I know all that. I've thought it over a hundred times. Move out of my way. I want to know about Constance. I must know that she is all right. Sometime she will slip away in the night, elude me so that I can never find her again, just as I dreamed in the night." 
 that would have their way. "She loves her," Martha cried, "she had forgotten, that is all." Edythe's voice penetrated into their hearts again, '"Harold's baby came in the night, Mother. MHarold's and Jennie's. How hard I must have been. Somehow I never thought of it as Jennie's baby until last night. Somehow I never thought of all you had done for me until last night." There was silence for a minute. Then Edythe must have raised her head and noticed the startling cut on her mother's cheek. "Oh, my dear, what have you done to hurt yourself so?" "I was trying to be independent—and not trouble folks—and so I—I." The tender apology was smothered in kisses. "You must let us love you and wait on you as we shall serve our new baby. There are to be two guests of honor at our home, now, Mother. Why, I can't begin to repay you for all the trouble and anxiety and sleepless nights and pain you have endured for me." "Oh, but it was joy every bit of it," Constance protested happily. Edythe gathered the crumpled rose-petals of motherhood into her arms again. "And this is going to be all joy and love, too, Mother. Just think of the inconvenience and burden I must have been to you, if you had not loved me." Constance' eyes lingered on her daughter's face caressingly. "I suppose that is what makes the difference," she sighed. “Do you think—your love can stand the strain?" ~ "Darling, all through the night and every foot of the way here I have prayed that I might be given the chance to try," Edythe cried. "I was in terror lest you might be gone—before I could make up to yuo a little for all I might 'have done." "If you will just help me to dress," Constance faltered. She felt she could not speak except about something practical. "My rose-colored dressing gown is there in the wardrobe." "Dearest, I don't care a snap about your rose-colored gown," Edythe protested. "I want you. And you are adorable in anything. Now we must hurry. Jennie is waiting to lay her treasure in your arms. Somehow we can't feel that she is ours till you —share her." x Ok k ok OK Martha sat down with her darning, when the two were gone. The Thought nestled into the wad of stockings and looked up at her. "Why, you are not ugly any more." Martha wondered. "You are not ugly at all!" -; "Ugly or Amiable!" the Thought smiled, actually smiled. "Ugly or Amiable, just the difference between a splash of tears or the flash of a smile! Only the difference between feeling and remembering."