LESSON III Literature. _ (Third week in January) The literary work for the coming year will consist of a study of American literature. Three distinct periods loom before us, as we think of our American life on this continent. First, the Colonial period (1607- 1765) with the hardships incident to pioneer life?a life that would be readily understood by our pioneer fathers and mothers. Following this period is the Revolutionary period (1765-1789) a period of conflict when intense hatred of tyranny and love of freedom found voice in Patrick Henry's classic phrase, "Give me lberty, or give me death." The third period is the period of the Republic, (1789-1922), the period that has given to us our best American poetry, essays, novels, short stories, dramas, letters, and criticism. Colonial Period: During the Colonial period the people were so completely occupied subduing the country, turning a rockbound coast into a habitable place, preserving their lives and property from the Indians, that they had no time to devote to any of the arts. Ce Sane ee GUIDE LESSONS ? 603 There is yet another reason why tio literature, in the sense of literature as a fine art, was known at this time. Religion was the all engrossing topic, along the New England coast, so that persons possessing literary talents either went into the pulpit, thereby entering into the ministry, or they devoted themselves to the writing of ecclesiastical history. The same condit: on existed in America as existed in Italy, from the tenth to the fifteenth century. Painters, during this period, used their talents to decorate the cathedrals and churches of the middle ages, and their subjects were taken from the Bible or the lives of the Saints. The New England minister was regarded as the leading citizen in the commun'ty. Katherine Lee Bates says of the minister of the Colonial pericd, that "he was a little short of an autocrat, the New England parson of the Heroic age, in his black Geneva cloak and close fitting, Llack velvet cap. The tongue that decried him was in danger of a cleft stick. Criticisms of his sermons were answered with public stripes." Of their place of meeting Katherine Lee Bates has this to say, "The meetinghouse was the strong power of Colon'al truth. Built on a hill top, it had served at the outset, for fort as well as church. Ammunition was stored in 'ts loft. On its flat roof cannon were posted and sentinels kept watch. The drum beat assembled an armed congregation." "For once, for fear of Indian beating, Our grandsires bore their guns to meeting. Each man equipped on Sunday morn With psalm-book, shot and powder horn, And looked in form, as all must grant Like the ancient true church militant." It has been estimated that of the five hundred and fifty publications, known to have been produced in America from 1706 to 1718, all but eighty-four were on religious topics, forty-nine of the eighty-four being almanacs. Another way in which the life of the colonials bore very 'close resemblance to the life of the pioneers is evidenced by the fact that they had constantly to protect themselves from the Indians. Indians, to be sure, find the'r way from time to time in all of the early _American literature. The people who settled Virginia were different from those who settled in Massachuse'ts. Those who landed in Virginia were in the main fortune hunters, lured by tales of gold and jewels, "Even the dripping pans are made of pure gold," said o~e of the popular English plays of the time. The first permanent colony, of 1607, has been described as a company of one hundred "fortune seeking gallants, soldiers, servants, with a few downright rogues and the merest sprinkling of mechanics."  The prominent name among the Virginia colonists is that of Captain John Smith, who has given us the most dramatic of all Indian tales which, whether true or false, has immortalized Chief Powhatan and the lovely Princess Pocahontas. The love story of Colonial time most admired and most beloved is that of John Alden and Priscilla Mullins. It is a great debt we owe to Henry W. Longfellow that he has preserved this tale in all its quaintness in the atmosphere of an age that has passed. These early settlers of the New World were homesick. At one time the writer went through Kent and Devonshire with a young woman born and reared in Boston. Daily we passed through English towns, whose names were familiar to the native of New England, Boston being one of them. "I never sensed before how homesick my ancestors really were,' she remarked, on one occasion. These people imported their literature from England, just as they imported their dress goods and other household commodities of life, and doubtless preferred the imported article. All about them was a new world, with new physical features, with an expanse and vastness that was in sharp contrast to their island home, with different song birds and different flowers, but they heeded them not. Deep in their hearts was the memory of the English landscapes, and of Engl'sh birds; a memory kept alive by the literature they read; a memory that they refused to relinquish for many decades after they landed in America. All through the Colonial period religion was, to employ a political phrase, the paramount issue. In time, the meetinghouse ceased to be a fort and an arsenal, but it continued to be a place of the strictest discipline. "Tt remained a bleak and austere place of long prayers and longer sermons, and of most discordant singing. With little aid of printed notes and noise of instruments. - There were no stoves. Sometimes it chanced that m'dwinter babies were sprinkled with baptismal water from which the ice in the christening bowl had to be broken, the parent allowing themselves a twinge of pride if the tiny Puritan endured the ordeal without a cry! Sometimes the communion bread was frozen pretty hard and rattled sadly in the plates! The congregation embracing the whole community was seated by scale of social consequence; magistracy, wealth, learning, military service, age, were factors in dignity. Men and women were seated apart, spinsters, ungallantly known in Boston as thornbacks, by themselves, negroes by themselves, boys by themselves." Forbidding and socially unjust as many of the Puritan customs were, yet they were not wholly bad. In their churches people learn- _  ed God and their Redeemer and knew much concerning his divine commandments. Today, people too often do any other thing than go to a house of worship on the Sabbath. They know little of his divine purpose in relation to his children. The Puritan forced from life many things that make for happiness, but at least he held in his heart the knowledge of the life after death, and believed that eventually justice and peace and law and order would be the common heritage of man. Today there are thousands of people in the world, who know little of God, little of the Bible, and who doubt very much if there is a God, or if there is a divine purpose in the things that are and are to be. These people are without hope, and truly as the Scripture saith, they are of all people most miserable. REFERENCES The Colonial Period: A Standard History of the Umied States. Any good history of American literature. OUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Into what three periods has the history of American literature been divided? 2. Which period is foremost in its literary output? What variety is there in this output? 3. In your opinion, would a survey of Latter-day Saint I: terature likely disclose the same fact that the survey of American literature discloses, that the majority of the Latter-day Saint writers have written on religious topics? 4. Have some one relate the story of the Courtship of Miles Standish placing emphasis on any word or phrase that helps to portray the Puritan life. 5. Have some one relate an incident of Indian life that you would like to see cast into story or poem. If possible, have some one sing a solo from the opera Priscilla. If you can, easily, have some children dressed in Colonial costumes; it will add to the effect.