VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1888.	NO. 10.


[Column 1]
			AN UNSEEN ANGEL.
		    NANCY PATTON M'LEAN.
Soft fell the tender shades of eve, the coming night fore-
	telling; 
Afar and near rose sweet and clear the organ's song up-
	welling;
To other ears a wordless hymn; to mine, attuned to
	sadness.
Each note was full and running o'er with loving praise and
	gladness.
With weary hearts and tired feet I crossed the sacred 
	portal. 
Weary of sin and tired of toil, the common lot of mortal.
Down throunb the aisles the music rolled from out the 
	organ ringing, 
The angel met me at the door, a joyous message bring-
	ing—
"Give thanks, the Lord our God is good, His mercy faileth
	never;
Be glad, O heaven, and sing, O earth, our God is God for-
	ever!"
"I am too tired to sing," I said; "I have no thanks to 
	render.
Life's path is cold and hard to tread, my feet are sore and 
	tender. 
Where friendship's torch should constant burn, it shows 
	but fitful flashes; 
The gold I grasp to rust will turn, the fruit is only ashes. 
They have the less of care to bear whose life is soonest 
ended." 
Sweet with the organ's solemn roll the angel's answer
	blended—
"Envy thou not the quiet dead; nor covet thou their
	sleeping.
Bear bravely thy appointed lot, thy faith and honor keep-
	ing;
And hold this blessed truth in mind, forget its beauty
	never,
Whether Life smiles or darkly frowns, our God is God for-
	ever!"
"I am so sick of sin," I said, "and sin is all surrounding. 
The good I would do, do I not, because of sin abounding. 
I reach toward the higher life, my soul for freedom long-
	ing, 
My feet are struggling in the mire where base desires are
	thronging.
What need is there of sin to be? Why spurn I not its
	proffers?
The very bitterness of death is in the cup it offers." 
Still underneath and far above the organ's solemn pealing 
The angel's tender melody into my heart came stealing- 
"Behold the cross! O tired soul; lay down thy heavy bur-
	den! 
Seek here the strength oft promised as true faith's unfailing
	guerdon."
"I have no faith," I said with tears. Why should I cease 
	from crying? 
Within the clasp of these sad years my darling dead are
	lying.
Why are they gone while I am here? My grief is just and
	holy."
The angel sang still sweet and clear, still lovingly and
	lowly—
"Thy dead are safe in God's own care; O, sad soul, cease 
	thy wailing. 
Earth hath no guardian anywhere so loving, so unfailing.
The Lord is very pitiful unto His children's sorrow; 
This grief is for thine earthly day— what joy the heavenly 
	morrow!
Oh, sing the Father's grace to thee, whose mercy failing
	never,
Gives unto thy beloved sleep- then sinless life forever."
I bowed my head in bitter pain that strove with deep con-
	trition. 
"Father," I cried, and with the word my heart broke in
	submission.
I saw the love, I saw the grace, I saw the tender beauty 
That shineth from the Father's face along the path of duty.
[Column 2]
The angel's voice was hushed awhile and all the people
	singing
Sent up to God a noble hymn with thankful praises ring-
	ing. 
And when the solemn words of prayer rose over heads all
	bended,
The doubts, the fears, the cares, the tears and weariness 
	were ended; 
And all the happy paths of peace within my heart rang 
	ever,
"Give thanks! Our Father is our God, whose mercy fail-
	eth never." 
							    -Hearth and Hall.


[Column 1]

SOME SERIOUS REFLECTIONS.

	I dreamed, a few nights ago, of being led by
circumstances into a room, or office, where I
found myself in the presence of a number of
our aged brethren, some Apostles, and one
brother, who occupied a chair near the centre
of the room and attracted my attention most,
was from the spirit world. Though I did not
know his name, I kept my eyes upon him,
while listening with deep interest to the con-
versation, which was upon common topics, or
 the scenes which most deeply concern the Lat-
ter-day Saints. After a little he spoke as fol-
lows, emphasizing every word so that it im-
pressed itself the stronger upon my memory:
"Why," said he, "we are around here all the
time, and know everything that is transpiring,"
meaning among our own people and the Gen-
tiles, and that there were many more beside
himself, who were similarly engaged.
	This I believe to be verily true. It brought
to my mind the testimony of many who were
present at the dedication of the Manti Temple,
whose eyes were opened, and they bore witness
of many glorious visions, of personages who
 appeared to them with the heavenly music and
singing, which was heard at different times, all
proving that we are not separated from those
who were co-workers with us here, and are still
engaged in the interest of those with whom
they labored for years in establishing the
principles of this Gospel, and planning for the
holy Temples, in which the work is continuing
on for the living and for the dead.
	I am often led to reflect upon these glorious
things, and compare them with the vanities of
the world, the mammon of unrighteousness,
which has such a hold upon the human mind,
that it can take those richer and everlasting
treasures in the hearts of men and women who
have once feasted upon the smne, but through
slothfuluess and a gradual neglect of their
duties, have come to love these pleasures more
than the things gf God. I can realize some-
thing of the solemnity that rested upon the
minds of some of our fathers who bore the
weight of these things for years, before they
were laid to rest under the silent sod of mother
earth. I have felt to bemoan the many sad
mistakes that have been made by brethren and
sisters once so valiant for the truth, which
they professed to have a testimony of, and
have wondered how they could have a face to
deny the "Mormonism, which they had once
known the truth of, and declared to be the
work of God, then deny it, and say that it is
false, and turn to persecuting those who remain
true to their convictions. Apostacy from the
Church of Christ is a thing more terrible and
more to be lamented than, all the calamities,
that have ever befallen the Latter-day Saints.
At different periods within my recollection

[Column 2]

these things have been witnessed, and the mid-
night darkness into which they sank, their
very countenances betraying it to their con-
demnation before their brethren and sisters.
They had lost the light of the true Gospel by
degrees, and were not able to discern between
men chosen by the Almighty, and those in-
spired by the wicked one. The trials of many
has made shipwreck of their faith, it having
been pinned to the actions of men. I cannot
see what the mistakes, or failures of men has
to do with the Gospel revealed from on high
for the eternal salvation of the human family,
nor how any principle, or doctrine connected
therewith can be effected. The Church has
continued to grow and increase in strength and
power, and will still roll farward, and no power
can hinder the accomplishment of the pur-
poses for which it was revealed and established
in this dispensation, no matter how many may
slip or weaken at the sight of danger and
yield to cowardice, or to some other weakness
of poor humanity—beset as we are by the
powers of evil, not being prepared or suffici-
ently fortified to contend against them. It
shows how necessary it is for every individual
to know for themselves whether or not this
work is of God or of man, and not depend up-
on the testimony of another. This has been
taught from the beginning, and the Prophet
Joseph frequently remarked, that his word
was no more than any other man's, except
when he said, "Thus saith the Lord."
	It was in this spirit that he taught the princi-
ple of celestial marriage, and some of his
wives have testified that he admonished them
to go to the Lord and inquire of Him concern-
ing this principle, with the promise that they
 should have his faith; and this was his counsel
to many others to whom he revealed the
principle, and none who obeyed his counsel
failed to receive the promised testimony, be-
sides receiving a great blessing. And it was
this-alone that enabled them to endure their
bitter trials and privations, as well as the scorn
and reproaches of many a one calling them-
selves Latter-day Saints. Had the Prophet
designed evil, or to lead captive the daughters
of Zion, he would hardly have given this kind
 of counsel. Here is some of his earliest teach-
ings from Lecture Sixth in Doctrine and
 Covenants, treating of the "knowledge which
persons must have, that the course of life
which they pursue is according to the will of
God, in order that they may be enabled to
exercise faith in Him unto life and salva-
tion."
	"An actual knowledge to every person, that
the course of life which he pursues is according
to the will of God, is essentially necessary to
enable him to have that confidence in God,
without which no person can obtain eternal
life. It was this that enabled the ancient
 Saints to endure all their afflictions and perse-
cutions, and take joyfully the spoiling of their
goods, knowing (not believing merely), that
they had a more enduring substance. Hebrews
x, 34.
	"A religion," he says, "that does not require
the sacrifice of all things never has power
sufficient to produce the faith necessary unto the
enjoyment of life and salvation, for from the
first existence of man, the faith necessary unto
the enjoyment of life and salvation, never
could be obtained without the sacrifice of all 
earthly things. It was through this sacrifice,
and this only, that God has ordained that men


should enjoy life, and it is through the medium
of sacrifice of all earthly things, that men do 
actually know that they are doing the things
that are well pleasing in the sight of God."
	This is plain and to the point. The sacrifices
which the Saints have made at various times, 
and the adversities which they have had to 
meet, seem so very similar to those endured by
the ancient saints, that this alone should be a 
testimony of this being the true Church. 
Those who have imagined that a smooth, un-
ruffled life is proof of their upright and Godly 
course; have not considered that of the Savior, 
nor of His disciples. But those who are estab-
lished in the faith can easily believe that op-
position, persecution, tribulation and sacrifice 
is the alloted portion of every faithful follower 
of Jesus Christ.
	The persecutions and unlawful proceedings
that are being carried on by men inspired by 
the evil one, we have been led to expect, and
also for a falling away, or apostacy from the 
Church of God. This was among the events 
that were to take place before "the redemption
of Zion," which "must needs come by power;
therefore, I will raise up unto my people a 
man who shall lead them like as Moses led the 
children Israel. 	*	*	And as your
fathers were led at the first, even so shall the 
redemption of Zion be."
	The true Latter-day Saint will be measur-
ably prepared for whatever may transpire.
The great and mighty revolutions, and the dis-
tress of the nations at the present time, are 
things that we have been looking for. 	We 
know that they will continue until the earth is 
cleansed of its wickedness; and it stands us in 
hand to set a double watch over ourselves, 
that we do not grieve and lose the Holy Spirit, 
and drift away into unbelief, but prepare our-
selves for what is laying before us, which are 
days of tribulation, and try to avoid that awful
whirlpool into which so many have been led, 
either by a spirit of doubt and unbelief, or 
because of transgression, and have sank to rise 
no more. Those who bear these things in
 mind, and are watching the signs of the times
will be able to discern between truth and error,
and accept their trials as needful lessons, that 
will add to their store of experience, which in 
a future day will be of the greatest worth.
Besides, it will test the faith of every soul, 
provingwho are the pure in heart, who can
 lay claim to the promise that they shall see 
God and walk in the light of His countenance. 
The promise that the old men should dream
dreams, and the young men should see visions
—meaning women as well—we claim has been 
realized by many, and to a great extent; and 
would that there were more who had on the 
armor of righteousness, and realized the honor
which the Lord has conferred upon them, and 
the conditions upon which they have received
the promise of an eternal exaltation in His 
kingdom, that whatever comes they would be 
found among that number, who will stand firm 
and immovable as the rock of ages to every
principle of the everlasting Gospel, trusting
not in flesh, but in the Almighty, who stands
at the helm, and will honor their integrity aud
bear them off victorious. 
			HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	October 3, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LINCOLN PARK.

	Lincoln Park, in the North-Eastern part
of Chicago, borders on the lake point, and is
very extensive and attractive, as was the man
from  whom it derived its name.
	As in other parks, there are rustic seats,
shaded by large trees, and the ground is every-
where carpeted with beautiful lawns and
flower beds, intermingled with artificial ponds
and channels, for the convenience of boaters.
	But its chief attractions are those of its hot

[Column 2]

﻿house and its extensive exhibition of wild
animals. In the hot house can be found in-
numerable tropical plants and flowers, so
arranged, according to class and form, as to
produce at the same time the most pleasing and
instructive appearance.
	One room of the house is dedicated to the
feathered songsters, of which there is a great
variety, but we will leave the birds and pass on
to the beasts.
	As you enter the Park from the street car, a
beautifully bridged channel is crossed, then im-
mediately to the right is a small pond, in the
 centre of which is a rock island, bearing an in-
scription something like this; "Any person
found throwing any thing into the water, or
at the sea lions, will be promptly arrested."
On the other side is the name of the donor,
and at the time of the printing there were two
sea lions, since when one has had the misfor-
tune to die, and if it is possible for the lower
animals to feel a loss of any kind, the remain-
ing seal surely mourns for its lost companion.
It now seldom creates any disturbance, while in
the past discord seemed to be its chief amuse-
ment.
	A little farther on to the left is a very large
wire cage, and as has already been surmised, is
occupied by birds. The owl sits upon a high
perch, just large enough for himself, with his
eyes wide open, and apparently watching the
 moving forms of human spectators, while the
eagles fly from perch to perch, and though un-
able to attract attention from the owl, their pre-
sence is at least perceptible to the slowly moving
alligators and mud-turtles, as they crawl in and
out of a sluggish little pond beneath. The rabbits
have a separate apartment in the same cage,
and enjoy themselves, as the more intellectual
rabbits should, i. e.: in games that are not dis-
tasteful to the refined rabbit. A little further
on is another large bird cage, containing a
great many varieties of birds and small
animals, such as the blue jay, quails, porcu-
pines, squirrels, etc. How quick the latter as-
cends the tree, but how much quicker they de-
scend if induced to jump for peanuts. Across
the walk from the bird cage is a small box
faced with very fine wire, entombing white, or
 albino rats. They make a very beautiful pic-
ture, with spotless coats and pink eyes. The
young are placed in a small wire nest, and they
lie so closely together, that they very much
resemble a little roll of pure white cotton.
	The ground to the right of the "rats" is the
home of the prairie dog; true to his habits of
uncivilized life, he gathers all the peanuts
offered into his under-ground retreat, and pro-
vides in every way possible for the long, cold
winter, which he seems to realize is inevitable.
Whether they understand the geological
changes of the seasons or not, could only be
learned by conversing with one of their profes
sors, or attending one of the "dog" schools.
	At any rate, they provide for the coming
season, and in all seem so fearless. It is a
characteristic of the prairie dog to be timid,
but here we see them coming to the edge of
 the wire railing, and standing on two legs, hold
out the other two as if professional beggars.
(For the latter there is no place like Chicago.)
 	The other animals will be described at a
later date.		X.


PRICE PRIMARY FAIR.
	
	On the 21st of September a Primary Fair
was held at Price, Emery Co. Doors were 
opened at 10 o'clock. There was an exhibi-
tion, of needle and crochet work, home-made
woolen yarn, carpenter work, marbles, vege-
tables and corn, by children from four to six
years old.
	Meeting was called to order by the Prest.,
Jane Eldredge. Singing. Prayer was offered
by Bro. E. W. McIntire. Singing, after which


there were songs, recitations and dialogues, by
the Price and Spring Glenn Primaries.
	Bros. Hardman and McIntire spoke a few
encouraging words to the children.
	Singing. Benediction by Bro. F. M. Ewell.
						E. E. BRANCH.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	The brave man is an inspiration to the weak,
and compels them to follow him.

	As it is the characteristic of great wits to
say much in few words, so it is of small wits
to talk much and say nothing.—Rochefoucault.

	Obscurity in writing is commonly an argu-
ment of darkness in the mind. The greatest
learning is to be seen in the greatest plainness.
—Bishop Wilkins.

	Although men are accused of not knowing
their own weakness, yet perhaps as few know
their own strength. It is in men as in soils,
where sometimes there is a vein of gold, which
the owner knows not of.—Swift.

	There is no knowledge for which so great a
price is paid as the knowledge of the world;
and no one ever became an adept in it except
at the expense of a hardened and wounded
heart.—Countess of Blessington.


Miss Mary A. Green is the second Massa-
chusetts woman lawyer. She will be a mem-
ber of Suffolk County Bar.


OBITUARIES.
	Mary Ann, the beloved wife of Joshua Jarvis, departed
this life at Bloomington, Sept. 24th, 1888.  She was born 
in Bethlingreen, London, March 10th, 1840; emigrated to
Salt Lake City in 1861; moved to Cottonwood, where she 
resided a short time; from there went to Logan, and in
June, 1865, came to Bear Lake Valley, where she resided 
until her death, proving herself a devoted wife, loving
mother and constant friend.  She was faithful to her 
religion, and filled the offices of Secretary and Second
Counselor in the Relief Society; the latter office she held
at the time of her death. There is not one but will miss
her cheering smile and loving counsel.  Among singers she
was the sweetest, but her melodious voice we shall hear no 
more, until we hear it in the choirs of heaven. 
		Sister, rest your weary body,
			Now  your work on earth is done,
		But your memory will be sacred
			In the heart of every one
		Who has joined you in the duties
			Resting on our little band;
		May we still enjoy your presence
			In the blest and holy land.
									E. C. P.
	It is with feelings of sorrow we record the death of our 
beloved sister, Elsie Lant, who died Aug. 6th, 1888, aged
thirty-eight years, eleven months and fourteen days. 
			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to take from
our midst our beloved sister,
	Resolved, That we, her associates and co-workers in the
Third District of the Payson Relief Society, of which she 
was presiding teacher, do mourn her loss, that we cherish
her memory, for we can truly say she manifested that true 
charity which flows from a sense of duty and hope in God. 
	Resolved, That we sympathize with the bereaved family
and friends of our departed sister, praying that the comfort-
ing influence of our Heavenly Father may rest upon them
and that her children may be inspired to walk in her foot
steps.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions to 
the bereaved family; also that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT for publication, and that they be placed upon the 
district record. 
								MARTHA SIMONS,
								MARY A. NEBEKER,
								PHEBE HANCOCK.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THOUGHTS OF LIFE AND NATURE. 

	The poet's mind has wandered 
		O'er the path of Mortal life,
	One side seems strewed with roses, 
		The other, thorns and strife.		
	God sent those blooming flowers
		To cheer the weary day,
	But the thorns will often prick us
		As we saunter by the way.

	Life's composed of clouds and sunshine,
		Of the evil ways and good,
	But the story of the future
		Is not easy understood;
	The calm, bright days of summer	
		Pass by us like a dream, 	
	And the icy path of winter
		Soon melts into a stream.

	The flowers by the roadside
		Bloom but once, and die;
	Their green leaves fall and wither—
		Oh, some one tell us why?
	Why does the brightest sunshine
		Become darkened by the night?
	Because we are only mortals,
		And it can't be always bright.

	Why is the smile of mother,
		Often broken with a sigh?
	And in her gloomy chamber 
		Do we often hear her cry?
	Why do her wavy ringlets
		Become so thin and white?
	And the eyes that shone like morning
		Lose their lustre and their light?

	Because it's human nature,
		And the gayest things have changed;
	God's hands have painted nature, 
		And His colors He's arranged,
	Life's path is always threatened
		By some approaching storm,
	And the peal of distant thunder
		Comes to warn us of the harm.

	Why do the apple-blossoms,
		On the branches white and tall,
	Only come to show their beauty,
		Then with the breezes fall? 
	Because Dame Nature calls them
		To the earth's [-]ntidy floor,
	For they've lived their time appointed,
		And their blooming time is o'er.

	Oh! why are we but mortals,
		Just sent to stay awhile,
	Un[-]il Thy heavenly angels
		O'er our whitened brows will smile.
	The gentle summar breezes
		All whisper in a breath,
	That life is always subject
		To weakness and to death.

			From M. A. F.


TO AUNT POLLY.

Dear Aunt Polly:
	Your pleasantly worded letter has roused
me from the partial apathy which has fallen
over "things mental" of late, and I am going
to steal these few minutes, while my dinner 
is boiling to try, at least, to answer you.
	You have alluded in so truthful and vivid
a way to my uneventful life at Laie, whose
chief variation consists in wash-day, and whose
only excitement is mail-day, that I shall simply
say, "It is even so!"
	I sometimes wish that speaking was done in 
something the same way as writing; for when
one is angry, one seldom takes time to write
down the angry thoughts, nor do we often
write out our troubles, or gossip to our friends.
But our tongues go away at a tangent, and 
things are often said for which we feel sorrow:
	Since I have been here, I have but once
or twice broken through a rule I made when
I came, and that was, no matter what occurred
[Column 2]
here of a disagreeable nature, not to put it on
paper for others to read. But I have, indeed,
as you so thoughtfully suggest, been shadowed
by heavy clouds of sorrow, and have pricked 
my feet over many thorny obstacles in my 
path. Well, so we do everywhere; therefore, 
let me be grateful for all I have enjoyed and 
endured. The one is a pleasant remembrance,
the other needed lessons in life.
	At present we are very happily situated.
President King's wife and Sister Nellie Beesley
live over at the Mission House, and take turns
at the kitchen work; our family being the only
other at present in Laui Huli. We three sis-
ters have many cosy times together, and in no
place have I seen a better, more united spirit
than exists here. But for many months we
have had no evening services on Sunday, be-
cause there were so few of us here. I have 
missed them.
	Your kind and sympathetic words have
touched me strangely; perhaps because I have 
grown very tender-hearted here so far away
from home; perhaps because it is so rarely we 
are made conscious that our humble efforts are
realized or noticed by any one. I earnestly
echo your wish for that nearer acquaintance-
ship.
	Now let me give you a little Laie news. You 
will remember the "big room," or general sit-
ting-room at the Mission House? Then, if you 
do, you will at the same time recall its generally
comfortless aspect. No one, I am assured; has 
been to blame for this, as eating in it three
times a day, and the almost constant presence
of the natives, have kept it in a comparatively
untidy condition.
	Of late, I am pleased to report, Sisters King
and Nellie Beesley have taken the matter into 
their own hands, and the result is really a 
genuine surprise, as well as an innovation.
Lace curtains, with heavily fringed velvet lam-
berquins drape the windows, hanging from rich
looking cornices.  A very good striped mat-
ting covers the floor.  The dining-table has
been banished, and in its stead a large center
table, covered with a bright cloth, and strewn
with books, occupies the center of the floor.
The asthmatic organ, the ancient sideboard, and,
indeed, every piece of furniture in the room
has received a generous coat of varnish.  New
pictures, donated in some instances by the
Elders, aid in the wall adornment.  The old
sofa has been stuffed till it looks almost 
apoplectic, then covered with dark, handsome
creton, and cushions added to it; the big chair
has been treated in the same manner, while the
cane rocking chair is gorgeous in two fine
crazy cushions, all of silk and velvet pieces.
The rough deal shelves, which assisted the few
walnut ones in forming our modest library,
have been brightened by embroidered velvet
valances or curtains, and a large, fine office
clock ticks on the wall. The pictures of our
beloved leaders hang in the honored places, 
while Daniel Webster frowns down upon us
from a corner; Anderson's oil painting hangs
above the door, and the pictures of our ex-
presidents, Pack, Cluff and Partridge, and Sis-
ter Partridge, all occupy prominent positions.
Dear "Maggie" Cluff, as the natives love to
call her, still smiles upon us near her husband,
the only thing we have left of her sweet 
womanliness. We have no picture of Sister
Speight, for which we often express our regrets,
as we have a magnificent one of her companion.
Bright colored mats lie under vases and lamps,
pretty tidies add the finishing touches to lounge,
chairs and tables. The whole room has an air
of comfort and elegance, and inspires every one
with a desire to behave one's self at one's very
best.
	All this sounds extravagant, but outside of
the white-washing and painting (new coats of 
which are being added inside and out over the
whole house), the deft and tasty fingers of the
[Column 3]
sisters have done every bit of it all. In point
of dollars, the cost has been small, but as a 
labor of love and good-will the account runs
up large.
	I must add that the dining-table is now set
in the middle room, fitted up for the purpose,
between the dining-room and kitchen.
	Perhaps this letter is long enough to satisfy
you and bother "Aunt Em," so I will say no 
more just now, only that I sincerely send my
"aloha mui" to the Editor and readers of our 
EXPONENT, and beg you, Aunt Polly, to keep
a very generous share for yourself.
						HOMESPUN.	
	N. B. I suspect who you are, notwithstand-
ing your reserve.					H. 
	Laie, Sept. 23, 1888.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	Elizabeth Cady Stanton has come out for the
Prohibition Party.
	The gamblers and criminal classes of Wash-
ington Territory lit bonfires and rang bells and
hurrahed in the streets when the Federal
Judges violated their oaths and refused to
enforce the woman's suffrage law. According
to these Judges one blackleg ruffian has more
power at the polls than all the wives and
mothers.—Ex.
	The Baroness Gripenberg of Finland had a
reception given her, week before last, in Sara-
toga, at tbe house of Mrs. Harriet Whipple
Wallace. Among those present were Mrs.
Lucy Stone of the Boston Woman's Journal,
Miss Anthony, from Rochester; Miss Caroline
A. Huling, editor of Chicago Justitia; Mr.
Albert O. Wilcox, from New York, and many
residents of Saratoga. Several addresses were
made, and the Baroness's account of women's
affairs in Finland was heard with much inter-
est. She is a member of the Board of Educa-
tion of Helsingfors, and was a delegate to the
International Council of women.


"Denis Kearney was "finished" by Sara An-
drews Spencer. At the Chicago Labor Con-
vention of 1880 he interrupted her, roaring:
"My wife told me if I voted for the women she
would greet me with a flatiron! Women don't
want to vote!" Mrs. Spencer answered,
"Thank you much for telling me which is the
head of the Kearney family." That was the
end of Denis. "The daughter of Zion had
laughed him to scorn." He could not get the
convention to hear him, and has not been heard
from since."

	"Your name ain't Tree, is it?" cried Ange-
line's father down the stairs to Angeline's
young man as the clock struck 12.
	"N n-no sir; m-m-my name's R-r-r-r-obert
W-w-wilkins, sir, stammered the young man.
	"Oh, excuse me, Mr. R-r-r-r-obert W-w-wil-
kins sir," retorted the old man courteously.
"I might a known your name wasn't Tree, be-
cause you never seem to leave."
	And then Mr. Robert Wilkin's limbs
sprouted, and the pitter-patter of his feet
down the broad walk told that he was leaving
as fast as he knew how.

	They were discussing the magazines. "That
was a fine portrait of Lester Wallack in Scrib-
ner's, Miss Brown," said he.
	"Indeed, yes. And how interesting the
Century 'Bric-a brac' was last month," said
she.
	"Wasn't it. And how good the last chap-
ters of 'Annie Kilburn' are?" said he.
	"I haven't read them," said she.
	"Aren't you fond of serials?" said he.
	"Not very; I don't mind rice, but I despise
oatmeal. Why do you ask?" said she.
	And he said, "Good evening Miss Brown."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	OCTOBER 15, 1888.


RELIEF SOCIETY CENTRAL BOARD.

	On the 11th of October Sister Zina D. H.
Young was set apart by the Apostles to preside
over all the Relief Societies in the Church, and
Sister Jane S. Richards as her First Counselor,
and Sister Bathsheba W. Smith as her Second
Counselor; Sister Emmaline B. Wells as Corres-
ponding Secretary.
	The Central presiding Board of the Relief
Societies now consists of the followihg officers;
President, Zina D. H. Young; First Counselor,
Jane S. Richards; Second Counselor, Bathsheba
W. Smith; Secretary, Sarah M. Kimball; Assist-
ant Secretary, Romania B. Pratt; Treasurer, M.
Isabella Horne; Corresponding Secretary, Emme-
line B. Wells.


[Column 1]

COMMENTS.

	In the afternoon of Tuesday, Sept. 25th, a
party of ladies and gentlemen accompanied Mrs.
Saxon and Mrs. Colby to Salt Lake. Through
the courtesy of Hon. W. W. Riter, whom we
sincerely thank for the favor, a car was tendered
free for the ladies, and a very pleasant party en-
joyed the luxury of the ride and bath in the
famous Lake, so often compared by travelers to
the Dead Sea. Mrs. Saxon and Mrs. Colby both
seemed, and indeed expressed themselves as
enjoying to the utmost the conversation, the
scenery, the bath and the magnificent sunset over
the Lake, as viewed from the pavilion and the
cars upon the return trip.
	Early next morning Mrs. Emily S. Richards
and the writer, according to previous appoint-
ment, went with Mrs. Saxon and Mrs. Colby to
the Industrial Home.
	Mrs. Campbell, the Matron, received all the
party with the utmost courtesy, and was most kind
n explaining particulars regarding the institution,
its management, and so forth. She is certainly 
well qualified for the position she holds, and seems
quite equal to the grave responsibility. She re-
erred to the desire on the part of the Board of
Directors, to have Congress change the plan
sufficiently to admit other than plural wives, so
that more could be accomplished than under the
present restrictions. And, indeed, it does seem a
small affair for the Congress of the United States
to legislate for, when the inmates are one woman
and nine children. It is exceedingly doubtful if
there is any city or town of the population of
Salt Lake that could not furnish more inmates for
a charitable institution, even under the same pro-
visions, viz.: women tired of the relations they
sustained as the wives of men who had other
wives. No wonder these charitable people who
are so anxious to do good feel that their platform
of work must be upon a broader plan. Think of
the expense of keeping up a house, with furnish

[Column 2]

ings and employees, matron, cook, laundress, etc.
for one woman and nine children, especially when
so many women and children are actually in a
state of suffering for food and raiment so near
home, in all the great cities and towns of the
United States. How absurd all this must appear
to the people, who know the condition of the
women for whose benefit Congress has been so
liberal! And there are those who do know!
Why here in Salt Lake City it is almost impossi-
ble to obtain hired help for domestic service, or
women to wash or iron; there are not enough to
supply the people, and where is the woman who
would not far rather work for her living than
depend upon the charity of others, even if it
were dispensed by Congress?
	And this very woman who is now an occupant
of the Home, was not destitute; the matron in-
formed us that her husband had offered her $20 a
month towards her support. How many thou-
sands of women are there outside of Utah, who
do not receive so much towards the support of
the family? How many women in the world sup-
port themselves, their children and a worthless or
drunken husband? O, it is pitiful to think upon,
and what is Congress doing for these poor unfor-
tunate women, and the little helpless children?
These are the children that need protection! not
the plural wives of the Elders of Israel.
	It does not seem possible that Congressmen
could have been hoodwinked into making such an
appropriation as has been made for this Industrial
Home in Utah, without making themselves suffi-
ciently acquainted with the conditions here to
know if it was, or would be wisely bestowed.
However, so it is, and in the near future a build-
ing suitable for the purposes designed, will be
erected, and industries established under the di-
rection and control of the Utah Commission.
Where the women are coming from to carry on
these various trades and industries in the several
branches and departments of work is not yet ap-
parent; perhaps Mrs. Angie F. Newman knows,
but we who have lived in Utah for forty years,
must confess our ignorance of these poor de-
graded, unfortunate, unhappy, down-trodden
women, who need support from the Government.
We have traveled extensively in and through
these mountain vales, and everywhere we have
found the women of the people contented and
happy in their homes, and with comfortable sur-
roundings, and we fail to see any need for an
asylum such as these Christian women are so 
anxious to provide for the daughters of Zion—dis-
satisfied plural wives.
	As for the young women, who are likely to be
influenced by polygamous surroundings, what a
flimsy pretext to obtain money, when young and
innocent girls go down by the score and hundreds
in the cities of the East and West, and not a
hand scarcely stretched forth to save them from
destruction.
	The Industrial Home will probably be written
up by Mrs. Colby in the Woman's Tribune, and
we shall be glad to see what she will have to say
upon the subject.
	After leaving the Industrial Home the ladies
were taken to the Orphan's Day Nursery and
other parts of the city, and finally to call at the
Devereaux House, where Mrs. Jennings presented
them with a basket of the choicest fruit. Mrs.
Saxon and Mrs. Colby left on the afternoon train
for Ogden, where they were to speak in the even-
ing. At the Utah Central depot they bade the
final good-bye. The visit had assuredly been
pleasant, and we trust a profitable one to them in
more ways than one.
	We give below the amendment agreed upon in
the Congress of the United States, as published
in the Congressional Record of October 10, 1888.
During the arguments in both Houses of Congress,
there were many erroneous ideas advanced, and
seemingly received, notwithstanding all the en-

[Column 3]

lightenment Congress has had of late years on
the Mormon question. The Delegate from Utah,
one would think, stated matters plain enough for
the members and all who heard or read his speech,
but it seems impossible to convince certain people
that the Latter-day Saints take care of their own,
and that plural wives are self-reliant enough and
too independent by far to enter the Home pro-
vided by Government. To do so they must cer-
tainly apostatize from the faith, which has been
and is their constant guide and support. The
amendment annexed changes the management
considerably, and in fact the character of the
establishment in a great measure, but it is doubt-
ful if it will be satisfactory to those who are so
anxious to take care of Mormon women, while so
many are suffering nearer the heart of the na-
tion.

	Amendments numbered 112 and 113: That the
House recede from its disagreement to the amend-
ments of the Senate numbered 112 and 113, and
agree to the same with an amendment as follows:
In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted by
said amendments insert the following:
	"Industrial Home in Utah Territory: The
Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized
and directed to cause all of the unexpended bal-
ance of appropriations made by two acts of Con-
gress, one approved Aug. 6, 1886, to aid in the
establishment of an industrial home in the Terri-
tory of Utah, and to provide employment and
means of support for the dependent women who
renounce polygamy, and the children of such
women of tender age in said Territory, with a
view to the suppression of polygamy therein; and
the other act approved February 1, 1888, to aid
the Industrial Christian Home Association in
Utah in carrying out under its articles of incor-
poration, the work of providing employment and
means of support for the dependent women who
shall have renounced polygamy, and their children
of tender age, now in the hands of Caleb W.
West, or any other person or corporation, to be
immediately paid over or delivered to a properly
qualified disbursing officer of the United States,
to be appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
And said Secretary of the Treasury is further di-
rected to cause a valid title to the lot or lots of
ground in the city of Salt Lake in said Territory,
that were purchased and paid for with money of
the United States appropriated in the acts before
cited, to be immediately vested absolutely and
unconditionally in the United States forever.
When said balances are fully paid over to said
disbursing officer, the Utah Commission shall be
and become the board of management and control
thereof and of all expenditures of said money,
and of such as may be hereinafter appropriated.
and the said board of management and control
shall proceed at once, on plans and specifications
to be made or approved by said board, to erect or
complete on said lot or lots a building adapted or
designed to carry out the purposes of this act,
and which, when entirely completed and finished,
including the approaches and the fencing and
grading of said lot or lots, shall not in cost ex-
ceed the sum of $50,000; and for these purposes
the money appropriated under the two acts of
Congress above recited and unexpended, is here-
by appropriated, and a further sum is hereby ap-
propriated to complete the work above mentioned,
not exceeding the sum of $24,000.
	"There is also hereby appropriated the further
sum of $4,000, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, to suitably furnish said building when
the same shall have been completed.
	"When said building shall have been completed
and furnished, it shall be placed in the custody of
the Industrial Christian Home Association of
Utah Territory, to be used and occupied by it for
the purpose of aiding in the suppression of poly-
amy, and of furnishing an industrial home and


providing employment and means of self-support
for the dependent women who renounce polygamy,
and the children of such women of tender age in
said Territory; and for the purpose of extinguish-
ing polygamy the following classes may also be
received to wit.
	"First. First or legal wives.
	"Second. Women and girls with polygamous
surroundings in danger of being coerced into
polygamy.
	"Third. Girls of polygamous parentage
anxious to escape from polygamous influences.
	"Fourth. Women and girls who have been
proselyted elsewhere and remove into the Terri-
tory in ignorance of the existence there of poly-
gamy.
	"For aiding in the work of said association for
the present fiscal year, including the transporta-
tion of inmates of the institution who desire to
permanently remove from said Territory, $4,000.
	Said Utah Commission shall hereafter act as the
board of control over said association, both in
the erection of said building and in the conduct
of the work of the association hereafter.
	"Said Utah Commission shall audit all expendi-
tures of said association under any appropria-
tions herein or hereafter made, and shall make an
annual report to Congress covering their expendi-
tures and work hereunder, together with that of
said association.
	"Said Industrial Christian Home Association of
Utah Territory for the work herein defined, shall
have the use and occupation of said building and
grounds, free of rent and charge, until such time
as said work shall be accomplished, or Congress
shall otherwise direct, when possession and occu-
pation of the same shall revert to the United 
States."
	And the Senate agree to the same.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

TERRITORIAL FAIR.

	The Fair for the Territory of Utah was held in
the new and handsome brick building, erected for
the purpose of the display, on the Tenth Ward
Square. The Fair was a very creditable showing
of all kinds of produce, cattle, horses, and almost
every kind of exhibit that the Territory affords.
It would be impossible in limited space to give
details of all, but we shall try to mention the
ladies' work.
	In class A we find Mrs. S. K. Stanley received
silver medal for display of crackers; Mrs. S. H.
Burton for 25 lbs. butter, the special premium of
$25; Kate Mc'Allister, exhibit of bread, diploma;
Alice Fletcher, two loaves of bread, $5 00. Class
C. Mrs. P. Jennings, collection of plums,
diploma; Mrs. John Reading, floral designs, silver
medal; Miss A. Balto, disylay of pickles, diploma;
Mrs. M. Clawson, tomato catsup, $1.00 Class M.
Miss Caroline Monson, hand-knit shawl, $10;
socks, $5.00; leggings, $2.00; mittens, $2.00.
	In the exhibit of Fine Arts, Class P, we find
many of the contributors are ladies, as would be,
of course, naturally expected. Miss E. Jennings
(original) water color picture, silver medal;
(original) pencil drawing, silver medal, Miss Need-
ham; crayon drawings, silver medal, Miss Rich-
ards; colored photo, silver medal. Miss Kate
Wells; display hand-painted china, $5.00, Mrs.
J. H. Moyle; collection water color painting, gold
medal, Miss Gorlinski.
	Special premiums, oil painting, by lady under
twenty-one years; (toilet set, $25), Miss Bently;
specimen free-hand drawing, $15, Miss Gorlinski.
	Class S. Ladies' work. Sarah E. Karrick, pic-
tures, needlework and netting, $1.00; Mrs. E
Scrace, artificial flowers, $1.00; Lucy Gray, quilt
by girl under 14 years, diploma; Aunt Betsy
Free, 80 years, 3 pairs mitts, $1.00, pincushion,
$1.00; Edith Smith, pillow shams, $1.00, rick rack
work $1.00, needlework, $1.00; Annie Sheets,
handkerchief, $1.00; Mrs. John Moyle, netted

[Column 2]

curtains, $1.50; Mrs. Ann E. Coombs, fancy hair
work, $1.50; Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hyde, in the 78th
year of her age, and the only work of the kind she
had ever done, knit table cover, $1.00; Mary E.
Jensen, cotton bed-spread, home-made material,
$1.00, knitted curtain, home-made material, $1.50;
Mrs. E. Scrace, embroidered blanket for infant,
$1.00, skirt, $1.00; Mrs. Wm. Grosbeck, hand-
somest fire screen, $2.00, embroidered table scarf,
$2.00; Mrs. M. E. Westcott, Russian embroidery,
$1.00, Spanish embroidery, $2.00; Mrs. F. G.
Young, toilet set, 70 cts., lady's crocheted skirt,
$1.50, lady's fascination, $1.00; Mrs. S. J. Bement,
20 yds. rag carpet, $1.50; Alice Fletcher, door
mat, 50 cts., card basket, 50 cts.; Mrs. P. M.
Staines, handsomest embroidered table cover,
$5.00, handsomest painted scarf, 50 cts.; Mrs. E.
Grenig, patchwork quilt, diploma and $1.00; Mrs.
M. C. Kimball, knitted lace, $1.00, hearth rug, 75
cts.; Mrs. Allen Lvinsd, display of machine work,
diploma; Lena Branting, embroidered cushion, 
$1.00; Mrs. Kapukine, display of fancy work,
diploma; M. F. Costello, fancy work basket, $1.00;
Mrs. Ivins, quilt by lady over 70 years old. $2.00;
Mrs. B. S. Long, display fancy articles, diploma;
Persis L. Young, knit wool shawl, $1.50; Mrs. A.
Cummings, lamp shade, 50 cts.; Mrs. Wm. Carter,
child's afghan, $2.00; Mrs. Ferguson, Kensington
embroidery, $1.00; Mrs. V. P. Eldredge, home-
made boy's suit, $65 Domestic Sewing Machine,
special premium; Mrs. M. M. Howels, wax fruit,
diploma; Grace Taylor, home-made quilt, $10,
special premium; Bertha Parsons, needlework by
girl 15 years old or under, gold medal, special
premium; Mrs. P. M. Staines, mantle lambrequin,
$1.00; Mrs. Jennie Burton, 23 articles of fancy
work, $2.00; Kate Weiler, hand-knit skirt, home-
made material, special premium; M. Thomas,
display needlework, $1.00; Augusta McEwan,
oriental rug, diploma; Mrs. Ardelle Cummings,
home-made dress, $70 White Sewing Machine,
special premium; Emma West, hand-knit leg-
gings, home made material, $2.00, special pre-
mium; Annie Bird, hand-knit mittens, $2.00,
special premium; Rachel Tanner, 3 pair hand-knit
socks, $5.00, special premium, hand-knit shawl,
$10, special premium; Mrs. S. E. Karrick, em-
broidered slippers, $1.00; Alice Fletcher, worsted
hood, $1.00; Miss A. C. Robinson, darned knitted
curtains, $2.00; Mrs. Dr. Benedict, carriage
afghan, $2.00; Mrs. Burns, wool bedspread, home
material, $1.00; Mrs. Kapukine, display straw
goods, diploma; M. Mellen Howells, wax flowers,
$1.00; Mrs. V. Einarson, pictures cut with scis,
sors, diploma; Mrs. Ann Hawkins, patchwork
quilt, by a lady 83 years old, $2 00.


OBSTETRIC SCHOOL.

	The Summer class in midwifery held closing
exercises at Dr. E. R. Shipp's office, No. 16 Main
St., on the 22nd of September, when a number of
the ladies passed most satisfactory examinations,
and received certificates of study signed by Drs.
H. J. Richards and A. S. Bower. The names of 
the successful candidates are as follows: Mrs.
Adela Eardley and Mrs. M. J. Thompson, of 
Salt Lake City, Mrs. Dina Backman, of Hunts-
ville, Weber Co., Mrs. Fannie C. McQueen, of
Preston, Idaho, Mrs. Emma Smith, Cedar City,
Iron Co., and Miss Martha C. Hovey, Millville,
Cache Co.
	In the evening the students and teachers, with
a few chosen friends, enjoyed a feast of music,
social and intelligent converse, delicions ice
cream, cakes, fruits, and all the delicacies of the
season, parting at the close with mingled feelings
of satisfaction and regret, rejoicing over the cul-
mination of their hopes, after so many months of
earnest endeavor to prepare themselves for lives
of usefulness. But as "there is no rose without a
a thorn," neither is there one satisfactory experi-
ence without an accompanying regret. So as


these earnest workers bade adieu to each other—
"It may be for years and it may be forever," in
this life—a feeling of sadness crept in, despite the
melodious strains of "Home, Sweet Home," that
still lingered in our ears. But with the charac-
teristic fortitude of these women, thought reverted
to duty, and each mentally resolved to,

	Know it, love it, act it bravely,
		Wheresoe'er the path may lead;
	Thus obtaining greatest pleasure,
		And at last the riehest meed.

			E. R. S., M. D.


STAKE PRIMARY FAIR.

DEAR EDITOR:
	We felt a desire to state through the columns
of our valuable paper, the great success we had
in our Sevier Stake Primary Fairs this year.
	Last Spring, before paying our annual visit to
the different associations, we decided to hold
fairs and concerts in the several districts of the
Stake, in order that the children might have an
opportunity of visiting their Fair and seeing their
articles, which they had made. So, consequently,
while traveling around, we made our desires
known to presidents and children, which pleased
them very much, and we promised to see all of
them, if circumstances would permit.
	The first Fair was held in Glenwood, on Sept.
13th and 14th, with Richfield 1st and 2nd Ward,
Wallsburg and Vermillion. In the evening they
gave a concert. To name all the articles would
be impossible. The furniture from the boys was
excellent; a secretary table and clothes-horse
would have done credit to larger boys; also the
many articles of plain sewing, fancy work, knit-
ting, and a home-made straw hat, trimmed and
all by a small girl, showed wonderful industry on
the part of the girls—cakes and cooking of all
descriptions. We were treated to an operatta
by the 2nd Ward of Richfield (Grandma's Birth-
day), which we enjoyed very much.
	On the 17th we started for Salina, where, on the
18th, the Associations of Redmond, Aurora and
Salina were represented. Here also, we were
much surprised at the many articles made by
such small boys and girls; also the vegetables and
cooking were excellent, and such delicious fruits
we scarcely thought Sevier County could produce;
but as we were standing looking at a large
cabbage, our hearts were made sad, for we were
told that the little boy who raised it had died.
Tears started to our eyes, and we felt to say, "In
the midet of life we are in death." God bless his
poor mother. The concert in the evening was 
good, but we were somewhat disappointed in not
seeing more Primary children perform.
	From there we went to Elsinore, and on the 20th
the Associations of Monroe, Inverury, Anabella,
Joseph and Elsinore were represented. As we
entered the pleasant meeting house, and saw the
long rows of different kinds of work, both by boys
and girls, a large table to cakes, pies, butter,
honey, etc., we thought surely we were blessed,
and as we turned to the left and saw a handsome
rug, made by the Elsinore Primary Association
and presented to Sister Heppler, our feelings
could not be expressed, and tears of thankfulness
filled our eyes, and we thought how each little
heart beat with fond expectation as they plied the
needle. Oh, how much pleasure there is in trying
to make others happy. In the evening we were
treated to a very fine concert by the children of
the different wards, and an operatta ("Conquered
by Kindness"), from the Elsinore Ward, which
was splendid; also a touching address by a little
girl to Sister Heppler, which moistened many an
eye in the audience, and we felt to say, "God bless
the dear children!"
	From there we started for home: rested a few
days and then commenced our journey over the


hills. We expected to have a Fair in Koosharem,
but on account of measles they could not hold one
there, so we crossed the mountains, arriving at
Loa on the 26th.
	Next morning we were pleased to see Fremont,
East Loa and Loa represented in a very fine Fair.
We noticed, as in the others, some very good
yarn, which was spun by small girls, and four pairs
of stockings knit by a little girl from Fremont
Ward. The boys here had not such a display,
but it being rather a new feature, we presume the
next time they will do better. There was some
very good cooking; also fancy work and vege-
tables. Here they held their exercises in the
afternoon, because of the distance the children
had to come, and they were very good.
	The next morning we started for Thurber,
where, on the 29th, the Teasdale and Thurber
Wards were represented, and for two such small
settlements the Fair was indeed splendid. The
meeting house nicely decorated, and tables well
filled with some very praiseworthy work. Here,
also, they held their exercises in the afternoon,
which were very well done. In the evening we
attended a dance, as we also did at Loa, and
although not dancing much ourselves, yet the
spirit of sociability was marked; it reminded us of
the dances of long ago, when style was not so
much observed. 
	The next day being Sabbath we rested and at-
tended meeting. On Monday we started for home,
arriving on Tuesday night, feeling that we had
never enjoyed ourselves better on any former trip,
being so kindly entertained, both by parents and
children, and having such delightful weather;
both body and mind were refreshed.
	It would be impossible in this article to men-
tion all the beaatiful things we saw; suffice it to
say, our children are improving in this great Prim-
ary work more than we dream of.
	The Young Ladies also had a table from each
ward, and the excellent plain sewing, knitting,
spinning, cooking and fancy work could not have
been surpassed; home made hats, suits of men's
clothes, counterpanes, etc., and a large tippet
made of turkey feathers, was a novelty; it was as
handsome as fur. At Elsinore we saw a young
lady making thread lace.
	Great credit is due the officers of the Primary
and Young Ladies' Associations for the grand
success of the Stake Fairs this year.
		LOUISANNA HEPPLER,
		LUCY BELL,
		ETTA WRIGHT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

Y. L. M. I. A. SANPETE STAKE.
	(Quarterly conference of the Y. L. M. I. A.
held at Fountain Green, Sept. 15th, 1888,
Prest. Christina Willardsen presiding. Sing-
ing, "The youth of his land," etc. Prayer by
Bro. Guyman. Singing. Roll called; Stake
officers present, three, local officers, six.
Minutes of last conference were read and ap-
proved; also semi annual reports from nine As-
sociations, the other four having failed to send
any report.
	Sister Willardsen made opening remarks,
after which the following Associations were
represented, each officer making a few appro-
priate remarks: Mayfield, Prest. Hannah V.
Bunderson and Coun. Adelina Madsen; Foun-
tain Green, Coun. Eliza Bischoff and Mary
Yorgenson; Manti South Ward, Prest. Matilda
Alder.
	Stake Coun. Margaret Kjar spoke of the
necessity of the united efforts of the Y. L.
Said, "The Lord does not require any more at
our hands than we are able to do," etc., etc.
	Sister M. A. Hyde was the next speaker.
Spoke about her timidity when the Relief So-
ciety wys first organized. Encouraged the Y.

[Column 2]

L. to trust in the Lord when arising to speak.
"There is a lack of faith, but persevere and
you will succeed. Rather give brief lectures
than select readings, in your meetings. Keep
yourselves pure as angels." Spoke about
prayer, etc, etc.
	Sister Presendia L. Kimball addressed the
conference. Spoke of the privilege the young
ladies are enjoying. The importance of being
sealed for time and eternity. "Seek to gain a
testimony. Be kind to your mothers. Rathe
choose one of our uncouth boys for a husband
than one who is not of us. Be careful of your
speech; we do not know who are hearing us;
angels may be present." Sister Presendia said,
the Temple work was her chief delight. Al-
luded to the early persecutions in the Church.
	Sister Minerva Snow felt to bless the Y. L.
"Improve your mind and opportunities by
reading good books. The Lord will manifest
to you the things pertaining to the kingdom
Learn to be good housekeepers. "Do not blight
your life thoughtlessly by keeping company
with a young man who swears, smokes and
drinks, for he may not be worthy to go to the
Temple" Asked the blessings of God upon
all.
	Sister Sarah Petersen hoped we would treasure
up what we had heard, for it had been a day
of rejoicing. Spoke about fashion, and en-
couraged the culture of silk.
	Prest. C. Peterson had been edified by the
remarks of the sisters. "The work will fall
on the young people." Spoke of the necessity
of an education. "A wife should be a true
helpmeet to her husband." Dwelt at length
upon the preaching of the Gospel to the dead.
	(Sister Willardsen made closing remarks,
after which Sister Hyde spoke in tongues, Sis-
ter Kimball giving the interpretation.
	Conference adjourned for three months, to
meet at Spring City, Dec. 15. Singing,
"Joseph Smith's First Prayer." Benediction
by Bro. Barnsen:
	A Primary meeting was held at 2 p.m.,
Coun. Hannah Wickmann presiding, in the
absence of Stake Prest. Helena Madsen. Sing-
ing from the Primary Hymn Book. Prayer
by Bro. Anthon Sorensen. Singing.
	A semi-annual report of the Primary Asso-
ciation of Fountain Green was read by the
Secretary, Miss Clara Collard, after which a
very interesting programme of exercises, con-
sisting of songs, dialogues and recitations, was
rendered by the children; also a chapter on
Bible questions and answers, conducted by
Prest. Collard. A copy of the Primary Jour-
nal (Manuscript paper), was read by the Secre-
tary, followed by remarks from Sister Collard,
representative of the Association.
	Sisters Kimball and Snow addressed the
children. Made many enceuraging and
instructive remarks. Sister E. Allred, of
Spring City, also encouraged the children to
attend their meetings, etc., etc.
	Sister Wickmann made closing remarks.
Gave the children the kind regards of Sister
Madsen. Said, in regard to the Y. L., that it
was very desirable that the Associations should
procure blanks, and be more prompt in sending
reports, and correct reports only. Singing.
Benediction.
		HANNAH WICKMANN, Sec.

	MARICOPA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Condensed report of the past few weeks. We
have been having, as you may say, a spiritual
feast, owing to the presence of some of the
leading brethren from Salt Lake—Apostle
John Henry Smith and Bros. Burton, who
arrived here on the 19th of Sept.
	Sept. 15th and 16th was our Young Men's
Conference, 20th, Relief Society Conference,
21st, Primary in the forenoon and Y. L. in the

[Column 3]

afternoon, 22nd and 23rd, Quarterly Conference
of Maricopa Stake, enough to satisfy the most
spiritually minded amongst the Latter-day
Saints, but I have yet to hear the first remark
that evidenced weariness in the least; but all
felt well repaid for the time spent in the rich
spiritual feast provided for them, and the valu-
able instruction that was dealt out so freely to
all classes.
	Our Relief Society Conference was well at-
tended, Prest. Elizabeth G. McDonald presid-
ing: The different branches were well repre-
sented. After the usual exercises of singing
and prayer, the roll of officers was called, who
generally responded. Minutes of June confer-
ence were read and approved.
	Prest. McDonald made brief remarks; said
she had expected some of the visiting brethren,
also Prest. Charles Robson. Business of the
conference, reports, etc, were attended to in
their order.
	The presidents of the different branches
gave their reports, which showed a marked
improvement in the condition of the members,
which was very gratifying. One interesting
feature was the report from the Papage Ward,
which was recently organized, with Sister
Susan Savage, President, formerly First Coun.
to our Stake President—Sister Sarah Russell
now fills her place. It was certainly gratifying
to hear of the success they are meeting with
in that mission. She said they were desirous
of learning, but lacked the means necessary to
teach them, as fast as they were ready to be
taught. Wished the sisters to take an interest
in their poor Lamanite sisters; they desired to
be neat and clean, and dress as their white
sisters do, as far as they were able.
	Coun. Henry Rogers said: "The labors in
the Lamanite mission were great; prejudice
should be removed from our hearts in regard
to them. There is a great field open before the
members of this Stake, both brethren and sis-
ters; funds are needed; the small amount being
raised is not sufficient to meet the demands."
	Bishop Pomeroy felt that the Relief sisters
were a great help to the ward, especially to the
sick. Had listened with pleasure to the report
from the Papage Ward. "If we could just
spare a little more of our means for the sup-
port of this mission; the fifty cents per month
called for from the head of each family is not
much, but if all would pay, it would be con-
siderable; some few pay regular, while by far
the greater part are very careless in regard to
it." Spoke of the spirit of ridicule, which
some indulged in, and its pernicious effects
when carried too far.
	Bro. Allen had visited the Papage Ward,
and understood in a measure the difficulties
they have to encounter who labor there. "Let
us be filled with the spirit of charity towards
each other and be one in all things that the
peace and blessings of God may be with us.
	A Lamanite sister spoke a short time, which
was interpreted by Sister Susan Savage, the
substance of which was, that the white people
had taught them what was good, and it was
joy, to her heart;she felt that they were all her
sisters. She spoke with great vigor and power
and the hearers, could feel the spirit of inspira-
tion, which rested upon her, though not com-
prehending the language.
	The statistical and financial reports were then
read by the Secretary. Also the officers of
the stake, were presented to the conference and
were sustained unanimously.
	President McDonald had been gratified with
the reports given and remarks which had been
made. Hoped the sisters would be generous
and donate to the Lamanite mission, and as-
sist those who were laboring so faithfully in
their midst; said as the brethren had arrived,
she would not take up the time, but would be
pleased to hear from them.
	Apostle J. H. Smith, who came at rather


a late hour, felt considerably oppressed with
the heat, but was glad to meet with the sisters
of this Stake.  He then spoke at considerable
length of the duties and obligations resting
upon the Society; of the influence they might
wield over the youth, and how necessary that
it should be exerted for good. “The strength
and power of women is in the home circle;
they are therefore wisely excluded from public
duties.  their mission is to visit the sick, com-
fort those in trouble, etc.  Mothers, teach your
children self-reliance; there are many tempta-
tions around us in this life, that require instant
decision.  Learn to say yes and no, when
necessary, and do it with promptness and de-
cision.”
	Bro. Burton said their reception had been
so very warm, they failed to get here in time
to hear the reports.  Asked the question,
“Why was this Society organized?” "One
reason is, because the sisters have greater facil-
ties for finding out the wants of a family; her
usefulness is beyond calculation.  Their duties
were to assist the poor and unfortunate in
their midst, not hoard up their means for some
scheme to get a big name, as he had known
some to do."  Compared it to some of the
benevolent societies of the world, who solicit
means to purchase flannel shirts and clothing
to send to some poor benighted heathen in
India or some distant island, while they over-
look those who were starving or suffering right
at their own doors. “Husbands and wives
should be one in their thoughts and feelings.
Who so tender as the loving wife in times of
sickness?  The mothers are the best doctors
for the children; they can look in the very
heart of the disease.” In his experience he
had found the sisters a great help in his
ward.
	Prest. Charles Robson had been much inter-
ested in the good instruction which had been
given, and it was our duty to profit by it. Feft
that the remarks of Bro. Burton did not apply
to the sisters of this place, in regard to the
hoarding up of means, etc.  He was a witness
in a great many instances of the great care
which had been bestowed upon the sick in the
recent sickness which had visited Mesa, which
had been great; many of the sisters had
labored night and day, caring for those who
were in need of help, administering to their
comfort in every possible way.  None were al-
lowed to suffer through neglect, filling their
mission nobly as a Relief Society.  Made some
remarks in regard to the storing up of grain,
the best methods, etc.  Prayed God’s blessing
upon all those who desired the welfare of
Zion.   
	Prest. McDonald thanked the brethren for
the good instruction given; we should each
one strive to put it in practice in our lives.
Wished the mothers generally to attend the
Primary and Y. L. Conferences the following
day.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “How beauteous are their feet.” Bene-
diction by Apostle J. H. Smith.
			SARAH E. POMEROY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SENATOR CALL'S SPEECH.

	October 2nd, 1888, Senator Call, of Florida,
made the following speech upon the appropria-
tion of $80,000 for the Industrial Home in
this city, which is printed as reported in the 
Congressional Record:

	Mr. Call—I voted for this appropriation, not
only as a member of the Committee on Educa-
tion and Labor when it was first considered,
but also as a member of the Committee on Ap-
propriations and of the Senate. I objected 
to and would now object to and vote against
the legislation of this body persecuting these
people because they had certain religious views
[Column 2]
or views on the subject of religion which were
opposed to my own and to those of our people 
generally. I consider that in all that legisla-
tion we not only violated the Constitution, but 
we violated all the principles of civil liberty
upon which our institutions are founded. I 
have never changed that opinion. I think we 
went back eighteen hundred years in the pro-
gress of the world to the days of barbarism, to
use the courts, the civil power of the State, to 
compel by force a change in the opinions of 
men upon the subject of faith or of their reli-
gion.
	The Constitution says we shall take no action
whatever, exercise no power of government re-
specting the establishment of religion, and yet
the language of this bill is plain and direct,
offering inducements to leave the Mormon
Church. We have forgotten even that we 
have no power to legislate upon the subject of
a man's belief on the subject of religion,
whether it be true or untrue, and so in all this
legislation in which we have prepared a preju-
diced jury, in which we have prepared a preju-
diced judge, and selected him for the purpose 
of trying men of different opinions on the 
subject of religion from himself, we have viola-
ted not only the principles of the Constitution,
but we have violated all the institutions upon
which our present civilization is founded, and
we only need to go a few steps further to intro-
duce the power of the state to punish in direct 
terms a man for being a Methodist, or a 
Catholic, or a Presbyterian, or for holding
some different form of faith from that which
that dominant party in the state may profess.
	But, Mr. President, I approve the principle
of the legislation in this appropriation. If 
the Mormons are to be converted, or any other
set of people, it is to be in accordance with 
the divine religion of Christ, by persuasive
methods, and not by the exercise of power.
The legislation of this body has done more to 
perpetuate polygamy and establish it by mak-
ing martyrs of them than any and all other
causes and instrumentalities that could have
been brought together. 
	We live in an age in which the principles of 
Christian tolerance, the teachings of Christ
that the sword is not the power to create
opinion, to produce conviction, but it is argu-
ment, it is the preaching of the divine word, it
is the missionary, and not the power of the 
sword, and the power of the civil law. The
law by which these courts are established and
vested with unusual powers cannot be distin-
guished from the exercise of the power of the 
state in creating the Spanish Inquisition as an
arm of the civil power to compel observance
of a particular faith. The two are precisely
the same, and no argument can distinguish be-
tween the legislation of Congress in respect to 
the Mormons and the exercise of the civil 
power of the state in the shape of the Inquisi-
tion to suppress another religion or faith, either 
by delegating it to an eccleiastical body or 
exercising it directly.
	The constructions of law under which these
people have been tried and punished, if cor-
rectly reported, are a lasting shame and dis-
grace to our country and to the administration
of the law, and to ourselves for permitting it to 
continue. I have seen it stated by persons
said to be reputable in character and truthful,
that men and women have been convicted and
sentenced for unlawful cohabitation upon 
proof alone that they had contributed to the 
support of the families, the women and children 
toward whom they had at some former period
of time sustained the polygamous relation,
and that in other cases women had been sen-
tenced and imprisoned because they thought it
proper to refuse to disclose the name of the 
man towards whom they had sustained these
relations.
	But this legislation providing a home for the
[Column 3]
people who may be convinced that they are 
pursuing a wrong method of life and a criminal 
one, of providing a home for the women and 
children who may be left destitute in conse-
quence of a change of life, met the approval
of my judgment. It was in the line of per-
suasion, in the line of the only successful
policy, of the policy convincing the moral
sentiment which the Almighty has provided as 
the means of reformation for all men every-
where. It cannot be that you can change 
opinion, thought, by power, by oppression, by 
persecution, by the sword; by compelling men
to believe. This is the method of the stake,
the iron boot, the fearful implements of the 
cruelty and crime of the Dark Ages, and 
these we adopted in place of the gentle persua-
sion of the divine Christ.
	Mr. President, if the statements of the Sena-
tor from Main are true, it is the severest
arraignment of this body that could possibly
be made. Can it be that the Senate of the
United States and the House of Representa-
tives have sat here and allowed such a condi-
tion of things to exist as the instances de-
scribed by him represent? Is it true that peo-
ple convinced of the error of their lives and 
subjected to extreme cruelty, have been com-
pelled to remain in that condition for the want 
of even the ordinary necessaries of life? Is it 
true that children of twelve years of age are
 compelled to enter into polygamous and unlaw-
ful marriages, and the Senate and Senators
from Maine and Vermont have quietly re-
mained here providing no legislation but these 
denunciations of the Mormon people? If 
these statements be true, the evidence should
be obtained and prompt legislation provided
by which that evil should not exist a day longer
—the evil of a people honestly desiring to con-
form to the laws and yet unable to do it be-
cause the laws have provided no efficient meth-
ods for their protection and their subsistence.
	I am not ready to believe these statements.
I do not believe that polygamy, however
wrongful it is of necessity and in itself, de-
stroys the natural love and affection which the 
Divine Being has implanted in the human
heart, that charity can not exist where it pre-
vails. We derive our religion from a poly-
gamous people. I have been taught to rever-
ence the Scriptures of the Old and New Testa-
ment as a divine revelation and the characters 
they present as the highest types of humanity.
And while we believe with the confidence of 
knowledge that our Christianity is the true and 
higher civilization and the only true religion,
it is not necessary that we should halt and de-
nounce those who differ from us in faith and 
practice. I do not believe that either amongst 
the Mormons or any other people surrounded 
by the influence of modern civilization such 
cruelties would be permitted. 
	There are two sides to these statements; the 
Mormons deny them, their representative denies 
them in a speech delivered in the House of 
Representatives. Travelers and men of high
standing both in our own and foreign countries
profess to have examined carefully into this 
subject, and describe these people as a mild 
and truthful, industrious and virtuous people,
comparing very favorably in many respects
with the people of other countries, save only 
in the permission for polygamous life and re-
presenting that to be limited in practice. I 
do not know anything as to the truth of these
statements either on one side or the other, but
I am not willing to bear false witness against
any one or to condemn without full and fair
evidence on both sides.
	I have never seen a Mormon except those 
who have been here before the two Houses of 
Congress, and it is only just to say that these
had the appearance and manner of intelligent,
educated and kindly men. I have never known 
but one of their faith, and his family life in


[Column 1]
this community was in all respects like our
own, and his charities aud personal character-
istics such as gave him respectful consideration
and regard of excellent persons of our own
Christian faith who are themselves of unblem-
ished life and reputation. I am not willing,
therefore, that my vote for this appropriation
shall be placed upon the ground that these 
people are destitute of all the moral virtues
and all the kindly sympathies of humanity.
	I do not believe it. I vote for this appropria-
tion because I wish to provide every possible
agency to give full and free influence
to the persuasive power of the divine teachings
of Christ, and furnish the opportunity to all
who wish to leave the polygamous life to do so, 
basing the law to be enforced against the prac-
tice of polygamy amongst them as amongst
other people, in the spirit of fairness and
justice, in  gentleness and in mercy, and not
with the cruelty and violence of either the re-
ligious or the political bigot. I have more
faith in the persuasive power of the gospel of
Christ and the Christian ministry than in all
terms of the law, even when enforced with the 
thumb-screw and the stake, the dagger of St.
Bartholmew's massacre and Coligni's assasin,
or all the thousand cruelties which stain the 
pages of history, and which we are beginning
to repeat.
	Mr. President, we had better enact some
legislation in this direction. We had better
ascertain the facts. I am in favor of an ap-
propriation, however large it may be, to pro-
vide a home and substance and employment
for any of these people who may be convinced
that their methods of life are improper and un-
lawful. Opposed as I am to persecution and
disgraceful persecution, if I had the power I
would remove the judges and the civil officers
who have been guilty of crime themselves, if
the statements I have read be true, of a distor-
tion of the law by the severity of the punish-
ment of these peeple. I read an instance in 
the memorial presented in aid of this very 
bill, of a woman and a child, a woman of 
eighteen years of age, I think, with an infant
of three months, confined in the jail, and that
infant dying of measles, because she would not
reveal the name of the man with whom she 
had been led into this improper relation, suffer-
ing and dying, the memorial states, and there
was no charity, no kindness from the judge or
the marshal or any one towards this poor
young mother confined there like a common 
felon, a disgrace to civilization and a disgrace
to humanity and fo those who have the power
to correct it. 
	But, Mr. President, the question here is
whether the public money shall be placed in
private hands with no responsibility except by
a bond for carrying out these purposes. In
the English law it was found necessary to pro-
vide a system of visitation, even of private
foundations of charity. It was found that the
abuses which followed these institutions in
private hands were so great as to pervert and
defeat the purposes of the founder until a
power of visitation was exercised by the courts
and prescribed by the statutes.
	Why, then, should we depart from that
course and vest the power of disbursement of
this money in the hands of these individuals
without any authority on the part of the
Treasury officials to supervise or direct it? It
seems to me that the answer is clear to those
who sincerely desire the conversion of these
people, who desire to furnish protection to 
those who wish to leave, who recognize the
power of the Christian religion (which the
legislation upon this subject denies) to convert
and persuade those people who believe in
Christ and Christ's religion and not in the per-
secutions which this body and the other House
have established against these people. Those
who believe as I do in Christ's commission,

[Column 2]
"Go ye into all nations and preach the Gos-
pel," and who desire the success of this charity
and to protect these people when the power of
the Christian faith may convert them, as it
will convert them, would have the Government 
retain in its control over the expenditure of
this money.
	If you choose to give this building or the
use of it to this charitable organization, I shall
have no objection, and should support a pro-
vision of that kind, provided they exercise
that charity in the spirit of love and not of de-
nunciation, not of hatred and bitter reproach;
provided they remember that the evil of
which they complain is not now for the first
time known to the civilization of the world, 
that the Christian religion has been fighting it
successfully for eighteen hundred years, not
with the sword and the stake, but with the
teachings of Christ and that the religion
of Christ alone has reclaimed hundreds 
of missions of people from the practice
of the greater part of the world who have 
lived in polygamy and with whom it has been
an institution—England and those who derive
their civilization from her.
	Mr. President, there has been too much of
political persecution in this matter, and too
little of Christian faith and Christian practice.
Let the government appropriate its money, let
it build this house, let it make ample provis-
ion for all who shall be convinced that the
Christian system is the true one, and make it
ample for the industrial education and subsist-
ence of these people for a reasonable time,
that this experiment may be promptly tried,
but let it be done by the government and 
under the supervision of bonded officers of the
government, and then, if we choose, give the
management of this charity to these people 
whose purposes, I have no reason to doubt, are
correct, and those of philanthropy and of good
to mankind; but let it be required to be done
in the spirit and according to the precepts of
the religion of Christ.
	*	As far as I am concerned I have no 
particular objection to the provision passing
in the shape in which the Senator from Maine
desires it; but I wish to state that I did not say
there was no precedent for such an appropria-
tion of money. I say it is not a custom of the
government, I say it is not a good, wise public
policy. It has been done in the District of 
Columbia, which is under the immediate super-
vision of Congress. There is some difference 
between this district and a remote Territory,
which has a Territorial government and an au-
tonomy of its own, even though it be subject
to the supervising authority of Congress. But
be it a precedent or not, except in the case of
an established charity, it is a bad precedent to
appropriate a sum of money and put it in the
hands of private individuals for the construc-
tion of buildings for a charity. The plan
should be prescribed by the government.
	Mr. Salisbury, In whom is the title?
	Mr. Call. The title, I understand, is in this
corporation; but it is proposed to place the title
in the government if so desired. Be that as
it may, it is surely not a wise public policy,
without limitations and conditions, to put a
large sum of money in the hands of any num-
ber of persons or any corporation, however
meritorious they may be.
	The point in this matter is that the advance-
ment of this work, this charity, the rescuing
and protection of these poeple, the continuance
of the charitable purposes of this corporation
in its highest possible efficiency, granting all
that is said for it, has nothing whatever to do
with the disbursement of the money. The
mere hands through which this money 
shall pass are immaterial to the pur-
poses of charity. If the building is con-
structed with proper speed and diligence,
and in a proper style and with proper conven-

[Column 3]
iences, that is what the charity demands. It is
not required that the money shall be disbursed 
by A or B or any one else. The singular part
of it is, that it is so insisted, not for the effi-
ciency of the charity, but for the disbursement
of the money by particular individuals, and
the proposition manifestly has no connection
whatever with the purposes of the charity. I
myself am in favor of the charity, and I have 
no great objection to the provision passing in
this shape.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Michigan women voted by thousands at the
school elections at Michigan last week. Many
were elected to office.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions, of Respect to the memory of Sister Martha
Ann Waite Owens, born at Lincolnshire, England,on the 
2nd of March, 1843; Was baptized when eight years old.
Emigrated to Utah in 1853, Died Aug. 8th, 1888. 
	Whereas, the Lord has been pleased to call Sister 
Martha Ann Waite Owens from our midst, a member of
the Relief Society of Willard and Ass't Secretary of the
same, 	
	Resolved, by the Relief Society of Willard, That we  
hold her name in remembrance, inasmuch as she was a 
faithful Latter-day Saints, a fond wife and mother.
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to her husband 
and family.
	Resolved, That we send a copy of these Resolutions to 
her husband and family; also a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT for publicatation, and that a copy be put on the 
Relief Society record book.	
					MARX ANN HUBBARD, Prest., 
					BETHIAH WELLS, Sec.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM 
SALT LAKE CITY,
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies 
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’, Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS 
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 900, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
