VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1889.	NO. 19.


[For the EXPONENT.]

TRUST IN THE LORD.

Thou mourning soul, bowed down with grief,
	Oppressed, bereaved and worn,
There is a source of sure relief
	For hearts by sorrow worn.
Our God is just and will repay
	The smiter and the smit;
He will wipe all thy tears away,
	And heal thee every whit.

It needs must be offences come
	To overflow the cup,
And prove the justice of the doom
	The wicked filleth up.
But thou, offend not; keep thy feet,
	Though bleeding, in the way,
The straight and narrow way, and sweet
	Will be thy coming day.

If God hath chosen thee for one
	His name to glorify,
To prove that justice will be done
	Offenders proud and high;
Shouldst thou repine, unwilling be,
	And weary Him with cries?
May, they who bravely bear will be
	Most lovely in His eyes.

Foretaste thy joy and lighten woe,
	By yielding all to Him;
"He chasteneth whom He loveth!" oh,
	That faith should e'er be dim!
No human love or mortal joy
	Can faintly shadow this,
Which seeks to cleanse thee from alloy
	And give thee endless bliss.

Oh, trust in Him with boundless trust,
	With faith unwavering go
Where'er He leads, though in the dust
	Thy heart be stricken low;
Take up thy cross and follow Him,
	Though seas above thee roll;
'Mid sunless depths or deserts dim
	He'll not forsake thy soul.

Oh, rest assured whate'er thy lot,
	Though lone, obscure, and low,
By Him thou never art forgot
	In welfare or in woe.
No tears of thine shall fall unseen,
	No sigh exhale unheard;
His love, thee and thy griefs between,
	Takes note of every word.

And in His own swift circling time,
	That soon will roll away,
He'll bring thy wounds sweet healing balm,
	And crown thy night with day.
Be not in haste, do not complain,
	Nor doubt His loving care,
But trust His word and bless His name,
	And yield not to despair.

For swiftly comes the fated hour,
	 The hour of joy and doom,
When broken falls the rod of power
	Which wrought thy days of gloom.
And grief's pale cheeks shall bloom with joy,
	The pure, the deep, the true.
Unspeakable without alloy—
	Take heart, it comes for your.

		LU DALTON.


[Column 1]

YOUNG WOMEN.

	What young women do, and do not do.
What their mothers and grandmothers used to
do. What the mothers of the future are likely
to do, and to be. These are fruitful topics of

[Column 2]

conversation and criticism, and form the
groundwork of many an article in the journals
of the day. We are all very apt to indulge
somewhat freely in the worship of the past, and
"auld lang syne" somehow touches tenderly a
fine-strung chord in the human heart; but we
who are living and acting now, have really
very much more occasion to make the present
beautiful and attractive, than to gaze back-
ward and rehearse over the sayings and doings
of other periods, and long after the past. The
work of women in that age was a part of the
time, and a natural result of their surround-
ings and the state of society in which they
lived. And ours to day is perhaps a step in
advance and what we are doing pertains to the
present and will have its bearing upon those
who are to come after us, the next generation,
as the doings of the past has upon us; strange
if our posterity should glance backward with
the same idol-worship of the age in which we
are living, and with the workings of which
some of us seem to be so dissatisfied. But this
is said to be an age of idleness for women,
comparatively speaking, there are so many
facilities for lightening labor; and even our
babies now-a-days not only have cradles but
carriages, whereas but a short time ago we had
always to carry them in our arms.
	A long time ago in the days of our grand-
mothers every young lady was expected to
know how to card and spin, if not to weave, in
addition to her knowledge of all other house-
hold employments; and knitting was an indis-
pensable requisite in any young girl's qualifi-
cations; it was the work that could always be
relied upon in case all other work gave out.
In fact it became proverbial, that no young
woman should marry until she had a pillow-
case full of stockings of her own knitting, and
usually of her own spinning. Bed and table
linen of one's own work were also essential.
Spinning flax on a little wheel was considered
in those primitive days the finishing off of a
young lady's domestic accomplishments, and
it is really an industry requiring skill. I well
remember my grandfather telling me, "Ladies
spun on the little wheel" (with great emphasis
on the word ladies). I knew well what he
meant, although everything of the kind was
done in factories then; I had often seen the
fuuny little wheel in the garret, and been told
it belonged to my great-grandmother, and I
remember distinctly, when a little girl, of
trying to convert it into a rocking horse, fancy-
ing the handful of flax which still clung, to the
spindle was the mane. If I had not decided
to write about what women do, and don't do,
I could tell you a long story about other inter-
esting curiosities in that same garret, where I
played with the little wheel for a horse, on
which my foremothers had spun the very linen
with which the family closets were filled; but
withal I will say, that there were many relics
of former days there, that gave me a particular
love for garrets, which clings to me still.
Now-a-days such things go to a second-hand
store, a term I never really appreciated the
practical meaning of until of late. But we
will go back to the spinning and leave the
garrets for another time. Our forefathers
thought there could not be a more beautiful
picture than a pretty woman, sitting carelessly
at the little wheel spinning flax; drawing out
the shining threads with taper fingers, while
the dainty foot in open-work stocking and old-
fashioned sandal, showing to the best advan-

[Column 3]

tage, rested on the treadle. I have heard it
averred, that many a bashful, sunbrowned
sweetheart, has been induced to declare his
love and urge his suit, at sight of his inamorata
spinning flax at the little wheel. More pro-
posals of marriage have likely been made be-
side the spinning wheel than at the piano.
Perhaps it is owing to the industrial tone of
the occupation, for matrimony savors of labor;
men are not apt to look upon the piano as a 
desirable article of household furniture, or as
any addition to domestic happiness; albeit
many women earn their own living, hardly
enough too, by teaching instrumental music;
and there are men who barely tolerate a piano
in the house, because wife or daughter has en-
treated him to buy it. I have heard men
make bold to say, even in this age of culture,
they preferred to see women play upon the
washboard; this is the class of men I ween who
would use the money earned by the industrious,
devoted wife to purchase cigars and tobacco.
But lest we wander away from the theme of
spinning, and spin out a long dissertation upon
men and women's opinions of each other, we
will go back to the spinning wheel, and the
every day pursuits of women; say what we
will about the beauty and utility of the distaff
and the spindle, this age of progress has left
them far behind in the dim distance, and they
only live in the recollection of our young ladies
in connection with poetic legends and love-
stories. Many other once essential household
labors are supplanted by the mechanical work
of machinery of modern invention; until one
wonders comparing the past with the present,
how it is there is so much still left for woman's
busy fingers to do, and that there seems to be
so little time in which to perform the work of
the household.
	Well, as young women can't spin, because
forsooth there is no spinning to do, and as
knitting is out of date, and sewing done up in
a hurry on a machine, instead of wearing away
one's self at it till midnight and past, women
ought to have plenty of time to read, and go
to bed early. It used to be common for the
mother to do all the family sewing, and darn-
ing, and mending after papa and the children
were in bed; this does not date far back; but
there is little need of it now, and women, mo-
thers especially, may save the vitality which
used to be expended in fine hemming and
stitching, etc., and it will possibly be a benefit
to the future race. Not that one should be
idle, but not over-worked as women necessarily
have been in former times. Common sense
tells us that young women, or we will say
mothers, cannot hold out to work so many
more hours than the day laborer; and yet this
has often been the case. What is the result—
the mother breaks down, grows prematurely
old, or succumbs altogether, leaving her family
to grow up without her tender, loving care,
and the world calls it "a dispensation of divine
providence." Let us be thankful, that some
of the burdens of woman's life have been re-
lieved by the spirit of progress; I am sure we
have great reason to be. Who of us for in-
stance, and more especially our daughters
would like to cook over a fireplace as we did
in the early days in Utah? Methinks I see
some of those girls looking back thirty, or
even twenty-five years, and see their mothers
piling coals on the bake kettle with baby (per-
chance the identical young lady) in her arms.
Why it actually makes me all in a heat to think


of it. That day is past, and now what? well
what! one taken up from another century and
set down in this, would wonder how we occu-
pied our time; and yet we hear women every
day saying, “I have so much to do.” Well
one’s needs or wants increase as civilization
reaches a higher state, and all that implies
work to keep up with the times; still where we
used to have to scrub floors, we now have car-
pets, and if we wear more ruffles and flounces,
we do not do half of the embroidering in lace,
muslin and linen that our grandmothers did.
We bake more cakes, and make more pastry,
which is a very great drawback, for as a com-
pensation, we get peevish and dyspeptic, and
low-spirited in proportion. We ought to eat
our fruit, without pastry to make us sick, and
dispense with rich cakes altogether either for
ourselves or company. That would be one
step towards economy and expense, and we
should have so much the more time to read, in-
struct our children or exchange friendly inter-
course with our neighbors.
	In commencing this article I said, what young
women do, and do not do; that was the first
paragraph, and the last to be woven into the
chapter. Well then it seems to me, that the
young ladies of today do not appreciate their
blessings. Not that I think they mean to be
at all ungrateful, but their surroundings are so
pleasant, and their associations so happy, in
contrast with the past, that it is scarcely to be
credited as real. The opportunities for gain-
ing knowledge, the facilities for culture, the
many comforts and embellishments for the
home, that beautify and give charm to domestic
and social life, all these in detail add to their
cup of blessings; and if they are wise and lay
up treasures of wisdom and understanding,
now in the days of their youth, they may be
much better qualified to fill the responsible
positions of wife and mother, than those who
have had so few advantages, and so many
hardships to endure. Young ladies, believe
me, you have work to do, which will require
active exertion of brain and muscle; and
though you will perhaps not have the oppor-
tunity of spinning on the little wheel, you
will find needful work lying all around you.
Mothers ought to devote a goodly portion of
the time in teaching their children by the
fireside and in my soul I pity that woman,
who thinks the work, which must be left un-
done when she is gone, of more consequence
than the moral or spiritual lessons she is capa-
ble of imparting to her offspring. The young
women of to-day are well informed in regard
to the duties of life. If they act according to
the light which has been given to them, there
is scarcely anything in the power of women to
do, but they may succeed in accomplishing.
	This is designated an age of refinement and
culture; and a school education is attainable
by all; certainly the superior advantages en-
joyed must have a tendency to lift up and
elevate, unless there is correspondingly strong
counteracting influences, detracting and bear-
ing downwards. Whatever forces of this
kind may exist they ought not to affect in
any great degree the Latter-day Saints, whose
principles of faith, and knowledge of the truths
of heaven, should lift them above the seducing
allurements that hinder the onward and upward
progression of society in the world. Then
what conclusion shall we arrive at? Why,
consequently that the condition of woman to-
day is much better in every respect than in
the days of our grandmothers, and that the
women of the future, will, judging from the
outlook of the present, far surpass us who are
now upon the stage of action. Woman is
learning to think, act and reason for herself,
not to hang her conscience on another, or pin
her faith to the sleeve of any one. Young
girls are beginning to comprehend that em-
ployment, suited to the capacity of woman by
which she may earn an independent living, is
much more womanly, than depending upon
some male relative for maintenance and sup-
port. Besides many women are suddenly left
helpless and alone, by the death of husband or
father, and how desolate under such circum-
stances will she be, who has never been taught
self-dependence. This is one of the lessons
thoughtful women are learning today, and it
will be a legacy better than wealth, for it will
not take wings and fly away. Then success to
the young lady of the age, if she cannot spin
flax at the little wheel, she can make a far
prettier picture, with her intelligent face, when
she sits with the crown of motherhood upon
her thoughtful brow, caressing her first baby.
AUNT EM.


.	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIANTHI. 
	We are baptized for the dead, and believe 
that they in the spirit world take up their 
work among their spirit companions, just as 
we do here.  I have been led to wonder if
there is a spirit form of baptism there, answer-
ing to the real ordinance here, by the follow-
ing dream:  
	In 1885, in Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah, 
where I now live, I dreamed of walking in 
another country, into a city softly overshadowed 
by a golden light like a delicate mist, most 
beautiful and soothing to the eyes.  Quiet as a 
Sabbath, I could see groups of persons in fair 
attire going all in one direction.  The doors of 
dwellings stood ajar, their inmates all gone out.  
After wandering awhile through the peaceful 
streets I ventured to enter a house to rest, and 
soliloquized:  "I am a stranger here, knowing 
no one in all this city."  Thus reflecting I 
turned to survey the room, and observed a 
large portrait of a man, the picture surrounded 
by delicate sketches illustrating the labors of 
his life; underneath was the name LIANTHI; 
and under this the inscription, "A little one in 
the kingdom of heaven."  The five groups 
each described a missionary preaching the 
Gospel; also performing the ordinance of bap-
tism in clear streams, while thousands waited 
upon the banks.  I recognized these colored 
races as the North American Indians, and the 
white people as the long line of his own rela-
tives who had passed into the spirit world be-
fore him. 
	I gazed upon the solemn, pathetic and elo-
quent face of the preacher, his black hair in 
loose curls upon his shoulders, his right hand 
gracefully uplifted, the forefinger pointing up-
ward, and those eyes glowing and tremulous 
with power, and charmed, enthralled with bliss-
ful fervor I asked myself, "Who is he?  I know 
that somewhere I have met that soul!"
	When I awoke the dream returned and like 
a flash came the recollection of my great-
grandfather, who had a Puritan father and 
Penobscot mother, and after his Christian edu-
cation claimed that he was divinely called to 
preach the teachings of Jesus Christ.  Seventy 
years he followed his mission, heard of Mor-
monism, but died without receiving his desire
to investigate it.  Then a work was done for 
him in the house of the Lord, and I doubt not 
he took up his labor in the spirit world, for the 
face of Lianthi in my dream was the same that 
looks forth from the canvas in the old home—
the face of the Rev. John Harriman.  
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


ITEMS FROM NEW MEXICO. 
EDITOR EXPONENT:  
	The Relief Society of this place was organ-
ized four years ago, since which time we have 
been laboring in a quiet way, doing all the 
good we can, visiting the sick, comforting those 
who mourn, and administering to the needy.


Monday, Jan. 21st, we held a special meeting, 
and were blessed with the wise and fatherly 
counsel of Coun. E. N. Freeman, of the Stake 
Presidency, on our duties as wives and mothers 
in Israel, and as members of the Relief Society;
also in regard to teaching our daughters the 
laws of health.  
	Bishop J. R. McNeil spoke of the duties 
resting upon the sisters in visiting and adminis-
tering to the sick; also many other duties. 
	We had a time of rejoicing; the Spirit of the 
Lord was with us, and we felt strengthened for 
our labors in this portion of the Lord's vineyard.  
	We are surrounded by the red men of the
forest, and our every action is closely scanned 
and criticised by them.  They compare our 
actions with those of other people with whom 
they come in contact, and we feel that as sis-
ters we are doing a good work among them by 
our home example.  
	Ever praying for the spread of the Gospel 
and the redemption of the tribe of Israel, I am, 
	Your sister in the Gospel, 
	PHEBE A. MCNEIL, PREST.


A PRIMARY SURPRISE. 
	On Friday, the 18th of January, 1889, the 
Primary children of the 6th Ward of Logan 
had a very pleasant time.  Their President, 
Sister Emma Pike, would be fifty years old on 
Sunday the 20th; Friday being their usual 
meeting day, they desired “to take time by the
forelock.” On entering the house she was 
greeted with a sweet song from the children
—“Gather them into the fold.” Prayer was 
offered by Fred Turner, a Primary boy.  
	In the center of the meeting house a table 
was spread with the good things usual to make 
a picnic, and in the center of it a large birth-
day cake was placed, with the name and age 
of our President on it, made by some of the 
older girls of the Primary Association.  Our 
acting Bishop, Fred Turner, also our Primary 
Stake President, Sister Jane Molen, and her 
Second Counselor, Sister Mattie A. Hanson, 
the Relief Society President, Sister Adeline 
Barber, and also the President of the Relief 
Society of the ward, Sister Lizzie Townsend 
and many others had assembled to greet Sister 
Pike.
	The children gave their usual exercises; a 
few of the oldest girls formed a committee and 
presented some beautiful window curtains to 
Sister Pike; a handsome book, entitled, “The
Light of the Nations,” was given by Master 
Fred Turner, and another pretty gift by a little 
boy to whom Sister Pike had administered in
sickness; also a beautiful book of winter scenes 
and a sweet poem composed for the occasion 
by Sister Mattie A. Hanson; a beautiful crazy 
patch pin-cushion, with Sister Pike’s name on 
it, was given to her by Ragna J. Johnson, the 
Secretary, and many other presents were given 
to her, after which a lunch was partaken of by 
all.  
	Many pleasant and cheering things were 
said to our President, calculated to strengthen 
her for the Primary labors, and give her cour-
age to meet all the duties and vicissitudes of 
life.  May she live long to continue her labors 
among the young, and have strength of mind
and body to fulfil all of life’s duties, is the 
wish of the officers and children of the 6th 
Ward of Logan.  
	We had a very pleasant entertainment on 
Friday night, Feb. 17th, in the 6th Ward
meeting house.  The house was well filled with 
people, and the children did their parts well, 
and it was really a success.
	RAGNA J. JOHNSON.


Olive Schreiner in “The Story of an Afri-
can Farm” says there was never a man who 
said one word for woman but he said two for 
man, and three for the whole human race.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


COME, SING TO ME.  
BY ANNIE M. BEACH. 
Come, sing to me, my soul is sad, 
Yet music sweet may soothe the pain, 
Waking up memories—warm and glad,—
Of joys that may be mine again.

Sing not to-day of broken ties,  
Sing not of blighted hopes, sweet friend, 
I would not hear of sweet good-bye's
For sorrow's dawning, but its end.  

The song shall be of faithful hearts, 
That hoped and prayed thro' sorrow's night, 
Till, suddenly, the grief-cloud parts, 
Before a burst of joy's glad light.  

And if there come a tide of tears, 
'Twill waft this weariness away, 
Which resteth like a cloud of years
Upon my doubting heart to-day.  

Then, after sleep hath sealed my eyes, 
And I awake, 'twill all be o'er, 
The sunshine of my soul will rise 
Unclouded, as it was before.  

How strange we are!—the grief's to-day
That o'er the heart have coldly crept,
To-morrow, we may cast away, 
Smiling as though we had not wept.  

It must be so! The joy and pain 
Making life's shadow and its light, 
But when the Better Land we gain, 
We know "there shall be no more night." 

Cambria, N. Y.


MEMORIAL 
DEDICATED TO MRS. JOSEPH BURROWS. 
All Nature's laws are perfect, 
And God's will always just. 
That these are true, and will be, 
Though numbered with the dust, 
Was thought by him that's left us, 
And gone to nobler spheres, 
His presence has bereft us, 
Not to meet again for years.  

A form of youth and vigor 
Was a boon he claimed his own, 
And little did he ponder 
O'er the death that called him home; 
But whom God loves He chastens: 
Let these words comfort give, 
When one from us He hastens, 
'Tis but to bid him live.

The mind oft fails conceiving 
The depths of God's design, 
The grandeur of His purpose 
Put forth in every clime; 
Unless, perchance, enlightened
By His all-matchless aid,
Then intellect is brightened 
And ignorance is stayed.  

Though wisdom is not seen 
By us in mortal guise, 
In taking this our brother 
Whose form before us lies, 
Whose kindness, mirth and favor 
Have not been spent in vain, 
But as a record, goes before, 
His eternal bliss to gain.  

Then fear not for his future, 
No more than for his past, 
Though life be rough and thorny, 
He's reached his goal at last.  
Let's live a good life also, 
Then we may, too, I trust, 
Meet him, with all our loved ones, 
In the regions of the just. 
R. R. I., JR. 
February 14, 1889,


ST. PAUL’S WIFE.

Under the above heading The Victoria Daily
Times; Victoria, B.C. publishes what it styles
“A Piquant Debate by the Ladies,” from
which we clip the following, believing our
readers will be interested in the subject and 
amused with the way the matter is handled.
It is certainly a novel theme for discussion.
The debate was held in the Methodist Church
in that city, the Rev. Mr. Starr presiding as
master of ceremonies. Six ladies took part in
the discussion Tuesday evening Jan. 22nd. The 
matter was introduced thus: “Resolved that
St. Paul was a married man.”—ED
	The debate was opened by Mrs. Grant, who
stated her case clearly and concisely. She
held that only as a married man could St.
Paul have attained the celebrity he did in
church matters. She attributed Mrs. St.
Paul’s inconspicuousness to her attention to
home matters, which left no doubt in the minds
of the audience as to her partiality for house-
keeping. The speaker further referred from
the general character of Paul’s writings that he
was too susceptible a man to have remained
single; because it was a custom among the Jews 
to marry at an early age, particularly the mem-
bers of the Sanhedrim, an assembly to which
Paul belonged. The fact that Paul gave no
particulars was of no consequence as showing
him to be a single man. Common modesty
forbid, that unless his wife was an active worker
among the missions, she should remain in the
background. 
	Mrs. Starr, who represented the “opposi-
tion,” as the Chairman styled it, next took the
floor. This lady gave several anecdotes illus-
trative of the points she wished to make, and
she also flatly asserted that it was not incum-
bent on the members of the Sanhedrim to enter
upon the conjugal relations. Again it was not
so clear that Paul was a member of the San-
hedrim, inasmuch as he was probably too
young a man to be admitted to that august
body. He had witnessed Stephen’s death as a
young man of 28, and was converted shortly
afterward. It was not at all probable that a
man so young would have taken a prominent
part in the deliberations of the Jews. Having
thus established a doubt as to Paul’s member-
ship of the Sanhedrim and therefore leaving
the inference that he was under no obligations
to marry, she proceeded to say that the best
evidence of Paul’s single blessedness was his
reticence in reference to Mrs. St. Paul. It was
hardly credible to suppose that if he had been
a married man he would have remained so
profoundly silent on the matter. Why should
Paul want a wife? said the fair speaker, when 
being a tent-maker by profession he could do
all his own mending and darning. Married,
forsooth, St. Paul was a crusty old bach. Mrs.
Starr then thanked The Times for its advocacy
of her side of the case and quit the floor for
Mrs. Chase.
	Mrs. Chase gave a pen portrait of Mrs. Saul,
as that must have been Paul’s name at the 
period of his matrimonial venture, describing
her as fair with dark eyes. She said that Paul’s
recommendation that women should not talk
was all owing to the fact of Mrs. Paul being a 
voluble conversationalist, and of having given
her liege lord an overdose. Nobody but a man
who was married, or had been married, would
ever have known whether women should hold
their tongues or not. Mrs. Chase was further
of the opinion that Paul’s silence in the matter
of his wife was owing to his being a widower
during the period of his ministry. Then again, 
as regards kissing, a feature frequently alluded
to by the Apostle; how should he know any-
thing about it unless he had been a married
man? Mrs. Chase concluded her remarks with
a eulogy on the man as the noblest and best of
all the disciples. 

[Column 2]
Miss Lazenby was the next speaker. This
lady said that she had always been an admirer
of St. Paul, and that had she been a contempor-
ary of his, it is doubtful if he had remained a
bachelor, at least not with her consent. In this
speaker’s preliminary remarks, we had promise
of some witty revelations, but she did not con-
tinue as long as the audience would have
liked.
	Mrs. Adams, for the affirmative, assumed
that St. Paul could not have given so much 
good advice  unless he had been a married man.
The fact that he never alluded to his family 
was no sign of bachelorhood. Mr. Moody nor
any of the divines for that matter, were in the
habit of interlarding their sermons with remi-
niscences of their married experiences.
	Mrs. Gardner alluding to the “thorn in the
flesh,” attributed it to St. Paul’s fecundity of 
speech, a characteristic originating primarily
in a predisposition to epilepsy. Poets and all
men addicted to broad scope of language were
more or less epileptic; ‘twas an infallible sign
of genius. It was not reasonable to suppose
that St. Paul would allude to woman in op-
probrious terms, and even if he had it was no
sign of his having been a married man. A
woman a thorn in the flesh, said the speaker;
St. Paul wasn’t built that way. If he had been
 a married man he never would have offered
any advice to women, because he must have
known they would disregard it. Did you ever
know of a bachelor, said the lady, with a toss
of her pretty head, who was not always talk-
ing about women. 
	Mrs. Grant then closed for the affirmative,
recapitulating and quoting old authors in sup-
port of her argument. 
	Mrs. Starr followed for the “opposition,” and
in rebuttal of the remark that St. Paul must
have been a married man to be familiar with
kissing, said he was a funny bachelor who was 
ignorant of the art of osculation, (blushing
among the bachelors.) And so ended the 
famous controversy, a controversy which was
awarded to the negatives by a bare majority.
	Our reporter has listened to a good many
debates, and he has heard a number of women 
talk, but this was the most characteristic affair
he ever witnessed—womanish to the backbone,
piquant, and developing considerable research.
St. Paul is a very grave subject to be handled
lightly, and doubtless were he a witness to the
forensic combat last night over his matrimonial
status, he would wish to assume the body once
more and relieve “the thorn of the flesh busi-
ness,” of the ambigity it is said to possess.
The preceeding, however, with all its tendency
to levity, is not without good points. Research
is stimulated and men who have grown rusty
in biblical matters resurrect their testaments
and refresh their memories. On the whole the
effort was worth listening to, and that it was
appreciated was made manifest by the applause
of the audience. One thing is certain, the 
ladies show a quickness of wit and a noncha-
lance which made our reporter feel for his sex.


Four new States would add greatly to 
Fourth of July celebrations, because four more 
girls would be needed to represent the galaxy 
of States in the gorgeously decorated wagons 
in patriotic parades.  
	The woman suffrage bill has been defeated 
in the Dakota House of Representatives, by a 
vote of 17 to 28  One potent reason was the 
fear that the establishment of woman suffrage 
might make Congress less inclined to admit Da-
kota as a State.  The men of Dakota were so 
eagerly anxious to obtain full political rights 
for themselves that they disregarded the just 
claims of their wives and sisters.  It is a pity.
—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	-	Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy, one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.		 
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	MARCH 1, 1889.


[Column 1]
﻿FREE FROM EXILE AND IMPRISON-
MENT. 
	On Thursday, February 21, Apostle George Q.
Cannon was released from the Penitentiary, where
he had been since September 17, 1888.  His time
having expired, he came forth a free man once
more, and his right of citizenship restored, a par-
don having been granted him from President
Cleveland. It is gratifying to him, certainly, and
to all the Latter-day Saints, that he received the
pardon in time to be valuable, and that he has his
freedom once more, and can be among the people,
counseling, encouraging, instructing and preach-
ing.
	The morning of the 22nd Prest. Woodruff
and Elder Geo. Q. Cannon were serenaded in the
President’s Office by the Tabernacle Choir in a
body, about one hundred in all. A few other
brethren and sisters were present. After shaking
hands and exchanging greetings, the choir ren-
dered some choice selections, and Bro. C. R.
Savage spoke a few touching and kindly words in
their behalf, Bro. Cannon responding in a very
affectionate and fatherly way. Mrs. Silverwood
sang in a sympathetic voice the song entitled, “The
song that reached my heart.” She was so much af-
fected, that she was obliged to stop for a few
minutes before she conld control her emotions
sufficiently to resume singing.
	After the Choir concluded their serenade, the
Kanaka brethren and sisters came in and sang
several pieces in their original style, language
and manner. Two or three songs or hymns had
been composed expressly for the occasion in
honor of Bro. Cannon and to welcome him again
to the midst of the Saints in Zion. The Sand-
wich Islanders look upon Bro. Cannon as their
father in the Gospel, he having labored among
them several years, more than thirty years ago
now. Prest. Woodruff was much exercised in
seeing them, and spoke eloquently to them of the
work they were to perform, his interest in their
behalf, and said many comforting things to them,
calculated to encourage them and strengthen their
faith in the Gospel. His remarks were interpreted
by a young Elder who had been on the Islands
upon a mission recently. This little incident was
one long to be remembered by those who wit-
nessed it. To meet again under such pleasant
circumstances two men whose lives are so identi-
 fied with the Church of God, and behold their
faces beaming with joy and gladness, after such a
long and dreary exile as it must have been to
them, and a trial to the Saints to be deprived of
their society, is an event to be treasured in one’s
heart, and remembered to the end of life’s pil-
grimage. This people truly love their leaders,
the Apostles, and Prest. Woodruff, the aged
veteran is greatly venerated as well as beloved by
the Latter-day Saints, who all rejoice to see him
[Column 2]
again among them in his accustomed places and
hear his voice in the assemblies of the Saints.
	On Sunday afternoon, March 24, the large
Tabernacle was filled to overflowing, the galleries
as well as the body of the house, and hundreds
went away who could not obtain seats. It was a
grand and imposing sight, this vast assembly of
people gathered together on the Sabbath day to
partake of the sacrament of the Lord’s supper,
and to hear the voices of those who had been
wont to teach them in the past, again speaking to
them from the public stand.
	Apostle Geo. Q. Cannon was the first speaker;
his voice was as clear and as powerful as ever,
and his emotions, however tender, were kept
strictly under control. He alluded with the ut-
most kindliness and genuine sympathy to the part
women had borne in the crusade or the persecu-
tion of the past few years, and spoke in terms of
glowing admiration of their integrity to the princi-
ples of their faith and their sublime courage
under trying and difficult ordeals. His discourse
was eloquent throughout, and must have made a
deep impression upon all who heard him, even to
the strangers who were in attendance, more as a
matter of curiosity, than to hear the truths of hea-
ven spoken by a servant of God.
	Prest. Woodruff spoke after Bro. Cannon had
finished, in his usual fluent and happy manner,
with the same earnestness and fervor that has
always characterized his public speaking, and he
was listened to with the profoundest attention,
that every word might be treasured up, and not an
idea lost sight of. Joy beamed upon every coun-
tenance, and tears fell from the eyes of many in
welcoming these Apostles again to the body of
the Church of the Saints in Zion.
	In the evening Elder Geo. Q. Cannon addressed
the meeting of the Latter-day Saints in the Fifth
Ward of this city, and no doubt he will be filling
his mission in preaching to the people wherever
and whenever duty calls him, and may his days
be full of peace and happiness, and his enemies
no more have power to force him into exile, or
cast him into prison. And for Prest. Woodruff
the prayers of the Saints ever ascend for his
safety and the lengthening out of his days, that
he may lead Israel onward, and that the enemies
of the Saints may never prevail against him or
have power to hinder the progress of the Church
and kingdom of God here upon the earth.
	On this day, the 1st of March, President Wood-
ruff attains to the advanced age of four score and
two years. It is a happy day for him; he is once
more at liberty to go among the people to associ-
ate with his friends, if not with his family. Verily
he has lived to a good old age, and his days have
been filled up with usefulness, and his opportuni-
ties are now increased and enlarged, for he fills
the highest position of trust and honor in the
Church of God upon the earth. His faithful-
ness, his zeal and integrity, and his humility are
known throughout Zion, and in the lands afar
where the Saints reside, and may he live to see
many happy returns of this day and the work of
God progress, and other Temples finished and
dedicated  to that spiritual work, to which so
much of his life has already been given.
	The EXPONENT adds its congratulations to
those of the many thousands of the Latter-day
Saints in wishing President Woodruff joy and
happiness on this occasion; and also in his enjoy-
ment of freedom to go and come without fear or
molestation.


PRESIDENTS CLEVELAND AND HAR-
RISON.

	On the 4th of this month the inauguration of
President-elect Harrison will take place. The
Republican party are jubilant over the victory
they have gained elaborate preparations are
being made for the event, and it is expected the


Capitol will be crowded with visitors to witness
the grand display and the imposing ceremonies,
and to be a part of the thronging multitude that
ever waits on greatness.
President Cleveland leaves the White House
with the good feelings of the people; his adminis-
tration has not by any means been a failure, and
he has certainly shown himself a man of strong
character and without fear, and has maintained
his own opinions and views, independent of favor,
or the prejudices of his own party.
Mrs. Cleveland has been exceedingly and de-
servedly popular.  Her youth and beauty, her
amiability of manner, and that modest grace
which carries with it a peculiar charm, has en-
deared her to all withwhom she has come in con-
tact.
And so one goes out and another comes into
power, and thus the wheel of life turns round, but
the destinies of men and of nations are in the
hands of the Great Ruler of the universe, and as
the rivers of water, He turneth them whitherso-
ever He will.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Stake secretaries of the Relief Society in
the various Stakes of Zion are urgently requested
to prepare semi-annual Stake reports and forward
them, so that they will reach this city on or before
the 20th of March, in order that a complete re-
port may be furnished the General Conference in
April.  Direct to Dr. Romania B. Pratt, corner
2nd West and First South Streets, Salt Lake
City.  By order of Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary.  
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the Y.
L. M. I. Associations is particularly anxious to
obtain correct semi-annual reports from each 
Stake of Zion.  These should be forwarded so as
to reach her not later than March 10th, to enable
her to compile them in time for the General Con-
ference on April 6th.  Will the secretaries of the
several Stakes please send promptly to Mary E.
Cook, 323 East, Third South Street, Salt Lake
City, Utah.  
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday, March 14,
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.  A representa-
tive from each branch Society in the County is
particularly requested, and a cordial invitation is
extended to all who are interested in the work of
the organization.  The Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake will meet in conference Friday, March 15,
and the Primary Association Saturday, the 16th.
A full representation from each Association is
very desirable at both these conferences.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the
Primary Associations is desirous of obtaining a
full report from each Stake of Zion for the com-
plete report to be prepared in time for the April
Conference, and this semi-annual report should
be ready ten days before, or about the 25th of
March.  Consequently the reports from all points
ought to be in the hands of the Secretary as
early as the 10th of March at the latest, which
would give her then only two weeks time to pre-
pare them.  It is a very important thing, and the
Presidents of Primary Associations in the several
Stakes of Zion, should see that this matter is
properly attended to, both as to correct figures 
and statements and date of sending. Forward
the Stake reports to Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton,
No. 115 Third Street, Salt Lake City.
	ON Wednesday, Feb. 13th, a few ladies assem-
bled by invitation at the residence of Mrs. Julia
C. Howe, in this city, in what might be termed a
parlor meeting.  Social conversation upon topics
of general interest occupied the afternoon, and a
delicious repast was served at 5 p.m., after which
a rich spiritual feast was partaken of, when be-


[Column 1]
﻿sides singing and prayer, nearly every one present
expressed their thoughts and feelings in a few
appropriate and well-chosen words, and also their
desires to devote their lives more fully to the in-
terests and welfare of Zion. The Spirit of God
was abundantly poured out upon all present, and 
a time of rejoicing was experienced.
	Some time since we had the pleasure of attend-
ing a pleasant little gathering at the residence
of Mrs. H. G. Park, in this city. As the day was
a very stormy one, only a few of the invited guests
were present, but those who did come had a most 
enjoyable time. The dinner was delicious and
elegantly served, and the handsome dining room
was brilliantly lighted and as cosy as possible.
The conversation was of a social nature with a
thread of politics to enliven it, woman’s rights,
suffrage, etc., and statehood for Utah. Among
the guests who had the courage to venture out in
the storm, and who participated in the animated
discussions with the genial hostess, were Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Jennie McLean and
Mrs. Margaret M. Caine. Later in the evening
Miss Mabel Park, after much persuasion, con-
sented to play and sing for the company, which
was greatly enjoyed; the young lady has a very
good voice, rich and musical, and her playing is 
very fine and her selections good. 
	TUESDAY evening, February 26, the annual
meeting of the Young Ladies’ Association in the
14th Ward of this city, convened in the Ward
Hall, which was elegantly fitted up for the occa-
sion. A very handsome carpet was laid down,
easy chairs, sofas and handsome little tables were
tastefully arranged; natural flowers here and 
there added their peculiar charm to the decora-
tions, and the beautiful and intelligent faces of
the young women, who had planned all this for
the enjoyment of the gathering, was a sight fair
to see. Miss Aggie Campbell, President of the 
Association, presided with ease and dignity.
After singing, and prayer by Bishop Geo. H.
Taylor, the roll call was responded to with a senti-
ment or verse from each of the members present,
which made a happy variety. The exercises were
of an interesting character, consisting of short
speeches, a song, by the Misses Campbell, and a
correspondence between two young women, a
poem, “Jamie,” recited with true dramatic tender-
ness, by Mrs. Ri. Taylor, also some testimonies,
that were quite impressive. Brief addresses were
also made by Sister M. A. Freeze, M. I. Horne,
E. B. Wells, E. S. Taylor, and by Bishop O. F.
Whitney and President Angus M. Cannon. Elder
Arthur Stayner recited in true dramatic style, the
significant poem, “The Church and the World,”
which was richly appreciated. Bishop Taylor
announced another part of the programme—
refreshments—which were served to all that 
goodly company, by what he facetiously 
termed “the white apron brigade.” After par-
taking of the delicate collation prepared by these
thoughtful young ladies, there was a call for
music, which was responded to, and Bishop
Whitney sang two or three favorite pieces, also
Brother Butler, and after singing and some social
converse of friends and acquaintances, the assem-
bly was dismissed with singing “Good Night”
by the choir, and a benediction, was pronounced by
Coun. H. F. Richards.
	ON Wednesday afternoon a few of the friends
of Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hyde assembled at the resi-
dence of that venerable lady, with baskets of pic-
nic, as an expression of their esteem, and to cele-
brate the seventy-eighth anniversary of her birth.
The afternoon was spent in conversation and re-
calling of reminiscences of the past thirty years.
The party was planned by Miss Josephine Win-
berg, and the programme carried out by herself 
and co-assistants, Mrs. Rachel Grant, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Grey and others. Bro. and Sister Rosell
Hyde of Kaysville were in the city by accident,

[Column 2]
and were present, Bishop Atwood and wife, Elder
Geo. Goddard and wife, Mrs. Ann Woolley and
her daughter Fanny, Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. 
Charles Hyde, Mrs. Catherine Hyde, Mrs. Jane
Rigby and others. Elder Geo. Goddard enter-
tained the company by singing “Hard times come
again no more,” and also, “The men are pretty
dear.” Bishop Atwood made a few remarks be-
fore leaving, expressing his kindly feelings for the
lady in whose honor the guests had assembled,
and called upon Mrs. E. B. Wells, who had lived
so near to Sister Hyde for many years; she re-
sponded briefly, alluding to “Aunt. Elizabeth’s”
(as she is affectionately called) journeying across
the plains with the handcart company in 1856,
and other matters familiar to those present, after
which Bro. Rosell Hyde, by request, spoke a few
words, as the representative of the family of his
deceased father, Herman Hyde, who, with his 
wife and children, were among the earliest mem-
bers of the Church in the State of New York. 
Sister Hyde expressed herself much gratified
with the tributes of good feeling and esteem she
had received, and made some very appropriate 
remarks suited to the time and occasion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CARD OF THANKS.
       	The committee having charge of the benefit re-
cently given in the Theatre for the Deseret Hos-
pital, desire to make public acknowledgment of
their appreciation of the generous response given
to the cause.  Especially are they grateful to the
Home Dramatic Club, who, by their laudable
efforts, did so much to make the affair the artistic
success which the performance proved. They
also tender their special thanks to the Orchestra
for their generosity, and the exquisite music ren-
dered, and to the managers of the Salt Lake
Theatre, and the Gas Company, as well as to the 
newspaper people, who were so liberal in the mat-
ter of advertising.  Multiplication of words is
needless; we are very grateful to all, who in any
way contributed to the benevolent cause for the
good of the institution. 
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, 
	MARGARET G. CLAWSON, 
	ELIZABETH HOWARD, 
	Committee.


MOTHER’S HOUSE.
       How many thoughts are called up by those two
familiar words!  Is there—can there be any place
so full of pleasant places, beneath the waving
palms of sunny isles, or in the chilling shadows
of icy mountains?  Our hearts turn with un-
changeable love and longing to the dear old home
which sheltered us in childhood.  Kind friends
may beckon us to newer scenes, and loving
hearts may bind us fast to pleasant homes; but we
are not satisfied with them alone, for there is one
place more fair and lovely than them all, and that
is a beloved mother’s house.
It may be old and rickety to the eyes of the
stranger.  The windows may have been broken
and patched long ago, and the floor worn through
and mended; but it is still mother’s house from
which we looked out at life with hearts full of
hope, building wonderful castles in cloudland
which faded long ago.  But, thanks to the good
Father, mother’s house is left us, and, weary with
the busy turmoil of life, weary of ourselves, we
turn our steps toward the dear old house of rest,
and at its threshold lay our burdens down. Here
we have watched life come and go; here we have
folded still, cold hands over hearts as still, that
once beat full of love for us; here we have wel-
comed brothers and sisters into life; watched for
the first lisping words from baby lips; guiding
the tottering baby feet from helplessness to man-
hood; and here we have watched, with aching
hearts, to see the dear ones torn from their home-


nest out into a world which has proven but a snare
and temptation to many wandering feet—yes,
many; and here we gather strength to take up our
lives again, and go on patiently unto the end.
Though the world calls us, and we may find
friends good and true, we turn to the dear old
home when troubles come, for help and comfort.
God grant that for us all there may long remain a
mother’s house!—Ex.
	W.


RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE NA-
TIONAL W. S. CONVENTION.
	
	WHEREAS, Women possessed and exercised 
the right of suffrage in the inauguration of this 
government; and, 
	WHEREAS, They were deprived of this right by 
the arbitrary acts of successive state legislatures 
in violation of the original compact as seen in the 
early constitutions; therefore, 
	Resolved, That it is the duty of the several 
states to make prompt restitution of these ancient 
rights, recognized by innumerable precedents in 
English history, and to-day the gradual extension 
of the suffrage over the vast territories.
	WHEREAS, Woman’s title deed to an equal 
share in the inheritance left her by the fathers of 
the Republic has been examined and proved by 
able lawyers; and, 
	WHEREAS, This right is already exercised in 
some form in one hundred localities in different 
parts of the world; therefore, 
	Resolved, That sex is no longer considered a 
bar to the exercise of suffrage by civilized na-
tions.  
	Resolved, That it is the duty of Congress to 
pass a declaratory act, compelling the several 
states to establish a “republican form of govern-
ment” within their borders by securing to women 
their right to vote, thus nullifying the fraudulent 
acts of state legislatures and making our govern-
ment homegeneous from Maine to Oregon.  
	Resolved, That the recent school election in 
Boston is proof of the interest taken by women 
in political subjects and their readinesss to vote 
upon questions of principle.  
	Resolved, That the question of enfranchising 
one-half the people is superior to that of Indian 
treaties, admission of new states, tariff interna-
tional copyright, or any other subject before the
country, and that it is the foremost duty of the 
fiftieth congress at this, its last session, to submit
an amendment to the constitution forbidding states 
to disfranchise citizens on account of sex.  
	Resolved, That as a question of ethics the differ-
ence between putting a fraudulent ballot in the 
box and keeping a rightful ballot out, is nothing, 
and that we condemn the action which prevents 
women from casting a ballot at any election as a 
shameful evidence of the corruption of dominant 
political parties in this country.  
	WHEREAS, The legislature of Washington Ter-
ritory has twice voted for woman suffrage; women 
for the most part having gladly accepted and exer-
cised the right, Governor Squire in his report to 
the Secretary of the Interior in 1884, having de-
clared that it met the approval of a large majority 
of the people; and, 
	WHEREAS, In 1887, after the women had voted 
for three and a half years, the territorial supreme 
court pronounced the law invalid on the ground 
that the nature of the bill must be described in 
the title of the act; and, 
	WHEREAS, In January, 1888, another bill by the 
legislature gave to this law an explicit title; and 
the bill, again granting suffrage to women, was 
signed by Governor Semple, thus triumphantly 
showing the approval of the people, the legislature 
and the governor; and, 
	WHEREAS, The territorial supreme court in 
August, 1888, again rendered a decision against 
he right of the women of the territory to vote;


basing their decision upon the false assumption
that Congress had never delegated to the terri-
tories the right to define the status of their own
voters; and,
	WHEREAS, This decision strikes a blow at the
fundamental powers of the United States Con-
gress, confounding laws delegated to the territories
by the Organic Act of 1852, which vests in
the Legislatures the power to prescribe their
qualifications for voting and holding office—with
state governments which limit legislative enact-
ments by constitutions of their own making; thus
setting at naught the will of the people; there-
fore,
	Resolved, That we earnestly and respectfully
petition Congress that in passing an enabling act
or acts for the admission of the territories of
Washington, Dakota, Montana, Idaho, or New
Mexico, or any of them, there be incorporated a
clause allowing women to vote for delegates to
their state constitutional conventions, and at the
election for the adoption of the constitution in
every territory where the territorial legislature has
passed a law providing that women may vote, and
such a law has not been repealed by subsequent
territorial legislation. 		
	WHEREAS, In the year 1873 our leader, Susan
B. Anthony, was deprived of the right of trial by
jury, by a judge of the Supreme Court of the
United States, simply because she was a woman,
it is the duty of all women to resent the insult
thus offered to all womanhood, and demand of the
men of this closing century of constitution of
government such condemnation of this infamous
decision of Judge Ward Hunt as shall teach the
coming generation of voters that the welfare of
the republic demands that women be protected
equally with men in the exercise of citizenship,
and,
	WHEREAS, In the great Centennial Celebration
of 1876, women were denied all participation in
the public proceedings commemorating the birth
of the Declaration of Independence, though they
sought earnestly and respectfully to declare their
sentiments of loyalty to the great principles of
liberty and responsibility there enunciated,
they should now demand official recognition by
Congress and the State Legislature on all the
Boards of Commissioners, which, at the public
expense, are to initiate and carry out the august
ceremonials of the coming Constitutional Cele-
bration in New York, April, 1889, to the end that
taxation without representation shall no longer be
acknowledged a just and constitutional policy in
this government nominally of the people, there-
fore,
	Resolved, That a Committee be appointed by
the National W. S. A. to memoralize Congress
on this subject, and to take such other action as
shall bring before the enlightened manhood of
our country their duty of chivalry no less than
justice in this important matter.
	WHEREAS, The question of woman’s enfran-
chisement is fundamental and of paramount im-
portance, therefore,
	Resolved, That while the National Woman Suf-
frage Association welcomes and claims the sup-
port of persons of all parties and beliefs, it desires
to strongly reassert the position which it has held
of being non-partisan.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.
 
	On Saturday at 2 p.m., Feb. 16, 1888, a
meeting of the ladies of Beaver County was
held in the meeting house, for the purpose of
organizing a Woman Suffrage Association.
Upon motion Mrs. E. J. Bennett was elected
chairman and Mrs. Hettie Gentry, secretary.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. R. W. Tyler. The
chair then stated the object of the convention
and the different offices to be filled. Mrs. J.
P. M. Farnsworth was there-upon elected Presi-
dent of the Woman Suffrage Association of

[Column 2]

Beaver Co., with Mrs. S. C. Maeser as First,
Ida Marshall Second, and M. A. Tanner as
Third Vice-president, Lu F. Mansfield, Corres-
ponding Secretary, Mrs. M. Johnson, Secretary,
A. W. Farnsworth, Assistant Secretary and
Sarah M. Dell, Treasurer.
	The Executive Committee is as follows: E.
J. Bennett, Chairman, Harriet Farnsworth,
Mary Fernley, Annie Gunn, Stella Barton and
A. Cannon. A committee to draft By-laws
was elected. While the committee was out,
Mrs. Farnsworth addressed the meeting.

MRS. FARNSWORTH'S SPEECH

	I suppose, ladies, we are all aware of the ob-
ject of the present meeting, the causes which
bring us together to-day. Politics are some-
thing foreign to woman's past association, yet
in our city, at least, we hope to ere long better
understand and comprehend their uses, and
the broad provisions their universal rights give
to every citizen. The meaning of Politics is
the science of government, the science of gov-
ernment is the laws, regulations and principles
which control the acts and conduct of a peo-
ple.
	Woman's Suffrage is nothing new in the
world, it being half a century since Mrs.
Francis Wright of England, first introduced
the question in America, soon after Ernestine
L. Ross, of Poland, made her advent in our
country; since that time it has gradually gained
ground, yet its growth has been slow; battling
with bigotry and conservatism every step of
the way; its travels have been long, tedious
and not always victorious, yet its defeats
have all left their effects. Every art and
science of the world, also innovations of every
name and nature, have met with barriers and
had to outlive prejudices among men to
thoroughly and permanently establish them-
selves.
	Since the Romans invaded Britain hundreds
of years since, woman’s elevation has year after
year gained strength; in those dark ages she
was treated simply as a slave, girls being con-
sidered far inferior to boys, and none but the
priests or high officials were allowed to be in-
structed in reading and writing. I thank God
I did not live in those barbaric times.
	Ladies, before I proceed further with my
speech or lecture, I wish to tell you plainly the
position I take here to-day. I am a friend of
humanity, which comprises men and women;
they are inseparable; the one is dependent on
the other; neither alone can form a perfect
home, community or nation; we do not wish to
take any of the rights or laurels from men in
this undertaking. Were I acting or speaking
for personal aggrandizement, for individual
liberties and honor, I would not raise a finger
nor allow my voice to be heard in public. My
own domestic circle provides ample scope for
all the ability I possess, surrounded with the
necessaries of life, a loving, kind husband, who
regards me as his equal; I am sheltered in his
confidence and encircled by bright, precious
babes. God has been kind indeed to me. And
as in a former essay I have told you woman's
true sphere is the home, her noblest, her grand-
est position that of wife and mother, yet, I will
further qualify this assertion if in occupying
those places, or officiating in that office, she
can do justice to other professions, the simple
fact of her acting in her home circle, is no
reason why she should not in any other lawful
one. Some say it will make division in the
family for the wife to have a voice in the body
politic; I say it will not. Where is the hus-
band who does not trust, love and admire an
intelligent, self-reliant wife? Where are the
children who do not respect and reverence an
able, competent mother, who can not only pro-
vide for their physical wants, but also advise,
instruct and guide them in an intellectual
way?
	It was in 1848 Mrs. E. C. Stanton com

[Column 3]

memced her political campaign; since then she
has been made the President of the National
Woman Suffrage Association. She is a lady
of grand capabilities and has brought about
many good results by her indefatigable energy.
Her life and its noble example is too lengthy
to more than simply touch on; she is the only
lady in the United States that was ever put up
as delegate to Congress; of course she was de-
feated, yet that is nothing here nor there. As
a girl in her father's law office, she was often
heard to exclaim: "Why this distinction be-
tween the sexes? My father, though an honor-
able judge, a loving parent, is always repining
in this way: 'If you were only a boy.' "	*	*
	This question of woman’s suffrage is agitat-
ing the minds of the women of almost every
nation. In far off Russia, in Germany, Nor-
way, Sweden and Denmark, in fact all over
Europe, they are feeling the necessity of a
change in governmental affairs. They have
the support of many great, good men. Bis-
mark is opposed to woman's enfranchisement,
yet the Emperor Frederick was a strong advo-
cate of it. Queen Victoria is not in sympathy
with this movement. This is the only unqueenly
principle I have ever heard she possessed.
Gladstone, John Stuart Mills, Sidney Smith
and Lord Mansfield are, or were, the women's
true friends. I cannot do my subject justice,
ladies, I am not educated sufficiently, yet
heaven will aid every just and noble cause, and
we wish to gain nothing that is not founded
on truth, integrity and liberality. We seek
not to convince by any other than sound logic
and worthy reason.
	Susan B. Anthony, when a girl of fifteen,
taught a district school. The directors of the
school said she taught the best disciplined
school in the county, yet, because she was a
girl, paid her twelve dollars, and men teachers
twenty-four and thirty dollars a month.	*	*
*	*	In the large manufacturing cities many
have to stand from twelve to fourteen hours a
day, do equal work with men and receive only
half the wages. While in San Francisco, two
years ago, we visited a Chinese shoe factery,
owned by a gentlemanly Japanese. He showed
us through the establishment, and there among
185 of those filthy heathens twenty-five fair
white girls were employed just the same as
Chinamen. Girls, for there are some present
to-day, let not your only aim in life be to get a
husband; study to learn to be of some use in
the world; place your standard of womanhood
high.	*	*	*	We have
among the truly eminent women many who
lived a single life rather than marry one un-
worthy of them. Henry Ward Beecher once
refused to speak after a woman advocate of
woman enfranchisement—the beautiful, tal-
ented and highly aocomplished Annie E.
Dickenson. She had lectured in the Coopers'
Institute, N. Y., and Beecher was called for
loudly. "No," said he, "let no man raise his
voice after such heaven inspired eloquence.
Music is the only fitting tribute."	*	*
	Were women enfranchised the moral stand-
ard of society would be vastly improved, for
women would not, as a rule, from choice lead
any but moral lives. Thousands, yes, tens of
thousands of women are thrown on their own
resources for support and protection, unaided
by law, in gaining equal wages and positions.
What woman, when taken in court or before a
jury, would not rather be examined by refined,
intelligent ladies, than by men, perhaps rough
and coarse The injustice of women not hav-
ing a voice in the government of our country,
is not yet thoroughly understood. Girls should
study law. A few years ago Old Harvard
would not allow girls to enter the college, but
of late they have been admitted, and have
made bright records to the annex. America
has produced lady lawyers, doctors, teachers
and professors; she has sculptors, painters and
prima donnas, musicians and poets, editors, in-


ventors, hospital nurses, statesmen and house-
keepers. God grant that long before another
centennial year shall have passed away, the
last link in the chain of political vassalage
which binds woman to the dark ages of the
past, shall be broken, forever abandoned, and
the subject of woman suffrage properly ad-
justed, and free and equal rights given to all.
	Miss Stella Barton then sang a song fitted
to the occasion. Miss Aretta Young made a
speech, which was followed by the committee
on by-laws signifying their readiness to report.
The by-laws were read and adopted.
	The meeting then adjourned for one month.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S NATIONAL COUNCIL.
AN ADDRESS TO THE ORGANIZATIONS OF
WOMEN IN THE UNITED STATES.
	The International Council of Women, held
at Albaugh’s Opera House, Washington D. C.,
March 25 to April 1, 1888, convened by the
National Woman Suffrage Association, ad-
dressed by nearly one hundred women from
seven different countries, and representing fifty-
three national societies, was the first attempt to
unify the spirit and method of the world’s
organized womanhood. Under the nine general
topics of Education, Philanthropy, Temper-
ance, Industries, Professions, Legal Conditions,
Political Conditions, Moral Education and
Organization itself (as the essential prerequisite
of the most effective work in all these lines)—
a representative body of women took grave
counsel together, and, without one dissonant
note, the mighty chorus of harmonious pur-
pose sounded through the civilized world. It
is perfectly safe to say that never before did
the nations’ womanhood by a single demonstra-
tion so impress its thought, its sympathy and
its purpose upon the public mind. This
proved the well nigh resistless power of asso-
ciated effort. It was the harvest of forty
years spent in seed-sowing; the hour was ripe
for it; an earlier effort would have been prema-
ture, if not impossible.	
	The chief outcome of this great meeting
was a still wider evolution of woman’s work.
A permanent International Council was pro-
jected (to which none but National Councils
can be eligible as auxiliaries), and a National
Council for the United States was formed (to
which none but National Associations within
the United States can be eligible as auxiliaries).
The names of the officers of the National
Council are affixed to this address. The pur-
pose of this National Council is thus stated in
its constitution:
	“We, the women of the United States, sin-
cerely believing that the best good of our
homes and nation will be advanced by our own
greater unity of thought, sympathy and pur-
pose, and that an organized movement of
women will best conserve the highest good of
the family and the state, do hereby band our-
selves together in a confederation of workers
committed to the overthrow of all forms of
ignorance and injustice, and to the application
of the golden rule to society, custom and law.”
	The report of the committee that submitted
this constitution contains this additional state-
ment:
	“We are strongly in favor of such a federa-
tion, believing that it will incalculably increase
the world’s sum total of womanly courage,
efficiency and esprit de corps; that it will widen
our horizon, correct the tendency to an exaggera-
ted impression of one’s own work as compared
with that of others, and put the wisdom and
experience of each at the service of all.”
	The cosmopolitan character of the Council
is shown in Article II of its constitution, which
reads as follows:
	“This Council is organized in the interest of
no special propaganda, and has no power over

[Column 2]
its auxiliaries beyond that of suggestion and
sympathy, therefore, no society voting to be-
come auxiliary to this Council shall thereby
render itself liable to be interfered with in re-
spect to its complete organic unity, independ-
ence, or methods of work, or be committed to
any principle or method of any other society,
or to any utterance or act of the Council
itself beyond compliance with the terms of this
constitution.”
	These terms relate wholly to the conditions
of membership, which are as follows:
	“Any society of women, the nature of whose
work is satisfactory to the Executive Commit-
tee, as to either its undoubtedly national
character or national value, may become aux-
iliary to this Council by its own vote, and by
the payment of a sum amounting to half a
cent yearly per member, in addition to a trien-
nial payment of twenty-five dollars into the
treasury of the National Council, not later than
three months prior to its triennial meetings.”
	Article III reads as follows: “The officers
shall be a President, Vice-President at Large,
Corresponding Secretary, Recording Secretary,
and Treasurer. Each President of an auxiliary
society shall be exofficio Vice-President, of the
National Council, and the President of the
National Council shall be ex-officio Vice-Presi-
dent of the International Council. The five
general officers, with the Vice-Presidents, shall
constitute an Executive Committee, of which
seven members shall make a quorum, to con-
trol and provide for the general interests of the
Council.”
	The meetings of the National Council are to
be triennial, and the Committee of arrange-
ments for them is composed of the Executive
Committee and one delegate chosen by each
auxiliary society as its representative.
	This address is sent to all national organiza-
tions of women, earnestly inviting them to
become auxiliary to the Council by formal ac-
tion at their next Executive Session, to be re-
ported to our Corresponding Secretary, Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, Indianapolis, Ind.
	THE LEADING OBJECT OF THIS
NEW MOVEMENT is to aggregate all local
societies having the same object into national so-
cieties eligible to auxiliaryship in the National
Council of Women. For instance, the clubs
organized by women in all the leading cities
have thus far been isolated, but it is hoped
that a convention will be called within a year
to form a national federation of women’s clubs;
the influence of individual clubs would be in-
creased by coming into such a federation, and
the federation would be eligible to auxiliary-
ship in the National Council. The same is true
of the women’s protective agencies and many
other excellent societies that have been organ-
ized locally, but not as yet generally.
	It is confidently anticipated that all national
organizations of women will within the
next two years become auxiliary to the Nation-
al Council, and be ready to participate through
their representatives in the first triennial meet-
ing of the Woman’s National Council, to be
held in Washington in the spring of 1891.
	We also suggest the unification of all local
societies into women’s councils for each town
or city, and the aggregation of all state socie-
ties into state and territorial councils, that this
general plan of solidarity may be made help-
ful to the utmost possible degree, bringing
women of all sects and sections into mutual

	As all societies in the National Council are given equal
representation in that body by its Constitution, without
regard to the size of their membership, the general officers
of the Council have unanimously decided to recommend a
change in the Constitution at the first meeting of the
Council, in 1891, by which a uniform triennial fee of $100
shall be substituted for the annual and triennial fees above
mentioned; and the general officers will assume the re-
sponsibility of admitting societies to membership on this
new basis, if preferred, until such amendment can be
passed upon at the first meeting of the Council.

[Column 3]
acquaintance, efficiency and fellowship. The
simplicity of the plan is one of its chief ad-
vantages.
	The local Council of women would be made
up of the presidents of all societies of women
in a given locality, and might have a head-
quarters of its own, with an office secretary,
and hold meetings quarterly. This Council
would naturally enter unitedly upon such lines
of work as all Societies could agree upon. The
State Council would naturally hold meetings
annually. It is believed that such a plan of
interaction, combined with the organic inde-
pendence of each society, will broaden the out-
look of individual members and lead to larger
mutual toleration between organizations here-
tofore separate, and to a great degree non-sym-
pathetic; that it will do away with the over-
lapping of plans that now leads to much
waste of time and energy, and that its influence
would be sufficient to secure almost any local
reform either small or great.
	As an illustration of the practical working
of the plan, it may be stated that such a Coun-
cil of women might, if it were the general de-
sire, arrange for petitions from all societies of
women in any given town or city asking that
women should be placed on the school board;
on the different boards entrusted with the care
of public institutions for the defective, delin-
quent and dependent classes; asking for the
admission of women to membership, and to an
official standing, also, in local, county and state
organizations, such as press associations, medi-
cal associations, Sunday School and ecclesias-
tical associations, etc.; asking that the doors of
such schools and colleges as are not yet open
to women may be thrown open for their admis-
sion; asking for gymnastic and industrial
training for girls in the public schools; asking
for better protection for the home, and more
judicious penalties for all crimes against girls
and women.
In short, local and State Councils might take
the same action in local and state affairs that
the National Council will take regarding in-
stitutions and movements of national character
and scope. It will be readily seen that greatly
added force will come from any such move-
ment, whether local, state or national, when it
is backed by the united societies of the locality,
state or nation, and that with a small expendi-
ture of money and time, all these societies,
while carrying on separately their own indi-
vidual work for which they were organized,
may also do an immense work for womanhood
at large along the lines on which all can agree
to unite in sympathy, influence and effort.
To carry out such plans on so large a scale
will require time, but there is every reason to
believe that the women of the nation will per-
sist in a quiet but intelligent endeavor, having
in view the ends herein stated, until success
shall crown their great but altogether practic-
able movement.
	Already the organizations of women in
Chicago have formed a local Council, and a
similiar movement has been inaugurated in
Philadelphia, Detroit and Providence. Ohio
and Kansas have organized State Councils.
	Such unification of all local and State
organizations will at once illustrate on a small
scale what on a large scale the National
Council is expected to accomplish for the
welfare of humanity. But it is to be distinctly
understood that under the constitution of the
National Council only national societies of
women are eligible to membership therein.
	A form of constitution for local and State
Councils, and other hints and helps for organiz-
ing, will be furnished on application to Mrs.
May Wright Sewell, lnd., Corresponding Sec-
retary of the Woman’s National Council.
	Editors, writers and speakers are all earnest-
ly requested to further with their respective
facilities the plans herein stated. But we here
address ourselves especially TO THE LEADERS


AMONG WOMEN, urging upon their prayerful
thought the possibilities of blessing bound up
in the organized womanhood of our country—
a country which surpasses all others in its
bewildering danger and ineffable hope.
	Women have never yet united in large
numbers save for good purposes; it is safe to
predict that they never will. Their isolation
one from another is in the interest of brute
force; their combination means the dominance
of peace and spiritual power, the purification,
protection and coronation of the home; and
home is the shrine for whose sacred sake all
that is good and true on earth exists. Happy
are we who live to see the day when the women
of our native land are clasping hands with a
purpose so high and in a unity so holy which
may God bless.
FRANCES E. WILLARD, Evanston, Ill.,
	President of the Woman’s National Council
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Rochester, N. Y.
	Vice-President at Large.
M. LOUISE THOMAS, 680  Lexington Ave.,
	New York City,	
	Treasurer.
MARY F. EASTMAN, Tewksbury, Mass.,
	Recording Secretary.			
MAY WRIGHT SEWELL, 343 N. Pennsylvania
	Street, Indianapolis, Ind.,
	Corresponding Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.﻿


HIGGINSON SPEAKS FOR HIMSELF.
	Col. T. W. Higginson having been, as usual,
quoted by the attorney for the remonstrants,
as suggesting practical difficulties, the follow-
ing letter was read to the committee:
	CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 6, 1889.
DEAR MR. BLACKWELL:—I am sorry that I
must be in New York on Friday; but I will
authorize you to say to the committee, if you
think best, that I hope that they will report in
favor of extending suffrage to women. I think
there can be now no doubt that they will exer-
cise it freely, if they have the opportunity.
That they will always exercise it wisely, espe-
cially at first, is not to be expected. Men do
not always vote wisely, though they have had
much more practice than women. All great
extensions of the suffrage bring in a new and
inexperienced class, and the immediate results
are not always good. But the ultimate result
is always to educate and enlighten the emanci-
pated class, and to benefit the whole community
in the end. Women will probably vote, on
the whole, quite as judiciously as men do; and
they need the ballot for self-respect and for
self-protection.
	Very truly yours,
THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The vote on the municipal woman suffrage
bill in the Ohio House of Representatives
stood 36 to 36, and the bill was lost. But to
get a tie vote in the Legislature of Ohio,
which has hitherto been exceedingly conserva-
tive on the suffrage question, is almost a victory
in itself.
	Miss Amelia B. Edwards, the author, who
expects soon to visit America, has traveled ex-
tensively. Most of her time of late years has
been spent in the service of the Egyptian Ex-
ploration Society. The descriptions in her
novels are carefully verified, and often two
years pass after a story is begun before it is
finished.
	In the U. S. Senate, Feb. 14, Mr. Mander-
son, of Nebraska, introduced a bill providing
that all citizens of the United States having
the qualifications requisite for electors in the
most numerous branch of any State or Terri-


torial Legislature shall be entitled and allowed
to vote at any election for representative or
delegate in the Congress of the United States
without distinction of sex, any constitution,
laws, customs, usage or regulation of any State
or Territory to the contrary notwithstanding.
—Ex.


OBITUARY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER;—The Twentieth Ward branch of the
Relief Society, this city, has recently been called upon to
part with one of its most faithful and energetic members.
	Sister Mary Ann Hodson died of pneumonia, Jan. 26,
1889, aged 63 years. Deceased was born in Thael, near
Wells, Somersetshire, England. Embraced the Gospel in
Brynmawr, Breconshire, in 1851; emigrated to Utah in
1871. Held the office of teacher in the Society above
named for fifteen years, in which she proved herself re-
markably diligent and efficient.
	At her funeral, held in the 20th Ward meeting house,
Jan. 27th, a large and attentive congregation listened to
highly instructive remarks from Bishop George Romney
and several other leading members of the ward. Each of
the speakers bore testimony to the excellent character and
many good works of Sister Hodson. While some of the
brethren who would have spoken in eulogistic terms of her
ministry in their households, as an Angel of Mercy in times
of sorrow and distress, were so moved to tears and over-
come by emotions, as to be unable to give utterance to their
feelings. This, as our Bishop remarked and the listeners
felt, was “the most sublime eloquence and touching tribute
that could be offered.”
	Although, by her summons hence, we feel that we have
lost a dear friend and able helper in our Society, we rejoice
in anticipation of a blessed reunion with her, if we can only
be as faithful as she has been, until our earthly mission shall
also be fulfilled.
	L. GREENE RICHARDS,
In behalf of the 20th Ward Relief Society.
	JANE MILLER, President.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 6, 1889.


BEAVER Y. L. M. I. A.
	In memory of Sister Mona Schofield Olsen, who died
Jan. 26th 1889:
	Whereas, our sister, who has departed this life in her
early youth, was a faithful member of this Association for
a number of years, ever prompt in the performance of the
duties devolving upon her, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, as an Association, mourn the sud-
den death of our sister, that we miss her pleasant face and
sweet voice from our meetings, and that we extend our
sincere and heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved young hus-
band, to her little babe, deprived of a mother’s loving care,
and to her parents, brothers, sisters, and to all her former
friends and associates.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the sorrowing husband and parents, that a copy be sent to
the Utonian and the Woman’s Exponent for publication,
and also recorded in the books of this Association.
	E. J. BENNETT, Prest.
	A. W. FARNSWORTH.

Are not life’s burdens beyond endurance? 
Questions the mourner’s sad heart,
But a comforting voice breathes assurance,
Not long you’ll remain apart;
She has been called as one of God’s chosen
To labor in a brighter land;
’Tis by His will that she's been taken—
Called from our mortal band.

’Tis left for us to try and profit
By her life’s crosses so nobly borne;
It is left for us to strive to mend
The poor hearts by sorrow torn.
Be comforted, we kindly say,
And acknowledge God’s hand, of love,
Your dear one has been justly called
To the beautiful realms above.

Parents your child has left a name—
’Tis an honor to her and you,
Free from cruel guilt or shame, 
And ’tis loved by not a few.
As child and maiden she was true loved,
The favored of her parents’ home.


As life companion, a gentle, true,
Kind woman she was known.

As friend and associate she’s proven
So noble, pure and good,
As a member of our Mutual band
At duty’s post she stood.
On father, mother, brothers, sisters,
We ask God’s blessing to descend;
Yes, in the heart of every mourner
May a soothing solace wend.

And heal the wounded heart of husband,
He who’s been so tried and true;
Hover o’er her precious infant
Whom its mother scarcely knew.
Yes, place your strong arm round your babe,
Keep him close to you and God;
In the paths of truth and virtue,
E’en the paths his mother trod.

And ere his infancy hath faded,
Or to manhood he’ll attain,		
Teach his lips and heart to love
His mother’s sacred name;
And when this short life is ended,
And no more on earth you’ll roam,
At the pearly gates of heaven
Mona’ll wait to welcome you home.


NOTICE.
	To all those who intend to raise the silk
worms this season, please let them inform me
at the earliest date possible the quantity of
eggs they may require, so I can make a report
to the Departure of Agriculture to obtain the
same, with the number of trees for feed.
D. GRAVES, Supt. Silk Industry.
Provo, Feb. 16, 1889.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in	
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
