Vol. 17.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY1, 1889.		No. 17.﻿


[For the Exponent.]
	A MOTHERS LOVE AND HOPE.

	Life is a dream, you say?
		A dream both sad and sweet!
	A dream of mem'ry to the old and grey,
		Of hope to the young and fleet.
	
	I know, I know to-day
		I kiss these baby lips;
	To-morrow I moan and sigh and pray
		For my bright love's sad eclipse.

	Oh, dimpled baby hands,
		And pure, heavenly eyes;
	And feet so sweet and dear, through many lands
		Ye will walk in glad surprise.
	
	So glad, so bright the world	
		Will seem to your early gaze;
	Will ye bear the siren's flag unfurled
		Through your dreamy, youthful days?

	And must I give thee up,
		My love-kissed, sunny lamb?
	Must my loved one taste earth's sin-stained cup,
		To blight this heav'nly calm?

	Not that I think he will fall
		From the pride of man's estate,
	But the sorrow and care that come to all
		Will darken his life—'tis fate.

	All things may tempt my boy,
		Earth's tinsel dazzles so,
	And the peaceful hope of a heav'nly joy 
		My darling might soon forgo.

	But no ! though life be dreams
		Of memory, dreams of hope,
	Though filled with foolish, foolish schemes,
		And bound in a narrow scope,

	Though to-day be all we own,
		To-morrow a dream unfilled,
	And yesterday glide to the Past alone,
		Only marred by the life we willed.

	Though the morrow we know not of
		May bring sorrow and sad unrest,
	Let us trust that the Father who sees from above
		Will lead baby as He knows best.
	
	And the eyes so bright to-day
		Shall with wisdom's light be filled,
	To safely guide through the narrow way
		Till all earth-born strife be stilled.

	And the change that will surely come
		O'er my innocent, priceless love,
	Will at last, when he enters a brighter home
		Beam in peerless light above.

	And there we all shall know
		That this life was not a dream,
	That its passing fleetness was not a show,
		And its throbbing not a gleam,

	But a solemn, solemn thing,
		And its love a light from heaven;
	And there of its glory they e'er may sing,
		Who have loved and been forgiven.

	And love shall not pine and sigh
		For a purity blemished and fled,
	But the innocent light of my baby's eye
		Will revive in that world ahead!
								RUBY LAMONT. 
Beaver, Utah.


[column 1]
THE WOMAN'S MOVEMENT.
	Since the days of Eve her daughters have
lived under the curse of social inferiority to
her brother man.  In this generation the irk-
someness of this condition has been displayed
by the woman's movement for equal rights,
[column 2]
This movement has met with slurs and opposi-
tion at every step, just as every truth has
always been opposed by its adversary; but not-
withstanding opposition and misrepresentation
and denouncement, even by women themselves,
it has made a very marked progress within the
last fifty years.  This is well.  God, who made
us all, and who is no respecter of persons, in-
tended that woman should in every way be equal
to man in dignity; but He also knew the station
in which she would be placed while on earth,
that her child-bearing and child-rearing sphere
would curtail other aspirations, which man
would have the opportunity to follow.  Of the
two He knew that the former would be of the
greater importance to the world, and therefore,
in the guise of a curse, bestowed upon her the
blessing to be subject to man, that she might
the better fulfill her mission, and that in this
mission she might receive the support and pro-
tection of him whom He made stronger for the
world's battles.
	It is true that labor and suffering have both
fallen to her lot since then, and while she has
not shirked her own heavy calling, she has
oftentimes assumed patiently the part allotted
to her husband as well.  This has proven her
own faithfulness, and if man may have often
failed in his part, and with an unsympathetic
heart laid his burden upon his patient, con-
scientious, suffering wife, let him render his
account unto Him who assigned unto each his
position!
	To me it seems like one of the latter day
signs, that women are becoming restless be-
neath their oppressed situation.  The world's
record will soon be finished, and when the mil-
lennium shall set in, and the curse be removed,
the sudden emancipation of women, without
forethought would have a startling and un-
pleasant effect.  It were better to awaken first
and struggle for what we believe to be right,
and then in the end to be crowned with suc-
cess by a just and righteous God.  I write with
confidence, for I firmly believe that our Hea-
venly Father loves His daughters just as well
as he loves His sons, and that He does not de-
sire the glorification of one at the sacrifice of
the happiness of the other.
	Women are respected in communities or na-
tions in proportion to the status of civilization
of those nations.  In savage society they are
held as little, if any, above the brutes.  In
Turkey they are not believed to possess immor-
tal souls; in more refined society their position
is comparatively higher, but how many men
even here will not sneer at any effort for the
higher education and standard of woman, and
look with more or less contempt (it may even
be unconscious), upon a patient, loving, plod-
ding, over-burdened wife!  Of course men
who know that this is true will hide themselves
behind a score of excuses, but the hard fact of
inconsiderate indifference, heedlessness and
conscious superiority (?) remain the same.  This
is almost a general fault, though one which in
our sermons, self-examining and resolutions
toward better living, is quite overlooked.
	I have said the station of woman accords in
communities with their culture and civilization. 
Is it not, then, possible that when we once
reach that high, perfect and glorious civiliza-
tion which we aspire to in that great future
which shall celestialize the good and pure, we
may there meet the thorough emancipation of
our sex, and find them elevated to their proper
[column 3]
place.  Ay, verily, nor will we accomplish
this before that time.
	In the meantime we must pray and struggle
to emancipate ourselves from vanity, envy, dis-
cord, narrow mindedness, and all that is con-
trary to true greatness, to the meekness and
humility of the Spirit of Christ, and all that
cometh not from God.  We must learn that
noble independence which shrinks not from
drawing the censure and contempt of others
upon itself, so long as it is in defense of princi-
ples which it honestly believes to be true.  We
shall find that in this lies the greater emancipa-
tion and better freedom, which will prepare
and make us worthy of equal condition with
honest and intelligent men.  If we are in
truth inferior to him in attainments of knowl-
edge, and our hearts are devoted to winning
the carnal eye of praise and flattery, instead of
learning the things that are necessary for gov-
ernment, how can we consistently claim an
equal political place by his side?  It were bet-
ter to study the sciences and general truths of
nature's God, than to devote our time and
souls to the following of fashion or the giddy,
fascinating, alluring, but hollow, dead sea
ashes of the world's tinsel.
	All hail, then, to the woman's movement!
May it spread over all the land, and its spirit
enter every heart that desires to see the triumph
of Right and Justice!
					    RUBY LAMONT.
Beaver, Utah.

		    EMINENT WOMEN.
	Distinguished women of the past are a study,
as well as men of mark.  Though they have
been fewer in number, and have had more
hindrances in the way of their progress, yet,
recorded in the annals of history, are the
names of some illustrious women, who deserve
to be held in honorable remembrance, for the
service they have done the world in education,
science, art and literature.  We recall their
names with a mingled degree of just pride and
pleasure, and we are gratified to remember
them as holding rank among the noble bene-
factors of the human race.  Some we cannot
help loving, though we find them very imper-
fect in character, and faulty in their lives.
Yet we must recollect their peculiar condition
and surroundings, the age in which they lived
with all its bigotry and prejudices, and make
due allowance for human weaknesses.  Often
we have a lingering tenderness for those of
whom we read; they appeal to our sympathies
and call out the emotions of our affectional
nature, and stimulate us through these, to
deeds of kindness, and noble exertions to be-
come worthy a similar place in the hearts of
our contemporaries.  Others only excite our
admiration; yet candor compels us to acknowl-
edge their power as a lever in the social struct-
ure; albeit they do not touch our hearts, or en-
list our affections.  We should not be forgetful
of those who have labored to better the condi-
tion of their fellow-beings, though they have
passed on to another stage of action.  Mankind
are reaping the benefits of their works and
their books, through the effect their lives and
sentiments have had upon education, laws,
governments and public opinion.  There is
much to be learned from the lives of individu-
als.  But we can only study those of a past
age, who have made themselves known to the


public. Many have died, who have been bet-
ter in their day and generation, and more ca-
pable perchance of noble deeds, yet had not
the moral courage and the stamina to come
forward and brave the ridicule and censure
the world heaps upon those who enter the arena
of public life.

"Full many a gem of purest ray serene,
	The dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear;
Full many a flower is born to blush unseen,
	And waste its sweetness on the desert air"

	Bitter taunts and withering sarcasms are
almost invariably aimed at women who step
aside from the common, beaten track of every-
day life. Opprobrious epithets, the severest
criticisms and actual persecutions have, in
many instances, been literally heaped upon the
envied possessors of genius or talent who have
launched forth unheralded into the world of
literature, or sought to maintain with strength
of character and firmness of purpose, their
original views and opinions in the face of op-
position. Jealousy and unprincipled ambition
for honor, or success, even at the expense of
others' downfall, sometimes points with
poisoned malice the winged arrows of hate
and scorn, which hurled at the innocent and
unsuspecting wound terribly in secret, though
the brave hearts quail not, nor betray any out-
ward sign of agony. He or she who can live
above these trials, or pass unscathed through
such ordeals, surely deserve this meed of praise,
for they are the heroes of a series of life's
battles, hard indeed to be endured and difficult
to run against the fearful odds of ignorance,
envy and superstition.

	"He that writes,
Or makes a feast, more certainly invites
His judges than his friends; there's not a guest
But will find something wanting, or ill-drest."

	In recalling to mind the subject of eminent
women of the past, and linking therewith some
names well known to the world, my mind
rested casually upon the two Montagues. I
believe they are sometimes confused in the 
mind, as they have both given to the world a
series of letters, and not remembered as two,
but one. Lady Mary Wortley Montague was
the first woman Montague known as a litera-
teur, and although she was not born a Monta-
gue, is known only by that name as a writer,
She was the daughter of Evelyn Pierrepont,
Luke of Kingston, and was born at Thoresby,
Nottinghamshire, in the year 1690, and is said
to have been a very "clever and beautiful
child." She received a liberal education, but
being eager for a more thorough knowledge,
she taught herself the elements of Latin, and
became well versed in the Greek and Latin
languages. She was of a sportive tempera-
ment and brilliant and lively imagination,
which is noticeable through her "famous cor-
respondence." She was an exquisite dancer,
and in one of her letters she says: "I taught
the Viennese some new country-dances, they
only knowing half a dozen, which they had
been practicing over and over again, during a
period of some fifty years."
	She considered it "as scanalous for a woman
not to know how to use her needle, as it was
for a man not to know how to use a sword."
She was quite distinguished for vivacity, wit,
love of anecdote and "large general energy."
She disliked sorrow, and maintained that sor-
row for the dead is teh vainest form of feeling.
Yet she carried through all her literary pro-
ductions a firm thread of sound common
sense.
	She was married at twenty-two to Edward
Wortley Montague, grandson of the first Earl
of Sandwich. It is said of her that she was
insensible to tenderness, her heart cold, lifeless
and umimpressionable. "She held romantic
sentimentalitv in comtempt." In one of her
letters addressed to her intended husband, she

[Column 2]

thus expresses herself: "I can esteem, I can be
a friend, but don't know whether I can love.
Expect all that is complacent and easy, but
never what is fond, in me." Her husband, it
is said was as destitute as herself of romantic
sentiment. He was a diplomatist, distinguished
himself in Parliament, and was the intimate
friend of Addison.
	Lady Montague accompanied her husband
in 1716 to the court of Constantinople, whither
he went as ambassador, and during her sojourn
there wrote an interesting description of that
wonderful city in letters to her friends. A
surreptitious edition of these letters was pub-
lished in 1763. They were so well received as
to pass through several issues and to be trans-
lated into many languages. A genuine edition
of these and her other works was published
under the authority of her son, the Marquis of
Bute, in 1803.
	There is a circumstance connected with her
life in Constantinople, which has caused her to
be remembered with gratitude by all classes of
people. She learned from the villagers of the
practice of inoculation for the small pox, and
performed the operation herself upon her son,
and by this means and through her influence
inoculation was introduced into the West of
Europe. After Lady Mary's return to Eng-
land, she resided at Twickenham, where she
"formed an intimacy with the celebrated poet,
Pope." Sometime after, the friendship was
broken off, and "the poet was ignoble enough
to write satires against her talents and reputa-
tion," which he afterwards denied.
	In 1739 she went to Venice, on account of
her failing health, where she lived twenty-two
years, then returning to England, died in the
following year, 1762. Her great-grandson,
Lord Wharncliffe, published a complete edition
of her writings in 1836, under the title of
"Letters and Works of Lady Mary Wortley
Montague."
	This celebrated lady is said to have been a
keen observer of human character, and her
literary productions are spoken of as well-
polished mirrors, wherein might be discerned
the social condition of England in the seven-
teenth and eighteenth centuries, respectively.
This lady was proud rather than vain, and
prided herself on her social and literary dis-
tinction. She was not what would be styled
"popular." It has been said that "it is doubt-
ful about her ever being loved and respected
for herself." She was at one time elected a
"toast" by the Kitcat Club, an association of
literary people, whose friendship she enjoyed,
and yet says one who has written of her, "It is
very problematical if she ever actually secured
what Aristotle styles a friend "for virtue's 
sake." Let us be lenient to Lady Mary's
faults, remembering the peculiarity of her time,
and the sensuality that marked the reign of
Charles II. Here is an extract from one of
her poems. It reveals a true picture of
woman's estimate at that period, even by one
of her own sex.

"While thirst of praise, and vain desire of fame,
In every age is every woman's aim;
With courtship pleased, of silly titles proud,
Fond of a train, and happy in a crowd."

		AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHY BUSY MEN WRITE THE BEST
			BOOKS. 

	If you want good work done in science, or
art, or literature, you must endow people, it is
said; with the means of giving their whole
time to it. There is a certain a priori plausi-
bility about the demand which often persuades
an unthinking mind of its truth. But as a
matter of fact it is opposed to the lessons of
experience, and even to the laws of human
nature. Indeed, the "Endowment of Re-

[column 2]
search” would, we verily believe, be the best
possible way to ensure the worst possible results,
both in quantity and quality: In quantity,
because the pressure of other occupations is of
itself a spur to intellectual activity—so much
so that it has come to be almost a proverb that
the busiest men have always the most time to
spare. And in quality, because removal from
the “rough-and-tumble” of the work-a-day
world distorts a man’s judgement and narrows
his vision—so much so that mankind at large
always feels some deserved contempt for the
“armchair” writer.	
	On the other hand, the history of literature
is full of examples which show the bracing
and the broadening effects of their other work
upon authors who have been busy men.  Aris-
totle and Plato did not clamor, like our modern
University dons, to be relieved of the “drudg-
ery” of teaching; but rather found, like so
many of the Great German Professors, their best
stimulus in their disciples Bacon(who, even
if he did not write Shakespeare, wrote quite
enough on his own account) was busier than
bustling Lord Halsbury. Cicero was a politi-
cal barrister. Grote was a London banker.
Mill, like Charles Lamb, was a clerk in the
East India House—a form of “slavery” in no
way consistent either with the depths of philos-
ophy or the sparkle of belles-lettres. The
Greek tragedians were proud no doubt of their
iambics, but even prouder of their general-
ship. Shakespeare was a stage manager, and
Goethe a Geheimrath. Even in the domain of
the fine arts, it may be doubted whether the
greatest masters have not been those who had
most else to do besides painting. Certain it is
that Leonardo thought far more of his skill as
a civil engineer than of his grace as a designer,
that “the painter Rubens amused himself as
Ambassador,” and that the Prince of gold-
smiths, Benvenuto Cellini, spent as much time
in fighting and traveling as in beating gold or
moulding clay.
	And to skip now to our own time, who is
the first of living English scientists ? Why,
Professor Huxley, who has also been one of
the busiest of men. Sir John Lubbock is
another man who has combined high general
culture with original scientific research; and
he is a politician with hobbies, and a financier
with ideas ! No better work has been done in
the domain of pure literature during this gen-
eration than that which Matthew Arnold did
in the intervals of his daily tasks and common
rounds as a school inspector. His namesake,
Sir Edwin Arnold, who finds time to go out
into the by-ways of foreign literature, is a
working journalist. Mr. William Morris,
though in his verse “the idle singer of an
empty day,” is in his life the busy spender of
full days indeed.
	The omission of the greater poets of the
day from the list is not so much an exception
to the rule as it looks. For the spontaneity,
which is the essence of great poetry, makes
the pressure of any other spur unnecessary.
So again Darwin, who was a man of independ-
ent means, is almost the exception that proves
the rule, for his devotion to scientific research
was altogether exceptional. And as for the
evil effects of a purely literary avocation, the
open “secret of Carlyle’s life,” is that be pined
for political employment.—Pall Mall Gazette


Miss Catharine T. Simonds, of Boston
has been a teacher for fifty consecutive years
all but two of them in the Franklin School.

	The Indian Princess, Winnemucca, who
attended Wellesley College, and has written
stories under the nom de plume of “Bright
Eyes," is now teaching an Indian school.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WAIFS OF THE TOWN.

I ponder by night and I ponder by day,
On the poor little waifs that throng life’s highway; 
Where did they come from, why mnst they roam,
Above, as below, oh, had they no home?

Out in the street with no home and no friend,
Poverty-stricken to life’s bitter end;
Still to “keep moving," like poor little “Joe,"
To hear still, “Move on, sir," and no where to go.

Begging a mite from whoever will give,
To keep them from starving, to help them to live;
Still to drag on in this pitiful way,
Night after night, day after day.

Through the slums and the alleys and holes of the town,
And the rivers' wet wharf's, where the fog’s coming down,
Pierce through the rags of the shivering frame,
Of this child of the street, with no home and no name.

God of the desolate, why is it so?  
Can any one tell me, does any one know?
Are they "born bad" as poor "Trotty Dick" said,
Is poverty sin, had "they better be dead?"

If not born bad how can they rise
From the filth that surrounds them up to the skies?
Was it not these that Christ died to save,
So helpless and lone on life's pitiless wave?

Was it not these He meant when He said,
"Of such is the kingdom"—"My lambs must be fed"—
Why don't He gather them back to the fold,
Ere the spark of divinity in them grows cold.

I dare not think on, for my spirit grows wild,
When I think how the purest are often defiled,
When the fault is not theirs, oh, how can it be,
That God and the angels bear such things to see.
										HOPE.


TRUTH. 

Thou brightest of all earthly gems.	
How much I think of thee;
Whether in mansions of the great,
In wide domain and vast estate:		
Or in the cottage of the poor,
In workman's shop or merchant’s store:
Upon the land or on the sea,
There is nothing ever outshines thee.

Intelligence is also bright, 
Unless it leaves thy side,
And then I’d fear to even move
One step from her aside.	
But her with thee I do admire,
And I've an ardent fond desire,
That thou with her wouldst condescend 
To lead me on till time shall end.

Be my companion every day,
Least I should err and go astray;
For well I know, that nought can shake,
Nor vile aspersions make thee quake;
Nor can the wicked stop thy course,
But soon thou’lt fill the whole wide earth,
And darkness be compelled to hide,
And all the wicked in their pride
In darkness will be swallowed up,
And drink of indignation’s cup,

From Him they have so long defied,
From Him who once for them hath died.
While those who Truth have ever sought, 
Shall in the cloud with Saints be caught;
And free from sorrow, pain and cares
all live with Christ a thousand years.  
Thou lead me on, thou gem of Truth,
For have loved thee from my youth.
		CHARLOTTE CRUSE THORPE. 
Ephraim, Sanpete Co.


[column 1]
		   ILMA DI MURSKA

	Many of our theatre-going citizens have a﻿
pleasant remembrance of the visit to our city
of Maurice Strakosch and his opera company
in 1875, and how the beautiful voice of Ilma
Di Murska charmed and electrified them. It
was a time when little of the legitimate opera
was known in Salt Lake, and few opportunities
[column 2]
had been afforded the music-loving of hearing
the classical notes or trained voices of renown.
True some famed and wonderful singers, among
whom were Parepa Rosa and Anna Bishop
had honored us with a visit and delighted us
with concert singing; and we remember how
eager we were to compare the wonderful voice
of Mme Bishop with the beautiful and ex-
quisite voice of our own Mrs. Careless, and
what exultant pride we felt in the comparison.
Then, also once, only once before had we the
privilege of hearing real opera; what a feast it
was, when Hess brought to us his English
Opera Company with Carleton, Castle, Maas,
Conly, Annie Beaumont, Seguin, and others
equally renowned. The people were hungry
for music, and every night the large theatre
was filled with a charmed and enthusiastic
audience. We were not critical then for our
knowledge of music was about as limited as
our opportunities.
	Since those days we have watched with some
interest the career of these early artists, their
rise or fall, their fame or fate. Carleton has
 visited many times since, but no more as the
baritone in heavy opera, but as the Prince of
opera comique; Castle, they say has lost his
beautiful tenor voice, but still insists in appear-
ing before the public on the concert stage in
remote towns in the East; Maas, poor Maas,
how lovely his voice rang out in that one act
from Rigoletto and thrilled us until we could
scarcely keep our seats, but felt like rising to
our feet and cheering him, and, he right at the
zenith of his glory died in London; Conly with
his magnificent bass voice visited us once again
in company with Mme. Kellog and he, alas!
was drowned; Seguin has retired; of Beaumont
we never hear; of Di Murska the late despatches
from, Munich tell us she is dead, died in great
poverty and her daughter, heart-broken, poi-
soned herself; the remains of the two were
taken to Gotha and cremated, and on the Urn
containing their ashes, one may read: “These
ashes are all that remains of a nightingale.”
Mme. Di Murska’s career was bright but brief;
at her death she was only in her forty-sixth
year and her public life lasted scarcely eighteen
years. She was born in Croatia in 1843. She
studied the art of song at Vienna and at Paris
under Signor and Mme. Marchesi. In 1862
she made her debut in opera at the Pergola
Theatre in Florence and was kindly received.
Three years later she accepted an offer to sing
at Her Majesty’s Theatre in London, at that
time the Mecca of Italian opera singers, the
part of Lucia in Donnizetti’s familiar opera,
and was a pronounced success. From that time
her star was in the ascendant, and her fame
was widespread. Between 1873 and 1876 she
visited this country, Australia and New Zealand;
at that time her voice was perfect. Two years
since, when she again visited this country, her
old admirers found the sweetness and quality
of her voice gone, and, feeble in strength, she
was unable to fulfil the duties either of concert
singer or instructress, and returned once more
to Europe, where she has since lived in retire-
ment.
	It is sad to think that one so bright, so much
admired and so successful should die in poverty,
but such is often the fate of greatness. It was
meet that one, who had charmed the world with
her song should die at Munich and be cremated
at Gotha, two cities so famed as musical centres.
The very mention of these names brings to
mind thoughts of song and melody; they are
places all lovers of the divine art long to visit,
and it seems most fitting for one whose soul so
wedded to the art should die in such a place.
							A. W. C.


SCATTERED THOUGHTS.

	Dear sister:  I have read so many useful and
instructive pieces in this valuable paper; I have
long desired to throw in my little mite with


the rest of the Women of Zion, for I think we
as mothers and daughters in Zion, should all
put our little mite together, and help roll on
this great and glorious work in which we are
engaged in these the last days, and to help fill
up these precious columns; but as for myself
I feel very weak and unlearned to try such as
this, but I have a desire to try and learn, and
accomplish some little good while I am per-
mitted to live, and to fulfill the mission I was
sent here to do, and I realize it is a great and
important work which we as young mothers in
Israel have resting on our shoulders, to know
how to train our precious children which our
Father in Heaven has blessed us with, and
which are our glory.  Then, dear sisters, let us
all strive to gain wisdom and knowledge, that
we may know the true way to train them, and
to set good examples before them, for I know
this is our greatest work we were sent here to
do, and let us strive to have them grow strong
in the faith so they will not be "as chaff before
the wind," but be as ripe wheat that is in the
bind, where neither wind nor storms can hurt
nor destroy them, and which our Father in
Heaven will love to claim.  And although we
are weak let us ever press onward, be faithful 
and true, and may we be as the wise Virgins 
with oil in our lamps.
	  Your sister in the Gospel,
						    K. L. C. 
Jan. 15, 1889.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	On Tuesday, Jan. 22, Senator Hoar, of Mass.
was re-elected to the United States Senate for
a term of six years.   His re-election was unan-
imous.
	Miss Amelia B. Edwards, who is now finish-
ing a tour of twenty lectures in Northern
England and Scotland, and has two or three 
rounds to make in other parts of the King-
dom before April, is receiving earnest invita-
tions to visit the United States to speak on
Egypt, Greek Art, Woman in Ancient Egypt;
Fiction, etc:
	Geo.  Wm.  Curtis, in the Easy-Chair of
Harper’s Monthly says: “The admission of
women to the school suffrage question is really
the overthrow of the last barrier.  If, as
lately, woman may properly and peacefully,
without insult or abatement of her modest
womanly dignity, and without the least harm
to her “sphere,” go to the polls and drop a
ballot for a member of a school committee
in one box, it is only Harlequin who argues
that she cannot with the same propriety drop a
ballot in the next box for Mayor.”
	On Monday afternoon  a meeting of the ex-
ecutive committee of the N.  W. S. A., was
held at the Riggs House.  The question of
union with the American Woman Suffrage
Association was discussed.  Miss Anthony,
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, of Indiana, and
others speaking in favor of union, Mrs. Shat-
tuck, of Massachusetts, and Mrs. Perkins, of 
Ohio, speaking against it.  It was voted that a 
committee of eleven be appointed by Miss
Anthony to confer with the committee of
eleven appointed from the American W. S. A.
Miss Anthony was instructed by vote to include
herself as one of this committee.  The com-
mittee are as follows:  Miss Anthony, chair-
man; Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker, Mrs. 
May Wright Sewall, Mrs. Virginia L. Minor,
Mrs. A. S. Duniway, Mrs. Laura M. Johns,
Mrs. Sarah M. Perkins, Mrs. Clara B. Colby,
Mrs. Jane H. Spofford, Mrs. Lillie Devereux
Blake, Rev. Olympia Brown.  This committee 
are understood to be about equally dvided
for and against.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah 	Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 			
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
				Salt	Lake City Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

Salt Lake City,					February 1, 1889.


[Column 1]
ANNUAL WASHINGTON CONVENTION.
	The Twenty-first Annual Convention of the
National Woman Suffrage Association convened
in the Congregational Church, Washington, D. C.,
on Monday, January 21st, at 10 a.m., Miss Susan B.
Anthony in the Chair.  After some appropriate
opening remarks by the venerable Chairman, on
the anniversary and so on, she introduced the
Hon. A. G. Riddle, another veteran worker in
the cause of the enfranchisement of women.  His
speech was full of good logic and withal abound-
ing in humor, and it is to be regretted we have
not space to reproduce it in full, but we give here
some extracts, which we consider exceedingly in-
teresting, and which are out of the usual routine of
the speeches generally made on the subject.
	"You remember, you have heard, it may be, of
the Grimke sisters.  You have not?  If you go
down the street to a bookstore in this city and ask
for Mrs. Birney's Life of Sarah and Angelina
Grimke, you will get one of the best books, I de-
clare to you.  It is one of the best bits of Ameri-
can biography that has been given to the public
in these later years.  You will see the beautiful
lives of Sarah and Angelina Grimke, born on the
one side of Hugenot parentage, in South Carolina,
and on the other of ancestors who served in the
old revolutionary war—rich, wealthy slave-hold-
ers.  They belonged to the order of Friends; but
Sarah grew weary and sick of the home customs,
and escaped from her native city to Philadelphia;
and Angelina followed her.  The Friends have
always permitted women to speak, at least in their
meetings—they do not call it a church—though
they did afterwards cut off the Grimke sisters be-
cause they spoke to mixed audiences—mainly,
they said, because Angelina married Thomas
Wells.  Well, they didn't both marry him— but
they were both cut off.  Angelina was much the
younger.  They were the first to give the call for
the emancipation of the slave. They became the
first connected with the abolitionist societies; and
mark, it was proposed, curiously enough, that
women were to be enlisted in the emancipation of
the slave from physical bondage—the victim of
the auction block and the whipping post.  But no
matter about that, although it stirs my rather
elderly blood to think of it.  Women were to be
interested.  They were to pray.  Women always
were permitted to pray.
	"Ultimately it was supposed that pious women
might be enlightened by their fellow women, and
the call was made for the "parlor meetings," and
Sarah and Angelina conducted them.  Angelina
was a born orator.  She was preaching the Pente-
cost.  So they met in the parlors, and Sarah and
Angelina talked to the women, and it got talked
about outside.  Sarah was less gifted in speech,
but, if anything, more fiery in temperament.
[Column 2]
Then a Baptist clergyman proposed to give them
the session room of his church.  It was larger
than a parlor, and they held an anti-slavery meet-
ing to be addressed by the Grimke sisters.  The
minister kindly condescended to open it with
prayer.  Then he started down the aisle and
found an intermeddling abolitionist sitting back
where he could hear some little of the drippings,
and he took him by the shoulder and pushed him
out of the door. Men were not going to be permit-
ted to hear women speak.  Finally it went on
until they were invited to another session; and
then it was found that a few men had stolen in,
and these men went off and told of everything
that happened—as some men do about women—
and the matter became talked about and got into
the newspapers, and there was reprobation.
	"Finally, it went so broadly on that a church
could not be found in one neighborhood large
enough, and they held a great mixed meeting of
nearly a thousand people in a barn, and a
reverend gentleman opened it with prayer.  Then
he deliberately went out, saying that he would as
soon be caught robbing a hen-roost as remaining
to hear a woman make a speech.  And he was a
clergyman!  And the wonder is that the world is
infidel!  Great God! was he afraid that she was
going to unsex herself right there in the barn?
Ladies, if there is anything that is more abhorent
and obscene, and more obscenely abhorent to me
than any other form of speech I ever heard, it is
that woman could unsex herself.  Did you ever
hear of a man's unsexing himself? (laughter).  I
saw one of them here the other afternoon or
evening standing by a mild punch bowl—I am
glad to think that the punch was very mild—and
two young ladies were feeding him with a spoon
(continued laughter).  He was a dude.  He would
be a young lady if he could, and as he cannot, he
does all he can to show to the world that he is not
a man.
	"Unsexing!  Why God stamped sex not alone
upon the woman's figure.  Her heart, her soul,
her intellect—everything that pertains to her—is
of her sex.  Whether for good or for ill, whatever
she does, she does as a woman.  Was there ever
an instance in the world where woman has been
enlightened, has been taken along any line or
channel of improvement, that she has not become
more womanly?  Whatever she does do, suppos-
ing she does all the things that a man does, she does
not do them as a man does, but she does them as
a woman does them; and she could do them in no
other way—good, pious, Doctor Dix to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
	"But I was dealing with these Grimke sisters,
and I might as well follow that subject a little
further.  Do you know that they were questioned
not only by the outside, jeering world whom
everybody wants to be jeered by, but even their
own friends began to question them; and Sarah,
in response to the criticisms, began to assert the
right of a woman to make speeches.  That is
where Woman's Right was born.  Their right to
speak was questioned; their right even to speak
to women; and boldly their right to address mixed
audiences was challenged, and Sarah replied
fearlessly.  Ah, she was a born reformer.  When
God gets ready to do a thing, or to have it done,
there is always somebody somewhere to do it;
and it is usually the most unexpected person in
the world.  It usually comes from the most unex-
pected quarter of the world.  The Messiahs have
all come that way—and they have all been rejected,
every one of them; and those that have been re-
ceived you may rest assured they do not come of
God. The genuine Messiahs have all come
stamped with suffering and martyrdom."
	Mr. Riddle's speech throughout was full of
witticisms, making a pleasing variety, and there
were many others equally logical, but not so
abounding in fun.  The suffrage ladies were
highly favored in having Senator Blair address
[Column 3]
the Convention, as it is a strong point gained
when men of national reputation come forward
on the platform of a woman's convention and
speak favorably and forcibly upon the subject of
woman's enfranchisement.
	We shall make some extracts from the speech
of Senator Blair in our next issue of the paper,
and shall publish in full the address of the Utah
Delegate, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who spoke
upon the disfranchisement of the women of Utah
and was very favorably received and several
times greeted with warm applause.
	One of the best results of the Convention has
been the probable uniting of the two great wings
of woman suffrage into one body, viz., the National
W. S. A. and the American W. S. A. both of
them striving for the same end—the enfranchise-
ment of all women, but holding apart on account
of some seemingly rather immaterial differences
in methods of procedure and other unimportant
matters, that might, one would think, be easily
harmonized.
	We heartily rejoice in this proposed consumma-
tion, believing it will be for the best and most,
permanent good of all women, and of the entire
nation, and that this union will strengthen the
cause and hasten the day when woman every-
where throughout this goodly land will attain
political, social and religious freedom guaranteed
as much to her as to her brother man.
	"The name of the united society will be the
National American W. S. A.," neither Associa-
tion being willing to give up its own name, there-
fore the decision arrived at by the Committee
was to unite the two old names.  The new con-
stitution which has been proposed provides that
the Association vote as a delegate body, instead
of as a mass meeting.  Men and women will be
admitted on equal terms, and both will be equally
eligible to office.
	The Boston Woman's Journal says:  "The
union may now be regarded as almost a settled
thing.  Its formal completion is in all probability
only a question of a few weeks."


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	On Thursday, January 31st, at 3 p.m., a party
of ladies assembled, by invitation, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. M. Y. Dougall, to celebrate the 
birthday of Sister Zina D. H. Young, who, on
that day, reached the 68th anniversary of her
birth.  The party had been arranged beforehand
by Mrs. Dougall and Mrs. Beattie, two of the 
daughters of the late Brigham Young, and to
whom Sister Young has been a mother in very
deed; their own mother, Mrs. Clarissa R. Young,
having died while they were children.  Mrs.
Dougall's elegant parlors were thrown open and
were well filled with guests, the invited friends
and co-laborers of Mrs. Young, in whose honor 
this goodly company had been called together.
Congratulations were in order and the conversa-
tion was general until about 5 p.m., when a delic-
ious lunch was served in dainty style, by young
ladies, whose charming appearance gave zest and
tone to the sumptuous collation.
	When all had partaken of the bounties prepared
for their delectation, Mrs. Dougall, the hostess,
proposed that the party resolve itself into a
meeting, and Mrs. M. I. Horne, was unanimously
appointed to preside.
	The meeting opened by singing the favorite
hymn "O My Father," etc., Prayer was offered
by Sister M. A. Freeze.  Sister Horne made a
few opening remarks, appropriate to such a
gathering and such an occasion and congratulated
Sister Zina in having so successfully labored in
the interests of Zion and so forth.  Sister Sarah
M. Kimball and other ladies followed in the same
or a similar strain, and Sister Zina responded in
grateful acknowledgement of the honor tendered
her and gave some items of experience and ex-


pressed fervently her good wishes for all present.
Subsequently songs of Zion were sung <in ton> by some
of the sisters and also the interpretation given,
and it was a time of rejoicing, a spiritual feast to
all who participated therein. 
	Sister Jane S. Richards came in during the
meeting and very happily responded to the invita-
tion of Sister Horne to say a few words, although
she had not been present during the first part of
the evening.  It was the the birthday anniversary
of Sister Richards as well as that of Sister Young 
though the former lady is two years younger. 
Sister Richards had been to Ogden by special in-
vitation of her children to spend a part of her
birthday with them.  But in response to the invi-
tation of Sister Young’s daughters, came in to
show her appreciation and friendship, and join
with the other sisters in congratuations and re-
spect to Sister Zina, who now fills the place of
honor in the Relief Society of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, viz. the
Elect lady.  Sister Jane S. Richards is her first
Counselor and Sister Bathsheba W. Smith her
second Counselor.  The party was indeed a very
enjoyable one in many respects, and a sweet spirit
of love and harmony pervaded every breast.
There were several of the widows and of the
daughters of the late Pres. Young present.  At the
close of the meeting the Doxology was sung and 
a benediction pronounced by Sister M. W.
Wilcox.
	The EXPONENT offers its sincere congratula-
tions to Sister Zina D. H. Young and Sister Jane
S. Richards, wishing for them many happy re-
turns of the day, with renewed prosperity and
joy in their labors for the welfare of Zion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	
	THE Secretaries of the Relief Society in this
Stake of Zion are hereby particularly requested
to prepare correct semi-annual reports, and for-
ward them not later than the 25th of February,
to the Stake Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard,
No. 60, Fourth South St., Salt Lake City, in order
that a full and complete report may be made in
time for the Stake Conference. By order of Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne, President Relief Society,
Salt Lake Stake.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the Y.
L. M. I. Associations is particularly anxious to
obtain correct semi-annual reports from each
Stake of Zion. These should be forwarded so as
to reach her not later than March 10th, so as to
enable her to compile them in time for General
Conference on April 6th. The secretaries of the
several Stakes are therefore desired to send
promptly to Mary E. Cook, 323 East, Third South
Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the
Primary Associations is desirous of obtaining a
full report from each Stake of Zion for the com-
﻿plete report to be prepared in time for the April
Conference, and this semi-annual report should
be ready ten days before, or about the 25th of
March. Consequently the reports from all points
ought to be in the hands of the Secretary as
early as the 10th of March at the latest, which
would give her then only two weeks time to pre-
pare them. It is a very important thing, and the
Presidents of Primary Associations in the several
Stakes of Zion, should see that this matter is
properly attended to, both as to correct figures
and statements and date of sending. Forward
the Stake reports to Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton,
No. 115 Third Street, Salt Lake City.
	"FREEDOM'S CONQUESTS" is a wonderful show-
ing of facts and figures in relation to the spread
of Woman Suffrage in America, Africa, Europe,
Asia and Oceanica.. The book is by Hamilton
Wilxoc, New York City, an able worker in the

[Column 2]
suffrage cause, and one who has always spoken
without prejudice of the suffrage in Utah. The
story is briefly told, and one might say the whole
is alphabetically and mathematically arranged,
for the writer has given the number of square
miles of islands and countries, and the number of
inhabitants, and so forth. Mr. Wilcox says,
"The cold facts are as usual beyond the greatest
achievements of fancy." "The figures are all
from the latest officials returns and estimates."
We shall be pleased to make some extracts from
the pamphlet at some future date.
	THE annual meeting of the Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association of the Seventeenth
Ward was held in the upper hall of the ward
meeting house, Tuesday evening, January 29th,
Mrs. Julia C. Howe presiding with ease and
dignity. There were quite a number of young
ladies present and several visitors from other
wards; and the Bishop's Counselor, Alonzo Hyde,
was on the stand. After the usual opening
exercises minutes of the last annual meeting were
read and accepted, and the President announced
the reading of a manuscript paper, entitled, "The
Quarterly Review." Miss Lucy Woodruff stepped
forward and read in an easy and graceful manner,
the editorial, "Stray Thoughts," and other con
tents of the paper, "The Gifts of the Gospel,"
Sketch of Gen. Geo. Washington; also of the life of
Jared from the Book of Ether, and a Correspond-
ence between Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall and Miss
Ella Dallas, in which there was much food for
reflection and comment. During the intervals
between the reading of each article short speeches
were made by the sisters present—Sisters E. S.
Tayor, M. I. Horne, R. B. Pratt, and E.
B. Wells. After these exercieses were concluded,
Coun. Hyde occupied a few minutes in speaking
to the young ladies. Programme for the next
meeting was read by the Secretary, and the meet-
ing closed with singing and benediction, which
was pronounced by Sister B. W. Smith. This
Association we consider a very progressive one,
and a pattern in many respects for others to
follow. The young ladies of the ward have ac-
quitted themselves creditably on several occasions
in special meetings and entertainments, and have
shown that they were really engaged in the
cause of improvement, mentally, morally and
spiritually.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	Nancy Broadbent Folsom, wife of Hyrum P.
Folsom, after suffering thirty-one days with pleuro
pneumonia, died at 1:50 p.m. January 12, 1889, in
this city, at her residence in the Nineteenth Ward,
near the Warm Springs; aged 46 years, 7 months
and 24 days. Deceased was born in Hursh, Ash-
ton, Underline, Lancashire, England, May 18, 1842. 
She was a devoted wife and mother; a friend to
the poor, and a faithful Latter-day Saint, and 
many will mourn her loss. She leaves a family of
six children, four sons and two daughters, the
youngest four years old. 
	On January 15th, as previously announced, the
remains left the family residence, arriving at the
Nineteenth Ward meeting house at 11 a.m., which 
was crowded on the occasion. Appropriate and 
consoling remarks were made by Elders Joseph
H. Felt, Edwin Frost, Martin Lenzi, Bishop Geo.
Romney and Robert Smith. The funeral cortege
was one block and a half long. 
	In connection with her demise we have received
the following statement, which is somewhat re-
markable: 
	"As Sister Broadbent was getting in the car-
riage to go and see the remains of Mrs. H. P.
Folsom, her daughter, she received a telegram
from Terra Haute, Indiana, that another daughter
of hers, Mrs. C. M. Daggett, expired at 7:45 p.m.
There was thus only about three hours difference 
[Column 2]
in the time of the death of the two daughters. It
is also a remarkable fact that Sister Broadbent
dreamed ten days ago that her daughters were
both dead, and that Sister Folsom died first, and
so it happened." 
	Adding to this singular coincidence, the funerals
of the two sisters were conducted at the same 
hour and day, although two thousand miles apart.
	
ANNIVERSARY OF NUPTIAL DAY OF HYRUM AND
NANCY B. FOLSOM. UTAH PENITENTIARY,
DEC. 29, 1886.

To-day I've been thinking of thee,
And scanned all the scenes of my life,
And a bright spot, Nancy, to me,
Is the day you first were my wife. 

But last night I thought I was old,
When I viewed myself in this Pen.;
To-day as the scenes I unfold
I live all my youth o'er again. 

I can see away back in the years,
As far as a mortal can look,
And read all our past joys and fears,
Like words on a well printed book.

Don't you mind what father did say,
When you both were talking of me,
That you could have Hyrum the day
That he would come back o'er the sea,

Or remember that happy day,
When autumn flowers were all in bloom
Chatting carelessly we strayed away
Just inside of mother's big room.

And then, with our backs to the door, 
Our hands on the old mantle shelf,
I whispered you could leave me no mo
Till I had you all to myself. 

I can see now that scene of bliss,
When you in your bridal array,
Gave me fondly that sealing kiss,
Just Twenty years, Nancy, to-day.

Then when for my sake you did part
With all the dear friends of our youth,
And did join with me hand and heart
To build us a home in the south.

In scanning the crosses through life,
And our darlings laid in the cold grave,
'Twas then in the struggle and strife,
I found you so true and so brave.

But one scene I ever recall,
And truthfully say to you, dear wife,
That deed is the best act of all
To me, it is the gem of your life.

You may have done so in dread,
When you gave me Dear Annie's hand,
But with all your sorrows you said
You knew it was Father's command. 

I honor the vows I took then,
That I would be faithful and true,
And now I'm here in this Pen
For those vows to Annie and you.

I soon once again may be free,
But no prison walls can divide
That love, dear wife I have for thee,
Since the day you first were my bride. 

But there are many bright days in store,
And blessings awaiting for thee,
When prison and bondage no more
Will sever my dear wives from me.


A SLEIGH RIDE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I wonder if it would not interest you to get
a glimpse of this north country by going with
us, in the senses, for a sleigh ride this bright
winter's day. Come—try the elixir of the
keen fresh air and the accompaniment of the
merry jingle jingle of the bells.
	Here we go through the streets of the little


[Column 1]
town and it don't take many minutes to pass
the houses and enter the woods. The horses
are as exhilerated as we are, and they canter
on at a great pace, making the snow fly in our
faces; the desire to laugh is irresistible, and
peal after peal echoes down the road—now we
are passing through an avenue of trees of such 
great size and height, I'll not make you stare
by guessing even how many hundred feet high
some of them are; but how close and straight
they grow, like sentinels guarding the forests
from the ruthless hand of man; but, ah! they
are not strong enough for that, even in their
might, for see—here comes the wood-chopper
his ax over his shoulder, and his sharp eye
marking the highest and mightiest monarch
of the forest, on which to show his skill, and
here we are in sight of a "clarin" made by his
brawny arms; there is his little cabin with the
smoke curling gracefully up from the chimney,
into the pure clear air. How funny the
stumps look, capped with "Tam o' shanters" of
snow, some rakishly careering over on one side,
in a 'tipsey stuck up style, as though they were
badly cut up, or more properly speaking, cut
down. Here we are, in sight of the loveliest
green grove of pines, and such a pretty bit of
valley with the river winding through, and all
about us mountains; mountains of green, some
just silvered with "the beautiful," while in the
distance some o'ertopping all covered with the
pines which stand like sheeted ghosts; their
tips just catch the sun's rays, and are crowned
with the delicate roseate glow that artists
strive in vain to duplicate. Now we are near-
ing another patch of woods and only the rosy
clouds that hang above that mountain, hold
the glow of the sunshine.  How dim and silent
is this forest; no sign of life save that we bring; 
but, O, the picture! How beautiful. See, how
the undergrowth of young trees and shrubs
are covered with filmy veils of lace. Verily
Jack Frost thou art a dazzling genius; no lace 
webs that Royal Trosseaux can show, can com-
pare with the intricate, delicate patterns here.
Doesn't it look as if we might lift the frost
from that young pine, as easily as the veil from
the face of a blushing bride!
	Still we race on. Ah—here is indeed a de-
serted village; but not of the Goldsmith type.
The low log cabins stand with doors hospitably
open, yet no sign of  life, within or without.
Look at that queer sign, the letters formed of
quartz specimens, "Assay Office," is it? It
must have been some artistic chap who held
forth there. No ruddy glow comes forth from
the cavernous depths of yon black-smith
shop door, nor sound of music from the silent
anvil. O, look! a covey of partridges just
ahead; what pretty creatures, and so odd with
their bright top-knots.  Well, well; here are
the remnants of the once flourishing mining
town of Eagle—a corner grocery, a saloon
with hotel attachments, a cottage here and
there, that looks as though inhabited. Three
men with pipes in their mouths and hands in
their pockets, staring in a suprised way at
our appearance; several yelping dogs surround
us as we stop for an instant, and some forlorn
chickens are huddled under the edge of the
saloon porch, and a still forlorner woman
peering through the window, are the only life
to be seen.
	Crack the whip—and away we go, for the
snow is like glass and the road in fine condi-
tion. Here we are now, at the garden beds of
our valley, where they raise the finest straw-
berries in the world for size and flavor, and
"praties" which, while we deprecate ther size,
as poor old Mike said "they're maley Major,
ain't they maley, though?"
	Here we are at "Old Mikes" cabin, where he
was found some weeks back by some men, sick
and alone, too far gone for the care and help
they brought him to town for, poor old chap,
he was quite a character and had "foine
dhrames" as he once told us of visiting once

[Column 2]
more his native bantry. Let us hope his
'dhrames' are sweet where he quietly sleeps on
the hill-side under the deep snow. But while
I've been moralizing; we have entered a dense
forest again, and the sun shining through the
snow laden branches, dazzles our eyes with
the glitter of nature's diamonds. At length
we have reached the turning point—here is the
saw-mill; now, pray be careful Mr. Driver, and
don't upset us in that snow bank; now wait for
one moment and let us look about and take in
long inspirations of this delicious air, so 
freighted with balsamic odors and health;
think of spruce gum and be happy; look at the
great logs and see what lovely grains those cedar
planks show. Hurry on, for it won't do to let
the horses get cool now, so we must face the
wind and away on the homeward stretch.
Surely it is raining as we come out of the
depths of the timber, but no; we are only
passing through the clouds which are resting
in the little valley. The horses seem to scorn
"terra firma," and fairly fly, now they turn
toward home, one instant we are in among the
trees, where the light grows dim and then
dazzled with the lights on the snow. Tuck
the furs closer around you; how quickly we
came over that stretch of road past the "Gold-
en King Mill" and the long line of flume.
Through the last bit of woods and here is
"Sunset Peak" showing his snow-crowned
summit with the last rays of the setting sun
hanging like a halo round his hoary head.
Again the streets of the town and the warm
glow of the fire seen through the windows of
the cottage on "Gold Hill."
	Why, I hardly knew I was cold; yet the
thought of a warm fire is most agreeable and
such an appetite as I have brought back for
dinner; may good digestion wait on it, is all I
ask. Certainly our cheeks are rosier and our
spirits lighter for the ride. I hope it has been
a pleasant one for you.
	WOODINA.
	Murray, Idaho. Jan. 25, 1889.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y.  L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the St. Joseph Stake of Zion convened
at Thatcher, November 31st, 1888, President
Willmirth East presiding. On the stand, of
the Stake authorities, Prest. Christopher Lay-
ton and Counselors. Meeting opened by sing-
ing, "Once more we come before Thee, Lord."
Prayer offered by Patriarch Philemon Merrill.
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved; also the Stake and local reports.
	After the presidents had reported their
various wards, Bro Merrill, by request, gave a
brief report of the St. David Society, there be-
ing no lady representative of that ward
present.
	Coun. Mary L. Ransome spoke a short time
on the duties of mothers in training their
children in the principles of the Gospel. "We
should be more diligent in teaching them to
attend the Primaries,” etc.
	Meeting adjourned till 2. p.m. Benediction
by Coun. Wm. Johnson.	
	Afternoon session: Opened with singing and
prayer. Prest. East said: “It is the manifesta-
tions of the power of God that has gathered
us from the nations of the earth, and it is left
with us to be subject to the priesthood of God
that is placed upon the earth to guide us; it is
only the faithful that will stand the tests, etc;
it is therefore necessary that we seek diligently
for the Spirit of God to lead us in the paths of
right and rectitude. I am proud to represent
the women of Zion, and pray that I may ever
be found faithful in the performance of my
duties.”
	The Stake and local officers were pre-
[Column 2]
sented before the conference and sustained.
Prest. C. Layton and Patriarch Merrill occu-
pied the remainder of the afternoon, instruc-
ting the sisters in their various duties; were
pleased to know that the poor were cared for;
wished the different branches of the Society to
lend all the aid they could in assisting the
Indian missionaries in their labors. Among
other remarks said: "We should be humble
and prayerful at all times, that we may wield
an influence for good over our husbands and
sons. We are left to ourselves, and in conse-
quence of this, many are flaunting in the pomp
and pride of the world; it is therefore necessary
that we seek diligently to keep the command-
ments of God, that we may gain an inheritance
in His kingdom.”		
	The presidents of the various branches were
instructed to keep on hand material for cloth-
ing the dead. 
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Bishop John Taylor.
C. M. GUSTAFSON, Sec.

SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the San Juan Stake 
held their conference at Bluff, Nov. 27th, 1888,
Prest. Jane M. Walton presiding. Choir sang,
“The Coming Day.” Prayer by Prest. Ham-
mond. Singing, "Devotional Hymn.”  A
goodly numbor of the brethren were present,
including Prest. F. A. Hammond and Coun-
selors, and the Bishops of the Mancos, Burn-
ham and Bluff Wards, Prest Moiselle M. Halls 
and Mary N. Jones, of the Stake Presidency
of the Y. L. M. I. A.; also Prest. Julia Butt,
Stake Prest. of the Primary.
	Prest. Walton hoped to be dictated by the
right spirit while she endeavored to address 
the conference. Considered it a great blessing
to have the privilege of holding Relief Society
conference. It made her heart feel warm to 
see the sisters; felt that the Spirit of God had
been with us during our conference so far.
Knew of a surety that every principle of the
Gospel was true; would rather die than deny the
truth.	
	Minutes of the former conference were then
read and accepted.
	Prest Abigal Stevens of the Burnham Ward,
said it gave her pleasure to report her Society.
The sisters felt well and united: they held one
testimony and two work meetings each month.
Desired to continue faithful and true to the
end.		
	Sister Neilson reported the Bluff Ward So-
ciety. Said the sisters had done as well as
could be expected, owing to their few num-
ber. "If we will listen to the teachings and 
instructions of those in authority we will be
blest; realized there was a great mission for the
sisters to perform.
	Prest. Walton then resigned her position as 
Prest of the Bluff Ward, as she had moved
from that place. Prest. F. A. Hammond
honorably released her, and them made a few 
needed explanations.	
	Coun. Moiselle Halls reported the Mancos,
Society; said the sisters felt more united than
at last conference; held testimony and work
meetings regularly; were storing up grain.
"The teachers are very diligent.” 
	Bishop Nielson felt to return Sister Walton 
a vote of thanks; knew she had done a good
work, and had been very kind to the sick.
The Society at Bluff was then organized as
follows: Kisten Nielson, President; Agnes
Allen and Eliza Redd, Counselors; Jennie Al- 
len, Secretary; Ordella Allen, Treasurer.
Prest. Hammond moved that Sister Kisten
Nielson be honorably released from  acting
First Counselor to the Stake President. Martha
Hammond was then sustained as First and
Josephine Wood as Second Counselor to Prest.
Jane Walton.
The general and local officers of the Relief


[Column 1]
Society were sustained. Coun. Martha Ham-
mond spoke a few minutes, giving good coun-
sel. 
Coun. Wm. Halls said his advice to the sis-
ters was to devote themselves to their office 
and calling. Prayed God to bless all who 
had been called to fill the different positions.
	Prest. Hammond felt to endorse all that had 
been said by the sisters. Prest Walton ad-
journed the conference. Choir sang, “Improve
the shining moments.” Prayer by Bishop Geo.
Halls.
SARAH J. ROGERSON, Stake Sec.

BANNOCK STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
held in Rexburg, Nov. 17, 1888, Prest Tem-
perance Hinckley presiding. Meeting opened 
by singing. Prayer by Coun. Rigby.
Singing. Roll was then called, and minutes 
of previous conference were read and approved.
 The Stake and local officers were presented
and unanimously sustained. Stake Prest.
Temperance Hinckley was pleased to meet the 
sisters of the Relief Society; would liked to 
have seen more present. Exhorted all to 
come to their meetings. “If you feel deter-
mined to come, you can, for ‘where there’s a
will there’s a way.’” Earnestly advised the 
mothers of Zion to be prayerful and humble.
“Attend to your secret prayers, for much good
is derived from secret prayer. If you are de-
pressed in your feelings, if you will kneel 
down and pray God will help you, and your
burden will seem light.” Advised the mothers 
to bring up their children in the fear and ad-
monition of God; too much cannot be said on 
this subject. “The teachers of the Relief So-
ciety should be very diligent, and seek for the 
Spirit of God to help them to perform their 
duties in a right and acceptable manner, for a 
great responsibility is resting on them. You 
should visit the sick, and see that the poor are 
cared for.” Asked the blessing of the Lord to 
be with us to aid us in the truth and all good 
works.
	Stake Coun. Sarah A. Gunnel bore a strong 
testimony to the truth of this work; made some 
good and timely remarks; spoke very encourag-
ingly to the sisters. “Although you have 
many things bearing upon you in body and 
spirit you should not give up; remember, ‘No
cross, no crown,’ and press forward with re-
newed diligence.”
	Stake Coun. Telitha J. Helm spoke with 
power; exhorted the mothers to inculcate good
principles in the bosoms of their children.
“You should teach them to be pure, virtuous 
and chaste, even as our Father in heaven and 
His son Jesus Christ are. Should we curse 
our enemies? No; we should pray for them; as 
Jesus said, when nailed to the cross, “Oh, God!
forgive them, for they know not what they
do.” We should pray for the missionaries 
who are laboring for the work of God, and 
those who are pleading for us in the halls
of Congress. We should live pure lives,
so that when we are called to lay down our 
bodies we can rise crowned heirs in the king-
dom of God.” Asked for the Spirit of God to
rest on all the branches of the Relief Society 
in Zion.
	Sister Sarah A. Barnes bore her testimony 
to the truth of this work. “If any one of 
you do not have a knowledge for yourselves 
that this is the true kingdom of God, take 
the Doctrine and Covenants, Book of Mormon 
and Bible and study them carefully, and it is 
so plain any one can have a knowledge, if they 
will seek with prayerful hearts. I feel that a 
large portion of the Spirit of God has been with 
us; we have heard many good things, and we 
should try to remember them and put them in 
practice. The counsel in regard to bringing 
up our children is good and from God.” Asked
God to bless us and help us to do right.
	Stake Coun. W. F. Rigby exhorted all to 
faithfulness in keeping the commandments of 
God. “We are living in a wicked world, for
many curse God, and it behooves you as 
mothers in Israel to be very prayerful, for un-
less you seek the Father you will not be able 
to keep your sons and daughters from the con-
taminating influences of the outside element.
I realize that a great responsibility rests on the
mothers of Zion; you each have a mission to
perform; if you can bring up your children to 
be honorable and to be saved in the kingdom 
of God, you have done a great work. Visit 
the homes of the sisters; encourage them, and 
invite them to come to meeting.” Gave many 
good and timely instructions. Asked God to 
bless the sisters of the Relief Society.
	Prest. T. E. Ricks addressed the conference;
expressed his approbation of the work of the 
Society. Said he was more than pleased with 
the remarks of the speakers; advised the sis-
ters to prepare in time for the next conference,
and be there, “and you that are here will feel,
when you go home, that you have been richly 
repaid for coming, for a large portion of the 
Spirit of God has been here. You should be 
strict in every word and act, so you can gain 
confidence in each other; cultivate a spirit that 
will bless and comfort your sisters; when any 
one is cast down cheer them up. I think we 
are as free from talking about our neighbors 
as any place I was ever in.” Gave many 
good instructions, which sank deep into the 
hearts of all present; also spoke of the good-
ness of the Lord unto us. Asked God to bless 
us in all we are called to do.
	Prest. T. Hinckley said she was well pleased 
with the meeting; thought we had been well
repaid for coming, “and I have been highly 
pleased with the good instructions we have 
received from Prest. Ricks and Coun. Rigby.
I thank them for their kind remembrance.
	Conference was then adjourned for three 
months.  Closed by singing, ‘'Glorious things
of thee are spoken.” Benediction by Telitha
J. Helm.
SARAH A. BARNES, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A COMPARISON BETWEEN THE
CHARACTERS OF DESDE-
MONA AND PORTIA.

 BY ELSIE ADA-FAUST.

	In all his writings Shakespeare has probably
never presented  to us two characters which
would do more to earn for him the name of a
versatile writer than those of Desdemona and
Portia. So different, and yet so peculiar to
the positions which the writer makes them
occupy.
	In Portia we find the most intelligent and
intellectual woman that Shakespeare has
created. In Desdemona a creature fitted only
to grace a position of affection and dependence.
While in Portia we find tenderness and
womanly affection to a high degree, it is tem-
pered by her pride and reason. Desdemona's
reason is not great, and her pride is as noth-
ing, for Brabantio tells us:
	"In spite of nature, of years, of country,
credit, everything," she fell in love with what
she feared to look upon. To her love came as
a whirlwind, sweeping all former duties and
principles from her path; carrying her beyond
the love and obedience to her father, and lay-
ing in waste the condemnation of customs, the
sneers of enemies, the counsel of friends, every-
thing, that she might consecrate her thoughts
and life to the moon.
	To Portia love came only as a summer breeze,
fluttering softly her heartstrings; swaying her
thoughts to the rythmatic tune of hope; rip-
pling the surface of her calmer actions; sug-
gesting a treason to her father's wishes; and

[Column 2]

brushing aside a portion of her modesty to al-
low her to say:

"I pray you, tarry; pause a day or two
Before you hazard; for, in choosing wrong
I lose your company; therefore forebear awhile;
I here’s something tells me, but it is not love,
I would not lose you, and you know yourself
Hate counsels not in such a quality."

	She could make her love subservient to the
trial her father imposed upon the man who
was to win her. And, no doubt, although she
asks, "Is it not hard, Nerissa, that I cannot
choose one nor refuse none?" Had the hardship
been imposed upon her of accepting either the
Prince of Arragon or the Prince of Morroco,
she would have bowed submissively to her fate
with a sort of dignified indifference, and pro-
ceeded to be happy.
	How different Desdemona, who took her
marriage into her own willful hands with so
much disregard of her father's wishes, that he
must learn from a stranger of the event to
which he was so much opposed!
	In her only act of firmness, that of loving
Othello in spite of everything, she displays
her extreme weakness; she shows how plastic
is her nature, and how she is governed by her
strongest impulse.
	The one act usurps all the strength of
which her nature is capable, and in taking all,
appears like a column without a pedestal, the
greater it grows the weaker it becomes.
	All Portia's calm speculations about her
marriage, her witty criticism on the traits of
her many suitors; her hesitating to let Bassanoi
choose; while weaknesses in themselves, be-
tray a strength of character unknown to Des-
demona. They mean in her a determination
to be firm in her duty in spite of her inclina-
tion, to put aside all her own wishes, that she
might fulfill those of her father, and to ac-
cept the inevitable with all possible grace.
	As we cannot imagine Desdemona conceiv-
ing and carrying out the plan of the court
scene that Portia did, so it would be as hard to
think of Portia submitting to a jealous man's
frenzy enough to be quietly smothered with a
pillow.
	With Desdemona's narrowness of intellect
it would have been impossible for her to devise,
as did Portia, a plan to free her husband from
the debt to Antonia, nor can we contemplate
her preparing with a mixture of humor and
seriousness to carry out that scheme, and much
less think of her as successfully and bravely
performing her work so that all difficulties are
cleared away. Desdemona, when she says,

"So that, dear lords, if I be left behind, 
A month of peace, and he go to the war,
The rites for which I love him are bereft me,
And I a heavy interim shall support
By his dear absence. Let me go with him."

shows how hard it would have been to substi-
tute Portia's words of,

"O love, despatch all business, and be gone!"

How difficult for her to have tricked her hus-
band as did Portia; to have received that ring
with Bassanio's words,

	"Alas! it is a trifle;
I will not shame myself to give you this,"

as indifferently as did Portia. She very likely
would have sought in some timid way to at-
tract his attention and perhaps cried when she
found he treated a gift from her so lightly.
	And Portia, with her strength and independ-
ence begging to an unreasonable husband:
	"Kill me to-morrow, let me live to-night,"
would certainly be a strange picture. We can
paint her as being far more apt to calmly wave
him aside, while she deliberately went for
assistance, leaving him to digest a few bitter,
well chosen words.
	And as we have noted a difference in charac-


ter and of the events of their lives so far, so
we must take our leave of them in a different
way. Of Desdemona, dead through tamely
submitting to the wrath of a jealous being
whom she loved beyond everything, and to
screen whom she died with a lie on her lips.
As we leave this martyred creature, of whom
Emelia says,

“Moor, she was chaste; she loved thee, cruel Moor,”

we leave Portia surrounded by friends who
dearly love her, and by all that money can buy.
This creature of whom Jessica says:

“Why, if two gods should play some heavenly match,
And on the wager lay two earthly women,
And Portia one, there must be something else
Pawned with the other, for the poor, rude world hath not


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, in this city, Dec. 26th, 1888, of paralysis, Ann
Corbett, beloved wife of Daniel Corbett. "Give her of
the fruits of her hands, and let her own works praise her
in the gates."

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	We, the sisters of the Relief Society, unanimously
adopt the following Resolutions:
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sister and
friend, therefore,
	Resolved, That we do recognize in the death of our sis-
ter, Ann Corbett, the loss of an able and efficient treasurer
of the Second Ward Relief Society.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past labors and devotion

[Column 2]

Culbertson, who successfully removed the same, and
afforded considerable relief.
	In the year 1883 her husband died. After the accident
she was unable to visit the sick as formerly, but she would
give advice and medicines; still she continued to practice
as midwife until she died, which occurred September 3rd
1888.
	At her funeral, which was held at her oldest son's resi-
dence, a large number of people assembled, and the ex-
pressions of sorrow were plainly visible on every hand.
Every one felt they had lost a mother and a friend; one who
always had a kind word for them and good advice for their
children.
	She was the mother of ten children, eight of whom are
still living. She remained true to the cause she espoused
on the broad Atlantic, and died full of faith and hope.
		WM, N. PURRINGTON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
