VOL. 17.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1888.			NO. 4.


CONSOLATION.
I lifted the curtains of the morning, 
And I opened the windows of day, 
Peering thro' dim shadows of dawning,
That darkened the heavenly way;
I longed and I watched, for some token,
To heal a poor heart, that was broken.

I felt that some angel of pity,
Might have paused at the gateway of light.
Ere she entered the beautiful city,
Where there is no sorrow nor night,
And standing where sunlight was streaming, 
On the threshold in vision half-dreaming, 

In her beauty and loveliness glowing,
With the goal of her hopes just in sight,
Her white robes all gracefully flowing,
And dazzled with splendor so bright—
Gaze backward, beholding our grief,
Filled with yearning to give us relief.

Remembering the clouds and the darkness,
That had shrouded our earth-life below,
That mortal probation must know,
Retrospection would surely awaken
Regrets for the loved ones forsaken.

I listened, half-conscious of something,
A presence that beamed on my sight,
And I wondered if angels were noting
The rapturous joy and delight,
That gladdened the face of the woman
as she wafted a sigh for the human.

I pondered in fond expectation,
Of a message from regions above,
And I bowed in intense supplication,
In humility, meekness and love; 
But I heard only sighing and sobbing,
Tho' the great pulse of nature was throbbing.

I knew, by an inward suggestion,
That a presence of angels was near,
And a feeling, no language could question,
Thrilled thro' me and banished all fear,
As I thought of a promise once given,
When we spoke of our parting and heaven.

The mist on the mountain was fading, 
And the vision, so sweet, fled away,
And with it, the soft, sombre shading,
That encircled the earth, cold and grey;
And the sun, in his splendor arising,
The world with fresh light was baptizing.

The poet, now fully awakened,
Soliloquized, "What of the night?
Aye, what had the vision betokened,
That vanished so quickly from sight?"
But the morning broke forth into singing,
And the welkin with music was ringing.

The world was awakened to gladness, 
And the voices of night were no more; 
But the echoes of sighing and sadness,
Had pierced to a far distant shore;
And the Father, with infinite feeling,
Had poured out the balm of His healing.
E. B. W.


[Column 1]

[For the Exponent.]
THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

PART III.

WOMEN IN LITERATURE
	"Such a superiority do the pursuits of litera-
ture possess above every other occupation, that
even he who attains but a mediocrity in them

[Column 2]

merits the pre-eminence above those that excel
the most in the common and vulgar profes-
sions."—HUME.
	The field of literature is delightful, full of
refreshing draughts, beautiful scenes, melodic
sounds.
	There are many delightful paths in life,
where one can wander at one's will and breathe
and live and learn, almost without an effort,
but there is a fair, beautiful, winding path,
tempting to the soul, which leads into a broad
and glorious field, where the multitude fain
would revel, but only the choice few can enter.
The field of literature. In this charming place
all the senses are awakened, and tho' the body
may be in calm repose, the soul will still, in
the keenest sense, enjoy all the pleasures and
delights of life. In sweet meditation the
silver linings peer through the dreary clouds
and reveal the brightness and glory of the
heavens; the quiet, sombre dream blends with
the deepening day, revealing the faintest, fair-
est tints and shades; the sea waves wash on the
sandy beach in grand and eloquent music, the
rivers flow and the brooks ripple in rhythmic
tone, the winds whisper and sigh through the
woods and waves, the birds carol in their happy
flight, and in their blending songs all breathe
the most melodious chorus ever heard on earth;
the lives and thoughts of the flowers are told
through their perfumes in most exquisite lan-
guage, and dreams and thoughts and visions
become most real. Oh, the elysian field! how
we fain would linger there forever, and yet 'tis
with the most cautious, fearing step we even
dare stray along the path and glance only a
moment within. Oh, to be lost in such a
place, where all that annoys and sorrows mankind
is forgotten, and the delicate imagery of life be-
comes a fair reality.
	Life is too real for many to dare venture
into this path, and among the Mormon women
there has, until later days, been too much need
for practical work and labor for them to devote
much time in this field, but genius and talent
will thrust itself forward, in spite of all obsta-
cles, and we claim, among the women of Utah,
some very thoughtful, sensible, beautiful and
bright literary workers.
	It seems so natural to refer to our dear, de-
parted leader, Eliza R. Snow, as the first Utah
woman who published a book. She it is who
has precedence in almost everything pertaining
to woman's advancement among her people.
Fortune favored her in every way for a public
life, and all her surroundings and opportunities
seemed to urge and encourage her into the
path of literature. So much has been written
in the columns of the EXPONENT of this noble
lady's work, that it would be a futile attempt
to strive to add more. Her work is before the
people like an open book, and every page dis-
closes deeds and thoughts, the noblest, the
purest, the grandest one can conceive. Her
history is interwoven with the history of the
Church in all their wanderings, their sojourn-
ings, their adversity, their prosperity. It is
useless to try to pay tribute to such a character,
she is beyond the pale of all that we can say.
As a writer, "Sister Eliza" (for so we love best
to call her), ranks in the highest class. Her
early poems and letters were published in the
Deseret News, and as early as 1856 she pub-
lished her first volume of poems. Her songs
were sung by the Saints in their wanderings on
the plains, and inspired and encouraged them
on their weary way. She wrote the sweetest
and dearest of hymns—"[-]Oh, my Father, Thou

[Column 3]

that dwellest"—and all who sing or hear it
sung, feel indebted to her for the beautiful
doctrine revealed through the precious inspired
lines. The Deseret News used to be the only
medium through which the early writers could
express themselves to the people, and the very
old numbers show some of the prettiest and
choicest verses from the pen of Sarah E. Car-
michael, a young and most gifted girl. She,
some few years later, while residing in Califor-
nia, gathered her poems together and published
them in a small neat volume. Not a verse
therein which did not stamp her a poet, one to
be recognized anywhere. Miss Carmichael
gave every promise of becoming one of the
most gifted poets of the century, but, alas for
fate, a cloud more dreadful than death fell
upon her, and "her thoughts were combinations
of disjointed things," and "the glance of melan-
choly is a fearful gift."
	As Miss Snow and Miss Carmicheal found
space in the News to publish their poetic
thoughts, so did our much honored and loved
sister, Hannah Tapfield King. Mrs. King
herself says: "From a child I had been accus-
tomed to write much, and in my early married
days wrote two books, one for my girls and
one for my boys; I also wrote considerable
poetry all my life." In June, 1853, Mrs.
King left her dear England for the wilds of
America. One almost dreads to think of a
soul full of learning and poetry, reared among
the "classic shades and bowers" of Cambridge
parting forever from all the fond associations
to enter an unknown land. She knew not
what awaited her, perhaps—not even a home,
certainly not the culture and comfort among
which she had been reared, and for which her
noble nature yearned, but conquering all feel-
ings of pride and reluctance, laying such on
the altar of her faith, she bade farewell to Eng-
land, and embarked on the ship Golconda for
her new home; like so many others of our
people, giving up worldly blessings for the hope
and belief that greater blessings would be be-
stowed upon her, and they were, and have been,
and now that she has passed from earth with a
most perfect, unfailing Faith, who knows, who
would dare to estimate the heavenly, eternal
joys that are hers.
	Her lofty soul soon found, even in this re-
mote, uncultivated land, food for the mind,
and it was Mrs. King's delight to give her
thoughts to the people. Her works are mostly,
whether prose or verse, of an historic nature,
and she leans to the sublime and grand more
than the simple and beautiful style. She pub-
lished, "Women of the Scriptures," "Songs of
the Heart," and "An Epic Poem," which was
historical of the Church. Her life was pure
and good and true; she aimed to be a perfect
woman, as her own beautiful words can tell:

		"I fought the battle all my life,
		Of outward foe and inward strife,
		The strife which flesh and spirit feel,
		As keenly as the barbed steel;
		For, oh! my soul has longed to be
		A perfect thing for God to see!"

	The reading public miss and mourn for Mrs.
King, and especially do the readers of the
EXPONENT, for her lines so often illuminated
its columns, and we miss her socially. Her
conversation was full of wisdom and entertain-
ing knowledge; she possessed a superior judg-
ment on literary works, and was not only an
apt and good critic, but a most pleasing and
interesting friend.


[Column 1]

	We have another English woman poet, who
wrote in early days for the News, and whose
style is rather similar—Emily Hill Woodman-
see. Adversity, injustice and hostility always
seem to urge Mrs. Woodman[---] to call her
Muse, that she may express her feelings; and
great events and anniversaries also call forth
her poetic fire. The journey of Mrs. Wood-
mansee to these valleys was enough to kill
within her all desire, all aim to become any-
thing, almost all desire to live, for she journeyed
on foot twelve hundred miles, pushing along
a handcart, which held her bedding and pro-
visions. What will! What indomitable courage
for a young woman to undertake such a
journey, and what sublime faith she must have
had! A verse of Mrs. Woodmansee's own
can better tell her nature as a woman, her style
as a poet:

	"Keep a brave heart, tho' the waves roll high,
		Let thine aim be true as the magnet's steel;
	Look unto God, with a steadfast eye,
		And trust Him always, in woe or weal;
	Man may deceive, but God is true;
		Mortals may pander to love of pelf,
	Life angels' visits, firm friends are few;
		Trust thou in God! and thyself."

	Mrs. Woodmansee writes very little at pres-
ent for the public, but seems more engrossed in
business matters, but her nature sometimes
finds rest in pouring forth her feeling thoughts
in rhyme.
	Times becoming more prosperous, and peo-
ple advancing in every way, there came a de-
mand for more publications, and publishing
houses, and the Juvenile Instructor and Morn-
ing Herald were started. To the columns of
the Instructor Miss Lula Greene sent some
charming productions, and shortly afterwards,
in 1872, it was decided to establish in Utah a
woman's paper, and Miss Lula Greene, the
grand-niece of Brigham Young, was installed
as the Editor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	This was a new era for the women of Utah.
The field, the beautiful elysian field was opened
unto them all. The EXPONENT has called
forth and urged all who wished to enter the
arena of literature, to pour their thoughts into
its columns, and to be refreshed by the draughts
of inspiration and learning which its pages
reveal.
	The Mormon women know it has been a
great boon and blessing unto them. The sisters
are, through its columns, made acquainted with
all the works of the societies and pleasures of
their reunions, the achievements of women in
all lines, here and elsewhere.
	The EXPONENT has also been a brave de-
fender of the women of Utah, and a most un-
answerable argument against the false accusa-
tions made concerning the serfdom and bond-
age of Mormon women, Miss Greene, now
Mrs. Lula Greene Richards, is one of our
sweetest poets, and though her editorial
work on the EXPONENT ceased in 1877,
she has ever since been a frequent and most
welcome contributor to its columns. Mrs.
Richards, better known as Lula, should cer-
tainly collect her poems and publish them. A
volume of them would grace the most choice
library. Lula's style is beautiful, simple and
pure, yet full of strength and principle. She
writes a great deal for children, both prose and
poetry, and seems in her happiest mood when
writing a song, a fable, an enigma or a story
for their amusement. As every one knows,
this style is most difficult, from its necessary
symplicity, but it is the style most fitting Mrs.
Richards. She aims at symplicity, and follows
it out in her life as well as her writings. It is
scarcely necessary to quote from Lula's poems,
they are so familiar in the homes of the Saints.
Our children sing her songs, work out her
enigmas, recite her poems and repeat her stories.
It is to be hoped that she may live many years,

[Column 2]

and in after time, when her family cares de-
crease, and her time may be given more to the
pleasure of writing, we may claim among us a
star, in that happiest phase of writing—Child-
ren's Literature—as bright as Louisa May
Alcott, which, though expressly for the young,
composed delights alike for all who care to read.
	In 1875, Mrs. Richard's family cares increas-
ing, she found it necessary to have an assistant
editor to the EXPONENT, and among her con-
tributors the present editor, Emmeline B.
Wells, came to her aid as a co-helper. Mrs.
Wells, though devoting much time to the
women's organizations, the grain saving, the
political and missionary work, is an indefatig-
able writer.
	When only eight years old she composed
verses which need not cause her to blush now
in later years, for they breathe the true essence
of poetry.
	Her literary work is confined almost entirely
to the EXPONENT, though a poem or a sketch
occasionally appears in the Contributor or
Tullidge's Magazine, and her verses, sketches
and criticisms are often copied in papers and
periodicals outside of Utah. Mrs. Wells has
had many flattering offers to contribute to
magazines, but has preferred to devote her
time and talent to her own people, only writing
an occasional article in defense of Mormon
women to publications elsewhere.
	Her work compels her to write on all sub-
jects, and in all styles, but her happiest style is
the ideal, the picturesque and the poetical.
When time allows, she grants herself the
pleasure of returning in imagination to her
New England home, and through the sketches
she produces we roam the dear old woods, go
blackberrying or nutting, gather ferns and
lilies from the winding brooks, and taste and
 scent the pleasures of a sadly sweet and pen-
sive childhood. Her poems are of a retrospec-
tive nature, and a memory full of the loveliest,
sweetest, dreamiest, happiest, saddest things
supplies her poetic nature with the material re-
produced in her touching verses. Mrs. Wells
has done a great deal towards bringing out
other writers, whose lack of confidence held
them from publishing worthy articles. She
also has written much for children, and her
songs are sung in the Sunday Schools and
Primaries. Her work in different ways is very
extensive, and all her time now is given to the
public; it is her greatest delight to help others
and aid in the advancement of women.	*
*	*	*	*	*	*	Mrs.
Wells' correspondence would form a very
entertianing and pleasing volume. Her letters
always contain the most interesting views, the
most delightful descriptions and the most
pleasant conversation. She is the recipient of
charming letters from many notable people,
such as the poet Whittier, Monsigneur Capel,
Madame Le Vert, Helen Hunt Jackson, and
many others, both poets and authors known to
the world.
	One of the most frequent and pleasing con-
tributors to the EXPONENT is Augusta Joyce
Crocheron, full of poetry, romance and song.
A strangely sweet writer, but a most perfect
and concise one.
	The first poem from her pen that touched my
feelings was those beautiful lines, "My Heart
and I." It reminded one very much of Mrs.
Browning, as do many other of her poems, but
they do not in the least copy after her; it is
only that same beautiful, mystic tone. Mrs.
Crocheron has had much to contend with, but
she never allows herself to lose the poetic muse,
and her prose writings are full of poetry. We
have written mostly of poetical work, but
Mrs. Crocheron has been one among the Utah
women to venture in another path. After
publishing her poems in the pretty volume
known as "The Wild Flowers of Deseret,"
and her biographies, called "Representative

[Column 3]

Women of Deseret," she turned her attention
to romance, and has three times claimed the
prize and medal offered by the Contributor
company for the best Christmas story. We
would fain say more of this gifted woman, but
space will not allow, for as we write so many
names appear before us worthy of mention
under this heading. Among the early volumes
of poetry published was one by Emily B.
Spencer, called, "Prose and Poetry," and one
since, entitled, "The Rose of Deseret," and this
lady has also contributed choice pieces to the
EXPONENT. Her style is similar to that of
Mrs. Woodmansee.
	A beautiful volume lies before me, its title,
"Autobiography and Poems by Hannah Corn-
aby."
	I never appreciated the work until a summer
some five years since, when in Spanish Fork,
this lady's home. She was beautiful in her
little quiet home, reminding one of a perfect
Saint, so quiet, so patient and so sweetly sad.
She led me through the oldest, oddest garden,
with a wicket gate and winding paths, and tall
lilacs, and hollyhocks, and roses, and weeds,
and herbs, and fruit trees, and currant bushes;
one might know the possessor of such a garden
was a poet; and her tone and voice and con-
versation only convinced me the more that she
was not only a poet but a saintly woman. Her
Autobiography is very poetical, and yet con-
tains such testimony and truth as to convince
one of the Gospel she espoused. There have
been some very interesting letters and remis-
cences contributed to the EXPONENT from the
pen of Helen Mar Whitney, and Mrs. Whitney
has also published books, one called
"Plural Marriage as Taught by Joseph the
Prophet," the other, "Why We Practice Plural
Marriage." Her writings are eagerly read,
and often call forth questions and discussions
from abroad, they contain such strong testi-
mony and doctrinal truth. Mrs. Mary J.
Tanner has published a neat volume of poems,
entitled, "Fugitive Poems," and is one of the
most interesting correspondents to the EX-
PONENT. Her "Leaves From my Journal,"
continued through several numbers, give
pleasing and cheering descriptions of different
sights in the Eastern States.
	Among the younger and most delightful
writers, we must certainly mention Lu Dalton,
whose inspiring and beautiful verses grace the
pages of the EXPONENT and Contributor.
Her poetry is of the highest rank, and also of
the most beautiful style. In the last number,
July 1, is contained a sublime poem from this
lady's pen, entitled, "Arise! Shine! For Thy
Light is Come." Of the lady herself I know
little, not even her name, but through her
correspondence and poems, I feel to know her
soul. The EXPONENT, I am sure, is proud of
such a contributor.
	Susie—Homespun—we had almost forgotton
you; no, not forgotten, but overlooked you,
because you have been so long silent. Do your
cares and missionary work keep you from tell-
ing us your experience in your gay, homely
way?
	Susie Young Gates, the daughter of Prest.
Brigham Young, is a literary light among our
young women. Her stories are full of life and
wit and pathos; her poetry is sweet and tender,
and her sketches are as amusing and interesting
as her bright conversation, which is all that
can be said. She should write more often, and
cultivate the talent so liberally bestowed upon
her. Oh, time! Oh, space! if only I could
command and control you for awhile! Here
I have written all the day, and such a host of
names are yet unmentioned.
	Ruby Lamont—Mrs. Maria Miller Johnson
—whose Christmas poem, published last winter,
was an Idyl of the sweetest kind—her style is
lofty, and approaches that of Mrs. Heman's
Miss Sarah E. Russell, a poet whose verses


have been publshed for years in the woman's 
repository, the EXPONENT, over the signature
of Hope.  Her sister also possesses in a large 
degree the poetic fire—Mrs. Belle Russell
Johnson.  Her poems published in the EX-
PONENT are signed, "Millicent."  She, like her
sister, is too modest to use her own name.  And
let me not forget to mention one whose verses
are always comforting and inspirational—Mrs.
Esther A. Bennion—whom, like some of the
others, I have never seen, but know and appre-
ciate their poetic taste.  I have not mentioned all
whose names are familiar to me, thro' bring a
reader and worker in the editorial rooms of
Mrs. Wells' office, but I should like to tell of
many others, and one more name I will speak
of here—Lillie Freeze—whose writings are
tender and full of fine feeling, revealing a
pathos that touches sensitively the inner soul
of woman.
	Of others who are entering the beautiful
field, pardon me, that I do not say more, but
write on, and your own works will tell your
story.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EIGHTY EIGHT.

Our fathers to their graves have gone,
Their strife is past—their triumph won;
But sterner trials wait the race
Which rises in their honored place—
A moral warfare with the crime
And folly of an evil time.

So let it be. In God's own might
We gird us for the coming fight,
And strong in Him whose cause is ours
In conflict with unholy powers,
We grasp the weapons He has given,—
The Light, and Truth, and Love of Heaven!

		JOHN G. WHITTIER.


THE FAITHFUL WORD.

BY ALICE C. JENNINGS.

"No word from God shall be void of power."—LUKE
37 (R. V.)

	"No word from the Lord shall be void!"
		Can it be that each promise is sealed
	With impression that never destroyed,
	Through the ages still stands unalloyed
		As a law that is never repealed?

	Then I surely may claim as my own
		Each message of power and of peace;
	May take it direct from the throne,
	As though to me uttered alone,
		Nor fear that its comfort shall cease.

	My God shall supply all your need
		Is the far-reaching promise so true
	That the pain and the sorrow decreed
	And the failures and sins that impede
		Through His help may be conquered anew?

	"I have blotted thy sins as a cloud!"
		Oh, tell me this promise once more!
	I rise but to fall, and am bowed.
	In repentance, to find I have vowed
		But a new-broken pledge to deplore.

	I am weak. Like the rocks by the sea,
		By its doubtings my spirit is torn,
	"My grace is sufficient for thee,
	Trust now, and at last thou shalt see
		The meaning of all thou hast borne."

	I am blind, O omnipotent Friend,
		And I know not the way I should go,
	"I will guide thee—will keep to the end—
	From the perils around will defend,
		And each step of the pathway will show."

	"Whosoever on Me doth believe"—
		O final completion of joy!—
	The conquest of death shall achieve.
	The fulness of life shall receive
		And pass to unfettered employ.


Smile on me, thou Spirit Divine,
	And open my vision to see
That riches, forgiveness, and strength,
And guidance, and conquest at length
	Are mine by unaltered decree.—Ex.

Auburndale, June, 1888.


OUR PRESENT SITUATION.

	The present time is one of vast importance
to the youth of Zion. The old, and those who
have borne the burden and hardship of intro-
ducing the Gospel to this generation, are pass-
ing away, and the continuation of the work,
they have begun will fall upon the shoulders
of their "sons and daughters;" and the questions
of to-day are, "Are they prepared for the great
responsibilities that will rest upon them?" "Do
they realize the magnitude of the undertak-
ing?" "Have they embraced the opportunities
for learning that have been given them from
time to time, and sought to obtain a knowledge
for themselves." The Lord says He will have
a pure people, a people that are free from the
evils of the world, that are willing to bear the
scoffs and jeers of the ungodly, all for His sake,
who died to redeem and bring us back into the
presence of our Father.
	How will we be able to stand unshaken, un-
less we know for ourselves, unless we live
prayerful and humble, pure, virtuous lives, be
chaste, honest and long suffering, seeking the
Lord with mighty faith? If we do not know
for ourselves that the Lord has truly spoken in
this our day, seek diligently with a contrite
heart, or we cannot stand the trials that are
before us in the near future. The "Lord has
seen fit to withdraw from the midst of His peo-
ple" their leaders and mighty men, and, as it
were, they are left to themselves for a season,
to try their integrity to see if they will still
cling fast to the iron rod.
	But it will be no trifling thing to be a Saint in
very deed in the future. The adversary
has great power over the people, insomuch that
many are falling by the way, and cannot stand,
even some that have had great manifestations
of the power of God. Then, how important it
is that we should be on the watchtower, that
we may be prepared for anything that may
come, that we may not be taken by sur-
prise, that our lamps may be full of oil, that
when the Bridegroom comes we will be ready
to receive Him.
	Our associations are organized for the pur-
pose of learning the principles of the Gospel,
and the sciences of life and health, and, in
fact, everything that tends to elevate, instruct
and ennoble the sons and daughters of Zion,
and prepare us for the great events and re-
sponsibilities that will rest upon the young in
the near future.
	Then, my dear sisters; let us strive to be one,
for the Lord says unless we are one we are not
His. Let us try to build each other up; put
away all evil from our hearts, and seek to do
good. Let us pray for our young sisters of
the presidency, that the Lord will inspire their
hearts, that wisdom and understanding may be
given them, and that the power of speech and
language may be theirs, so that they may be
able to impart the instruction necessary for
the advancement of our society.
	Praying for the blessings of God to rest
upon all who try to build up Zion, I remain,
	Your sister,
		S. A. FULLMER.
Y. L. Manuscript Paper,
	Orangevile, Emery County.


CORRESPONDENCE.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I came from Manti fully intending to make


an extra exertion in regard to writing for the
EXPONENT, but I find the truth of the adage
"Man proposes, but God disposes." I had
only been at home one day, and that was Society
conference, when a poor boy came to me, sick.
To make it intelligible, I must go back and
tell who he was or is. A small company of
nine members, came from Palestine last fall;
converts who had been baptized by our son.
They are all Germans or Russian Germans,
and very fine people. The rest got work, and 
left us but this young man, eighteen years old,
who remained most of the time with us, and,
owing to his natural abilities and kind disposi-
tion, we became much attached to him. He
called us "pa and ma." He went away to work
this spring, and came back sick, as we supposed,
with rheumatism and fever, but the doctor said
it was scrofula, and he would die of blood
poison. We have stood over him night and
day, and I hope never to witness such a thing
again.
	My object in giving this to the public is not
to tell about the poor boy's sufferings, but to
draw a moral, if I can properly express my
feelings, and tell my sisters how little we know
of the world, its sins and sufferings—that the
sins of the fathers shall be visited on the child-
ren is a terrible curse. Nevertheless the fiat
has gone forth, and it is unchangeable.
	One of the Palestine brethren tells us that
such things are common in that country, and
that the Arabs rot and die in, if possible, a
more terrible way. The crime for which
Sodom was destroyed is rotting them down
when mere boys.
	People will dare to criticise the Bible, and
say it must be a terrible God who would order
whole nations to be slain, sparing neither
women nor children. But God knew their
natures, and knew that wherever the seed came
in contact with Israel it would pollute them.
God knows many things, which we ignorant,
short-sighted mortals cannot understand, nor
do not dream of. What do those living in
pure homes, with healthy children around
them, know of rottenness and corruption? It
does not come under their observation; their
imagination cannot embrace it. We hear of
the wickedness of the world, but from the pure
atmosphere of our home circles we do not
trouble ourselves about the sins we do not have
to answer for. Our husbands are virtuous,
and our children are pure, and we grieve that
God should have laid a commandment on His
people to keep them so.
	He says, "If I will that I shall raise up a
pure seed unto myself, I will command my
people." Individuals are rotting, nations are
rotting, and disease and death are strewn
broadcast and transmitted to posterity.
	If we could visit the hospitals, we would see
sights to make the strongest shudder, for our
own fair land is not free from this terrible curse,
nor the crime that breeds it. And yet the
country is indignant that men should marry
and raise pure children, and throw the protec-
tion of God's law about the family circle.
Men must be persecuted and thrown into prison
for carrying out the laws of God, and protect-
ing their wives and children, while bagnios
are licensed for the "protection of respectable
people."
		M. J. TANNER.


Miss May W. Whitney takes the place held
by Maria Mitchell as professor of astronomy
at Vassar College.
	Our laws about dower, about divorce, about
defense against husbandly squandering of
estates, about the holding of property, will
never be what they ought to be until there are
a great number of women with severest legal
acumen, able to shape statutes and confront
courts on these questions.—Dr. Talmage.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	 Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the East Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JULY 15, 1888.


[Column 1]

OLD FOLKS' EXCURSION.

	The regular annual excursion of the OLD FOLKS
of this city and adjacent towns and settlements,
came off on Thursday, July 12, under the manage-
ment of the "Old Folks' Committee," that has
made such a complete success of these excursions,
year after year, and has given the aged so much
real enjoyment in tho declining years of their
lives. The destination this time was Lehi, and
right here we cannot forbear repeating the expres-
sion made by Elder George Goddard on the last
memorable occasion, both on account of its origin-
ality, and also that our readers may know to whom
the idea was first suggested, that has since de-
veloped so much benevolence and reverence for
those whose days are sad and sober, and who are
watching the sunset of life, more than the morn-
ing of its rising. Bro. Goddard remarked, in ad-
dressing the audience at Lehi: "When I pass be-
hind the veil, my first work shall be to inquire for
the good angel who first whispered to my colleague,
C. R. Savage, the idea of these excursions."
	Bishop Cutler, of Lehi, and a large number of
brethren and sisters, had made every preparation
possible beforehand, that the old folks might have
an enjoyable time. The grove where they met is
only about 200 yards from the U. C. depot. The
ground was cleared and the shade made complete;
one thousand feet of table room was constructed
and provided with seats, also extra seats; a fine
shower in the morning had laid the dust, so that
all was as comfortable as possible. The com-
mittee on decorations had ornamented the tables
with flowers, and flags, banners, mottoes, etc.,
were profuse. The Lehi brass and silver bands
were on hand, playing their sweetest strains.
	Besides the old people, the committee and visi-
tors, His Excellency, Gov. West, accompanied
the party. First on the programme after the arrival
was the serving of the picnic, the bands playing
during the time.
	At one p.m. the exercises commenced by the
singing of the Old Folks' Choir, "Ere the Sun
goes down." Prayer by Elder George Goddard.
Music by the band. Address of welcome, Bishop
T. R. Cutler, who thanked the committee for
bringing the party to Lehi, and expressed himself
pleased at the Governor's presence. Music on
bagpipes, W. C. Dunbar, and by the bands, "Hail
Columbia. Bro. Savage introduced Gov. West,
whose speech we give as reported:
	"This, to me, is a very novel experience, but a
very agreeable one. I have often met with gather-
ings of young people, but never before with
gatherings of the old. When first I came to Utah
I heard of this yearly movement, and was struck
with its beauty and benevolence, but had no idea
of its extent. This is the first time I have met
with you—I hope it will not be the last, I think

[Column 2]

there is not in the world such a beautiful and lov-
ing custom. I know not to whom we are first in-
debted for its beginning, but I understand it is to
a gentleman here present. I believe I can say for
him, that if he has never done another good act
in his life, this act should entitle him to a place in
heaven. All titles of honor here to-day are titles
of age only. The commandment is, "Honor thy
father and thy mother." To-day you are manifest-
ing love, honor and obedience for the old. What
have these gone through the last forty years? All
remember that forty years ago this spot was a
desert. Through the labors of such as these, we
have to-day our beautiful and comfortable sur-
roundings. The young who are here to-day are
also beautiful because of the truth, 'It is more
blessed to give than to receive.' I rejoice to see
you all so happy and contented. I hope you will
continue to be blessed and prosperous, and that
as long as the sun shines and the breezes blow,
this happy and appropriate custom may con-
tinue."
	Three cheers for the Governor was heartily re-
sponded to. Bro. Dunbar sang one of the favor-
ite songs, "My Old Wife and I," and the Lehi
choir, also Bros. Goddard and Willis, furnished
vocal music.
	Father Bergen, 96 years old, spoke a few words.
Mrs. Julia Silverwood and the Old Folks' Choir
sang, "Dear Heart We're Growing Old."
	Prest. A. O. Smoot, of Utah Stake, himself a
veteran, as well as a pioneer and colonizer in the
Territory, addressed the assemblage. Alluded in
his remarks to the presence of the Executive, and
said, "It is good for governors and rulers to be
acquainted with their people, and see them in their
homes and home-lives."
	Bro. Savage, with some witty and suggestive
sayings, presented a gold medal, given by Swaner
& Bro., of Salt Lake City, to Bro. Samuel Mul-
liner, who tanned the first leather in the valley
from which has descended the old-time phrase
used so commonly in the past, and applied to so
many things, and even to the young ladies—"Valley
Tan." "Auld Lang Syne" was sung by the choir,
and then Bro. Goddard spoke to the people, tell-
ing them it was the 13th anniversary, and that
there were 600 people on the grounds over 70
years of age. Three cheers for Bro. Savage were
given, and he responded, saying: "We have a gold
medal here for the man who turned the first sod in
Utah—M. C. Carter. He is now in the Peniten-
tiary, but we will send him the medal. You can
see the plow in the museum." Bro. Carter, let us
explain, is serving a term of imprisonment for
conscience' sake. Geo. Openshaw, over 70, gave
a recitation in Lancashire dialect.
	Bro. H. W. Naisbitt spoke a short time, and
alluded to what faith had accomplished in connec-
tion with works in turning "these once deserts
into fruitful fields." Bro. Goddard called for the
owner of the grounds, and was told he was
present; his name is Robert Gilchrist. He blessed
him and said "the place should be sacred from
now on." Old Folks' Choir sang, "Leaf by Leaf
the Roses Fall." One hundred prizes were then
distributed according to the best judgment of the
committee. Prizes were then awarded to each of
the four Utah pioneers who were present, viz.:
Millen Atwood, E. D. Barnham, Jacob Weiler
and Royal Barney. A variety of gifts were dis-
tributed to old people in the congregation. There
were a number of the members of the Mormon
Battalion present.
	It is estimsted that there were 3,000 people on
the grounds. The affair was a most enjoyable one
throughout, and will be long remembered by the
good people of Lehi, as well as the old folks who
participated in the day's enjoyment.
	Thanks to the Old Folks' Committee, and to all
who contribute from time to time to give the aged
honor, reverence and comfort, and once a year to
accord them a season of recreation and the oppor-

[Column 3]

tunity of seeing each other and greeting brothers,
sisters and friends.


ANNIVERSARY MEETING.

	On Thursday, July 19th, there will be an Anni-
versary Meeting in Ogden, at the Tabernacle, to
commemorate the last visit of Prest. Brigham
Young to that city, and also to celebrate the first
appointment of a President to preside over the
sisters' organizations in a Stake capacity. Prest.
Young, at the meeting in the Ogden Tabernacle,
July 19, 1877, appointed Mrs. Jane S. Richards
President over the Relief Society and Young
Ladies' Associations in all Weber Stake, and said
quarterly reports were to be given of the condi-
tion of each Society, and gave much valuable in-
struction at that time. This was the example
Sister E. R. Snow Smith followed out in organiz-
ing the sisters' Associations in the several Stakes
of Zion, and which has been made so uniform
since throughout the Church. Prest. Brigham
Young, Elder John Taylor, Elder Franklin D.
Richards, and other brethren gave excellent in-
struction on that great occasion.
	Prest. Young in his remarks said, concerning
the mothers: "Mothers are the moving instru-
ments in the hands of Providence to guide the
destinies of nations," and he exhorted mothers to
teach their children not to make war, but to teach
them peace. He asked the question, "Who gives
the key to the nations of the earth? It is the
mothers, and not the fathers!" Prest. Young on
that occasion expressed himself pleased with the
way in which the sisters had responded to his
counsel in regard to the storing of grain.
	His instructions were most fatherly, and it
seemed as though every one present felt the influ-
ence thereof. It was the last time he spoke to the
Relief Society and Retrenchment Associations,
and it seems most proper to commemorate the
event.
	It was the intention of Mrs. Richards, last sum-
mer, whom he then appointed, to have held an
anniversary at the end of the ten years, but the
severe illness of Prest. John Taylor last year,
caused her to postpone it till this year. It is now
eleven years since the time, and it is expected
that it will be a general rejoicing. There have
been elaborate preparations made for a dinner
party by the sisters in Weber County, and 
as they have been so very successful in times past
in matters of this kind, there is no doubt that all
things will be done in order, and the utmost har-
mony. The dinner will be served in the Third
Ward Meeting House, from 12 to 2. Services
commence at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
	There are a large number of people from Salt
Lake City going to attend the meetings. Several
of the Apostles are expected to be present.


DEAF MUTE INSTITUTE.

	There may be among the readers of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT some mothers who have,
unfortunately, deaf mute children growing up
without any knowledge, and who may never have
heard of the new Territorial Institution for the
education of deaf mutes, established by the
Legislature; it will not, therefore, be amiss to say
something of the purposes and aims of this institu-
tion.
	It consists of two departments, a school and a
home. At the school, the pupils are taught to
read and write at first, and then, after they are
sufficiently advanced, they are taught such useful
branches of knowledge as are commonly taught
to children in the district schools, composition,
arithmetic, grammar, geography, history, etc. A
course of instruction in speech and lib-reading
will also be given by an experienced teacher in all
cases where the pupils show an aptitude for it.


In the home, the pupils are cared for as well as
they would be by their own mothers. Such a 
home is necessary on eccount of the distance
from which the pupils come, and where they must
have a common shelter. The girls will be taught
to make themselves useful in the house, so that
they may be able to help their mothers at home.
They learn hand and machine sewing, plain cook-
ing, baking, making of cakes and pies, ironing
and other housekeeping duties, all taking turns
every week. Some of the girls thus taught have
become good cooks, to the delight of fathers and
brothers at home. The Institute employs a regu-
lar cook to do all the work, and instruction in
household duties is given by the Matron out of
school hours, so that neither inteferes with the
other. The young lady teacher, who teaches
articulation and lip-reading, will reside at the
Institute, and have general supervision of the
girls out of school hours.
	Board and Tuition will be charged at the rate of
$5 per week, to those who are able to pay, and to
others who reside outside of the Territory, but in
case of inability to pay that amount, the applicants
will be admitted free of charge, as the Legislature
has provided liberally for their free education.
This applies only to residents of the Territory,
and none such need be debarred from coming to
school.
	The requisites for admission are, that the appli-
cants should possess a sound mind in a sound
body. The age of admission begins at six years,
but is not limited upward at present. A three
years' course of instruction is provided for those
who cannot spend more than that number of years
at school. Even one year of training has done
wonders, and much good can be done under such
influences as surround the Institute.
	Books and clothing only must be paid for by the
pupils. Board, lodging and tuition are free. Two
plain, but strong changes of clothing are all that
is necessary.
	The next term begins on the 3rd of Sept., 1888,
and continues—with a two weeks' vacation between
Christmas and New Year—until the middle of
June, after which the pupils go home for a three
months' vacation.
	It is to be hoped that no deaf mute of suitable
age, out of the two hundred or more now in the
Territory, will neglect the opportunity of an edu-
cation thus afforded them. The Institute is at
present located at Captain Hooper's beautiful
mansion in Salt Lake City.
	All communications should be addressed to Dr.
J. R. Park, President of University of Deseret.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THB Y. L. M. I. A. of the 8th Ward in this city,
held an interesting meeting in the Ward Assembly
Rooms, Tuesday evening, July 10 Mrs. Mary P.
Young, Prest of the Association, and Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze presiding. The hall was handsomely
fitted up for the occasion, and roses and bouquets
of lovely flowers were scattered here and there,
giving a soft, sweet tone to the effect of the decor-
ating, at the same time, suggesting the refinement
and culture of those who had the management of
the affair. There were quite a number of visitors
present by invitation. The singing and music
was excellent, the selection of the songs also
testifying of the good taste of the young ladies.
The exercises of the meeting were of a high order
and gave good promise of the intellectual and
spiritual improvement and growth of the Associa-
tion. During the evening one of the young sis-
ters, a visitor arose and sung inspirationally "A song
of Zion," such as we have never heard before
since the death of our dear mother Whitney. Her
voice was clear and musical and the highest notes
were full of melody. It was in answer to prayer,
and was the out-pouring of the Holy Spirit in such
rich draughts that all present felt the effect there-

[Column 2]

of. After the meeting was over ice cream and
cake were served, and all felt they had enjoyed a
season of refreshing from on high. The culti-
vation of spiritual gifts lifts the soul into the higher
atmosphere of thought and feeling and helps one
to attain to the perfection which is the aim of
every true Latter-day Saint.
	A NEW stimulus is likely to be given to sericul-
ture in the Territory of Utah, and as there are
many throughout the valleys of this fruitful region
who have made great efforts in this direction, we
feel sure they will be glad to learn that there is
likely to be renewed exertions made by those who
will aim to make success of the undertaking.
Senator Chandler has introduced a bill into the
Congress of the United States, asking for an ap-
propriation for $150,000 to establish silk stations
for the encouragement of this important branch
of industry in the United States. Father Graves,
of Provo, who has for years been laboring untir-
ingly in this enterprise, has written to the Agricul-
tural department in Washington, and laid before
them some details of what has been done, and
what can be done in Utah in this direction. Now
he is anxious to obtain further statistical informa-
tion, that he may more perfectly present the sub-
ject to Congress, and obtain such help as is needed
for Utah. Bro Graves wishes to obtain positive
information of the number of mulberry trees in
Utah, and this can be done more readily by the
sisters reporting to the Relief Society in each
ward and Stake. He also wishes to ascertain the
number of persons that have been in the past, or
who are now engaged practically in seri-culture in
any of its various departments. All this can be
done systematically through the Relief Society,
because of its perfect organization throughout
the Territory. Bro. Graves assures us that the
Governor of the Territory is backing him in this
project, and also the Chamber of Commerce, but
as the Relief Society has been active in the work
of seri-culture, it will be a most interesting fact to
know what has really been done by the sisters
in this home industry. It is to be hoped that the
Relief Society everywhere in Utah will respond
as soon as convenient to this request. Presidents
of all the branches of the Relief Society in Utah
are requested to lay this matter before the sisters
in their first meeting after receiving this notice,
and urge upon the secretaries the importance of
collecting these statistics. Please make your re-
port from each branch to the president or secre-
tary of the Relief Society of the Stake in which
you are located, and after these reports are ex-
amined by the Stake President and her board, she
is hereby notified to forward them to this office,
addressed to Mrs. E. B. Wells, Salt Lake City,
(Corresponding Secretary of the Central Board of
the Relief Society). The Cor. Sec. will then pre-
pare a suitable and full report for Bro. Graves
to send to the Agricultural Department at Wash-
ington, and also as a record of woman's work in
Utah, which should be published in the EXPON-
ENT, in connection with other matters.


PIONEER DAY.

     If there is one day in the year that appeals to
the patriotism of the citizens of Utah more
strongly than another, next to Independence Day,
it is the day when the first company of Pioneers
arrived in this valley, on the 24th of July, 1847.
Though in poverty, yet with an indomitable will
and strong faith in God, they faced crude nature
in all its forbidding aspects, and laid the founda-
tion of one of the grandest States on the Ameri-
can continent, which Utah, the “Queen of the
West,” is sure to become in the near future.
     It is therefore but a fitting tribute to the memory
of the Pioneers who have died and also a tribute
of honor to those now living, that the following


programme of exercises be carried out next Tues-
day in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City.
	In addition to the Pioneers' entrance to Utah,
it is also desirable to perpetuate the memory of
the Pioneer Sunday Schools in 1849,
in the Fourteenth Ward of this city, by
Richard Ballantyne, and its wonderful growth to
the present time:—Ex.
PROGRAMME.
	Music, Sixth Ward Silver Band; Song, "Our
Mountain Home so Dear," Sunday School Chil-
dren; Prayer by Assistant General Superintend-
ent George Goddard; Song, Tabernacle Choir;
Opening Address,by President Wilford Woodruff;
Organ Solo,Professor Jos.J.Daynes;Five minutes'
Address, Brother Richard Ballantyne; Song, on
page 24, "Beautiful Zion," Sunday School Children;
Sentiments by General Superintendent George Q.
Cannon; The Soldiers' Chorus, McIntyre's Glee
Class; Speech by one of the Pioneers; "Hail
Columbus," Brass Band; Remarks about the
Plow that turned the first sod in Utah; Solo, Mrs.
Agnes Thomas; Xylophone Solo, "Andante and
Polka," A. Beesley; Song, Tabernacle Choir;
Sentiments; Song, "Utah the Queen of the West,"
Sunday School Children; Benediction.
	George Goddard, C. F. Wilcox, John C. Cutler,
Thos. C. Griggs, W. Willes, Thos. E. Taylor and
J. W. Summerhays, general committee.
	Thos. McIntyre, E. Beesley and Jos. J. Daynes
committee on Music.
	Lorenzo D. Young, C. R. Savage and Francis
Cope, committee on Pioneers.
	James Dwyer, W. C. Morris, Priscilla Jennings,
Matilda Barratt and Priscilla Staines, committee
on decorations.
	An invitation is extended to those outside of
Salt Lake City to be present on the occasion.
	The exercises at the Tabernacle will commence
promptly at 10 a.m. The south and west gates of
the Temple Block will be open at 8 o'clock.


CORRESPONDENCE.

		LEES CREEK, Alberta, JUNE 19, 1888.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:—As we have a temporary Relief
Society organized, and our honored Sister and
President, Zina D. H. Young, having arrived here
and met with us, we thought, perhaps, the minutes
of our first meeting after her arrival would not be
amiss.
	May 24th the sisters of Lees Creek met at the
residence of President C. O. Card, Prest. Mary
L. Woolf presiding. Singing, “O, my father,’
etc. Prayer by G. L. Farrell. Singing, “Do what
is right.” Minutes of previous meeting read and
accepted.
	Prest. Mary Woolf made a few opening remarks;
rejoiced that our dear sister had the privilege of
coming to this land, and could meet with us; anti-
cipated a good time. Prayed that the Spirit of
the Lord would be with us, that all might be dicta-
ted by the same
	Coun. Annie Layne felt weak in speaking, but
rejoiced in being here among so good a people;
felt very thankful that our honored sister could be
with us; felt willing to do her part in rolling on
this work.
	Sister Sarah Daines was pleased to meet with
our brethren and sisters on this occasion; said we
were blest in having Sister Young with us; desired
to do good and assist in the work before us.
	Sister Z. Y. Card rejoiced to meet with us, and
her dear mother; could not express the joy she
felt in having her mother with her at this time.
Compared our meeting with others she had at-
tended, all being present that had their names en-
rolled. Spoke of the relief given to the poor,
although administered by the sisters it came from
the head of the family. Said our sisters at home
were deprived of the care and support of their


husbands, and we should all remember them in
our prayers. "He is the Comforter; we should
all put our trust in Him." Said our example and
and influence here was for good, of which those
that were not of us would testify. Desired the
Spirit of the Lord to be with us at all times.
	Sister Zine D. H. Young said this meeting
brought to mind many bygone days. Felt that
the Spirit of the Lord was with us, and with His
Saints wherever they were located. Referred to
remarks made by the Prophet Joseph to the sisters
—"You have no conception of the greatness of
the work you are laying the foundation of." Said
every sister was paid for coming to meeting;
mothers were strengthened to perform their labors
and better prepared to instruct their children.
"Some of our sisters are not taking the right
course." Felt we enjoyed a good spirit in our
labors: nothing gave us more joy than to see our
young people taking hold of the principles of the
Gospel. Assured us that this colony was remem-
bered and prayed for in the Temple. Prayed that
the choicest blessings of the Lord might ever at-
tend us.
	Bro. Cheeney said he had had many reflections
while listening; was pleased to see all attending
meeting; if any needed to be encouraged or ex-
cused it was the mothers; was pleased to see the
willingness of the sisters to perform all duties.
"When people apostatize they first neglect small
duties; many have stumbled; it is necessary that
we are shield edfrom this by performing our duties
in this Church. May God bless our labors and
increase the Spirit of the Lord upon us."
	Bro. R. Smith had embraced the Gospel and knew
of its truth, and hoped to live faithful to the end.
"There is a great work before us; we need to
watch and pray. Two of our sisters are in prison,
and the way they are treated is not calculated to
make me feel good." Many of our brethren felt 
depressed, and longed for the time when our
brethren could speak to them; they could not
comfort each other concerning their religion, nor
speak of the principles of the Gospel, which were
so dear to them; the singing of the sisters had
been much appreciated by them. Prophecy had
and would be fulfilled. Prayed God to help us to
be faithful and worthy of the many blessings we
receive.
	Bro. Daines felt grateful for this privilege; said
that a good portion of the Spirit of the Lord was
with us. Could testify of the benefit of the Relief
Society; had attended many good meetings here.
	"We all have our trials, but they will be for our
good; we cannot be perfected without them." All
felt to appreciate the blessing of having Sister 
Young with us; hoped that we would continue to
be united, that we might be prepared for all that
may come.
	Bro. Farrell said he was glad to be with us and
enjoy the good spirit in our midst; what had been
said was true. Spoke of the mustard seed being
scattered; we had come here because the Lord
wanted us here; we had been blest while here;
those of the world admired our industry and im-
provements; it would help to preach the Gospel; 
we should be united in all things. Said, "If we
do right the Lord will bless us, and we will con-
tinue to enjoy a peaceful spirit. The world can-
not do anything against, but for the kingdom of
God; if we are diligent the Lord will enable us to
do a good work in this land." Asked the Lord to
bless Sister Young and all the sisters.
	Prest. Card said it always afforded him pleasure
to meet with us; had listened with pleasure to the
remarks made. "Unless we continue to labor we
may not always enjoy the blessings of God. We
must seek for wisdom." Was pleased that we
could have Sister Young with us; she was now
President of all the Relief Society. "We can-
not court too much the Spirit of the Lord; that we
may enjoy peace and happiness we must be wise in
all things. The Lamanites are not all true; our

[Column 2]

neighbors judge us by our outward appearance."
Asked the peace and blessings of the Lord upon
us.
	Sister Mary Woolf had been edified; knew the
Prophet Jospeh had been inspired to organize the
Relief Society; was always strengthened for her
duties in attending meeting. "We need this
strength to rear our children in the ways of the
 Lord; had been trained to do right, and had tried
to do so.
	Singing, "Who are these arrayed in white?"
etc.
	An invitation was then extended to all the
brethren to attend a picnic prepared in honor of
our President, Sister Young, at 6 o'clock, at
which time twenty-eight of our brethren and sis-
ters sat down to tables well filled with some of the
good things of Canada. As it was also the
queen's birthday, and we forming part of her do-
main, we thought we could not celebrate it in a
better way.
		SARAH H. DAINES. Ass't Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. RERORTS.

	WASATCH STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of Wasatch Stake convened in the
Stake House, Heber City, May 14th, 1888.
On the stand were Prest. Emma Brown and
Counselors, Sister E. S. Taylor and Miss Mary
E. Cook, of Salt Lake City, and several of
the brethren.
	Services began by the choir singing, "God
moves in a mysterious way." Prayer was
offered by Bro. J. R. Murdock, Singing.
Minutes of former conference, also statistical
and financial reports read and adopted.
	Prest. Brown, in her opening remarks,
wished the various presidents to give short
and concise reports, as she wished the visiting
sisters to occupy the greater portion of the
time.
	All the branches, eight in number, were
represented as in a prosperous condition. All
had contributed for the furnishing of the
Stake House the portion assigned them; had
tried to look after and minister to the com-
forts of the poor under their charge, and dis-
charge faithfully all the duties and require-
ments placed upon them.
	After the reports, Sisters Taylor and Cook
occupied most of the remaining time. Ex-
pressed pleasure at meeting with us in this
capacity, and also at the good reports. Spoke
strongly on the rearing of our children; also
in keeping them under our own influence. They
touched upon most of the requirements of the
mothers in Israel. Their remarks were listened
to most attentively by a large audience, and
all felt amply repaid for attending confer-
ence, by the wise and motherly counsel of the
sisters.
		JOSEPHINE C. JONES, Stake Sec.


[Column 1]

﻿PRIMARY REPORTS.

	ST. DAVID PRIMARY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing the interest you take in the youth
of Zion, we thought you would like to know
how we get along in this far off place.
	The health of the people is good, grain and
gardens look well. We are greatly blessed,
notwithstanding our isolated condition.
	Our Primary is flourishing; we hold our
meetings regularly every week. We had an
enjoyable time on the 2nd of May; held a con-
cert; over forty-five children took part. It was
opened by singing, "Nice Young Mormons,"
which was well rendered by the children, after

[Column 2]

which dialogues, music; recitations and songs
were well rendered by the children. Closing
song, "Love at Home."
	It was a lovely sight to see their happy faces
and listen to their sweet voices. All went
home feeling they had been well paid in com-
ing. By request, the concert was repeated on
the 10th inst.
		M. GOODMAN, Prest.
		ANNIE MCRAE, Sec.

P. A. ANNIVERSARY.
	The Primary Association of Big Cottonwood
held their annual meeting on the 14th of June,
1888. A very enjoyable time was had. We
had present with us from the city, Sisters E. C.
Clawson, L. A. Wells and M. H. James, each of
whom expressed themselves highly pleased with
the progress of the children. The report for
the year showed the society to be in a flourish-
ing condition.
	The programme consisted of songs, solos,
essays, select readings and recitations. We
have a paper called the "Primary Trustworthy,"
to which the children write. There was held,
at the same time, a Primary Fair. The work
in it was very creditable, consisting of aprons,
quilts, lace collars, embroidery, bread, butter,
yeast, cake, and from the boys were tables,
ladders, hay rakes, cupboards, cabbage plants,
turnips, peas, bread and pies; and numerous
other articles, all of which showed great care
and thought.
	There were two meetings held, one at 10 a.m.
and one at 2 p.m. Each of them were largely
attended by both parents and children.
		ELLEN SUTHERLAND, Prest.

	PRIMARY ANNUAL.
DEAR EDITOR:
	The Primary Associations of Lewiston and
Coveville held their annual conference at
Lewiston, June 23rd. Meetings commenced at
10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Sisters Pike and Scrothers,
of Logan, were present. The forenoon exercises
consisted of recitations and songs by the
children. The different Associations were re-
ported improving.
	Sister Pike and Scrothers gave some very
good instruction in regard to the training and
education of the young; said that they should
be taught the first principles of the Gospel, so
that as they grew in years they would increase
in knowledge and understanding, and exhorted
all to be faithful in keeping the commandments
of the Lord.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m.: After the usual
opening exercises, there were speeches, dialogues,
songs and recitations by the children.
	Some of the brethren spoke, and gave some
very good instructions. A good spirit prevailed,
and all felt well in the Gospel, with a desire to
help roll forth this great and glorious work.
	Conference was then adjourned for one
year. I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		E. LEWIS.

PRIMARY REUNION.
	A reunion of the P. A. of Grouse Creek
was held at that place May 20th, at 3 p.m.,
Coun. Elizabeth Atkinson presiding. After
the opening exercises, the programme was ren-
dered as follows. An Essay, by James Batter-
age, entitled, "Tattling;" Song, Mary E. Barlow
and Camma Atkinson, entitled, "Strike, Strike
for Victory;" Recitation, Frances Toyne, "The
Complaints of the Poor;" Song, Henry and
Willard Hales, entitled, "Remember Poor
Mother at Home;" Essay, Emily Paskett, "The
Busy Bee;" Song, Alice and Fanny Kimber,
"Dry Your Tears, Dear Mother;" Recitation,
Etta McLaus, entitled, "Ah, No;" Song, James


Simpson and company, "Sabbath School;"
Dialogue, Lottie Paskett and Annie Kimber
"A Foolish Habit;" Song, Mary E. Toyne and
company, "Write me a Letter From Home;"
Song, Mary E. Barlow and Camma Atkinson,
"Touch not the Wine Cup, my Boy;" Recita-
tion, Hattie Fletcher, "Guilty, or not Guilty."
There were several others very good, but too
lengthy to put all the names down.
	Bro. P. Paskett, Coun. E. Atkinson, Alice
Kimber and Sister Betterage each made en-
couraging and interesting remarks; also Sister
P. Hales.
	Coun. E. Atkinson spoke of the coming of
June 1st, to be celebrated as May day, as it
was out late President Brigham Young's birth-
day, and said we had better celebrate that day;
selected three as a committee to take charge
and make out a programme. Closed by bless-
ing the children.
	Meeting closed by singing, "Dearest Child-
ren." Benediction by Coun. Alice Kimber.
	Members thirty-three, visitors twenty-one."
				JAMES BETTERAGE, Sec.
				------
		PRIMARY CELEBRATION.
	A grand celebration was held in Rexburg,
on June 1st, celebrating the late President
Brigham Young's birthday. The programme
was rendered as follows: Singing by the Rex-
burg Primary Choir. Prayer by the Chaplain,
Earnest Ricks. Singing by the choir. Open-
ing remarks by Bishop T. E. Ricks, in behalf
of the children. The May-queen, Marintha
Norris, was then crowned by the Archbishop,
Charles Fogg, and an appropriate song was
sung by the maids of honor.
	Coun. Wm. F. Rigby spoke with power, and
gave some excellent advice, that will be
cherished in after years.
	A recitation by Jannie Holman, and a song
by the Misses Elliots.
	Bro. Fogg then addressed the congregation.
In his remarks he spoke of the good our late
President Brigham Young had done, and the
love the Latter-day Sains had for him. A
song was then sung by the maids of honor,
and a declamation given by Mrs. S. A. Barnes.
	Prest. T. E. Ricks then addressed the
audience and spoke well. He was filled with
the Spirit of the Lord, and his remarks sank
deep into the hearts of all present, to bud and
bloom in future years. A song was then sung
by Mrs. Emily C. Anderson, and a declamation
given by Miss Fannie E. Paul.
	Bro. James Unsworth spoke of the goodness
of the Lord, and felt pleased to take part in
the celebration of Prest. Brigham Young's
birthday, and gave many good and interesting
instructions. A song was then sung by the
maids of honor.
	Coun. Emma Paul thought we had indeed
had a treat in having our beloved Prest., T. E.
Ricks, and his Coun., W. F. Rigby, in our
midst; felt that a good influence had prevailed.
A song was then sung by Rosetta Anderson.
	Prest. S. A. Barnes then arose and tendered
a vote of thanks to the committee that had got
out the material and put up the swings for the 
entertainment.
	Meeting closed by singing. Benediction by
the Chaplain.
	The children were then formed in procession
and marched down Main St. The children
sang several songs while marching. Prest.
Ricks gave them what candy was in his store,
Bro. Wm. Paul gave several hundred marbles,
which were divided among the boys, and Bros.
Durrans and Winters gave each child a sack
of candy and nuts as they were passing their
store. The children then marched back to the
meeting house, where the picnic was prepared.
The afternoon sports consisted of games,
swinging, and a dance for the children. The
day's entertainment closed with a grand ball
in the Rexburg hall.
		S. A. BARNES, Prest,
		EMMA PAUL,
		DIANA T. ECKERSELL, Couns.

		PRIMARY CONFERENCE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Minutes of a conference of the Primary As-
sociations of Paradise, Hyrum and Millville
wards. The Conference met at Paradise, June
20, 1888, commencing at 11 a.m., Coun. Pike
presiding over the meeting. Opened with
singing. Prayer by Bishop J. D. Hirst.
Singing. Minutes of the last conference, which
met at Millville, were read by Sister Crowther
and adopted. A recitation, "Keep out of
Debt," was rendered by Emma Norris, of the
Paradise Ward.
	Prest. Hannah Olsen, of Paradise, reported
the Primary of that ward. "There are enrolled
about 100, average attendance 50."
	"The Old Wooden Rocker, That Stands by
the Wall," was sung by Edith Gamble, of the
Millville Ward.
	The Millville Ward was then represented by
Prest. Sarah Gamble; the enrollment was 85,
average attendance 30.
	Prest. Hansen, of Hyrum, reported the 3rd
district of that ward. The speaker thought
the parents should take a little more interest
in the matter.
	Mary Obray, First Counselor to Sister Olsen,
of Paradise, was honorably released, and a vote
of thanks tendered for her labors.
	The Paradise Primary Association was then
reorganized, with the following officers: Hannah
Olsen, President; Louisa Smith and Isabell
Obray, Counselors: Josephine James, Secretary;
Caroline Larsen, Ass't Secretary; Ida Obray,
Treasurer.
	Bishop James D. Hirst made a few remarks;
showed the advantages and the necessity of
kindness; encouraged all to pursue a course
that would be approbated of God.
	A recitation, "Little Jim," was then given
by Danford Bickmore, of Paradise; a card
exercise on "Good Behavior," was rendered by
a class of little ones of the 1st district, Hyrum,
conducted by Martha Allen.
	Prest. Martha Allen reported the Association
over which she presided. "There are between
80 and 90 enrolled, and an attendance of about
20. The children were  encouraged to bear
their testimonies, and some had without being
asked.
	Sister Crowther, of Logan, addressed the
meeting; said she was very much pleased with
the boys for coming to the front, and made
excellent remarks.
	A duet, "All together," by Priscilla and
Laura Humphreys of Paradise; a dialogue, "A
Place for Everything," by Carrie Obray and
Julia Bradshaw; a song, by Annie Johnson
and Edgar Wing.
	Father David James addressed the meeting.
He said he was nearly eighty-five years of age,
and this was the first Primary Conference he
had attended; he said many good things. A
recitation, "Little Lallie's Wish," by Hallie
Yates.
	Elder Robert Pearce of Paradise, spoke a
short time on the principle of obedience.
	Sister Pike stated that Sister Molen, Prest.
of the Primary Associations, was absent on ac-
count of severe sickness. She had sent a letter
in which she sent her love to all the little
boys and girls, and prayed for the choicest
blessings of the Lord to rest upon those who
attended this conference. Sister Pike wished
the children to say Amen when a speaker con-
cluded his or her remarks. Admonished the
children to be kind to their parents and the
aged.
	Lavina Anderson, of Hyrum, gave a recita-
tion, "Keeping His Word." The Association
sang, "Around the Throne." Closing Prayer
by Elder Jacob Larsen.
	A good orderly spirit prevailed throughout
the meeting; the selections were well rendered
by the little ones, and all seemed to depart
with a feeling of kindness.
				Yours,
			JOSEPHINE JAMES, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A BISHOP'S LAST SERMON.

	"The following most remarkable sermon of
this century is reported to have been preached
on Christmas last by the Bishop of London,
England."
	Text—"Go to now, ye rich men, weep and
howl for your miseries that shall come upon
you. Behold, the hire of the laborers, who
have reaped your fields, which is of you kept
back by fraud, crieth; and the cries of them
which have reaped down are entered into the
ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. Ye have lived
in pleasure and have been wanton; ye have
nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter.
Ye have condemned and killed the just and he
doth not resist you."—James v; 1, 4, 5, 6.
	Fellow citizens—The text which I have just
read you, and from which I shall preach the last
sermon as bishop that I shall ever deliver from
this pulpit, is one which is probably as unfamiliar
to you comfortable, well-to-do people, as it is
familiar to all those who, since it was originally
penned, have toiled and suffered for humanity.
Although it is read sometimes in the ordinary
course of our church service, yet judging by
your conduct, your ears have been deaf to its
terrible denunciations. From the days when I
was an humble curate until now, I have had a
large and varied experience of cathedrals,
churches, preachers and sermons, but I have
never yet heard a discourse based on these
words, and I cannot learn from any of my
brother bishops or priests, that they have ever
used them, or heard them so used.
	I can see by your uneasy demeanor that you
are asking yourselves why, on this Christmas
day, when, in accordance with custom, I should
be preaching smooth things to you, I should be
mad enough to offend your delicate susceptibili-
ties by quoting the sayings of one of the common
people--words written eighteen centuries ago,
which might have done very well then, but
which cannot possibly be applied to you and
to your class to-day; you who come here, clad
in purple and fine linen, who, some of you,
live in king's houses, who fare delicately every
day, and who consider that you have fulfilled
every moral obligation when you have dropped
a coin into the collection box, before you step
into your carriage to be driven into your lux-
urious homes. It is because that I believe
that not only James, but Jesus Christ Himself,
if He could stand in my place to-day, would
hurl these words at you with a force and a
passion of which we, in this nineteenth century,
have but little conception. Not as a bishop,
but as a man, I repeat them to you, hardly
hoping that they may touch your hearts, but
more as a justification for my new and strange
position.
	For years I have been one of you. My
home has not been where Christ's home was,
with the masses, but with the classes. I have
an abundance of this world's goods. I have
lived with the fashionable, with the wealthy,
and I have been a dignitary of a church which
is the church of the rich, and not the church
of the poor. Without a protest I have mixed
in society with men and women, whom Christ
would have denounced as bitterly as He de-
nounced the Scribes and Pharisees. In the
House of Lords I have silently sat side by side
with whoremongers and adulterers, and as
silently have I welcomed as my personal


[Column 1]

friends high born women—some of whom I
see before me to-day—with whom no decent
workingman would allow his wife or daughters
to associate.
	I have seen among you, spreading  like a
canker the lust of the flesh, and the pride of
life, and instead of reproving you, as Christ
would have done, I have taken refuge in gener-
alities, and have not dared to denounce your 
individual sins. And all this time there has
been going on around me, in this huge city,
and throughout the land, the surging, toiling
life of humanity, the sorrow, the suffering, the
poverty, the disease, the sin and shame, which
I realize but dimly, as something altogether
apart from my own existence, but for which, I
at last see clearly, you and I have been, up to
the present time, mostly to blame. We and
our class have kept back by fraud the hire of
the laborers who have reaped our field; we
have lived in pleasure on the earth and
been wanton; we have nourished our own
hearts while we have starved the bodies of
those to whom we owe the very bread we eat,
and the clothes we wear, and now we are con-
demning and killing at our very gates the peo-
ple whose inarticulate cry is entering into the
ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, whose faithful
servants we pretend to be.
	My fellow-citizens—I know not how it may
be with you, but for me this careless, selfish
life is ended. Little by little I have awakened
to the fact that all my days I have entirely
neglected my real duty to my fellow-men, and
at last I have come to know that my proper
place is not here, as the well paid bishop of a
church which, in its present condition, is utter-
ly opposed to everything which Christ taught,
but among the poor, to whom He declared
that the Gospel should be preached among the
laborers whose hire we have kept back by
fraud.
	Too long have I neglected the miserable
social facts of our so-called Christian civiliza-
tion. Too long have I spoken to you smooth
things, and cried peace when there was no
peace. I have known by repute that there was
misery among our people, starvation in our
midst, and prostitution upon our streets. But
hitherto I have taken these as something for
which you and I were not responsible, but
which were really due to the inherent wicked-
ness of nature
	But now I have learned that our pleasures
and our wantonness have been built upon this
hideous foundation, and have learned this—
as you may also learn if you will—I have re-
solved that from this Christmas day my new
life shall begin. To-day I lay down my robes,
I give up my bishopric, my palace and my
income; I give up my pleasures of society and
of the world; I give up my seat in the House
of Lords, and at last I take my place as a man
among men.
	It is, I know, a bold step I have taken, but I
have counted the cost. Resolved no longer to
live on the labors of others, I shall probably
have to join the great army of the unemployed.
To-morrow I shall attempt to preach my first
sermon to them in Trafalgar Square, from the
same text that I have used here to-day, and it
is likely that I shall pass to-morrow night in a
police cell.  But there I shall be no worse off
than Jesus Christ would be,if He attempted to
enter this abbey (Westminster) now, for He
would be arrested and locked up as a vagabond
without visible means of subsistance. To you
and to your class He would simply be a laborer
whose subsistance you have kept by fraud. To
the abolition of that fraud, and of the misery
and degradation which result from it, I shall
henceforth devote my life. It will be no easy
task; not near so easy as being Bishop of Lon-
don, but the reward of a good conscience and
of noble work well done, is better far than a 

[Column 2]

palace and ten thousand pounds ($48,400) a
year.
	In this place I shall probably never speak
again. But when Freedom shall have opened
out her arms and gathered all men into her
wide embrace, when Justice and Truth shall
have taken the place of oppression and fraud,
some man of the people shall stand in this tem-
ple of the dead, and inspired by the best tradi-
tion of the past, the noble aspirations of the
present and ideal hopes of the future, shall
send ringing through these lofty aisles that
loving Christmas message, which till then can
never have its full significance—"Peace on
earth and goodwill to men."
		HERBERT BURROWE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

     Mrs. Matthew Arnold has been refused the
pension enjoyed by her late husband.
     Dr. Clara Marshall is appointed dean of
Pennysylvania Women's College, in plaee of
Dr. Rachel Bodley.
     Queen Victoria has given $350,000, the bal-
ance of the women's jubilee offering, to St.
Catherine's Training Hospital for nurses for
London poor.
     We hear that the Emperor of Japan has
created a new order, the Order of the Crown.
It is exclusively for women, and it is to be the
reward of distinguished merit.
     The will of Rachel L. Bodley, late dean of
the Woman's Medical College, which was ad-
mitted to Probate Saturday, bequeathed to the
Woman’s Medical College all her scientific
books, and her herbarium of dried plants and
the six cases containing them; to the Presbyte-
rian Home for Widows and Single women the
remainder of her books and the three walnut 
cases in which they are contained.—Ex.
	The National Teachers' Association, which
meets in San Francisco on the 17th of July,
was organized in 1857.  This year it will be
represented by ten thousand teachers from all
the States and Territories, and more than half
of these will be women.  This fact, and the
part women will take in the convention, marks
the gain of the last thirty years.  Now women
are active members and officers of the associa-
tion, and no one questions their right.  Con-
trast this fact with that stated by Miss Anthony,
who years ago asked to speak in a teachers'
meeting, and it took a long time to secure per-
mission, and the other women teachers were
ashamed that any one of their number should
do so unwomanly a thing.—Ex.


GENEROUS DR. BUCKLEY.

	Scene, Heaven's Gate.
	St. Peter, addressing Frances Willard and
other Christian women: "Welcome, dear sisters.
Enter into the joy of your Lord."
	Dr. Buckley, jumping on a soap-box, push-
ing St. Peter away, and slamming the door in
the ladies' faces: "Every woman that gets in
here keeps out a man, to the disadvantage of
heaven.  I stand here to champion the holy
cause of woman!"		H. W.


OBITUARY.
	A sad and terrible accident occurred within a quarter of
a mile of Antonito, in this county (Conejos).  On the 27th
day of June, Sister Maria Gertrude Peterson accompanied
her husband, who was going to the county seat on business,
and upon returning, about a quarter of a mile from
Antonito, Sister Peterson raised her parasol, which
frightened the horse so that he ran away.  Sister Peterson
was determined to jump out of the vehicle in spite of the
entreaties of her husband, who was trying to quiet her as
well as to stop the frightened horse; she fell upon the


ground. Bro. Peterson soon obtained control of the horse,
and returned to find his wife lying on her face, almost
senseless. She was soon conveyed to the town of Antonito,
where two doctors and many friends did all in their power
to save her, but it was unavailing; she passed away from
this life at half-past eight in the evening, to join her two
children, who died of whooping-cough in 1872, sixteen
years before. She was born in Mara, New Mexico, on the
7th of Sept., 1850. She was married to L. Marcos
Peterson, February 17, 1863. In the year 1875 she accom-
panied her husband to Utah, where they embraced the
Gospel; they were baptized by Apostle Erastus Snow. They
returned to their home in Colorado, and gathered with
others of the Lamanite people, who had embraced the
truth through their preaching, to Savoia, New Mexico.
From there they came to the San Luis Valley, where they
have lived ever since. Sister Peterson was of the true
blood of Israel, and devoted to her religion. She was
reserved and lady-like in her appearance; was a woman of
good judgment, and was a bright example to her sex; she
was greatly beloved by all her native people, and also by
all the Latter-day Saints with whom she was acquainted.
She was hospitable and kind; to know her was to love her;
when once her friendship was gained it was lasting and
true. The love and esteem in which she was held by the
community was shown by the hundreds who attended her
funeral, from different parts of the county. The services
were held in the Manassa meeting house, June 29, 1888.
The speakers were Prest. John Morgan and Prest. S. S.
Smith. After the ceremonies were over she was laid to
rest, to await a glorious resurrection with the just. She
leaves a sorrowing husband, mother and brother, and many
friends, who look forward to that happy time, when we
shall all meet again, where we shall be free from dangers,
sickness and pain.
		S. T. BOICE.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
