Vol. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1888.	No. 13.


[For the EXPONENT.]
CHRISTMAS HYMN.

This earth had not in orbit rolled,
Or present form received—
When in grand council holy Gods
A glorious plan conceived.
And all the "Morning Stars" did shout
An anthem, fraught with praise,
Yea, prophesied and sang with joy
Of these the latter days.

The plan conceived, tho' man should sin,
And through transgression fall;
Yea, sin and darkness cover earth
As with a sable pall.
That Jesus Christ on earth should come
With  healing in His wings,
And conquer death, hell and the grave,
And reign as King of kings.

This glorious plan came from the Head—
Father of light and love—
'Twas sanctioned by the heavenly host,
Who dwelt with Him above,
That Christ should come, dwell in the flesh
And be a sacrifice;
That countless millions of the dead—and
Living might rejoice.

"While shepherds watched their flocks by night,
O'erspread on Judean plains,
The angels of the Lord appeared,
Chanting celestial strains;
Such heavenly melodies burst forth,
Seraphic strains arise,
Echoing grand from world to world,
Along the star-lit skies.

Peace be on earth, goodwill to man,
The shining seraphs sang,
Celestial choirs caught up the strain,
While heavenly music rang;
Behold, the Star of Bethlehem !
See where its halo plays;
Your King and Savior of this world
There in a manger lays.

The foxes had their place of rest,
The birds securely slept,
'Mid leafy boughs, when night had come,
While Jesus oftimes wept,
Despised, rejected, sick and faint,
Athirst and lacking bread
An outcast and a wanderer,
Not where to lay His head.

He preached the Gospel, healed the sick,
Gave sight unto the blind,
And fed the hungry multitude,
And sought to bless mankind.
Great drops of blood oozed from His pores,
in agony He wept,
And prayed, "Thy will be done, not mine,"
While His disciples slept.

The Jews, they smote and spat on Him,
And spilled His precious blood;
They nailed Him to the shameful cross, 
Yea, crucified their God.
He died, but soon He rose again
With victory o'er the tomb,
He loosed their hands, the captives freed,
And brake the prison gloom.
	
Ring out, glad bells, your sweetest chimes!
Ring out the glad refrain!
Peace be on earth, good will to man,
Ring out, ring out again!
Peal forth, sweet bells, in midnight hour,
Good will, good will to man!
Hosannah to the "King of kings,"
Amen, amen, amen.
	C. L. W.


[Column 1]
ABOUT CENTRAL AMERICA AND
MEXICO.
	At the Young Men's Conference held in the
Tabernacle at Ogden City Nov. 11, Apostle
Moses Thatcher delivered a very able and elo-
quent address touching upon the ancient inhabi-
tants of this continent, the ruins of their cities
and many other things relating to the same
subject.  The discourse is published in full in
The Standard of Nov. 13, and as we have
perused it with great satisfaction we have de-
cided to republish parts of it for the readers of
the EXPONENT, feeling confident that they will
find it highly interesting and instructive; it
also corroborates the testimony of the Book of
Mormon, which is a matter for the serious
consideration of the youth of Zion. After
introducing his subject in the most graceful
manner Apostle Thatcher said:
	"In the Valley of Mexico are located the ex-
tensive ruins of an ancient city known to
scientific writers and explorers as the City of 
the Gods. Its circumference as recently traced
is shown to have been 27 miles. In the midst
of where this ancient city once stood is found
what is known as the pyramid of the moon.
The larger pyramid covers an area equal to
twelve acres and when perfect was 280 feet
high. The lesser covers an area of about
eight acres and is some sixty-five or eighty
feet less in height. These vast structures were
constructed by human hands and the massive
stones are as true and as perfectly laid to the
line as any building we have any knowledge
of. These large pyramids are surrounded by
myriads of other smaller structures, which
doubtless have reference to the starry firma-
ment. This people undoubtedly had a very
extensive knowledge of astronomy. They 
originally built with earth and bound the
walls together with solid layers of cement
from eight to twelve inches in thickness. The
walls are evenly sloped down on the four sides,
and in their original complete form are cov-
ered with porphyretic rock over which a heavy
coat of cement is plastered, so that the noon-
day sun, as on the pyramids of Egypt, strikes
on the four sides of the building.
	These buildings have not been extensively
explored throughout the interior, but suffi-
ciently so to discover interior rooms, beauti-
fully painted, decorated and frescoed, the
work remaining as perfect and preserved as if
but modern works of art.
	When the Aztecs came from the north they
found this city and these pyramids in ruins.
They found also certain traditions of an ex-
tinct people which caused them to make a re-
cord that the people who built these magnifi-
cant edifices were a white race and not of a
dark skin as were the Aztecs. Excavations
demonstrated this record to be true, for in
opening the graves of this enlightened people 
the discovery was made that they were a light-
haired race. Extending from the pyramid of
the sun to the pyramid of the moon, is still to
be seen a gigantic causeway of cement. It re-
mains in such a perfect condition that it can
easily be traced without making any other ex-
cavations than those already made by the
winds and the storms.  The smaller pyramid
is encircled by rows of seats on two sides fac-
ing this causeway where, doubtless, on occasions
of great import and weight to the nation, sat
thousands of people.
	There is a book preserved of the writings of

[Column 2]
this people, describing a band that came from
across the sea at the confounding of the lan-
guages at the Tower of Babel.  It speaks of a
people that traveled through the wilderness
for years. They gathered with them a great
many seeds as well as the honey-bee. The
leader of this little band of twenty-two in-
dividuals found favor in the sight of God.
When the languages were confounded he
prayed to God that he might retain the lan-
guage of his fathers. His pleadings were
heard and granted, and encouraged by this
recognition of the Lord, he asked that he pre-
serve the language of his brother as well as
those who accompanied him. This prayer was
also granted. These writings also give further
details of their travels; how when they reached
the mighty waters they constructed eight barges
or boats and crossed the sea; how they increased
in wealth and population after they had landed
on this continent; how, as time passed on, strife
began, wickedness increased, righteousness
ceased, battles were fought and they became an
extinct people. The same writings also refer
to the re-peopling of this continent and give a
very similar account of it to that given by the
young brother this morning.
	When but a youth of fifteen years I was
met by the proposition that the Book of Mor-
mon was not true, as that book spoke of animals
which were not found on this continent when
Columbus discovered America; animals which
swere such a strange sight to the natives that
on the advent of Cortez and his army of five-
hundred men, carrying with them a number of
horses, the Aztecs imagined the men and horses
to be one being, when mounted, and that on 
this account many battles were won.  To this
proposition I could then only answer, "I be-
lieve the Book of Mormon to be true," but I 
could not tell why. But when a great French
explorer, while exhuming at a city sixty miles
from Mexico, discovered a large number of
animal bones, which were submitted to the
great scientific school at Mexico, the learned
savants pronounced them to be the bones of
cattle and horses. Then this explorer ex-
claimed, "If the learned men of Washington
and the wise savants of France shall agree
with the savants of Mexico, I shall have
opened up a branch of natural history and
science that will be a wonder to the world."
And it proved to be true. The learned men
agreed upon the decision of the Mexican sa-
vants. Thus we have scientific researchers, and
one by one they bear testimony, without a
knowledge of the contents of the Book of
Mormon by the discoverers, of the divinity of
this ancient history. We have a knowledge
through Joseph Smith's translation of the 
Book of Mormon, of the wars which devasta-
ted the country; of the retreat of the Nephites
in a northerly direction, step by step. Recent
scientific researches demonstrate this line of
retreat to have been truly described. The
signal stations of this retreating people can be
traced through Central America, the heart of 
Mexico, crossing the Mississippi River, thence
on across the Red River and up through Ohio,
until the people made their weary march to the
hill Cumorah, in New York, where 230,000
brave souls drew their last breath of life in
one day.
	Many of the fortifications on this line of
retreat are still preserved and show by their
choice of location as well as manner of con-
struction that the people who built them were


in dire distress.  We may read in these signs
that are left us, how this undaunted people
erected fortifications for the protection of their
families as they retreated, contending every
inch of ground, until the last battle-field was
reached.
	There are not many evidences left in the
Territory of Utah of this high, ancient civil-
ization, but that the Aztecs, who were a dark
race, came from the North and passed through
Utah and Arizona there is no doubt.  Through-
out the latter territory there are ruins of vast
cities and extensive canals stretching out for
miles and miles.  At Mesa, there is at present
a large ancient canal, constructed hundreds of
years ago, a great portion of which is even
now used by our people in the irrigation of
their lands.  There is no doubt that the whole
Salt River country at one time contained
a large and wealthy population.
	In the Rio Casa Grande, in Chihuahua,
more extended traces of a most sorely distressed
people are visible.  On every high point,
where the sun's rays could shed their warmth,
and where a single yard of land, protected
from the Pacific showers, could be used for
cultivation, human hands constructed stone
walls to hold in position enough soil from
which to raise a little food for a scanty sub-
sistance.  In the gorges below, villages, ham-
lets and tents were found, on the peaks above,
the signal stations, or the grave of the poor
sentinel who died at his post.  In the valleys
were the larger towns, but wherever a human
foot could find a resting place the ground has
been utilized.
	On either side of the Rio Verde can be
found numerous caves containing many rooms
of ancient construction.  They also are built
as true to the line and plumb, and as well, yes,
better plastered than our houses, for they are
plastered with cement.  I counted seventeen
rooms in one of these caves.  On the walls are
writings in ancient characters, inscriptions
that would tell a wonderful story of a dis-
tressed, suffering, retreating people.  Some day
a prophet and a revelator may arise among
the Latter-day Saints who in the Lord's own
time may read them and make them known to
us.
	These caves as a rule terminate at the end
of a small valley while on either side rise per-
pendicular walls of stone hundreds of feet in 
height.  Think of the distress of that people!
Their caves were solidly walled up in front
with but a small opening, just large enough
for the passage of a human being, and the
portholes through which they shot their arrows
or other missiles.  The opening of these caves
commanded a full view of the valley on either
side and had flanked fortifications where the
men fought on the outside while their wives
 and children received protection from within.
When forced to retreat the small opening was
walled up while they lived on the provisions
they had stored up.  They had large tanks in
these caves, those which were elevated proba-
bly being used for the provisions, while those
in the bottom of the caves were used for water.
One of these large tanks still remains.  Here
you can find the cobs which held their corn;
the broken mills on which their corn was
ground.  By excavating a few feet, removing
the debris which has accumulated during cen-
turies, you may pull out strings of ocean beads
which crumble in your hands and vanish leav-
ing you but the string.  How many years have
passed since these threads were spun and these
beads strung is not for me to say.  But this
much is certain, those who built, and toiled, and
labored in these days were a white race.  When
we employed a surveyor to lay out a canal
near the spot where a number of our people
had taken refuge, he tried for several days
without success and finally located it in the
channel of an old canal.  Surrounding this

[Column 2]
spot there was not a single foot of land but
what had been cultivated centuries before.  I
have touched briefly on these matters to show
how God can build up a great nation to-day
and tear it down to-morrow.  The Book of 
Mormon plainly declares that no kingly gov-
ernment shall prosper upon this land.  This is
the land of Joseph; this is the fruitful bough;
this is the land seen in vision and described as
a land flowing with milk and honey.  God in-
tended this people to be a free people, to be in-
telligent, to exercise their own agency and to
delight in righteousness.  It is a pleasure to
read of the blessings decreed by God on all
the people inhabiting North and South 
America.  But it is with deep sorrow that I
see this great nation, of which Columbus was a
forerunner, and to whom the Lamanites gave
way as the dew before the morning sun, is be-
coming corrupt.  It is with great misgivings that
I see the nation dwindling from the glorious
principles of the law of God, whereas, if the
people would live righteously, it would become
and remain the most powerful nation on earth.
But if they will not heed God's commands,
but practice all manner of wickedness and
corruption the nation will not stand.  Look at
Rome!  How she ground the nations—how
she ruled them at her beck and call!  Yet
she fell prey at the feet of barbarians in a
few years.  This was because she lost her in-
tegrity, her union, and her strength through
her corruption, and still this nation was the
most powerful on earth when her sons were
pure and devoted to their country.
	We now have before us, in brief, the history
of the people that lived upon this continent,
not only in the Book of Mormon, but in all
the ruins of their work; it cannot be disputed,
and God knows, as we ought to know by these
evidences, that an intelligent people once lived
here.  The great highways and stupendous
aqueducts found in Central America and built
by this people as far surpass the engineering
skill displayed in the building of the Union
Pacific and the Central Pacific as you can im-
agine.  Their mines were well developed.  I
have seen beautiful copper needles, copper
bells and a thousand works of art which have
laid buried for ages.
	This was not the people that believed in
human sacrifices. It was the people that came
after them who would at the end of a cycle of
fifty years turn out at midnight, find a willing
victim, carry him to the highest eminence
where they had their altars raised, stretched
him on this altar with bared back and chest,
strike the knife to his breast, tear out the yet
palpitating heart, and then thrust sticks into the
gaping wound and rub them together to cause
fire.  This race was the people that believed
that at the close of such sacrifices the smiles
of their god would rest upon them for another
cycle of fifty years; it was not the people that
built the pyramids, the temples and the high-
ways, and that brought up the cultivation of
the ground to such perfection.
	Could we but have the writings of this peo-
ple!  Could we but have the cords of books
and records burned by the Catholic priests, how
much we would know of this people, if those
writings were interpreted.  But they believed
it necessary to wipe out all traces of ancient
tradition and all evidences upon which rested
the faith of the Indians, in order to lead them
to the belief of another God.  Yet when these
priests, with great reverence opened the Bible
and began to teach the Indian, he would say,
"Why we have heard these things before; we
have them in our holy book."  "Where is
this book?"  The priests would ask.  The 
Indian would say, "It is buried in the earth,
yours is but a copy of ours."
	This book, according to tradition, teaches
that at one time a white being dwelt in their
midst who taught them to open their mines

[Column 3]
and cultivate the ground.  He left them, but
promised that he would return and rule over
them as king.  It was this tradition that filled
Montezuma with fear and supersition lest the
prophecy was about to be fulfilled, and which
enabled Cortez and his five hundred men to do
the work they did.  Montezuma had himself
subjugated thirty-two countries surrounding
Mexico.  He and his followers were as courag-
eous as lions.  He had millions of people
ready to do his bidding.  How could so few
white men enter into the heart of such a coun-
try and conquer it?  It was the fear which
this tradition had brought upon them that
caused Montezuma and his people to waste
away before the Spaniards.  The people had
slain the prophets and the revelators and must
receive in turn that which they had dealt out.
	Yet this is a bright people.  I saw in the
City of Mexico an Indian studying French,
German and English at the same time, besides
teaching a school four hours a day.  And yet
by his side was as bright an American youth
as is commonly found, struggling hard to mas-
ter one language alone.  The Mexican orator
whose name has become famous, was possessed
of such an eloquence in picturing the victory
of the Republic in the war of the Revolution
that the Secretary of State fell upon his neck
and surrendered the homage due to this man.
And yet he was a pure Aztec.
	Mexico is a progressive nation.  We call her
semi-barbarous, but I look to see the time
when the Mexican people will be as bright and
intelligent as they now are kind, affectionate,
and hospitable.  The Mexican people must not
be judged by the elements on the border, for
there, as is generally the case, congregate the 
scum of both nations."
	Following the remarks quoted, Apostle
Thatcher reviewed briefly the history of the
people from the time the Angel Moroni guided
Joseph Smith to the hill Cumorah up to the
present, bearing a strong testimony of the
truth, and exhorting the congregation to
humility, and to cultivate a spirit of forgive-
ness toward all men; he said: "I know that
God demands a forgiving spirit, charity, and
humility.  I know that this people will come
off victorious.	*	*	Live your re-
ligion; be generous and kind.  Let the
teachers hunt up the destitute and poor, no
matter of what color or creed.  Give, and []
shall return unto you."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Wednesday afternoon, Nov. 21, a largely at-
tended meeting of the Massachusets Woman
Suffrage Association was held in the Meionaon.
Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney presided, and in her
opening address reviewed the good work done
by women upon school boards. There were,
she said, more than one hundred women mem-
bers of the school boards throughout the State
and in no instance was there occasion for cen-
sure. Whenever women had been admitted
consultations regarding school matters, they
had proven themselves worthy to advise.

	The annual meeting of the Nebraska Suffrage
Association will open at Omaha, Dec. 3, and
continue through the following day. Addresses
will be made by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and
Susan B. Anthony. Business meetings will
be held morning and afternoon of Dec. 4, and
in the evening the delegates will be invited to
a reception, by Mrs. Clark Woodman, in honor
of Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony. Each
auxiliary Society may send three delegates.
The dues from auxiliary societies are twenty
five cents per member. Any person not a
 member of an auxiliary society may become a
member of the State Association, by payment 
of fifty cents.				
CLARA B. COLBY, Prest.
M. ISABEL BOND, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A LAMENT.
I stand where I last stood with thee!
Sorrow, O sorrow!
There is not a leaf on the trysting-tree;
There is not a joy on the earth to me;
Sorrow, O sorrow!
When shalt thou be once again what thou wert?

O, the sweet yesterdays fled from the heart,
Have they a morrow?—
Here we stood, ere we parted so close side by side;
Two lives that thus part are as ships that divide,
When moment on moment there rushes between
The one and the other, a sea;—
Oh, never can fall from the days that have been. 
A gleam on the years that shall be!
	LYTTON.


THE OLD HOME.

I have gone—I cannot always go, you know;
Best 'tis so—
Home across the distant ridges of the years;
With my tears:
And the old house, standing still on the old ground,
There I found.
In the parlor, in my fancy, I could trace
Father's face;
And my mother, with her old accustomed air,
Sitting there;
While beside them brothers, sisters, true and good,
Silent stood.
Through the stillness swam the song of summer bird,
And there stirred
On the wall the leaf-flecked sunshine; and its glow
Faded slow;
But from all the loving lips I watched around—
Not a sound.
Of the breaths that stirred the draperies to and fro
Long ago;
Of the eyes that through the casement used to peep
Out of sleep;
Of the feet that in these chambers used to run—
Now are none.
Of the sunshine pouring downward from the sky,
Blue and high;
Of the leafage and the ancient garden plot;
Brown and hot;
Of the streamlet, and the shingle, and the tide—
These abide.
But beyond its azure vaulting overhead
Are my dead;
Though their graves were dug apart in many lands,
Joining hands,
They have gathered and are waiting till I come.
That is home!
	—Presbyterian.


CHRISTMAS

	Ah, me! It is Christmas time, merry and 
joyous. What sweet recollections are recalled 
to mind on this happy occasion. Old folks
and young join in gay pastimes, and it is not
only a reason of rejoicing, but of refreshing,
bodily and mentally. For a few hours, at least,
peace is the sentiment of all honest hearts, and
harshness and ingratitude are banished. The 
very name suggests innocence, purity and love;
for is it not the embodiment and name of the
dear Savior, the blessed Redeemer, who came
with the gladdest message that was ever brought
to human hearts; the tidings of salvation? The 
most precious gift vouchsafed to man upon
earth; and in imitation of His glorious example,
mankind bestow the most fitting gift upon one
another in remembrance of the blessed day,
when unto the holy virgin a son was born,
whose name was Emmanuel. Yes, He who
said, "Love one another." On this day all
who desire to be his followers should put away
all ill-feeling, and try to forgive and forget
and to do some good deed, as well as bestow

(Column 2)
costly gifts on those who are dear to them by
the ties of kindred or friendship. The poor
whom Jesus loved and sought to please are re-
membered on this day, more bounteously, per-
haps, than on any other day in all the year. 
Blessed day! that brings gladness to so many 
lonely hearts! Blessed Savior! whose advent 
upon earth we celebrate so joyfully. What
better tribute could we pay to him who loved
the poor, the meek and the lowly ones, than to
minister to these His children, and share with
them the blessings kind heaven has boun-
tifully vouchsafed; thus fulfilling His in-
junction, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto 
one of these ye have done it unto me." And
in blessing we have the promise of being
blessed in return. He who pours out abun-
dantly upon the poor and unfortunate, will find
his heart lighter, and in the hour of trial or of
sorrow, will recall with satisfaction the good
deeds which are recorded in his favor by the 
angels above, and which may perchance insure 
him a safer passage into the realms of happi-
ness. There is no pleasure so intense as that of
bestowing happiness upon others. And on
this day when all join in calling down blessings
upon each other, surely the angels shout and 
sing for joy over those who are walking in
Jesus' footsteps, treading the paths which will
lead where He has gone, to prepare a place for
those who love Him and keep His command-
ments.
	This is an exalting theme, and an inexhaus-
tible one; but lest I weary my readers by pur-
suing a monotonous strain, let us go back to 
childhood or wonder-land, where we all have 
been "once upon a time," and ramble a little 
over enchanted ground, where erst the fairies
sported, and Santa Claus held unbounded do-
minion at this season of the year. Who does
not remember Santa Claus? Dear old fellow;
children almost worship him, and are always 
on their good behavior when this antique genii
is expected. They are told the most extrava-
gant tales, and in many instances, the impres-
sions thus made, are so strong and lasting, that
in maturer years, one can shut his eyes and
imagine dear old St. Nicholas, driving his rein-
deers, eight in hand, muffled in furs and covered
with bells, that always peal merrily, merrily,
gliding over the house tops, dropping the bon 
bons and goodies down the chimneys, and skim-
ming along as easily as though he rode on the
fleecy white clouds. Who is there who cannot 
remember popping out of bed in the gray morn-
ing, with a trailing night robe on, to see what 
Santa Claus had left in the stocking by the 
chimney corner, the dear little barefeet,
blessed footprints "on the sands of time!" 
Without entering upon any dissertation upon
the merits or demerits of such fanciful tradi-
tions, let us take a cursory view of the Christ-
mas of to-day. This is a most extraordinary
age, and the people have made great discoveries 
in all the various departments of the arts and 
sciences. The spirit of invention is rife, and
there is nothing seemingly that can be made,
that has not been attempted in the way of 
utility or ornament. Consequently, there are
articles of every description and quality, suited
to the individual or circumstances: and all may 
be gratified in the selection of appropriate gifts.
	But after all is there not a certain nice dis-
crimination to be observed in choosing or
adapting a gift to the recipient, and is there
not a means of bestowal which brightens the
poorest present, making it exceed in value the 
costliest given in an ostentatious manner. There 
is certainly a great deal yet to be learned about 
the method of giving.
	The poor who possess innate refinement of
character, or perhaps may have seen better
days, may be so wounded by the manner in
which the Christmas dinner is given or the 
simple offering made to them, that a morsel of 
bread and water would be preferable. And 
even friends are oftimes careless how the gift is
conveyed, and think perchance it matters little.
It would be sad indeed if this practice has be-
come so common that one takes no thought of
the manner of it, but gives simply that it may
be said of him, he gave liberally or to be in
the fashion. True love, esteem or friendship, a 
desire to actually bless others should be the 
motive, and let us be charitable enough to
think that in most instances it is so; though
the hurry and bustle of this workday world 
make us now and then forget how beautiful it 
is to do all things gracefully.
	I know it is sometimes remarked by very
practical, matter of fact people, that it is all
nonsense to decorate and take such pains to 
gather evergreens, flowers and holly berries
for Christmas and holidays, but I beg leave to
differ, and to declare that these inanimate
things possess in a great degree the power of 
imparting efficacy to thought and feeling and
appeal strongly to the heart which is the high-
est embodiment of sensibility or approximates
nearest to the soul. Therefore I would say do
not shut out all the beautiful, and live within
four bare walls, but adorn your homes with 
those things which will suggest pleasant themes
for conversation, which will remind you of in-
nocence, and draw your thoughts towards that 
paradise you may attain, through diligence in 
good works where all is beauty and glory and 
brightness supernal.
	Yes, the mistletoe and holly are specially 
dear to every English heart, and their custom
of celebrating Christmas, reminds one of the 
days of chivalry of which the bards and poets
sang: 

"Children like holly berries,
Dear little robin said;
Gather them, bunch them together,
Mix with the green, the red.

"For if you love the children, 
It has been said some time,
In every holly berry,
Santa Claus hides a rhyme.

"Somebody pulled an armful,
Ran quickly home to look;
Found, for she so loves children,
Rhymes enough for a book."

	The Savior, Himself, beautifully illustrate
the most sublime sayings, and instructs His
disciples in parables that surpass in richness
and delicacy of sentiment, any productions of 
man. They are all the more forcible, because
 they are clothed by the touch of divine beauty. 
Who does not know that flowers inspire the 
tenderest emotions, that the evergreens and 
immortelles recall the immortal and imperish-
able? By all means encourage the beautiful,
be it ever so simple. 

"Fair nature's sweet symplicity
With elegance refined."

	What is there more touching in expression 
than the Savior's words:

	"Consider the lilies, how they grown, they toil not, neither
do they spin, and yet Solomon in all his glory was not
arrayed like one of these."

	But so dearly do I love the lilies, and such
like charming things, that lest I enter into an
elaborate dissertation upon flowers and trailing 
vines, winter berries and forest boughs, I will
say to my patient readers and dear, good
friends, known or unknown, "A Merry Christ-
mas" and "A Happy New Year," peace, happi-
ness and prosperity."
	AUNT EM.


Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, author of "Gate
Ajar," was married October 20, to Rev. H. D.
Ward, of the New York Independent. The
bride is an elderly woman of forty-five, while
Mr Ward has not yet reached his thirty-fifth
birthday.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space; one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMEAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 1, 1888.


[Column 1]

LIFE OF HEBER C. KIMBALL.

	The life of this great Apostle, Heber C. Kim-
ball, written by his grandson, Bishop O. F.
Whitney, has been completed and is now before
the public. It is a book of which all the Latter-
day Saints may justly be proud. It is as original
in style as the man whose life it portrays was in
character and expression. Bro. Kimball had a
style of his own, that no one else could imitate
without making himself ridiculous, because in
another person it was unnatural and apparently
"put on," while in Bro. Heber, as he was famil-
iarly called in early days, there was no effort or
affectation of manner or appearance. He was a
man of commanding figure and a magnificent
presence. He possessed in a large degree the
qualities of a leader which were emphatically
manifest on many occasions. In times of dan-
ger he was fearless as a lion, and, as his bio-
grapher says, "probably a braver man never
lived." His enemies knew it and respected him
for his genuine courage quite as much as his
friends.
	The book posesses all the fascination of a
sublime psalm or poem. The style is poetic and
inspirational and one cannot glance through it,
without feeling an intense sympathy with the
writer in his subject. He certainly had a lofty
theme, and he has handled it grandly and grace
fully.
	The book is dedicated thus, by the author:
"To the memory of my Grandfather and to the
great Cause of Truth, for which he lived and died;
and to all who love that Memory and that Cause."
	The volume contains five hundred and twenty
pages in sixty-eight chapters besides an appendix.
There is rather a lengthy preface giving some
general explanations, and the first chapter opens
the subject with, contents; "A Pre-existant
Glimpse—God's Noble and Great Ones—Heber
C. Kimball a Pre-destined Prophet—Opening of
the Last Dispensation—Heber's Birth and Paren-
tage—Early Incidents of His Life—Clouds and
Sunshine."
	Each chapter is similarly summed up, so that it
is easy to find any particular time or event by re-
ference to the table of contents, thus rendering it
comparatively easy to review the work. The
author has spared no pains to make his work
acceptable; the elegance of his style and the
perceptible choice of the best words in the English
language, help to make the book a literary
success.
	Steel engravings of Heber C. Kimball and
Vilate Kimball, Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and
Brigham Young embellish the work. It is printed
in large clear type on a fine quality of paper and
is handsomely bound in leather. It will be a
valuable acquisition to the libraries of the people.
It cannot fail but interest all who read it, and is

[Column 2]

well calculated to stimulate the youth of Zion to
earnest endeavors in the right direction, and to
awaken high and noble aspirations that will lead
them onward to success in difficult undertakings,
and arm them with courage, to cope with trials,
adversity and opposition, with that unflinching
resolution that is in itself a power and strength.
	One of the chapters opens thus: "Preaching
the Gospel and converting sinners unto Christ,
never yet depended for success upon man's learn-
ing or the music of oratory. The unlettered fish-
erman of Galilee, proclaiming in simple words
"Christ Crucified," were far more powerful in
winning souls from error's ways and melting the
hearts of the multitude, than would all the
orators have been. The Herods, Ciceros, or
Demosthenes of Judea, Greece and Rome." This
is indeed a grand truth beautifully told, but there
must be something genuine in the soul of that
man who can without education, without learning
carry convictiou to the hearts of his hearers.
His subject may be an exalted one, but unless he
is capable of entering into it with his whole soul,
his efforts to convince others will be fruitless.
Heber C. Kimball possessed this genuineness in
a very great degree. He felt intensely whatever
he said and whatever he preached, consequently
he made others feel. His biographer has deeply
felt the grandeur of his subject, and has written
with a force and vigor of expression, that stamps
itself perceptibly on every page. The reader
will be in sympathy with the writer and the work
will grow more and more interesting as he reads
on and on, not so much, it may be, for the history
of the man, or the general historical character of
the work, but for that inexpressible quality in
speaking and in writing that touches a sympa-
thetic chord in the individual, and lifts him into a
higher realm of thought where truth sparkles
with a new lustre, and all that is false fades into
insignificance. But we would not for a moment
under-estimate the book as a history; the history
of a great man—a man of God—a pioneer and a
man of advanced thought—a prophet in very
deed as many dally testify.
	The life and character of Vilate Kimball also
form an important part of the book. Her life
was closely interwoven with that of her husband,
and her many superior womanly qualities, so
happily portrayed by the author must call forth
the admiration of all into whose hands the book
will fall. Together hand in hand indissolubly
bound as husband and wife they laid the founda-
tion of a great patriarchal family; for the man is
not without the woman in the Lord, and Heber C.
Kimball, great as he was, could not have attained
to the honors he did had he not been associated
with a woman like Vilate; she was a part of his life,
and strong as he was he leaned upon her almost
as much as she did upon him. She was a stay and
a refuge for him throughout his eventful life, and
it no doubt made him more humble and childlike
in his nature, this devotion to the wife of his
youth. All this is gracefully told by the author
but in every life the unwritten is by far the greater
part. Vilate Kimball's life, as some of her inti-
mate friends knew it, never could be written, it is
above the pen of the most accomplished or in-
genious writer; but it is not our intention to tell
what we know about the people, but to review the
book; therefore, without reference to individuals,
we, can safely say the book reccomends itself, and
when read needs no other endorsement. There
are many thrilling incidents related, stories told
abounding with humor and one who knew Bro.
Heber can almost see in fancy the twinkle of his
piercing black eye, and the merry laugh that
was so contagious whenever indulged in, some-
times to his great annoyance.
	The founding of the British Mission forms one
 of the grand epochs in the Church, and is a
remarkable proof of Bro. Heber's leadership, and
also of his having been called of God. His

[Column 3]

family must certainly be proud of so illustrious a
husband and father, and it is very commendable
in them to have undertaken the publication of his
life. The ability of the author as a writer was
very well established before he undertook this
work, but he has succeeded in making his book
more highly interesting than even his admiring
friends anticipated. The book will live, for truth
never perisheth. The character of the man has
in no instance, so far as we are capable of judg-
ing, been overdrawn. It is not a eulogy, but a
record of this remarkable man worthy to be en-
graven in the hearts of his posterity.


SANTA CRUZ AND THE BIG TREES.

	After visiting Monterey, the next place of im-
portance that is likely to attract visitors is Santa
Cruz, a very old Spanish town, rambling and
picturesque, and one might almost fancy it was an
ancient city in the old world, so foreign and un-
American does everything appear. In the sum
mer time it is a favorite pleasure and bathing
resort, and as it has miles upon miles of sea beach,
where carriages may drive in full view of the
ocean, it is not strange that pleasure-seekers
should flock thither in the season thereof. When
we visited it, however, it was not under such
favorable circumstances; the weather was chilly
and damp, and the leaden November sky was not
calculated to beautify the quaint old place, that
might have looked charming in the golden sun-
shine of October. However, we made the most
of the time after breakfasting at the hotel, for we
had left the Del Monte without anything to eat;
took a carriage and drove through the town, and
thence to the beach, which was by far the most
interesting. The waves were billowy, and the
ocean wild, but it was more grand than in a calm,
and the effect upon the imagination was indescrib-
able. All that the poets have ever written, all the
bards have ever sung, all the eloquence of human
language fails, when compared to the reality itself,
when one comes into harmony with the voices of
many waters. But one cannot linger long even by
the seashore, if the time is limited, and ours was,
for we must do a certain amount of sight seeing
in a given time, so we drove on to the “Shell
Store,” where we alighted and examined the wares,
curiosities of various kinds from the sea, an end-
less variety of shells, corals, sea-weed, etc. One
might linger there for days, and marvel at the
works of nature even in the great deep, but we
only made a very few purchases and withdrew.
We had a fine view of the sea for many miles, in
fact until we reached the woods, and woods, in-
deed, it was—a forest of pines. The road for
some distance skirted a steep hill, where the tops
of the tall trees from the ravine below were almost
even with the road, and we were just as it were on
the edge of a bank, where, if we made any false 
move in driving, we would have been precipitated
hundreds of feet below.
	As we proceeded the country became more even
and the trees were so tall we seemed to look up
in vain to discern their towering height. At
length, after winding round and round these giants
of the forest, we reached what is known as the
“Big Trees,” and there we halted. 
	After making some inquiries about the train, we
concluded to dismiss the carriage, and wait there
for the train, though there is really nothing to see
except the mammoth trees. Some of the largest
trees have been named for the great Generals in 
the army; one of the very largest is called Gen.
Sherman, another Gen. Grant, and so on; two or 
three of them had been hollowed out by burning, 
and were like a room inside. Hundreds of cards
of people from all parts of the world were pinned
up inside these hollow trees. The height seemed
to us really more surprising than the circumfer-
ence. We wandered around through this grove
of big pines, our thoughts occupied not only with


what we could see, but with the history of the
past, what race of people had wandered through
these dense forests, and what was their condition
and customs, and their habits? Why was this
spot historical? Was there not a history more in-
teresting, if it were known, than just these wonder-
ful trees? But one can only conjecture and query
concerning past events, of which there is no
record, there is no one to answer the inquiries;
no Rip Van Winkle who has been sleep-
ing for centuries to come forth and en-
lighten us, though the place was weird
enough for hobgoblins and wizards; one
could almost fancy there would be something 
supernatural, but we saw nothing except a moun-
tain, stretched out dead that had been killed and
left upon the ground. While waiting here for the
train we had some conversation about South
America and other lands that lie beyond the sea
with a Dutch professor from Ghent in Belgium.
Adolph De Cueleneer, a professor of Art and An-
tiquites. He was quite entertaining, and was
very learned and had traveled extensively. He 
carried away several pieces of the wood from
these enormous trees, and some specimens of
plants. At length the narrow gauge train drew
up and we went aboard gladly for we were very
tired. The road lay along a very fine part of
the country; scenery charming, some autumnal
tints; though not the variety one finds here or in 
places where there are frosts to tone and color
them. The pepper trees are very handsome
indeed, graceful in shape and beautiful in con-
trast of color, the green leaves and bright red
berries. Pretty little towns and villages are 
scattered all along the way. The train passes 
through San Jose and Santa Clara, and we get a 
glimpse of the famous Lick Observatory as we
are leaving Santa Clara. It resembles in the dis-
tance a large square block of white granite up
among the clouds like a vast temple. We also
see the State  Insane Asylum, the third in Cali-
fornia it is near Agnews Station; it is an immense
brick structure, modern in style of architecture,
Nearing San Francisco we passed Riverside
Hotel, a summer resort well patronized.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball spent several weeks
there last summer visiting her brother, the pro-
prietor, Mr. Farley Granger well known to many
of our people. At Alameda we take the Steamer
for San Francisco, and the ride by moonlight with
the lights of a great city in view is lovely be-
yond description.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ANOTHER souvenir of the holidays and the New
Year is a Calender of 1889, fastened together with
rings and a chain to hang it by, and pretty little
ornamental cord and tassels. Outside are two
children among flowers, and the second page
represents the ringing of the bells, fastened to the
wheel of time. Each month has an appropriate
simile in the picture, and last of all a couple of
children swinging in a hammock. The design is
by J. Pauline Sunter, and the work is copyrighted
by Lee & Shepard, of Boston. The Calendar is
for sale at James Dwyer's book store, Main St.,
Salt Lake City. It is well worth purchasing, both
for beauty and utility. It is a delicate little me-
mento for an expression of affection or esteem.
	Two of the daintiest gift books we have ever
seen, are from Lee and Shepard, Boston, Mass.,
and are for Christmas and New Years. The one
for Christmas is entitled, "A Christmas Carol,"
with words from the gifted pen of Dinah Maria
Mulock. The pictures are exquisite, and are
suited to the verse of the poem upon the same
page. Outside the book is a picture repre-
senting a child under a tree filled with fruit, and
birds among the boughs. It is a very pretty de-
sign, and delicately drawn. The New Year's

[Column 2]

book is entitled, "A Friend stands at the Door,"
and the words are also by the late favorite author,
Dinah Maria Mulock. The outside leaf or cover
of the folio has a picture of a child in a bank of 
delicate flowers. This book represents the New
Year in poem and engraving as the other does 
Christmas, and it is impossible to say which is the
most beautiful. There are twelve leaves of heavy
cardboard, the best in quality, gilt-edged and
artistically fastened together with colored satin
ribbon. Among the collection of handsome holi-
day books there are none more suitable for a 
present. Each picture tells a story of itself in its
own beautiful way, and the verses are touching
and musical. The books are for sale at James
Dwyer's book store, Salt Lake City. Every lady
should examine these pretty specimens of art.
	THE marriage of Miss Rachel G. Foster, of
Philadelphia, was solemnized Nov. 8, at the
Spring Garden Unitarian Church, in Philadelphia.
The happy bridegroom is Mr. Cyrus Miller Avery.
The ceremony was performed by Rev. Charles G.
Ames, assisted by Rev. Annie Shaw. The recep-
tion was given at Pittsburgh by the many friends
of Mr. and Mrs. Foster Avery. Afterwards they
were to visit friends at Indianapolis, Louisville,
Chicago and Buffalo before returning to Philadel-
phia. Miss Foster has been an ardent advocate
of woman suffrage from her girlhood, and an
active worker for more than ten years. She was
chosen Corresponding Secretary of the National
Woman Suffrage Association when Mrs. Sara
Andrews Spencer resigned, and has for years
filled that position with ability, good judgment
and remarkable tact. The success of the Interna-
tional Council was largely due to the executive
ability of this young lady, as Miss Anthony very
gracefully acknowledged at the close of the session.
Mr. Avery, it is said, fell in love with her upon the
platform. We have the pleasure of knowing Miss
Foster personally, and have a most sincere ad-
miration for her many excellent qualities. She
understands how to be both just and generous to
all connected with the N. W. S. A., and is not
hampered with the prejudices that sometimes
hinder equality of representation and are barriers
to progress. We extend the most sincere con-
gratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Foster Avery, and
wish them every blessing in their new-found happi-
ness.
	THERE is quite an elaborate display being made
in the shop windows and stores for the holidays.
There never was a time when so much talent and
 ingenuity were displayed in making and selling
various articles for use and ornamentation as at
present. It would seem that everything had been
thought of that the human mind could conceive to
beautify the home and happify the heart. The large
windows of Z. C. M. I. are handsomely and taste-
fully arrayed, making a fine showing of elegant
goods. C. R. Savage's Art Bazar has a fine col-
lection of pictures and other things in their line
on exhibition, and they have a choice selection of
books. The views they have for sale, of their
own special work; of scenes in the Rocky Moun
tains, are a great attraction. Visitors to the city
and tourists make a specialty of views in and
around the Rocky Mountains. Mr. James Dwyer
is not behind any enterprising citizen in his stock
of Christmas presents nor in their qualities, in
excellence or beauty. He carries a very heavy
stock, perhaps the largest of any house of the
kind; at any rate, the variety seems endless, and
there are pretty articles with prices suitable to the
poor as well as the rich. No one need go without
a Christmas present to bestow, if the inclination
tends in that direction. Mr. Dwyer has among
his goods some very odd articles, that would
please the most unreasonable purchaser. Other
stores carrying a heavy amount of goods are mak-
ing the most of their opportunity at this auspicious
season of the year for a fine display, and inviting

[Column 3]

customers. It would not be possible to go into
detail in describing the Christmas goods. An ad-
miring public must see the effort made to please
and to solicit custom.
	Miss M. Glassford, of Chicago is in the city in
the interest of a medical work she is desirous of
circulating in the Territory. She is employing
agents to canvass for the work, both men and
women. The book is entitled, "The Practical
Home Physician." Sub-headings are, "A Popular
Guide for the Household," and "Management of
Disease, Giving the history, cause, means of pre-
vention and symptoms of all diseases of "Men,
Women and Children," and the most approved
methods of treatment with plain instruction for
the care of the sick. Full and accurate directions
for treating "Wounds, Injuries, Poisoning," etc.;
also giving a concise account of the structure and
functions of the human body, hygiene and rules of
health." The book is illustrated with handsome
colored plates.  It is written by four very learned
doctors—Henry M. Lyman, A. M. M. D., Chris-
tian Fenger, A. M. M. D., H. Webster James, A.
M. M. D., W. L. Belfield, A. M. M. D. The book
is certainly a very good one of its kind, and seems
more explicit in detail than many medical books.
It is a book that it would be well for any young
mother to have for reference; in fact such
books are needed in every family. The colored
plates represent the bones, nerves, arteries brain,
explaining each, with reference to the whole.
Another particular feature of the book is the pre-
paration of medicines and the plants used as in-
gredients; there are 16 pages of these plants, with
four on each page, making 64 varieties thus repre-
sented. The book contains nearly 1100 pages, and
is handsomely bound. It is printed in crown
type upon heavy paper. The volume contains
much very valuable information, and cannot fail
to be useful and beneficial in the community. The
names of the plants and all other explanations are
given in plain English, and can consequently be
perfectly understood. No Latin phrases used
It tells you how to prepare nourishing food for the
sick, and how to administer medicines, the quantity
of all kinds named, as well as the properties.


MRS. EAST'S LETTER.

MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG:
	DEAR SISTER:—I should have addressed you
ere this, but having delayed until your return, I
now proceed to give you a short report of my
labors in the Arizona settlements.
	In July, 1879, I received my appointment, and
was set part under the hands of Apostle Erastus
Snow to labor in the Eastern Arizona Stake, where
I visited, assisting in the organization of the Relief
Society, continuing to visit and hold meetings
until Oct., 1882, when I came over to Graham Co.,
which, at that time, belonged to Eastern Arizona
Stake, visiting the Saints in the Gila Valley; here
we find one of the most productive, fertile valleys
that the Mormon people have ever had the privi-
lege of colonizing, and I feel it a duty that I owe
to those who are not acquainted with the facts, to
correct the misrepresentations that have gone
abroad, that this is one of the most sickly coun-
tries inhabited by the Latter-day Saints; here in
the Pima Ward, where I reside, in one block of
the school there is over one hundred and fifty
scholars enrolled, and if there is a child sick with
chills or any other disease, I am not informed
of it. 
	The St. Joseph Stake was organized in 1883,
when I was appointed to labor in the great Stake
named in honor of the martyred Prophet, so stated
by Joseph F. Smith in a letter to my husband. He
said the Presidency sat in council and gave it that
name; said it was a very important Stake, includ-
ing three nationalities. The work has truly com-
menced among the house of Jacob, although there


is a lethargy among the people; we can see the
hand of God in colonizing this land, in fulfillment
of the saying of the great latter-day prophet.
	Apostle Thatcher said: "Brethren and sisters
many of you wonder why you are here, you have
left your beautiful homes surrounded with fruits
and flowers, let me tell you. God called you, He
wants you here. This was a great help to me to
labor in the uttermost part of the vineyard where
I can do some good.
	We have ten Branches of the Relief Society
in this Stake and some living active Saints among
the sisters; we hold our monthly meetings regu-
larly and take into consideration the nursing and
care of the sick, although there is not an Ac-
coucher with a diploma, in all the land there has
not been a single case lost in confinement, except
one and that was premature. I once heard
Prest. Young say he could organize two colonies
with the same climate and give one colony two
physicians the other none; leave them ten years
and the one without a doctor would outnumber
the other; so you see we have the privilege of
developing our faith."
	Prest. Layton has given us that encouragement
that is necessary for the advancement and pro-
gress of the Society, in fact, all of the organiza-
tion receives his attention. We have had no fines
nor imprisonments in this stake, which is attribu-
ted to his wise management and the mercy of
God in giving us a Governor that had soul and
brain enough to veto that unconstutitional and de-
basing test oath that was a disgrace to our Gov-
ernment, and painful to the heart of every patrio-
tic soul. What must be the feelings of the
framers of the constitution to look down and see
and hear a legal heir to that freedom they so
bravely won, receiving that detestable oath?
Ministering angels that bear messages to the
eternal worlds, stand recoiled and abashed with
horror at the sight.
		W. EAST.
	Pima, Graham Co. Arizona; Oct. 20, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ORGANIZATION.

DEAR EDITOR:
	With great pleasure I communicate to your very
interesting paper the following items from North
Point:
	On the 11th of September, 1888, we were visited
by Sisters M. I. Horne and Elizabeth Howard, and
by our Bishop and Counselors, assisted by Bishop
Schoenfield, of Brighton, we were organized into
a Relief Society. The following officers were
elected: Hannah Hanson, President; Margaret
Reid and Ann Williams, Counselors; Margaret A.
Hanson, Secretary; Rozina Rudy, Treasurer.
The officers were blessed and set apart under the
hands of the Bishopric.
	We had some good instruction given us, and
were encouraged in the duties we have to perform.
We held our first meeting on the 19th of Sept.,
1888.
	Praying that the blessings of God may be with
us all, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel.
	MARGARET A. HANSON, Secretary.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. P. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

CLARKSTON PRIMARY.
	Primary annual meeting of Clarkston, held
Nov. 5th 1888, Prest. C. Thompson presiding.
Singing. Prayer by O. A. Jensen. Singing.
Roll called. Minutes of previous annual
meeting read and accepted.
	Coun. Sarah Shumway asked the Bible ques-
tions, which were answered in concert; William
Shumway, recitation; Dannie and Eddie God-
frey, recitation from card on good manners;
Sister E. J. Jardine asked Bible questions,

[Column 2]

which were answered by the following little
girls: Katie Godfrey, May Jardine, Melissa
Griffin, Sadie Shumway and Susie Atkinson;
Ellie Ogilvie sang a song; Tommy Griffin, reci-
tation; May and Johney Jardine, a song.
	Bro. A. G. White addressed the children a short time.
	Dialogue, Annie Looslie and company; reci-
tation, George Sparks; Ellie Harris, Essay;
Maggie Jensen, recitation; Lettie Shumway,
recitation. Prest. Mary Griffin addressed the
children on obedience. Katie Myler and Ellen
Clark recited Motto Card, No. 5; Johnny
Thompson and Lettie Shumway recited the
Lord's Prayer.
	Sister Agnes Jardine Spoke to the children
in a very encouraging manner.
	Coun. O. A. Jensen gave a brief address,
touching on many useful matters.
	Prest., C. Thompson said she was greatly 
pleased with the way in which the exercises
had been rendered; she would like to have seen
more of the parents present. Told the children
they must all come to the party at 2 p.m.
Singing. Benediction by Prest. C. Thompson.
		SYLVA THOMPSON, Secretary.

UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the second conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion, which
convened in the Ashley meeting house, Sept.
2nd, 1888. Prest. Sarah Pope presiding. Sing-
ing. "Sweet is the work." Prayer by A. H.
Bartlett. Singing, "My God, the spring of all
my joys." Minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett said, "I feel it a duty
to arise when called upon to speak to my sis-
ters; I desire an interest in the prayers of all
present." Read a portion of a sermon preached
by Brigham Young eleven years ago, in Ogden,
at a Relief Society meeting, and printed in the
EXPONENT. It was a very appropriate piece
for the occasion, and all listened with intense
interest. Made a few remarks on the same.
Said how necessary it was for us to ask the
Lord to give us wisdom, that we may under-
stand the principles of the Gospel; mothers
should teach the first principles of the Gospel to
their children; the principles of the Gospel are
just the same to-day as they were in the rise
of the Church. Asked the blessing of the
Lord to rest upon all His Church in the name
of Jesus. Amen.
	The Reports from the different branches of
the Relief Society were read.
	Prest. Sarah Pope, "I am pleased to be with
my sisters here to-day, it does me good to see
everybody looking so comfortable and so well
clothed. Thirty years ago the people in Utah
did not have as much as they have to-day; if
we had a homemade dress on we were just as
happy and thankful as we are to-day, and per-
haps more so, because it was harder to get it;
to-day there is plenty of everything in our
midst, but do we appreciate these blessings? If
not we should. Thirty years ago a lady could
walk the streets of Salt Lake City in the night
if it was necessary, and there was no one on
the streets to say anything to her. Is that the
case to-day?" No, it is not. Our good govern-
ment thought they would send men here to
mend the morals of the people; but instead of
that they introduced evil practices to lead away
our children.	*	*	I ask the
Lord to bless us all, is my prayer in the name
of Jesus. "Amen."
	Meeting then adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing,
"I saw a mighty angel fly." Benediction by
Prest. Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon session: Prest. Sarah Pope presid-
ing. Singing, "Awake, ye Saints of God,
awake." Prayer by I. J. Clark. Singing,
"Afflicted Saints to Christ draw near." The
names of all the different presidents and their
counselors were read and sustained.

[column 3]

	Sister Caroline Stringam was called upon
to address the congregation for a short time.
Thought the brethren should feel interested in
our meetings, and try to help the sisters to get
to meeting, inasmuch as it is a duty the sisters
have to attend to; said parents should attend
Sunday School and Primary; also spoke of in-
structions she had heard Sister E. R. Snow
Smith give the sisters in times that were past.
	Sister Abagail Oaks made a few remarks on
passages that she had been reading in the Book
of Mormon, that were very interesting, and
spoke of what the Lord had in store for the
faithful.
	Coun. Elizabeth Mitchel gave the sisters
some good instruction concerning the wife's
care of the husband's earnings, and making
the best of everything.
	Prest. S. R. Bennion said, "I am pleased for
the opportunity I have of meeting with the
sisters to-day. We have had some good instruc-
tion from the sisters. I think the sisters of the
Relief Society have a great mission to perform,
and the young ladies should shun the company
of a young man who is in the habit of drink-
ing intoxicating drinks, or making light of the
principles of the Gospel; young ladies might
be able to do much good in this way; if a
young man thinks a young lady shuns him on
account of these things, he may try to be bet-
ter. May the Lord bless all the branches of
the Society in the Church, and enable them to
do right, is my prayer. Amen."
	Coun. R. S. Collett said he was pleased to
meet with the sisters, and to see the good spirit
that was made manifest by those that spoke,
and also the love that existed in families, and
the sorrow in parting, and the joy in meeting
again, and many more things that we have not
room for here; then asked the Lord to bless His
people.
	Prest. Sarah Pope made a few closing re-
marks, and reminded the sisters of our light
harvest in some parts of the valley, and that
we as wives and mothers should help our hus-
bands to take care of the wheat for bread, for
 it is better to go short of other things than
bread.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Sunday in
March, 1889. Singing. Benediction by
Philip Stringam.
		ADA LONGHURST, Secretary.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Hamilton Wilcox, in his "Women Suffrage
Notes in The Star, New York City, has some-
thing to say about "Women in the Presidential
Election," which we give below in his own
words.—ED.
	"The presidential result is now known—it
was not when last Sunday's 'Notes' were
written—and this fact is clear: the women de-
cided the struggle. The skill, the influence,
the money, the labor of two great parties about
balanced each other. By themselves, the men
were almost a tie vote. But the Republican
women's campaign, planned and carried
through by Judith Ellen Foster, turned the
scale, accepted and upheld as it was by Republi-
can committees generally. The eloquence, 
skillful management, dauntless courage and
steadfast devotion of Mrs. Foster, the eloquence
of Anna Dickinson, Marilla Ricker, and fifty
women speakers, the countless clubs of
Republican women, parading, working, elec-
tioneering for their party, brought to its aid a
power and an enthusaism strong enough to
sway the balance. The Democrats were
warned of their danger as soon as the Republi-
can women's campaign began, and were ad-
vised to call the Democratic women to their
aid; but they did not do so quick enough, nor
with the organization and system wherewith
the Republicans did it, and they did not,


therefore, enlist the numbers of women nor
rouse the enthusiasm that the Republican
managers did. They did not move in time to
counteract the force and effectiveness of the
Republican women's organizations. But the
mischief was done before their managers saw
what to do. Next time they must not be
caught napping, and they must take good care
mean time not to let their party be put in an
attitude of opposition to woman's freedom, for
women and their friends hold the balance of
power in every doubtful State.
	"Republicans, too, must not forget; now that
election is over, the debt they owe to their
feminine helpers. Wherever the State consti-
tutions do not expressly forbid, and the Re-
publicans control the Legislatures and Govern-
ors, laws should be at once passed relieving
their sisters from the burdens and wrongs of
disfranchisement. In every Territory where
the Republicans control the Legislature the
same should be done.
	"Republicans should remember that the
Woman Suffrage party are in a position to
punish them if they refuse to do justice to
woman. It was the persistent refusal of Re-
publican Legislatures to relieve women from
disfranchisement and the untruthful statements
of a Republican Attorney General against the
bill for that purpose which drove the suffrage
party's State Convention in 1884—made up
mostly of old Republicans—to reject a motion
to indorse the Republican ticket and vote to
be neutral. That Convention held that, thought
Blaine and Logan's personal friendship toward
woman's liberty was public and unquestioned,
the course of their party in the Legislature
had not entitled it to the support of suffragists.
Had the latter chosen, they could have reversed
the vote of New York and kept Cleveland out
of the White House; but the refusal of Re-
publican Legislatures to do justice to a million
and a half of citizens cost their party the
Presidency. It seems they learned enough by
this defeat to ask the women's aid in this can-
vass. Let us see now whether they have also
learned enough to treat their new allies justly.
	The woman suffrage party, though, are not
to be credited with the result of the election.
As both President Cleveland and General Har-
rison were friendly to woman's freedom, the
suffrage party as a body did not need to favor
one at the expense of the other. Some, as in-
dividuals, favored Cleveland, some favored
Harrison, and others favored one of the other
candidates, all of whom were friendly to suf-
frage. The result was determined by those of 
the suffrage women who followed Mrs. Foster's
lead, and by the mass of new political workers
whom these particular suffragists brought out.
	The women who exerted themselves for the
candidates of smaller parties have done little
good, if any. They have wasted their time,
their strength and their money—enough of
these to have gained splendid success if rightly
used—and have provoked much needless hos-
tility. Those who thought that they could
draw off votes enough from General Harrison
to defeat him by getting Republicans to vote
for a third candidate, have been terribly disap-
pointed. The outcome should teach them
wiser methods."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE ELECTORAL COLLEGES.

	The States having been all heard from re-
garding the Presidential contest, the next for-
mal procedure in the case is the assemblage of
the Electoral Colleges for the purpose of
choosing a President and Vice President of the
United States. This statement will cause a
feeling if not an expression of surprise with
many, who are led to suppose that the choice
was made Tuesday last. In one sense, they are
right; indirectly the election was completed
when the polls closed, but directly there wa

[Column 2]

no election of Chief Magistrate and his lieu-
tenant at all, only a choice of "electors."
This peculiar feature in the mechanism of the
government needs explanation to the class
spoken of, who, doubtless, have paid more at-
tention to any other prominent subject than to
politics.
	Each State of the Union is entitled to a
number of electors corresponding with its re-
presentation in Congress. No State has less
than three such delegates—two Senators and
one Representative. Each has the two Sena-
tors without respect to population, and also
one Representative no matter how limited the
number of inhabitants, but beyond this they
have additional Representatives only by ap-
pointment of Congress, which appointment is
always based upon the census previously taken.
For example, if Utah were admitted into the
Union today, she would be given two Senators
and but one Representative, no matter what
the number of her people; but if the census of
1890 showed that she had a population of 300-
000 say, or anywhere near that figure and the
basis of apportionment were fixed at 150,000 (it
is now about 140,000 we believe) for each re-
presentative, she would then be entitled to two,
and thereafter until the next census in 1900
she would have a delegation of four in Con-
gress and be entitled to that number of electors
at each Presidential election during the next
decade. All these in the different States are
chosen by the people on the same day, namely,
the Tuesday after the first Monday in Novem-
ber. The electors are not chosen by districts,
although each of them except the two at large
presumably represents a district, and in their
nomination reference is usually had to resi-
dence; the ballot of each and every voter in
the State contains or may contain at his option,
the names of all the candidates for electors to
which the State is entitled on the ticket he de-
sires to have succeed—thus, if he be a Demo-
crat, in New York he will choose a ticket hav-
ing not only the name of the elector presum-
ably representing his own district, but all the
others as well, and would thus vote for thirty-
six electors, the number which that State pos-
sesses. If the electors thus voted for have
more votes than any other party, the Demo-
cratic nominee for President and Vice Presi-
dent would be said to have carried the State,
and if enough States have gone the same way
to carry a majority of the whole number of
electors throughout the Union, the Democratic
candidates for these offices would be nomi-
nally elected. We say "nominally," because
technically, there would have been no election
of those officers. The electors so chosen meet
at the capitols of their respective States or
other place therein provided by local laws, on
a date fixed by national law, which may be any
week day after a reasonable length of time fol-
lowing the appointment of electors and before
the 4th of March following, the latter being
inauguration day. In the last election this was
the first Wednesday in December, but the date
has recently been advanced a month, so that
it now takes place in January.
	The electors when thus assembled are desig-
nated the electoral college, and when organized
they proceed formally to vote for a President
and Vice President of the United States. They
are not compelled to vote for any particular
person, so it will be seen that calling the voting
which takes place in November, the Presiden-
tial election is technically a misnomer, and
thereafter calling the candidates whose choice
is forshadowed President elect" and Vice-
President elect," is to apply misnomers. The
electors chosen on the Democratic ticket can
vote for the Republican candidates if they see
fit and vice versa, or both may be ignored and
men whose names have not even been mentioned
be legally voted for. But it is proper to say 
that no such instance of political treachery is
yet recorded in our history, the electors always

[Column 3]

voting in accordance with the preferences of
those who chose them. There was a departure
from this in the case of Horace Greeley in
1872, but there was nothing dishonorable in
the transaction, as he died before the college
met and many of his electors cast complimen-
tary ballots for their individual preferences.
	After the ballot for President and Vice Pre-
sident has been taken, the result is certified
to in triplicate; one of these certificates is for-
warded by special messenger to Washington,
who places it in the hands of the President of
the Senate, another is forwarded by mail to
that officer, and the third is deposited with the
judge of the district court for the district in
which the electors convened. On the second
Wednesday in February following, the two
houses of Congress meet in joint session, the
President of the Senate presiding; he then
opens the certificates and announces the result
in each case, concluding with an announcement
of the general result and a formal proclama-
tion by him that whoever may have been found
to have received the majority of all the votes
cast for President has been duly elected Presi-
dent and the same with regard to the second
position.
	All that there remains is for those who are
thus chosen to take the oath of office, which
generally takes place about noon on the fourth
of March following. The President and Vice-
President then enter upon the discharge of
their respective duties, those of the latter be-
ing merely nominal, and hardly that, unless
the Senate should be in extraordinary session at
the time, in which event he could, if he felt
disposed, preside over it, decide parliamen-
tary points, and have the casting vote when
there was a tie. This does not happen very
often, however.—Deseret News.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The marriage of Miss Rachel G. Foster and
Cyrus Miller Avery is disproof of the theory
that "platform women" are not attractive to
the opposite sex, for Mr. Avery fell in love
with Miss Foster at the Women's International
Council.
	The Twentieth Annual meeting of the
American Woman Suffrage Association was 
held in the Scottish Rite Cathedral, Cincinnati,
O , Nov. 20, 21, 22. The sessions were largely
attended, much interest was manifested, excel-
lent reports were made by the press and the
meeting was successful in every respect. Mrs.
Lucy Stone gave the annual report of the As-
sociation.
	The National Council of Women, of which
Miss Willard was made president at Washing-
ton, D. C., last spring, has for its object to
secure in every leading city and town of the
United States a "Woman's Council" made up
of the presidents of all societies of women,
having a headquarters of its own, with an
office secretary, entering unitedly upon such
lines of work as all the women can agree
upon.
	The Sixteenth Annual Congress of the Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Women was
held in the Church of Our Father, Detroit,
Mich, Nov, 14, 15, 16. Its coming had been
heralded by the Detroit Woman's Club in a
dainty souvenir, which told of the work of the
A. A. W., and of Michigan's Women's Clubs
and philanthropies. The platform on which
the representative women of the Woman's
Century assembled was most fittingly arranged
as a drawing-room, circled by a tier of chrysan-
themums, banked in profusion and topped by a
row of potted palms. The railing of the organ
loft and the background of the pulpit were
hung in silken folds of the tri-color of the
Detroit Woman's Club—white, blue and yellow.
Around the galleries were hung portraits of


men and women identified in sympathy, if not
by membership, with the mission of the Con-
gress. High up overhead was the shibboleth
of the association, worked in letters of ivy,
"Truth, Justice and Honor." Under this,
painted in three panels of white silk, were the
letters "A. A. W."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	The Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion will be held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Thursday,
Dec. 20th, 1888, commencing at 10 a.m., and
2 p.m.


OBITUARIES.

	On Monday, May 28, 1888, occurred one of the most
shocking fatalities that has ever taken place in Heber City,
Wasatch County. Mrs. Elizabeth Watson, wife of Thomas
S. Watson, was killed by a bull. The event was a great
shock to the community. Sister Elizabeth Watson was the
daughter of John and Janet Honeyman. She was born at
Anchtermuchty, Fife, Scotland, Dec. 2, 1835, and was
married to Thomas Watson at Kinross County. Scotland
on the 30th of March, 1863; in 1869 they emigrated to
America; leaving Glasgow on the 7th day of April of that
year, they stopped in Ohio about four months, and then
came on to Utah, arriving at Heber on the 24th day of
September, where they have resided ever since. Sister
Watson, was the mother of twelve children, eleven boys and
one girl, eight of whom have gone before her. Sister
Watson was a faithful member of the Relief Society, and
secretary of the Wheat Fund. She died in full faith of the
Gospel.
	Whereas, Providence has seen fit to call from our midst
our much esteemed sister and co-laborer in the cause of
truth to finish the labor so nobly begun on earth in a higher
sphere, we deeply sympathize with the bereaved husband
and four sons, and pray God to bless and comfort them in
the great loss they have sustained.
		MARGARET MUIR,
			President,
		ELLEN LEE,
		SARAH SMITH,
			Committee.

	Sister Ann Walmsley passed away from this life Nov. 16,
1888, at Preston, Idaho, having sustained injuries by falling
from a wagon, Aug. 23rd, 1886, since which time she has
been a great sufferer until a short time before her death
when she calmly fell asleep; and thus passed away with a
smile on her face. She was born in Lancashire, England,
Aug. 24, 1806, baptized July 30, 1837. She is said to be
the first woman baptized into the Church in England, Prest.
Heber C. Kimball officiating at the ceremony, In 1840
Sister Walmsley arrived in Nauvoo with her husband,
where she knew and associated with the Prophet and his
brother, Hyrum, and their families. Two years after she
with her husband, Bro. Thomas Walmsley, moved to a
place called, "Shock of Corn." twenty-five miles from 
Nauvoo, where he died and was buried in the woods.
Sister Walmsley then returned to Nauvoo in poor health,
with five sick children, having previously buried two. In
1849 she traveled to Salt Lake City, where she lived for
many years, afterwards moving to Bear Lake Valley, where
she has since resided. Sister Walmsley was ever ready to
bear her testimony to the truth of this work, and that
Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, having seen a great
many of his prophecies fulfilled. March 10, 1888 she had a
written request made out concerning her funeral, and
whom the speakers should be, wishing Bishop Wm. Hulme
to drive the team that bore her remains to their final rest-
ing place, he being second to none in her affections, having
lived neighbor to him for many years. All was done as she
wished. Sister Walmsley was the mother of ten children,
forty-six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren; four
of her children, thirty of her grandchildren, and six of her
great-grandchildren were in attendance at her funeral.
		E. C. PIGGOTT.
	Bloomington, Idaho, Nov. 25, 1888.


[Column 1]

A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

	Died, in the Fifteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, Utah, Nov
19, 1888, Rebecca Maria, widow of the late N. V
Jones, and daughter of Samuel and Hannah Burton, and

[Column 2]

sister of Bishop R. T. Burton. Deceased was born in
Mercer, Essex Co., Upper Canada, Feb. 16, 1826. She
was baptized into the Church in January, 1838, when her
father's family received the Gospel at that place. Shortly
after the family started for Far West, Mo., but on account
of the expulsion of the Saints from that State, they did not
complete the anticipated journey, but located at Walnut
Grove, Illinois, in 1839.
	In October, 1844, the family went to Nauvoo, and on the
14th of March, 1845, Miss R. M. Burton was married to
Nathaniel V. Jones by Heber C. Kimball. In the spring
of 1846 Bro. and Sister Jones left Nauvoo, arriving in
Council Bluffs July 1, and on the 16th of the same month
her husband enlisted in the Mormon Battalion; at that
time she had a babe four months old. Subsequently Sister
Jones removed to Atchison Co., Mo, remaining there
until her husband's return from California iu August, 1847.
In August, 1849, Bro. and Sister Jones arrived in this city,
journeying with ox teams from the Missouri River; at that
time they had two children. They settled in the Fifteenth
Ward, and have kept the home there ever since.
	Bro. Jones was called away from home on several mis-
sions, and his wife was left with a little family to struggle
with the difficulties incident to the settling in a new country.
She bore her trials during this period of her life with un-
common bravery and fortitude, manifesting those sterling
qualities of character that help one to endure without mur-
muring the shifting changes of fortune in times of adversity
or affliction.
	On Feburary 16th, 1863, the 37th anniversary of her
birth, her husband died, leaving her with a family of little
children, to whom she must henceforth be both father and
mother as far as possible, and Sister Jones has ever since
remained a widow (twenty-six years), and by her untiring
industry and perseverance has raised her family temporally
and trained them in the principles of the Gospel.
She was ever a tender and affectionate mother, entering
into the feelings of her children, their trials or misfortune
with the most intense sympathy. The sad death of her
son, Fred. R. Jones, who was killed in New Mexico, was a
severe nervous shock to her system, and the constant care,
attention and solicitude occasioned by the delicate health
of her daughter, Mrs. Clara J. Young, for sometime previ-
ous to her demise, told heavily upon her both in mind and
body.
	Sister Jones was always faithful to the truth, firm and
unflinching in her integrity to the cause she had espoused so
early in life, and has been an active and efficient worker in the
Relief Society of the ward in which she resided ever since
it was organized in 1855, and for some years past held the
position of First Counselor to the President, Sister Sarah
M. Kimball, who will deeply feel the loss of so wise and
consistent an adviser and helpmate. She was kind and
sympathetic, as well as benevolent in her nature, and de-
lighted in ministering to the wants of the needy, and in
comforting the afflicted and distressed. Her record is
bright with good deeds, and her example noble and pure;
she continued acting in her public duties until a short time
previous to her death, though she was quite feeble in health.
On Sunday, Nov. 11th, she taught her class of young ladies
in the Sabbath School as usual, but that evening was taken
violently ill, with acute pain in her head. She suffered
very greatly until death came to her relief.
	Of Sister Jones it may be truly said, "Blessed are the
dead who die in the Lord." She has gone to join her
companion, the husband of her youth. her children, parents
and friends, Joseph, the Prophet, and the host of Saints
who have passed away.
	There is no need of sorrow or mourning for her, she has
gone to her rest, having "fought the good fight and kept
the faith." May her noble and righteous example be fol-
lowed by her children, that they may attain to the same 
exaltation and inheritance, and meet their mother again,
where there is no more sorrow, pain or parting forever-
more.
	The funeral of Sister Jones was held in the Fifteenth
Ward meeting house, on Thursday, the 21st of November,
and was largely attended. The stand was beautifully
draped in white, and flowing trailing vines aristically
hung among the soft flowing drapery. There were also
many gifts of flowers from loving friends.
	The speakers were, first, Bishop Samuel Woolley, of the
9th Ward, who had accompanied Elder N. V. Jones, hus-
band of the deceased, on his mission many years ago to the
East Indies. The next speaker was Elder Elias Morris,
who had known Sister Jones for many years. Bishop O.
F. Whitney followed Bro. Morris, and then Prest. Angus
M. Cannon and Bishop Pollard.
	All the speakers testified to her faith in the Gospel, her
integrity to the same, her many excellent and lovable

[Column 3]

qualities, her patience and heroism under the most trying
circumstances. Sister Jones selected the hymns she would
like sung at her funeral; one of them was the very appropri-
ate funeral song, "Come, come unto me, all ye Saints who
have died," and another, "There is sweet rest in heaven."
The singing was by the ward choir, and was rendered in
the most tender and touching style, the voices blending in
such melody that it was like heavenly music.
		E. E. W.
	
	Rebecca M. Jones, Counselor in the Fifteenth Ward
branch of the Relief Society, died Nov. 19, and was buried
with Relief Society honors, on Wednesday, 21st inst., from
the Fifteenth Ward Assembly Hall.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Whereas, in the dispensation of Divine Providence, our
beloved sister and counselor and co-laborer, has departed
this life, and ceased her earthly labors,
	Resolved, That we lovingly cherish the memory of her
peaceful influence, and her untiring efforts to promote and
sustain Relief Society interests.
	We commend her impressive example in imploring God's
blessing on the afflicted everywhere, and her pleadings in
behalf of the wayward.
	We bless the memory of her dear, diligent hands which
reached out in blessings for the needy, in administrations
for the sick, carried consolation to the bedside of the dying
and assisted in the last sad rites for the dead.
	That while we endeavor to bow submissively to this be-
reavement, we extend deep sympathy to the family and
more immediate friends.
	We would add that a life so rich in experience and so
beneficient in its labors for the good of humanity must reap
the reward of eternally reciprocated love, and be crowned
with unfading glory.
	That we have these Resolutions spread on our minutes
also preserved in our historical record books and published
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		SARAH M. KIMBALL,
	In behalf of the 15th Ward branch of Relief Society.


R. K. THOMAS 
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.	
	112,	114,	116,	118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.

Address, DAVID JAMES Box 300, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

