VOL. 17.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1888.			NO. 5


VOLNEY'S PICTURE.

Beside my knee my darling stood,
Just five years old, and sweet and good,
Watching my face the while I told
Some story bright from pages old,
Such as we learned in childhood's days,
When suddenly his thoughtful gaze
Changed into one of sweet surprise—
"Ma, there's a picture in your eyes!"

"Whose picture is it, do you know?"
He caught my hands and whispered low,
"It's mine!" And climbing to my knee—
"It's so you'll always 'member me;"
And rested 'gainst my cheek awhile
His own, with its sweet rosy smile.

The morning dawned, and he awoke,
His happy voice the silence broke,
And fancy's day dreams took to flight,
And yet I could but laugh outright,
For who could frown against the kiss
Of tyrant loving, sweet as this?
"Dear little fellow," sister said,
As tenderly she smoothed his head,
"In all this time the little pet
Aint had his picture taken yet."

Swiftly the dear one turned around,
As though a great surprise were found,
His cheeks all flushed with earnest glow,
"Yes, but my picture's taken, though!"
And answering looks of question, doubt,
With sweet lips pressed 'gainst laughing out,
Paused, then with mirth so sly and wise,
"My pitser's taken in ma's eyes!"

Oh, happy heart, that found a bliss
In such a little thing as this!
Yet though his joy so simple seems,
I find its counterpart in themes
By sacred bards in grander line,
That though all Christian spirits twine,
Ringing where every choir stands—
"My name is written in Thy hands."

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, July 30, 1888.


CORRESPONDENCE.

			NEW MEXICO, June 26, 1888.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTER:—I have been trying for
weeks to find a few spare moments in which I
might pen a few lines once more, for it is really
cheering to read the many beautiful articles in
the EXPONENT, and causes me to feel hopeful
enough to try again, though so many obstacles
are in the way.
	June, with its lovely roses, is nearly gone,
and I have so often thought of you, and wished
I might send you a bouquet of the fine ones
growing in our garden; but there is a little one
laying in her cradle beside me, "Sweeter than
all the roses," that I wish you could see.  I do
not mention my baby as if she were the only
one, but because I must, for my heart is so
filled with thanks to God for this precious gift
sent to gladden our lonely home, that I cannot
look at her innocent face and keep silent.
	The "glorious Fourth" will soon be here, and
we anticipate having a nice quiet time; have
invited the few people that live in the valley.
The weather is very warm indeed, making one
feel much inclined to be idle.
	It is ten days since I began my letter, and I
thought to finish it at once, but writing is one

[Column 2]
of the tasks which I must compel myself to
perform.  Oh, it would be so nice to be able to
run in and chat awhile with my dear friends,
for I really get hungry to do so; and now I am
calling them up one by one in my mind's eye.
How encouraging it is to look at their sweet,
patient faces, many bearing such heavy bur-
dens.  Oh, I fancy I see the angels lift them
now and then, to rest the weary shoulders, and
the still more weary heart and brain.
	Oh, dear sisters, do you think our kind, lov-
ing Father is unmindful of what you are suf-
fering to maintain those pure principles He
has revealed for our salvation?  Let us live
the present days of trial in the hope of the
great pay, that the future will surely bring to
those who remain pure and true.  And, oh,
let us love and encourage one another, putting
jealousy and envy under our feet.  Have we
not enough to bear of realities without suffer-
ing over imaginary causes.  Do we not expect
to associate together in the great hereafter? and
can we look for perfect love and union there,
unless we break down some of the barriers to
that union and love here?  We will, most as-
suredly, begin at the very point we leave off.
We cannot overcome all our weaknesses at
once, but we can and must be charitable, and
stand by each other, in spite of these petty
frailties, if we wish a clear conscience and the
divine approval of heaven.
	If we have not thought of these things it is
certainly time we were doing so.  It is a try-
ing time to the Saints, and yet we can truly
say there never was a time when we had more
cause to rejoice and give thanks to our God,
for are not all the legions below turned loose
to try and destroy us, and does not the same
power that permits of our temptation help us
to understand it? and by resisting the tempter
and being humble and prayerful, we will
prove our worthiness to dwell within the
realms of light, beyond the reach of sin for-
ever and ever.
				MARY S. BURNHAM.


REMINISCENCES.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I have only just met with an opportunity to
peruse the EXPONENT for April 15th, 1888.
It contains an article entitled, "The Old
Home," which has made me feel as though my
very heartstrings would break.  It has brought
the early scenes of my childhood so vividly to
my mind, and "The Old Home" so truly de-
scribes my own feelings, that I at once re-
solved to write a little about myself.  You may
not think it worthy of a place in the EXPONENT,
but that I leave to your better judgment.  I
will venture to send it, and would be pleased to 
see it in that paper. 
	My childhood was a very happy time.  I 
was admitted as a scholar in the Sunday School
at the age of five years, where I was as per-
fectly happy as a child could be, for I loved
my teacher as my own soul, and have gone to
school many times without my breakfast lest I
should not be there before her, ready to greet
her as soon as she came.  I do not remember
that during these years of childhood I had a 
single trouble.  My father had a good farm,
therefore we were surrounded with the com-
forts of life.  We had abundance of fruit and 
vegetables in their season.  A splendid lawn
was spread out in front of the house with here

[column 2]
and there a clump of flowers, and, my father
being a florist, they were some of the choicest;
a row of majestic looking elm trees stood along
the outside of the fence, which gave our place
the name of "The Five Elms."  On one side of
our house and garden was a large green sward,
where boys and girls, and sometimes father
and mother, would join in a merry game of
play.  On the other side was our farm build-
ings, and at the back was our kitchen garden.
In the front of all, and next to the elm trees,
were two or three acres of land, at that time
uncultivated, but it grew wild raspberries and
furze, which was always in bloom, and very
pretty, and what was better still, it supplied us
with as many fine rabbits as we needed.
	Harvest time had come, and the precious
grain was being gathered in.  We had already
built two or three stacks and filled our barn to
overflowing, still there was much to be done,
when our dear mother was seized with sickness,
and was soon delirious with brain fever.  We
were but children and easily alarmed, and were
watching her with great anxiety, for we had no
one with us, father being in the harvest field
half a mile away.  "Hark!" cried my sister;
"listen!"  I did listen, and the next moment
heard for myself "Fire, fire!"  In our excite-
ment we ran to the window.  Meanwhile, our
mother seemed to comprehend that something
was the matter, and in her fright leaped out of
bed and down the stairs.  Her fright giving
her strength, she ran across the lawn, fell down
under one of the elms and fainted.  She was
carried to the nearest neighbor's house, a few
rods away, which she never left again until she
was carried to her grave.
	But the fire, how shall I describe that?  It
had happened through one of the farm hands
taking advantage of our father's absence to
smoke a pipe in the barn, dropped a spark and
it was soon in a blaze.  We were two miles 
away from the fire brigade, and the same dis-
tance from water, living upon a high gravel
hill, where everything is as dry as dust, and
before father could reach home all the build-
ings were wrapped in flames, and we knew it
could not escape, for it stood within two yards
of the barn.
	In half an hour we had the fire brigade and
3,000 people upon the grounds, hundreds of 
them willing to assist, but very little could be
done, for our largest wheat stack, valued at
$1,000, was burning fiercely away, and seemed
to be laughing us to scorn.  "Betsy," said I to
my sister, "who can those three men be on the
top of that burning stack?  Look how the
flames are wrapping around their legs, they
will surely be burned to death."  The next
moment we saw the firemen directing the
water over the men, that they might be kept
wet and cool while they threw the sheaves of
wheat down for others to drag away on to the 
common.  Brave fellows!  they acted nobly,
but they were badly scorched and could not
save the stack.
	But now our patience is about to be painfully
tried.  Some men are rushing into the house 
and beginning to throw the furniture pell mell
on the lawn.  Now our troubles began in
earnest; how we cried.  What would mother
say to see all those good things spoiled?  "Oh,
do be careful of that mahogany clock, father
bought it only a few weeks ago, and he gave a
lot of money for it."  this was one of those
clocks about six feet high, ornamented on the
top with gilt knobs; how handsome it looked,


[Column 1]

especially to our young eyes. "Oh, do be
careful!" "Get out of my way, and don't
hinder me; I have no time to be careful," and
one man took hold of one end and another
took hold of the other end, and standing on the
door stone, threw it on the lawn as far as their
strength would let them; and so with every-
thing else in the house.
	Oh, that dreadful crash! What can it be?
Turning in a moment to where the sound came
from, we were struck with terror, for we beheld
the roofs of all the buildings—cart-house,
stables, barn and sheds—falling in together,
and the sight was one never to be forgotten.
The blood red flames and black smoke shooting
up to the sky, were awfully grand, and had it
not been so terrible, would have been truly
magnificient.
	"Look at those pretty white chickens; what
can possess them to fly into the flames to be
roasted to death?" We cannot save them, but
we congratulate the poor horses, who are in the
harvest field, and therefore safe.
	Well, the fire burned on. It was plainly to
be seen that it would not yield until everything
was consumed. One stack after another bowed
to the devouring element, until all our hay, as
well as our grain, was gone, for it burned so
rapidly that nothing could be removed until it
was spoiled. It burned all night; and, O, the
desolate picture that met my eyes when day-
light appeared next morning, I could not de-
scribe, though I can see it all so perfectly. Hun-
dreds of men were still there, and with their
blackened hands and faces, and drenched
clothes, looked objects of pity. The fire con-
tinued to burn for twelve days, smouldering
and blazing alternately, for the grain being
new, it took longer to consume.
	But, to return to my mother. She never re-
covered from the shock, but lingered on for
seven years, a confirmed invalid. We all went
to live in the same house with her, and, being
the eldest daughter, it was my melancholy duty,
with the assistance of my sister, to nurse her.
Her decline was very gradual, but at last the
time came when we had to call the family
around her bed, feeling that her time had come.
She was a very reserved woman, and we did
not expect to hear much from her lips, but the
last words came—"Lord, Jesus, receive my
spirit."—two or three gasps and she was gone.
We did not realize it until my father, in a 
solemn and subdued tone, said, "The Lord
gave, and the Lord hath taken away, blessed
be the name of the Lord." Then our tears be-
gan to flow indeed. We all imprinted a kiss
on her already cold forehead and left her.
	The day of the funeral came, and we had to
lay away one of the sweetest and kindest of
mothers.
	With bleeding hearts we entered the meeting
house, and it was with difficulty we could fix
our minds upon the funeral service. I was at
length aroused by the minister reading the
words of Abraham, when his wife Sarah died—
"Give me the possession of a burying place,
that I may bury my dead out of my sight."
At the sound of these words the tears gushed
forth afresh, but I often think now, that if we 
had known the Gospel as revealed by the
Prophet Joseph, how it would have mitigated
our sorrow; but, thanks to our Father in Hea-
ven, the Gospel has been revealed, the work
for my father and mother has been performed
in the Temple, and they have been reunited
for eternity, and I have a hope that when I get
behind the veil I shall again enjoy their so-
ciety.
	When my mother died, our family was scat-
tered far and wide; some of them I never saw
again; they died one by one, until nearly are
gone.
	More than thirty years after I lost my mother,
I was seized with an intense longing to see my
native place again, and to visit the grave of
my mother and those of my brothers who had

[Column 2]

been laid by her side. I had one brother left
near my home, whom I visited, and from his
window I could see the room where my mother
died. I walked round the old garden, saw the
flowers she planted, at least some that had been
raised from the same roots; I went into the
room where she died, and stood upon the same
spot where her remains had been laid while
awaiting burial. I sat down and went, and
cried, "Oh, my mother! my mother!" But,
painful as this was, it was much more so to
visit the place where the old farm once stood.
Oh, the agony of grief I felt! The old place
had been much altered, but there were many
things to remind me of former times. Another
farm had been built upon the same spot, which,
of course, was nearly all strange to me, but
not quite all, for the fire had spared a small
back room, which used to be mine, also a large
brick oven, where we used to bake our bread
for the family; this was all that remained of
the house. I walked into the garden, but I
cannot begin to describe what I felt, but enough
to make me feel that I would like to lie down
beside my mother under the large lilac tree—
a spot our minister had given us in his garden
for a burying place. 
	I saw the grand old elms still there, and
much of the handiwork of my father's hands
in years gone by. I saw my mother's sweetest
of all honeysuckles growing just the same as it
was thirty years before from the porch and
partly over the roof of the house. The old
wood had been cut away year by year, and the
new shoots allowed to grow, so that it looked
just the same. What I felt over all this, none
can better realize than your correspondent of
"The Old Home." While I cannot look back 
upon any act of wilful disobedience, or any
wish to give offense to my beloved parents, yet
I wished, O, how I wished that I had striven
more than I did to please them. The very
thought that I might have served them better
was almost more than I could bear, and many
times since then I have thought that if I was
treated by my relatives and friends, so that
they could look upon my dead face without a
pang of self-regret, it is all I wish for. It is
very pleasant to hear the good deeds of our
fellow Saints spoken of after they are gone, or
to see flowers placed around their coffin or their
graves—all this is very beautiful, but does not
help the dear ones who have left us. The kind,
sympathetic word, the little act of kindness, or
even a pleasant look, while living, is worth
moro than all the eulogy that can be showered
upon us when gone. Those whose hearts have
been crushed over and over again, become very
sensitive, and need sympathy as much as they
need their daily food. If any doubt this, let
them wait until they have passed through seas
of suffering and sorrow, and are ready to say
with the Psalmist, "All thy waves and thy bil-
lows have gone over me;" let them lay in the
silent tomb father and mother, sisters and
brothers; in addition to this, let them be called
to give back to their Heavenly Father one
sweet babe after another, until they are left
childless and a widow. All this I have passed
through, and much more. My first born son
was spared to me, but he does not know his
mother, for is she not a Mormon? Yes, thank
God! I am a Mormon, and even my love
for my first-born will not induce me to draw
back. I am an imperfect one, it is true, and I
know it, but it is my daily study to keep firm
hold of the "rod of iron," which leads to the
tree of life. Since my home was destroyed by
fire; I have felt like a stranger in a strange
land, for the feeling of "home" has never en-
tered into my breast from that hour, but I am
looking forward to the time when I shall be at
rest in the everlasting home of the Saints. I
thank my Father for opening the way for me
to come to Zion, and for opening hearts to re-
ceive me.
	May God bless kind friends a hundred fold.

[Column 3]

May He bless all those who are engaged in any
way in helping to build up His kingdom.
		MARY Y. CORBY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Report of a Primary Conference, held at
Petersborough on the 12th inst, in which the
Primaries of Wellsville and Mendon were re-
presented, and took an active part.
	Meeting convened at 2 p.m., with an over-
flowing house, Stake Prest. Jane E. Molen pre-
siding. After the usual opening exercises, the
programme was taken up with great vigor by
the children, all seeming to realize that they
were engaged in a good work, a work that was
fitting and qualifying them for the future
events that await them. The Spirit of God
prevailed in our midst, thus causing a genial
and pleasant feeling to exist.
	Appropriate dialogues, recitations,songs, etc.,
were beautifully rendered by the children of
the different Associations, plainly showing that
a lively interest is being taken by the presi-
dents for the progression of the work and de-
velopment of the young and tender minds of
the little ones, those germs of goodness and
truth, placed under our care to be taught in
the ways of God.
	At intervals through the exercises, the Asso-
ciations were reported as being in a prosperons
condition, and valuable instructions given by
brethren and sisters who were present, each
expressing their pleasure at seeing so many as-
sembled together, with countenances beaming
with joy and gladness, and hearts and spirits
blended with ties of love and affection. Had
a firm desire to see the little ones grow up to
be men and women of wisdom, of intelligence,
of sobriety, of everything that is calculated to
ennoble, to elevate, to refine, and make them
virtuous, pure and God like.
	Prest. J. E. Molen, in her closing remarks,
counseled the children to honor, obey and re-
spect their parents, show reverence to the
aged, and be kind to all with whom they came
in contact; by so ordering their lives they will
grow up to be wise and useful, helping in the
rolling forth of the purposes of God. The
subject of prayer was also impressed upon their
minds. By being fervent in prayer, we will
be in constant communion with the Holy
Spirit, and thereby elicit aid and assistance in
time of need.
	The children then engaged in singing, "We
are the children of the Saints," and Bro. John
Kidman pronounced the benediction.
	Yours respectfully,
		MAGGIE BROWN.
Wellsville, Utah, July 14, 1888.


Miss Frances E. Willard will be fifty years
old next year, and the National W. C. T. U.
have decided to celebrate the event. At the
convention in Nashville last year, it was re-
solved that she be invited to write her autobio-
graphy, with the history of the Temperance
Union during its sixteen eventful years. Miss
Willard accepted the invitation, and is now
busily engaged upon the book.—Ex.
	The German novelist, George Ebers, lately
received a letter from a ladies' reading club in
St. Louis, Mo., expressing their admiration of
his poem "The Elves" Ebers, in his reply,
expresses warm appreciation of the tribute
paid him, adding; "The poet's offering to his
country is his work; his recompense is his
readers' interest and pleasure. In addressing
your beautiful letter to me, you have given me
more than I deserve, and, as you have been so
kind to me, I take the liberty of drawing
closer to you by inclosing my photograph."—
Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOR BELLE.

	"Little Hazel is gone," so the word
Came to me in my far-away
Wandering home, "and our
Friends are sore stricken,
May God heal and bless," and
I murmur Amen to the prayer.
"Our friends," Frank and Belle, you
Have earned well the name, and
I would I could whisper sweet
Peace to your souls, in your sad
Time of sorrow and pain—
He gave and hath taken your
Treasure again.
	Christ is the Great Healer, pass
Under the Rod, it is lifted in
Love, and the Balm He will
Give unto you.
	As I hold Mary's letter, time's
Pages fold back, and I stand
'Neath the trees where I first met
With Frank. Our Jennie was
With us, rememberest thou? and
That first pleasant evening, in
The cot in the wild wood?
Now she, too, has left us in sorrow
To bow, and long for her presence again.
Life's strange, fitful fever ne'er
Reaches that Shore where our
Loved ones have gone—there
Is comfort in this
	Though the shadows for us
Darker fall, it is but for a day,
God will keep them, and give them
Again to our arms—where the
Meeting will take all the sting
From the parting.
	God is trying and testing as gold
In the fire; oh, shrink not, and
Donbt not His love! Would we
Share in His glory, we must drink
The cup that opens that glory to us.
He knows your integrity, friends to
The truth, hold steadfast and
Firm to the end; and, Belle,
Every pang in your great Sacrifice
He hath known, and your Cross
Will entwine with garlands
Unfading, and weave for your
Brow the Crown of the Pure in heart.
And now, my dear friends, let
Joy fill your hearts, for you
Are of the best loved of heaven;
You have been true to the
Motherless ones, and Sarah
Will care for your orphans in heaven—
Little Frank, little Hazel—your
Babies above, you will meet
In that bright land of glory and love.
	In friendship yours,
		S.E.R.
Sarah E. Russell.


[Column 1]

APPRECIATION OF MRS. HOWE.

DEAR EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It gave me much pleasure to read your notice
and sketch of our distinguished visitor, Mrs.
Julia, Ward Howe. Hundreds of intelligent
Mormon ladies would have appreciated the
privilege of hearing and seeing her, if a lecture
in the Theatre had been given. I doubt if
anywhere in the civilized world, woman is more
willing to accord to woman an appreciative
and just homage. Years ago, Florence Percy
(Elizabeth Akers Allen) wrote to me, "Praise
from woman seems so strange to me; it is so
unusual in my experience."
	When first I heard the "Battle Hymn of the
Republic," it was in California. Four of my
mother's brothers had volunteered, and two
had fallen in the service. My mother was an
Abolutionist, my father a Southerner in his

[Column 2]

proclivities, and sympathized with the confeder-
ates, and many of the Officers—Stonewall
Jackson and Robert E. Lee, among them—were
old acquaintances of his. I often heard both.
sides of the question in glowing language. In-
tense feeling prevailed all abound us; many of 
our friends volunteered, among them men of
wealth and prominence. Regulars and volun-
teers were encamped in our vicinity awaiting
marching orders, and in the interval father
invited a number of the officers to visit us,
which they did, during the winter and spring
of 1861.
	I often yet recall the songs then so popular
—"Lorena," and "When This Cruel War is
Over," among them. I have these now, in 
manuscript faded, but not torn, and the hand
that traced them was hidden long ago, and a 
Fort named for him marks his resting place. 
Blended with that lofty patriotism was the
spirit of songs, that made officer and subordin-
ate kindred in sympathy. Often while I
listened, there seemed to me as much of sad-
ness as of sweetness in words and music, a
romantic tinge of melancholy around the
heroic men who had freely offered their lives to
their country.
	Of the many we had known, a few returned
when the war was over, to tell us the stories of
the others.
	One night, before they were to march in the
morning, a number called to pay us a parting
visit. Three of the gentlemen were, a Major,
a Lieutenant, an Adjutant of the Regulars;
also a Captain and two Lieutenants of the
Volunteers.
	The "Battle-Hymn of the Republic" had
just come out. I was sick and in my own
room, and did not see the company, but on go-
ing, they paused under the great trees that sur-
rounded the house, and sang in the darkness,
all together, as farewell and serenade, the
"Battle-Hymn of the Republic." The spirit
of the great national struggle, felt so intensely
everywhere, the darkness of the night and the
parting from old friends, going to the field of
death, the indescribable pathos and sacredness
of that farewell, so full of hope, trust and
strength, as breathed in those words, filled my
mind with emotions and admiration beyond
expression. And often since, when I have
come across that poem in my scrap book, or its
title in some paper, book or magazine, I have
closed my eyes for a moment or two to live
over again that hour in my girlhood, and have
felt to thank heaven for the many jeweled
hours of that life. I have always appreciated
as a heavenly gift,any and all incidents of life
that were beautiful and worthy of cherished
remembrance. And are not beautiful memories
worth more than gold or silver?
	But not alone the romance of chivalry in
the time of our Nation's danger and its grand
expression in that Hymn, made the poet's lines
of deep interest to me; I learned to read it
anew, without the thought of waving flag and
martial music, without the proud thought of
splendid uniforms and dashing cavalry, even
without remembrance of that dark night and
the soulful voices under the great shadowy
branches; I have dreamed those lines over be-
side the broad hearths within low roofed log
cabins, repeated them in my heart within a
wagon's cover, and studied their new meaning
in my own home with my babe asleep on my
arm. Once it was to me a War hymn, now it is
a hymn of history and prophecy. From be-
ginning to end it holds a spiritual significance
to our people, that the author never intended,
or knew of in that application.
	Who, better than the Latter-day Saint, un-
derstands the truth and beauty of that first
verse? It is Scripture.

	"Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the
		Lord;

[Column 3]

	He is trampling out the vintage where the grapes of wrath
		are stored;
	He has loosed the fateful lightnings of His terrible swift
		sword
			His truth is marching on."

God was 

	"In the watch fires of an hundred circling camps," 

when the plundered and driven Saints gathered
around them; they

	"Builded Him an altar in the evening's dews and damps,"

when nightly their prayers ascended to Him,
and what was

	"His righteous sentence by the dim and flaring lamps."

yes,

	"His day is marching on."

	We know that,

	"He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call
		retreat, 
	He is sifting out the hearts of men before His judgment
		seat—"

He is gathering to Himself those who will re-
ceive His Gospel, and the rest are as the chaff 
beneath the seive;

	"O, be swiift my soul to meet Him, be jubilant my feet!
		Our God is marching on."

	Who realizes this more than the Latter-day 
Saints?

	"With a glory in His bosom that transfigures you and me."

	Has not the Gospel made us different from
what we were? Our thoughts, plans, aspira-
tions and works are lifting us forever into a
higher sphere of understanding. Are we not
transfigured from our former selves? Can any-
one understand us,who has not received of that
spirit from His bosom?

	"As He died to make men holy, let us die to make men
		free,
			While God is marching on."

	When Joseph and Hyrum returned and
gave themselves up, that their people might be
free from the savage fury of their enemies, they
fulfilled the spirit of those words. And "God
is marching on." Not words of poetry and
grandeur alone, but words of truth and power.
But among the millions who admire that Hymn,
how few read it by this light.
	Yes, as a Mormon woman I can feel its ap-
propriateness to my faith and people, and look
forward, as the author did, to the deliverance
of the Republic, great and glorious among
nations. More than that—for the kingdom of
God.
	I would have loved to have met the woman
who wrote that poem, but could not; however,
I wrote to Mrs. Julia Ward Howe a little of
what I have written here (during her stay in
Salt Lake City), and the lady kindly answered
me.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON. 
South Bountiful, July 22, 1888.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	“The announcement that Louisa M. Alcott’s
home at Concord, Mass, is to be sold, leads to
the suggestion that it be bought by subscrip-
tion and converted into a home for poor child
ren, as a memorial to the author so well be 
loved by young readers.”		
	At the Chautauqua Assembly at Framing-
ham, Mass.. Prof. Townsend a few days ago,
warmly advocated woman suffrage, and spoke
in high terms of the valuable service rendered,
by the women of the Boston School Board. His
words were received with enthusiastic applause
and a general waving of handkerchiefs by the
assembiy.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B, WELLS, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City. Utah.

	Entered at the East Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

Salt Lake City, 	 August 1, 1888.


[column 1]
		THE TWENTY-FOURTH.
	The commemoration of the anniversary of the
entrance of the Pioneers into this valley was cele-
brated last month with appropriate services in the
large Tabernacle, an immense concourse of peo-
ple being in attendance.  It was forty-one years
since the company of Pioneers arrived where Salt 
Lake City now stands.  The grand organ was
handsomely draped with the stars and stripes, and
a steel engraving of President Brigham Young
hung in the centre among the national colors.
Underneath it a banner bore the one word,
"Unity." Below this another banner, with the
words, "Utah's Association."  On the south side
of the organ were the words, "Pioneers '47;" on 
the north side, "Welcome."  The three stands
were draped with national flags, and the platform
in front of the stands, used on such occasions,
was tastefully ornamented with flowers and plants
in bloom.  On one side was the head and horns of
a buffalo, with its long, shaggy hair, and on the
other the very old flag of stars and stripes, that
was flung out to the mountain breeze from Ensign
Peak on their first visit to the mountains, two days
after their arrival.
	The committee of arrangements, officers of the
Sunday School and six of the Pioneers were upon
the platform.  The Pioneers were, Mrs. Clara
Decker Young, widow of the late Brigham Young,
Patriarch Lorenzo D. Young, his brother, Bishop
Jacob Weiler, Bishop Millen Atwood and Charles
D. Branham.  On the stand were Apostles John
Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor,
Patriarch John Smith, Prest. Seymour B. Young,
M. D., Prest. Angus M. Cannon, Members of the 
High Council, Sunday School officers and others.
Ass't Gen. Supt. of Deseret S. S. Union presided.
The 6th Ward silver band played a selection, and 
the S. S. children, Elder Thos. McIntyre leading,
sung, "Our Mountain Home so Dear."  Prayer
by Elder George Goddard.  A Xylophone solo, by
Adelbert Beesley, was followed by an address
from President Wilford Woodruff, read by Elder
B. F. Cummings, Jr.
To the Pioneers and Citizens, and to the Officers
	and Members of the Sabbath Schools:
	MY DEAR FRIENDS:—Forty-one years ago
this day I passed through Emigration Canon with
President Brigham Young.  He was taken sick on
East Cañon Creek, and I made a bed for him in
my carriage. When we came upon the bench I
turned the side of the vehicle to the west, so that
he could obtain a fair view of the valley.  Presi-
dent Young arose from his bed and took a survey
of the country before him for several minutes. He
then said to me, "Drive on down into the valley,
this is our abiding place.  I have seen it before in
vision.  In this valley will be built the City of the
Saints and the Temple of our God."  I drove
[column 2]
down to the encampment already formed by a por-
tion of our company, who had cut a road through
the quaking asp groves of timber which were in
the bed of the canon and come in ahead of us.
	We arrived in the encampment at half-past
eleven of the 24th of July, 1847  The brethren 
had already turned out City Creek and irrigated
the dry and barren soil, being the first irrigation 
ever performed by any one in these mountains in
this age.  They had also commenced to plough
some ground, and that noble pioneer, William
Carter, whose circumstances prevent him from
meeting with the pioneers to-day, broke the first
ground and laid the first furrow.  The plowshare
that performed the work is on the stand to-day.
On my arrival in camp, before I ate my dinner, I
planted two bushels of potatoes in the ground
broke up.  President Young commenced to re-
cover from his sickness the hour he entered the
valley.  On a day or two following our arrival, a
remarkable incident occurred.
	While President Young was walking with
several of the Apostles on the higher ground
northwest of our encampment, he suddenly 
stepped out, stuck his cane into the barren ground
and sagebrush, and exclaimed, "Right here will
stand the Temple of our God."  We had a peg
driven down, and it was nearly in the middle of 
the Temple as it stands to-day, which Temple was
bailt without any regard to the spot designated by
President Young at that time.
	On the 26th, we went to the top of a high point 
on the north of the city, which President Young
named "Ensign Peak."  We also visited the Hot
and Warm Springs.  On the 27th we drove to the
West Mountains and visited the Salt Lake, Presi-
dent Young being the first to dip his hand into the
briny water.  We walked dryshod to the Black
Rock and took a bath in the Lake.  Afterwards
preparations were made for laying out the city,
and I, with other brethren, assisted President 
Young in laying out the ground and streets with
chain and compass.  We laid out a block of ten
acres upon which to build a Temple, and city lots
of one acre and a quarter, and streets eight rods
wide, all of which has been published by his-
torians.
	President Young left Winter Quarters on the 
seventh day of April, accompanied by seven other
Apostles and other men, all told 143 men and 3
women.  The Apostles were, Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball, W.  Woodruff, George A.
Smith, Willard Richards, Orson Pratt, Amasa
Lyman and Ezra T.  Benson.  John Taylor and
Parley P. Pratt arrived soon after, leading com-
panies of families.  Orson Hyde remained in
Kanesville.  We traveled the first 500 miles with-
out any grass.  With the exception of a little
grain we fed our animals, they lived entirely on
the bark of cottonwood limbs and saplings,
which they gnawed from the trees, we would lay
before them for their night's meal.  This company
of 145 men traveləd 1030 miles, making their roads
and building their bridges.  In one instance we
had to form a guard of a wedge shape for three
days and nights to keep our company from being
trampled to death by an enormous herd of buffalo,
that had gathered from the mountains and were
migrating in a solid body to the plains below.
The herd was judged to be sixty miles in length,
and numbered not less than one million.   They
were traveling east and we were traveling west.
We were three days passing through the herd, and 
we all breathed freer when we were clear of them.
No other class of men will ever witness the same
scene again upon the face of the earth.  Brother
Wm. C. A. Smoot, sen., got his horses loose and
mixed with the herd, and it was with great difficulty
we obtained them again.
	Notwithstanding our first care was to secure an
abiding place, a home for the people, we did not
lose sight of other important matters. President
Young contemplated at that early day the building
[column 3]
of a railroad across the continent, and we marked 
out the route which we thought the national road
would take to unite the Atlantic and Pacific
oceans.
	Brothers Orson Pratt and Erastus Snow entered
the valley two or three days before the body of
pioneers, but where are those men to-day, and
where is President Brigham Young and the
Apostles who accompanied him? All are in the
spirit world mingling with the martyred Prophets,
where they can plead for their brethren.   Not
one of them living to-day, except myself, and but
few of the pioneers remain.  We have buried a
whole quorum of Twelve Apostles since we en-
tered these valleys of the mountains.  The rem-
nant of Zion's Camp, Mormon Battalion and the
Pioneers number but very few to-day.  Those of
us who remain will soon pass away, but our pos-
terity live and are numbered in the Primaries, the
Sabbath Schools and the Mutual Improvement
Associations, and are this day assembled in this
great Tabernacle to celebrate the arrival of the
Pioneers into this great American Desert, which 
today, through the blessing of God and the labor
of the Pioneers, is blossoming as the rose.
	This company of pioneers spent about a month
in this valley, during which period we erected
what is known as the Old Fort, surrounding three
sides of a ten acre block, with an adobe wall
about ten feet high on the outside, and the east
side with log cabins.  We also arranged for this 
fort to have four entrances, one on each point of
the compass.
	Most of the Pioneers returned to Winter Quar-
ters, where they arrived in the fall, making a
journey of over two thousand miles, besides the
labors performed while here in building a fort,
laying out the city and exploring adjacent valleys.
	I wish to say a few words to the members of the
Sabbath Schools and to all who are assembled in
this Tabernacle to-day to celebrate the arrival of
the Pioneers into this valley.  It is not wisdom
for me to occupy your time with a long address
upon an occasion of this kind, but I have referred
to a few incidents of our peculiar journey into
this barren desert, that you may keep in mind the
toil, the care and the hardships which your
fathers endured in laying the foundation of the
Zion of our God, which is to be established in the
mountains of Israel, in fulfilment of the blessing
of the old Patriarch Jacob pronounced upon his
posterity that should be fulfilled in the valleys of
the everlasting hills in the latter-days.  And upon
the heads of the rising generation of the Latter-
day Saints rests the responsibility of building up
the kingdom of God upon the foundations which
their fathers have laid.  And also of building up
a State in which shall dwell virtue, temperance,
industry, frugality and honesty; a State which will
do honor to the American government, where
wholesome laws shall be administered in equity
and justice to all of its citizens, according to the
letter and spirit of the Constitution given by in-
spiration of Almighty God to our forefathers.
	I feel to say to our children, Honor your father 
and your mother and your God, that your days
may be long and prosperous in these valleys of
the mountains which the Lord your God has given
unto you.
	That God may bless you all, and enable you to
fulfill the object of your creation here on the
earth to the satisfaction of yourselves and your
Creator, is the earnest desire of your friend and
brother,
					WILFORD WOODRUFF.
	Elder C. R. Savage made some remarks about
the plow that turned the first sod in Utah, and
that Elder Wm. Carter, now in the Penitentiary 
for conscience' sake, was the man who turned the
first sod.  He then read a brief letter from Bro.
Carter, which stated, "The plow has a place in the
Museum."  The speaker displayed the remains of
the plowshare, and also the old flag which was


lifted up on the mountains (Ensign Peak), as the
ensign of American liberty, by the pioneers.
Rounds of applause from the vast audience fol-
lowed. Bishop Millen Atwood, Bishop Jacob
Weiler, Patriarch Lorenzo D. Young, of the
pioneers, each made appropriate remarks.
	Bro. Young in his address said: “I want to re-
hearse to you a sentiment that was expressed to
to me by my wife, Harriet, who was with me, and
was one of three pioneer women, and other two
being Ellen Sanders Kimball and Clara Decker
Young, the latter of whom occupies a seat on this
stand to-day. My wife, looking over the valley—
there was no green thing for the eye to feed upon,
except about a half-dozen old cottonwood trees,
which grew near where the Methodist Church
now stands—turning to me she said: ‘Well, father,
(she was in the habit of thus addressing me) we
have traveled more than twelve hundred miles to
find a resting place, and as feeble as I am, I'm
willing to travel a thousand miles further, if we
could only find a place worth looking at, for it
seems to me no white people can live here.” Bro.
Young had been telling the people how desolate
this valley appeared when the pioneers came in;
“a valley of dry sunflowers, well stocked with
black crickets.”
	Sister Julia A. Silverwood sang:
"O Saints, have you seen, o'er yon mountain's proud
	height."

Chorus by the Tabernacle Choir.
	The Sunday School children sang:
			"Beautiful Zion, built above."

	Elder Geo. Goddard then read a letter from
Elder Richard Ballantyne, who started the first
Sunday School in Utah, in 1849.
	“Hail Columbia,” by the Silver Band. A. W.
Beach was called, and stood before the audience
while it was explained that he was the first child
born in Utah, in the Old Fort, Salt Lake City,
27th of October, 1857. He resides now at Ameri-
can Falls, Idaho. 
	Elder B. F. Cummings, jr., then read a letter
from the General Supt. of Deseret S. S. Union,
Prest. Geo. Q. Cannon. It was addressed to the
Superintendents, Teachers and Children of the
Sunday Schools, and contained much instruction
and many truths beautifully told.
	McIntyre’s Glee Club then sang, “The Soldier’s
Chorus.
	Then there was a stirring speech by Apostle
John Henry Smith, after which Sister Agnes
Olsen Thomas sang, in her own sweet style,
‘Thy Return."
	Bro. Moroni Thomas rendered in an excellent
voice, the anthem, “Ye shall dwell in the Land."
	An interesting speech from Apostle Heber J.
Grant. Bro. Goddard paid an appropriate com-
pliment to Bro. Joseph H. Ridges, who built the
Tabernacle Organ, and the S. S. children sang:
	"The youth of each land for their father-land stand."
	Prest. Angus M. Cannon paid a beautiful tribute
to the labors of the pioneers, and blest the
pioneers, the Saints and the pure in this and all
other lands. The immense audience rose, and
the benediction was pronounced by President A.
M. Cannon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

     WE are very grateful to Mrs. Betsy C. Glover, 
Mrs. Mary Gunderson and Miss Jennie Cowan for
handsome bouquets, fragrant with sweetness, to 
beautify the editorial rooms of the EXPONENT;
also to Mrs. Mary Grey for a basket of delicious 
ripe, red cherries.

	WE have on hand for publication reports of
sisters' conferences of Davis and Tooele Stakes, 
also minutes of P. A. Conference S. L. Stake, 
and of annual meetings of P. A. Providence,


Millville and Richmond, and two letters of Cor-
respondence, one from Millard Stake and one
from Snowflake.  These we expect to use, though
they may be somewhat condensed. 
	WE acknowledge the courtesy of a Circular of
the Salt Lake Stake Academy, for the third
Academic Year, 1888-89.  We were very pleased
to notice in the list of "The Faculty" the name of
a lady teacher—Dr. Mattie P. Hughes, Lady
Superintendent.  We intend making a lengthy
notice of this home educational academy.
	WE have received, by courtesy of the Principal, 
Dr. J. R. Park, the "Annual of the University of
Deseret," 18 8889.  It contains an excellent en-
graving of the new University Building, and gives
one a good idea of the grounds and surroundings. 
We shall be pleased to make a more extended
notice of the Annual in our next issue, Aug. 15th. 
We hope, also, to make a suitable notice of the
Deaf and Dumb Department of this valuable insti-
tution of learning.


[Column 1]

MEMORIAL ANNIVERSARY.

REPORT OF THE RELIEF SOICETY MEETING,
	HELD IN THE OGDEN TABERNACLE, JULY
	19TH, 1888, IN COMMEMORATION OF THE
	LAST PUBLIC VISIT AND INSTRUCTIONS OF
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG, ON INVITA-
	TION OF PRESIDENT JANE S. RICHARDS, TO
	THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND YOUNG LADIES'
	IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS OF THE 
	WEBER STAKE OF ZION, JUST ELEVEN 
	YEARS AGO THE 19TH INST.

(REPORTED BY JOHN M. WHITTAKER.)

	Of those present were President Jane S. Rich-
ards and her Counselors, Mrs. Hattie C. Brown
and Emily Shurtliff, of the Weber Stake Relief
Society, and President Sarah Herrick of Y. L. M.
I. A. of Weber Stake.

VISITING PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY,

	Mary A. Hyde, Prest. of Sanpete Stake; Har-
riet Snow, Prest, of Box Elder Stake; Olivia
Widerborg, Counselor; Sarah S. Richards, Gen-
tile Valley, Idaho; Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
17th Ward, S. L. City; Rachel Grant, 13th Ward,
S. L. City.

Y. L. M. I. A.

	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, Prest. Central Board;
Mattie H. Tingey, Counselor; Minnie Snow,
Prest. Box Elder Stake; Mary A. Freeze, of Salt
Lake Stake.
	Other Officers, R. S. and Y. L.: Presendia L. Kim-
ball, Helen M. Whitney, Sarah J. Cannon, Maria W.
Wilcox, Mary A. Richards, Dr. E. S. Barney,
Lydia Ann Wells, Sarah Dunford, Phebe Y.
Beattie, Emily S. Richards, Lydia Alder, Adella
W. Eardley, Dr. Romania B. Pratt, and Emmeline
B. Wells, Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VISITING BRETHREN.

	Apostles Franklin D. Richards and Heber J
Grant, Lewis W. Shurtliff, Prest. Weber Stake,
President Angus M. Cannon, of Salt Lake Stake,
Samuel W. Richards, Dr. Edward Isaacson, and
several other Presidents and Bishops, and a num-
ber of visitors from Salt Lake and other parts.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards called the meeting to
order, and the  congregation joined in singing,
"How firm a foundation." Prayer was offered by
Bishop Robert McQuarrie. Continued by singing,
"Come all ye sons of Zion."
	Sister Jane S. Richards, Prest. of the Relief So-
ciety of Weber Stake, then said:
	My beloved sisters, I feel as though I could
speak for you all to-day, when I say that we have
come here with the full intention of having a good
time. I hope so, I trust we have; and I think

[Column 2]

that if we have brought that desire with us strong
enough, the same inspiration that appointed this
meeting, we shall have a good time, and the Spirit
of the Lord will be with us. This is my greatest
desire.
	We have been honored with a number of our
friends from the city, who have come up, even
more than I expected. That shows that they
think something of us. It seems something like
uniting Salt Lake and Weber County together,
and that is just what we want to do—to increase
our union. I feel very grateful to all the brethren
and sisters who have come up hither. They are
nearly all our friends and intimate acquaintances,
and I trust we shall have a good time.
	Of course, everything is plain and sim-
ple with us here. Our talk is simple and small,
and sometimes we have a very good time in talk-
ing these simple things that we have to live
through in life, day by day. Our work is made
up of almost everything small. We are here to
commemorate the day when President Brigham
Young preached his last sermon in Weber County;
and when I think of the good instructions he then
gave, I wonder how much of them we have carried
in our lives? I ask myself this question very
frequently, and I find that I do not carry out as
much as I ought to; but one thing I do, I try to
do better to-day than I did yesterday, and my de-
sires are good. Indeed, I know my Counselors,
the presidents and sisters of this Stake, endeavor
to carry out all the instructions the Priesthood
gives us at all times.
	I am pleased we have two of the Apostles and
President A. M. Cannon from Salt Lake, and
other of the brethren and sisters who have had a
great experience in this Church, and who under-
stand what they have to go through with. And we
feel pleased to-day to make them WELCOME here
in our midst, and will listen to their instructions
I must say that from the day that our beloved
President Young gave the instructions here from
this stand about our holding meetings quarterly,
they have increased and done a great deal of good.
Still there are some who will say, "I do not know
how to get to meeting to-day. I can't leave the
family very well. I don't know how I can leave."
But those who have made the effort and have gone
to those meetings have said that it made them feel
much better.  It encouraged them. And after I
have spoken they have said, "You have spoken
my mind exactly, better than I could have done it
myself." It was a difficult thing to get the sisters
started. We now enjoy our meetings together
much better.
	We are going to have a portion of President
Young's sermon, which he delivered eleven years
ago, read to-day; the counsel therein contained
is wise and fatherly. I know it is almost impossi-
ble to do exactly right; but we are trying to do it
from time to time. We are trying to do what we
are told by the President and authorities. In the
past we had Sister Eliza, who was kind enough to
come often and counsel us and direct our labors. We
have listened to her instructions from time to time,
and have taken pleasure in following her advice.
We have thought when Sister Eliza was here
everything would go right. She has visited with
me throughout this County since these quarterly
meetings have been inaugurated. President Tay-
lor has been here, and we have been blessed.
President Woodruff, and Brothers Cannon and
Smith would be here to day if they could. Their
hearts are here with us, and their sympathies are
with us, and we would be glad to have them here
if circumstances were favorable, but they are pre-
vented from mingling in our society to-day.
	Now, for a long time we have missed Sister
Eliza, and she is gone beyond this life. But we
have another President to take her place, one who
has traveled shoulder to shoulder throughout this
territory with Sister Eliza, and it would have been
a great pleasure to have had her here with us on


[Column 1]

this occasion. But she is not in the territory now,
or she would be here to-day. I know her heart is
here, and if I could postpone the 19th day of July
until Sister Zina could come, I should be pleased.
But I cannot do it. We should pray for Sister
Zina where she is. And I pray the Lord to hasten
the time that she may be in our midst, traveling
around among the sisters, comforting them as
heretofore, and as Sister Eliza R. S. Smith has
done.
	Sisters, I don't feel that it is permissible for me
to take up the time to-day. I am thankful to see you
here. I am thankful that during this busy time, when
you say it is this and it is that which requires my
time, when harvest is at hand, and with the exer-
cise of everything in its turn, I am glad, I say,
that you have had time to meet together.
	I can speak with pride of the sisters of Weber
County. I have never asked them to do one
single thing and have been refused. They have
been more than willing to do everything that was
required of them. And this makes me feel happy.
I have always had my requests honored; and for
this I thank you here to-day.
	May God bless us, that we may have a good time
I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.

PRESIDENT L. W. SHURTLIFF. 

	My beloved sisters: I presume you all feel thank-
ful to have the opportunity of meeting together to
commemorate this day. I have thought of it a
good many times with pleasure and pride that it
fell to the sisters of Weber County to have the
Quarterly Conferences inaugarated here by Presi-
dent Brigham Young, when he came and talked to
the sisters of this Stake at that time, as Sister
Richards, your President, has said, we could not
see the good that would result from this organiza-
tion of the Stake, and also the Young Ladies'
Improvement Association.
	I believe that there is no sister or brother in
this Stake of Zion, especially those who have rest-
ing upon them responsibility, and who are inter-
ested in the work of the Lord, but can say there
is no organization, except the Priesthood, that
has been a greater blessing to this County than
has the Relief Society—in many ways: And I
have to mention here this morming, that I am
thankful to see the people out here. I see repre-
sentatives from every settlement in this County.
I see representative women, I believe, of all the
branches in this Stake. I also see some of the
brethren from various parts of this Stake. I am
glad to see Sister Richards and her Counselors,
and so many of the brethren and sisters—visitors
from Salt Lake—two. Apostles and President Can-
non. I feel to welcome you all here to-day, and I
trust we may hear many good things from those
who have come to address us. God bless you,
and the brethren and sisters who shall address us
here to-day, and may He inspire them with the
Spirit of the Lord, that we may be fed, bleesed
and benefitted in this Stake of Zion, is my prayer.
Amen.

PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS.

	Being requested, I will read a few sentences or
a paragraph or two from President Young's ser-
mon, which he delivered, standing where I do
now, just eleven years ago to day; and a good
many who are here to-day will, doubtless, remem-
ber what he then said as I read them. It will be
remembered that on that occasion the house was
well filled with the Relief Societies, the Young
Ladies' Socities, then called Retrenchment So-
cieties, and brethren and sisters. Elder Richards
then read as follows:
	(Taken from the 19th Vol. Journal of Discourses,
Page 66.)
	"The People called Latter-day Saints say they
wish to know and understand how to order their
lives before Him whom we serve and acknowledge
as our Father and our God. If I were to give

[Column 2]

you my own feelings with regard to instructions,
many of you would perhaps consider it egotism;
still, I take the liberty of saying to these my sis-
ters, if the counsel and instruction that your un-
worthy servant has given to the inhabitants of the
earth had been obeyed and carried out, I have
taught them enough to have saved the nations of
the earth, and to have made every one of them to
be Latter-day Saints.
	"We are, professedly, Saints. What is the differ-
ence between a Saint of God and an angel of
God? One is clothed upon with mortality, the
other has passed through mortality and has re-
ceived the celestial glory of our Heavenly Father,
and is free from contaminating influences of sin
that we have to contend with. This is the differ-
ence. We ask the question, can mortal beings
live so they are worthy of the society of angels?
I answer the question for myself— I believe that
they can; I am sure that they can. But in doing
this, they must subdue the sin that is within them-
selves, correct every influence that arises within
their own hearts that is opposed to the sanctify-
ing influences of the grace of God, and purify
themselves by their faith and by their conduct, so
that they are worthy. Then they are prepared for
the society of angels. To be Saints indeed, re-
quires every wrong influence that is within them,
as individuals, to be subdued, until every evil de-
sire is eradicated, and every feeling of their hearts
is brought into entire subjection to the will of
Christ. Now you all believe this just as much as
I do.	*	*	*	*	*	*
	"Here are mothers. Who give the key to the na-
tions of the earth with regard to their feelings,
pride, prejudices; their religion, habits and cus-
toms, and, I may say, who, in a great degree, gov-
ern, that lay the foundation for the ability that is
exhibited among the nations of men? It is the
mothers. Who have laid the foundations in the
hearts of the children to prepare them to be great
and good men? It is not the fathers—it is the
mothers. It is like the saying of the Savior with
regard to the poor. Speaking to His Disciples He
says: 'For the poor always have ye with you,
but me ye have not always.' Now, the children
are always with the mother, and the mother is al-
ways with the children, but the father they have
not. He is in the field at his work; and the
 mother is all the time making impressions upon
the minds of the children. Permit me here to say,
mothers, and my sisters, you who are young, it
will do you good if you will observe it. You see,
hear and witness a good deal of contention among
 children—some of you do, if not all, and I will
give you a few words in regard to your future lives,
that you may have children that are not conten-
tious, not quarrelsome. Always be good-natured
yourselves, is the first step. Never allow your-
selves to become out of temper and get fretful.
'Why,' mothers say, 'this is a very mischievous
little boy or little girl.' What do you see? That
amount of vitality in those little children that they
cannot keep still. If they cannot do anything else
they will trip over the chair, cut up and pull away
at anything to raise a row. They are so full of
life that they cannot contain themselves; and they
are something like ourselves—boys. They have
so much vitality in them that their bones fairly
ache with strength. They have such an amount
of vitality—life, strength and activity, that they
must dispose of it, and the young ones will con-
tend with each other. Do not be out of temper
youselves. Always sympathize with them and
soothe them. Be mild and pleasant. If you see
a child with knives and forks, playing with them,
it might put out its eyes. It will not do to give it
a hammer and a looking glass. What will you do?
I am a person of experience, and know how to
deal with children. If the child has in its hand
that which it should not have, let the mother or
the father, or whoever has charge of the child or
has the right, take such things from it, and put 

[Column 3]

them away where they belong. Now, mothers,
listen to this—Never ask a child to give up that
which it should not have. Step up kindly and
put the article where it belongs. The child will
not say anything. A little circumstance took
place in Salt Lake City. I had business in a
house where I had understood there had been
considerable trouble occasionally; and the mother
would not let the father speak to the children, to
chastise them. I went into the house and talked
to the man. The lady came in and sat down. I
pretty soon saw a little girl, about two years old,
with a thimble in her mouth, sucking it. I went
up to the little girl, took the thimble from her and
put it on the mantle shelf. Says I to the mother,
'You must not allow the child to have this thing;
if it should go into the stomach it will decay.' The
man looked at me as if he would faint away. He
was a large man, but I suppose he never attempted
to say such a thing to his wife in his life. I said
it; and the mother was so confounded that she did
not say a word; and it would not have done her
any good if she had. Now, if you will mind this,
you bring up your children correctly, and teach
them those principles and habits that are correct,
and you will find that you will improve very ma-
terially in your families. If you find that your
children are cruel, do not contend with them,
soothe them, and invite those who, through acci-
dent, have injured a little sister, to pity her. 'You
have accidentally hurt your little sister, go and
kiss her.' By taking this course, you will have
good children, and they will not contend with each
other. I am talking to you of that which I know.
I have had an experience in these matters.
	I will relate a little incident that occurred in my
own family. a little boy, about three and a half
years old, was very ill. His mother would feed
him bread and milk, or whatever he wished. As
soon as he could stand by her, every day he
wanted his bread and milk. Just as soon as he
had got what he wanted, he would throw up his
hands, and away went the basin to the floor. His
mother did not know what to do. Said I, 'If you
will do just as I tell you, I will tell you what to do.
The next time you sit down to feed this little boy,
when he has got through he will knock the dish
out of your hand.' Said I, 'Lean him against a
chair, do not say one word to him, go to your
work, pay no attention to him whatever.' She did
so. The little fellow stood there and looked at
her, watched her; and then he looked at the basin
and the spoon, watch his mother and look at the
basin and spoon again. By and by he got down
and crept along the floor and climbed up to the
chair, and then set the basin on the table, and
crept until he got the spoon and put it on the
table. He never tried to knock that dish out of
her hand again. Now, she might have whipped
him and injured him, as a great many others would
have done; but if they know what to do, they can
 correct the child without violence.
	"One of the nicest things in the world is to let an
enemy alone entirely, and it mortifies him to death.
If your neighbors talk about you, and you think
that they do wrong in speaking evil of you, do not
let them know you ever heard a word, and con-
duct yourselves as if they always did right, and it
will mortify them and they will say, 'We'll not try
this game any longer.' I have seen men, and
women also, that are never happy until they are
miserable, and never easy until they are in pain.
	"These are little things; but is not the world
made up of little things? The whole earth is
made up of small atoms of sand. Our lives are
made up of little simple circumstances, that
amount to a great deal when brought together,
and sum up the whole life of the man or woman;
and yet, in our passing from one to another, our
little acts and incidents seem to be very minute or
simple, but we find that they amount to a great
deal.
	"Now, sisters, will you learn these things? I


want to see the children of this people grow up as 
they should; and I want to go a little farther with
regard to your clildren.  Commence, mothers, 
just as quick as the child is old enough to under-
stand, which is quite young.  They observe the
acts and doings of the mother, and whoever is
present.  From these acts they imbibe their first
impressions.  Now, mothers, do you want your
children to be Saints?  Do you want your sons and
daughters to be  good and great, and their lives
filled up with usefulness?  'Certainly, with all my
heart.'  Then lay that foundation for future life by
teaching each little child what it should do. 
Teach that child honesty, uprightness and truth-
fulness.  Never permit a falsehood to be told, nor
the color of a falsehood, without correction. 
Train that child by your own acts and words, 
from its infancy, so it may imbibe the principle in
its own heart to be perfectly honest.  Teach that 
child to believe  in God our Heavenly Father. 
Teach it to believe, to have confidence in Him. 
	"Why, He is the author of your lives.  Here
are your father and mother with regard to your
natural body.  As soon as they can understand
anything at all, teach them--'Yes, my little child, 
but you have a spirit within you.  Were it not for 
this spirit, you would not have life in you.  Here
are the father and mother of your tabernacle;  but
you have a spirit in you, and the father of that
spirit is your Heavenly Father, whom we serve as
our God.  You must have implicit confidence in
this Being.  You must depend upon Him always. 
If you are in danger in the least, you must believe
in God and ask God to rescue you, to preserve 
you; and your faith must be in the name of Him
that He has given, whom He calls His only Be-
gotton Son, to die a ransom for our sins."  And
as soon as they can understand, teach them with
regard to the original sin.  Teach them to have
implicit confidence in the Father through our
Lord Jesus Christ; and every time they need wis-
dom, to ask for wisdom, and ask for understand-
ing; and every time they are in trouble, ask our
Heavenly Father to give them comfort, and they
will feel joyous instead of grievous, and will feel
a buoyant feeling instead of being cast down. 
Teach the childrea to pray, that when they are
large enough to go into the field with their father
they may have faith that if they are in danger
they will be protected.  Teach them that those
good angels that are ministering spirits, and their
angels, to guard and defend the just and pure
watch over them continually.  And teach them, I am
sorry to say there are not many mothers who do
teach it, that they may grow up with this under-
standing, that our Heavenly Father takes cogniz-
ance of all our acts and doings, and of us, as in-
dividuals, and that His eye is over us, and there
is not so much as a hair of our heads falls to the
ground without the notice of our Heavenly Father. 
Teach them these things and they will grow up
into this habit.  You may call it tradition, but it
is an excellent one.  You can sow the seeds of
infidelity and they will grow there.  Teach the
children so that when they go out from the pres-
ence of their father and mother, God is in all
their thoughts.  Can you come to this under-
standing, mothers?  If I were talking to the
brethren, I shold say no man in this church has
the right or privilege to enter business, or go at
anything without having God in his thoughts, and
asking for guidance and direction in all his ways. 
And I will say to the mothers and sisters, now
give your children this correct tradition in their 
youth.  As I was talking to one of my wives she
said:" Who is there that teaches her children
these things?"  I turned to one and said: "There 
is one of my wives;  she has children full of faith, 
because she made it her business to teach them
the tradition to believe in God the Father, to call
upon Him continually;  and God was in their
thoughts from morning until evening, all the time
they were awake says I."  There is the woman;

[column 2]
she has taught her children."  Now, I know that
mothers can teach their children;  and they ought
to teach them, and this is my duty to tell you what
to do in this case.  Remember to traditionate your
children in the nurture and admonition of the 
Lord.  Teach them as they ought to be taught, 
and they will have faith from their youth up, and
the Spirit of the Lord to direct them, that they
may never lose sight of this faith in Christ, and
our Heavenly Father, and when they are old they
will not depart from the good path.  I am firm in
the faith and verily believe, that if mothers will
bring up their children aright, and give them that
early training that they should have, their children
will grow up and never depart from the path of
rectitude and truth. 
	The mothers are the moving instruments in the
hands of Providence to guide the destinies of na-
tions.  Let the mothers of any nation teach their 
children not to make war, the children will grow
up and never enter into it.  Let the mothers teach
their children, "War upon your enemies, yes, war
to the hilt!"  and they will be filled with this spirit. 
Consequently, you see at once what I wish to im-
press upon your mind is, that the mothers are the
machinery that give zest to the whole man, and 
guide the destinies and lives of men upon the
earth."
			To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				

﻿


ANTI-MORMON BOOK.

MRS. E. B. WELLS,
	DEAR FRIEND:—I have read "Esther, the Gen-
tile,"  Money could never tempt me to write such
a book.  Such a weak plot, so poorly written, like
a cheap novel.  It does not represent anything
that ever could have happened among the Saints. 
I will never say again that "truth is stranger than
fiction," for in this case fiction is such a nondescript
that one can't imagine what it is intended to re-
present.  It comes as near the mark as a lie I once 
read about Apostle Jones of the Mormon Church
marrying a Chinese woman, so as to have a com.
plete collection of nationalities in his family.
Next!
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	South Bountiful, July 22nd, 1888.


APPRECIATION.

OFFICE OF THE EXPONENT:
	DEAR LADIES:—I have been very much grati-
fied with the literary attainments and pleasant tone
of the editorials in your paper.  I have certainly
a very different idea of the trials and struggles of
the Mormon Pioneers, from what I have had be-
fore.  I wanted to know the standing of the
women rights' advocates, among your people, and
I have been gratified indeed.
	I wish that I might help many who do not believe
in their good faith to feel differently, although I
could not myself believe in the Book of Mormon;
but the noble, loving hearts, whose self-surrender
is unknown, appeal to my sympathies.
						MRS. A. CLARK.
	Nantucket, R. I.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		HYDE PARK P. A.

     The anniversary of the Primary Association
of Hyde Park Ward, was held July 9th, 1888.
There were present Stake President Jane E.
Molen, her acting Counselor, Emma Pike, act-
ing Bishop, Suel Lamb, and others.  Prest.
Amelia Kirby presided.  The children sang,
“Dare and Do.” Prayer by Elder Wm. M.
Daines.  Singing, “Youthful Sonnet.” Minutes
of July 9th, 1887, and statistical and financial
reports were read and accepted.

[column 2]
     A good programme was rendered by the
children; after which Stake Prest. Jane E.
Molen spoke to them on prayer and the princi-
ples of the Gospel.  Said the work Sister Eliza
R. Snow Smith had organized should be
carried on.
     Coun. Emma Pike was pleased with the way
the children had said their parts.  Exhorted
all to be prayerful and orderly while in meet-
ing.
     Bishop Lamb spoke about the persecution of
the Saints; said, “You are preparing yourselves
to help bear off the kingdom of God.  Try
and shun the powers of darkness, and try and
repay our sisters for what they are doing for
you by obeying their counsel, and trying to be
good children.”
The following named persons were sustained
as officers of the Association:  Amelia Kirby,
President: Johannah M. Peterson and Harriet
Woolf, Counselors; Myra Lamb and Phebe
Thurston, Assistant Counselors; Lydia Daines,
Secretary; May Daines, Assistant Secretary;
Florence Woolf; Treasurer.
     Elders Wm. M. Daines and Thos. Duce each
made encouraging remarks.
     Prest. Amelia Kirby and Harriet Woolf
each felt pleased with the meeting, and de-
sired to go on and do all the good they could.
Thanked the brethren and sisters for coming 
in to visit us.
     The children sang, “Some Place For Me.”
Benediction pronounced by Jane E. Molen.
				LYDIA DAINES, Sec.

BOX ELDER STAKE.	
     The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle on the 12th of June, 1888, Prest.
H. A. Snow presiding.  Singing, “Great God;
attend while Zion sings.” Prayer by Prest. H.
A. Snow.  Annie Wixom acted as secretary
pro tem.  Roll called.  Minutes read and
accepted.
     Prest. Snow: “It is important that we should
comprehend our duties, that we may be a
mighty band in Zion.  If the members and
officers attend to their duties we become so
much stronger and capable to stand steadfast
and firm in the faith in the various scenes in
our lives.  The growth and management of
the Relief Society devolves on every one of
us.”
     Prest. Jane Peery, Three Mile Creek, Prest.
M. A. Hubbard, Willard, Prest. Harriet Hun-
saker, Honeyville, Coun. Jensen, Mantua,
and Prest. Harper each made excellent re-
marks, and spoke interestingly of her duties.
     Coun. Olivia Widerborg made closing re-
marks in a very wise and motherly manner.
     Singing, “How firm a foundation,” etc.
Benediction by Harriet Hunsaker.
     Afternoon session:  Singing, “O God, our
help in ages past.” Prayer by Prest. Samuel
Smith.  Singing.
     Prest. Susannah P. Booth, Coun. Robins,
Snowville, Prest. Mary Jensen, Sister Jenson
and Prest. Watkins each spoke intelligently of
the work in which she was engaged.  Emilia
D. Madsen spoke next.
     Prest. Rudger Clawson: “The Lord says He
will help those who help themselves.  My sym-
pathy is with the sisters.” Spoke of the crea-
tion. woman was necessary.  "The Lord says,
'Man is not without the woman, nor woman
without the man.’ Although our efforts may
seem small, as though we did not accomplish
much, still, if we give our whole heart to the
Lord, He will bless us and our progress is
sure.”
Bishop Tingy, Prest. S. Smith, Coun. Adolph
Madsen, Sister  Esther Goodliff, and Coun.
Charles Kelley each made timely and sugges-
tive remarks.
Prest. Snow spoke of the labor of the secre-


taries.  "They are the historians of our
branch."
	Singing, "Now let us rejoice," etc.  Benedic-
tion by Patriarch Box.
			ANNIE WIXOM, Sec. pro tem.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society Conference of
Maricopa Stake, held at the Bowery, Mesa
City June 21st, 1888, Elizabeth G. McDonald
presiding.  The different branches of the So-
ciety were well represented; there were a num-
ber of the brethren also present.  After the
usual preliminaries of singing and prayer, the
roll was called, and minutes of previous con-
ference read and approved.
	Prest. McDonald expressed her pleasure at
again meeting in the capacity of a conference.
Desired the faith and prayers of the Saints,
that we might pass the time profitably while
together.  There were but few of us, but sup-
posed it was owing to the sickness prevailing
in our midst.  Had visited the different branches
since our last conference, and found a good
spirit prevailing.
	Presidents of the branch societies then gave
verbal reports, showing an increased zeal and 
faithfulness of the few working bees of the 
hive.  Some were always making promises of
their good intentions, attending meetings, etc.,
but scarcely ever came; while another class
were perfectly indifferent, whether the Relief
Society lived or died, as far as their help was
concerned, but upon the whole the reports were
quite favorable.
	Coun. Sarah E. Russell felt there were many 
subjects to speak upon, she scarcely knew what
to say.  Made reference to the great amount of
sickness in our midst.  "Reference has been
made to the necessity of fasting and prayer,
that the Lord would rebuke the destroyer.
Perhaps this was a judgment upon us for our
slackness in regard to our duties"  Had re-
ceived great comfort from the visits of the
teachers.
	Coun. Morris said, "Let us go to the Lord
for strength to carry us through our trials.
Felt to respond cheerfully to every call made
upon her.
	Prest. Charles I. Robson felt the importance
of the times we are living in; thought the day
was near at hand when the reign of righteous-
ness would commence upon the earth.  "How
many of us are living so that we are prepared
to cope with the power of the destroyer?"
Spoke feelingly of the spirit of infidelity which
is prevailing with our children; appealed to the
sisters to assist the brethren in checking this in
our midst.  Could trace it in a great measure
to our schools as they were taught; suggested
having schools of our own, where the princi-
ples of the Gospel could be taught.  "Our
children are our glory.  What sorrow to the 
fond parent to see his children growing up in
infidelity, without the power to check it.  Sis-
ters, visit the sick, and comfort them, speak
cheering words and administer to their wants.
The brethren, also, should exercise faith in
God, that when they are called upon to ad-
minister to the sick, they can do so with power.
Let us live so that we can lay claim to the
promises of God unto us."
	Coun. Collings Hakes said, "We must be
consistent in our course, and practice the princi-
ples we profess."	*	*	Referred
to the spirit that governs the world.  "There
is no religion in it.  Fathers and mothers
should be awake to their duties in regard to
their children.  Let us live so that the power
of the destroyer may be rebuked in the name
of Israel's God."
	Bro. Charles Allen made reference to the
words of Apostle Thatcher—that the Lord
would continue these trials until the people
forsook their evil ways.  "These trials are for
our good, and we should acknowledge His hand

[column 2]
in them.  Let us place ourselves in a proper 
position, that the Lord will hear and answer
our prayers.  Obey the commands of God,
and our faith will be strengthened, and the de-
stroyer will pass us by."  Prayed the Lord to
bless us, and give us hearts to understand our
duties.
	Bro. Martin bore testimony to the truth of
what had been said; had had many testimonies
of the truth of this work.
     Prest. E. McDonald felt that we had truly
had a feast.  Gave counsel to the sisters to
have a care in their remarks before their child-
ren, and not sow the seeds of infidelity in their 
hearts.  "Be careful how you speak of your
neighbors before them."  Asked the Lord's
blessing upon us, that we might increase in
good works.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Think gently of the erring one."
Benediction by C. I. Robson.
			SARAH M. POMEROY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MY LESSON.

	I will try to tell about a lesson I learned to-
day, in hopes it will benefit some one else, if
we only remember it.  Last night Ned and his
father had just lit the lamp in the sitting room,
and I had finished my kitchen work, and joined
them, where we three, and no more, were to
enjoy a long evening reading aloud from one
of Mrs. Holmes’ works, when some one
knocked at the front door—a man to ask if his
wife and little ones could come in and make a
bed on the floor, as it was too cold to sleep in
the wagon.  We told him he could have the
kitchen and cook-stove to use as he pleased, if
that would suit him.  He was very glad to
get any accomodation, as no one likes to have
their house littered and filled with movers,
especially when there are children.  I sup-
posed there were three or five, perhaps, but
after taking a lamp to the kitchen and throwing
a pan of chips into the stove to make a hot
fire, for it was very cold, Will threw open the
door, and in marched nine persons, where there
was room for us three if we were all good na-
tured.  I saw there was no room for the mother
with a baby in her arms, so I took her into
our room.  She began to unwrap what I took
to be a child about a year old, in very poor
health.
	I said, “Your baby is not well?”
	She replied, “This is not a baby, I have two
younger than this one; he is a little unfortunate
from spinal disease, and is eight years old.”
	I could not look any longer, for I saw that
the light was gone from his eyes and reason
had fled.  I said:
	“Oh how much better off he would be if he
could be laid away to rest forever.”
	She looked up at me surprised, and ex-
plained that those we cared for the most we
loved the most, and if there could be any differ-
ence, she would mourn for this one more than
any of the rest.  He did not suffer now, but
for two years he had screamed night and day,
except when under the influence of opiates,
and often big drops of cold sweat would drop
from his forehead.  That was all over now,
and she could love him and care for him, and
it seemed such a pleasure for her to do so, and
while she was nursing and raising others he
was her chief care; all his food had to be made
soft and put far back on his tongue, for while
he could swallow, he could not chew anything.
She wrapped him up in his blanket, and laid
him in one corner of the room, as you would
a rag doll, and went to the kitchen to prepare
supper for her husband, hired man and other
little ones.
	I shut the door, and thought of my tall,
happy boy and pleasant home, and said to my-
self, “Surely this woman’s burden is greater
than she can bear.” But her pleasant voice

[column 2]
and quick step did not sound like a burden to
any one, and when I saw her down on the
floor with her little ones, the proud, happy
look in her eyes surprised me; but I was more
surprised this morning on looking into the
wagon after they were all ready to start.  I
saw her in the centre of a feather bed, packing
her little ones around her and covering them
with bedding.  I said, “You look comfort-
able!” and she replied with one of her bright
smiles:
	"Yes, we have nothing to complain of."
	I came back to my work with those words
ringing in my ears, and the tears very close
to my eyes.  Nothing to complain of, and I,
who had almost everything, and could not find
work enough to fill my leisure hours, com-
plained every day.	
	Dear sisters, this was my lesson, and it has
done me good; may some of you apply it and
be benefitted by it as I was.—Farm and Gar-
den.							TILDA.


IN MEMORIAM.
  
     Sister Sarah Moulton, the dearly beloved wife of Thomas
Moulton, died July 7th, 1888, aged 71 years, 1 month and
7 days.  Deceased was born at Rushton, Northhampton-
shire, June 5th, 1817.  Embraced the Gospel in December,
1840, near her native place.  Her posterity, living and dead,
number 91.
     She was always a true Latter-day Saint, having crossed the
plains with the handcart company, and endured without
murmuring the trials they passed through.  She was always
at her post in the Relief Society, Primary Association and
Sunday School, giving counsel to the children of the
Saints.  Her loss is deeply regretted by all who knew her

		Weep not for me, dear friends, be still,
		I must obey my Father’s will;
		If called to leave you, do not mourn,
		Think on the day when I'll return.

		And if your love is fixed on me, 
		Think of the place where I shall be;	
		There's thrones, dominions, kingdoms there,
		Come, strive with me those joys to share,
		Sit down with Him, the Great I Am,			
		To the marriage supper of the Lamb.
				From the Heber West Ward Relief Society.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114,116, 118 East Temple Street


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
