VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1889.		NO. 21.


THE POET OF GOOD DEEDS.

If you would make life's journey safe and sure,
	Be patient to endure;
	Let all your thoughts be pure.
Your aspirations high, each purpose strong,
To strive and win the victory over wrong.

Let every ill be borne with patience trust,
	And learn from day to day,
	To bear your cross along an even way;
'Twill win for you the star crown of the just,
And leave upon your robes no soil of dust,
Upon your souls no stains of cankering rust.

Leave scorning to the proud, and pride to those
Who dwell in clay-built huts,
Down in the marl-pits and the moral ruts,
	Wherein men fall whose souls
The greed of gain o'ermasters and controls.

Go, cheer the sorrowing; feed earth's hungry souls,
	Starving for bread of life,
Weary and worn with watching and with strife.
	They need our heart's best prayer,
	The gentle, tender care
That soothes with pleasant words and acts of love,
The bruised hearts that seldom look above
Their idols made of clay,
	That fade so soon away.
And leave them mourning like a wounded dove
Whose mate is dead; or, faithless, learned to rove
To other bowers within a neighboring grove.

Cheer on the young, whose race is just begun;
	Sustain the aged forms
	Bowed low beneath life's storms;
Bless those who rise; encourage those who fall!
They are our brothers still! oh, bless them all.
Thus will ye sow on earth the blessed seeds
That, springing up and whitening in the field,
	A hundred fold shall yield
Of fruits for human needs,
And men will bless you for those golden seeds,
And angels call you "Poet of good Deeds.

		BELLE BUSH.
Belvidere Seminary, New Jersey.
The Phrenological Journal.


IN MEMORIAM.

OF REBECCA JONES TO S. M. KIMBALL.

I have the view you sent me of the dear familiar place,
And memories come o'er me, which time cannot efface;
I see the loving tokens for the dear departed one,
Whose earthly love and anxious care for others weal is
	done.
I met her last and parted far, far away from home,
We little thought 'twould be the last while here on earth we
	roam;
And Clara too was with her, peace, peace to both I pray,
God grant they both have entered in, unto a brighter day.
I have sent her letters sent me, from California's shore,
I prized them very highly then, I'll prize them now the
	more,
As links of love that bind me unto a loving past,
Kind words of sympathy and hope, whose memory will
	last
I've been thinking of the many homes made brighter when
	she came,
Whose hours of glad reunion can never be the same.
Where there will be a vacant chair, 'till time shall be no
	more, 
And mother, sister, friend we meet upon the Golden Shore.

I've stood beside her in the dance, and by the bed of pain,
Her hands seemed never tired, neither the heart or brain;
But ever, ever striving, to comfort, cheer and bless,
A rock of strength and shelter in this world of sore dis-
	tress.


You say that you are lonely since she hath passed away—
How many, many loving hearts would fain have had her
	stay;
But He who knoweth best, hath said enough, she may
	have rest,
My Crown, her Cross, shall now replace in the Mansions
	of the blest.

I see upon the Picture of our dear old Hall, the Place
Where we looked for her in meeting, then the Tokens sad
	I trace;
That says her place is vacant, she has gone to meet her
	God,
Whose path through life in meekness, she hath humbly
	firmly trod.

Here too, I see a picture, made by a warm, true heart,
Now resting from his labors, Our Willie's work of Art,
He has left a living monument in cottage and in hall,
And will be missed by many, for he was loved by all.

Now I would send a flower from my home 'neath sunny
	sky.
In token of a friendship, that can never, never die;
A wreath twined all of Myrtle, place them upon each
	grave,
And may peace and love be with you, in His name who
	died to save.	HOPE.


THE GIRLS. 

	I often wonder if "the girls of our set" in
the years of the good old time" ever look back
and enjoy themselves as I do. There were
only a few of us, and not rich in this world's
goods, but oh, so rich in happiness. Our meet-
ing house, our school house and dancing hall
which was built of logs, with a huge fire-place
opposite the one door has witnessed more real
enjoyment than its commedious successor.
	Then, we were very proud of a new linsey
dress, and dressed what to-day would appear
as very plain, we used to dance as much, or
more than the well dressed belles of to day.
How we used to make our wheels hum, and
then when we met, boast of the number of
skeins we had spun. Then our evening gather-
ings, how sweet the potatoes were baked in the
coals, how often we were comforted when the
"corn in the hand" was as we guessed it when
"supposing he loves you," was the question.
	And the rides, and sometimes we girls would
really tee-ter. No doubt we were Tom boys,
but I thank God that our hoydenism did not
lead to sin. Now we "girls" are mature
women, to whom many things of the past
would appear as trifles light as the air, were it
not for the sun shine of those days that so far
have cast a radiance over our lives.
	We are all mothers of large families, except
one, who with her first born lies where our
restless feet often led us, and where most of us
have since lain one or more of our darlings.
	We are scattered afar now; but few remain
at the "home of our childhood." Some were
driven by adverse circumstances and some by
cruel laws; and all are struggling amidst the
care and responsibilities that rest upon all true
women that try to make the world better.
Though we have a glorious hope for the future,
the present some times tries the souls, and the
heart often throbs with pain at the thought of
home and the many friends there. To-night,
as my heart is warmed and gladdened by
sweet memories, I feel to ask God's choicest
blessings for "the girls."		E. T.


Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer is elected president
of Sorosis.


U. W. S. A. 

	The regular monthly meeting of the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association, convened in
the Social Hall, March 9th, 1889. Vice-Presi-
dent Mrs. L. D. Alder, in the chair. Prayer
by Hon. H. J. Grant. After miscellaneous
business was attended to, by invitation, Hon.
H. J. Grant, made the following speech:
	I have listened with interest and attention
to the minutes that have been read of the last
meeting. I can say that I am interested
myself, in the movement, for which this Asso-
ciation is laboring I believe, and have be-
lieved for many years, that it is the right of
those ladies that bear their proportion of the
burdens of government, to have equal rights
and privileges with the men if they wish to.
	I confess that there are some portions of the
duties, devolving upon those who manage the
public affairs in territories, cities, and the
general government, that I think, instead of
being elevating, would be the reverse to the
ladies. At the same time, the great majority
of the duties devolving on a citizen of the
country, can be equally shared with the ladies,
and to the great benefit of all. I remember in
our legislature, some years ago, there was a
bill introduced giving the ladies a right to
hold office. There was considerable opposition
to it, and some of it very marked. I remem-
ber taking sides then, when but a boy, with
those who favored granting this right; and I
thought those who contended, showed a lack
of liberality in their views, that was not be-
coming; and I have not changed in my opinion,
to the present time. It is generally considered
that a low class of people congregate at the
polling places, but those of us who took the
trouble to notice the conduct of the people at
such places in this city, prior to the time of
the legislature granting the franchise to women,
and the condition after, would see a marked
improvement. Well, the disposition of riotism
disappeared, and order took its place. I be-
lieve if we were to grant the right of voting, 
to the women, that the men that hold office
would be of a higher type than those who
hold office to-day. It is a fact that among
sensible and honorable men, in the various
sections of the country, almost without excep-
tion, I believe that Utah is the exception,
however, politics is considered beneath the
notice of the better class of citizens; and it is
to the office seeker, that to-day governs our
country; and saloon-men, and what is known
as the lower class of the people, not lower as
far as wealth is concerned, but in morals.
New York city, to-day, is overrun with just
such a class of people. In Chicago, they are
standing, upon a volcano almost, because of a
lack of honesty of the men who govern in
that section of the country. Those who elect
officers, the foreign element that has come
there and have sworn allegiance to the govern-
ment, are filled with Nihilistic desires, although
they have sworn allegiance to it. You all
know that if the power still remained in the
Legislature here, to grant the women the
privilege of voting, that this would be granted
unto them. Those of us who are Mormons,
know how energetically our so called friends
fought to try and get the right for the ladies
to vote, thinking that the Mormon trouble
would be solved by this means. The Utah
Legislature took this up and gave the right to


[Column 1]

the ladies, until these same reformers and pro-
fessed friends of Utah, then asked that the vote
be taken away from them. They showed their
love by working for their interest, they turned
round and worked in the opposite direction.
When women shall have the privilege of vot-
ing, they will exercise it more discreetly than
the men; because go where you will, you will
find more courage to stand by what is known
as duty, no matter what may be the consequences,
burning in the hearts of women than you find
in the hearts of men. Men are willing to
sacrifice their friends for personal glory;
their ambition has a price, and when it is
reached they are willing to sell out. This is
to a certain extent true, and if it be true that
they are willing to sell out, and the majority
of women are not, we may expect that a better
class of people will be chosen by their vote;
instead of saloon corporations controling in
great cities like New York, the moral citizens
would desire an honest government, and women
would desire their sons and husbands to hold
office and labor for the good of the people;
but to day when we find that to hold public
office is almost to be slurred at, we find these
same mothers advising their sons to work in
any place rather than hold a public office.
	This ought to be changed, and instead of feel-
ing that it is a disgrace to hold a public office,
these officers would feel it a credit to occupy
such positions. There is no man that holds
an office in our Church, no matter how much
he may be called upon to sacrifice his own
interest, and his own personal welfare, but
thinks more of discharging the duties of his
office, than of his own worldly gains. The
same thing should apply with reference to
public offices. The reason assigned for taking
away the right of the women to vote, was
because they voted as their husbands told
them. There is no man, but may perhaps
make the statement that other men's wives
can be controlled, but he will never say that
his own could, because they will have their
own way; other men's wives can be controlled
but he knows his own wont.
	Now this is a fact, they will vote as they
please, and they are more discriminating, than
men, and have a moral insight into the charac-
ter of men. The Lord seems to have im-
planted in them the power to read and discern
men. This is illustrated by many a man
being taken in by his fellow man; but it is
very seldom the case with woman, when she
arrives at years of understanding, at that age
when she would be entitled to vote; she can
read the character better than man can, and
with knowledge, that seems to be implanted in
her, I maintain that she is a better person to
vote than man himself. I desire earnestly the
success of this meeting, and seeing that I had
the privilege of speaking first, I will say good
day; and take the privilege of reading what
may follow in your meeting. I shall be pleased
to meet with you at any time, and mingle my
voice in encouraging the movement in which
you are engaged. I wish you abundant suc-
cess in this and in every other good labor.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards. Mrs. President, ladies:
When our President said that she expected a
speech from our delegate, she made me tremble;
because I did not think any one expected a
speech from me to-day; I was merely to give a
report. We left here on Sunday evening and
arrived in Washington on Thursday evening,
giving me Friday and Saturday to visit the
ladies there before the convention convened.
	Mrs. Caine was out of the city when I arrived,
so I called upon Miss Anthony, who was very
busy and had left word that she would not be
able to see any one, but she received me very
kindly. She said that Mrs. Wells had written
of our organization, and she was very much
pleased indeed. She sympthizes with us, and
was glad that we had taken this step.

[Column 2]

	I paid our dues, which made us an auxiliary
to the National Woman's Suffrage Association.
Although the programme had been made out,
she said that we should have an opportunity of
being heard. We had ten minutes to speak
in, and I asked for fourteen; it was granted,
that just gave me time to read what I had
prepared. We were received very kinkly.
	Mrs. Caine and I called upon many ladies,
and had pleasant chats with them. They pro-
tested against the suffrage being taken away
from us, and they assured us that we could
reckon upon their vote were there anything to
call them this year. We attended all the
sessions during the week, with the exception
of one. We were very much pleased and in-
terested in the convention.
	When Mr. Grant was speaking to-day, he
spoke with just as much spirit and feeling as
he would at any other meeting. This is an
evidence to me that it is right for us to meet
and claim our rights. This question of union
which perhaps most of you know of, the Ameri-
can Association, headquarters in Boston, was
discussed asking a union with the National
Suffrage Association, it was considered but not
decided upon. We received a letter from the
Chairman of the Executive Committee asking
our opinion as to this union; she is not in favor
of the union herself, I do not know how Mrs.
Stanton feels in regard to it, but the great
majority were for the union. We stated that our
organization was recent, and had not had time to
think and consult about the subject. I under-
stand that we are to have a meeting about con-
ference time, and that would be a good time to
bring that subject up. I remained after the
convention was over, waiting to have company
home. I called on the wives of some of the
Senators and Representatives, and the wives
of the Justices of the Supreme Court. I had
very pleasant chats.
	Mrs. Ingalls, wife of the President of the
Senate, invited us to a reception which she
gave, and we thought it quite an honor. I
don't know but what my ten minutes is up. I
have nothing more to say. I am pleased to
think we are organized, and that as many of
us feel like meeting together.
	And if we don't feel personally that we need
the franchise, that our exercising it will not
help, we know the world is full of suffering
women who have no rights at all, who can
scarcely get a living, and no man would ever
be asked to work for what they do. Poverty
shows us that women too should have their
rights. They carry the greatest burden in
life and ought to have all the privileges that
belong to them. I know I never neglected to
vote while I had the privilege, and I can say
here that my husband never has dictated as to
how I should vote. I have never seen any-
thing that was unbecoming at the polls.
	It may be necessary in some places to restrict
them from coming within fifty feet of the polls,
nothing of this kind has been done here that I
know of. I was glad to return home after the con-
vention was over, and would have come alone,
but my husband was called home as you all
know, and I was glad to have company. I
should not even have stopped to the Inaugural
Ball had I had the opportunity.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor. Mrs. President and friends:
The position which I occupy this afternoon, is
a new and very strange one to me. I therefore
crave your sympathy and your forbearance.
Woman her position, her rights, and her cap-
abilities are waiting to be solved. No one con-
tests the right of woman to be a wife or mother,
or denies that she has not the right to
beautifying her home. Why not grant her
the right to shine in politics and in the nation?
She is a citizen of the commonwealth and is
amenable to its laws. If she commits crime,
she has to answer for that, she must be punished
as her brother man.

[Column 3]

	If she has property, she must pay taxes;
this is taxation without representation, and
was one of the great causes which led to the
Revolutionary war. I have never heard of
women being denied the many rights that are
hers, but she may yet demand other privileges
that she has been denied, and yet she certainly
has the right to vote. The right of franchise
has been given even to the foreigners, those
who come to our shores, often the very scum
and outcasts of society in the countries from
which they come. And even the illiterate and
degraded negro has been given the right of
suffrage. I say shame upon the nation, shame
upon the governors and lawmakers who can
make and enact and carry out such laws, when
they deny the right to the mothers, their pure
and intelligent mothers, wives and daughters.
	I have never heard any one doubt the right
of woman to earn her own livelihood, and to
work—even to drudge for the care of children
and support those whom God has given her to
care for; and yet I have known of her being
deprived of the same compensation as man
where she has performed the service equally
well; she is denied that which she has earned,
years ago, a few noble women organized to assert
merely because she is a woman. Some forty
and work for equal rights, they have done a
noble work, and they are not discouraged
although they have not attained that which they
have set out for, a perfect franchisement.
	Mrs. Dr. Pratt. Mrs. President, Ladies: I
have been very much interested in what I have
heard to-day, especially in the report from our
delegate and her trip east. I have always felt
thoroughly satisfied that all that the world
needed to receive us, and have a great deal of
respect for us, would be to be well abquainted
with us. And as this acquaintance is increas-
ing, visitors are coming continually in our
midst, and we are brought more in contact
with the world, I feel they will get acquainted
with us, and that our friends will far out weigh
all prejudices against us; I am very glad the
time has come when we shall be a part of this
great political move among women.
	Why women are not acknowledged power
of the body politic, I can never understand,
except in this way, that it always has been
man's course to assume unto himself all the
emoluments and privileges and powers. And
they act out in politics as they do in anything
else, that what is his, is his own, and a wife
is part of his property.
	There is no where in this world, say as much
as they can against the Mormons, where women
have as much liberty, and have it as freely
granted as here in Utah. When we thoroughly
understand what is meant by the political
economy, we still more are in wonder why
women are not considered a worthy factor in
carrying out this economy. It means the
safety, peace and preservation of the govern-
ment. Now then, women of course, as far as
safety in concerned, will have more power from
its internal arrangement than she will in pro-
tecting the country from outside invaders. It
is not necessary for woman, to have her full
rights, that she shall be a soldier, that she
shall be on the police force, or that she shall
fill positions that are unwomanly.
	Meeting adjourned for one month.
		CORNELIA H. CLAYTON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


You may depend upon it that he is a good
man whose intimate friends are all good, and
whose enemies are characters decidedly bad.—
Lavater.
	People will, in a great degree and not with-
out reason, form their opinions of you upon
that which they have of your friends; and
there is a Spanish proverb which says justly,
"Tell me with whom you live, and I will tell 
you who you are."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SONGS OF THE HEARTH RUG.

[THE DISGUSTED WIFE TO HER HUSBAND.]

You promised to leave off your smoking
The day I consented to wed;
How little I thought you were joking,
How fondly believed what you said.

But, alas, how completely you sold me,
With blandishments artful and vain;
When you emptied your snuff box and told me,
You never would fill it again.

Those fumes so oppressive, from puffing
Say, what is the solace that flows;
And whence the enjoyment of stuffing
A parcel of dust in your nose.	
By the habits you thus are pursuing,
There can be no pleasure conferred;
How irrational, then, is so doing,
Now is not very absurd.

Cigars cost you ten cents each, nearly
And ten cents an ounce for your snuff,
Consider how much then, you yearly
Must waste in that horrible stuff.

Why the sums in tobacco you spend—love,
The wealth in your snuff box you sink;
Would procure me of dresses no end—love,
And keep me in gloves; only think.

What's worse, for your person I tremble,
'Tis going as fast as it can;
Oh! how should you like to resemble
A smoky and snuffy old man.

Then resign, at the call of affection,
The habits I cannot endure; 
Or you'll spoil both your nose and complexion,
And ruin your teeth, I am sure.

	M. A. YOULTON GREENHALGH.


[column 1]

AWAKENING OF SPRING.

	"When rosy plumelets tuft the larch,
	And rarely pipes the mounted thrush;
	Or underneath the barren bush
	Flits by the sea-blue bird of March."

	The long, long winter is over, or in common
parlance, the first spring mouth is upon us, 
and though now and then the air is cold and
raw, and the light fleecy snow falls occasionally,
beautifying the landscape for a transitory
moment, yet we cannot but see that spring de
facto is about to pay us her annual visit.
Soon we shall have the sprightly, coy, artless
maiden whom we designate Spring, peeping
out from sunny nooks and corners with her
trailing garlands of green, and gladsome shin-
ing face, though now and then bedewed with
jeweled teardrops, yet all the more beautiful,
with the pleasing contrast of sunshine and
shade; and anon, with positive assurance of
her real designs, she will burst forth in fairy-
like beauty to gladden the universe. She is
heralded with the sweetest orchestra, to me, the
most finished music, surpassing the composition
of the finest masters. The trilling and quaver-
ing of the forest birds, never ceases to be won-
derful to the lover of nature. These songs of
the birds, and other evidences of springtime,
convey to us more than the reality—there is
something indefinable when we try to express
it in words, but of which we are quietly con-
scious within—for want of a better term, the
world declares it poetical sentiment, and as
such I accept it; knowing no more than the
rest of mankind how to define it.
	It is an inexpressible charm of sense and
sound, an exhilaration imparted to the soul, by
the sympathy of many unseen forces, and by
the languid softening of the air, lengthening
of the days, and the thousand beautiful things
that make their appearance in such a marvel
ous manner, through an unseen effort of our
mother earth, so joyful when these inanimate

[column 2]

beings spring to life, that the effect of this re-
newal is everywhere apparent, although vary-
ing in its intensity. One in intimate associa-
tion with the woods and fields, finds much
pleasure, poetry if you will, in the first indica-
tions of the bursting of the green leaf on the
bare bough. At this particular season of the
year, the young hemlock is artistically beauti-
ful, "lying almost flat upon the ground," like
a heavy carpet, richer in its designs than the
most elaborate patterns of the skillful manu-
facturer.
	There are many varieties of tree and leafy
shrub that are exceedingly beautiful when
bursting into leaf, and each of these might
form a separate subject. The graceful long
leaved willows that fringe the brooklets on the
river's edge; although superstitiously sugges-
tive of melancholy and traditional as funereal in
aspect and bearing, yet, in the poetic mind, are
associated even "sweetly and cheerfully;" for
instance, Tennyson to the "Lady of Shallott:"

	"Willows whiten, aspens quiver,
	Little breezes dusk and shiver
	Through the waves that run for ever,
	By the island in the river
		Flowing down to Camelot."

	The simple word willow to me is poetry,
musical and melodious.

	"Sing willow, willow, willow,
	Sing all a green willow, must be my garland."

Desdemona says:

		"My mother had a maid called Barbara;
	She was in love, and he she loved proved mad,
		And did forsake her, she had a song of willow;
		An old thing 'twas, but it expressed her fortune,
			And she died singing it."

	These little snatches of quaint songs, per-
petuate the tradition, and it may be that poets
love to be melancholy or are imbued with a
tinge of sadness which renders them happier.
Is this paradoxical? This sentiment is one of
the things of which words do not convey the
whole meaning.
	The reed is another of these sad and musical
plants and by its long peculiar leaves is said
to suggest the idea of inditing, which endears
it all the more to the heart of the poet. At
this season of the year, the reeds are a pale,
exquisitely tasteful yellow, and as the soft, cool
wind sways and bends them hither and thither,
they make pathetic music which is intensely
"sweet, but sad." Keats expresses this fanciful
sentiment concerning the reeds fancifully, and
it accords with the strain in which I am writ-
ing.

	*	*	*	how did we weep to find
	Naught but a lonely sighing of the wind
	Along the reedy stream, a half-heard strain;
	Full of sweet desolation, balmy pain."

	N. P. Willis gives a truly poetical definition
of the reed and the willow:

	"The reeds bent down the stream,
	The willow leaves, whose flowers the water
	Like a gentle nurse bears on its bosom,
	Quietly gave way, and leaned
	In graceful attitudes to rest."

	The reed is often used as illustrative of
weakness; always ready to bow beneath every
breath of authority, yielding and submissive,
as some of the "lords of creation" who are
compared to sturdy oaks, desire women to be.
But as I am not moralizing, I will refrain from
giving my views on this point.
	In some countries there are many flowers
that make their appearance early in the season.
In England, among wild flowers, the yellow
daffodils bloom in March; and this pretty blos-
som is a favorite flower with some of the poets
well known to fame. Wordsworth speaks
gracefully in verse of the floral splendor of the
daffodils haunting him, he says, "They flash

[Column 3]

upon him in the bliss of solitude," and
Herrick thus laments their too early disappear-
ance:

		"Fair daffodils, we weep to see
		You waste away so soon;
	And yet the early rising sun
		Has not attained its noon;
			Stay, stay
	Until the hasting day
			Has run
		But to the even song.
	And having prayed together, we
		Wlli go with you along."

	And O, the violets of spring! who does
not love them? Modest, dainty and fragrant.
Who does not appreciate their lovely sweet-
ness? The perfume is wafted to my senses
from far off years; or, as one writer has beauti-
fully expressed it, "like far-off reminiscenses
of youth." The approach of spring speaks
tenderly to me of lovely flowers and hanging
vines, of the sweet music of song-birds, and
glad hum of bees, of gay butterflies, of young
lambs skipping and calves bleating, and all
these are most welcome to one whose heart is
in sympathy with the pulse of nature. And
while admiring all these, the works of a Su-
preme Being, let us look up and adore the great
Creator, not only of that which we see, but of
the soul by which we sense and enjoy them.
Like the psalmist of old, one might well ex-
claim at this season, "Let the heavens rejoice,
and let the earth be  glad.  Let the field be joy-
ful and all that is therein; then shall all the
trees of the wood rejoice."
		AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"John Ward, Preacher," has been "pirated"
in London. The authorized English edition
is published by Messrs. Longman & Co.
	The Michigan Legislature has passed a
bill allowing women to vote for and hold the
office of school inspector in Detroit.
	Miss Sanger, President Harrison's typewriter,
is said to be the first woman ever employed at
the White House in a clerical capacity.
	The Empress of Russia has given nearly
$50.000 to St Petersburg Hospital as a thank
offering for her escape from the recent rail-
road accident.
	Mrs. Gould, wife of the Unitarian minister
in Ministee, Mich., conducted  the services
morning and evening, on Sunday, recently,
during the absence of Prof. Gould.
	Mrs. Louisa Reed Stowell, teacher of micro-
scopical botany at the University of Michigan,
has been appointed special miscroscopic artist
of the botanical department at Washington.
	At the banquet of the Cornell freshmen, on
the eve of Washington's birthday, the young
women of the class were present for the first time.
The supper was so successful that this precedent
will probably be followed henceforward.
	The right of women to practise medicine
in Canada has been established by the suc-
cessful application of Miss Mitchell, a grad-
uate of Queens University, Kingston, for a
license. The Provincial Medical Board at
Quebec granted the license.
	It is a comfort to find a will like that of
John Mattocks, of Chicago, who left $60.000
his entire property, "absolutely and forever"
to his wife. There are several children, but
Mr. Mattocks evidently felt that his wife should
hold the same relation to the property that
he had held, and that she would not fail to
be just to the children. Neither would most
other mothers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	-	 Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,                                 APRIL 1, 1889.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The Fifty-ninth Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, will
commence at 10 o’clock on Saturday morning,
April 6th, 1889, in the Tabernacle, in Salt Lake
City.
	The officers and members of the Church are
cordially invited to attend.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
			In behalf of the Twelve Apostles.


[Column One]

UTAH WOMEN MISREPRESENTED.

	In The Woman's Journal of March 9th, 1889,
(a very ably edited paper published in Boston,
Mass.) in an article on suffrage entitled “Known
By Its Fruits” and signed H. B. B., we find the
following paragraph concerning Utah.
	“Utah gave woman suffrage in 1869. It proved
satisfactory both to the women and men of that
Territory. For eighteen years the women voted
as uniformly and as generally as the men.
Being Mormons they voted the Mormon ticket
like the men. Because they so voted they have
been disfranchised by Congress, in order to
lessen the Mormon power. But Utah cannot be
fairly cited either way, because every Mormon,
man or woman, is under a religious obligation to
vote “according to counsel.” Mormon suffrage
is a mere form. It is cast as a unit under the
order of the Church authorities, and does not rep-
resent any free individual choice whatever.”
	If we were not as a people, so accustomed to
misrepresentation, it would be astonishing, after
all that has been said recently in Congress and in
the Conventions of women concerning suffrage
here, to see a report of this kind coming as it
does from a man who ought to be rightly posted
on this question of woman suffrage in Utah and
all the other Territories or States. 
	Utah is not to be cited, either way because
“every Mormon man or woman is under a
religious obligation to vote according to counsel.”
Now as the women of Utah are the party of the
first part of this paragraph of H. B. B’s, because
it is woman’s suffrage to which he alludes,we will
speak from knowledge, personal and general on
this matter. We live in Utah and ought to know
better than Boston or New York people about
woman suffrage in the Territory of Utah, though
we cannot at the present time go into details, but
simply state over again, what has often been
asserted of late—that Mormon women voted with
the same freedom as Gentile women; each voted
for those they considered the best man to repre-
sent the people in the offices they were selected to
fill. Some Gentile women voted the “Peoples’
Party Ticket," so we have been informed on
good authority; that is we presume, the ticket

[Column Two]

H. B. B. would denominate the Mormon ticket;
the majority of Gentile women voted what is
known here as the “Liberal” ticket. Those were
the two political parties here at the time women
voted—since then there has been a Democratic
Party formed, and in all probility some women
would have voted on that ticket had the franchise
still been in their hands.
	We fail to see why suffrage, “cannot be fairly
cited either way,” here as elsewhere. In the
Territory women voted for all elective officers.
even for the Delegate to Congress, the women of
the Peoples’ Party for the candidate whose name
was on their ticket, the Liberals for their candi-
date in the same way.
	How that differs from other people's voting,
will H. B. B. have the kindness to consider ?
It is supposable that they vote for the men of
their choice, so did the women of Utah. When
H. B. B. talks about voting, “according to coun-
sel,” he speaks not from knowledge but from
hearsay. Lillie Devereux Blake, writes to The
Woman's Journal of conditions in Utah, having
paid a visit here last year, of a few days, but not
meeting Mormon women in public or in private,
to ascertain from them concerning a matter which
they must necessarily understand better than
lookers-on, especially those blinded by preujdice.
When one goes to Boston and wants to know
what woman suffrage is doing in that city, or
state, they go to the office of the woman’s paper
and to the representative women of that move-
ment, and not to the opposition, nor to the women
who sit in ease and indifference; they could not
give correct information; but when people come to
Utah they profess to know all about Mormon
women without ever seeing or talking with them;
and are prepared to lecture on Mormonism, and to
call them ignorant, degraded, and low; slaves to
the men. etc. etc.
	It is cruel and unjust to publish such notices.
Mormon women have as much love of liberty and
of country as other women, and are as much a
part of the great body politic. They have rights
too that ought to be respected and considered;
and never was there an act of greater injustice
perpetrated than the arbitrary act of Congress in
taking away the franchise from the women of this
Territory, Mormon, Jew and Gentile.
	What an outcry would be made by all the
woman suffragists if the women of Wyoming were
to have their franchise taken—but it is all right
for Utah, because they “vote according to coun-
sel.” Would that all the women of the United
States would vote according to their best convic-
tions as Mormon women did, when they enjoyed
the privilege; if they would and had a full and
complete suffrage extended to them, a great re-
formation would soon take place in all the de-
partments at Washington, and spread thence over
all this free and glorious country. Many other
motives animate voters beside the highest good
of the largest number; and it is a well known
fact that men’s votes are often bought for whiskey
and for other commodities perhaps less injurious.
Employers of men engaged in various pursuits
influence, if they do not actually control the
votes of those employed by them; they know
their support depends upon it, the bread and
butter for the children perhaps.
	In Utah the ballot is secret, so that one may
vote as he wishes, without any one knowing or
suspecting how his vote is cast, and this one fact
alone should be a correction of what H. B. B.
has said in the article referred to. “Mormon
suffrage" the writer says “is mere form;” does he
not know, has it not been frequently declared that
civil and ecclesiastical affairs in Utah are as much
separate and apart as anywhere else in the world,
and that no man holds a civil office because of his
position in the Church. Men of  influence,
honesty and integrity here as elsewhere are
selected to fill places of honor and of trust. Are

[Column Three]

not these the men who should occupy public
offices?	
	We hope H. B. B. will acceept this xplanation of
his article and believe that Mormon women under-
stand the condition of the suffrage in Utah better
than those at a distance. Also that they are well
aware of the fact that if it were in the power of
Mormon men, to grant suffrage to all women
they would not have to ask twice.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

     THERE will be a General Conference of the
Relief Society held sometime during April Annual
Conference; it is hoped and expected there will
be representative women from all the Stakes of
Zion present, and no doubt much needed instruc-
tion will be given.  Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, will
preside.
     C. W. PENROSE, Editor of the Deseret News,
is again at home after an absence of over four
years.  We rejoice to see him again in his accus-
tomed places, and to hear his voice in the public
assemblies of the Saints.  The WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT should extend cordial greeting to Elder
Penrose if only on account of his strong and able
advocacy of the woman question.
     ON the fifth of March ult., Mr. and Mrs. Wm.
S. Clark, of Orange, Mass., celebrated the fiftieth
anniversary of their marriage.  It is seldom that
husband and wife live together so uninterruptedly,
as they have done.  No very great sorrow has
come to them, and their lives have glided even and
smoothly along.  Truly might it be said, "Their
lines were cast in pleasant places."  Out of the
seventy-five guests assembled at the Golden Wed-
ding, there were three only who were present on
the fifth of March, 1839, two sisters and a brother
of the bride.  Many handsome and costly golden
gifts were received, some of them sent from long
distances.  Poems too, that had been written ex-
pressly for them, sent from Idaho and Kansas
(the one from Idaho we published in our last
issue) were read during the evening.  Music,
speeches, toasts and reminiscences of other days,
with delicious refreshments were the luxuries in-
dulged in, and everything went merrily as at the
former wedding, when both were "young and
charming."  Their years sit lightly on them in
the quiet of their New England village home, with
their children and children's children around
them.  May peace, prosperity, and contentment
also continue through their remaining years.  Mrs.
Clark is the sister of the writer, who remembers
every detail of the wedding in the old home, fifty
long years ago; when the large family of boys
and girls were all together, those now remaining are
scattered far and wide, but we are sure all join in
loving wishes for the bride and bridegroom of fifty
years ago, still faithful and true to the vows
plighted in the long ago, and journeying on together
through life's highways and by-ways, hand in 
hand and hearts in love united.


FAREWELL PARTY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
     On the nineteenth of February, the Teachers
of the Relief Society of Santaquin, and a few
others met in the school house for the purpose of
showing their respect to Sister Sarah Jane Halli-
day, (wife of Bishop George Halliday), who has
been called away, in connection with her hus-
band to American Fork.  She has been a faith-
ful teacher in the Relief Society of this ward; and 
in waiting upon the sick, she was always on hand,
we shall all regret losing one that has been so
good.  
     After all were seated, a short address, and a few
appropriate lines were read by the Secretary of 
the Relief Society.  Sister Halliday was then


presented with a neat purse containing money
which was donated by the sisters.
     She responded in a very impressive manner,
thanking the sisters for their kindness towards 
her, followed by her husband, who made a short
and affecting speech, thanking them all for their
kindness towards his wife; exhorting all to be
true to their religion, live united, and have charity
for each other.  Closed by asking God's blessing
to rest upon all. 
     Our newly appointed bishop, Brother Eli Open-
shaw, made some very appropriate remarks,
touching upon the excellent qualities of Sister
Halliday, and the good she had done in our com-
munity.  Brother J. C. Stickney also spoke of the
loss we would sustain, in parting with Sister
Halliday, and asked the Lord to bless her in her
new home.  President E. J. Stickney of the Re-
lief Society; Counselor Wall, Bettie Boss, presi-
dent of the teachers, and Counselor Ann J.
Stickney, made a few encouraging remarks.
Each one expressing regret in parting with Sister
Halliday. 
     All joined in wishing her a pleasant journey,
and health and happiness in her new home.
			     NETTIE TIETJEN, Secretary.
Santaquin, March 17th, 1889.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.]
SEVIER COUNTY W. S. A.

     In response to a call which was made by in-
fluential women of Sevier County, a number of
suffragists, ladies from different parts of the
county, met in the Richfield Relief Society Hall,
Thursday, March 14, 1889.
     Mrs. Elizabeth Bean stated that we had met
together to organize a Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion for Sevier County.  She then called for a 
nomination for a chairman of the meeting.
     Mrs. Celia E. Bean, nominated Mrs. Merinda
Halliday as chairman, which was seconded by
several ladies, and was carried.
     The Chairman then asked for nomination for a 
secretary; Mrs. Caroline Morrison then nomin-
ated Miss Sarah Gardner, as secretary of the
meeting; seconded by Mrs. Ina Bean.  Carried.
     Singing by the choir, "America."
     Mrs. Dorcas Farnsworth offered the opening
prayer.
     The Chairman then gave a synopsis of the call;
the ladies then proceeded to organize the Asso-
ciation; Mrs. Elizabeth Bean nominated Mrs. 
Celia E. Bean,  President; seconded by a number 
of ladies.  Carried.
     The Chairman then asked for a nomination of
three Vice-Presidents; Mrs. Ina Bean nominated
Mrs. Louisiana Heppler, as First Vice-President;
Miss Aggie Gardner nominated Mrs. Caroline
Sylvester, Second Vice-president; Mrs. S. J.
Spencer nominated Mrs. Thurza Thurber, Third
Vice-President, seconded and carried.
     Mrs. C. E. Bean nominated Miss Flora D.
Bean, Secretary of the Association; seconded
and carried.  Mrs. Dorcas Farnsworth nominated
Miss Allice Hoyt, Corresponding Secretary;
seconded and carried.
     Mrs. Thurza Thurber nominated Mrs. Maria
Hansen, Treasurer; seconded and carried. Miss
Aggie Gardner, was elected Chairman of Execu-
tive Committee, and the names of Mrs. Henrietta
Wright, Mrs. I. F. Bean, Mrs. Minnie A. Nebeker
and Mrs. Caroline Morrison, were presented as
members of Executive Committee, and were sus-
tained by vote.
     Mrs. Celia E. Bean, moved that the Committee
on By-Laws be appointed by the Chairman.
Carried.  Mrs. Lola M. Farnsworth, Mrs. M. Seeg-
miller and Mrs. Emma Spafford, were accordingly
appointed and sustained.  The committee then
retired.  During their absence a very interesting
speech on "Woman Suffrage" was given by Mrs.

[column 2]
C. E. Bean.  By request of the Chairman, Hon.
Wm. H. Seegmiller addressed the audience.
"The Rights of Women;" the subject received
its due analysis.  The Secretary read the Con-
stitution of "The National Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation."  Mrs. Elizabeth Bean moved that the
Constitution be adopted.  Seconded and carried.
By request of the Chairman, Mrs. Louisiana
Heppler addressed the audience; her remarks
were truly worthy of the highest commendation.
The Committee on By-Laws having returned, the
Chairman of the Committee, Mrs. L. M. Farns-
worth, read the By-Laws and Regulations.  Mrs.
Elizabeth Bean moved that they be read, and
voted upon separately.
     The Secretary then proceeded to read them.
Mrs. Celia E. Bean moved that the labors of the
Committee on By-Laws be accepted and the Com-
mittee excused.  Seconded and carried.  The
following is a copy of the By-Laws and Regula-
tions.

ARTICLE I.
     This Association shall be called the Woman
Suffrage Association, of Sevier County, Utah.
ARTICLE II.
     The object of the Association shall be to work
for the enfranchisement of all women, without re-
gard to party, sect, or creed, and to take such
steps as shall seem to be wise and expedient for
the political advancement of this county.
ARTICLE III.
     The officers of this Association shall be a Presi-
dent, three Vice-Presidents, a Secretary, Corres-
ponding Secretary, and Treasurer, with an Exe-
cutive Committee of not less than five.
ARTICLE IV.
     All persons wishing to become members of this
Association, must pay an initiation fee of twenty-
five cents annually, and must give their names
with the money to the Secretary, who will present
them in the order of business, to the next regular
meeting for admission.
ARTICLE V.
     The officers of this Association, with the Execu-
tive Committee, shall have power to change or
amend the By-Laws and Regulations at any exe-
cutive session, and shall then submit them to the
regular meeting, where they may be adopted by
a majority vote.
ARTICLE VI.
     The Executive Committee shall devise plans of
work suited to the development and progress of
members of the Association, and co-operate
together with the members in encouraging young
people to speak, write essays, and discuss ques-
tions upon political matters, and such other sub-
jects as relate thereto, and invite those already
interested in suffrage, and encourage them to
become acquainted with the objects of the organi-
zation.
ARTICLE VII.
     All official papers and documents shall be
signed by the President and Secretary, or, in the
absence of the President, by the Vice-President
next in order.  And all official correspondence
must be signed by the Chairman of the Executive
Committee, and the Corresponding Secretary.
ARTICLE VIII.
     Regular meetings of the Association shall be
held once a month, and such business transacted
as shall be brought to the attention of the meet-
ing by the Executive Committee, or other officers,
after which miscellaneous business, or discussion
will be in order.
ARTICLE IX.
     A punctual attendence of the members is re-
quested in order to further the interests and pro-
mote harmony in all plans and methods of or-
ganized work.
     After the adoption of the By-Laws and Regu-
lations, Mrs. Elizabeth Bean expressed in fitting
terms, her ideas in regard to the Association.
     Mrs. H. Wright moved that an account of the or-

[column 3]
ganization be published in the Richfield Advocate.
Carried.  The ladies came forward and were en-
rolled members of the Association.
     An adjournment was moved and seconded, and
meeting was adjourned until an appointment
should be published by the Secretary.
							E. B. BEAN.
Richfield, March 20th, 1889.


J. EDWARD PFEIFFER.
		    ————
	Through the Woman's Journal and other
papers we have learned of the death of Jurgen
Edward Pfeiffer.  The gentleman had been in
ill health for the last two years, although his
friends had good hopes of his recovery.  The
papers speak of him as a man of “remarkable
energy and promptitude” in business and in all
his transactions in life.  His success in mer-
cantile affairs was largely due to these qualities
of his character.  Mr. Pfeiffer was a German,
a native of Altona—but went to England when
a young man, nineteen years of age; the papers
state that not long after he went to England
“he was made executor of his father’s will, and
voluntarily gave up his own share in that
testament to the advantage of his relations
resolved to owe everything to his own exer-
tions."  He created the China branch in a
great London house, and has amassed an im-
mense fortune.
	The home of Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer as des-
cribed by them to the present writer was a most
delightful place, and one could almost fancy it
from their own description to be a perfect
model of an English gentleman’s home.  Miss
Alice Stone Blackwell, of the Woman’s Journal
describes it just as we had pictured it in our
own mind. “A glimpse of fairy land—the
great quiet garden, with its nicely kept Eng-
lish turf, the long green walks, the delicately
contrasted foliage of the shrubbery, the multi-
tude of roses, and the row of huge aspen trees,
their trunks overgrown with ivy and looking
like massive pillars.  Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer
had themselves laid out this garden, originally
rough waste ground over which they rode on
horseback.” Their visit to the United States
was in 1884, and they visited this city in Octo-
ber—called at the office of the WOMAN'S 
EXPONENT on the 20th, we accompanied them
to the Lion House and other places, introduced
them to Sister Eliza and others.  The next day
they dined at the Gardo House by invitation
of President Taylor—and spent the evening of
the 22d at our home, a few friends having
been invited to meet them.
	Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer is a writer and poet of
considerable celebrity writes for the Contem-
porary Review and other standard English
journals, she is a staunch woman suffragist,
and has written some very excellent articles on
the subject.  She handles the matter differently
from most of the advocates of the cause, and
gives it some literary prestige.  Her article in
the Contemporary Review of February, 1881,
entitled “Woman’s Claim,” is one of the best
if not the best essay on the question of equal-
ity of the sexes we have ever heard.  That
our readers may have some idea of its merits,
we will quote one or two paragraphs.
	“A great deal has been said, and still being
said, about the alteration of the relations of
the sexes, which might be expected to result
from any extension of the franchise in the
manner demanded.  I own I find it difficult to
respond to these fears with becoming serious-
ness.  If there be one thing of which Nature
is careful, she is careful of her types, and while
that “likeness in unlikeness,” subsists which is
at the base of physical attraction, there is
little fear of sexual relations being either 
reversed or annulled.  So long as the maternal
function continues tenderly to fashion the
hearts of women, so long as the voices of
men retain their resonance, and until their


bodies lose their superior power of action and
endurance, and their capacity for food and
sleep, so long will there be little doubt that the
saying of our neighbor, “La barbe impose” will
remain substantially correct.  These quasi-
material causes might be out of place, where
abstract justice answered to a rigid logic, but
in this world of incalculable movements of
checks and counter-checks, they present them-
selves as something more than the “windage”
for which in all reasoning we are bound to
allow.  It would seem that the alarmists
above mentioned are reckoning without that
great primal force which binds together man
and woman and for which the higher develope-
ments are forover forging stronger if more
spiritual links.  I would bid them take cour-
age in remembering the comparative stability
of the operations of nature, judged by the
shortness of the days of man; in any case, to
plant a quiet hope in the largeness of these
grants of time demanded for the changes she
is supposed to effect.”
     After elaborating still further upon this
subject in the most effective style of reasoning
and referring to the time “when physical force
ruled the world,” etc., and a woman who had no
man to marry her was forced to seek the refuge
of the cloister,” and dwelling upon the condi-
tions of the sexes under those circumstances,
she says: “But now a day has come when if
the “seven women” of the prophet would not
“take hold on one man” some of them must
be resigned to belong to themselves, and pre-
pared to stand up and fight the battle of life
alone.”
*	*	*	* “The rate-paying, law-abiding
property-holding, professional, or working
woman is suffered to have no voice in the regu-
lation of the taxes, or the laws under which
she must live or die; and if they would influ-
ence them at all, they must have recourse to
the nearest man—possibly her brother, coach-
man or gardener, or the laborer in her fields—
as the stalking horse of her own unrecognized
personality.”
     She then treats eloquently the state of de-
pendent tutelage of woman etc., and quotes
from Shakespeare:

	"There is a divinity which shapes our ends,"

and reasons further thus: "Had it so continued
that every woman in these Isles could have
“dropped into the jaws” of some one man and
so “ceased” its a social unit, it is highly prob-
able that no word would have been heard
among us of any further suffrage."
      "But the stream of tendency which sets in
the way of woman's advance is irresistible, and
the vital rational principles incorporated in her
claim, could in the end win alone in the
struggle with material resistance."

			"The soul of things is strong;
	A seedling's heaving heart has moved a stone."

	"The march of civilization is one sure, if slow,
progression from the ruleof the strongest to the
equal right devine, and it will not stop short of
its legitimate end."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
BEAVER STAKE.
	The Beaver Stake Relief Society conference
was held on Friday, March 1st, in the Latter-
day Saints meeting house, Beaver City, fore-
noon and afternoon.
	President Lucinda Howd presided.  There
were present representatives from the various
wards, Sister Ellen Lunt, stake president of
Relief Society of Iron County; President
Murdock and Counselors; Bishop Smith and 
other brethern, and quite a good showing of
the sisters. 

[Column 2]
	The verbal reports from the different presi-
dents showed a fair condition of each society.
A good work had been done the past winter in 
caring for the poor and sick. 	
	The great burden of the instructions from 
the different speakers was the training of our
children.  They should be taught to pray, and
that we have a prayer hearing God.  Teach
them faith in every principle of the Gospel,
and see that they keep good company.
	The necessity of progression, of humility
and dependence upon the Lord was dwelt upon.
The great mission of the sisters, and the many
good works they had performed were referred
to:
	Sister Lunt bore her testimong to the truth
of this work and the divinity of Celestial
Marriage.  Said she knew it would exalt every
man and woman who had entered into it with
pure hearts and had kept their covenants.
She also spoke of the good influence we should
carry with us, and gave some interesting re-
miniscences of her early life. 
	Brother Fotheringham spoke of the wheat
and tares growing together and the day of 
separation that is to come.  Said we would have
to be purified as gold seven times tried in the 
fire.  Referred to the trials and persecutions
we are undergoing, and said there were some
of the greatest heroines living now, that had
been upon the earth.  The speaker expressed
his pleasure in seeing and hearing President
Woodruff and Apostle Cannon speak to the 
people the previous Sunday in Salt Lake, and
thought the cloud that had been hanging over
the people so long, had lifted a little so we 
could get a glinpse of its silver lining. 
	The Stake and local officers of the Relief
Society were unanimously sustained.  The
choir sang "Glory to God on High" and bene-
diction pronounced by Robert Stoney, closed 
what had been a very enjoyable conference,
although not as numerously attended as others
which have been held in this Stake. 
	A spirit of peace and union prevailed dur-
ing the conference, and all who attended felt 
to rejoice. 
					LOUISA JONES,
			Stake Secretary, Relief Society.
UTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Utah Stake 
was held in the meeting house Provo City,
March 1st, 1889.  Prest. Mary John presiding.
	Conference opened with singing and prayer;
reading of minutes etc., and reports from the 
different branches in the county.
	President Mary John thought we had con-
siderable to encourage us.  "Although it looks
rather gloomy at present, there is a good time
coming for the Saints."  Referred to the signs
of the times etc.
	Counselor Emily G. Cluff thought we should
all concentrate our thoughts in prayer that the
speakers may say something that will edify and
instruct.  Spoke of the similitude of our ex-
periences to that of our Savior while on this 
earth; reviewed our coming into these valleys,
and of the love existing among us as a people
at that time.  "We are and have been perse-
cuted, but if we are humble and prayerful we
will succeed; we should each have a testimony
of the truth for ourselves," etc.
	The presidents of the different branches
gave very satisfactory reports of those over 
whom they were called to preside.  Conference
adjourned till 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session.  Conference opened with
the usual exercises.  Sister Marilla M. Daniels
said:  "I want to bear my testimony to the 
truth of this work; if we live up to the light
we have received we will come off victorious.
We are to be perfected through suffering like 
our Savior, he never shrank from suffering al-
though he sweat great drops of blood.  We

[Column 3]
gain the good spirit by coming to meeting, and
we are stirred up to remembrance by so doing."
Spoke of the Primary and urged parents to
send their children to those meetings, their
boys as well as their girls.
	Sister Standring gave a good report of the 
Lehi Society and said:  "I realize that it is
through the goodness of God that we exist."
Spoke of laboring in the Manti Temple and of
the power of God manifested therein.  "I
know that God lives, and if we draw nigh unto
Him, He will draw nigh unto us."  Felt that 
the Lord was with us by his Holy Spirit to-
day; when we hear sisters bear their testimonies
to the truth of this work, we know they are in
the pathway of their duties.  We are passing
through a school of experience, and if we are
faithful we have the promise of returning to 
our Father's presence again to dwell with Him
for evermore.  We are called to great responsi-
bilities and shall have to render an account
for what has been placed upon us; let the
kingdom of God be first in our thoughts; the
power of God is gained through knowledge;
the Savior has passed through what we are pass
ing through;  This kingdom will never be
thrown down and we will be made to rejoice.
Let us keep our covenants that we may receive
the words "well done good and faithful ser-
vant."
	Brother Allred, by invitation of President
John, spoke to the sisters.  Said he felt blessed
in meeting with the sisters; but if he should
attempt to refer to the good things that had 
been said, he would have to repeat all that he
had heard for it had been a stream of good
things springing up unto everlasting life;
endorsed what had been said in reference to
sending our children to the Primary meetings;
thought it the duty of parents not only to send
their children but to go with them occasionally
themselves.  Knew the Lord would be well
pleased if we would obey "the word of wisdom."
The Lord is trying to unite us for He has
said: "if ye are not one ye are not mine" etc.
	Anna K. Smoot followed with some truly
appropriate remarks on various subjects, after
which Prest. John adjourned the conference for
three months.  She felt the spirit of God had 
been with us through this conference etc.
Benediction by Brother Graves.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake was held in the Four-
teenth Ward assembly rooms, in this City,
Thursday, March 4, 1889, Mrs. M. I. Horne
presiding.  On the platform were also seated
President Zina D. H. Young, Counselor, B. W.
Smith and the Stake secretary.  Conference
opened by singing "Once more we come before
our God," prayer by Mrs. E. Howard; sing-
ing, "Where the voice of friendship's heard."
Roll called and seventeen Presidents eight
Counselors, and two Secretaries responded.
Minutes of the previous conference were read
and accepted, also reports from 42 branches of
this Stake.
	President Zina D. H. Young was the first
speaker, she made many excellent suggestions
in regard to the various duties of the society,
and spoke especially about the storing of
wheat; thought the integrity and good works 
of the sisters a matter of rejoicing. 
	President Horne read a letter from an Elder
in England soliciting means for a distressed
family in Rainham England, her native town;
she asked the sisters to help in this matter.
She spoke of her visit to the penitentiary the
day previous, to see her son, Bishop Joseph
Horne, who was there suffering imprisonment
for conscience sake.  Made other remarks
appropriate to the occasion.
	Counselor B. W. Smith spoke of the en-


couraging reports that had been received, and
that she would like all who could afford it to
pay one dollar yearly toward the Deseret
Hospital. “President Taylor in his lifetime
enjoined it upon us to sustain this institution,”
said all is well in Zion if we try with all our
might mind and strength to do right.
	President Horne referred to the Stake
Conference held recently and said “If we have
the spirit of God we will rejoice that we have
passed through adversity and come out safe,
having oil in our lamps; the Lord takes notice
of our works, all we do is recorded in the Book
of Life.” Singing, Doxology. Benediction
by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session. Opened with singing
“Our God we raise to Thee,” prayer by Mrs.
Mary S. Clark; singing, “For the strength of
the hills we bless Thee.” President Horne
then addressed the sisters on very interesting
topics, and was followed by the presidents of
the Relief Society of Riverton, South Jordan,
Draper, Big Cotton Wood, Sandy, Union,
Herriman and Brighton. Mrs. Mary L. Clark
of Farmington, Mrs. Mary E. Porter of
Granger, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze President of
the Y. L. M. I. A., Mrs. M. A. Mousley of
Bluffdale, Mrs. Susan S. Young each spoke a
short time, giving some incidents and experi-
ences, and bearing strong testimonies to the
truth of the Gospel; their remarks were re-
plete with good instructions and exhortation
to good works.
	President Horne read over again the letter
from England and a free donation of fifty
dollars was given by the sisters present.
	Mrs. Z. D. H. Young spoke of kindness and
wisdom, the storing of wheat, and home manu-
facture; urged all to be self sustaining; hoped
to see efforts made in the silk manufacture,
the raising of cocoons, etc.; thought it would
be a great source of wealth in this community.
Desired the sisters might walk in the light of
the Gospel continually and obtain favor with
Heaven.
	Counselor B. W. Smith spoke of the necessity
of a true testimony and that we should teach
our children to observe the golden rule, to
do to others as we wish them to do to us.
Alluded to the coming of the Savior and the
preparation necessary; thought we should be 
moderate in all things and set a good example
for others to follow.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
singing, “We thank Thee O God for a Prophet.”
Benediction by Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson.
				E. HOWARD, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMEN’S POLITICAL CLUBS.

	There are a good many women’s clubs in
the city instituted for various purposes, but,
perhaps, the most practical is the Political 
Club, or society for political study, as the
members call it. It started as an auxiliary to
the New York Suffrage League, and although 
they have never separated themselves from the
league, they choose to consider that they are 
no longer an auxiliary. This club meets every 
Tuesday afternoon at the home of Miss 
Thomas, 32 West, Twenty sixth street, and
any lady may become a member by paying 50
cents a year. The object of the club is to
teach women how to talk—an art in which
they need no instruction, some misogynist
would say. But it is to teach them parliamen-
tary rules, how to speak in public and to pre- 
pare them for the rights of suffrage, by giving
them instruction in various matters with which
every voter should be familiar. The city gov 
ernment was the first topic dealt with, after
that the different administrations were studied,
and for the last four weeks the ladies have
been handling the subject of finance.—New
York Star.


LETTER FROM SAMOA.
AUNUII, SAMOAN ISLANDS,
	Sunday, January 21st, 1889.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I received your interesting and ever welcome
papers of September and October, and can
truthfully say that I took more real pleasure
in reading the contents of the same, than I
ever experiened in reading the most interesting
book; allow me to thank you very much for
your kindness.
	I once heard a young missionary say, that
while on his mission, news, or in fact anything
from home, afforded him much pleasure and
was of great interest to him.
	We often realize that feeling where we are;
opening a new mission, far from our beauti-
ful mountain home, our dear relatives and
friends, among an uncivilized people; still we
have much to be thankful for; we are meeting
with success in our field of labor, the harvest
seems ripe, and it fills our hearts with joy and
satisfaction to find it so. Although at present
we are not doing as much as might be expected;
on account of the country being in a revolution-
ary state, and the fact that, as yet, we have
not mastered the language.
	We hope, that before long, the governmental
affairs of these islands will be in a more settled
condition; so that the minds of the people will
be open to receive something besides, “wars
and rumors of war.”
	We have a nice frame house built American
style, it is the only one of that style on this
island. The native houses are built with an
oval roof, supported by posts about four feet
apart. The space between the floor and roof,
which is from four to five feet, is left open, ex-
cept in case of storm. At such times shutters,
made of matting tied to the roof, can be let
down instantly around the entire house. The
floor consists of coral pebbles, covered with
mats. There is never but one room in a house;
small ropes are stretched across the room, a
little higher than one’s head; over which is a 
"siapo" or native cloth. This is rolled up in
the morning, and let down in the evening,
forming sleeping apartments, and at the same
time protecting the sleeper from the mosquitoes,
which are very numerous at all times, in this
warm climate.
	These people are not a progressive people,
the hot climate naturally causes them to lead
a lazy, indolent life; and as their daily food
grows without much labor, and their clothing
costs very little [because there is very little of
it] they do not have to do much manual labor.
	The Christian ministers have been working
among this people some fifty years, so we are
informed. Of course they have done consider-
able good, in their way; but the Lord, through
his servants, has to do the work over again,
because it was not done properly. By-the-by
a member of the London Missionary Society—
Mr. Clark—called to see us soon after our
arrival. He inquired if we expected to organize
a branch of our Church here. We answered
that we assuredly did, that we had traveled
over five thousand miles for that purpose. He
replied, and I have come over ten thousand
miles to stop you. Outside of his religious
views Mr. C--- seems quite a gentleman.
	This is the place where women are respected,
and have their rights. The men gather the
fuel, make the fires, cook all the food, and set
it out for their wives. In fact, the women do
very little but braid mats and fans, at which
they are experts. A few days ago, one of the
Samoan men told us that American men were
no good, they were bad for letting their wives
do the cooking. We told him the American
man had to work all day to get something  for
their wives to cook and wear. He became
quite indignant and said, Samoan men work
[Column 2]
too, still they do the cooking. We told him
he slept most of the day. They work from
about sun rise until eleven a. m., then sleep
until the cool of the evening. There are
many sick and we are kept quite busy admin-
istering to their wants, and relieving them of
their pain as much as possible. We find that
patience is a virtue, that it is good under all
circumstances, and as disciples of a patient
Savior, we strive to cultivate it. We find
this people kind hearted, but very childish,
and we have to exercise great patience with
them. I hope I have not wearied you, I realize
that I cannot put my thoughts together as
nicely as some; but we all have to make a 
beginning. 
				LOUIE CALDER LEE.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Mary Louise Booth, editor of Harper’s
Bazar, died at her residence, No. 101 Fifty-
ninth Street, New York, on the 5th inst, at 5
p.m. The immediate cause of her death was
pleurisy and obstruction of the lungs.
	Miss Booth was born April 19, 1831, at
Millville, now Yaphank, on the east end of
Long Island, where six generations earlier her
ancestor, John Booth, bought Shelter Island
from the Indians for 100 yards of calico. Her
father was a school teacher, and she acquired
under his care a remarkably fine education,
being one of the best French scholars in the
country. She did not remember learning to
speak or read French. She had read through
the Bible and Plutarch’s “Lives” before she
was five, mastered Racine in the original when
she was seven, and began to study Latin with
her father. She obtained her early education
at the district school, of which her father was
the teacher; afterward she passed through
several academies and seminaries of Long
Island. In 1844, her father removed to
Williamsburg, now East Brooklyn, as principal
of a public school. She became a teacher, but
her health failed and she relinquished the
position. She contributed tales and sketches
to various journals and magazines. While
yet in her teens she compiled "The Marble
Workers' Manual" and "The Clockmakers'
Manual"—books of a dry, masculine type, still
regarded as standard works. She rendered
rapidly into English the works of Eugene
Sue, Mery, Cousin, Marmier, Dumas and
Edmond About. While scarcely more than a
girl, she wrote the history of New York, in
two volumes, eliciting from Washington Irving
a letter of warm encouragement. A new edi-
tion appeared in 1880.
	During the Rebellion she did notable service
for the Union by translating works of noted
foreigners. In 1861 she got the advance sheets
of Gasparin's "Uprising of a Great People."
and rushed to Scribner's. "Yes," said the
astute caterer, "but the war will be over in a
month, and we can't get it out as soon as that."
She persisted. “If you will give me the copy
in a week, I’ll try it,” he said. She went
home, worked twenty hours out of every
twenty-four; in less than a week the copy was
all in hand, and in a fortnight the work was
out. It made a tremendous sensation, and did
much to rouse the North. Sumner and Lincoln
sent her letters of thanks. Thus she was en-
listed for the fight. She translated the works
of Cochin, Laboulaye, Martin, Comte du Mon-
talembert, Dupanloup, etc., from advance
sheets, which those authors sent to her.
Sumner wrote that Cochin’s words were "more
valuable to the cause than the Numidian
cavalry to Hannibal." She translated Labou-
laye's "Fairy Tales," and fifteen or twenty
other volumes, and when the Harpers started
their Bazar, in 1867, she naturally became its
editor. She devoted herself with character-


istic energy and industry to the condu t of
that journal, and it was due largely to her
efforts that it became an immediate and con-
tinued success. In business matters she was
keenly direct and business like, but in society
she was singularly graceful and winning, and
her Saturday evening reunions were always
attended by people prominent in the literary
world. Her amiable and illustrious character
and career will be to other women an inspira-
tion and a prophecy.—Woman's Journal.
		H. B. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ERNESTINE ROSE.

	This celebrated woman of whom we have
heard so much and known so little, is still
living in England, and the Woman's Penuy
Paper published there, recently gave a very
interesting account of her, from which we
make a few brief extracts. This venerable
champion of the cause of woman's emancipa-
tion, certainly deserves the gratitude and
honor of the women of America, for the
noble efforts she has made in behalf of better
laws and better conditions
	"Ernestine Rose was born in 1810, and thus
is now seventy-eight years old. Her great
life work is over, and she is waiting, in suffer-
ing and infirmity, to be buried in England
by the side of her husband who died six years
ago.
	" 'Our lives were as one,' she said; 'he re-
joiced in my work, and gladly furnished the
means for my journeys and lectures.' And
then she showed me his portrait, which was
hanging near her chair. I ventured to inquire
what had led her in her youth to think of
the emancipation of woman, for I knew she
was the daughter of a Jewish Rabbi living
in Poland, and I wondered how her light had
come to her.
	" 'At an early age,' she began reading the
Hebrew Scriptures, and met with difficulties
of belief at every step; when she requested
explanations, she was told, 'little girls must
not ask questions,' she could not see why 'a
little girl' should not have the same right as a
little boy to ask questions."
	Sixty years ago she began lecturing, and
has "spoken all over the States in behalf of
human rights in general, and woman's rights
in particular." "Although very infirm in body,
her face bears the stamp of noble and vigorous
intellect. Her features have strength and
dignity, and her large dark eyes seem to have
lost little of their fire."
	"The life of this wonderful woman is full
of interest. At the age of fourteen she re-
nounced her belief in the Bible, as it had
been interpreted to her by Rabbinical teachers,
and the religion of her father, and this caused
her great trouble and persecution. At the
age of sixteen she lost her mother. A year
after she was involved in a law suit, in which
she pleaded her own cause and won it; but
left the property with her father, declaring
that she cared nothing for it, but only for jus-
tice. and that her inheritance might not fall
into mercenary hands. She then traveled in
various countries in Europe, witnessing and
taking part in important affairs. She came
to England, made the acquaintance of Robert
Owen, and warmly espoused his principles.
In 1836 she married William E. Rose, and
went with him to reside in New York. Soon
after her arrival she began her fifty years
of reform work, speaking for anti-slavery,
religious liberty and woman's rights. She
sent her first petition to the New York Legis-
lature to give married women the right to
hold property in 1836, to which after a great
deal of trouble, she obtained five signatures!
And she continued petitioning till 1849, when
the law was enacted. Many times she ad-

[Column 2]

dressed the New York Legislature, a privilege
of American women which we do not yet enjoy
here. In spite of hardships and expense
(for she never made a charge or took a collec-
tion) she traveled in summer and winter, in
highways and byways, whenever there was an
opportunity to work, and always bad good
audiences and attentive listners. In America
she is ranked with Frances Wright, Harriet
Martineau and Lucretia Mott; American women
say they cannot estimate how much of the free-
dom they now enjoy they owe to this Polish woman
'Those who sat with her on the platform will
remember her matchless powers as a speaker,
and how safe they all felt while she had the
floor, that neither in manner, sentiment, argu-
ment nor repartee, would she in any way com-
promise the dignity of the occasion. As a
speaker she was pointed, logical and impas-
sioned. She not only dealt in abstract prin-
ciples clearly, but in their application touched
the deepest emotions of the human soul.'
	"One of her strongest characteristics was
the fearlessness and scorn of compromise with
which she advocated her principles."


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Argument, as usually managed, is the worst
sort of conversation; as it is generally, in books,
the worst sort of reading.—Swift.
	The shortest and surest way to live with
honor in the world, is to be in reality what we
would appear to be; and if we observe, we shall
find that all humane virtues increase and
strengthen themselves by the practice and ex-
perience of them.—Socrates.
	We put a halo about the people of the past,
but I think if the times demanded them it
would be found we have now living in the year
1889, fifty Martin Luthers, fifty George Wash-
ingtons, fifty Lady Huntingtons, fifty Elizabeth
Frys.—Talmage.
	I never had any faith in luck at all, except
that I believe good luck will carry a man over
a ditch if he jumps well, and will put a bit of
bacon into his pot if he looks after his garden
and keeps a pig. Luck generally comes to
those who look after it; and my notion is, it
taps once in a life-time, at every one's door,
but if industry does not open it, away it goes.
—Spurgeon.


OBITUARY.

	Died, in Oak Creek, February 27th, 1889, Elizabeth
Lovell, wife of the late John Lovell, born in England,
March 10th, 1806.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	We, the sisters of the Relief Society unanimously adopt
the following Resolutions to the memory of Sister Elizabeth
Lovell.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst by the hand of death, our beloved sister
and friend; therefore be it,
	Resolved, that we recognize in the death of our sister,
the loss of a friend, and former treasurer of the Relief
Society.
	Resolved, That we esteem her goodness, patience and
uncomplaining endurance, as an example worthy of imita-
tion by the sisters of the Society.
	Resolved, that these Resolutions be spread on the
record of the Relief Society, and that we condole with
those called to mourn the loss of as good and kind a
friend as Sister Lowell.

	Rest in peace, dear Sister Lovell,
		Now your earthly labor's done
	You can join in sweet communion
		With the Father and the Son,
	You are worthy of their presence
		For you lived a noble life,
	Kind and faithful as a mother
		Ever faithful as a wife.

			MARY M. LYMAN, Secretary, R. S.


Training School for Nurses

     On the fifteenth of May, the Second Term of Dr.
Hughes' Training School for Nurses begins, a class
 of twelve (12) students completing their first term of
three months on the fourth of May. This is the
first Training School for Nurses established in
Utah, and the instruction given embraces the best
methods of teaching of the Eastern Schools, whose
systems have been thoroughly investigated by the
teacher. The purpose of this school is to give a
wider knowledge of waiting upon the sick, and all
the branches pertaining to nursing will be thorough-
ly discussed in the successive terms. The second
term will be held in Dr. Hughes' new residence, on
First West Street. Students desiring to enter, should 
make application as early as possible, so that ar- 
rangements can be made for securing text books. 
	TUITION,       -	  -         -   $25.00.
     Special arrangements can be made for Obstetrical
teaching. Address: 
M. P. Hughes,
P. O. Box 575.                               Salt Lake City, Utah.

WANTED.
Gentlemen and Ladies of good address and 
education to enter a commercial business,
where promotion and salary at three dollars 
per day is guaranteed, small security required
"or bonds," Address for further particulars,
		M. GLASSFORD,
			354 E. Brigham Street,
				Salt Lake City, Utah. 

     DRS. SHIPP'S
Class in Obstetrics and Nursing.
     DRS. E. R. and M. C. SHIPP
     Will commence another class in OBSTETRICS,
on Monday, April 15th, 1889. By request they
will also teach a separate class for Nurses.
     For particulars apply to Dr. E. R. Shipp, 16
Main Street, or Maggie C. Shipp, 30 South First
West Street. 

R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY. 
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
   Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	         112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

     DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
      Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
      Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

