VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1888.	NO. 14.


[Column 1]

THE WEDDING OF THE KING.

O'er all the earth the human tribes waged warfare, man to
	man,
Like fires that sweep the praries wild, their ruthless passion
	ran.
O, not alone the Heathen's hate, spurned mercy, fear or
	right,
Their Christian brothers led the way like lions in their might.
Earth's mighty trees bore on their trunks the wounds of
	shot and shell,
And dainty flowers and waters clear, the blood stain bore
	as well.
Beside his tent, upon his bow and spear, the dark man
	slept,
And sleepless watch, beside the wall, the white faced sentry
	kept.
And women's songs were turned to tears beside their
	children's bed,
Too often, prayer was hushed, to hear the flames hiss o'er
	their heads.
Ah, nowhere on the earth might these find hours of peace
	again,
Since war had loosed her hounds in hordes, o'er mountain,
	forest, plain.
As though aghast at deeds of men, the skies hung dark and
	low,
Nor answered to the wind and rain, the once bright, glorious
	bow.
All nature seemed at variance with her established laws,
And earthquake's terrors broke between the tempest's fitful
	pause.
Now lurid gleamed through heavy clouds the lightning's
	vivid flame,
And in the once blue arch above, strange signs of nature
	came.
The heavy seas far inland rolled their waves of gloom and
	death,
And farther backward rose in clouds the plauge's black,
	poison breath.

O, all the hearts of men grew sick, at last, with deeds of sin,
And bowed in fear before the power that mocked their souls
	within:
Their puny wrath that laid in wreck the work of ages old.
Lay prone before the Mightier, that man could not control
Then came the time of penitence, and hope of death to
	some,
While others still their Maker mocked, or in despair were
	dumb.

Yet, far away in mountain vales one kingdom stood alone,
From ev'ry land they gathered there around its steadfast
	throne.
Lo! peace and plenty blessed their land, firm faith their
	spirits thrilled;
There the distressed found in their midst, justice and love
	fulfilled.
In ministrations diligent they stood a noble band,
And watched unshrinking through the storm, the Father's
	guardian hand.

There came at last to weary earth a time of rest once more,
Like the blest ease that comes to man when fever's work is
	o'er;
A partial peace like that which rests in homes where one
	has died,
For suffering ended. Ah, this hush of hearts on every side
Yet slowly strength and peace returned, the lonely cry was
	stilled,
And myriad souls looked up to learn the way the Father
	willed.

The skies once more shone bright and clear, yet, in their
	endless blue,
Came wondrous signs that Saints adored, and knew their
	portent true.
The wandering winds strayed idly by, as troubadours of old
For love of all things beautiful, in blissful pleasure strolled;

[Column 2]

Rains that refreshed the thirsty earth, fell soft as evening
	dew,
And snows that cloaked the mountains old, no icy coldness
	knew.
The bright winged creatures dreamily went lilting all along,
The flowers were fairer, and more sweet, each creature's
	voice and song.

The humbled tribes of every land their loyal homage brought
And came, to gaze of wondering men, the Lost Tribes
	vainly sought.
One message blest, reached every heart and ruled in every
	land,
The Gospel's high and kingly power prevailed on every
	hand.
O, earth in peace and beauty drest, ne'er was so bright be-
	fore,
Since human ills and nature's frowns were ended and no
	more.

There came a day, a lovelier than man remembered yet,
When gathered in fraternal love His chosen children met.
A glorious tower, not built by hands, reached up from earth
	to sky,
Its summit hid in fleecy clouds that veiled it from the eye.
Long waited there the faithful band in silence and in prayer,
Till flesh was weary; then a sound of music rent the air.
Quick raised each eye to whence it came, when through
	the riven blue,
The flash of golden instruments burst on the watcher's
	view.
Those golden harps! their thrilling strings spoke to the
	trembling soul,
Those golden trumpets! loud and clear, they swelled above
	the whole;
The blest musicians, as they stood in trailing robes of
	white,
The raptured singers—lifting up their faces' pearly light;
They led adown a winding stair from tower's height to base,
A wondrous, radiant pageant of heavenly power and grace.
Behind their white feet followed One, most glorious to view,
Celestial beauty in His form, yet gentlest movement too;
Those eyes that read all human thought and blessed each
	trembling soul,
O, every heart bowed down within in ecstacy untold!

Then followed still a solemn throng in even step and time,
And chanted in one chorus grand a hymn of joy sublime.
They stepped upon the rude, brown earth, the throng below
	joined in,
And followed to a Temple's door, where all was light
	within.
The clasp and kiss of parted souls united once again,
The riven veil twixt life and death, twixt Zion's past and
	then!
For rusted chains that martyr's wore, their golden crowns
	were wrought.
For women's tears o'er martyrs shed, lo, priceless pearls
	were brought.
O, that was wondrous joy, indeed; too vast for human
	tongue,
And through it all, in harmony, the glorious words they
	sung!

Around the table gathered all, the Church above, below;
The marriage supper oft foretold by prophets long ago.
There was no light of moon or sun, or golden censers
	bright—
There was no need—the Bridegroom was their living life and
	light.
No gate was closed, for only they whose right it was came
	in,
There was no danger and no tears, for all were pure from
	sin.
They who had suffered for His sake drank wine with Him
	again;
Lo, earth was free, her Lord was here, her King, the
	Prince of men.

		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Contributor Prize Poem


THE CHRISTMAS TREE.

	What a busy, noisy day it has been; storm
and sleet outside, so that all had to stay within,
and the sweet little ones have romped and
danced about in the noisiest, prettiest way, and
now night has come on, and the pretty golden
heads are resting on the snowy pillows, and the
house is still; no sound but the gentle, quiet
breathing of the children, the occasional wail
of the wind, as he sweeps around the house
corners and the soft dropping of the filmy
snow. I sit and gaze in the dying fire, and
fancied pictures come and go among the glow-
ing coals. How near to Christmas it is; only a
few more days, and oh, how different from the
Christmas's of other years. I dream, as the
coals gleam and drop, of the long ago, and
sweet visions of loved, lost faces pass before
me; days of joy and days of sorrow blending
bright and sober colors appear, as twilight with
its grey and golden tints. Wandering thoughts
and vaguest dreams circling round among the
embers seem to center now.
	A dozen years or more have passed, and be-
fore me is a vision of the happiest, gayest
Christmas all the years have ever brought.
How joyous we were that night, all the loved
ones there, and we sang and laughed and
talked of merry things, and the little ones
danced around and begged for stories of Christ-
mas cheer, scarcely dreaming how the hours
sped, until the old clock tolled the twelve
ominous strokes, and then the church bells be-
gan to ring their merry Christmas's to the
people all around; the hour, the auspicious
hour, when older folks bid each other good
cheer, when the youth try first to call out
"Christmas Gift," and the little ones see visions
of Santa Claus riding over the house tops
driving those gay reindeers with his sleigh
heaped full of pretty things. Hark, did you
not hear his bells? and now they have stopped,
stopped, right at our door; can it possibly be
that he is coming here, and we all awake to see
him? Certain there is a knock, oh, so loud,
pray do let him in? How they laugh, those
older ones, and the little ones, half in fear, half
admiration, and all expectancy, hover near the
mothers, while this great, white-bearded, snow-
covered man walks proudly in, as though all
belonged to him, and never halts until the cor-
ner of the room is reached, where, for two
long days a mysterious curtain has hung, and
now, to the magic touch of this Northern king, 
it drops, and lo ! the tree, the bright, glimmering
Christmas Tree. Oh, how our hearts leap and
our voices shout! What a happy, lovely sight !
The pretty colored lights, the gaily dressed
dolls, the boys drums and sleds, the banners
and balls and ribbons and trains, and oh, did
ever any one such a sight before behold ! Quiet,
now ye have gazed awhile on that smiling,
glimmering, dazzling tree, now hear what Santa
Claus has to say. He must hasten, there are
so many such to uncover to-night, and he
must speed away, but he tarries awhile to un-
loose a few of the gifts from the tree.
	First, our sweet little invalid, with her beau-
tiful golden curls and thoughtful eyes, yes, she
little precious heart, her pretty gift must have;
then rollicking, noisy Onie, that the rest may
hear themselves think; then dreamy, brown-
eyed Belle, that she may wake long enough to
see what Christmas has brought her; and now
our dear singing boy, whose cunning songs
have so cheered us to-night, and so on until


each little heart is made happy and light.
Then the older ones receive attention, and all
are served, and the wonderful man, with his
snowy coat and funny voice, bids us all "good
morning, and a merry Christmas."
	He is gone, gone! the door is closed, and the
jingle of the bells tells he is on his way to other
homes. A comparing of the pretty things, a
little more joking and laughing, some music,
a Christmas carol from our beautiful Louise,
and the little one's eyes grow dim, and peaceful
sleep embraces them, while some one enters
now, not a great white man, but a beautiful,
laughing girl, calling Christmas gift to all
around, and flitting from one to another with
her bright, cheery words. Who is she, this
lovely girl, who carries light into the room as
the waxen candles are fading. who brings such
joy to our hearts on this cold Christmas morn-
ing? It was our Santa Claus, but now it is
only Our Em. What matter that our brother
had to go out in the cold unwrapped. while she
had purloined his big rough coat and covered
it with cotton and spangles; what matter that
the bells were missing when the sleigh had
to be used; what matter that the lights went
out in the hall just when the children were
romping there; it is all plain enough now, and
the happy hour with Santa Claus atones for
every inconvenience, and the bright hour with
the past to-night, atones for the rainy, dismal
day.
	She is gone now, our Em, and others as
dearly loved have joined her, and it is only at
times like these, when we can draw a curtain
over the present and gaze into the glowing
coals and fancy pictures there, that "the tender
grace of a day that is dead" can ever be re-
called.
	Annie W. [-]annon CAMELIA.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE CHILDREN'S CHRISTMAS.

	All the children are on tiptoe with expectancy
just before Christmas time. What would
Christmas be in fact if it were not for the chil-
dren? It seems as though Christmas was
CHILDREN'S DAY and so it ought to be, for it
it is celebrated in honor of the most royal
babe that was ever born upon the earth.
Our blessed Savior, whose coming was heralded
by hosts of angels singing and a new star
arose in the east, and there was great rejoicing
in heaven as well as upon the earth, when the
heavenly choirs joined in the anthem that
ushered in the new born king.
	And so at Christmas time it is customary to
rejoice in the day set apart as the anniversary
of his birth, and there is great reason for joy
and gladness. The children should be happy,
even if they do not have so many beautiful
things, and so much to eat.
	The children are overflowing with exuberance
now-a days when Christmas comes round
there is so much merriment and festivity, and
they have more than a good time; in fact, it is
impossible to express in words the gladness that
beams in their radiant faces. I wonder some-
times if they really ever do stop to think of all
the pleasures that are planned for them. If I
had plenty of leisure, I'll tell you what I
would do for the children at Christmas. I
would have a children's party; not a fancy
ball, nor a dinner party either, but a story
party; and I would gather as many of the
little folks as my house would hold, and sit
down in their midst and tell them stories, and
they should be real stories; and I should feel
fully repaid with the sparkle of the bright
eyes, and the pleasure it would be to them.
In fact I think perhaps they have too many
toys and gay dresses, and sweetmeats, and sim-
ple tales well told would be a nice change, and
then they would keep so quiet, and listen, in-
stead of making such an uproarious noise as

[Column 2]

they often do with drums and trumpets and all
manner of toys, until mamma and papa and
grandma are tempted to wish that Santa Claus
would never come again.
	I have been waiting and looking for some
one to send me a story for the children this
Christmas, but I have decided at last that the
best way to do, is to depend upon one's self, but
I'll tell you what I think the reason is, there
are so many dolls to dress and pies and pud-
dings to make, and turkeys and chickens to
be roasted, and so many stockings to darn and
buttons to sew on, and dear little stockings to
hang up in the corner; and then you know
there are so many story books to buy, that I
guess the ladies who write for the EXPONENT
think it is not necessary. I know the children
like the stories they hear better than those they
read, and that is the reason I would like to
tell one, better than to write it, yet, if I had
not put it off so long I would write a story
myself, but may be it would be a sad one, be-
cause I know of many little ones, they call
them foundlings, who have no nice home, no
big sisters to dress their dolls, nor not even a
mamma or grandma, and I've been thinking a
great deal lately about these little darlings and
wondering whether Santa Claus had been told
about these forlorn little ones or not. I saw a
whole house full of them not long ago in a
great city by the seashore, and I thought
then of our little folks here at home, and the
beautiful young mothers, so proud and happy
for their sakes; and the dear grandma's and O,
so many things that I cannot tell you now,
but one thing I will tell you—and it is—that
all these little children want somebody to love
and kiss and caress them, and their little hearts
pine for love, even if they have ever so many
nice things, for love is the best of all; how
cold and dreary this world would be if there
was no love in it. Children cannot be happy
without love and they are entitled to it; it
is their right and legacy, and if Santa Claus
should bring to these motherless waifs, lots of
pretty gifts, they would want the love all the
same; and if we could have more real true
love in the world we would all be happier for
it. Jesus loved little children, He took them
in his arms and blest them, and told His
disciples to be like unto them or they could not
enter the kingdom of heaven. And He will
not forget the motherless ones,and the Heavenly
Father's care will be over them, and our
dear little children in Zion should be not only
happy and joyous, but grateful for the pleasant
homes, kind parents, and the love that fills
their hearts to overflowing, and especially on
Christmas.

	"God rest you, little children,
		Let nothing you affright,	
	For Jesus Christ your Savior 
		Was born this happy night."

	And perhaps I	ought to tell you why I so
love the children, and think so much about
them, and feel so anxious to do something for
them:

	"Because of little death-cold feet for earth's
		Rough roads unmeet,
	I'd journey leagues to save from sin or harm
		Such little feet;
	And count the lowliest service done for them 
		So sacred—sweet!"

	I wanted to tell you a story children, but it is
too late now, and you cannot all come and
listen, so I think I will write one and your
mamma will read it to you after Christmas is
past, and it shall be a true one, even if it makes
you cry, as it does me on Christmas night.
	AUNT EM.


There are now about forty ordained women
ministers in the Universalist Church.


A VETERAN MOTHER. 

	On the 20th of November last, Sister M. 
Isabella Horne reached the alloted age of 
three score and ten, or her seventieth anniver-
sary, which occasion the family had always
intended to celebrate by coming together, and
to make it a time of special rejoicing and fes-
tivity.  But unforeseen circumstances marred
their plans, and on that day the entire family 
was in deep grief; the anxious and devoted 
mother was watching with tender solicitude by
the sick bed of her eldest daughter, who died a 
few days later.  Mrs. Elizabeth H. Webb
died Nov. 27th 1888, at her home in Oasis, 
Millard county, after having endured much
suffering which she bore with great patienceand
fortitude.  A few weeks before she had given 
birth to her sixteenth child.  Her father and
mother were by her in her last moments, also
her husband and children, and if love and
intense devotion could have saved her life, she
would have been spared.  But a wise and loving
Father, who doeth all things well, saw fit to 
call her hence, and it is meet to bow in humble
resignation to the divine will and to say, "The
Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away, blessed
be the name of the Lord."
	Therefore it was a time of mourning, on 
Sister Horne's birthday, and consequently there
was no family gathering except at the solemn
funeral rites afterwards on the 28th.  But the
scriptures says "It is better to go to the house
of mourning than the house of feasting," and
Sister Horne's numerous friends, even those
who did not assemble on the sad occasion to 
express their sympathy, felt deeply for her in 
her unexpected bereavement, and would gladly 
have offered the only consolation possible at 
such a time, that of words of hope and sincere
affection.  But we all know how poor and 
weak language is to express sympathy in sor-
row, and that only the Holy Spirit can give
true comfort.  And while Sister Horne's
friends extend their heartfelt sympathy in her
bereavement they also congratulate her on
having attained the age that entitles her to 
enter the ranks of a veteran mother in Israel, 
with all the honors of a long life of good works
and noble deeds; as well as a numerous poster-
ity, who rise up and call her blessed, her hus-
band also, and he praiseth her.  "Yea verily,
she stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea she
stretcheth forth her hand to the needy."
	Sister Horne's mission since the first organ-
ization of the Relief Society has been an active
one in the field at home and among this people. 
She has acted well her part; has been wise in 
her endeavors to help and to bless, and has not
only been known for her benevolence and 
charity in her own neighborhood and ward, 
but far and wide; and for many years since her
children were grown up and could take the
care and responsibility of household duties
from off her hands, she has given almost her
whole time to the public.  Wherever and
whenever duty called, or an opportunity offered
itself, she has been valiant in the good cause, 
and her name is known and honored through-
out all Israel. 
	The poem published in this issue is indica-
tive of the intense love and appreciation of her
children, written by a dutiful and affectionate
daughter as a tribute to a beloved mother, and 
filial love is always beautiful. 
	During the last year and a half Sister Horne
has travelled thousands of miles, and has had
many excellent opportunities of conversing 
with strangers upon the principles of the Gospel
which she has always improved by seeking to 
allay prejudice and presenting the simple
truth.  That she may live yet many years in 
full enjoyment of all her faculties and continue 
to labor for Zion, until she has accomplished
the fulfillment of her mission in the earth, is 
the wish of the writer. 			E.  B.  W.,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO MY MOTHER,
MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE, ON THE SEVENTIETH
ANNIVERSARY OF HER BIRTH.	

My heart is filled with gratitude and praise
To Him who kindly lengthened out thy days,
That thou might’st live to celebrate on earth,
The Seventieth Anniversary of thy birth.

In life’s long drama thou hast played a part,
Requiring true integrity of heart,		
Wisdom unbounded, courage, strength of mind,
With patience, love and charity combined.

And since, obedient to thy Father’s will,
Thou cam’st to earth a mission to fulfill, 
Hast striven humbly thy life-work to know,
And nobly filled thy mission here below.

Armed with virtue, purity and truth,
Thou passed unscathed the trying scenes of youth,
And entered woman’s realm of usefulness,
A spirit pure, to comfort, cheer and bless.

United, then, to one of sterling worth,
An honest man, a noble son of earth,
A wife’s whole duty thou didst strive to do,  
As faithful helpmeet, and wise counselor, too.

The Gospel plan was then to thee made known,
The way to life and exaltation shown; 
Thy soul rejoiced the heavenly truths to hear,
And faithful proved through each succeeding year.

Though trials came, thy heart with grief to fill,
Thou bow'st in meek submission to His will
Who doeth all things well.  He knows thy heart,
To thee a crown of glory will impart.
But not till charms of motherhood were thine,
Did thy true woman's soul resplendent shine.
Thou art, indeed, with virtues manifold,
A mother, of the purest, truest mould.

With many gems thy mother's crown is set, 
O, may they never cause thee to regret
The years of toil, care, suffering without measure.
Thou hast endured to give them life and pleasure.

And though some jewels rare that thou hast worn,
Hath from thy earthly crown with grief been torn,
They sparkle yet in realms of purity,
And thine shall be through all eternity.

Oh, how can words our loving thoughts express?
They seem so cold, so weak, so meaningless:	
The heart’s affections they cannot reveal, 
The depth of love and gratitude we feel.

May heaven bless thee! angels hover near,
To shield, protect, to comfort, bless and cheer;
May life, health, peace, prosperity be thine, 
And every blessing round thy pathway shine.

And though my heart would other words dictate, 
I will refrain, and humbly dedicate
These simple lines to her who gave me birth,
A loving tribute to a mother’s worth.
								M. H. T.
Nov. 20, 1888.


[column 1]
			  REMINDERS.
	"Let fate do her worst, there are moments of joy,
	Bright dreams of the past, which she cannot destroy,
	Which come in the night time of sorrow and care,
	And bring back the features that joy used to wear."

	One of the best reminders of the good old
days, is holiday week.  It is also a rejuvenator
to young and old.  Everybody expects to be
on their good behavior and to have some little
leisure; to lay aside for the time, as it were, the
every day homely cares of life and take up the
wand of enchantment that turns everything it
touches into joy and gladness.  He who is not
happy, who carries with him some great sorrow
anticipates ministering to the happiness of
others, and in so doing forgets his own grief.
How sublime the self-forgetfulness that many
people exercise on holiday occasions.  I never
could understand why some people dislike holi-
[column 2]
days, for even though we do double duty, it is
of such a pleasant nature, that it buoys one up
instead of depressing the spirit.
	Happy mothers in pleasant homes all over
the broad land, are preparing and arranging
for the Christmas Holidays; every pulse thrills
with joy at the anticipation of the advent of
"Santa Claus," and even in the poorest, hum-
blest homes, there are gladder thoughts at
Christmas time, for there are many benefactors
who remember the needy, and give liberally of
the abundance which it has been their lot to
possess.
	To the children Christmas is a time of feast-
ing and festivity—merry laughter and glad-
some mirth, but to those who have arrived at
the soberer period of life, and who have battled
much with the cold, hard world, it is a sort of
rest by the wayside, where for a little time
they gather-fresh hope, from bright flowers,
woven into memory's garland, that were culled
in the days gone by and linked with the silver
cords of love that thrill through every fibre of
the human heart at the gentlest touch.  Each
one of these giving both pleasure and pain, and
each one having its own peculiar history.

	"When time has past and seasons fled,
	Your hearts will feel like mine,
	And aye, the sang will maist delight
	That minds ye o' lang syne."

	Even the children will stop in the midst of 
their wild delight or noisiest games to listen to
the song, or story of olden times, for there is a 
charm about the old, that fascinates the ear,
and in imagination we draw a picture, we can-
not help it; we think of the stories we have
heard from the beautiful lips now closed in
dreamless sleep, and the very remembrance
stimulates us to so perform our part on like
occasions, that our children and our friend's
children may remember us, as lovingly as we
do those, who gladdened our hearts by their
presence and contributed to our entertainment
in the long ago.  We even recall the very
look, the manner, the dress and aye the tone of
voice of those who were our good angels in
former Christmas days.  We know how the
church was decorated and festooned and how
the great bell pealed forth as it were the an-
thems of gladness.  The evergreens were to us
symbols of that affection, which neither cold
nor heat could ever change, but would always
be fresh and green at whatever season.
	The great wide open fire-places were always
inviting, and the turkey that swung to and fro
on the spicket, growing browner and browner,
is one of the incidents memory has no power to
efface.  "There were giants in those days," as
well as "fairies and elves," and there were those
who fancied ghosts still hovered round, casting
their gloomy shadows over the happiest fire-
sides, and the hobgoblin tales that make the
children's eyes sparkle with delight, have been
handed down from generation to generation,
and are still repeated with the same gusto.
And in those holiday evenings, after the savory
dinner, and dessert of plum puddings, pies,
cakes and fruits, then followed the gathering
in groups around to hold sweet converse.  Al-
most every country house is profusely, if not
artistically, decorated with evergreen in boughs
and vines, and the aroma of the woods is in the
atmosphere of the rooms; one could almost 
imagine himself in an open forest, so odorous
is  the air with these delightful perfumes.  Red
and white winter berries peeping out from
among the evergreens, make a most tasteful
picture.  These are little things, but children
never forget them; they make an impression
upon the mind lasting as life itself, and one
who in childhood has been accustomed to such
scenes and gatherings can shut his eyes any-
where, even in a foreign land, and see the place,
the friends, the details of the room, and almost
hear the merry laughter and the music.  As the
poet has said,
[column 3]
	"It haunts me still, though many a year has fled,
	Like some wild melody."

	I know there are matter-of-fact people who
think the money spent for evergreens or flowers, 
is simply thrown away, when one cannot go
into the woods and gather them free, which is
of course ever so much jollier, and they will fre-
quently remark, it would buy so much meat,
sugar, or some substantial; but on festive oc-
casions, birthdays, or holidays, I would very
much prefer a few flowers, and some wildwood
branches, or tangled vines, to such an elaborate
dinner or repast as is usually served up to
tempt the appetite.  Eating is not one’s whole
object in life; simple fare, with peace and con-
tentment, is more conducive to health and
happiness, and, I might add, a long life as
well.
	Many a time and oft have I strolled through
woods and groves in holiday time, to gather
the woodland trophies of pine, spruce and hem-
lock boughs, and the trailing vines that lie
buried under a mass of dead leaves, and old
moss, when perhaps the snow, too, had covered
them deep, but we heeded it not—we were
youthful and exuberant, the pulse of life was
quick, and we only looked upon it as a part of
the holiday fun—then, turning our faces home-
ward, fancied ourselves wood nymphs, so fan-
tastic would be our appearance among the
boughs and vines, and we would repeat to each
other the most weird and frightful legends we
could recall,—especially the boys, who delighted
in teasing and frightening, if possible, the
timid girls; hiding in hollow logs and springing
out suddenly in lone places, to make us run 
and scream, but all was fair at the holiday
season, and an offence was usually forgiven
with a kiss, for these, you know, are always
plenty, when good humor and merriment
abound.
	Music and dancing are generally a part of
the holiday entertainment, and the old dances, 
such as the Scotch Reel and Sir Roger de
Coverly, are most in favor, but the good old
songs and stories please the children, and we
ransack memory's cabinet where many precious
gems lie hidden 'mid cobwebs and dust, to re-
call the words, once so familiar to our ears.
Tears sparkle in the eye, and great sobs swell
up in our throats, forbidding utterance for a
moment, as we are reminded of the sweet
voices that once mingled in glad chorus with
the happy throng around the hearthstone in
the old, old home.  But life is made up of
sunshine and shade, and "'tis sweet to remem-
ber" e'en though there were some paths thickly
strewn with thorns, yet there were blossoms too,
and the joy was more exquisite by contrast.
	"There's a feeling within us that loves to revert
	To the merry old times that are gone."

	"O, how glorious 'twill be," when we will be
able to sit down and converse with those now
"beyond the gates," and recount the many
scenes, over which "memory loves to linger."
But while here let us enjoy the blessings vouch-
safed by our Father in heaven, not forgetful of
the little courtesies and attentions that are so
charming coming from those we love, and that
give zest to the amusements and festivities
whether in the halls of the rich or the cottages
of the poor.
						     AUNT EM.


The women of Ohio organized a State Coun-
cil at Columbus, October 11, with Dr. Martha
May Howell, of Cleveland, as President, and
Dr. Juliet Monroe Thorp as Secretary.
	In consequence of the death of Dr. Rachel
Bodley, Pundita Ramabai's book is placed in
the hands of the W.T.P.A. Orders should
be sent as follows: To Pundita Ramabai, care
Woman's Temperance Association, 161 La Salle
Street, Chicago.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 15, 1888.


[Column 1]
			CHRISTMAS 1888.
	Christmas is at hand, and the city seems to be
alive with display for the festive occasion. All
around are evidences of the approaching event.
Who would have believed forty years ago, that
such a showing of good things, and of beautiful
things, of all kinds and in every variety could
have been made in these mountain vales. Another
sort of life has dawned upon the people since that
primitive time; plenty has showered in upon the
inhabitants of Zion, or one would naturally think
so, if they walked abroad at mid-day and gazed
about; and at night the place is resplendent with
lights, that show off to advantage the gaily dressed
and decorated shop windows. One can scarcely
decide what to buy, there is so much to choose
from. Truly the Lord has comforted Zion with
the good things of the earth, and prosperity
abounds on every hand; none need go hungry or
destitute within all her borders, for the system of
organization is so perfect that it reaches every
individual. And the Saints delight in giving
liberally of the abundance with which the Lord
has blessed them.
	There are some circumstances one could wish
were otherwise; for instance, many of the good
brethren are in prison for conscience' sake, and
that will cast a gloom over the home, where the
husband and father is absent on this account, but
even this is better than being a free man at the
sacrifice of principle; and there is comfort in the
thought that one is suffering for keeping a higher
law, rather than for disobeying a commandment
of God, as many are in this Christian land, that
boasts of its high civilization and enlightenment.
	It is good to have such occasions as these to
warm up the heart and awaken a fresh interest in
the welfare of others. It keeps one from growing
selfish, to be, as it were, constrained now and then
to stop in the midst of care and a press of busi-
ness to take a little respite, and enter into the joys
of his own household, perchance, and partake of
the good cheer, that is so plentiful whenever holi-
day time comes round. The custom of giving at
this season is one that heightens much the enjoy-
ment of Christmas. There is assuredly more
blessing in giving than in receiving, and the giver
is always rewarded in the sweet consciousness of
having performed a noble act, and it is something
that abides in the heart forever, and will always
be a pleasant remembrance. The satisfaction of
carrying joy to a human soul by a noble action, or
a gift wisely bestowed without ostentation, is
precious indeed. It is not so much the value of
an offering as it is the good taste of the giver in
selecting, and the delicacy with which it is given.
The manner is often more than the matter. The
days of adversity through which many of this peo-
ple have passed ought to have been useful lessons
to them in this regard. It is good to know how
[Column 2]
to feel for others, and the best way to know is by
passing through similar experiences. And after
all none have passed through the severe
ordeals that the Savior endured whose advent
upon earth the people celebrate at Christmas
time. He could feel for the destitute and the
wretched, for He knew the most intense suffering.
One learns by what he suffers, and in this way
understands how to appreciate the condition of
others.
	These are good times for Zion, even if severe
tests have come; it is the time of proving, and to
those who can endure the reward will be sure.
Therefore, one cannot help feeling it is a good
time, and while there is prosperity and plenty,
and health and strength, and seed time and har-
vest, there is no occasion to murmur or rebel at
the dispensations of a kind Providence. The
nations of the earth are in His hands, and as
rivers of water He turneth them whithersoever
He will, and whether Harrison or Cleveland sit
in the White House, or Democrats or Republi-
cans have a majority in Congress, it will matter
very little to this people, so they keep the com-
mandments of God and the testimony of the truth
of the Gospel; Zion will come off victorious. The
eventful year 1888 is fast closing; great things
were anticipated by many during the year that
has now almost passed; perhaps too much was
expected, for grown people are very like children,
and when the reality comes it does not always
satisfy expectancy.
	What the new year just about to dawn upon the
world will bring no one can determine, but at any
rate the Latter-day work will roll on despite all hu-
man opposition.


[column 1]
		COMPLICATED CASES.

	The confiscation of Church property under the
Edmunds law of 1887, has been the cause of more
anxiety, seemingly, to the outside element here in
Utah, than to the interested parties themselves.
The "Church Suits," so called, have been argued
in the Utah Courts, and have been appealed to the
Supreme Court of the United States. Since the
appeal was made, questions have arisen here in
regard to the the compensation of the Receiver
(Marshal Dyer), and the fees of the lawyers em-
ployed in the cases. The parties representing
the interests of the schools of Utah, to which,
according to the provisions of the Edmunds law,
the property thus confiscated will finally be de-
voted, are greatly exercised over the exorbitant
fees and compensation of those who have been
handling, or holding the Church property in trust
until the final adjustment of the case.
	These parties have demanded of Marshal Dyer
the Receiver, an explanation of the whole affair,
and have brought the case before the Commission-
er's court, and it has been laid over to be submit-
ted to the Territorial Court, which meets in
January next. Meantime the Receiver has filed
his answer to Judge Zane, who has charge of the
affair in the interest of schools, and takes issue
with the Judge on all material points named.
What the result of this controversy will be it is
not easy to determine, but it is very clear they are
after the "spoils."
	Now comes Senator Edmunds to the front
again, with a resolution from the judiciary com-
mittee of the Senate of the United States, "call-
ing on the Attorney General for information con-
cerning the execution of the act of March 3, 1887,
in reference to bigamy, and also to report the
names of all United States officers, who had any
connection with such execution, in what capacity
and what compensation had been received by
them. He explained that the act declared for-
feited the property of the Church of Latter-day
Saints; that it was stated, the judges in Utah had
appointed the marshal of that territory, receiver of
[column 2]
said property; that the marshal had employed as
his private and personal counsel in the receiver-
ship the district attorney of the United States;
that some of the property had been sold and a
fund opened; that enormous and exorbitant al-
lowances were demanded for the services of the
receiver and his counsel, and that the school
boards, for whose benefit the property had been
forfeited, had been obliged to employ private
counsel to resist such demands."
	So it would appear that there is to be a real in-
vestigation, if Senator Edmunds' influence can
bring it about, and when judges and lawyers get
hold of the affair, it is likely to be in dispute for
some time, for who shall decide when they dis-
agree? and they are not very likely to agree. The
CASE, however, as far as the Church interests are
concerned, has been advanced in the calendar of
the Supreme Court of the United States, and will
be argued January 14, 1889. Hon. F. S. Richards,
lawyer for the Church, now in Washington in the
interest of the Church cases, will be there
when the case dissolving the corporation of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and
confiscating its property, is argued in the highest
tribunal in the land; and also the still more im-
portant question of the powers of Congress to
interfere in matters relating to ecclesiastical or-
ganizations, and to escheat property to the United
States belonging to dissolved corporations instead
of its distribution to the individual owners accord-
ing to established rules of legal precedure."
	The reasons assigned by Mr. Richards why the
court should advance the case are such as should
be understood by all parties interested, and briefly
and clearly explained are as follows:

	First—It is a cause in which the United States
are concerned as a party.
	Second—It is a cause which involves matters of
public interest, very nearly and seriously affecting
a very large portion of the citizens, residents and
property-owners of the Territory of Utah.
	"Third—It is a cause involving the constitution-
ality of certain Acts of the Congress of  the
United States.
	"Fourth—Under the decree appealed from, a
very large amount of property belonging to the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has
been seized and is now held by a receiver. Much
of said property being of a perishable nature,
great and irreparable loss and damage will ensue
if the property seized and held is left in the hands
of the receiver for the three years or more before
this case could be reached in regular order. If
said receivership is so long continued, the costs
and expenses thereof, and the loss sustained by
reason thereof, will amount to a virtual confisca-
tion of very large amounts of property, and will be
in effect a denial of justice.
	"Fifth—Said cause involves a question of
general public interest to the inhabitants of all the
Territories, because it involves the question of
the power of Congress to control and restrict the
rights of all church corporations, of all kinds and
denominations, in the matter of acquiring and
holding real and personal property, and the power
and right of Congress to dissolve church corpora-
tions and declare the property of such corpora-
tions forfeited and escheated to the United
States.
	"Sixth—Under said decree appealed from, the
United States has seized and now holds by its
receiver possession of several hundreds of thou-
sands of dollars worth of personal property be-
longing to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, and claims that the same has become
forfeited and escheated to the United States, with-
out the shadow or semblance of any law or laws
granting any such right or power.
	"Seventh—Under said decree appealed from,
the United States have seized, and now hold by a
receiver, possession of real estate belonging to
he Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints


[Column 1]
of the value of several hundreds of thousands of 
dollars, and claim the right to forfeit and escheat
said real estate to the United States, notwith-
standing the fact admitted of record, that said real
estate has been possessed, held and used by or in
trust for said Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints ever since the year 1848, under the full
power and sanction of the statutes of the Terri-
tory of Utah and the laws of the Congress of the
United States, and nothwithstanding the further
fact that a portion of said real estate so sought to
be escheated to the United States has been for
more than ten years last past, and was at the time
of the passage of said act of Congress of March
3, 1887, held and occupied exclusively for the pur-
poses of a parsonage for said Church.
	"Eighth—There are now pending in the supreme
and district courts of the Territory of Utah seven
other suits which involve the same questions that
arise in this case, and the final determination
of them will depend upon the decision of this
court as to the constitutionality of the aforesaid
acts of Congress, and the other points involved 
herein.
	"For the foregoing and other good and sufficient
reasons appearing of record in this cause, the
appellants pray this honorable court to advance 
the case on the docket and assign it final hearing
at an early day."
	This is a matter of great moment to all the peo-
ple of these United States, for it involves ques-
tions of the utmost importance, and it is "devoutly
to be wished" that the lawyers of the Supreme
Court, who are really the interpreters of all laws
enacted, shall render a decision that will be an
honor to the Supreme bench, and the country
they represent in the most essential manner in the 
interests of justice and equity. It is not so much
the question of dollars and cents, or of property
rights, as it is the rights of individuals to, "life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness." In this
free and grand Republic it is strange indeed if an
organization such as the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, must be restrained, or restricted
in the use of means directly devoted to religious
and benevolent purposes, and that has been freely
donated for this purpose by the people. Other 
churches and various denominations of Christians
own large amounts of property, and places of
worship worth immense sums of money, and when
one church can be thus treated and its property
confiscated by the government, it must also follow
naturally that other churches may be similarly de-
prived of the same rights. No doubt the cry 
would be in reference to this subject, that "Mor-
monism" is not religion;—because the popular
religious element of the world is against it, but
who is there that is authorized to declare what the
Gospel is, or what true religion consists in, except
as it compares with the Bible, the sacred word of
God? And when that is done, the Gospel in
which the Latter-day Saints believe and have
accepted, as taught in this day, is an exact type of
the Gospel as preached by the Savior and His
disciples. There are many who have been in-
duced to join in the persecution against this people
and to urge special legislation against them, that
have no correct idea whatever of the doctrines
or the precepte taught. In fact, they want the Ed-
munds law enforced, without knowing what the
law really is. Men and women, strangers in this
city, have expressed their views in this office on
this very subject, and have said, "Mormonism
must go," "The laws must be honored," "Youg
people are an alien people," and many other simi-
lar assertions, and yet would betray their ignor-
ance of the situation and the doctrine, and the re-
cently enacted laws to suppress polygamy and
punish unlawful cohabitation, etc., and the conse-
quences of the enforcement of the law, and were
entirely unaware either of what had been done, or
of what the conditions of the people were. Many
outside of Utah consider all the people as law-
[Column 2]
breakers because  they have read sensational
paragraphs in the newspapers, or heard the ru-
mors that float, as it were, upon the air, and swoop
down upon the innocent and unsophisticated, fill-
ing them with prejudice and hatred they know not
why.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE address of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Presi-
dent of the Central Board of the Relief Society,
is, No. 55 West Temple St., Salt Lake City, her
residenoe is nearly opposite the West Temple
Gate.
	IN company with Sister Zina D. H. Young we
had the pleasure of attending the quarterly
conference of the Relief Society of Weber Stake
in the Ogden Tabernacle on Thursday Dec. 13th.
There was a large and attentive audience, in the
afternoon we introduced the subject of the Na-
tional Enrollment, and distributed the papers to
the Presidents of the several branches in the
Stake. The minutes of this interesting conference
will appear in the next issue of the EXPONENT.
	WE acknowledge with pleasure the gift of
some very handsome and choice chrysanthemums
from Mrs. Ann E. Neal there were twelve varieties
of these beautiful autumn flowers. Late flowers
have a peculiar charm about them that speaks to
the heart of the summer days that are past. Re-
membrances that are sweet but sad, but which we
love to dwell upon. The cultivation of flowers
is one of the delights of life.


[column 1]
 			WOMAN.
     What can be said of her? Much, every way.
She is the mother of the human race; the source
if, not the author, of all man's joys and sorrows,
pains and pleasures. She is the embodiment of 
extremes. The reckless daring with which she
defied her Maker's law and power; and brought
to man his legacy of sin and sorrow; her sincere
devotion, her undying love for him who came to
deliver and redeem the race from all the sad con-
sequences of her transgression, are instances
without parallell in the history of womanhood.
     In her sphere she fills many very important 
relations, which  enable her to exert a power-
ful influence over the entire race of man. Man's
destiny is virtually in her hands, is prostrate at
her feet. The development of his powers all
come under the magic wand of her culture. It is 
woman that both refines and elevates the emo-
tional nature of the race, and fills it with aspira-
tions of honor, and a desire of virtuous reward.
     Her mission on earth in the relations of sister,
wife and mother, well filled, entitle her to man's 
love and protection; the approbation and ministra-
tion of angels, and the redeeming love of her
Maker—God.
     Her acute sensitive temperament, her devotional
nature, her noble quallties of heart and mind,
are endowments which richly qualify her for the
duties of these several stations assigned. Though
woman is from and of the man, she is not the
man, neither indeed can she be. She is a separate
and distinct creation, and has her sphere of action
and duty, which requires both organization and 
powers the man does not possess. As a helpmate
she is not the slave of man.
     The poet fancied he could tell woman her
sphere, when he complimentary wrote:

	"Heaven when it had created man,
	Unfinished found creation's plan;
	Though men and angels were a kin,
	A chasm still appeared between,
	Nor would the links together meet,
	Till WOMAN made the chain complete."

     That she is "the mother of all living," none will

[column 2]
dispute. The link indeed between heaven and 
earth that connects all of the spiritual world
with those who are below. She alone is fitted and 
endowed with capabilities to be the usher of all
spirits into their earthly home. 
     Filled for this high duty she is more spiritual in
her nature; the nervous system predominating,
her sensibility is greater than in man. Born to
feed and to inspire the kind and tender affections,
she is exempt from the fierce passions which
often characterize man, and love and maternal
affection are among the deepest springs of emotion
in woman’s hearts. In fact, she possesses the very
pecularities of the Christian religion; its spirit
of love and devotion, of tenderness and charity,
kindness and affection, which so eminently
qualify her to receive and nurture the innocence
of youthful life, without which there is no blessed
happy home, no truly educated one fitted for the
social duties of a Christian life, either for society
or country.
     The history of woman from early times, and in
nearly all countries has been one of servitude and
often of sorrow and hardships imposed by him
who claims the right to have rule over her, because
her desires should be unto him. As Christianity 
increases respect for woman follows in the wake,
and she is assuming her place, and exerting an
influence and power that is moulding society into
that refinement and purity that her nature de-
mands. This is especially the case among the
Saints where she is more appreciated in her re-
lations to the man and society than among any
other people. There she is an active worker in
the great labor of man’s redemption, a minister of 
sacred things for the perfection of her race. 
There she learns the full import of her calling
here, and the glorious destiny of her future.
As sister she is the life and love of the home
circle. Around her cluster not only the fondness
of parental love, but the innumerable exhibitions 
of brotherly regard, by which she is made to feel
her power to contribute to the happiness of
home, and in the midst of which she becomes a
refiner and purifier of the feelings and the affec-
tions which make the family circle better for her
presence, her absence ever to be deplored. 
In this relation she is not restricted to the home
circle, where she learns so well her lessons of
love and sympathy which make her the admira-
tion of man and the delight of angels; but the
virtue of this relation she carries with her through
all the conditions and relations of an entire life— 
she is ever sister in God's great family of living
souls.
     As wife her pledge of love is unreserved, and
she, as such, the choicest gift of God to man.
With her his joys increase, his sorrows flee; and 
the strength and virtue of union are planted upon
the citadal of home for the growth of a kingdom.
     Love in this, as in all God's institutions charac-
terize the union of husband and wife; without 
mutual love the relation will be an unhappy one,
and so defect the object God had in view. Where
this love does not exist marriage is virtually a sin,
is against the canons of human consciousness,
and the divine law. When we consider the part
woman is to take in the relation of wife, it has
been well said that "her price is far above rubies,"
but it is in the character of Mother that woman 
fills her high mission to man and earth. 
     In the capacity of mother we find blended all of
excellence and worth of womankind. In this
sphere of her life she developes those God-like
qualities with which she is so eminently endowed;
undying love, filial regard for offspring, begetting
tenderness of affection, and stimulating all the
emotional nature of man's being.
     In some instances, the highest type of divine
excellence in humanity has made its appearance
in woman as mother. Her power of endurance


under the most trying circumstances; her charity,
that which like the love of God, endureth and 
hopeth all things, and is richly endowed with the 
attribute of mercy.
	This was more than ordinarily manifested in the
life and character of her who was the mother of
the prophet Joseph Smith. She once remarked 
to the writer of this, concerning a son who had
been indifferent at times to her motherly advice.
"He has endeared himself to me by the trouble
he has made me," and this sentiment was a reflex
of her true character—a sentiment worthy of the 
Gods in Heaven, found in the heart of woman on 
earth.   Worthy indeed, to be the mother of pro-
phets, patriarchs and seers, is one whose love
could not be turned into hate even by a disregard
of parental authority. How faithfully was repre-
sented by her the chrracter of our Heavenly 
Father, who, when His children on earth refused
to recognize His parental authority, witheld not
His love, did not cast them off, but placed a sacri-
fice upon the altar, a divine pledge of His forgiving
mercy that was ever ready and free to the return-
ing prodigal. So God-like in character was
woman, one who was virtually mother on earth
of God's great and last dispensation to her race.
	And it is indeed well for the race of man, that
others have followed most gloriously in the wake
of her example and shed forth those genial rays of
refining influence that now prompt a rising gen-
eration of sons and daughters in Israel to emulate
the deeds and honor the virtues of woman and 
mother. Mothers in Israel to-day do not forget
to honor the mission that Jesus gave to woman in
recognition of her fidelity to him and his cause. 
She was honored with the first commission given
by the immortal Jesus,—a commission which has
never been revoked. It was woman who was 
first authorized to announce the fact of a risen
Jesus; it was woman who was first to seek him
and learn the fact that death had been overcome.
Her eyes had seen, her ears had heard, and being
a competent witness, she was commanded to 
bear testimony of it even to his sleeping indifferent
disciples.
	In no capacity can woman bear this testimony
with effect, and more appropriately than in that
of mother to those committed to her care for
training and instruction. This may well be the 
burden of the divine lesson to be taught by every
mother in all the ranks of growing Isreal. A
Christ crucified and put to death; a Savior risen
from the dead; an immortal Jesus that would not
be touched by mortal hands, ascending into heaven
in the presence of many witnesses; returning to
his Father on the glorious termination of his
earthly mission with a promise that he will come
again in like manner as he went, are all truths
that every mother should not fail to have instilled
into every youthful mind committed to her care
and guidance. Let his life and virtues be the
standard for all other lives; and the lessons of 
his life be taught at a time when they can never
be lost to the memory of those who may have
learned them. Then shall a generation arise that
will love and live the life of Him in whom their
faith has grown, and be prepared to meet him
at his coming when he shall return from heaven
in like manner as he went to heaveu. 
	In this glorious endeavor, let every mother be
a fore-runner preparing the way of his coming,
so that when he shall appear he will find faith on
earth, a living faith as enduring as a mother's
love, and as powerful as is woman in wielding
the affections, and moulding the virtues of our
race, into the image and glory of her God. 

	What heighth of glory, depth of love,
	Woman can give her worth to prove !
	With her, the man, as God may be,
	And reign, redeemed, Eternally.
				
					S. W. RICHARDS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

   		    TIMPANOGAS.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
At a quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake, held Sept. 3rd, 1886, it
was announced that a branch of the Relief So-
ciety would be organized in the Timpanogas
Ward (situated on Provo bench). The name
of Caroline Daniels was proposed as President
of that branch, and accepted by the conference.
Sister Daniels stated that she had chosen Sister
Joanna Patten as her First Counselor and 
Sarah L. Partridge as her Second Counselor,
which was also accepted by the conference. 
On Sept. 23rd, 1888, Bishop P. M. Wentz
called a meeting of the sisters of the Timpano-
gas Ward, for the perfecting of the organization
of the Society. Prest. David John, of the
Stake Presidency, and Sister Mary John, Stake
Prest. of the Relief Society of Utah Stake,
were present. The names of the officers chosen
to fill the positions of the President and Counselors
were presented to the sisters and accepted.
	Prest. John explained to the sisters, that the
officers chosen to preside over them had been
presented to the Presidency of the Stake and 
approved by that quorum, next they had been
approved by a Stake conference of the Relief
Society. Hoped there would be union in their
approval of the officers so chosen to preside
over them.
	Sister Julia E. Loveless was chosen Secretary,
and Loraine Meecham as Treasurer, which was
also approved.
	At a future conference of the Relief Society
the officers were set apart to fill the offices as-
signed them, under the hands of Prest. A. O.
Smoot, David John and H. H. Cluff.
	Our Society only numbers eighteen members;
we have five teachers. Our settlement is
scattered over four miles of country, making it
inconvenient for the sisters to attend meetings
very regularly, but seem willing to do all they
can or are called upon to do. 
Your sister and co-worker.
						C. DANIELS.

	         	UTAH STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake was held Dec. 1st, 1888, in
the meeting house, Provo City, Sister Mary
John, with her Counselors, presiding. Visitors
from Salt Lake, Sisters Jane S. Richards and
E. B. Wells. Conference opened with singing
and prayer. The minutes of former conference
were read and approved.
	Sister John felt grateful for the privilege of
meeting with the sisters in conference; thought
we would have a time of rejoicing together;
would first hear from some of the presidents a
verbal report, and then the sisters who were
visiting us would address the congregation.
	After the presidents had responded to the
call to report their various branches, Sister E.
B. Wells spoke to the sisters for awhile. Said
she felt pleased to meet with the sisters in Provo
again. Came there to-day feeling well in
spirit, and hoped to assist in dispelling the
gloomy feelings some of the speakers alluded
to, which was in consequence of the sickness
that had been in our midst for some time past;
thought we should try to rise above our feelings,
and acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things. "I suppose you all expected to meet
our President, Sister Zina Young, but she was
called away, and Sister Richards has come in
her stead; Sister Richards is First Counselor
to Sister Zina in the Central organization. It
is, I believe, the first time she has attended a
conference of the Relief Society in Provo. We
become acquainted through these Society meet-
ings and conferences. I am pleased to know
through the reports of the presidents of the
good work that is being done for the poor.
[column 2]
Apostle Moses Thatcher said recently he wanted
the teachers to hunt out the poor and lone and
comfort all, 'no matter of what color or creed.'
I think we recevie a blessing by conferring
blessings upon others. We must learn to love
our neighbors as ourselves, if we expect to at-
tain to any great excellence; we must also have
charity. We want knowledge and intelligence;
we want to inform ourselves on all subjects."
Made other remarks upon gaining wisdom and
understanding, and helping others.
	Sister Richards said she felt weak in appear-
ing before us to-day. She came here by request
of Sister Zina, but not to fill Sister Zina's
place. "We all have our own place; we all
came into the world for a purpose; we knew
before we came here what we were coming for.
We should acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in all things; when our children die we know
they are saved; they cannot go astray, and if
we are faithful we shall meet with them again.
This is the work of the Lord in which we are
engaged. Our enemies cannot keep us from
praying. Sister Eliza Snow likened this life to
the kitchen; but when we leave this world, if
we are faithful, we will take a higher position,
and will have our reward. Let us teach our
children purity and good principles, and, as
Sister Eliza said, let us teach them a little, and
set them good examples, etc. We should all at-
tend our meetings; let us pray for those that
have no desire to come to meeting. The Lord
gives us our means, and let us be charitable
with it, and help others, whether in or out of
our Church." Sister Richards made other re-
marks upon the duties of the sisters.
	After singing, conference adjourned till 2
p.m. Benediction by Coun. Emily Cluff.
	Afternoon session: Opened with the usual
exercises.
	Sister Cluff announced to the sisters that
Bro. Graves would speak a few minutes on the
silk question, after which we would again hear
from our visiting sisters.
	Sister Marilla Daniels spoke a short time;
said she felt strengthened, and no doubt we all
did, by the teachings we had received. "We
can all judge ourselves, but we have no right
to judge others; the Lord judges our hearts;
His hand is over all; let us live near Him with
our trust in Him; great events are at hand; we
do not realize as we ought the workings of
Providence.
	Sister E. B. Wells felt glad to see so many
out this afternoon. "If we have the good spirit
with us to soothe, comfort and bless, we are al-
most sure to find the same good spirit wherever
we go." Regretted that we as a people had
not made greater progress in the silk;	*	*
*	*	*	"It was an idea of President
Young's—silk culture; it was something that
would benefit us in time, but the expenses of
manufacturing it were greater than we could
buy the silk for, consequently many had given
up entirely and become discouraged." She
had often thought how nice it would be to have
our temples furnished with silk hangings, etc.,
of our own manufacture. Spoke feelingly on
the Primary Associations, and of the great im-
portance and blessing these meetings were to
the children; thought that mothers in a great
many instances were more indifferent and neg-
ligent than they should be in sending their
children to those associations, and did not
realize the necessity of spiritual teaching.
Spoke a short time on the National Woman's
Suffrage Association, and read some papers
bearing on that question, and in reference to
the National Enrollment, which she explained
thoroughly. Alluded to the efforts of some
women of influence, who wanted to reform
"Mormon" women, and how much need there
was of their home missionary work in the East
and West instead of coming into these valleys,
where such wickedness and degradation did not
exist.


Sister Richards again addressed the confer-
ence on various subjects; thought testimony
meetings were very interesting and instructive;
many of us are better speakers than doers.
Referred to Sister Snow’s voice in speaking, so
soft and low, yet so penetrating; "the Spirit of
God was with her and filled her whole being.
As to what Sister Wells said on the franchise
question, we need no persuading to sign the
papers for the National Enrollment; we can put
our names down to show that we believe it is
our right to vote, even if it has been taken
from us. About the silk, President Young had
a great anxiety in regard to it; I think it is
better to raise cocoons and sell them, than not
to do anything in that direction. For the
Primary Association, we have no work that is
half as important as that; teach the children
to have faith in times of sickness; tell them of
the days of Joseph, and other matters of Church
history; encourage the young ladies to live
aright, and when they marry to be married
right. Exhorted all to diligence and faithful-
ness.
	Prest. Mary John felt to thank the sisters
for their good instructions, etc.
	Conference was then adjourned for three
months. Singing, "How firm a foundation."
Benediction by Bro. Allman.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
BY M. J. TANNER.
[Continued.]
	Lockport, Sunday June 7th 1885. Lock-
port is the city of all cities to me. Here my
grandparents lived and raised their families,
and died. My parents were married here and
began life together. Their eldest child was
born here, after which they moved to Toledo
where I was born, I was brought back to my
grandparents when an infant, and the name
is treasured by me as the scene of so many
sacred ties, I can hardly say memories, for I
was so young when I left that I remember
but little of it. Here my grandparents are
buried beside their youngest son who died in
the early bloom of his manhood. Cousin
Emily and I attended Methodist meeting this
morning in a neat brick church standing on
the site of the one my father and mother were
married in, that, they tell me, was built of
frame and was burned down. The preacher,
a fine looking man, gave us a practical dis-
course on the lives of ministers in general, and
took up a collection for retired ministers and
their families. It is a long walk to church
but very pleasant and leads through the central
part of town.
	Auntie and I have a long talk in the after-
noon. We attend the Episcopal church in the
evening; it is quite a change, they have so many
ceremonies; I never saw the Episcopal service
before. The minister wears a white robe and
reads the sermon. There seems no heart in it
although it is very good.
	Lockport, Tuesday June 9th 1885. Re-
ceived a letter from Botton, Lake George,
where my husband's relatives live, inviting me
to visit with them and telling how to find them;
have not yet decided if I will go. Emily and
I went for a walk, calling on some of her
friends, and tried to identify the house that my
grandparents lived in. We find one that
we decide upon; it looks very ancient not
at all like its modern neighbors.
	Thursday June 11th 1885. The circus
came here yesterday and people turned out and
stood around on the streets just as they do at
home expecting to see something but saw
nothing worth mentioning. Auntie and I
walked out today and she showed me the
house my father built and lived in; it looked

[Column 2]
old like some others, but still stands while the
hands that built it are mouldering to dust.
	Lockport, Friday June 12th 1885. The
weather is very warm. Cousin and I walked
out to the Cold Spring Cemetery. Auntie
was not able to walk so far as she is quite ad-
vanced in years being seventy-five years old
but she is quite smart for her age and gets
around very nicely. It was a long but pleasant
walk as the road is bordered with shade trees
most of the way. The cemetery is very pleas-
antly laid out with shade trees, flowers, and grass and everything seemed so nicely cared
for, quite a contrast to some we see at home.
After searching a long time we found grand-
father's lot in an old uncared for part of the
cemetery, where weeds and young locusts ran
riot. In a few more years it will be a dense
forest of locust trees. The tomb stones were
broken and defaced by the hand of time. We
found grandfather's at last where he and
grandmother and uncle Bertrand lay side by
side. The stones were mildewed but the in-
scriptions were plain. We rested awhile and
mused on the changes and uncertainties of life,
and the certainty of death, when we too
should lie in graves as lone and uncared for
as these, and our names forgotten by the busy
world around us which would still surge on
filled with its own conceits and busy with the
cares and labors that fall on life whenever and
wherever it is. We went to the spring from
which the cemetery takes its name, and whose
water is delightfully cool after our long hot
walk; the country beyond is very hilly. We
walked slowly home and arrived at 5 p.m.,
very tired.
	Sunday, June 14th 1885. Attended Catholic
church this morning and heard "High Mass."
It was all very new and strange to me. While
standing in the vestibnle we saw people pass
the font or basin of holy water and make the
sign of the cross before entering church: We
asked a gentleman if strangers were allowed
there, and he said certainly, we should go in and
sit down wherever we chose. I find in most
churches we are liable to intrude if we enter
a seat without a proper invitation. I never
saw the Catholic services before and it is all
so strange and fantastic to me. The music
and chanting are grand; tall wax candles burn
over the altar and pictures representing different
phases in the life and death of Christ being
near. I cannot describe the services, they are
very impressive and must be seen to be appreci-
ated, though they could not then be under-
stood. Every one on entering looked toward
the pulpit and bent the knee, on entering their
seat they knelt and said a prayer (I suppose)
before they sat down, some counted
beads. When the chanting and music were
finished Father Murphy spoke from a pulpit;
he is an eloquent speaker. He denounced the
fashions and follies of the world and pictured
the terrors of hell, where millions of people
are suffering now, and will suffer throughout
the endless ages of eternity, while the good
would go to everlasting life. He denounced
the Protestants and told the people to send their
children to Catholic schools. After Father
Murphy finished, the old priest who had offici-
iated at Mass began speaking, the people began
leaving each one looking at the altar and
kneeling as they went out, and not more than
two thirds perhaps waited for the benediction.
Near the church stands a nunnery; both church
and nunnery are large substantial buildings of
grey stone; we could but wonder what kind
of life was led by those who were shut in be-
hind its walls. We hear so many strange
stories about these places that it excites our
interest, but the silent stones and painted
windows tell us nothing. It might be appro-
priate here to tell a tale that Auntie told me
of the long ago.
	In her early life she lived in Lockport and

[Column 3]
knew the circumstances as it was fresh in the
minds of those still living.
	A young priest fell in love with a maiden
who was in every way worthy of his affection
and they were secretly married. He took her
to Rochester where he visited her for awhile
without being suspected. His house was showed
me near the church where he lived with his
housekeeper. She suspicioned him and grow-
ing jealous set the other priests after him.
His crime was soon brought to light and he
was tried before the council and imprisoned.
He was finally taken to Canada and all trace
of him was lost, and the world never knew his
fate. His broken hearted wife took possession
of his home and spent her days there loved by
all who knew her. Her sad story is ended and
she has passed over to the  beyond where the
mystery of her life is long ago solved. The
house stands there grey and silent and cold, and
tells no tales of the martyred lives and broken
hopes that passed within its walls.
	We called on grandma Niles an aged lady
identified with the history of the town, she had
relatives she told us in Utah. The Murray's
one of whom was the late Vilate Kimball well
known to many at home in Utah. She began
telling me that people in Utah dare not write
to their friends in the east. I told her she
was mistaken in that for people could always
write if they wanted to. She asked what
would be the consequence if a woman wrote
when her husband had forbidden her. I said
"a family spat perhaps" I did not know what
else could happen. But I assured her that
 Brigham Young had something to do in settling
a new country and looking after his extensive
family besides watching people's letters. She
said so many offensive things that I got mad
and left. I spent the afternoon reading and
writing and preparing to go to Lake George
tomorrow. Auntie will go on to New York to
visit with cousin Ettie Kimball and Rebecca
Newman in New Jersey, where she was born
and raised. She anticipated a visit with Aunt
Fanny Ridges whose history she gave me, and,
as it is very interesting I will some day write
it for the EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL RESOLUTIONS.

	At the annual meeting of the American
Woman Suffrage Association held in Cincin-
nati Ohio, the following Resolutious were read
and adopted in which we concur and desire to
express our appreciation of the same—and of
the noble work accomplished by these able and
efficient laborers in the interest, amelioration
and elevation of humanity.—ED. 
		MARY F. THOMAS. M. D.
	“Since our last annual meeting, one of the
pioneers in the woman suffrage movement has
passed away. Mary F. Thomas is dead. A
life of great usefulness is ended, and the
American Woman Suffrage Association has
sustained a great loss. She was the possessor
of that highest kind of courage which was al-
ways ready to avow its convictions in the face
of adverse public opinion, and of that kind of
magnanimity which could bear, without re-
sentment, every manner of unjust criticism and
obloquy from those around her. By her
blameless  life and the manifest sincerity of
purpose which pervaded everything she did,
she finally subdued all animosities, and died
universally respected, honored and loved.
The solemn earnestness which characterized all
her acts, and perhaps, most of all, her efforts
for the enfranchisement of her sex, was accom-
panied at all times with singular modesty,
gentleness and charity for the shortcomings of
others. Selfishness was absent from her nature.
She saw the right and struggled to maintain it
for its own sake, not for the sake of herself or
of anything which it could bring to her. Her


life was a busy one, and it was spent in doing
good.  Healing the sick, relieving the poor, 
and comforting the afflicted,—these things were,
with her, not the recreations of idle moments;
they were her daily work, the business of her
life. She did not court but rather avoided
notoriety.  As she lived, so she died. An
abiding conviction that her course was right
remained with her to her last hour.  Of her,
as completely as of any we have ever known, 
may it be said that she filled to the utmost the
measure of her duty.  She was in the fullest
sense of the word all that a woman ought to
be."

			JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE.
	"Resolved, That the American Woman Sufirage
Association has sustained a great loss in the
removal by death of Rev. James Freeman
Clarke.  President for three years of the
Massuchetts W. S. A., and always our faithful
and judicious friend. Dr. Clarke's wise advo-
cacy of all just reforms made his adherence to
our cause a matter of great weight and impor-
tance. His presence has left us, but his influence
remains."

			LOUISA M. ALCOTT.
	"Resolved, That by the death of Louisa M. 
Alcott, the woman suffrage movement has lost
a steady and generous friend, and a shining ex-
ample that a woman who believes in equal
rights may be a devoted daughter, a faithful
sister, and a woman exemplary in all the rela-
tions of private life, as well as a citizen whose
public services have been invaluable in pro-
viding pure, wholesome and delightful reading
for the young.—Woman's Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY FAIR.

	On the 16th of November a Primary Fair
was held at Hyde Park, Cache Co.  There was
a good representation of work, done by the
children, both at their homes and in the work-
ing meetings.  The work consisted of sewing,
knitting, crochet work and cooking by the girls,
both ornamental and useful articles being made;
also vegetables raised by the boys and orna-
ments made of wood, etc.
	A party was given to the children, and alto-
gether it was a very pleasant affair. The
children showed their willingness to do what
was required of them, by bringing in their
work.
					LYDIA DAVIS, Sec.
	Hyde Park, Dec. 5, 1888.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Eight women were elected the first week in
this month on Massachusetts School Commit-
tees.
	Mrs. Annie Besant and Mrs. Ashton Dilke
have just been elected to the London School
Board.
	Mrs. Esther M. Hawks was nominated last
week by a meeting of the women voters of
Lynn, Mass., as a candidate for the school
board. 
	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe has almost wholly
recovered from her recent illness, and passes
her time pleasantly at her Hartford home en-
gaged in her usual occupations.
	Mrs. Nathan Appleton, of Boston, is at the 
head of a movement to raise funds for a statue
of Washington, to be presented to the French
government by the women of America. The
President and Mrs. Cleveland have promised to
lend their aid.—Ex.
	Woman suffrage gives promising signs of
gaining supporters.  Lord Salisbury has de-


clared in favor of it, and the Italian Senate'
though it has rejected a bill providing for it,
did so by a small majority.—Philadelphia,
Ledger.
	A French lady recently defended her father
before a law court with acumen worthy of
a veteran lawyer.  In recognition of her
talent the Sorbonne, which is the Paris Col-
lege of the University of France and which
affords equal opportunities to women, has
conferred on her the title of Doctor of
Sciences.
	Mrs. Marietta Holley (Josiah Allen’s wife)
is fitting up a new house for herself in Adams,
N. Y. in which provision is made for the ac-
commodation of ten or twelve guests, to be
selected from the sewing-girls of New York
City, during the summer months.  She expects
to entertain four or five sets of them in succes-
sion.—Ex.
	Emma S. Dill, of Wyoming, O., has sug-
gested to the Board of Directors of the Hamil-
ton County Agricultural Society “that a Board
of Lady Directors, appointed to act with and
under the direction of the present Board of
Directors, could greatly aid in awakening an
interest, and in the work preparatory to a good
fair each year.” This suggestion is to be acted
upon at the next meeting of the board, and if
the gentlemen will consult the Indiana State
Agricultural Annual Reports, they will find
that an auxiliary board of women has been of
decided advantage for ten years past.—Ex.

	The Earl of Salisbury, prime minister of
England, took occasion, in his address before
an audience of some 6,000 people in Edinburgh,
reeently, to speak as follows:
	“I earnestly hope the day is not far distant
when women also will bear their share in vot-
ing for members to the political world, and in
determining the policy of the country.  I can
conceive no argument by which they are ex-
cluded.  It is obvious that they are abund-
antly as fit as many who now possess suffrage,
by knowledge, by training and by character;
and their influence is likely to weigh in a direc-
tion which, in an age so material as ours, is
exceedingly valuable—namely, in the direction
of morality and religion.”


MISCELLANIOUS.

	If our faith has not for its basis the witness
of God, to which we must submit as to the
authority outside of, superior to, and indepen-
dent of, our personal judgment, then that
faith is no faith.—A. Monod.

	One of the latest as well as one of the best
things from Spurgeon is his reply to the ques-
tion whether a man could be a Christian and 
belong to a brass band.  "Yes I think he might;
but it would be a very difficult matter for his
next door neighbor to be a Christian."—Ex.

	The Roman Catholic cathedral in Boston
will be a remarkably interesting place on one
day in the first week in January, when Mary
Anderson's brother Joe is to be married to one
of Wilson Barrett's female kin.  Mary Ander-
son was proposed as a bridesmaid, but decided
the part  out of her line.  She will be there
though, and so will Booth and Barrett and
some of the prettiest girls in town.—Ex.


IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, at Leamington, Millard Co., Utah., Oct. 7th,
1888, Stephen Bartors Talbot, son of Stephen B. and the
late Bussellitta G. Brownell Talbot, aged one year three
weeks and one day.
	We all feel to regret the death of the dear little boy,


whose mother was taken away when he was only five weeks
old. He was tenderly cared for by his grandmother,
Mrs. Matilda Overson, and grew to be such a large beauti-
ful child until he was one year old, when he was taken with
whooping cough and teething, which caused his death in
three weeks. The death of his mother almost prostrated
his grandmother with grief, but this little fellow had grown
to be such a comfort to her, that parting with him seemed
almost more than she could bear, but we have the consola-
tion of knowing that his angel mother has one more darling
with her.										L. M.


OUR LITTLE MAGGIE.

	DIED, of diphtheria, Maggie Morrison, aged seven years.
She was a most promising child, and we all deeply feel our
great loss.  She died on the 20th of Oct. 1888.  Her birth-
day was on the 3rd of Dec., 1881.  Daughter of William
and Emma S. Morrison.
		
		Weep not for Maggie, who's left so soon,
			Nor to despair be driven,
		Good angels bore her spirit home
			To that blest abode called heaven.

		Be comforted and know that now
			She's free from every snare,
		Your darling's saved and all is well,
			Prepare to meet her there.

		Rejoice, rejoice, our God is good,
			His name we will adore;
		Whate'er affliction He permits,
			He'll give strength to endure.

		Now, let us then all faithful be
			To our covenants prove true,
		That when our earthly race is run,
			We'll unite with her anew.
								M. F. C. M.
	Clear Creek Canyon, Oct. 21, 1888.


R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES  & CO.,
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address.  DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
