Vol. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1888.	No.	2.


IN THE TWILIGHT.

On a calm, still summer evening,
	When the day had almost sped,
And the sun was nearly setting,
	And spring and youth had fled,
I heard the voice of waters,
	I heard them rippling flow,
Like the wailing notes of sorrow,
	Or the murmurings of woe;
For my soul was sad and weary
	With its load of earthly care,
And the "still small voice" was silenced
	By the wailing of despair.
But while I thus stood musing,
	The sky above grew bright,
And	the moon in all her splendor
	Drove away the clouds of night; 
And	her track, like silver gleaming
	On the brooklet’s dancing crest,
Seemed like an angel speeding 
	To tell of peace and rest; 	
For my life was overshadowed,
	And its future hid from sight,  
As I stood upon the brookside
	In the shade of coming night.
But the twinkling home-light whispered,
	"There is work still to be done,
You must wait and labor bravely,
	For a while the hard race run;"
While the quiet graveyard stretching
	To the brooklet’s other shore.
Seemed the entrance to an haven
	Where the weary work no more;
And the moonlight seemed to promise,
	As it chased the gloom away,
Of a brighter life hereafter,
	In "realms of endless day."
Then my soul was cheered within me,
	For I thought I saw an hand
Waving slow and gently o’er me,
	In the moonbeams on the strand,
And I heard the sound of voices,
	As the waters murmured low, 
Singing hymns of joy and gladness, 
	That made my spirit glow
With a gleam of sunlight gladness,
	That bore my thoughts away
From the sadness that oppressed me,
	In the twilight cold and grey.
			M  A. YOULTON GREENHALGH.
Meadow, May 26, 1888.


[Column 1]
[For the EXPONENT.]
THE WOMEN OF UTAH.
PART II.
PHILANTHROPY.
“The sympathetic revenge, which is con-
demned by clamorous imbecility, is so far
from being a vice, that it is the greatest of all
possible virtues—a virtue which the uncor-
rupted judgment of mankind has in all ages
exalted to the rank of heroism.”
The one great work beyond the home that
has ever been granted to women, the one work
where her kind heart has been allowed full
sway, the loved work of a true woman’s soul—
that of doing good to others—Philanthropy.
It is the great field where women toil and labor,
battle and enjoy without opposition, without
limitation; where, free and unrestrained, her
voice can be raised to defend, her hand ex-
tended to uplift; where she can enter the dens
of infamy uncontaminated and unblamed, and
is an ever welcome guest in the huts of the

[Column 2]
poor and the palaces of the rich. Laboring
in such a field, with such scope, such boundless
freedom, need we wonder that so many women’s
names illuminate the pages of the world’s his-
tory. What an endless task ’twould be to try
to enumerate the names of women who deserve
immortality for their unselfish and kind works.
Our own war of the Rebellion proved that
America might claim hundreds of Florence
Nightingales, and, we would ask, “Is there a
day that ever closes without recording the kind-
nesses of woman, is there in this world a place
where her love for humanity is not hourly
shown?”
	The recent Convention at Washington daily
rehearsed the philanthropies of women; not a
paper there read, but spoke volumes of
woman’s charity and devotion to humane work.
There were Madame Bogelot representing the
Prison Reform Work of St. Lazarre, Paris,
Alice Scatcherd and Margaret Dilke, The
Women’s Liberal League of New York and
New Castle, Mrs. Ormiston Chant, The Women
of Scotland, Margaret Moore, The Women of
Ireland, Ada M. Frederickson, The Danish
Women’s Defense Society, Pundita Ramabai
Sarasvati, The Child widows of India, and
many others from abroad, while our own noble
country-women, Clara Barton, of the Geneva
Cross Society, Frances Willard, of the W. C.
T. U., Laura McNier, of the G. A. R., Ednah
D. Cheney, of The Women’s and Children's
Hospitals of New England, Jennie Croley, of
the Sorosis Society, Amelia S. Quinten, of the
Women’s Nat. Indian Ass’n, Mrs. Warden, of
the Grange, and countless others, related such
pages of relief work daily going on, as have
never before been placed before the world.
What surprise, what wonder, and what gratifica-
tion it all invoked. Among these great women
representing all these International Associa-
tions were four delegates from our own fair
Territory—Utah—and it was her privilege in
this great gathering to have a voice and tell
some of the philalthropic work of her own
women. The fact that Utah’s daughters could
be represented in such a vast and grand con-
vention, shows for itself that our work is no
trifling thing, and great must have been the
surprise when Emily S. Richards read her
report of the Societies of Utah. It was neces-
sarily brief, as only ten minutes were allotted
her, but in that short period a complete descrip-
tion of the organization of the Relief, the
Y. L. M. I. and the Primary Associations, to
gether with their aims and objects, was given.
The power of organization is very well illustra-
ted by the Relief Society, when 22,000 women
are banded together under one organization,
with united aims and desires, the greatest suc-
cess must and does necessarily result. To this
Association is due the advancement of the ma-
jority of the women of Utah, not alone in
philanthropic but in missionary, political, edu-
cational, journalistic, industrial, medical and
art work. Composed entirely of women, the
Relief Society might almost be styled a sym-
pathetic association; not only do they aid the
needy, but in the homes of the rich and poor
alike, wherever sickness, sorrow, death, or
trouble of any kind may be, its aid is sent.
This organization sustains by annual fees a
well regulated hospital, and gives much aid
towards public buildings, sometimes complete-
ly furnishing the interior. Its members
might almost consider themselves ministers,
for their work is very similar. They hold

[Column 3]
regular meetings for the purpose of speaking
upon Gospel subjects, and their missionary
work is quite extensive. Many have performed
long and trying missions on the Sandwich Is-
lands, teaching and working with the native
women and children. Prominent among those
who have gone unprotected by husbands, are
Dr. Elvira S. Barney and Mrs. Mildred Randall.
Many have gone among the Indians, teaching
and speaking with them. There are now some
few branches of the Relief Society of Indian
women, and Primary Associations of Indian
children in the Territory. Our lamented
woman-leader, Eliza R. Snow Smith, and Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells, visited the Indians in
Thistle Valley, in 1881, and organized these
societies, and a few years later, when visiting
them a second time, they discovered a marked
progress had been made. The women were
quite proud of their needlework, and sent
some of it to the Stake fair of Sanpete. Among
the Indians in Box Elder Co. the work is, per-
haps, more advanced. The Relief and Prim-
ary Societies were there organized before
the Thistle Valley Society, and the Stake
officers frequently visit them to encourage them
towards civilized and industrial habits. A
great amount of home missionary work is ac-
complished by the R. S. women, scarcely a week
passing without some of them traveling into
different counties, organizing, instructing and
encouraging their sisters. The Relief Society
is in its membership wholly Mormon, having
been organized in 1842 at Nauvoo, by Joseph
Smith, and reorganized in Utah, by Brigham
Young, in 1855; its aid is, however, confined
to no class or sect, but is freely given wherever
there is need.
	There are, in Utah, many other guilds or
societies of women for philanthropic purposes,
but scarcely could we deem them so thoroughly
organized, or conducted on so grand a scale
as the Relief Society. Each of the different
churches has such an one, and much aid is
given through them, confined principally, but
not entirely, to their own church members.
The Catholic Sisterhood distribute freely, and
the Mother Superior says, “We give wherever
needed, in whatever way, and neither keep ac-
count or mention it afterward.” They have
built and conduct the beautiful and fine struc-
ture known as St. Mary’s Hospital of the Holy
Cross. This was the first woman’s hospital in
Utah, and is one of the finest in the West.
	The ladies of the Episcopal Church, under
 the name of St. Mark’s and St. Paul’s Ladies’
Guild, do much work for the poor and the en-
couragement of art, expending a large amount
of means for charitable purposes.
	The other sects average about an equal dis-
bursement through their ladies’ societies, each
giving liberally every year. The Hebrew
women also have a benevolent society, and dis-
burse yearly among their own poor.
	There is in Salt Lake an independent aid
society, composed entirely of young women,
which collects from well to-do classes and dis-
tributes wherever they find need. They confine
themselves to no class or place, but wherever
or whenever they happen to see an opportunity
to extend aid they do so, until they have be-
come quite a young army of evangelists.
	The G. A. R. Relief Corps so ably repre-
sented by Laura McNier at Washington, has,
for the past three years had a branch organiza-
tion here, which now has a membership of some
70 ladies. Their work is, of course, principally


[Column 1]

﻿confined to aiding soldiers, sailors and marines,
and their families, or members thereof, who are
indigent, maimed or sick, but, like all other
charitable societies here, bestow charity wher-
ever opportunity offers. During the short life
of this society, it has averaged for helping the
poor, $166.50 annually, and the first quarter of
the present year, 1888, has given $113.50, show-
ing a large increase.
	For some years past a few benovelent ladies
have been trying to provide Salt Lake with an
Orphan's Home, a need which is not yet greatly
felt, but since the project of making it also a
day nursery, where working women's children
are cared for and taught, has been carried out,
it has made more progress, and the Legislature
of 1888 made an appropriation for this purpose.
	Under the sub-heading, philanthropy, let us
not forget to mention The Woman's Industrial
Home, which at present is more of a blot on
our Territory, if not on our country, than any-
thing good. Some ladies persuaded Congress
to make an appropriation for the building of a
home for Mormon women who will renounce
their religious principles. From its beginning
this Home has been nothing but a farce; no
true woman would receive aid from it under
its present conditions and regulations, and in
behalf of the Mormon women let me say, we
have no need of such a place; we do not want
it and we will not enter it. If the appropria-
tion could be used to promote women's indus-
tries in the Territory, as the name implies it
should, it will be gladly received and aided.
	It is woman's delight to do good, it is her
greatest pleasure, and the firmer her religious
convictions are, the greater her good deeds be-
come. As woman is more spiritual, so is she
more charitable. Robert Hall tells us it was
reserved for the religious whose basis is humili-
ty and whose element is devotion, to proclaim
with authority, "Blessed are the merciful, for
they shall obtain mercy."

WOMEN IN POLITICS.
	On the twelfth of February, eighteen hun-
dred and seventy, the legislative assembly of
Utah passed an act confering upon women the
elective franchise; this act, having been ap-
proved by the Governor, became a law. Mrs.
Wells writes: "The peculiar exigencies and ex-
periences of Mormon life, have had a tendency
to make women self-helpful and self-reliant,
and have given them indomitable energy and
undaunted courage, and these characteristics
prepare them to use more discretely any trust
or confidence reposed in them." This is most
true, and has been fully proven by the manner
in which they exercised their privileges as free
citizens; we say tree, for no man or woman is a
free citizen who cannot have a voice at the
polls. For seventeen years the women of Utah
voted regularly for territorial, county and city
officers; also for delegate to Congress, Having
themselves the right of suffrage, the women of
Utah have always felt an interest in their sis-
ters in other states, and have assisted as best
they could, by petitions and other means, the
suffrage movement.
	The women were very eager to vote, but
took no other political privileges much before
eighteen seventy-eight, when they attended the
caucusses and primary meetings. Out of the
five different precincts in Salt Lake City, three
of them sent women delegates to the County
Convention. At this Convention, the first that
women had a voice in, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
was chosen as Secretary, and also nominated
for County Treasurer, but owing to the Statutes
of the Territory, the nomination could not be
sustained by the Convention. Though the law
allowed women to vote, the legal objection to
women holding office was found in the compiled
laws of Utah, which read, "Male citizens."
The gentlemen of this Convention showed great
liberality towards and pleasure in having the

[Column 2]

women associated with them, and offered to the
lady nominee for treasurer a vote of confidence
and assurance that she should have been sus-
tained if the  statutes had allowed. At this
same Convention three ladies' names—E.
B. Wells, M. I. Horne and S. M. Kim-
ball—were added to the People's Central Com-
mittee. The work of this Convention was
quite an advanced step for the women of the
Territory. These three women remained on
the Central Committee, and worked with sin-
cerity up to the time of the disfranchisement
of women. In several following conventions
women have held the offices of vice presidents
and secretaries.
	During this year of seventy-eight, when
women were making such progress in political
affairs. the subject of plural marriage was
greatly agitated, and active measures were
taken by certain parties to arouse public senti-
ment against its practice. A mass meeting of
non-Mormon women was held, and after some
speech-making against the Mormons in general,
certain resolutions were adopted and a circular
sent to Congress against polygamy, and speak-
ing in favor of the disfranchisement of the
women of Utah. Thus, the first blow against
Woman's Rights in Utah was struck by women.
It has often been remarked, that if it were not
for women themselves, women might vote,
and it is, to a great extent, true. At any
rate, the non-Mormon women of Utah have
shown little inclination to vote, and have been
very earnest in their efforts against the rights
of Mormon women.
	This Anti-Polygamy Meeting was followed
by a Mass Meeting of the women of Utah in the
Salt Lake Theatre. There were present at
least two thousand women; such a gathering
as is seldom seen in any place. There were,
perhaps, some fifteen or twenty newspaper re-
porters present, the only men admitted. There
were some eight or nine addresses by prominent
women, and then resolutions were read and
adopted, wherein the women declared them-
selves loyal citizens, and claimed the right to
defend themselves against the ruthless assaults
being made upon their sacred and constitutional
rights. It was a brave and a great defense,
when two thousand women rose en masse and
declared themselves determined to maintain
and defend their rights. Mass meetings of
women were held all over the Territory endors-
ing the sentiments expressed, and adopting the
resolutions presented at this mass meeting.
Not only were the women of Utah themselves
aroused, but the noble women of the suffrage
associations were alike enraged at the crusade
which had begun, and defended the women of
Utah in the the halls of Congress. Lillie
Devereaux Blake, when the subject of disfran-
chisement first appeared, wrote a very cutting
and fitting article against such a movement,
showing, in her pointed satire, the absurdity of
trying to prevent polygamy by taking the vote
from the women.
	The next year Utah sent two delegates—
Mrs. E. B. Wells and Zina Y. Williams—to
the National Woman's Suffrage Convention at
Washington, who were allowed many oppor-
tunities of speaking in behalf of the Mormon
women. During an interview with President
Hayes, he was so impressed by their statements
as to request them to put their case in writing,
before him, as he did not wish to trust so im-
portant a matter to a verbal interview. They
also prepared, while in Washington, a touching
and telling memorial to Congress, asking for a
repeal of the anti-polygamy law of eighteen
sixty-two, and for legislation to protect the
women and children of Utah. This memorial
was referred to the Judiciary Committee, be-
fore which these ladies had several hearings.
When the women of this Territory were first
threatened with disfranchisement they went to
the Nation's Capital to assert their rights, and

[Column 3]

to the National Woman's Suffrage Association
to ask assistance, and they did not ask in vain.
The suffragists have been most kind in speaking
for our rights, and we always have a representa
tion at their Conventions.
	The women of Utah petitioned the Terri-
torial Legislature of eighteen eighty, praying
for the removal of their political disabilities,
stating that for nine years they had enjoyed
the right of suffrage, and had proven them-
selves worthy of the trust; they argued, that
owing to the word male in the territorial
statutes, they were prohibited from holding any
official position, and prayed that some enact-
ment might be passed to remove this obstacle,
and allow them further rights. This prayer
was granted by the assembly, a bill having
been pressented and passed in accordance with
their wishes, viz: "A bill removing the political
disabilities of the women of Utah." This bill
passed the House with a large majority vote,
and the Council unanimously, but was ignored
by the Governor, as was also a similar bill pre-
sented some two years before. It is a sad
reflection on the Government, which boasts
such unparallelled freedom, that the contempt
of a single man, who has neither property or
interest of any kind in the Territory, can pre-
vent the passage of an act which is in accord-
ance with the wishes of the voters and the law-
makers of the community. At the time
the legislature again convened, the in-
famous Edmunds Bill was pending in Congress,
and as that was passed in March, 1882, all
women who were the wives of polygamous men
were disfranchised.
	The next effort on the part of the people for
rights was to frame a State Constitution and
present the same to Congress, asking for ad-
mission, and it was the intention to have a
Woman's Suffrage Plank in its platform. In
eighteen eighty-four there were four representa-
tive women in Washington working before
committees for the admission of Utah, and for
the repeal or modification of the Edmunds
Bill, which was then causing such great suffer-
ing and trouble among the people of this Terri-
tory. So great had this trouble become, that
the women had no heart to fight for political
rights; it seemed as though they scarcely had
the right to live at all. In eighteen eighty-six
the dreadful Edmunds-Tucker Bill became a
law, and from that time all tue women have
been disfranchised.
	It has been questioned some why the women
of Utah, not plural wives, do not make a stand
and plead for their former rights; and 'twould
seem if they were at all interested in suffrage
that they would certainly do so; their silence
speaks against them. If they would only try
to regain the ballot, they might do good to
others as well as themselves. We scarcely
need call it their right, it is their duty; your
brothers and sisters are bound; they have no
freedom. Obtain your rights, free women of
Utah, and do your duty to your country. Mrs.
Stanton says, "I want women to feel that it is
their religious duty to take part in government,
the most elevated of all sciences."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Danske Dandrige is a woman whose verse
first sees the light in a slender volume, "Joy
and Other Poems," just issued by Putnam. If
her poems have before appeared in the maga-
zines, I have been unable to find them; but one
of them, "To my comrade tree," bears every
test a good poem must endure before it is ac-
cepted as a worthy addition to the great stream
of English verse. It can be read alone and
aloud in good company, it can be re-read, and,
more than all this, it enriches the chambered
imagery of the mind and adds a new cement to
life. It is not a great poem, nor one consum-
mate in form; but it is tender and true, touches
the heart and kindles its better feelings.—Book
News.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿LOVE IS ALL.

We two in the fever and fervor and glow
	Of life’s high tide have rejoiced together,
We have looked out over the glittering snow
	And known we were dwelling in summer weather;
For the seasons are made by the heart, I hold,
	And not by the out-door heat or cold.

We two in the shadows of pain and woe,
	Have journeyed together in dim, dark places,
Where black-robed sorrow walked to and fro,
	And fear and trouble with phantom faces
Peered out upon us and froze our blood,
Though June's fair roses were all in bud.

We two have measured all depths, all heights,
	We have bathed in tears, we have sunned in laughter,
We have known all sorrows and all delights;
	They never could keep us apart hereafter.
Wherever your spirit was sent I know
I would defy earth, or heaven to go.

If they took my soul into paradise	
	And told me I must be content without you,
I would weary them so with my lonesome cries,
	And the ceaseless questions I asked about you,
They would open the gates and set me free,
Or else they would find you and bring you to me.
						ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


THOUGHTS,
AFTER THE DEATH OF OUR BELOVED AND AGED
SISTER, SUSAN K. GREENE.

One more body now is resting,
	One more spirit now is free;		
One more pilgrim home is welcomed,
	’Midst a glorious jubilee.

What is death unto that body,
	Is new life unto the soul;
For this day ’tis born in heaven,
	Born, and journeys toward its goal.

Long and patiently she’s waited,
	Waited for this day of rest.
“I am ready when the Lord sees
	Fit for me to be so blest.”

Many times her steps have wandered
	To the mystic river’s brink;
Many times near it she’s lingered—
	She had crossed—they’d almost think.

But no angel to her beckoned, 
	Nor was there to guide her o’er,
So she slowly back would totter,
	Back to work a little more.

Now she’s crossed that mystic river,
	Crossed unto the other side.
Yes, this time they came to meet her,
	Bore her o’er the waters wide.

Shall we mourn her? O, how can we,
	When she’s longed	so much to go?
And we know that now she’s happy, 
	Free from all earth’s care and woe.

And we know that now she’s mingling
	With her loved ones gone before;	
Has regained her Father’s presence,
	And does dwell with Him once more.

Let us keep her pure example
	In our hearts and dealings too;
Let us profit by her teachings—
	To our God be faithful, true.

That when called to cross the river,
	We, like her, may ready stand,
And may sail into the harbor,
	Where all faithful Saints will land.
LOUISA PICKETT.
Marion, Cassia Co., Idaho, April 19, 1888.


SUGGESTIVE THOUGHTS.
“He is idle who might be better employed.”
	It is true wisdom to know just what to do at
the right time. “Aunt Polly” set me to think-
ing, or rather set old thoughts in motion, in her
article on “Fancy Work,” in a recent issue of 
the EXPONENT. I have an eye for the beauti-
ful, and love to see pretty things about as well
as any body, but I think we should indulge in
fancy work about as we would eat a piece of
cake, or a dish of ice cream. There is so much
earnest work to do, so much to learn that is
really necessary to health and happiness—and
we weary both body and brain, expend nervous
vitality upon things that are worse than useless
—because the profit or pleasure does not over-
balance the outlay of time and strength. It
is a nice point to be able to define the time
when spare moments can be profitably spared
for much that we do.
	I often think if young ladies could look into
the depths of their ignorance, and sense how 
poorly equiped they are with a knowledge of
the requirements due their life-work, they
would see fewer spare moments which they
would be willing to devote to fancy work.
Many devotees of the crochet hook, embroidery
needle, and other implements of ornamentation,
deplore their lack of time for self-improvement.
As they approach the holy temple of matri-
mony, their thoughts are not so much upon the
grave duties of the intelligent management of 
home and family, as upon the ornamenting of
the home and the trimming of the wedding
trousseau. Oh, the endless yards of edging,
ric rac, feather-edge, novelty, etc., and the 
tedious hours of stitching tucking and ruffling on
the woman’s enemy, the machine, which many 
girls take pride in doing themselves—till the
wedding morn finds them exhausted in vital
force, nerves prancing around the tightest ten-
sion, the emotions in an overwrought state of
excitement; but pride and vanity are gratified,
and a false and injurious custom smiles grimly
at the sad havoc its tyranny has made.
	Now comes the reaction, pay day is at hand;
the should-be blooming bride is more like a
wilted flower; she has been “so miserable” ever
since her marriage, but has tried to regain the
old-time buoyancy by forcing herself into
increased excitement and gaiety. Oh, the
fatal mistake! Rest, rest is the proper tonic. 
In this state she meets the sacred mysteries of
maternity; but instead of becoming the quali-
fied guardian of so precious a trust as a human
soul, she is the ailing invalid, a victim to what
is ignorantly supposed to be the natural condi-
tion of maternity. Had all the misplaced
affection, the misspent time, misapplied energy
been devoted to a proper and intelligent pre-
paration for the wedding, by taking a course
of medical studies—without which no woman’s
education can be complete—how different
would be the results. As every mother is to
be warden of the life and health of her home,
so should she know how to administer their
laws. 
	Not only are young ladies, but the mothers
of families, carried away, so to speak, by the 
decorative “craze,” and the fear and torture of
body and mind, which many mothers experi-
ence in the rearing of their families, in ignor-
ance of the simple laws of health, is sad to
contemplate. If baby has the colic or any
simple ailment or disease of childhood, the
mother is powerless, till grandma or the doctor
arrives; or if indigestion overtakes any member
of the family, as the result of ignorance in
preparing digestible food, the same difficulty is
ever present.
	“Oh, mamma! read me a pretty story,” says
the little child, who has lived, despite its
mother’s ignorance. “No, darling, mamma hasn’t
time; see the pretty flowers I am making on
your dress.” “Take me into the field for

[Column 2] 
pretty flowers, mamma; I want to hear the birds
sing, too.” “Oh, now mamma’s too busy; I’ve so
much fancy work to do for my little girl.” So
the weary little brain, hungry for a story, goes
out alone to learn its own lessons of good or
evil. What beautiful flowers of thought and 
happiness the mother has denied her child’s
heart, to work them on the perishable dress.
When the lovely daughter has wandered from
your control, think, oh, vain mother, that, per-
haps, you dug the impassable gulph between
you with an embroidery needle or a crochet
hook. 	L. T. F.


NOTES AND NEWS. 
	The Chicago Law Times and Bradwell’s Ap-
pellate Court Reports are published and edited
by female lawyers. 

	There are probably a thousand women in 
the city of Pittsburgh who work in iron mills, 
making bolts, nuts, hinges and barbed wire. 

	Mrs. Tennyson is described as a sweet grace-
ful woman, with singularly winning, gentle
manners, but looking painfully fragile and
wan.

	Queen Victoria is the first English reigning
sovereign who has visited Florence since the 
time of the Crusades, when Richard I. passed
through the city.

	Mrs. Livermore and Mrs Stanton, in 1869, in 
Illinois, were not allowed to speak until they
had paid a license of five dollars. “But now,”
said Mrs. Livermore at the suffrage festival,
“instead of paying for a license to speak, we
make everybody pay a dollar to come and
hear.”

	The Empress Victoria of Germany has
turned inventor. From plans drawn by her, a 
writing desk has been manufactured which 
enables the Emperor to write whether lying in 
bed or standing up. It is available in any
position, and the mechanism is said to be in-
tricate and remarkably effective. 

	Princess Irene of Hesse, who has just mar-
ried Prince Henry of Prussia, has received a 
thorough housewife’s training. She can sew, 
make bread, and do everything she would have
to do, were she fated to become the wife of a 
poor man. All the Princesses of Hesse were 
trained in this way by their mother, the late
grand duchess, daughter of Queen Victoria.—
Ex.
	Mrs. Maria E. Beasley, of Philadelphia, 
has made a fortune by the invention of a ma-
chine for the construction of barrels, which, up 
to that time, had been made almost wholly by 
hand. The machine is worked by three men
and turns out more than 600 completed barrels
a day. Mrs. Beasley was born in North
Carolina, of wealthy parents. She possesses
remarkable mechanical genius. Her first in-
vention was a machine for hooping barrels. It
will hoop 1,700 barrels a day, and is used by 
the Standard Oil Company.—Ex.

	The Boston Globe advises husbands to take
home flowers to their wives at this season of the
year. The Globe says, “It is often too true
that the very men who think nothing is too good
for a girl when they are winning her, seem to 
think that anything—or nothing—is good
enough for her once she is won. But married
men are not all of that stripe. There are
Benedicts who keep up the sweet old ways, and
regularly buy a bunch of posies for their
better halves. Why can’t all men realize that
it isn’t enough just to love their wives? Why
can’t they show that they love them? If hus-
bands would show a little more attention to 
their wives, there would be fewer divorce cases
in our courts.”


12    WOMANS EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Salt Lake City. Utah.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,  -  -  -  June 15, 1888.


[Column 1]

APOSTLE ERASTUS SNOW.

	Apostle Erastus Snow died at his residence in
Salt Lake City, at five minutes to seven o'clock,
Sunday evening, May 27, 1888. Bro. Snow was
decended from one of the early New England
(Puritan) families, who located in Mass., but after-
wards some of them settled in northern Vermont,
where the subject of this sketch was born, in St.
Johnsbury, Caledonia Co., Vt., November 9, 1818.
His parents were Levi and Lucina Snow, and he
was one of seven sons and two daughters. Joseph 
Smith, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and
Newel K. Whitney, as well as Erastus Snow
and many other leading men of the Latter-day
work, were born in Vermont. It is true, no
doubt, that climate and conditions of country have
an effect upon character, and these Green Moun-
tain boys were of that honest, upright, sterling
character which is needful to make Latter-day
Saints.
	In the Spring of 1832, Elders Orson Pratt and
Luke Johnson carried the Gospel into that region
of country where Levi Snow's family resided, and
two of the sons, William and Zerubbabel, were
baptized, and subsequently nearly the whole
family. William Snow baptized his brother
Erastus Feb. 3, 1833. and he was ordained a
teacher Jan. 28, 1834, by Elder John F. Boynton.
At that time he assisted his father in the farm work
but he also labored faithfully in the ministry, and
visited the Saints in that vicinity, doing mission-
ary work as opportunity offered. November 13
1834, he was ordained a Priest by his brother
William, and soon after traveled as a missionary
in the States of New York and New Hampshire,
preaching publicly and privately. He baptized
quite a number into the Church who had been
converted through his teaching. August 16, 1835,
he was ordained an Elder by Luke Johnson, and
afterwards traveled and preached with his brother,
Willard Snow, and others in New Hampshire and
Vermont.
	He left his home in St. Johnsbury for Kirtland
in company with Hazen Aldrich, Nov. 8, 1835. It
was quite a journey in those days to travel 700
miles, and he was just seventeen the day after they
started. While crossing Lake Erie they came
near being shipwrecked, but were saved, and after
rather a rough journey they reached Kirtland Dec.
3, 1835.
	After his arrival in Kirtland, then the head-
quarters of the Saints, Erastus Snow was recog-
nized as a young Elder of great promise. He
possessed a fine voice, and his eloquence was
quite remarkable at that early period, although his
opportunities for acquiring knowledge had been
limited to a country school education. In the
winter of 1835-36, he attended the Elder's school
in Kirtland, where he received instruction, both
religious and secular, and he was an attentive and
apt student, thirsting for intelligence. Even be-

[Column 2]

fore he had enjoyed these advantages, his sermons 
were alluded to as models of oratory and eloquence.
Bro. Snow was present at the dedication of the
Kirtland Temple, and has testified of the wonderful
gifts and manifestations received and seen therein.
He was earnest and zealous in his labors in the
ministry and as a missionary among
the people, converting and baptizing many
into the Church, and also organiz-
ing several branches in various districts in
Pennsylvania, where he labored some months.
Like many other Elders in those days, he suffered
from prejudice, and had narrow escapes from
mob violence. He afterwards went out in other
directions on other missions in several of the
Stakes, and was very successful in evangelical
work. Elder E. Snow was often engaged in public
discussions with men of talent and public notoriety
among the sectarian world, and although young in
years, and not possessing the collegiate education
that ministers are expected to receive in the out-
side world, yet he invariably succeeded in debate
upon the principles of the Gospel. He was famil-
iar with the Scriptures, and his reasoning was
logical and convincing to the honest-hearted.
	In 1838, after a mission to Pennsylvania and
Virginia, he went up to Far West, where his
parents and other relatives had removed from
Vermont. It was there he married, December 13,
1838, Artemisia Beman. His subsequent career
in Missouri is spoken of as a very important era
in his life. With other brethren, he aided in the
attempt of the Prophet and those imprisoned with
him, to escape from Liberty Jail, Feb. 8, 1839, and
was, with his companions, arrested and imprisoned
and afterwards tried, when he plead his own cause
in the court with such soundness and eloquence,
that the judge inquired where he had studied
law.
	After the Saints were driven from Missouri,
Brother Snow located his family in Montrose, on
the opposite side of the Mississippi from Nauvoo.
He performed some missions in Illinois, and ad-
ministered to many who were sick
until he himself was prostrated. At
the October Conference, in 1839, he
was made a member of the High Council at
Montrose. Like many others of the Saints in
these trying times, he and his family were severe-
ly afflicted with fever and ague. Int the Spring of
1840, Elder Snow started on another mission to
the East, preaching and traveling in Pennsylvania
and New Jersey, laboring with great diligence
and accomplishing a great work.
	In August 1841 he left that field of labor to go to
Salem. Mass., where his success was almost un-
bounded; his mission and labors extended into
neighboring towns, both in Massachusetts and
New Hampshire and also into the cultured city
of Boston. We remember very well hearing of
his fame in that region of country when Mormon-
ism first began to be spoken of up among the New
England hills in the Connecticut valley," and how
expectation was on tiptoe when the news was
brought that young Erastus Snow was coming up
there to preach. The impression of him at that
time among the local Saints was that he was
equal to Daniel Webster in eloquence and intelli-
gence. He was looked upon by the village folks
as an Eastern man, and not so much of a pilgrim
and wanderer as other "Mormon" Elders who
came and preached from time to time. The idea
of his being like Daniel Webster was not out of
the way, as the future verified his statesmanship
and his adaptation for legislative work and in-
fluence in "the arena of politics," so called.
	Elder Snow was in Massachusetts on his second
mission there, when the Prophet and Patriarch
were killed, and hearing of the tragedy he re-
turned to Nauvoo. Brother Snow was actively en-
gaged in the Temple work until the exodus, and
left Nauvoo Feb. 16, 1846, with the first companies
of the exiled Saints on their journey westward.

[Column 3]

From Mt. Pisgah he made a return trip to Nauvoo,
and then came on to Council Bluffs.
	Elder Snow was selected as one of the Pioneers
to seek out a resting place for the Saints, and as
has often been told, was one of the first to look
upon this beautiful valley on the 21st of July,
1847, the other being Orson Pratt.
	It is impossible to give more than an item here
and there of the life and labors of the great and
good man, but his days were full of usefulness
and his ways and words were always rich in wis-
dom and in the gifts of the Gospel with which he
was endowed from his youth until the time of his
decease. After the organization of the First
Presidency from the Quorum of the Twelve
Apostles causing three vacancies. There was
still another vacancy caused by Lyman Wight's
apostacy, and four brethren were chosen. Elder
Erastus Snow was one of the chosen four or-
dained to fill the vacant places. In October Con-
ference following he was appointed to go on a
mission to Denmark and landed in Copenhagen
in June 1850. This was one of the great open-
ings of missionary work, for the Gospel has spread
throughout Scandinavia from city to city and
county to county and many thousands have been
gathered home to Zion. This mission alone would
have immortalized the memory of Erastus Snow,
but his efforts in the cause have never ceased or
wavered, but his course has been onward and his 
labors untiring. As a colonizer in Utah and ad-
jacent lands he as ever been indefatigable,
wherever it was possible to open up towns or
abiding places, or to subdue the soil and make
homes for the people.
	It has been remarked that Erastus Snow as a
colonizer was second only to Brigham Young.
Southern Utah is in itself a positive proof of his
labors, enterprise and development, as it is well
known to all familiar with the country that it was
one of the most desolate and forbidding regions,
yet the Saints under his advice and leadership
have made themselves desirable homes and built
up and beautified towns, cities and farms, and
erected in its midst a magnificent Temple;
throughout that part of Utah Bro. Snow is every-
where recognized and spoken of as a father to the
people.
	During the last few years he has traveled and
labored in establishing settlements and arranging
and directing the affairs of the Saints in Arizona
and Mexico. He possessed the indomitable will
determination and heroism that characterized the
New Englanders from whom he was descended,
and which many of the leaders of this Church
inherited from their noble ancestors. The Lord
raised up just such men and women as were
needed to establish and maintain the principles
of the everlasting Gospel, and Bro. Snow is an
illustrious example of the strong and unflinching
characteristics of the class of men that are
needed to carry on the Latter-day work He was
not only faithful honest and upright among men
and in his public life, but he was exemplary as a
husband and father in his family relations. He
has left a large family to mourn his loss, but they
have the comfort and consolations of the Gospel
and an assurance that reaches beyond the grave
that if they remain faithful and true they will meet
him again and enjoy his society where there is no
pain or parting and all tears are wiped away.
	The funeral of Apostle E. Snow was held in the
Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, May 30th, services
commencing at 12 m. The body of Bro. Snow
lay in state from 8 o'clock in the morning, and
many thousands availed themselves of the oppor-
tunity of taking a last look at the face of the de-
ceased. The beauty and purity of the white
emblems used in draping, with running lines of
evergreens and white flowers, was very striking,
and was certainly in keeping with the views of the
Latter-day Saints: There were many vases of
flowers and floral tokens of love in suitable de-


signs, but the most beautiful of all was one in the
shape of a tombstone, around which were lovely
flowers, with a floral base of appropriate propor-
tions. In the centre of the floral frame was an in-
scription printed on white silk in gilt letters; it
was a token of love from the Scandinavians:
	"Erastus Snow, Apostle to the Scandinavians.
Token of Respect, in behalf of 50,000 members of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
who have embraced the Truth in Denmark,Sweden
and Norway, as the fruits of the Gospel door be-
ing opened in those countries in 1850-52, by our
beloved and esteemed Apostle, Erastus Snow."
	The entire effect of the decorating of the hall
was exquisitely elegant. The band played a
solemn dirge preliminary to the services, which
were presided over by Apostle Lorenzo Snow.
The singing by the Tabernacle choir was excellent,
and the selections tender and soothing. Prayer
was offered by Apostle F. D. Richards. Apostle
Lorenzo Snow opened his discourse by reading
the 13th verse of the 14th chapter of Revela-
tions:
	And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto
me, Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the
Lord from henceforth; yea, saith the Spirit, that
they may rest from their labors; and their works
do follow them.
	The other speakers were Prest: A. O. Smoot, of
Provo, Prest. Angus M. Cannon, Coun. D. H.
Wells, Elder Andrew Jenson and Apostle F. D.
Richards; also Apostle H. J. Grant, who read a
few words written by Apostle Moses Thatcher;
he was followed by Apostle J. H. Smith, who,
after addressing the congregation a few minutes,
read a communication from Prest. Wilford Wood-
ruff in behalf of the absent members of the Coun-
cil of the Apostles.
	The choir sang,
		"Nearer, my God, to Thee."
	Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John
Smith.
	The procession was formed with the band and
Apostles as pall-bearers, after these the hearse,
the family, the choir and the various quorums of
the priesthood, followed by citizens.  At the ceme-
tery the choir sang,
		"O, my Father, Thou that dwellest."
	Coun. D. H. Wells offered up a dedicatory
prayer, and the body of this illustrious Apostle
was consigned to its last resting place to await the
morning of the resurrection.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTE.

	THE annual meeting of the 13th Ward Primary
Association of this city was held in the Ward As-
sembly Rooms, Mvy 25th, at half past three p.m.,
Miss Kate Wells presiding. Meeting commenced
with singing, "The children are praying for me."
Prayer by Coun. Empey. After singing again,
reading of minutes, report, etc., the programme
was carried out as follows: Recitation, Charlie
Peterson, "Scatter the gems of the beautiful;"
Song, by Irene Merrill, Belle Barrett and
Guinheld Peterson, "I cannot catch the sun-
beams;" Questions on the Bible Recitation,
Bella Barrell; Song, May Edwards and Agnes
Kenner; Recitation, Lettie Carter, "The Sailor;"
Song, Daisie Newton; a Prize Essay, on the
principles of the Gospel, was read by Miss
Thomas; the children then responded with senti-
ments, verses from the Bible, proverbs, maxims,
etc, Remarks were then made by Sisters E. C.
Clawson, L. A. Wells, R. C. Atwood, E. B. Wells,
B. W. Smith and Bishop Atwood. The resigna-
tion of Miss Annie Thomas, as Counselor, was
accepted, and Miss Lillie Mortenson and Miss
Agnes Kenner were chosen as Counselors, Miss


May Merrill, Secretary, and Miss Gertie Peterson,
Ass't Secretary. The children sang, "Good
Night," and the benediction was pronounced by
Thomas Sloan.


[Column 1]

[For the EXPONENT.]
	TO THE SISTERS.

	To you who are rearing families, and you who
are just married, I have a few words to say:
	In the beginning the curse was pronounced upon
Eve, that she should bring forth children in sorrow.
But has not the time come when the curse will be
taken from the daughters of Eve? not by deadly
chloroform, but by natural means, that is within
the reach of everyone.
	If women would live in a more healthy manner,
leave off corsets, breathe pure air, take the right
course to strengthen the abdominal muscles, and
live on a fruit diet, keep the Word of Wisdom and
the celestial law, I know that in natural cases
childbirth would be almost painless What a
blessing, what a boon to women! It depends up-
on yourselves whether you suffer or not.
	I have had two children born with scarcely any
pain, and three others without the assistance of
a midwife. I only mention this to show that I
know that labors can be painless, or nearly so. If
a child is pitched, flannels wrung out of hot water
and placed on the abdomen as hot as possible,
and a dry one over to exclude the air, will relax
the system and give help right away; and in one
case, by that method, the child that had presented
wrong, turned of its own accord to a head pre-
sentation, and was born with but a few pains.
	The dress should be worn loose, so that women
will not feel so sick in the morning, and in fact
tight dresses should never be worn, as they restrict
the circulation and the breathing, and tight lacing
forces the internal organs out of place, laps the
ribs, and produces a great deal of suffering, and
often death.
	If you don't feel like eating in the morning,
don't eat until you are hungry. That is a good
maxim throughout life; hunger demands food, but
if the stomach is crowded with food, when it can-
not digest it, then it produces sickness at the
stomach and other ailments.
	Everyone should study themselves, and they
can soon find out what benefits them. If an
article of diet is disliked, don't force yourself to
eat, but get something else agreeable. For
biliousness and sickness at the stomach, drink
something sour—vinegar, water and sugar, lemon-
ade, drinks from cream of tartar, tartaric acid, and
sugar are healthy and good for summer.
	Avoid cooking, when the sight and smell of
victuals makes you sick. In the first months of
pregnancy a women needs help, when she can
scarcely drag around, and sleep and rest ought to
be her portion.
	A fruit diet overcomes constipation, while pills
and physic do more harm than good; a relaxing
diet is much better.
	Keep the Word of Wisdom. Tea stimulates, but
depresses, brings on sick headache and numerous
evils. How little would we suffer if we did as the
Lord has told us.
	For heartburn do without a meal, that is the
best remedy.
	Don't work so hard that you are all of the time
tired, and in consequence have a feeble child, that
soon dies, or has a struggle to live. Rest when-
ever inclined, or change hard work to light, and
delight in what you are doing.
	When the system needs sleep, do not try by
washing your face in cold water, going into the
open air, drinking tea, and other ways, to rouse
yourselves to do more work, but sleep until you
have had your sleep out, and you will be rewarded
with more energy and better health.
	Be out doors as much as possible; breathe the
pure air, and breathe deeply.

[Column 2]

	You that need, try, and see if suffering cannot
be avoided, your own lives happier and healthier,
and your children consequently healthier and
longer lived.
		EMILY B. SPENCER.


MAY-DAY PICNIC.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I thought I would give you a brief account of
our May-day celebration, which was certainly an
enjoyable time to all who participated in it.
	It had been arranged, under the auspicies of the
Mesa Relief Society, for both old and young to meet
at a grove about two- miles out of town, but this
part was changed, and it was concluded best to
meet at the bowery, reserving the hall for the pic-
nic. At 10 a.m. the children came in crowds, girls
dressed with a profusion of flowers.
	The May queen, with her twelve maids of honor,
looked, in their pure white, emblems of purity and
innocence.
	Opening speech by Prest. C. I. Robson, who
gave a retrospective view of this custom of cele-
brating the 1st day of May, which had prevailed
throughout Christendom for so many ages past,
tracing it back to the time of the Roman Empire,
but could not find any authorized account as to its
origin. He supposed, as the month of May
ushered in the season of flowers, therefore it was
celebrated as a festal holiday.
	Then followed the crowning of the May-queen
—Miss Amy Babbitt—by maids of honor, with
appropriate songs.
	A speech by the May-queen was delivered in an
easy, graceful manner, which quite captivated the
hearts of her audience. Songs, recitations and
dialogues occupied the rest of the forenoon, until
it was pronounced picnic time, and then such a
busy time for busy hands.
	Tables were arranged in the Society Hall for
those who chose to go there; some preferred the
bowery as the coolest place, others hied to some
of the numerous shade trees, that spread their
cooling branches near by. It was joyous confusion,
and all went merry as a marriage bell. Families
and friends grouped together in a kind-of-do-as-
you-please style, and all acknowledged that there
was much enjoyment to be reaped from a genuine
picnic.
	Quite a number of our Lamanite brethren and
sisters from the Papage Ward were present by
invitation, and enjoyed it immensely, especially
the picnic part of it. They were dressed clean
and neat, and behaved with great decorum.
	We met again in the afternoon at the call of the
Union Brass Band, when more songs and recita-
tions were rendered by members of the Primary
in a very creditable manner. A song by Mother
Everett, who is seventy-eight years of age, brought
down the house; also a song by the Sunday
School choir, entitled, "The Picnic," was beauti-
fully rendered. I almost forgot to mention the
beautiful singing of our native brethren and sisters.
They sang from the Latter-day Saints' Hymn Book,
under the direction of Sister Thankful Harmon,
who certainly deserves great credit, and has reason
to feel proud of her choir. They have sweet,
musical voices, bass, alto and tenor; each part is
rendered harmoniously, without any clashing. At
five o'clock dancing for the children, in the even-
ing for adults.
	Everything passed off pleasantly. Some
strangers who were present were heard to say it
was the most sociable, enjoyable affair of the kind
they had ever witnessed.		S. M.


A SISTER'S BLESSINGS.

	As I lay resting on my bed,
	Listening to raindrops overhead,
	My thoughts revert to thee.
	To thy labors and thy destiny.
And I say in my inmost soul, Sister Jane, thou


art one of nature,s noble women; blest with a
heart and mind that can expand so as to feel for
all our Father's weak and afflicted ones, and all
who need succor and aid; and also with a hand
that has not been withheld in times of need, for
at all hours of the twenty-four has it been seen
ministering to the sick and afflicted, without
thought of recompense. In thy public labors
thou hast sought the glory of the Father in heaven,
and the welfare of thy fellow creatures, rather
than the praise of men. He who looketh upon
things as they really do exist, knoweth the integri-
ty of thy heart. What ever thy faults may be, thy
noble qualities so far exceed them, that they are
buried forever in oblivion to those who know thee
as thou art, and can appreciate thy worth judging
from a standpoint of justice. I sincerely believe
thou art one of the noble spirits reserved to come
upon the earth in the last days, so faithful thou
hast been.
	Continue faithful in all thy labors, wherever thy
lot may be. When thou leavest this world o
trials, and shall receive again the intelligence thy
spirit had in its former state, united with the knowl-
edge and experience gained here, thou wilt sing
for joy the song of the redeemed.
	Then, take joy and comfort in thy labors of love,
knowing that trials and troubles are necessary for
the perfecting of the Saints. Be humble and ac-
knowledge the hand of the Lord in all things.
		D. E. D.
	April 25, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ONE MORE INSTANCE.

	So much has been written about the suffer-
ing, persecutions and trials of the Mormon
women during, the early days of our
Church, that it must seem to many that there
is nothing that is worthy of note, but has been
recorded in our journals. Yet there have been,
I have no doubt, many scenes in the lives of
these noble women that have not found record,
except in that great Book of Life, out of which
we all, some day, shall be judged.
	One by one our mothers, the witnesses, and
often the victims of the early persecutions of
the Church, are passing away; soon there will
be none left to tell the tales of trials and en-
durance to their children, to whom the names
of Missouri and Illinois are fraught with dire-
ful reflections.
	One of these aged mothers, who was a
victim to the unjust and cruel persecution of a
Missouri mob, has passed into that quiet rest that
only the righteous know. In the humble
home, where she had reared her sons and
daughters to manhood and womanhood, and
nursed her grandchildren upon her knee, her
pure spirit went softly out from the home in
which she had known so much of sorrow and
of suffering, to Him whose arm had been
around, and whose promises had sustained her
through all her years of trial.
	All that loving hands could do had been
done, and she lay enfolded in her robe of
snowy white, upon which the little grandchild-
ren, in loving tenderness, had each laid their
tribute of flowers. Her withered, toil-hardened
hands were crossed upon the bosom that had
never breathed aught but breaths of kindness;
the aged face seamed by more furrows than
those made by time, bore a peaceful, holy calm
upon it, as though the spirit had, ere its de-
parture from its earthly tenament, left upon
it the impress of its coming glory.
	She was a person of not much note, and the
crowd assembled at this, her last earthly re-
ception, was not a large one, and was composed
mostly of those who knew and loved her best,
and from one of those, one who lived close in
her affections, I learned this story of her life,
which, since it had never been told, I promised
myself I would write up in my poor way, that

[column 2]

it may find its place among its kindred circum-
stances.
	She was a Norwegian by birth, an early con-
vert to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. I have forgotten, if I was told the
year of her emigration to America, with her
husband and family. The little means they 
had saved, by dint of hard labor and close 
economy in their native land, was exhausted
by the time they reached New York, but keep-
ing their eye upon the West, they pushed on as
far as Missouri, working their way as they
went.
	In this state they sought labor whereby to
raise means to purchase a team and wagon,
which was necessary to take them to Utah.
The husband succeeded in getting a position
among mill men, and the wife sought work
among the different families of the neighbor-
hood. Before the year waned they found them-
selves in possession of the coveted and much
needed team and wagon, also one cow.
	During their stay in Missouri they were
much harassed by the mobocratic spirit which
prevailed there against the Saints, but when
they were in all readiness to commence their
journey into Iowa where they were to join a
company of Saints enroute to Zion, they were
forbidden to leave, and ordered to denounce
their delusion, as their religion was; they, how-
ever, continued to make preparation to leave.
The husband had fulfilled his contract faith-
fully with his employers, and could see no
reason why he should be detained. To hinder
him his enemies stole one ox from his hard
earned team, but he yoked the cow beside the
odd ox. A mob made search for the husband,
threatening to kill him if they found him. He
skulked his way out of the neighborhood,
while the wife put their few effects into the
wagon, yoked the unmatched team and started.
She had not gone far when the mob assailed
her, and tore from her, her little son, the oldest 
of her children. Filled with terror and despair,
the poor woman sought an officer of the law;
this proved no easy task for her, as no one
seemed very anxious to serve her; however, as
she could identify two or three of the party
who had assailed her, she succeeded in getting
a hearing before a justice of the peace. What 
was done or said in the court she knew nothing,
as she could understand scarcely a word of the
English language, but at the close her child
was restored to her, and feeling once more
happy, she took him by the hand and left the
room. Before she had gone far she was again
assailed and a second time he was snatched
from her. Again she sought the officer and
asked redress, but he said though he was sorry
for her, yet he could do nothing for her unless
she could identify the parties who had wronged
her; this she could not do, as the men had
masked their faces.
	For days this poor Norwegian family lin-
gered in the neighborhood, begging and sup-
plicating the people for help to find their little
one, but to no purpose. To be a "Mormon" in
those cruel days of Missouri was only to incite
hatred and persecution, and no one heeded
their distress or tried to aid them, till, finally,
through fear of death to themselves and the
rest of their little flock, they were forced to
leave their little boy, whom they never saw
again. After they reached Utah, and had be-
come more acquainted with the laws of the
country, they made renewed efforts to find
some trace of him, but with no avail.
	What sufferings were imposed upon him by
his fiendish captors during his childish years,
what the end of his career was after a life of
association with such men—cruel as they were
—what temptations may have assailed him and
drawn him into sin and wickedness, what
crimes he may have committed, were thoughts
that settled around the poor mother's heart, a
burden of sorrow that was lifted only when

[Column 3]

death set his seal upon her forehead on that
bright morning of the day on which my story
opens.
	And this story of hers is only one tale out
of many that might be told. Hers is only one
more white robe among the righteous throng
that surrounds the throne of the Father; she
is one more whose garments have been made
white in the blood of the Lamb; one more who
has gained the victory over death and her
enemies, and reached that place where "the
wicked cease from troubling and the weary
are at rest."
		NEMO.


R. S., Y. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

DAVIS STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake was held in Farming-
ton meeting house on Friday, April 20th,
Mrs. Mary S. Clark presiding	Present on the
stand were Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Mrs. Mary S. Clark, Mrs. Lucinda Brown.
Meeting opened by singing. Prayer by Bishop
Secrist. Continued with singing, Minutes of
the previous conference read and accepted.
The Relief Society of East Bountiful, Center-
ville, Farmington and Kaysville were then
represented by the respective presidents.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark made the opening re-
marks. Spoke of the goodness of God and
His blessings towards us as a people, hoped we
all appreciated the same; felt sure that we were
engaged in a good work and the Lord would
protect us if we were faithful.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne urged the necessity of at
tending onr meetings; thought many did not
appreciate these organizations as they should;
we should learn the responsibility that is rest-
ing upon us. Spoke of the necessity of im-
pressing on the minds of our children the truth
of this work. Also spoke of the important
mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith in estab-
lishing this work; made many other excellent
remarks.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells Spoke of the trials this peo-
ple were passing through,but said it is spreading
the Gospel more widely than ever; was sure
there was a bright future before us, urged the
sisters to take care of their bodies, take time to
rest and read and inform their minds; urged
the necessity of sending the children to the
Primary.
	Bishop Secrist said he had heard many
good things this morning and could bear testi-
mony that they were the truth. The Relief
Society is one of the organizations of the
Kingdom of God. Asked the Lord to bless
the sisters for he felt they were doing much
good.
	Adjourned until 2 p.m. by singing "Lord,
dismiss us wiith thy blessing." Benediction
by Brother Tibbetts.
	Afternoon session: Meeting commenced
with singing "We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet. Prayer by Johnathan Wood. Sing-
ing, "Lo, the mighty God appearing."
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was the first speaker; ex-
pressed herself as being very thankful that
she had been able to keep the faith and endure
the many trials the Saints had been allotted to
pass through. They have been good lessons
for us, and if we have not profited by them
we must be very dull,advised all to watch them-
selves for the adversary tries harder to over-
come those that have made covenants with the
Lord. She also spoke on many more interest-
ing subjects, among others the storing of grain
for a time of need.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne spoke of the necessity of
our improving our minds, gaining all the
knowledge that we can, for that remains with
us; while we have to leave behind us all the


wealth we accumulate; thought it was no time
for folly and vanity, but more of a time for
feasting and prayer spoke of the necessity of
being very watchful of our children, to try
and keep them from coming in contact with
evil influences; set good examples for them to
follow and said many more excellent things.
	Mrs. Lucinda Brown was glad to meet with
her sisters; feared that we did not appreciate
the blessings that we enjoy; asked the sisters if
they remembered to pray for those who were
in exile and deprived of their liberty; never
had seen a time when she felt to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things as she did
at the present. Exhorted all to cultivate the
spirit of kindness and love; never speak evil of
each other; knew this was the kingdom of God,
and thought we should all be interested in
building it up.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark made the closing remarks;
said the time seemed too short whenever we
met together; would like to have heard from
the brethren; spoke of the work for the dead,
that we should all be interested in this great
work; let us all remember our prayers, seek for
the sweet influence of the Spirit of the Lord,
watch ourselves, and try and prepare ourselves
to meet our friends who have gone behind the
veil. May the blessings of the Lord be with
us, is my prayer. 
	Conference adjourned for three months, to
meet at Kaysville. Singing, "Truth reflects
upon our senses." Benediction by Ezra T.
Clark.
		RHODA HINMAN, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EGYPTIAN WOMEN.

BY CHARLOTTE B. WILBOUR.

No 8.

WOMAN UNDER THE LAW.
	This division will include that which custom
has legalized without enactments, as well as
that found in the written code. The four sects
of Mohammedans receive their code of law
as well as of morals from the Koran. So
strongly rooted is this faith, that even as the
English have found it unwise to change from
the Mohammedan law in India, the framers of
the code adopted for the native courts just
established in Egypt, have but copied the Koran
in all that relates to marriage, polygamy, di-
vorce and concubinage. A Muslim may have
at one time four wives, and the Book says: "If
you cannot act equitably by them, take from
those whom your right hand has acquired,"
meaning slaves. Mohammedans believe that
woman is created for man's pleasure and com-
fort, and that though she is crafty and danger-
ous, she must be made to serve him with as
little bother as possible, during the time he de-
sires her. She will not follow him to Paradise
unless he wishes her presence, and he religiously
expects to have better society. The Koran has
a full recognition of slavery and supposes it to
be a perpetual institution of the country. A
slave may not marry her master, while a slave,
but the mother of her master's child is usually
emancipated, and the child is a legitimate heir.
When a girl is old enough to marry, she can of
her own free will marry any man by consenting
and receiving a part of her dower; but the
consent of the girl who is not old enough to
marry, is not required, her nearest male rela-
tive can dispose of her by receiving her dower.
The dower among the poor is small, but there
must be something paid by the husband or his
father to the nearest male relative of the
child.
	A wife may be divorced twice and return to
her husband, but if he divorces her a third
time, and, with a triple divorce declared, send
her away, he cannot live with her again until

[Column 2]

she has been one month married to another
man. After the third divorce, the husband
must pay the part of the dower which was set
aside for the wife before marriage, and he must
support her out of the house during the three
months in which she may not marry
again. If the wife be separated from
the man, and not divorced, she re-
ceives a weekly allowance from him. A
divorced woman may, after divorce, retain her
son, under two years of age, and custom gives
the child to the mother until it is seven years
old; then the father must claim the son. When
a man forfeits an engagement to marry, he
must pay the woman half her dower, and she
is free to marry at once. When a wife is diso-
bedient, the husband may beat her; if she per-
sist in disobedience he may take her with two
witnesses, not his relations, to the court, and
declare against her, and if she does not promise
to be obedient thereafter, is not obliged to feed,
lodge or clothe her, but need not divorce her;
and if he suspects that she desires to be di-
vorced in order to remarry, he surely will not.
If she confesses her wrong, and promises obedi-
ence, he must at once divorce her, or take her
home. If a wife does not wish to live with her
husband, she enters a complaint against him at
the court, stating that her family will support
her, and makes a demand for separation. If
the women of the same harem, or of different
ones, quarrel and are complained of to the
court, their husbands are punished by the
court; but we may be sure that their vicarious
correction does not save the poor victim from
chastisement. The husband divorces the wife,
but the wife cannot divorce the husband. If
the Muslim cannot marry a wife of his own
faith, or is deeply in love, he may marry a
Jewess or a Christian, but the children must
follow the faith of the father. A Muslim woman
may not marry a man out of the faith, unless
compelled by force, and a man may not live
with either Jewess or Christian to whom he is
not married. A master or mistress cannot
marry a slave. Copts do not divorce except
for unfaithfulness on the part of the wife; the
woman cannot divorce the husband. If a
Coptic wife commits a great crime, her husband
may separate himself from her; neither can
marry another, but they may remarry after
the law has been satisfied.
	Slavery and the bastinado yet exist in
Europe. The existing law does not recognize
primogeniture, and generally gives the woman
heir half what it gives the male heir of the
same relationship. After debts and legacies
are paid, one-eighth belongs to the wife, if
there be children; one fourth if there be none.
A husband inherits half of his wife's property
if she have no children; if she has children he
inherits one-fourth. If a man has only a sister
by the same father and mother, she inherits
half his property, while the only brother
inherits the whole of a sister's. The
mother, in certain cases, inherits equally
with the father. In the division of a man's
property there is no difference made between
the children of the legal wives and the slaves
and the adopted children: The illegitimate
child inherits only from the mother.
	For the murder of a man under palliating
circumstances, twice as much blood-money is
demanded as for the murder of a woman. The
killing of a robber has no penalty. A woman
convicted of murder should be drowned in the
Nile; the fine for wounding a woman is half
that for wounding a man. The Koran com-
mands that the unfaithful wife be put to [--]ath,
and this is done secretly, in spite of the efforts
to prevent the irresponsible from usurping the
prerogative of the law. A man taken for the
army is deemed dead to his family, For many
years mothers have maimed their sons that
they might be exempt from military service,
and often when the mother failed to do this for

[Column 3]

her son, he has maimed himself. It is useless
to appeal to a man's patriotism, when he must
fight for the overthrow of his faith, and the
spoilation of his people; no wonder that when
the conscripting officers enter a village, the
men flee to the tombs and holes in the rocks,
to escape their fate. Starvation drives them
back again; they are seized, chained neck to
neck, and packed upon the transports. And
it has not yet occurred to the most Christian
nation which inaugurated the last philanthropic
war, to change the conditions of military servi-
tude, so as to give the Egyptian women pro-
tection against desertion, when it has haled the
husband and father from home and family.
The wife is left to struggle with increased taxa-
tion, fines, mortgages and ignorance. During
the years of this afflictive visitation, sickening
scenes are perpetual on the banks of the Nile:
men forced away. women, with smeared faces,
following in crowds, wailing and crying as for
the dead, and dancing the funeral dance. And
as each conscript walks the long plank from
the shore, the women send forth curses on the
despoiler, and stretch out their arms in hope-
less agony to the poor victim who is to render
unwilling service to the captors of his country,
the foes of his faith. These sad sights, the
constant passing of transports with sick soldiers
down the river, and the general unrest of in-
vasion, have for five years prevented intelligent
travellers and invalids from visiting Upper
Egypt, and destroyed the long known luxuri-
ous peace and healthful repose of the Nile
voyage.
THEIR FUTURE.
	Among the rejected Gospels of the New
Testament is the Gospel to the Egyptians, in
which it is related that Salome asked our Lord
how long death shonld prevail, and the Christ
answered: "As long as ye women are mothers."
These words have been quoted to support celi-
bacy; but it is through this strongest element
in the Egyptian that Egypt's deliverance must
come. The mother loves her child and her
love is perpetual, and it has enabled her, under
 the oppression of these last years, to overcome
her indolence and sustain herself and her child-
ren, and hold her possessions. And other
women, without possessions, have sold in the
markets, tilled the fields, made trinkets, carried
water and driven donkeys for the stranger,
that they and their army orphaned children
might live. The class of women known as
dancing girls are the pest of the villages, and
the beauty we have read of does not appear;
they have not even that excuse for being.
But the slave women from the Soudan and
Abyssinia are the live industrial female power
of Upper Egypt. Their strong, well-shapen
bodies and amiable intelligence, promise a
coming race that may equal the Memlooks in
daring.
	But to what source can we look for any
speedy elevation of Egyptian women with a
religion which teaches them they depend on
the wish of man for immortality, that the
envious eye of a neighbor may destroy their
children, that their guardian-angel may play
them ridiculous tricks, cause them illness and
even death, that to be the mother of many
children is their justification for existing, that
the marital chastisement, authorized by the
Prophet, is the best proof of the husband's
love; that the daughter is purer and more to
be desired in marriage, if she cannot read or
write. that if she must go to school, she may
not remain after she is ten or twelve years old;
that she who has never been seen by her hus-
band is the truly virtuous girl; and that it is
the mother's duty to marry her daughter, even
if she does not desire to be a wife?
	Verily, a wide sea lies between the old, beauti-
ful Land of the Sunrise, and the new, fresh
Land of the Sunset.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHILDREN'S COLUMN.

OBEDIENCE.
	Obedience is the first step to salvation. The
Lord has said, "Children, obey your parents
(for it is right) Honor thy father and thy
mother, that thy days may be long in the land
which the Lord thy God giveth thee."
	We should also obey the counsels of our
teachers and our presidents, and all those who
are placed over us, and then we will be blest;
but disobedience always brings sorrow. Some
children are first disobedient to their brothers
and sisters who are older than they are—and
think they know as much as they do—then to
their parents; then they will not listen to the
counsel of the servants of God. And what
will be the result? Unless they control this
disobedient spirit, and hearken unto the coun-
sel given by the servants of God, and by their
parents, they are liable to go down to death
and destruction and be lost.
	So let us obey our parents; let us listen to
the counsel of our bishops and our presi-
dents, and to all the commandments of God,
then we will be crowned with glory in the
kingdom of God.
		BERTIE SCHNEIDER.
	Fourth Ward Primary, Logan,
		May 5th, 1888.

HOUSEKEEPING.
A Dialogue for Two Little Girls.
	Kate.—Well, Mary, I am pleased to see you.
I have thought for some time that I would like
to have a talk with you about housekeeping.
	Mary.—That is a very strange subject for
you to talk with me about.
	Kate.—Perhaps it is, but it will be for your
future benefit and blessing.
	Mary.—I have not thought much about the
future, and you see that I enjoy myself very
much at present. I am taking music lessons,
and of course I do not bother myself about
housekeeping.
	Kate.—Now listen to me. You expect some
day to have a home of your own, do you not?
	Mary.—To be sure I do, and a hired girl to
do my work; what do you think of that,
Kate?
	Kate.—I will tell you what I think; I am
afraid you will feel rather cheap about that
time,  if you do not know how to keep house.
	Mary.—I am nothing like you, Kate; it
seems to me that you take solid comfort in get-
tiny down on your knees to scrub the floor, or
to brush and dust, and also to do cooking for
all your folks, while I enjoy sitting down to
the organ and playing a sweet tune; it seems to
cheer everybody so much.
	Kate.—That is very nice, Mary; there is
a time for everything, but there is nothing like
knowing how to do your own work, if you
should have to, or at any rate to superintend it,
and do it right; have a place for everything
and everything in its proper place.
	Mary.—I believe you are right, and this I
must remember, "A place for everything and
everything in its proper place," and after this
I will try to learn something besides music and
pursuits of pleasure. I thank you for your
good advice.
		A. J. NORTH.


﻿Out of 87 candidates at the last examination
for admission to the Royal Academy, only
twelve succeeded in securing admission as pro-
bationers, and ten of these were women.
	A model will is that of the late Roscoe
Conkling. It is given here with the gentle
hint that wives copy the same and sweetly woe


their liege lords to affix their signature in the
presence of two witnesses. The will is as fol-
lows:
	I, Roscoe Conkling, of Utica, N. Y., do
make, publish and declare my last will and
testament ae follows: I give, devise, and be-
queath to my wife, Julia, and to her heirs and
assigns forever, all my property and estate,
whether real, personal, or mixed; and I con-
stitute and appoint my said wife sole executrix
of this will.
	In testimony whereof I hereto sign my name,
this 21st day of June, A. D., 1887.
		ROSCOE CONKLING.

	Among the women book lovers of the last
century Madame de Pompadour easily outranks
all others. Nor were her tastes for rare editions
and fine bindings merely an affectation. She
was heart and soul a student as well as a patron
of art. Said Voltaire: "She is one of us." Her
library numbered 8,000 volumes, hundreds of
them bound in full morocco and many of them
decorated in the most exquisite style by Pade-
loup and Derome. She was an intelligent col-
lector and knew the books which filled her
shelves. In fact, this celebrated woman was a
sort of female Crichton; she was well versed in
literature and art, skilled in drawing, painting
and etching, a fine musician, a good singer,
excellent actress and most graceful of dancers.
In 1865 her library brought 42,000 francs; to-
day the same books would bring a million.—
Book News.


The Salt Lake Sanitarian, recently estab-
lished in this city, of which the Drs. Shipp are
editors, was issued in May. The contents are:
Remedial Agents, by the editors; Olive Oil, by
Dr. E. R. Shipp, M. D.; Disinfectants, by Dr.
Brown; Scarlet fever, by M. C. Shipp, M. D.;
Do not Forget to Give the Baby a Drink;" be-
sides editorial and other matter suitable to such
a journal. It is quite up to the standard of
other medical papers we have seen, and is likely
to prove successful in its department of litera-
ture.


OBITUARIES.

	The Relief Society of Smithfield, Cache County, have
been called upon by our Heavenly Father to sustain a great
loss by the death of Sister Susan E. Weeks, who departed
this life at five a.m., May 1st, 1888. Deceased was born at
Cambridge, England, September 10, 1835; emigrated to
Utah in 1863. She has been a faithful worker in the Relief
Society, having been a teacher for several years, always
looking after the poor and sick. While we feel that she
has accomplished a good and noble work, and has gone
beyond the trials and temptations of this life to gain the re-
ward in store for her, we feel to deeply sympathize with her
bereaved family, her husband, Brother Sydney Weeks,
being in PRISON for the Gospel's sake. Her children are
left, for the present, with neither father or mother to counsel
and guide them.
		E. T. JUSHAW, Prest.,
		MA Y WOODRUFF, Sec.

	DIED, in Newton Ward, Cache Co., Utah Territory, on
the 30th of May, 1888, Susan Dermot Barker, wife of John
Henry Barker. She was born May 20, 1843, at South-
hampton, England. She joined the Church in her native-
land, being baptized in 1861, and crossed the sea in the
ship Manchester, and the plains in Captain Henry Miller's
Company in the year 1862. She was married in the year
1862 [--]enry Barker, and was the mother of nine children
and one grandchild, all of whom survive her, and she is the
first to pass behind the veil. She was a member of the
Relief Society; was teacher, secretary, first counselor, and
lastly president, holding the position of president a little
over two years, all of which positions she held with honor
and honesty combined. She was a devoted wife and
mother, and ever faithfnl to the cause of truth. Has resided
in the Tenth Ward, Salt Lake City Paradise, Providence,
Clarkston and Newton, Cache Co., Utah. Was much re-


spected, and was truly known to be honorable and just by
all who knew her, and passed away in the hope of a
glorious resurrection.
		COM.
Deseret News and Logan Journal please copy.

	DIED, in Nephi, Juab County, May 2d, 1888, MaryAnn,
wife of Thomas Pass. She was born January 28, 1812
in Lancashire, England; was baptized by Elder Jame
Hawkins in the year 1840; emigrated with her husband and
children to Utah in 1863, and has been a resident of this
place from that time to the date of her demise. Sister
Pass has been a faithful wife and mother, her devotion to
the Latter-day work was manifest in her daily life. As a
member of our Relief Society, she was faithful to every
duty, and it can truly be said she was beloved by all who
had the pleasure of her acquaintance. Her seat in our
Relief Society meetings was never vacant while her health
would permit her attend; she was richly endowed with
the gifts of the Gospel—tongues, interpretation and
prophecy—which in many cases has been literally fulfilled.
She leaves a husband, seven children, forty-nine grand-
children and five great-grandchildren. May they have
sufficient of the Spirit and power of God to enable them to
follow in her footsteps and emulate her noble example.
		M. PlTCHFORTH.

	Rest in peace, then, dearest sister,
		All thy earthly cares are o'er;
	O, the many loved ones waiting
		For thee on the other shore.

	Oh, what joy will fill thy bosom,
		Mingling with the good and true I
	Peace and rest will be thy portion,
		Heavenly blessings wait for you.

			M. P.


R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO,
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

