The Scenic West and Its Natural Resources It is said that the Swiss people were oblivious to the beauty of their country until the tourist went in and discovered the beauty for them. It seems rather certain that the people of southern Utah in the region of Zion's Canyon, Bryce Canyon and Cedar Breaks have not appreciated in full the beauty of that region, and that history is daily repeating itself, in that people are constantly going into that country who are loud in their praises of the beauty of color and form found in these lovely canyons of southern Utah and northern Arizona, including, of course, the Grand Canyon of Colorado and the Kaibab Forest. We are personally acquainted with a physician now practicing in one of the cities of northern Utah who, as a boy, herded cows in and around Bryce Canyon, who never dreamed that there was anything superior about it. It is said of the man after whom the canyon is named that he suggested that it might be very beautiful to look at, but that it was most inconvenient to herd cows in as they usually succeeded in getting lost. Other expressions similar to this might be quoted were it necessary to support the idea that the growth of appreciation for the natural beauty of these places has developed rather slowly. At this writing we have in our state Dr. Cowles, a plant ecologist, from the University of Chicago, who is giving a course in the summer school being conducted at Aspen Grove in Provo Canyon. Dr. Cowles is widely traveled, both in the United States and in Europe. He has been this summer to Zion, Bryce and Cedar Breaks, and the Grand Canyon of Colorado and the famous Kaibab Forest. In speaking to Mr. E. S. Hinckley, who is especially interested at the present time in making manifest to people some of the beauties of this western country, he said, "You people don't advertise your state enough. So far as I am personally concerned, I should put the scenery of southern' Utah, including the Grand Canyon of Colorado and the Kaibab Forest, ahead of anything for scenic beauty I have yet noted." Evidence is not lacking that this country is coming to its own, so far as its natural beauty is concerned. The press of the East has been more generous than usual, in playing up the scenic beauty of Utah, and the recent visit of the late President Harding to the south has drawn the attention of people all over the country to some of the wonder spots of the West. Of course the automobile, the railroads, and the splendid roads that have

 been built through the state and into the canyon, must not be ignored as they are important factors in drawing to the attention of people the beauties so long hidden in the mountain fastnesses in remote parts of the state. ~~ What is true of the south is true in very large measure of all the state. There is not the superb coloring in many of the canyons of the north that is found in these canyons of the south, but there are always other features to commend them, such as beautiful trees, flowers of many hues, and attractive waterfalls. In these particulars the canyons of the north resemble very much the mountainous country of S'witzerland. The canyons of Utah as a whole are a sesame of treasures that delight the eye and the heart of all who come in contact with them.. Not long ago, Mr. Paul L. Newmyer, in addressing a business group of Salt Lake City, featured the resources and beauties of Utah in the following items: Utah Has iron ore enough in one county to relay every mile of railroad in the United States and rebuild every steel structure in the country. Has salt enough, in one county alone, to supply the present population of the world with a quarter of a pound a day for over a hundred years. Has the largest open cut copper mine in the world, -and other copper properties not yet developed. Has the largest body of salt water in the world. Has the largest fresh water lake west of the Mississippi. Will raise enough fruit in 1923 to supply every person in the United States with a half-pound each. One county alone in Utah will this year ship 15,000 cars of fruits, vegetables and sugar. Zion National Park and Bryce Canyon are among the world's greatest scenic wonders. The State has already discovered more than 500,000,000 tons of coal, enough to supply the present population of the state for 50,000 years. Utah has black marble enough to build a column 1.7 feet thick from the earth to the moon. Has granite and sandstone enough to rebuild every structure in the United States and Europe, and that is of the finest quality. Has enough cement stone to build a highway from New York to San Francisco fifty feet wide and a foot thick.