Ninety-Four Years Young
By J. A. Washburn
With eyes slightly dimmed but a memory grown brighter with years, Aunt Mary greeted her visitor with her characteristic smile. Though ninety-four years have passed over her head, her slight figure is straight and her step light. Dates and happenings of the distant past were recalled as vividly as those of yesterday.
"I wait upon myself," she said as she busied herself about her clean, snug little cottage at the corner of town. But she does more, for she always has time to take part in the joys and sorrows of both the young and the old. Dispensing cheer and encouragement is as natural to her as for the sun to radiate light.
Mary Shumway Westover was born in Massachusetts, October 27, 1835. At the age of seven she moved with her parents to Nauvoo, Illinois, where she passed through the trying experiences incident to the Mormon persecutions of those days. Though but a slip of a girl, those trying scenes are stamped upon her memory with a clearness that time cannot erase.
To the question, "Do you remember the Prophet Joseph Smith," she answered? "I remember him well. I loved to be in his presence and hear him speak. Once I heard him preach at the funeral of a man (King Follett) who had been killed while working on the temple. The funeral was held in a grove and the rain began coming down in torrents. As the people began moving away to find shelter, the Prophet promised that if they would remain quiet and pray in their hearts, the storm would cease. Then I saw through a break in the trees that the clouds were dividing. The rain stopped falling at the grove though it seemed to be pouring down all around. I knew then, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet."
She laughed as she told this little story which was current in Nauvoo. "It was a time when the Prophet was in hiding from his enemies, and the officers were in town looking for him. They saw a little boy flying a kite and asked him if he knew where Joseph Smith was. The lad replied, 'He went to heaven this morning on Uncle Hyrum's gray mare, and I am sending up his dinner on this kite'."
"I remember the time," she continued, "when father returned from the meeting where Brigham Young was transfigured. Mother and I did not go to meeting that day but father told us all about it. That is not just an idle story. It really happened, for my father saw it and told us at the time.
"I attended one dedicational service at the Nauvoo temple, but I do not remember which room. The thing I remember best about the temple is the twelve large oxen on which the font rested.