VOL. XVII MARCH, 1930 NO. 3
EDITORIAL
A Hundred Years of Progress for Women
One of the things Relief Society workers know best is that when on March 17, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the association he said he had turned the key for women. With this anniversary issue, of the Centenary Year, it should be interesting to cast about and see what evidence there is of the fulfillment of this prophecy.
In the first place, through modern invention, wives and mothers have been much relieved in their household duties. The energy of women has been released for better things, provided she chooses these better things. Recently we met a young mother returning home at 10 o'clock in the morning. She said "I am just coming from a class in child nutrition, one of my chief concerns these days."
Nevertheless, in our modern world, home is not the only place where women serve children. Women are found in laboratories, where they are working out nutrition problems for the guidance of mothers in the rearing of their children. In a recent experience we watched a college professor standing over a group of poorly nourished children in one of our educational institutions, giving to them all the advantage of her unusual training, in order that their bodies might be built up, their mental power stimulated, and their joy in life increased.
Another matter of interest is that women have done very conspicuous work out of the home during the century. We select a few examples at random: Susan B. Anthony, headed the movement that resulted in women obtaining their suffrage; Francis Willard prepared the Nation for
130
prohibition; Clara Barton gave America its vision of Red Cross work. Jane Addams is conspicuous as a leader in social work; Charlotte Perkins Gillman is a philosopher; while lady Nancy Astor is a member of the British Parliament, and Ruth Bryan Owen a member of the Congress of the United States. Mabel Walker Willebrandt was Attorney General, and Florence Allen is Judge of the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio. Mary E. Woolley is a College President; while Ella Flagg Young was Superintendent of Schools in Chicago. Such names as Edna St. Vincent
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Millay and Rachel Crothers give evidence of the ability of women in literature, while the names of Dr. Florence R. Sabin and Dr. Alice Hamilton tell of their achievements in science. Maude Adams, Jane Cowle, Geraldine Farrar, and Mary Garden, proclaim woman's prominence in drama and opera. Our readers will wish to add many names to the list of women in art, and we shall be highly gratified to know that they are indulging in so pleasant a pastime. It is interesting to realize that two of the women mentioned herein were born in Utah.