National Council of Women of the United States—Biennial Meeting
Amy Brown Lyman.
The National Council of Women of the United States held its fifteenth biennial meeting in New York City, November 4-9, 1929. Under the leadership of Dr. Valeria H. Parker, the president, delegates from twenty-four affiliated national organizations assembled, for conference and deliberation.
The Place and The People
In addition to the national officers and delegates the Council was honored by having in attendance Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer, Honorary Vice President; Mrs. W. E. Sanford, of Hamilton, Canada, Treasurer of the International Council of Women; and Madam Laura Dreyfus-Barney, Vice Convenor of the Peace and Arbitration Committee, of the International Council of Women.
Two Latter-day Saint organizations were represented: Relief Society—President Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. James H. Moyle, Mrs. Howard R. Driggs; Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association — President Ruth May Fox, Miss Elva Moss, Miss Margaret Newman, Mrs. Frances Kirkham.
The meetings were held at the Home Making Center, Grand Central Palace, 480 Lexington Avenue, where the new office of the National Council is located, and where the large auditorium, banquet hall and committee rooms were tendered the Council free of charge. The Home Making Center was established quite recently by the New York State Federation of Women's Clubs, as a laboratory for studying problems related to the home and to family life. It occupies the entire tenth floor of the Grand Central Palace. Here conferences and demonstrations are held to promote activities in which women are interested, and there is on display in the various rooms almost every type of equipment for the home,—displays from forty-three nations, and all but two of the States.
Through the generosity of the New York State Federations of Women's Clubs, the National Council of the United States, early in 1929, was offered office space in the Home Making Center free of charge. The offer was accepted with gratitude and appreciation, and in March 1929, the headquarters of the Council were moved to this location. Mrs. Sarah D. Gregory, who conceived the idea of the Home Making Center, and is now its educational director, had in early life been a close personal friend and admirer of Mrs. May Wright Sewell, one of the founders of the Council, and she was instrumental in bringing about the action which resulted in this offer to the National Council from the New York State Federation. The office of the Council is spacious and attractive, with a full-time secretary in charge. It was a most convenient and home-like place for delegates to meet informally as well as by appointment, to exchange views and gather information regarding the National Council and
126
its affiliated groups, the International Council of Women, and women's organizations generally.
The sessions consisted of two meetings for executive officers, two board meetings, three business meetings for official delegates only, and thirteen general sessions.
Work of the Sessions.
The opening session was the most interesting meeting, with the President's address and the five-minute reports of the Presidents of the Member-Societies. Dr. Parker, reviewed and commented upon President Hoover's proposed White House Conference on Child Welfare, and the cooperation which the Planning Committee of the Conference desires of the National Council; the work being done in the interest of World Peace; the Prohibition movement, also the importance of the full support of the women of the nation in this task; the tariff question, which should be studied by the women of the nation. She spoke against companionate and child marriage, and made a plea for clean family life, a single moral standard, the elimination of the triangle and the substitution of the circle; for marriage based upon good health, good morals, and economic understanding.
The reports of the Presidents indicated that the women of the Council are actively interested in promoting movements for the raising of health, living and working standards. The reports of Presidents Louise Y. Robison and Ruth May Fox were enthusiastically received.
The Forums covered the following subjects: Child Welfare, Education; Music; Motion Pictures; Public Health; Social Hygiene; Permanent Peace; Law Enforcement;
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Industrial Relations; Radio; Publicity. Many speakers of prominence appeared upon the programs: Dr. Harry A. Overstreet, of the Department of Philosophy of the College of the City of New York; Henry W. Thurston, Head of Child Welfare Department, New York School of Social Work; Don C. Seitz, Editor of the "Outlook"; Dr. C. E. A. Winslow, Professor of Public Health, Yale University; Dr. William F. Snow, General Director, American Social Hygiene Association; Mrs. Laura Puffer Morgan, National Council for Prevention of War.
Chief Topics In Brief
Dr. Overstreet said the central thought in education today is to teach power of mind. The awakened mind will find a way. Students should be judged by their power of mind rather than by the amount of information they possess.
Dr. Seitz criticized the types of pictures shown and the promotion method used by the picture industry for getting people, and especially children, to attend the theatre. He said the picture industry has but one standard—'are the seats filled?' He recommended federal supervision.
Dr. Winslow held that a yearly medical examination should be made possible for everybody; "to cure" is the voice of the past, "to prevent" is the voice of today. He urged a universal study of mental hygiene.
Dr. Andrews, secretary of the American Association for Labor Legislation, stated that the cost of accidents that are borne by industry, should include, in addition to broken machinery, broken bones; also that "slow poison" should be included.
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
Proceedings at the Banquet.
The chief social function of the convention was the International Banquet. At the speaker's table were seated the honored guests, the speakers of the evening, and the officers of the Council. The invocation was pronounced by the Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer. Dr. Parker, toastmistress, presented the speakers: "The International Council of Women"—Madame Laura Dreyfus Barney, Vice-Convenor, Peace and Arbitration Committee, International Council of Women; "The Responsibility of Women in International Affairs"—Mrs. Laura Puffer Morgan, Chairman, Committee of Permanent Peace, National Council of Women: "An Advocacy of Protective Tariff" — Representative Franklin W. Fort of New Jersey; "An Opposition to Protective Tariff—Philip LeBoutillier, President, National Merchants Retail Association; "The Foundation of Creative Peace"—Eduard C. Lindeman, New York School of Social Work; "Our Children—The World's Greatest Asset"—Dr. H. E. Barnard, Director Planning Committee White House Conference on Child Welfare.
Madame Dreyfus-Barney brought greetings from the International Council. Mrs. Morgan spoke in the interest of permanent peace, pointing out how women could promote the movement. Dr. Barnard stated that after three months of preparatory work the President's Planning Committee for the White House Conference of Child Health and Protection is ready to function, and is about to begin the most sweeping study of
127
child welfare that has ever been made.
For Protection of the Child
The whole problem of child health and protection is divided, Dr. Barnard reported, into four sections. The first of these is medical service. Which is to be headed by Dr. Samuel M. Hamill of Philadelphia. His work divided into three subsections: one on pre-natal and maternal care. One on medical care of children, and one on growth and development. The second section, public health service and administration, has Surgeon-general Hugh S. Cummings at its head, and consists of three subsections: public health organizations, communicable disease control, and milk production and control. Section three is to be devoted to education and training, and is headed by Dr. F. J. Kelley. It has six sub-sections: the family and parent education, the infant and pre-school child, the school child, vocational guidance, child labor, recreation and physical education, and special classes. Section four is to devote to the handicapped child, considering prevention, maintenance and protection. At its head is C. C. Carstens, director of the Child Welfare League of America. His work has four subsections: State and local organizations for the handicapped, a study of the physically and mentally deficient, of delinquency, and of the dependent child.
Social and Official
Two other interesting social events were the teas given respectively by Mrs. Otto H. Kahn, and Mrs. James D. Laidlaw, in honor
128
of the board members. It was a rare treat to view the beautiful art collection in the Kahn mansion, at 1100 Fifth Avenue, and to meet the charming wife of the great philanthropist. The Utah delegates were entertained at dinner at the home of President and Mrs. James H. Moyle and at the home of Dr. And Mrs. Howard R. Driggs.
At the last business session the Conference discussed the matter of appointing delegates to the Quinquennial Meeting of the International Council of Women, to be held in Vienna in May 1930. The election of officers for the biennial period 1929-1931 resulted as follows: President — Mrs. Frances P. Parks, of New York City. First Vice-President, Mrs. Theodore J. Louden, Bloomington, Ind. Second Vice-President, Miss Lena M. Phillips, New York City. Third Vice-President, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Salt Lake City, Ut. Fourth Vice-President, Mrs. Sally W. Stewart, Chicago, Ill. Corresponding Secretary, Mrs. Glenn L. Swiggett, Washington, D. C. Recording Secretary, Mrs. Estelle M. Sternberger, New York City. Treasurer, Mrs. Alfred G. Wilson, Detroit, Michigan. Auditor, Dr. M. J. Bush, Philadelphia.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Just a bad cold —due to overheating!
A COMMON winter ailment —in homes heated by old- fashioned methods
Four out of ten men and seven out of ten women are incapacitated by colds each winter. School children are similarly affected. Medical experts say over 50 per cent of these cases can be prevented. They point out that most colds are caused by sharply fluctuating temperatures—a common condition in homes heated by old-fashioned methods.
Natural GAS THE IDEAL FUEL offers the remedy
Healthful, automatic Natural Gas heat can be installed in one day. Your home will be kept warm in the meantime. Call, phone or write for full details today.
If it's done with heat, you can do it better with Natural Gas
Utah Gas & Coke Co. Ogden Gas Co. Wasatch Gas Co.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - General Secretary and Treasurer