131
Autumn
By Josephine M. Duncan. Second Honorable Mention in the Eliza R. Snow Contest.
A dreamy haze hangs in the air; And like a sunbeam bright and fair, The goldenglow in royal state Raises its head beside the gate; Smiling and basking in the sun And one by one? Wearying of their colors old, The green leaves barter them for gold And crimson hues. The shocks of wheat To make the color scheme complete In regal pride And side by side Now stand in yellow splendor while They glory in fair Autumn's smile. Upon the hill The sheep no longer graze at will. We marvel at the azure sky With fleecy clouds that hasten by. We revel in the beauty of This last sad season that we love, Because we know that soon the pall Of winter will be over all. Then no regrets can change again The drifting snow to gentle rain. And no repinings can recall The asters by the garden wall, Or coax the brilliant golden glow From its warm bed beneath the snow. Then let our hearts with joy be filled For fruitful fields that have been tilled By toil worn hands. And let us praise Our maker for his wondrous ways. Let us thank Him with heads bent low For summer rain and winter snow. And when the Harvest time is past And bleak December comes at last, Then let us lift our hearts and cry A song of praise to God on high.
Guide Lessons for May
LESSON 1
Theology and Testimony (First Week in May)
BOOK OF MORMON
Lesson 8: ALMA THE YOUNGER
This lesson covers the material found in the Book of Mormon between page 251 and page 282. It is a section of the life of one of the most remarkable men that ever lived in the flesh?Alma the Younger, the Saint Paul of the Book of Mormon.
The Matter of this lesson falls naturally into two parts, both of which are extraordinary in their character. Briefly stated these two divisions run as follows:
The Narrative. Leaving Zarahemla after his reorganization of the Church there, Alma betook himself to the Gideonites, who lived on "the east side of the river Sidon" (wherever that was). He preached to these people with such success that he "established the order of the Church" there. Thence he crossed the river and visited the Melekites, with even greater effect, for we are informed that "they were baptized throughout all the land." Leaving the people of Melek and traveling "three days' journey" northward on the same side of Sidon, he arrived at Ammonihah. Here the people resisted his teaching, expelled him from their borders, and, when he returned another way at the command of an angel, imprisoned both him and Amulek, a native convert. Some were converted, however, and left the place but subsequently the entire population of this disreputable land was wiped out by Lamanites and its buildings razed. Ever afterwards it was called the Desolation of Nehors. Alma, with his converts, returned to Zarahemla.
Alma's Teachings
The doctrines taught at these three places may be grouped as follows: First, the ideas revolving about the name of Christ. It must be kept in mind that Alma lived in the last century of the Old Era, before the advent of Jesus. This is why these ideas are remarkable. Alma taught that Jesus would be born in Palestine, that his mother would bear the name of Mary, that he would be called the Son of God, being "conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost," that he would "take upon himself the pains and sicknesses of his people," that he would "loose the bonds of death" and redeem mankind, and that he would visit the Nephites. Second, the ideas that cluster about life here below. These are, in general, faith, repentance, and good works. Not only in the three places mentioned but everywhere he went, he preached against "all lying, and deceivings, and envying, and strifes, and malice, and revilings, and stealing, robbing, plundering, murdering, adultery, and all manner of lasciviousness," and urged a life full of good deeds. Third, the resurrection. This was to be very literal. The spirit and the body were to be reunited in "perfect form," as at present, and we should have "a bright recollection of all our guilt." Moreover, the next life would be dependent on what we thought and did and said in this life, for those who were "filthy" here would be "filthy" there. As through Adam death come to all men, so through Christ eternal life would come to all, and exaltation to those who sought it in faith and righteousness.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY
Outline.
I. Narrative of events.
1. In Gideon a. Where Gideon was. b. Alma's work there. c. Results
2. In Mulek a. Where Mulek was. b. Alma's work there c. Results.
3. In Ammonihah. a. Where the place was. b. Atheistic conditions there c. Alma and Amulek. d. What happened to these two there. e. Results. (1). To those who repented (2). To Zeezrom (3). To the place and people generally.
II. Teachings.
1. Concerning Christ. a. His earthly ministry. b. His birth and character. c. His work for mankind. d. After his resurrection.
2. Concerning this life. a. Principles and ordinances b. Conduct.
133
3. The resurrection. a. Its literalness. b. By whom brought about. c. Conditions of eternal life (1). General salvation (2). Personal salvation.
Observations.
1. Paul and Alma: Careful readers of the Book of Mormon have observed the similarity between the Apostle Paul and Alma, in the details of their lives, their intellect, and their vast energy. Paul's life fell in the first century after Christ, that of Alma in the first century before Christ. Both, apparently, were well educated after the manner of their times, although Paul was most likely the greater scholar. In both lives the crisis was a vision?a vision of an angel to the Nephite and of the risen Lord to the Jew; and in both, this meant a turning in their lives, a change from foes of the Christian ideal into powerful champions of the faith. The American, like the European, suffered shame, violence, and imprisonment for his advocacy of the Cause. Only, in the case of the former his devotion was crowned with translation of the body, and in the latter with martyrdom.
Intellectually Paul and Alma were the outstanding men in Christian and Nephite thought respectively. Of Paul we need say nothing more here, for the world over he is recognized as the most powerful influence, after Jesus himself, in the shaping of the new faith. Our concern here is chiefly with Alma. Alma had a grasp of the truths of revealed religion that is not excelled by that of Paul, and certainly his expression of them is superior to Paul's in clearness. His thought is not as involved in refinements
 
and subtleties as that of the Apostle to the Gentiles. But that, maybe, is due to the fact that there were no heathen philosophies at work among the Nephites, with their abstractions and man-made reasonings. And then too the Nephites stuck more closely to the fundamentals of the faith than the Jew?which involves us in fewer theological entanglements.
There is a close resemblance too in the intense missionary zeal of the two men. In a previous lesson we called attention to the strange fact that converts to religious truth, nearly always feel impelled, as by some external force, to see that others are brought "into the light". In no historical character is this spirit more dominant than in the two men we are now considering. Their consuming devotion to the task of disseminating their faith is what is often turned fanaticism by an outsider. In Alma and Paul however it seems to be due partly to an effort to make up for lost time, when they were engaged in opposing what they afterwards advocated, but partly to their native energy.
2. Alma's Times: In the present lesson, we get several glimpses into the social and political conditions during this period. As we already have seen, the Nephites were living under a kind of democracy instead of a monarchy. At the time which we have reached in this lesson they had been living thus for ten years. Their government was of the simplest kind, being a judgeship. There was a chief judge, with what we may term district and local judges, all elected by the people. Misdemeanors on the part of these various officials were provided against by making the lower judges answerable to the chief justice and the chief judge amenable to a court of lesser judges. But a principal defect in the system, it seems, was that these officers were paid, not a stipulated salary, but an amount in proportion to the time they put in. And so it happened sometimes, as at Ammonihah, that a corrupt judge would increase his income by "stirring up the people to riotings and all manner of disturbances." Thus it was that Amulek could truthfully say to the people of his native city, "The foundation of the destruction of this people is beginning to be laid by the unrighteousness of your lawyers and your judges."
For the Nephites had lawyers as well as judges. One of these was Zeezrom. And if we may judge the rest of the legal lights among the Nephites by this man, they were a shrewd lot, with their eye open to the main chance. Zeezrom was not only a sharp inquisitor, as his questioning of Alma and Amulek shows, but he was not above both bribery and deception. At least he tried these on this occasion. It happened however that he was caught himself in the trap he had laid for the prophets.
It is in this lesson also that we obtain most of our information about the monetary system of the Nephites. The historian tells us the relative, but not the absolute, values of the coins they used. Gold and silver seem to have been the only metals used for coins. Until the times of the Judges the standard of "reckoning and measure" changed "according to the minds and the circumstances of the people in every generation," till the time of Mosiah, when these were permanently established, Elder George Reynolds
135
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY
was of the opinion that the names of these coins "were identical with or derived from, those of familiar persons or places." And that may easily be the case, for with the Nephites proper names, especially of persons, appear to have been the starting point of many things. Their cities and "lands" derived their names, for the most part, from the names of the first settler of consequence there.
Also we gather from the material in this lesson and other lessons that the Nephites had jails, arresting officials, criminals, freedom of speech and action up to a given point. And then too they had, especially at such places as Ammonihah, evil-minded men who played upon the masses and used them to attain their own purposes in politics and private life. All of which goes to show that human nature is at bottom much the same in one place as another, in one age of the world as another.
3. Zeezrom and Amulek: That Nephite society abounded in minor interesting characters is evident from the rather accidental appearance of Zeezrom and Amulek in the narrative. For we must never forget that the purpose of all the writers of the Book of Mormon was not to give a complete, even though brief, history of its peoples but rather to outline God's dealings with the Nephites and Jaredites.
Zeezrom was a lawyer?and a sharp one. If it were not for his questioning Alma and Amulek on the occasion of their visit to Ammonihah, we might never have known that the Nephites had lawyers. At the core Zeezrom was a good man, notwithstanding his attempt at deception and bribery on this occasion.
135
He may have thought at first that he was doing his people a service in "exposing" the preachers, Alma and Amulek. But when his purpose was detected, he saw the light, and altered his conduct accordingly. His extreme mental anguish later, when he imagined that his actions had led to the probable death of the two men, also shows that his natural disposition was good.
Amulek was one of Ammonihah's rich men. We are not told how he became such except that it was by his "industry." It is interesting to know that he was a lineal descendant of Nephi?of which he appears to have been proud. Also he was "a man of no small reputation" in his community, as he himself tells his fellow townsmen. This reputation may have been due to his wealth or to his family, or to both. At all events, he seems to have been a man of some character, to judge by his manner of address. He charges himself with having neglected to avail himself of the opportunity to become familiar with the Lord's "mysteries and marvelous power." But if so, it does not take him long to make up for these lost opportunities, for under the teaching of Alma, he learns very rapidly. And the fine courage he displays in his preaching matches Alma's own. He is a good example of the minor prophet among the Nephites.
Questions.
1. Give the story part of this lesson.
2. Tell what it says about. A. Christ. B. What we are to do here and now. C. The resurrection.
3. Who was Zeezrom? Amulek?
136
4. Where were these places with respect to the river Sidon; Gideon, Melek, Ammonihah?
5. Why is Alma called the Paul of the Book of Mormon.
6. What does the phrase "my women" mean to you in Alma Chapter 10, verse 11?
7. What are the political and social conditions of this period?
 . What happened to Ammonihah?
References
Book of Mormon, pages 251-282. Reynolds's "Dictionary of the Book of Mormon," under Alma, Ammonihah, Zeezrom, Amulek. Evans's "Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon," pages 168-177.
LESSON 2
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPICS (Second Week in May)
Courtesy
Courtesy is the heir-loom of civilization. As far back as the days of knighthood there were prevailing courtesies which have come down to us. The knights raised their visors in acknowledgment of friends even as our gentlemen of today raise their hats in courteous recognition of friends and acquaintances. 2. Courtesy is consideration for others, that is: 1. Careful thoughtfulness of others. 2. The-will to do for others the things you would have others do for you. 3. The will to say to others the pleasant, courteous thing you would have others say to you. 4. Forgetfulness of self. 3. 'What some noted people have thought of courtesy. Confucius, the Chinese sage, considered courtesy a requisite of virtue. Virtue in itself was not enough without politeness. He "saw courtesies as coming from the heart," maintaining that "when they are practiced with all the heart a moral elevation ensues." W. E. Gladstone said to his countrymen, "Let us respect the ancient manners, and recollect that if the true soul of chivalry has died among us, with it all that is good in society has died." Lord Chesterfield in one of the famous "Letters to His Son" said, "Moral virtues are the foundation of society in general, and of friendship in particular; but attentions, manners, and graces both adorn and strengthen them." Samuel Smiles writes, "A man's manner, to a certain extent, indicates his character. It is the external exponent of his inner nature." "Manners are not idle, but the fruit of noble nature and of loyal mind." ?Tennyson. "A beautiful behavior is better than a beautiful form; it gives a higher pleasure than statues and pictures; it is the finest of the fine arts."?Emerson, GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY "Manners are often too much neglected; they are most important to men, no less than to women? Life is too short to get over a bad manner; besides, manners are the shadows of virtues."?Rev. Sidney Smuth. 4, Some well known examples of courtesy. 1. The pleasant, cheery, short visit to the sick room, or the bouquet of flowers. 2. The glass of jelly, the unexpected dinner; the magazine or book to the kept-in. 3. All of the acts of neighborliness in times of trouble or sorrow, where self is in the background. 4. Behavior on the street, sidewalk, or public places. A. The low tone of voice?the quiet laugh. Avoid the "loud laugh that speaks the vacant mind." b. Avoid blocking traffic. C. Keeping in line in purchasing tickets, in getting or sending mail; at voting places. D. Not jostling in a crowd nor elbowing one's way through. (Get through by courteous apologies for necessary haste. ) e. Carrying umbrellas so as not to annoy others. (Scraping the feet in walking is considered boorish.) f. Applauding without stamping or whistling. G. Eating or chewing where others are not participating is discourteous and rude. H. A gentleman offering his seat to a lady, or a younger petson to an older is still considered an act of courteSy, 137 5. Courtesy a mark of culture. 1. Courtesies are the rules of the cultural life and must be followed if we would play the game. 2. The old courtesies or manners were based upon the Christian principles of unselfishness. 3. Money or position is not a prerequisite for gentle manners but rather, "that instinctive yearning of mankind for a system of life regulated by good taste, high intelligence, and sound affections." 4, In this age of worship of the "Golden Calf," almost anything can be bought and sold; but even as the veneers are detected from the real polished woods, so insincere manners lack the genuineness which make the best society. "The best society is not a fellowship of the wealthy nor does it seek to exclude those who are not of exalted birth; it is an association of gentle-folk, in which good form in speech, charm of manner, knowledge of social pleasantness, and instinctive consideration for the feelings of others, are the credentials by which society the world over recognizes its chosen members. 6. The span of Courtesy.. Parents and children. Brothers and sisters. Friends, loved ones, and acquaintances. Employers and Employees. The ward members and the officers. The governed and the governor. The President and his people. The King and his subjects. Even as "mercy becomes the throned monarch better than his crown" so courtesy exalts all who practice it with full purpose of heart. We why DO) SD  LESSON 3 Literature (Third Week in May) SCHUMANN-HEINK The Last of the Titans. The biography of Madam Schumann-Heink, by Mary Lawton, is more than a biography of a single woman?it is, like all good biographies, a biography of her times as well. And what a biography it really is! Across the pages of the book walk some of the greatest figures of the past half century. Not only do we catch glimpses of the great musicians of her time with whom the singer was on intimate terms, but in addition we behold the Kaiser, King Edward of England, Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, William Howard Taft, and other statesmen who have had much to do with the shifting policies of the world. These great characters, of course, do not appear exactly as they are. Each is seen through Madam Schumann-Heink's eyes; therefore, we not only see them as she saw them, but through them we see other sides of her that might not have been revealed in any other manner. One of the publicists of the book company has this to say: "Mary Lawton has not only told the story of this great career with captivating charm, but she has given us, as well, rare and amusing anecdotes of other notables of the time. A brilliant panorama! The rich and the poor, the great and the small, kings and queens, singers, composers, violinists and pianists, writers and painters, the butcher, the baker, the candle-stick maker?one and all ?Schumann-Heink runs the gamut! From the fat old grocery woman who demanded a dance in exchange for a piece of cheese? to the Emperor who bestowed a decoration! From the poor ropemaker's little boy who brings her a glass of Jamaica ginger for the stomach ache?to Queen Victoria. From the sick, starving baby in the theatre, that she nursed back to life?to the Empress of Germany! And from cleaning monkey cages in a circus for her dinner?to our own President Roosevelt! All these pass before us, one by one, in this amazing human narrative." Besides the numerous notables mentioned in the book, whose pictures are not given, there are the following whose pictures are given or whose likeness, snapshots only however, are presented to the delighted reader. These snaps are all colored by Madam SchumannHeink's humor, her admiration, her reverence, or love. Like the painted portrait of men and women, they reveal the great men and women truly, but in addition, they reveal the painter as well. We see the soul of the - Madam in each one. I have taken the trouble to page the photograph or the written picture of twenty-five of these famous people. It is by belief that an excellent lesson in musical and political history can be had from going over the most important of these. In most cases where the photograph of the person is given, there will be found on nearby pages Madam GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY Schumann-Heink's word portraits of the individual so deftly caught and recorded by Mary Lawton. (I am using the order used by the book company in a four page leaflet concerning the book, which they issued at the time of its publication ) A Gallery of Notables Lilli: Lehmann, p. 178; Cosima Wagner, p. 261; Enrico Caruso, 298; Hans Von Bulow, 78; Pol Plancon, 82; Lillian Nordica, 215: Marie Wilt, 233; Amelia Materna, 231; Edouard De Reska, 239; Jean De Reska, 241; Paul Schumann, 119; Marcella Sembrich, 292; Hans Richter, 319; Richard Strauss, 323; Johann Brahms, 355; Gustave Mahler, 359; Richard Wagner, 364; Anton Rubenstein, 379; President 'Wilson; President Taft, 284; King Edward VII, 247-48. Empress Frederick; President Roosevelt, 279 and 286; Maurice Grau, 137; and William Jennings Bryan. That is an imposing list. Few people ever have the opportunity of coming in contact with so many great ones, yet this is but a partial list of those mentioned in the book; and the book itself contains, of course, only a partial list of those who have crossed the path of this great woman. In her account of these acquaintanceships, one catches a glimpse of the fine, humble spirit of the Madam. He sees her praising not only her friends but her rivals; he sees her standing respectfully in the presence of the President of the United States in the face of his request that she sit; he sees her admiration, her gratitude. From these glimpses he surely gets some idea of why common soldiers dared call her the greatest contralto of her time and one of the greatest of all time and a 139 prima donna who has sung before kings and presidents, Mother Schumann-Heink. During the class it would be well in those wards where there are portable Victrolas to have played some of Schumann-Heink's records. Where it is impossible to secure the services of a Victrola, local singers, contraltos, preferably, might be induced to sing some of the songs which she especially loved. Some of the simple songs mentioned in the book upon the pages recorded here are: "The Rosary," p. 324; "The Lord Is Mindful Of His Own," p 329; "Silent Night," "La Paloma," p. 327; and "The Lost Chord." Her reaction to American jazz and prohibition can be found on pages 332-339, Her attitude toward the home is given succinctly: "The fact is?say what you will to excuse it, about the high cost of living?women today don't want a home. Now, every man does want and expect a home when he marries. That is what he marries for?a home and children. Let the women look to it that a happy home life exists, for that is what keeps the nation up. And here is something else?and you needn't laugh at me?but cooking is one of the main contributions to a happy home. I'll bet that no man will laugh at this (if any man ever reads it!) You may call me old-fashioned; well, if that is oldfashioned, then thank God. I am!" The following articles which deal with Madam Schumann-Heink may be available to some of the wards: "Schumann-Heink, The Last of The Titans'"?Good Housekeeping, 84: 16-19 (This is the book as it appeared in magazine form.) "Why I Live In California," by W. F. Minor, Sunset, October '28; "Lesson of Madam Schumann-Heink for 140 Rising Stars'?Literary Digest, Jan. 8, 1927. "Marion Tully and Older"?Nation, March 24, 1926; Portrait 'Erd's Farewell"?Literary Digest, March 23, 1929; "He. Roic Figure", O, G. Villard?Nation, 128, p. 401-02, April 3, 1929; "Opera's Favorite" ?- Commonwealth, 10-166, June 12, 1929; and as another view of Mary Lawton's ability as a biographer of the reporter type, "A Lifetime With Mark Twain," by Mary Lawton, a book published by Harcourt, Brace, and Company, New York. Questions and Problems 1. Some one -has said, "Miss Lawton has preserved the homely idiom and the delightful broken English in telling this story of Schumann-Heink." Do you like that or not? Give your reasons? 2. The same person said, "Mary Lawton has given us far more than RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a biography, for she has accomplished a miracle, and has deftly pinned the famous singer to the printed page where SchumannHeink herself seems actually to live and talk for us." What device did Mary Lawton use to accomplish this result? Do you believe the statement to be true? 3. In what ways do Madam Schumann-Heink's remarks about other people reveal her own soul? Does that apply to us also when we speak of others? 4, Why do these characters which throng the pages of the book not appear as they actually are? Can any characters so revealed by any human being appear as they are? Is that fact a limitation of the biographer? 5. In reality, would you call this a biography or an autobiography? Why? LESSON 4 Social Service (Fourth Week in May) Lesson 5?CRIME AND DELINQUENCY In this lesson we propose to deal with crime and delinquency, one of the most important branches of social and public welfare work. The materials presented here do not, of course, do justice to the subject. Class leaders, stake supervisors and others will therefore do well to consult any of the standard works on the subject which might be available in their local libraries. Two of the most reliable books on the subject are the following: Gillin, J. L., Crimminology and Penology (Century, 1926). Burt, Cyril, The Young Deliyquent (Appleton, 1925). 1. The Nature and Extent of Crime. Accurate data regarding the nature and extent of crime are practically impossible to get. In the first place, not all of the crime that is committed is reported to the police. Furthermore, the crimes which are reported are rarely ever tabulated for the public's use.