A Widow's Protective League
By Elizabeth Cannon Porter
To keep widows from being imposed upon and to educate them in the handling of their finances, is the object of the Widow's Protective League organized in Los Angeles three years ago. Realizing that the weakness of women through the ages has been a lack of organization, it aims to supply a need. The movement is being taken up in other cities and states, and will eventually be national in its scope.
Unscrupulous persons who expect perquisites through dealing with women unused to business responsibilities find the League a check on their operations. Also, by re-financing, it has done much to remove that age-old bugbear of widows? foreclosed mortgages.
A widow who had been injured in a traffic accident found her case being postponed and delayed day after day, with the result that she was nearly fainting on her crutches. The League's Legal Committee, composed of nine women garbed in black and white, attended the trial, succeeded in having the case speeded up, and the woman won her award.
An aged lady who had been traded enough German marks to paper a room in exchange for some perfectly good stock, had the trade reversed through the activity of the League. A prominent business man who had let his notes to a woman become outlawed decided to pay them when the organization took up the matter. He couldn't afford the publicity. It would injure his business reputation.
This Widow's League was instrumental in sending dishonest oil operators to Leavenworth. It led a campaign against loan sharks, reduced usury, investigated a cemetery swindle. Its real estate ramifications are multiple. It investigates the status of bonds and other securities, collect rent, locates people who disappear.
For the education of women it conducted a class in popular law in the evening. One night a month is given to lectures. Among the speakers secured were Georgia Bullock, woman police judge, and Nick Harris, head of a popular detective agency. The latter outlined the career of "Bluebeard" Watson now serving life in the California penitentiary. According to this criminal's confession he had married and victimized thirty-six women. He was finally caught when a "wife" who had let him have $3,600 became suspicious over his frequent absences, and engaged detectives to apprehend him.
The speaker also told the story of the trunk robber. This man had
A WIDOW'S PROTECTIVE LEAGUE
constructed a special trunk in which he had himself hidden and transported to the vaults of a Hollywood Storage Co. His object was to plunder the place and have himself removed, still in the trunk, the next day. He engaged a 17-year-old boy to haul the trunk. They were overheard plotting in a local hotel room with the result that they were arrested. Chandeleria was sent to prison for 7 years. As he had spent 7 years in constructing the ingeniously devised trunk, his wasted effort represented 14 years in all. He might have grown rich in constructive work in that time.
The Widow's Protective League also undertakes reforms in legislation. In Utah a widow can obtain a ten-dollar-a-year rebate on her taxes. In Arizona a widow has $2,500 exempt; that is, she has to pay taxes only on the property over and above that amount. California widows are trying to get a $4,000
163
exemption. Naturally, the large taxpayers and corporations oppose this move.
The colors of the League are black and white. Its insignia is a pin of outspread Egyptian wings? for protection. The applicant pays $5 for her initiation fee and pin. Thereafter she pays $5 a year. This entitles her to free legal advice from the Leagues' Counsel. Where debts are collected by the organization 5% is paid into the treasury for the services.
Women widowed by death or divorce are eligible, but the Widow's Protective League will not handle alimony nor domestic relations cases and thereby probably saves itself a world of trouble.
Lillian Pascal Day, a syndicate writer, inaugurated the movement. The idea grew out of unfortunate experiences of her own widowhood. She is ably assisted by a superb corps of women.