The Life Story of Orson F. Whitney By C. Byron Whitney joes Life Story of a man is generally considered of interest to others in proportion to that man's position or prominence among men. But when the words of the story become a gem of literature, a series of remarkable pen pictures depicting whole communities, a valuable historical record, all setting forth a profound and dynamic sermon on life and love of God and humanity, then that story ceases to be singular as to any man and becomes a thing of deep heart interest to many. Such is the volume recently published under the titleŚ''The Life Story of Orson F. Whitney, as told by himself." Rich in historical lore, deep in human emotion, fervent and convincing in the testimony it bears, yet, withal, sparkling throughout with wit, wisdom, and fine humor, the volume appeals to almost every mood of the reader who seeks and finds the big and noble thought underlying it all. In point of diction, rhetoric, continuity of ideas and mastery of language, it deserves a place among model works of English literature. But it is the heart and soul of the bookŚthe great story it tells, rather than how it tells itŚthat will endear it to the reader long after the few copies now in print are exhausted. Orson F. Whitney, scion of a Pioneer family of the State, and author of Whitney's History of Utah, grew from birth to manhood as a stalwart branch of the great family tree to which he belongs. Intellectually and spiritually gifted, his name stands out amid every worthy endeavor of his peopleŚreligiously, politically, and in advancement of the arts of literature, music and the drama. He holds his present high ecclesiastical position, as a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, in faithfulness and devotion to God, and with the love and respect of his associates and the people in general. His remarkable gifts as writer, poet and public speaker, to say nothing of his pronounced dramatic ability, would long ago have won him worldly fame and fortune, had he not chosen to devote them unselfishly, untiringly, to the spiritual welfare of his loved ones and his fellowmen. That this is purely and solely the underlying motive of his latest literary workŚ his Life Story as told by himselfŚ will be readily recognized by the readers of that very interesting narrative. This publication is not a commercial project in any sense. The sale is not solicited at large. The purpose being to preserve certain experiences and to present principles sacred to the author and others of whom he has written, the distribution is limited and the book procurable only from the author, at a modest price representing actual cost of issuance. It is highly commended by this reviewer to all who feel a sincere and kindly interest in the mighty testimony of a godly man and the interesting story of the remarkable life record of Orson i, Whitney.
