The Indian in the Public Schools
By Marian Gardner Nielson
A new experiment in Indian education is being tried in Blanding, San Juan County, Utah. Here the government has established the first Indian dormitory, where the Indians live away from home and attend the public schools. There are dormitories for Indians at Indian Government schools, on Indian reservations, and at Indian Mission schools, but this is the only dormitory occupied by Indian children going to the public schools. About fifty per cent of the states in the United States accept Indian pupils in their schools. Some of these are: Wisconsin, Minnesota, the Dakotas, Montana, Oregon. New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, and Utah. There are approximately 47,000 Indian pupils in government and mission schools, and about 40,000 attending public schools. The experiment at Blanding is under ideal conditions. There are about 1,000 Piutes and Utes at Towoac, Colorado, Ignacio, Colorado, and Blanding, Utah out of the once flourishing tribes. About 200 of these are in this section on the Allan Canyon reserve. Each Ute child of these 200 Utes is accounted for, and, with the exception of four or five who have special permits, is attending either a public or government school. The dormitory site was selected here for a definite purpose. The Indians of Allan canyon are nontaxpayers, and the government pays school tuition for their children. The price per child per day ranges from fifteen cents to sixty cents over the United States, and in Blanding the sum is forty cents for the twenty Indian children here. The government expends $250 a year to send one Indian child to our public schools. The Ute parents had the choice of sending their children to Ignacio, Colorado, Towoac, Colorado, or to Blanding. Due to the fact that their reservation is so close to Blanding, and so that the parents could visit and mingle with their children, the children were placed in the dormitory here to attend the public schools. The cultural and physical advantages of the dormitory to the Indian child are unlimited. Here the Indian pupils have regular community life. They have training identical to, and with, the white people. Physical examinations are given them every week. The government requires them to eat certain amounts of cooked and leafy vegetables each day, and to drink milk. They all show weight gain on their health charts. The progress of the Indian children in our public school is unbelievable, even in these few months of school. They assimilate things very easily. The fact that there is no racial prejudice among the children makes it easier for the Indian pupils to absorb our customs and ideals. They are very apt in any forms of handicraft. Their drawings are particularly commendable. Molly Deer, of the fourth grade, is a beautiful penman. They are courteous, obedient to their teachers, play games very well with the white children, and love to sing. Eileen Hatch, a sixth grader, dressed as an
THE INDIAN IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOL 93
Indian princess sang "Ramona" in a school program. On Armistice Day all of the Indian children, carrying flags, participated in the parade. At the Junior dance, afterward, the townspeople were astonished at their ability to dance social dances. The teachers like the Indians for pupils. They try very hard to learn and to apply the things they are taught. Although they are rowdy, full of mischief and practical jokes, they respond exceptionally well to school discipline. Their attendance is far better and more regular than that of the white children. During the three months of school this year, only two Indian children have been absent𤤖ne absence was due to toothache, one to a slight cold. It has been shown that Indians learn the language more readily and assimilate ideas better, if mingled with the white children. There are two groups of beginners in our school, The first group had one year at a government school where it was taught English. The second group has not previously been to school and could not speak English at the beginning of the term. But at the end of the school year𤪳y present indications鍟his second group will be up with, or even surpass, the first one. There are problems, however, connected with the experiment. The greatest difficulty we have to overcome is the opposition of many of the townspeople to having the Indian children in the public schools. However, this feeling is being eliminated to a great extent as facts are taking the place of racial prejudice; as the white children are not being scholastically retarded by Indian association; and as the Indian children are really in better health than the white children (any Indian child who is sick, or who has the eye disease, trachoma, is compelled to go to Towoac to school at once, and to have special treatment); and because the status of the Indian is markedly improving, these unreasonable prejudices are disappearing. Aside from any other reasons the financial aid to the town is a big item to be considered. There are several projects being carried on for the benefit of these Lamanite children. Certain men go to the dormitory in the evening and tell stories of the Book of Mormon to the children. Others teach singing. The Relief Society Stake Board has a play hour there once a week, and a singing hour once a week. The Indians have been invited to attend Primary and Sunday School and the older ones attend Sacrament meetings. This Indian project should be, and is, one of most vital interest to the people here. Our parents were called here to San Juan to establish friendly relations with the Indians. It is our grave duty to carry on the work they began. This is the old home of the Nephites. Battles were fought and won here, and now it is only just that we try to help the remnant that is left here. Prophecies in the Book of Mormon tell us that the Indians will become a white and delightsome people. It is easily seen that the hand of the Lord is in the affairs of the Lamanites. The national government has instituted proceedings to help the Indian. The Indian question is being agitated all over the United States. Our pioneer fathers made friends of these Indians, the government is educating them, and it is our mission, now, to convert them.

