Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) Book or Mormon?Curist In America (Continued) Read the rest of Third Nephi, from chapter 21 on; also the entire book of Fourth Nephi, to the book of Mormon. This closes the abridgement of the Nephite record by that prophet-warrior. The time is mainly the year 34, but goes to the year 322, After Christ. Story of the Lesson In this lesson Jesus continues his ministry among the Nephites. The historian tells us that the Lord ''did truly teach the people for the space of three days." Whether or not this; was on three consecutive days he does not say. But after that," we are told, Jesus showed himself "oft" to them and administered the sacrament to them and taught them. During this period Christ performed a similar miracle to that recorded in the Gospels of feeding the five thousand. Only, this was in connection with the Lord's supper. "Now, there had been no bread, neither wine, brought by the disciples, neither by the multitude. But He truly gave unto them bread to eat, and also wine to drink." Then, too, He answered a question as to what the Church should be called. It was, He said, to be known as the Church of Christ. For how, He asked, "can it be my Church save it be called in my name? If a church be called in Moses' name, then it is Moses' church; or if it be called in the name of a man, then it is the church of a man; but if it be called in my name, then it is my Church, if it so be they are built upon my gospel." Also Jesus gave the twelve disciples their secret wishes. Nine of them elected to "go speedily into God's kingdom" at their death. They were told that they should live to be seventy-two years old, after which they should "find rest" with Christ. But the other three, like John the Beloved, desired to continue their earthly ministry indefinitely. And they were told that they should never "taste of death" or have pain of body, that they should continue to bring souls to Christ, and that at His coming again they should "be changed in the twinkling of an eye from mortality to immortality." Besides, our Savior performed many miracles during this time. He healed all the sick and lame, opened the eyes of the blind, unstopped the ears of the deaf, and "did all manner of cures" among the people, even raising a man from the dead. Mainly, though, He taught the people. The historian says He taught them "all things from the beginning." Here are the main points in His teaching: There is a guiding influence in the affairs of men. Things are not allowed to get out of hand, but are directed toward an end. Especially is this so in the case of the children
114
of the promise. In Abraham and his seed all nations are to be blessed of God. All the promises "made to the fathers" will be fulfilled in the due time of the Lord. Israel will be gathered; Jerusalem will be rebuilt in Palestine; a New Jerusalem will be established on the American continent; the "remnants" will be remembered. In a series of quotations, with running comments, events of the past and the future are tied together in a very illuminating manner. After the last visitation of Jesus to the Nephites, the twelve disciples carry on the work begun by the Christ. They preach the gospel and minister to the people, till all become members of the Church through baptism. Great miracles are performed. Peace, prosperity, and happiness prevail everywhere. The Order of Enoch is established, and continues for about two hundred years. Then the seeds of disunion begin to sprout. Dissenters arise, infidelity spreads, the old lines of cleavage as between Nephites and Lamanites spring up again, till by the year 322, or thereabouts, social and religious chaos comes once more to this hapless nation. It is now a little way to the end. The swiftness with which things happen, however, as we shall see presently, is more in the narrative than in the events depicted.
Notes
1. The Fifth Gospel: It is interesting to compare the account of Christ's ministry in the Book of Mormon with that in the four Gospels in the New Testament. Nephi's is the longest. In Matthew there are approximately twenty-eight thousand words; in Mark, nineteen thousand: in Luke, thirty
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
thousand; in John, twenty-two thousand; and in Nephi, if we include what is introductory to the account, thirty-four thousand. It is probably true that, if we take into consideration only the words actually uttered by Jesus in the five accounts of His ministry, we shall find more in the Nephite Record than in the four Gospels put together, not counting the duplications in the latter. The conditions are, of course, very different in some respects. Among the Jews in Palestine Jesus is mortal; in America, immortal. This does not cover the times when He appeared to the apostles there. On the eastern continent the people of His time were, on the whole, very unresponsive to His teachings. On the western hemisphere the people almost without exception were extremely responsive. For when the Nephites believed, they believed without any reservations. Always they were either hot or cold, never merely lukewarm, like the Laodiceans of whom John speaks and whom God, on account of their indefinite temperature, threatened to "spue out of His mouth." Jesus himself declares that "so great faith He had never seen among all the Jews." That is why He "could not show unto them so great miracles" as He performed among the Nephites. He is speaking, however, to the twelve disciples, but no doubt the description applies to the whole people as well. This greater faith on the part of the Nephites gives us a clue to the essential difference between Jesus in Palestine and Jesus in America. Among the Nephites he performed about the same miracles as He did among the Jews ? healing the sick, raising the dead, multiplying the quantity of bread and wine, and so on. But there are some
LESSON DEPARTMENT
distinctive spiritual manifestations on this continent. Jesus himself hints at this fact in the phrase "so great miracles." For one thing, when Nephi baptized the twelve disciples, they "were filled with the Holy Ghost. And with fire." Afterwards they "were encircled about as if by fire from heaven, and the multitude did witness it and did bear record." For another thing, little children, in the presence of the multitude, uttered "marvelous things." These "marvelous things," according to the record, "were greater than Jesus had revealed unto the people." And, for still another thing, Jesus told the Nephites many things which He had been forbidden by the Father to tell the Jews because of their unbelief ?about the "other sheep," for instance, and the ten tribes. In a word, as we stated elsewhere, Jesus seems to have been under considerably less restraint here than in Palestine. This shows that people receive of divine things according to their faith. Furthermore, there are more intimate touches of Jesus in the Fifth Gospel than in the other four. In the New Testament Jesus is "the Man of sorrows." He is decidedly "acquainted with grief." This is the predominant tone of the Gospels by Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Whether or not the writers were under the deep spell of Calvary, it is impossible to say. But it is not so in the Book of Mormon. Here He appears in a different light. In Nephi He weeps, but it is from joy. He prays, too, evidently in the hearing of the multitude, out of sheer thanksgiving at the great faith He witnesses. Also He smiles. Let us not forget that. And here we see the Master in a new light. Twice He smiles on the twelve disciples, His countenance beaming with light
115
and happiness. No one can read Nephi's account of Christ in anything like a sympathetic spirit without getting something more, and other, than what he gets from the New Testament account of Him.
2. The Order of Enoch: As a rule, when, in the history of religion, any considerable number of people accept the gospel and are entering upon the first practice of it, their prime consideration is a reformation of their temporal, or economic, situation. This is a curious fact. That happened in the days before the Flood, when the prophet Enoch preached. The order then established, probably for the first time, was named for him. "They had all things in common, and there were no poor and no rich among them." It happened, too, in the time of the apostles of Christ after the Ascension. It happened, also, in our own age, in Ohio and Missouri. And it happened in the times immediately following the visitation of Jesus to the Nephites. There seems to be a conflict between the pursuit of the material and the pursuit of the spiritual. This fact is especially noteworthy of the Nephite peoples, as we have seen in a preceding lesson. But it is true of all peoples. "Ye cannot serve God and Mammon," says Jesus. The lure of wealth is almost unescapable. The love of pleasure and power also. And so, on so many occasions when there has been a strong spiritual uprush, men have set their minds on making such a change in their material affairs as would lessen the conflict between the temporal and the spiritual. And goodness knows it is sorely in need of alterations in our own times, where there is periodical unemployment with much poverty and ignorance,
116
3. The Time Element: Somehow one gets the impression from reading the Book of Mormon that the Nephites were swifter to do evil than other peoples of whom we read in religious history. But this is more imaginary than real as the consideration of a few facts will show. If a historian three hundred years from now should briefly record the happenings of, say, the period between 1900 and 1920, he would have a quicker and greater change to write about than anything to be found in the Book of Mormon. For during those years the whole world, not merely a comparatively small nation, went from a period of universal peace through the most devastating of all wars into another period of universal peace. The thing would appear incredible if set down in a sober history, especially in view of our great pretentions to peace and Christianity. Yet it is a solemn and lamentable fact. That so far as outer events are concerned. Moral upsets as swift have taken place. Consider the period in England just after the brilliant reign of Queen Elizabeth. when morals went to such loose
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ends as to shock every right thinking person. And then look at the rise of the Puritans, with their horror of what to us now are innocent amusements ? dancing, theater-going, and so on. Human emotions are queer things. A gust of wind may change us in a moment, as witness the almost sudden change of our attitude in America towards the League of Nations a few years ago. We changed almost in a night. And so there is nothing very remarkable about the alterations in the Nephites, in respect to their swift changes from good to evil and from evil to good, when we consider human emotions.
Questions and Problems
1. What is the United Order? How would it work today? What conditions give rise to such schemes?
2. Has the economic problem anything to do with the size of families today? Explain your view.
3. Are morals any looser today than before the Great War? Give reasons for your views.
4. Account for the last war between the Nephites and the Lamanites.
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR APRIL
(This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in April.)
Our RESPONSIBILITY TO SUSTAIN THE LAW
"Law commands that which is right and prohibits that which is wrong." ?Blackstone.
"We believe in honoring, obeying and sustaining the law."?Articles of Faith.
"We stand for the observance of law, the people who live it and the officers who enforce it."?M. I. A. Slogan.
"By strict obedience Jesus won." ?Hymn.
I. Origin and History
Civil law, rule, and order came with the advent of man. It began with family, patriarchal and tribal organization,
LESSON DEPARTMENT
changing in form and requirements as man spread over the earth. The purpose was protection, defense, and progress.
II. Purpose and Necessity of Law and Government
1. To establish justice.
2. To insure domestic tranquility.
3. To promote the general welfare.
4. To secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.
III. Teaching Law and Order
A. Home? Beginnings of obedience: The earlier in life that a child can appreciate and respond to the responsibilities of life, the safer he is and the more sure he will be of success. No one can successfully escape the real responsibilities of the full requirements of proper conduct of life.
B. Church? The real progress and pleasure of life comes from a response to the law of God. Man is that he might have joy, predicated on the principle of an attitude of responsibility. This means a proper attitude to God and man and country.
117
C. School? School is closely associated with the home and enlarges the child's experience. He carries to the group the principles taught and nurtured in the home. Every human being must learn the majesty of the law.
D. Society? Strong and potential factor for human conduct.
IV. Benefits and Blessing of the Law.
Security Order Progress?Education Unity of effort. A response to the requirements of law and order measures true citizenship, which aims to live above the law. Responsibility serves two purposes: first, upholds and sustains the law; secondly, sets a good example and thereby influences others to support and sustain the law. Not only is this true in the civil law but in the law and requirements of God. "Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven."?Matt. 5:16. Responsibility is closely allied to opportunity, privilege, power, authority, and influence.
Literature (3rd Week in April)
THE SHORT STORY IN FRANCE
Suggested Stories: Bernier's The Divided Horsecloth; Voltaire's Memnon the Philosopher; Rabelais' He Who Married a Dumb Wife; Merimee's Mateo Falcone.
At the beginning of this century Brander Matthews, who is one of the greatest literary critics America has produced, wrote: "Probably there is no rashness in a prophecy
118
that the short story will flourish even more luxuriously in the immediate future than it has flourished in the immediate past." (He had just written that the nineteenth century had been a short story and novel era.) "Of a certainty we can assert that a literary form as popular as the short story, as well established in every modern literature, is deserving of serious consideration and is worthy of careful study." It is useless to ask if Brander Matthews' prophecy has been realized by 1931, but it is worthwhile to know something of the causes that have brought about this supremacy of the short story. And we owe more to France than to any other European country. To tell the account briefly, for we are more interested in the short story of modern France, long before the close of the Middle Ages, France had its native writers who wrote their tales in Fabliau form. This form, for our purposes, is a brief tale, little more than an anecdote, with a sharp sting at the end. The Fabliau is full of gayety and has the simple shrewdness of the plain people. One of the few Fabliau authors known to modern times is Bernier, whose story, "The Divided Horsecloth," is found in the text. About the middle of the fourteenth century the Fabliau lost its importance and the forms of the Lay, Miracle, and Devotional stories were in vogue until after the close of the Middle Ages. Troubadours and minstrels roved in France, as in other countries, and many of their stories were recorded by later writers. In Italy, Boccaccio was the master and in France Rabelais and Marguerite de Navarre are two names that have lived. In the seventeenth century France paid most of her literary attention to the drama and to long drawn out
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
sentimental romances. However, in the second half of the century Charles Perrault and La Fontaine (both of these writers are represented in the text) developed the fable and fairy story into beautiful forms. A great many of the stories that are told children today were written by Perrault. To him we owe Cinderella, Little Red Riding Hood, Blue Beard, Sleeping Beauty, Puss-in-Boots, and many others. This distinguished Parisian was born in 1628. He was the author of elaborate works in prose and verse, but his fame rests on a few tales that he wrote for recreation when he was growing old?tales to which he was not even willing to give his name. They were first published under the name of his son, a ten year old boy. Because of the stories' simplicity there is a slight reason for thinking that Perrault might have had the boy tell the stories and then record them in their charming and simple style. Perrault's fame made fairy tales the rage. There were imitators down to the eighteenth century, with its new philosophy, its skepticism, and its interest in pure literary form. As in England, French writers of this century occupied themselves largely with the moral tale and Voltaire was the great master of this form. (One of Voltaire's stories is found in the text and the reader will readily notice the difference between his profundity and the lighter touch of Addison.) In the nineteenth century the modern short story was born and by the second quarter it was reaching a perfection that has not yet been excelled. These early modern stories were written not so much as consciously following a purpose as by a certain turn of genius in the men. Their stories made the short story one of the most highly per-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
fected forms of literature in France. It was in France and in the United States that the short story was finally achieved and it was done almost simultaneously and quite independently. There are perhaps two reasons for France's development? first, she has a finer artistic appreciation and has acquired the Latin liking for logic, which includes the classical code of unity and proportion, and secondly, the Parisian newspapers. In France, then and today, there are not many magazines. Instead, the newspapers, cheap in price and widely read, give the same thing that is obtained in America from more expensive sources. The French newspapers welcomed and definitely encouraged writers of short stories; the stories, themselves, were widely read and much criticized. And it was in the Parisian newspapers that such writers as Coppee, Daudet, and Maupassant first became known. Balzac, one of the great writers of all time, broke definitely with the past in his art, and his methods were adapted by the great writers of fiction, many of whose names are as familiar as our English ones?George Sand, Anatole France, Daudet, Merimee, Zola, Maupassant, Flaubert, and others. Stevenson in England, you will recall, was much influenced by the French writers. He summed up their art when he said in reply to a friend who had asked him why he did not change the ending of a certain story: "Make another end to it? That's not the way I write. The whole tale is implied. I never use an effect when I can help it unless it prepares the effects that are to follow. That's what a story consists in. To make another end than that is to make the beginning all wrong."
119
Notes to the teacher: If the material on the short story in France were divided into two periods, the last being the modern one, Balzac's story would begin the latter. However, if it is possible, Merimee's story of "Mateo Falcone" should be given in the first lesson, in addition to at least one of the briefer, older ones. The modern short stories represent a section of the best of France's art, and as many of the stories as can be arranged for should be given in class. "Mateo Falcone" is counted one of the greatest short stories of all time, and if the majority of the class are not acquainted with it, the members will enjoy it much better than they will some of the older ones. Balzac's story, in its way, is equally great, but it is not placed on the suggested list because it might not appeal to all the members of the class. Questions on the stories should bring out the characteristics of the French art in comparison with that of other nations previously studied, and on the style of the individual stories. One easy way of getting at this latter is to ask the members if they could tell another story by the same author if the name were withheld, then ask them to explain why. Questions on the short story as a form of art, given early in the course, may be used to good effect on the French stories.
"The Divided Horsecloth" by Bernier
Nothing is known of Bernier except that he lived in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries and that his name is signed to the ms. of "The Divided Horsecloth." This is a beautiful story of a certain trait in human nature that has not varied much from the beginning of man. It is the account of a wealthy and
120
prudent man from the common ranks who went up to Paris so that he might better himself and family. Time passed, the wife died, and the father loving his son and desiring to see the boy well and happily married, forgot how necessary wealthy possessions are for retaining independence of ways and thought, and gave all of his wealth to his son. It was not long before the father was looked upon as an object of charity in the home he had built. The wife, who had been obtained at such a price, grew weary of the old man and asked that he be sent away. The old father, grown weak and weary, protested and then agreed to go if first he should be given a piece of cloth to protect him from the cold. Selfishly, the son refused, but later relented by saying the old man could have one of the cloths now used to cover the horses. The son called for his young boy to do the errand, and it was here that the child's wisdom asserted itself, and gave the unexpected ending to the Fabliau.
Questions on "The Divided Horsecloth"
1. In what ways can you place the period in which the story was written?
2. What is the universal appeal of the story?
3. What are the characteristics of the Fabliau as exemplified by "The Divided Horsecloth?"
"Mateo Falcone" by Prosper Merimee
Prosper Merimee, who is one of the great masters of French style and of short story writing, was born at Paris in September, 1803. He studied at the bar but never practiced law. It was his good fortune
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to become acquainted with the mother of the future Empress Eugenie, and when Eugenie married Napoleon III, Merimee became a court favorite and was given a number of coveted positions. He was a man of deep emotions, which he successfully hid from all but his best friends, and even they found it hard to pierce his stoical reserve. In spite of his kind and helpful nature, he had a distrust and even a contempt for mankind. Several times he was disappointed in love affairs, and this fact may account for the hard, vampirish quality of many of his women characters. His deep but hidden emotions also give a clue to the wild, unbridled nature of his characters. When "Mateo Falcone" was written, Merimee had not been to Corsica, but he afterwards visited there and was entertained by an aging woman who had long been the leader of a famous feud. He told her story in "Colomba." Merimee died at Cannes, September, 1870 just after the close of the Franco-Prussian War. Many of his short stories are known throughout the world, and one of them, "Carmen," inspired the famous opera by that name.
Questions
(It must be remembered in this story that the Corsicans, through long years of being unjustly treated and governed, had learned to take the law into their own hands. The men killed, not for lust and robbery, but to see that justice was administered. The weak man was the one who let an offense go unpunished.)
1. What features of the setting are necessary to make the action appear probable?
2. What traits of character in Gianetto. Fortunato, Gamba, and
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Mateo are motives for the successive stages of action? 3. Do you judge these characters most by what they think, say, or do? Which method of indicating character is most dramatic? 4. Do you sympathize with For-
121
tunato or are you merely shocked by his death? 5. Is the repetition of the bribery artistic? 6. Could the story be made into a play? If it were a one-act one, where would you lay the scene?
Social Service (Fourth Week in April)
PERSONALITY STUDY: THINKING STRAIGHT
Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pages 184-200
When any of your friends have offered you a penny for your thoughts have you ever considered that your "thoughts" were worth the price offered? If you ever hesitated in making the proposed exchange, has it not been mainly because you were ashamed of the very trivial nature of the less than half-formed ideas you were entertaining? A very large proportion of our so-called thinking is very readily recognized as being anything but genuine reasoning or creative thinking. And a large majority of what seems to pass as the true coin, so to speak, is in reality a counterfeit variety known in modern psychology as rationalization. There are so many pitfalls that beset the course of straight thinking that the wonder is that this rather rare process is ever engaged in or found in others by people who are acquainted with its characteristics. Let us now address ourselves as vigorously as we may to the important problem of straight thinking, i. e. Thinking in the best sense of the word. First, it may be well for us to characterize more specifically each of about five of the various types of mental processes which we call thinking. They range all the way from the get-no-where activity of the thinking mechanism when hazy ideas are used in a mere "idling" fashion on to the distinctly human use of clearly defined ideas in the successful search for truth.
1. Reverie or day dreaming is a type of thinking which occupies a great deal of our time and seems to require a minimum of effort. It goes on almost spontaneously and seems to be rather self-centered in character. Can it be possible that an old cow lying in the shade chewing her cud could often match us for worthwhile mental activity? Animals generally are not accorded the use of ideas, but it surely would not be claiming much for the above mentioned cow if we admitted that her possible dreams of new pastures were as worthy as are our daydreams of "castles in Spain." Of course under some circumstances a moderate amount of day dreaming may not be objectionable. At times it may be quite harmless or even beneficial as a relaxation after prolonged mental effort. It presents, however, some real dangers. For example, it often tends to unduly color or crowd out altogether our
122
more worth-while types of thinking.
2. "Wishful" thinking has more sequence and direction than reverie, but otherwise is much the same. It, too, occupies much of our time and accomplishes little or nothing. It is this futile type of "thinking" which we nearly always bring to bear on such problems as spreading the gospel, conservation, flood control, immigration, community cleanups, adjustment of the tax burden, overcoming the present business depression, building up Zion in Jackson County, etc., etc. Here too, belong our fabrications of easy rewards in heaven with which we were concerned in our last lesson. Both reverie and "wishful" thinking would furnish examples of what is sometimes discussed as autistic thinking, i. e. Thinking which is sufficient unto itself. The very process itself satisfies so that one need not bring criticism to bear in order to increase the probability that it will meet the social test or square with the facts of the objective universe.
3. Hasty or so-called practical thinking, as the name clearly implies, is quite different from the types we have just been discussing. It seldom goes on in leisurely fashion and it is at least realistic in the sense that it has to do with the ordinary practical affairs of everyday life. There are many decisions which most of us must make every day?the majority of them of minor importance. We say: "I think I'll call at the postoffice?try eating an olive?ask Mr. Jones for a job?buy a paper?become a teacher," and so on. The words we use in announcing these decisions indicate that we are inclined to believe that they follow upon thought processes of some kind and no doubt they do. But that the mental activity involved in nearly all of such cases hardly de-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
serves to be called reasoning or thinking, is evident from the fact that most of it is done in a careless or slip-shod manner. Furthermore it is often based upon superstitions, prejudices, "hunches," and inadequate information. At best these practical decisions are based upon rather haphazard?though fairly reliable?observations and personal habits or upon beliefs which may at times represent somewhat careful thinking done for us by other people, and which we are inclined to accept somewhat blindly rather than do the necessary thinking for ourselves. For example, we may act quite appropriately at times on the statement: "Make hay while the sun shines."
4. Rationalization is a term which during recent years has been used to designate a kind of thinking which is often so elaborate and logical as to pass as honest to goodness, straight thinking. When we really learn to recognize it we are usually convinced that we should use the same care to avoid it that we would to avoid skillfully made counterfeit coins with which we might otherwise become dangerously burdened. The process of rationalization really grows out of man's conceit in jealously guarding his reputation as the one being in creation who must always have things pass through the "crucible of reason" before they can be accepted by him. He must not be accused even by himself of accepting any proposition that will not stand the test of reason. If really good reasons cannot be found, then acceptably "good" reasons must be brought forward. If necessary, he will be blind to all evidences except those which further his side of the case. Both true and false elements are strangely mingled together in the effort to justify his actions, attitudes, or beliefs, but the
LESSON DEPARTMENT
result is a line of argument which seems at least to himself to be very logical and reasonable. If it seems plausible and persuasive to others, so much the better. Thus we see that rationalizing is little better than a process of mere self-justification and excuse-making. It is a matter of inventing "good" reasons to cover up socially non-acceptable real reasons. And to appreciate how logical and elaborate the process is in many cases just put someone to work defending his actions or beliefs and listen while he talks. You may initiate the interesting process perhaps by simply questioning the reasonableness of his recent purchase of an automobile; his adherence to the Republican party, or the church he belongs to; his views on vaccination or the Word of Wisdom; his support or non-support of the eighteenth amendment; his joining of a college fraternity or a lodge; his conclusions on organic evolution or the higher criticism: his attitude toward the Boy Scout Movement, or toward higher education for girls; the amount of his contribution to the Red Cross or to the Community Chest; the amount he paid as tithing; and so on. No matter on which point you challenge him he is more likely than not to offer you so-called good reasons instead of the real reasons. Possibly you are prepared to carry the experiment a step further and make doubly sure that your friend is rationalizing but not reasoning in any very worthy sense of the word. This is almost an infallible test if you can make it. Try calmly to win against his mere rationalization, by means of some straight thinking which has due regard for the crucial evidences in the case. As Morgan well says, "If he keeps his poise throughout, and if finally outdone, he placidly accepts the outcome of
123
reason, he is not rationalizing, but reasoning. If, on the other hand, he shows great perturbation should he be defeated in the debate, and finally goes into a rage, one can be reasonably sure that all his arguments were simply attempts to convince himself and others of the truth of something that he wished to believe."
5. We are now ready to more fully appreciate a kind of thinking which needs to be encouraged and stimulated in all of us. We refer to genuine reasoning or creative thinking?the more or less rare and difficult types of mental activity comparable to that engaged in by the true scientist or philosopher when he is seeking earnestly for new truth. The careful thinker is in no undue hurry. He has ever a "passion for facts" and will go to considerable trouble to see that they are reliable. He knows at the outset that the apparently simple process of perception or observation is beset with many difficulties. It has been well said that "we see things not as they are but as we are." (Patrick.) We seem bound in the very process of careful observation to interpret sense data in terms of our past experience and our mental set at the given moment. In other words, sense data do not impress themselves upon a passive and indifferent mind, but are given meaning as a result of the very active mental process of perception. To facilitate accurate perception very often sensory defects need to be remedied, or again normal perception is aided by means of microscopes, photographic films, telescopes and other instruments of precision. Very often observations are made under conditions of experimental control. Considerable patience is exercised in making accurate measurements,
124
records and other provisions to facilitate verification by subsequent observers. Precautions are taken all the way along the line to guard against errors, unrecognized artifacts, illusions, data collected under the influence of hampering distractions or prejudices, etc., etc. In short, experts make observations under the most favorable conditions possible and keep suitable records of the same as a basis for carefully guarded inferences which come into special prominence later. For convenience we shall now take up a separate consideration of the process of making inferences. Before we begin, however, it may be well to remind ourselves that in reality the collection of facts and the making of inferences about them, are not wholly separate processes. In his recently published "Psychology" Woodworth says, "There is a close relation between sense perception and reasoning, and inference is an extension of the pattern-grasping activity beyond the sensory field. * * * From simple cases (of perception) we can trace a continuous series extending to the most abstract reasoning imaginable." The person who has acquired the habit of straight thinking not only insists that his facts be thoroughly tested and verified, but he is even more cautious, if possible, to have his theories carefully checked up by other competent workers so that they may approach as nearly as possible to the status of well tested probabilities or practical certainties. So cautious is he that he never claims for even very well established laws or principles the status of absolute truths. One is impressed by the steps involved in the gradual development of the laws or principles of science. First, we have phenomena to which are attached a minimum of meaning. Second, an
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
attempt is made to understand these phenomena by means of one or more preliminary guesses or speculations. Other inquiring minds cooperate in checking up on the validity of the proposed guesses. A third step is taken when one of these is found to fit the known facts sufficiently well to raise its status so that it may be properly designated as an hypothesis. Fourth, when this in turn becomes considerably more well established by means of further scientific procedure it becomes proper for the first time to call it by the rather dignified name of theory. Fifth, after much more extended verification by many trained investigators, it is finally referred to as a law or principle. An important safeguard which careful thinkers have learned to use during this whole process is known as the law of parsimony. The New English Dictionary explains it as "the logical principle that no more causes or forces should be assumed than are necessary to account for the facts." When scientists apply it in helping to choose between two or more rival hypotheses they choose the one which is the simplest, and which best takes into account all of the thoroughly established facts and generalizations of science. Sound reasoning also implies great care in avoiding a number of well known pitfalls of thinking which we can do little more than mention at this time.
1. Rationalizing as a substitute for the ideational search for truth may perhaps be regarded as one of the very common hidden dangers to be avoided.
2. Some people "reason" like this: "Christianity is either the most vicious fraud ever perpetrated upon the world, or it is the most glorious revelation of divine truth which has ever blessed mankind." It may be
LESSON DEPARTMENT
the latter, but it should be clear that this process of so-called reasoning does not establish the proposed generalization. Is not this simply an example of the familiar disjunctive fallacy?
3. Then there is the danger of false analogy. Even a true analogy does not prove a conclusion. Its only proper use is to help explain it and even here we should be aware of the danger of attempting to carry an analogy too far.
4. Hasty generalizations should be carefully avoided. All of us may well cultivate more of a tentative attitude toward knowledge, for as indicated above, many of our generalizations are in the constant process of formulation and reformulation and they all rest upon various degrees of tested probabilities rather than upon absolute certainties. Our "hankering for certainty" should not lead us into the pitfall of prematurely fixed ideas.
5. Sometimes thinking is done by incorrect causal relationships. How common is the tendency to "jump to conclusions." It seems so difficult to wait until we have data which are not only fair and typical, but also sufficient in amount. Who has not seen the typical politician fall into this error when trying to explain the cause of either hard times or prosperity? Patent-medicine testimonials are full of the same type of "reasoning."
6. Too often people attempt to think through ambiguous terms. They may confuse making the world safe for democracy with making it safe for the Democratic party, or prophecy with mere prediction, or tax reform with the undue increase of the average tax burden. Most of us have doubtless heard wasted arguments end with remarks something like this: "Oh, if that is what
125
you mean then I agree with you and there is no use of further argument."
7. Another well known pitfall which careful thinkers avoid is to base a line of reasoning on one or more unsupported assertions. At times prominent people who may have splendid insight or access to abundant evidence in one field, attempt to have their assertions accepted just as readily in other fields where they really should assume a much more humble position. Why should anyone be confused by the views of Edison on intelligence tests or those of Burbank on immortality, or the half-baked notions on chemistry put forth by a prominent psychologist, for example?
8. Again people are hindered from doing straight thinking by the notion that is sometimes entertained that because seemingly valid objections can be raised against a proposition it should therefore be wholly rejected. Recently the proposal to abandon the use of a little ungraded school in a certain district was at least temporarily defeated largely because certain quite irrelevant objections were played up by certain interested parties and the anti-superintendent local paper. To win out there seemed to be no real need of discovering the possible valid objections that might have been brought forward. The fact that objections could be raised was convincing enough. How foolish!
9. Sometimes sound conclusions cannot be reached because the main issue is either lost sight of, or purposely evaded. We say that the person is arguing "beside the point." Many a lawyer with a weak case to defend wastes time on non-essentials, often on mere trivialities, instead of using his energies on the really crucial points that rightly
126
should be stressed. A rather low form of this error is when he resorts to the "calling of names" or some worse form of personal abuse.
10. At the risk of seeming to over-lap somewhat in our enumeration of common pitfalls, let us go on to a brief statement of the danger of shifting ground. When this slippery practice of refusing to be pinned down even when you are wrong is consciously engaged in, it is indeed a despicable thing, but very often people seem to fall into this error quite unconsciously. An argument becomes endless and at the same time gets nowhere because one or both of the participants have acquired such automatic facility in shifting from one proposition to another one, the moment he seems pressed to face a decision on the one he started with. In honest thinking one ought to first clearly define the problem, then bring forth the evidences that are relevant and accept the appropriate conclusions no matter what becomes of one's preconceptions.
11. We should not fail to call attention to the importance of discounting our prejudices and those of the ones whom we choose to help us with our thinking. No one likes to be taken in by a mere propagandist. Yet everyone has prejudices of some kind. Even the so-called impartial scientific investigator has them as part of his equipment. The important thing is to allow sufficiently for probable prejudices that would tend to unduly hamper a person in making a given investigation or in appraising its validity or significance. We are helped in knowing how much to discount these by becoming acquainted with investigations or conclusions made by others who are inclined to show partiality in the opposite direction. If your
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
own bias is very pronounced, it is a good practice to give the benefit of a possible doubt to the opposite side, especially if your selfish interests are involved in the decision to be made.
12-14. We could go on enumerating cautions against trying to do clear thinking under conditions which make us highly suggestible. Against basing important decisions on what we sometimes call "chance" such as the mere flip of a coin, against being swayed to a warped conclusion by strong but very temporary emotional factors and so on. But surely we have been impressed with the fact that straight thinking is not a simple and easy matter. We also know that the trained thinker is well aware of many guide-posts, and that when he in cooperation with many others finally announces careful inferences as high probabilities or practical certainties that it is not the result of mere child's play that anyone who has reached his majority can engage in as successfully as anyone else. Let us be grateful that we have many carefully worked out observed uniformities which are sometimes disparagingly styled the "theories of men." And let us also resolve that as adults believing in the dignity of man and his eternal possibilities we will accept Overstreet's challenge and proceed immediately to get rid of our possible "museum of immature fixations, snap judgments, picked-up prejudices, and unverified 'hand-me-downs' * * *. The great hope of straighter and more fruitful thinking among adults," he goes on to say, "(lies) in the increasingly wide recognition of the fact that education should not be confined to a few preparatory years, but should be a continuing process throughout life."
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Problems to Select From for Class Discussion
1. Explain as clearly as you can what is meant by science and scientific method. Which is the more expert procedure; "accurate observation" or "cautious inference?"
2. Do you think Overstreet is too hard on the rationalizers? (See pp. 191-193). Describe a good recent example of rationalizing that you have observed. How did you know it was really an instance of rationalizing?
3. Mention and describe briefly each of three other rather unworthy types of thinking. What is the relative prominence of each in our lives?
4. What constitutes thinking in the best and most worthy sense of the word? Of what significance is such thinking in human life? Can a person be truly religious who does no such thinking?
What important differences would it make in the world "if we feared the entertaining of an unverifiable opinion with the warmth with which we fear using the wrong implement at the dinner table, (and) if the thought of holding a prejudice disgusted us as does a foul disease"? (Trotter. ) 6. According to the dictionary what is the distinction between a theory and an hypothesis? Explain the steps involved in the gradual development of scientific laws or principles. Read Alma 32:26-43 and see if you can discover such corresponding steps as, for example, non-belief, desire to believe, belief, faith and knowledge in the realm of religious experience. 7. Distinguish between the legitimate kind of doubting involved in worth-while thinking and the kind that should be avoided and warned against. Give an instance that you 127 know of where doubting seemed to be engaged in for the mere sake of doubting. In this connection ccnsider the following quotation from the psychologist Stratton: ''Doubt is a state of incomplete or suspended judgment to be. Distinguished from belief, either in its positive or negative form. Doubt is closely connected with the formation of belief. (Doubt) is useful so long as it tends to make belief more intelligent and more in harmony with wide experience (but it may) far outlive its period of usefulness." 8. Among the "essentials of the thinking process" Strayer and Norsworthy mention, "a state of doubt or uncertainty, resulting in suspended judgment." Colvin and Bagley say that "thinking comes only when a problem is presented or a situation faced, only when a 'crisis' in our behavior arises." The following is from Dewey: "To maintain the state of doubt and to carry on systematic and protracted inquiry? these are the essentials of thinking." Does it follow then that the person who says he "has never had even the least shadow of a doubt about anything pertaining to the gospel" is confessing that he has not done any thinking about it? Do the above quotations furnish a clue as to how to stimulate real thinking? Discuss. 9, Comment on this statement from Tennyson's "In Memoriam:" "There lives more faith in honest doubt, Believe me, than in half the creeds." How would you deal with doubts in religious matters such as are sometimes expressed by adolescent boys and girls? Does the unwillingness to entertain such doubts imply much or little faith in the gospel? 10. Comment on the following 128 quotation from G. M. Stratton in relation to this lesson: "Wihen we are offered new lamps for old, we must test the new to see how much of the old Aladdin-magic they contain, Let us have the new with the least loss."' 11. Mention and briefly explain as many pitfalls of thinking as you can. Discuss the statement: "When a problem is well defined it is half solved." 12, Find these phrases in the last half of the chapter in our text and comment briefly on each: "solemn, self-justifying muddle-headedness," "heresy hunting," "do not know the science," 'a new idea is beginning," "law-makers ill equipped,' "a most exhilarating prospect," "over-rated 'school of experience'," "the prevalent 'drill' technique." 13. Someone has said that the using of isolated Scripture texts according to the Ready Reference pattern, contributes to a never-ending and hopeless mass of rationalizing. It is said that as long as we admit the vaidity of the method our opponents will be tempted to carry the same method to even more ludicrous RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE extremes and we go on wrangling forever. What would you substitute for this method? 14. Have you ever been astonished at the way some people are impressed by obscure, mystifying, or even meaningless phrases? They seem so credulous or so unable to think that they fairly revel in a mass of worthless drivel which no one can possibly understand. The more obscure the material is the more sure they seem to feel that it contains important "concealed wisdom." Consider, for example, this sample taken from certain occult literature with which our country is flooded. It is supposed to answer the question as to "WHERE DWELLS THEI AM." It reads thus: "Through involution we are carried back to the nativity or primary life through material form, which is the first expression of love through earth form or upon this earth plane." (This has been carefully checked as a correct quotation.) In your opinion what is the. Relationship between clear thinking and clear expression?
