Sixty Years Ago | Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" RELIEF SOCIETY IN MARICOPA STAKE: President Alice Richens, Mesa Ward, Louisa Harper, Lehi Ward, Ann Kleinman, Alma Ward, Esther Openshaw, Nephi Ward, and Sister Sarah Tiffany of Papago Ward, gave encouraging reports. All seemed to be doing as well as usual, although there seemed to be a faithful few who had to do the principal part of the work of the respective society, but upon the whole there was general good feeling.... President Collin R. Hakes was altogether proud of the Saints of Maricopa Stake. Spoke a short time on the duties of those who had accepted positions of responsibility in the Church, and the order of the Gospel. —F, E. Robson, Sec. A LEADER OF WOMEN: Mrs. Carrie Chapman-Catt has cleared $140 for the National Organization Committee by her Woman Suffrage Calendars, which have found a ready sale. We congratulate her. —Selected AN INTEREST IN GOVERNMENT: Lady Aberdeen is a constant attendant on the sessions of Parliament in Ottawa. She occupies a place beside the Speaker in the House of Commons. —Selected HEART BE STILL Then heart be thou still, cry out no more! Thy jewels are shining there, In gladness they tread the golden streets, And offer for thee a prayer. Now hark! Through the gathering gloom Hear the angel voices tell, "Daughter arise, thy cross take up, With thy loved ones all is well." —Lydia D. Alder WOMAN OF DESTINY: Queen Christina of Spain has been asked as arbitrator to settle a long standing dispute over the boundary lines of Columbia, Equador and Peru. This is the first time in the history of the world that a woman has been chosen to settle an international dispute. Her administration of Spanish affairs has been characterized by tact and statesmanlike ability, controlled by high moral principle; and not the least of her claims to admiration is the fact that she has maintained peace in a country proverbial for being in a state of constant unrest and turmoil. —Woman's Voice THE THIRD STAR: The early Mormon women were very largely of New England birth, and they have gloried in having emulated the exile and privations of the Pilgrims for the same cause, namely freedom to worship according to their conscience. —Woman's Tribune Page 96 RS. TATZUMBIE DU PEA, a Piute Indian, born in California, is one hundred and six years old and still works in moving pictures in holes representing an old Indian woman. Her health is good; she does close eye-work; and she has recently woven a rug which she uses in her pictures. Me8! SANDOZ, whose first book Old Jules, a pioneer story of Nebraska, won favorable acclaim, has written a new novel Miss Morissa — Doctor of the Gold Trail, the dramatic narrative of a young woman doctor who lived in a "soddy" on the Nebraska plains and devotedly followed her profession despite the frontier animosity toward "lady docs." R. EMMA SADLER MOSS, fifty-seven, of New Orleans Charity Hospital, became the first woman in the United States to head a major professional medical society when she was installed as president of the American Society of Clinical Pathologists in Chicago, recently. IN 1954 in the United States, 4,073,000 babies were born, an all-time high figure.