Birthday Congratulations to Former President Amy Brown Lyman Congratulations and best wishes are extended to our beloved former president Amy Brown Lyman for her birthday, February 7th. In the stakes and missions of the Church, Relief Society women are grateful for her many years of service to the organization. She became a member of the general board in 1909, was appointed general secretary-treasurer in 1913, first counselor to President Louise Y. Robison in 1928, and general president in 1940, serving as a wise and gifted leader until her release in 1945. Sister Lyman still serves Relief Society as literature leader in her ward. Her guiding hand and her spirit of service, as well as her example of diligence and devotion, have become an integral part of the Relief Society organization. It has been said — "beautiful are the hands of the builders" — and we would add: beautiful and lasting are the accomplishments of Sister Amy Brown Lyman. Page 100 Votes. TO THE FIELD Notes From the Field Should be Submitted Promptly FE, call attention to the instruction given at the annual Relief Society conference and sent to stake Relief Society presidents regarding Notes From the Field, wherein it states that: We want to keep the Notes current and up-to-date, and in view of the fact that the Magazine is prepared three months in advance of publication, we request that material for the Notes be sent to us as soon as possible, and not later than three months after the event, otherwise the lapse of time between the event and its publication is too great. Please do not send more than one picture of the same event to us as the selection of the best picture should be made by the local organization itself. Pictures or activities which have appeared in the Church Section of the Deseret News are not printed in the Magazine because they reach largely the same readers. When pictures of stake boards are submitted for publication, it is essential that they be in connection with an account of a Relief Society activity. This ruling went into effect as of January 1, 1956. =<