Recipes Strom Australia Submitted by Irene T. Erekson TRIFLE (Elsie F. Parton) 1 stale cake, plain or sponge, broken into pieces. Moisten with orange juice. Have ready a cool custard; pour over gently and mix without breaking cake. Over this put set jello, cut into cubes (red and green or red and yellow). Cover with whipped cream flavored with vanilla and sugar. Sprinkle with chopped walnuts or almonds, or glazed cherries. Chill. Cut and serve in wedges. STEAK AND KIDNEY PIE (Elsie F. Parton) 1 lb. Steak, cut into 2-inch pieces (remove all fat) 2 kidneys—sheep, ox, or veal (skin and cut into small pieces) 1 medium onion, cut fine Simmer meat and onion in water until tender. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Thicken with 1% tbsp. Flour. Add 1 tsp. Vegemite (or substitute Kitchen Bouquet gravy mix) for color. Line greased pie tin with pastry. Fill pie with meat mixture; cover with pastry and prick with fork. Brush pastry with milk. Bake in very hot oven until brown. PastRY 6 oz. Shortening 1 tbsp. Lemon juice Y, tsp. Baking powder 1 egg yolk 1 tbsp. Water pinch salt Y Vb. Flour Sift flour, baking powder, salt. Rub shortening into flour until mixture looks like bread crumbs. Add water, egg, lemon juice, gradually, making into a dry dough. 'Turn onto lightly floured board and handle as lightly as possible. When rolling out, move rolling pin in one direction only, not back and forth. Coconut Biscutrs (CooxKIrEs) (Irenia P. Innis) Y Jb. Arrowroot biscuits (or use % Ib. 1 tsp. Vanilla vanilla wafers ) coconut, finely cut 1 tin condensed milk 2 tbsp. Cocoa Roll the biscuits out fine; add cocoa; moisten with condensed milk to which the vanilla has been added. Mix well; make into small balls, about 1 inch in diameter. Roll in coconut, and flatten. Bo1LEp Fruit CAKE Y, |b. Raisins 1 Cc. Sugar 1% Ib. Mixed fruit 1 Ib. Butter or margarine 1 c. Water - 1 "tsp. Soda Place above ingredients in saucepan. Bring to boil, and cook 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Let cool. Add % tsp. Cinnamon, % tsp. Ginger, 1 tbsp. Vanilla. Break in 6 unbeaten eggs; mix well together. Add 1 cup walnuts. Gently stir in 4 cups selfrising flour. Line tins with heavy paper and grease well. Bake at 300°F. For 3 hours. While baking, cover pans with more heavy paper. Where self-rising flour cannot be obtained, add baking powder according to amount of flour, as directed on the can. Page 102