World of Three Nell Murbarger Y four o'clock of a midwinter afternoon, a great stack of juniper wood and pitch-pine bark would have been corded behind the cookstove in our little oneroom homestead shanty. The dozen hens would have been fed, the eggs gathered, two cows milked, and the two horses comfortably bedded for the long night ahead. On these winter days, our thin, cold sun never seemed actually to set, but, with the waning hours of afternoon, receded only a bit farther into the dull gray void of the winter sky. With that final recession, night would close upon us, a night when the wild wind of the High Plains country would whistle and wail, and snow would pile deeply around the little sod claim shack, where Father and Mother constituted my world and all its people. Even though there had _ been nothing beyond those four walls but whirling winter and gray vagueness and lean coyotes slinking through the coulees, it would have been enough for me, for within those walls I never knew any lack of warmth and peace and love, and the glory of home., | As Father returned to the house from his final inspection of barn and cattle, the angry wind would whip through the hastily opened slab door to lay a skiff of snow on the floor, and whirl through the room like a busy old woman hunting a stray particle of dust. But once Father was inside, the door would be closed, the heavy crossbar dropped into place behind it; and, with a Page 104 folded burlap sack laid along the crack at the door's lower edge, all the wind and weather and winter would be shut outside like an unwelcome intruder! Removing his four-buckle Arctics and his sheepskin coat and cap, Father would knock them free of encrusting snow and hang them beside the stove to dry; and with his back turned to the crackling wood blaze and hands locked behind him, he would stand for awhile, rocking back and forth on the balls of his feet, and warming himself. Usually he had some story to tell — some amusing antic of the horses, or something the snowbirds had done that afternoon. Darkness came early on those midwinter days, and, even though it would be no more than four or five o'clock when we ate supper, the kerosene lamp would be burning brightly in its wall bracket, and the gray breast feathers of night would be pressing against the small panes of our single window. And then, with the supper dishes washed and dried and stacked away neatly in the apple-box cupboard, the long winter evening — like an anticipated drama — was ready to begin. | WE had no television, no radio, no moving pictures, no close neighbors, and, virtually, no money; yet, we never wanted for something to do. Sometimes we hand-cleaned navy beans, picking out pebbles and bits of pod, and leaving only perfect beans to be traded to the grocer for sugar and flour. Other times we WORLD OF THREE shelled seed corn or mended _ harness; but, even though we had no special work to perform, there was never any lack of activity. Gathered around the oilcloth-covered kitchen table, we played "Authors," "Old Maid," or "Pit," or enjoyed lively sessions of dominoes or croquinole. Or mother and father would play checkers, with me looking on and trying desperately to foresee the "traps" they were laying for one another. In the course of every evening there was certain to be an hour or so when we took turns reading aloud. No matter how little money there might be for other things, we always managed to take a few magazines — Youth's Companion, Farm and Home, Comfort, and, generally, the National Geographic. And, although there was no library closer than the distant county seat — an almost mythical town which we visited not oftener than twice each year — we even had books to read. Some of them, such as Robinson Crusoe, Treasure Island, and Swiss Family Robinson, had been cherished by Father and Mother in their own childhood. Others had been sent to us by city relatives as Christmas and birthday gifts; but, whatever its manner of origin, every one of those volumes had been read and reread until it was smudged and weary and limp-backed, and almost committed to memory. But what a wonderful wide world came trooping past our fireside through the pages of Joseph C. Lincoln, Gene Stratton Porter, and Harold Bell Wright! As Father read aloud in his full, rich voice, or I took my turn struggling, not too skillfully, 105 with the grownup words and phrases, Mother would always be busy at some sort of sewing — either mending or braiding strips of rags for a rug, or piecing quilt blocks. OMETIMES, as the evening progressed, Father would take the little wire corn popper from its nail on the side of the cupboard and, ladling into it a few handfuls of popcorn we had grown that summer, he would shake it over the fire until the tender white grains began bursting with a staccato clatter. After a huge panful had been popped, Mother would melt a generous slice of butter and stir it into the fluffy mass. Sometimes, for a change, we parched sweet corn — the hard, dry kernels being placed in a skillet, with butter and salt, and heated until they swelled to double their volume and became crisp and crunchy; or we made popcorn balls, or pulled taffy, using Mother's scissors to cut it into fat little pillows. For extra-special occasions, we might have even a dish of fruit; but apples must be shipped all the way from Oregon, and, consequently, were scarce and expensive; oranges were never seen save at Christmas time, and bananas were seldom seen at all. With the hour drawing toward nine, Father would shake down the grate and poke the embers, sending a shower of gleaming sparks sailing into the dark night. Games and books laid aside, we would pull our chairs to the fire. With Zip, the Collie, resting her cold muzzle on Father's knee and looking searchingly into his face, and Stripes, the tiger cat, purring contentedly on