SALADS FOR HEALTH AND BEAUTY 109 Fruit FrencH DRESSING Y% cup orange juice ' cup salad or olive oil % cup pineapple juice % teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 teaspoon sugar Combine all ingredients. Beat or shake until well blended. PINEAPPLE DRESSING "4 cup sugar 1% cups pineapple juice, or combination 2 tablespoons cornstarch of orange and pineapple dash celery salt 4 egg yolks, slightly beaten % teaspoon salt "% cup lemon juice Mix dry ingredients in the top of a double boiler. Stir in the pineapple juice. Cook over boiling water, stirring constantly until mixture thickens. Cover and cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir a little of the hot mixture into slightly beaten egg yolks. Add to remaining hot mixture. Cook over hot water, stirring constantly for 3 minutes. Stir in lemon juice. Chill. When the dressing is cool, fold in 1 cup of heavy cream, whipped. —~<>+ Pra rte Vin fer Grace Barker Wilson All night long, under frozen sky With never a hint of stars or moon, The prairie lay like a dragon fly Wrapped in an eiderdown cocoon. No wind ruffled the icy air Nor stirred a flake of the falling snow; Not even a track of wild thing there To mar the quietness below. With ashen face the morning came, But no sun pierced the overcast, While winter's undisputed claim Held all the prairie frozen fast. Mlary Blanchard Williams Decorates Cakes ARY Blanchard Williams, St. Anthony, Idaho, has developed a hobby which makes use of her artistic abilities and, at the same time, proves to be useful and challenging. She is especially skillful in making ornately decorated cakes for special occasions. The cake which she made for the 111th birthday anniversary of Relief Society was a masterpiece of graceful scrolls and leaf and flower designs, bearing the motto: "Charity Never Faileth." Mrs. Williams has found that a cake made especially for an important occasion makes that occasion even more important in the memories of people who are eager to cherish the happening of a birthday celebration, a wedding, or a wedding anniversary, or the delights of a holiday. Mrs. Williams, as a young woman, was left a widow with six children and a farm. With the help of her boys, she managed the farm, and with great success she reared her children and educated them. Later, she married again, and by this marnage became mother to eight stepchildren. She has shared with her large family the experiences of missions, college education, friendships, and the deep joy of seeing children mature into useful and happy citizens and devoted members of the Church. Moreover, she has found time for much Church work, including eight years as a Primary president, ward organist and ward chorister for many years, and for five years she served as president of Yellowstone Stake Relief Society. In her happy, busy life, Mrs. Williams exemplifies the old saying: "If you want something done well, ask a busy person to do it." Sime Mabel Jones Gabbott Time is a fleet winged chariot whose wheels Trace on one's face for all the world to see Unspoken thoughts, and words, and all one feels, In fretful lines or smooth serenity. Page 110