[Vol28 | October 1941 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Plan for Memorizing the Soderborg]
Plan For Mlemortzing She Articles Of Faith Reprinted by permission of E. Frank Soderborg God? 1. We believe in God the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. Men? 2. We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression. Mankind? 38. We believe that, through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 4
Principles? 4. We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, Repentance; third, Baptism by immersion for the remission ig fourth, laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy ost. Hands? 5. We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof. 6th of April? 6. We believe in the same organization that existed in the Primitive Church; namely, apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, ete. 7
Tongues? 7. We believe in the gift of tongues, prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, interpretation of tongues, etc. Translate? 8. We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. Divine? 9. We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God. 10
Tribes? 10. We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes; that Zion will be built upon this [the American] continent; that Christ will reign personally upon the earth; and, that the earth will be renewed and, receive its paradisiacal glory. Odd One? 11. We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may. 12th Kings? 12. We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law. 18th Cor. 18. We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul?We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things.?Joseph Smith. NOTES The first article refers to God. The second article refers to men. The third article refers to mankind. In memorizing these first three we remember that God is first, men second, and mankind third, in order. The fourth article refers to the first four principles of the Gospel. The fifth article refers to "laying on of hands."
Hands suggests five fingers. The sixth article refers to organization and is suggestive of the sixth of April, the date on which the Church was organized. The seventh article refers to tongues; being plural, we say seven tongues.
