Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary TWIN FALLS FIRST WARD Twin Falls Stake HE above is a picture of the group which celebrated Daughters' Day in the Twin Falls First Ward. There were eighty-five mothers and daughters present in the group. Throughout the stake the day was appropriately celebrated. An impressive pageant, "The Courage of Mormon Women," was the feature program which included four episodes: The Convert, Crossing e Plains, The Colonizers, and Modern Courage. During the pageant musical numbers were given. These included: The Morning Breaks, Though Deepening Trials, Let The Mountains Shout For Joy, and the entire group sang Come, Come Ye Saints and Carry On. A very fine address on the spirit of Relief Society work was included. The oldest mother, the youngest mother, and the mother having most daughters present were honored. At the conclusion of the delightful program refreshments were served. Franklin Stake N Saturday afternoon, May 21, a very delightful entertainment was held for the closing session of the Franklin Stake Relief Society. There was a wealth of beautiful spring flowers in the chapel and the spirit of the occasion was greatly enhanced by the presence of President Louise Y. Robison and Counselor Kate M. Barker. A special feature was the launching of the Membership Drive. An arch made of yellow and blue flowers symbolizing the project, was very attractive. Stake and ward coordinators were introduced to the assembly in a unique way which caused them to sense the importance of their 550 calling. The Relief Society colors were most artistically used. This stake is proud of its one-hundred Singing Mothers who, in uniform, furnished the music for the Relief Society Stake Convention. There has been some very splendid work done in the field of health and in laying plans for preparing school children for the coming year. Clinics have been held in which all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE year were fittingly recognized during the program and at the conclusion refreshments were served to approximately three hundred. Idaho Falls Stake "THE picture below is from the Third Ward in the Idaho Falls Stake. It represents the women of the Singing Mothers group in this THIRD WARD, IDAHO FALLS STAKE the wards have had an opportunity to participate and great stress has been placed upon the health of children. This stake has a record of merit in the Magazine Drive. Eight out of the ten wards received honors. Through cooperation much has been accomplished in the Work and Business department. Extension work of the State University has been a great asset, particularly in its homemaking activities. The fine activities of the past ward. They are costumed in the styles of the "gay nineties". This picture was taken at the annual Daughters' Day celebration which was held on April 19. The lesson for the day was the second one on the Romance of an Old Playhouse. Everyone on the program was in costume. The lesson was splendidly given. The literary course has proven to be one of the most popular in the Relief Society.