THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—-Charity Never Faileth LOUISE Stee Gets - c c B - AMY BROWN L L KATE M. BARKER -:: c JULIA A. F. LUND - - = Jennie B. Knight. Emma A. Empey Ida P. Beal Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine "THE GENERAL. BOARD Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford - President First Counselor - Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jengen Beatrice F, Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Manager - Louise Y. Robison Vout



VOL. XXV AUGUST, 1938 No. 8
Editorials
Appreciation of the Beautiful
IN the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.... And God saw that it was good.
One of our inheritances from our Heavenly Father is this love of creation and experiencing joy in seeing that the things created is good and beautiful. One of mankind's most exalted moods is that mood in which he views a product of his own creative genius with approval and has the thrilling consciousness that it never would have been were it not for him. When any work draws out of one the best of which he is capable there is spiritual growth. When one makes a conscious effort to develop so that his best is the expression of truth and beauty, there is the greatest of spiritual growth.
How desperately the world needs the exalted ideal of work! How fortunate is the country with a well-developed folk art! How fortunate is the home with an heirloom, the value of which is increased by time because of the character of the work which is the expression of the truth and beauty of the soul of the artist. The spirituality which he developed with his work will enrich our lives as we grow in appreciation of the truth and beauty expressed. Destroying such a piece of work is sacrilege. It is destroying art, and behind any work of art is the soul of the artist.
A love and an