8 National Conference of Social Work Seattle, Washington—June 26-July 2, 1938 SOCIAL workers in the United States are found in every type of tax-supported and voluntary activity which has to do with the welfare of human beings who for one reason or another (physical or mental illness, unemployment, death, desertion, instability, foreignness) suffer from interruption in the conduct of their own lives and activities in the social structure, and who are thus led to seek personal assistance and supplementary resources. "Social workers are employed by private social agencies and by governmental departments under federal, state, county and city auspices; by citizens' committees; civic organizations and religious denominations; 4 by schools, hospitals, courts and industrial bodies. They work in rural districts and in cities of every size. "The types of activity in which social workers engage may be classified roughly under the headings social case work, social group work, community organization, and social research." Social case workers endeavor to assist individuals or families who wish some type of aid because their problems of living, temporarily or permanently, are beyond their capacity to solve without help. Individuals usually need opportunities for group association and recreation as part of their normal social life. Group workers undertake to meet this need by establishing and conducting recreation centers, clubs of various kinds and leisure-time activities for boys and girls, men and women. Social programs must be planned in relation to community needs so that these needs may be adequately met, i. E. Public health programs, community chests. This is the process of community organization. Research workers study social conditions and the experience of social agencies to determine the adequacy of existing services and the more obscure causes lying back of social problems. With the rapid development of social work under both private and public auspices, the importance of improving the quality of service is being increasingly recognized. WITH this end in view the National Conference of Social Work convened in Seattle, Washington, June 26, for its 65th annual meeting. Simultaneously, fifty other national organizations devoted to specialized fields of social service convened as associate groups of the National Conference of Social Work. The conference continued for one week. More than 350 sessions were held and more than 400 speakers appeared on the blended programs. The conference, declared to be one of the largest ever held on the Pacific Coast, drew over 3,000 delegates from all parts of the United States 506 and Canada. America's major economic and social problems were attacked: unemployment relief, social security, and general human welfare in all its phases, providing a sweeping survey of current problems. The group included professionally trained as well as volunteer workers—men and women of good will trying to learn how best to lift human life to its highest level through the promotion, improvement and interpretation of welfare services. It was Lincoln who said in his immortal Gettysburg address, 'That this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom". So this great body of intelligent Christians are striving to give the nation a new birth of freedom--freedom from poverty, illness, loneliness, frustration, and the innumerable handicaps which prevent men and women everywhere from living the abundant life. Meeting together, they bring to one another a breadth of vision, enlightened understanding of the great social movement, the newest in technique and practice as well as more clearly defined goals. The ideal "that man can adjust to his advantage if enough men wish it so" permeated the conference. The theory that the "'care of all is the concern of all" exuded from every department. 'To the extent that a single individual is sick the community ls sick, to the extent that a single individual is delinquent, the community is delinquent, to the extent that a single individual is impoverished, the community is impoverished, to the extent that a single individual is underprivileged, the community is underprivileged," was an outstanding doctrine of the group. Social welfare must mean much more than relief as the word is commonly understood. Relief must not be divorced from service and service extends itself beyond the providing of food, clothing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and shelter to a devotion to the complete range of human needs—physical, mental and emotional. Social Welfare must be interpreted as concern for complete rehabilitation in all the casualties of life. "Relief never built a nation and security will néver keep one." HE conference swung into action with an opening address prepared by Dr. Solomon Lowenstein of New York, president of the organization, in which he warned the United States that unless it develops methods equally efficient to those of the totalitarian states, it will find itself surpassed by those nations in both employment and the standard of living. The final test of American democracy he said must be a higher standard of living and industrial life and security for the citizenry. The churches held a place of dignity and status in the conference program. Much is being accomplished by the Catholics and Jewish groups while the Protestant group is fast coming to the fore. The Rev. Worth M. Tippy of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, New York City, said that the revival which churches have been praying for is literally happening and challenged church leaders to see it. The churches have been preaching, content with the word; Christ in action is the desirable thing. The church must be a functioning agency in human betterment and adjustment. Social work is moving forward and the church must go with it, must be in line with the knowledge and experience of social leaders. The church is the ideal social agency. Experience shows that people are going to come to churches when the stresses of life are pronounced and the church. Must meet them with as competent leadership as any social agency plus its great spiritual resource. Skill > NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORK equal to that of the agency coupled with the spiritual strength of the church is the ideal and is not impossible of attainment. That the Nation is child welfare conscious was evidenced in the many departments held for this particular phase of welfare work. Miss Mary Irene Atkinson, of the Federal Children's Bureau, U. S. Dept of Labor, assured those present that an understanding service to children is in the process of growing. "Every child," she said, "should be made to feel that he is a blessing in the sight of the Lord." The aim of those engaged in this work is to develop a children's program such that "the potential capacities of all children shall not be cramped by either penury or privilege." Case needs of the aged were given due consideration. Reaching beyond the need of financial security the aged have many needs not least of which is a sense of "renewal with the current of life." To release and develop latent potentialities for intelligent participation in life is most important. Happiness lies in the fullest participation in life according to one's abilities, physical and mental, and the aged are entitled to full happiness. Social treatment of the adult offender was presented in discussion groups under the able leadership of Edgar M. Gerlach, the supervisor of social service for the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Considered in these discussion groups were the alcoholic, the mentally deficient offender, the drug addict, the prostitute, and the psychopathic offender. Psychiatrists and psychologists advanced the thesis that "no criminal, or anyone else for that matter, does the things he does entirely of his own conscious volition, but that mental and physical functioning entirely out of the indi- 507 viduals' awareness and control, always have something to do with all of living as it expresses itself by behavior, whether this behavior be good or bad." Discussants agreed that criminality has its bases in medical and social conditions as well as in legal definitions and that the individual approach is necessary for the rehabilitation of an offender. The roots of crime are probably in the foundations of our social order and probably only a radical change toward a more just social order will bring about any large measure of cure. Aubrey Williams, deputy administrator of the Works Progress Administration, in a stimulating paper dealt with the right of every employable citizen to a job. "From the point of view of social justice and sound economic efficiency," said Williams, "'the proper way to deal with the unemployed is to provide everyone with socially useful work, at his regular occupation or as near as possible to it, and at his regular rate of pay." The right to work, the right to a job for the people, must be recognized. Mr. Williams commended the American people for their stability. He said, "During the last nine months we have been able to go through a severe business depression without any serious disturbances, without panic. This is something in which all can take pride." ANY nationally known figures appeared on the Conference programs, among them Miss Margaret Bondfield, former minister of labor of Great Britain; Sanford Bates, executive secretary of the Boy's Club of America, New York City, and former director of the federal bureau of prisons; David D. Adie, commissioner of New York state department of social welfare; 508 Miss Elsa Castendyck, director, delinquency division of the U. S. Children's Bureau; Richard A. Chappell, acting supervisor, bureau of prisons, U. S. Department of Justice; C. C. Carstens, executive director, Child Welfare League of America, New York; Miss Helen Hall, head worker of the famous Henry Street Settlement, New York; John Slawson, director, Jewish Board of Guardians, New York; Grace Abbott, Professor of Public Welfare Administration, University of Chicago, and many others equally eminent. The conference gave striking evidence that many of the Nation's most intelligent men and women, animated by a spirit of Christian service, are giving their time and ability to a better understanding of human needs and the most enlightened methods of adequately meeting them. Rapid progress is being made in a constantly growing field of vital importance. Private agencies as well as public should give increased attention to pS RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE provisions for opportunity for greater understanding and advancement in this important work. Those whose responsibility it is to work in the field of social welfare should acquire competence, developed through careful preparation and self-development on the job. Mr. Adie in one of the concluding addresses of the conference urged upon social workers vision, high standards and intelligent service. Because a person is in trouble, he said, because difficulties too great for him to bear alone have slipped upon him like a thief in the night, social agencies cannot send to his assistance anything but the very best in training, understanding, judgment, and humility. The social worker must set his standards high. "He who builds below the stars builds too low." A nation of happy, well adjusted citizens was the goal of the Master when he said, "I am come that ye might have life and have it more abundantly." — LIFE'S MYSTERY By Olive C. Wehr You never would suppose The thorny old desert cactus Could bloom like the rose; Nor that the slimy, creeping snail Could build a pearl house, So beautifully frail; Nor that pain and grief Could bring understanding To give another relief. How strange life's mystery That out of pain or ugliness Should come most beauty! An Evening With the Bible By Sidney B. Sperry ET'S start a Bible study group, L Mary, and meet every other Sunday evening after church. I think most of the young people in our crowd would be thrilled with the idea. Each of the group could take turns at entertaining in his home and, besides, just think how much we could learn while having a good time." "Say, Beth, that's an idea. The refreshments could be the usual ice cream and cake or fruit drink—so very little trouble. We could invite the Bishopric and their wives to join us. In fact, I think they will welcome the idea, because it ought to keep us out of mischief—at least part of the time." "But who can we get to lead the discussions?" said Beth, '"That's my worst concern." "Why not plan our first meeting," suggested Mary, "and invite young Professor Mack from the University to give us an informal talk on the Bible. He would be glad to answer questions for us, too. Such an arrangement would create interest and give us plenty of time to select a live and peppy leader." "You're just too bright for words, Darling. Let's go!" * * * * Dp» I understand you to say, Dr. Mack," said the Bishop, very much interested, "that even women have made translations of the Bible? I was always under the impression that men kept that field pretty much to themselves." "It may doubtless be a surprise to many of you," answered Professor Mack, "to know that several women have tried their hand at Bible translation. One of the most recent translations of the New Testament in modern speech was that made by Mrs. Helen Barrett Montgomery of Rochester, N. Y. It was originally published in two volumes at Philadelphia, Pa., in 1924, to celebrate the first hundred years of service of the American Baptist Publication Society. The translation is also available in a cheaper and more convenient one volume edition. Mrs. Montgomery introduces each book of the New Testament with information of value. There are chapter headings and topics also for each subdivision, in prominent type, at the head of the paragraph. Some of the themes of these paragraph headings are interesting. Consider: 'Paul's Swan Song'; 'Orchestrate Your Virtues'; 'A " 'Close-up' " of Sin', etc. The book is very modern in make-up with direct discourse in quotation marks, chapter and verse numbers in the margin, quotations from the Old Testament in italics and Scripture references are in the footnotes." "T should much like to get a New Testament answering that description," said Bob Russell, "but is the translation well done?" "Yes, it is really quite well done. Some of the renderings are very striking, and altogether the translation runs along with smoothness and grace. It is a credit to Mrs. Montgomery. Other women have also worked on the New Testament. Mrs. Mary Higgs (nee Kingsland) was one of the two original sponsors of the Twentieth Century New Testament, the publication of which was begun in 1898, and the final revision appeared in New York and London in 1904. Mrs. Higgs was one of the translators. The work was done with decided ability, though it has 510 some obvious drawbacks. Then we must not forget two famous sisters, Mrs. Agnes Smith Lewis and Mrs. Gibson, of Cambridge, England, who discovered in 1892, an ancient manuscript of the four Syriac Gospels in a convent on Mt. Sinai. Their find created great interest in scholarly circles. In 1894 Mrs. Lewis published a translation of the newly found Syriac Manuscript, and in 1896 she published a new edition with a retranslation of certain parts. The two sisters were Greek scholars and among their many accomplishments, if I remember correctly, they could speak modern Greek. Mrs. Lewis was honored by many universities on the Continent and in England. I suppose it would be fair to say that Mrs. Lewis was the greatest woman Bible scholar of all times." 'All the women you have mentioned thus far," said Mary Harmon, "have worked on the New Testament. Have any ever translated the whole Bible?" "So far as I am aware, the only woman who ever translated the whole Bible into any language was Julia E. Smith of Glastonbury, Connecticut. She published her version in English at Hartford, Connecticut, in 1876, and at her own expense. The translation consumed seven years. During that time she translated the Hebrew twice, the Greek twice and the Latin once. In her version she arranged the Old Testament books in the ancient Hebrew order. That was good, but unfortunately her. Translation was too slavishly literal. Greek and Hebrew idioms were carried over into English with bad effect. In the preface to her translation she says: (here the professor consulted a note) 'It may be thought by the public in general that I have great confidence in myself, in not conferring with the learned in so great a work, but as there is but one RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE book in the Hebrew tongue, and I have defined it word for word, I do not see how anybody can know more about it than I do'." "That lady thought she knew her stuff, Doctor," interjected Bill Summs, to the amusement of all. "Yes, indeed," continued Professor Mack, ''but that isn't all, she became prominent politically and a champion of the Woman's Suffrage party. To cap it all she married in her eighty-seventh year to a young man one year her junior, and lived happily ever after. But she does not complete the list of women who: have translated the Bible or part of it. I might briefly mention three others. An English lady by the name of Elizabeth Smith taught herself Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Arabic, French, Italian, Spanish 'and German; she then rendered the book of Job into English before she was twenty-six years of age. That was no mean accomplishment. She died in 1806, at the age of thirty, and her translation, with notes, was published at Bath, England, in 1810 by Rev. T. Randolph. Another English woman, Helen Spurrell, the wife of a Church of England minister, learned Hebrew by her own efforts after she was fifty years of age. She then proceeded to translate the Old Testament into English. Whenever she thought it was possible to improve on the Hebrew text, she did not hesitate to adopt readings from the Samaritan Pentateuch or the Septuagint (the Greek Old Testament). Her style of translation doesn't vary much from that of the Authorized Version. Textual and explanatory notes are found at the bottom of the page in her version which was printed in 1885. This edition of the Bible now sells at a rather high figure. The last woman translator I shall mention is Ethel Cutler who was one of. The translators of Dr. Charles Foster AN EVENING WITH THE BIBLE Kent's Shorter Bible which appeared in New York between the years 1918-1921." "Well, I declare,' observed the Bishop, "what you have said about the women translators of the Bible is certainly interesting, but," he added with a twinkle in his eye, "we'll never hear the last of it from our wives if you tell us anything more about them." "Oh, you men think that women can't do anything intellectual. You're just jealous, that's all," the Bishop's wife retorted amid the laughter of everyone in the room. ND now, Dr. Mack," said George Lewis, "I wonder if you would mind telling us something about mistranslations in the Bible. That's a subject I'm very much interested in, but have never heard competently discussed.. We've quoted the Eighth Article of Faith all our lives without really knowing the meaning of it." "Yes, I shall be only too glad to discuss it," said the Doctor. "The fact is that few people of our Church really understand all the implications of the Prophet Joseph Smith's 'We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly.' There are many passages in the Bible that are correctly translated from our present Hebrew and Greek texts that we do not believe. Let me make my point clear by referring to a revelation given in the year 1833 when Joseph Smith asked the Lord whether or not he should - translate the Apocrypha. The answer was: 'Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you concerning the Apocrypha —There are many things contained therein that are true, and it is mostly translated correctly; there are many things contained therein that are not true, which are interpolations by the hands of men.' The revelation makes clear that some things in the Apoc- 511 rypha are not true though it is 'mostly translated correctly.' The same principle holds true of the Bible. Nor need we suppose that Joseph Smith was not aware of this fact. Between the years 1830 and 1833 the Prophet, at the Lord's command, made a revision of the Bible (Authorized Version) by the spirit of revelation. In many parts of it he made profound changes. Sometime, examine a few chapters of his revision such as Genesis 1:50; Isaiah 29; Matthew 4 etc. Many of the changes made go far beyond anything we understand at this day by a 'correct' translation. What, then, did Joseph mean when he said, 'We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly.' Let him give his own answer: 'I believe the Bible as it read when it came from the pen of the original writers. Ignorant translators, careless transcribers, or designing and corrupt priests have committed many errors. As it read, Genesis 6:6, " 'It repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth';" also, Numbers 23:19, '* "God is not a man, that he should lie; neither the Son of Man, that he should repent';" which I do not believe. But it ought to read, " "It repented Noah that God made man.' "' This I believe, and then the other. Quotation stands fair.' You see, the Prophet's use of 'translation' in the Eighth 'Article of Faith is much broader than one may at first suppose. His position may be summed up this way: We believe the Bible to be the word of God if (1) we have the text as it left the hands of the original writers and (2) that original text is correctly translated in the common sense of the term." "That does seem sensible," observed Beth Stewart, "for many times. I have thought that Buble translators have rendered correctly enough certain passages that all of 512 us recognize as being contradictory. When contradictions occur it does not necessarily mean that the translators are at fault. They simply do the best they can with the text they have inherited." "Well said, Miss Beth. What you have concluded is true. In order to correct many errors in the Bible we need a much better text than we have. Let me show you how a great American scholar, Dr. E. J. Goodspeed, recognizes that fact and attempts to rectify a passage in the New Testament that he believes is faulty. The type of change he makes in the text is called by scholars conjectural emendation. The reference in question is I Peter 3:19. Professor Goodspeed, following the suggestion of Dr. Rendel Harris, inserts the name Enoch in this verse because he thinks it was omitted by a 'scribe's blunder in dropping some repeated letters.' He then renders the verse as follows: 'In it Enoch went and preached even to those spirits that were in prison.' Every translator is an interpreter and apparently Dr. Goodspeed's theology prevented him from accepting the view that Christ, following his crucifixion, went to the spirits in prison and preached. According to Latterday Saint theology Dr. Goodspeed has mistranslated the verse in question, but if we were to accept his reconstruction of the original Greek, then it would follow that his translation of the verse is correct." "Tt would appear then from what you say, that some modern translations would not be wholly acceptable to Latter-day Saints,' said Reed Jones, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Yes, that is true. Now let me introduce another verse of special interest to our people. It is Malachi 3:10, last clause, which the Authorized Version translates: That there shall not be room enough to receive it. I hardly like to call this rendition a_mistranslation, but it certainly gives many people a wrong impression of the meaning intended by Malachi. It literally means 'until there is no more need,' i. E., of rain. Let me translate the whole verse for you. 'Bring ye the whole tithe to the store-house, that there may be provision in my house, and prove me now herewith, saith Jehovah of hosts, if I do not open you the floodgates (or windows, see same word in Genesis 7:11) of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, until there is no more need.' In other words, the Lord will see to it that His people will lack none of the precious element so necessary in the production of good crops if the people will obey His commandments. That this is the interpretation of the verse is apparent from what follows in verse 11. And now,—but I see our hostess approaching with refreshments. Figuratively, I must fold up my tent and silently steal away." * * * & ANP do you know, Mary, what I did," said Beth, after the guests had left her home, "I got Dr. Mack to promise me he would come to our next meeting and continue his discussion." "Well, I hope he will be the permanent leader for our Bible class somehow, don't you?' answered Beth. Cro The Red Seas of Life By Caroline Eyring Miner LOVE the Red Sea story of Exodus: "And they said unto Moses, Because there were no graves in Egypt, has thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? Wherefore hast thou dealt thus with us to carry us forth out of Egypt? "And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will show to you today; for the Egyptians whom ye have seen today, ye shall see them again no more for ever. "The Lord shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace. And the Lord said unto Moses, Wherefore criest thou unto me? Speak: unto the children of Israel, that they go forward; But lift thou up thy rod, and stretch out thine hand over the sea, and divide it; and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea.... "And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night, and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided. "And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground; and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left." HERE is solace and comfort in this biblical incident. How often we are pushed from behind by our enemies and confronted before by an impassible sea. These are the occasions when we cannot go back nor around but must go through. And how can we go through except with unfaltering faith and trust in the God of Heaven that He will somehow cause the waters of our Red Sea to divide as He did in the days of Moses. Sometimes we are pushed into the waters of our Red Sea almost to the drowning depth before our faith and trust in God part the treacherous waters and let us walk into the midst of the sea in safety. I am thinking now of the Red Sea one mother faced recently. Her dearly beloved son had been killed in an accident, he who was the hope, the pride, the motivating center of her life. There was no calling him back; there was no use for the precautions she might have taken; there was no substitute for her loss. Ina word, pushed from behind by reality she could not go around this Red Sea of tragedy; she could not go back and avoid it; she could only trust in God to give her faith and strength to live through and beyond her loss, to part the waters and let her walk on dry ground. Confronted by the Red Sea with the armed Egyptians close upon their " heels, God said unto Moses, "Speak unto the children of Israel that they go forward." They were pushing toward a goal, the land of Canaan and there was no way but forward and through. In our struggles we are pushing toward exaltation in the life eternal and in certain crises for us there is no way but forward and through. There are many situations in our lives that must be faced and somehow lived through: there are the births of our babies, the deaths of our loved ones, the meeting of financial disasters, injury to our children. These Red Sea occasions are the test of our trust and faith in God. If we have sufficient trust and faith in Him we shall walk through on dry ground, Anna Stoddart Barlow By Myrtle Willes Bailey IFE has its sunbursts. There L are moments that are sweet and days that are divine..." —Gordon. These must have been the thoughts of the petite Ada Stoddart as she gazed into the large, blue eyes of her baby Anna, for Anna it seems came into the world smiling. And has gone about lending her smile of bursting sunshine "for others to live upon." Anna Stoddart Barlow was born in American Fork, Utah, the last child of a family of four boys and eight girls. When she was one year old her parents moved to Lehi where she lived for thirty years. She received her education in the schools at Lehi and did special secretarial work. She is the daughter of Robert and Ada Lucy Steel Stoddart, both pioneers. Her father came to Utah with the first Handcart Company and her mother came by ox-team in 1862. They were English converts. Mr. Stoddart died when the children were young, leaving Mrs. Stoddart to rear her family alone. She was a woman of courage and determination and was proud of her family. From her teachings we recognize her favorite proverbs: "Prepare thy work without, and make it fit for thyself in the field, and afterwards build thy house." And second: "My child, if thine heart be wise my heart shall rejoice, even mine." Anna, who has always had a desire to please her mother, can be assured that her mother's heart has rejoiced. Sister Anna spreads sunshine not only through her smile but by song. When she was very young she took leading parts in operettas appearing as a dainty fairy unafraid. Later she sang with the Areo Glee Club of Wahiy. Anna has worked in church organizations since she was a very young girl. Always she called to her aid those silent partners dependability, enthusiasm, honesty, kindness, loyalty, and sincerity; people recognized these at once. She worked first as Sunday School teacher and later in the Primary. She has served as Ward Y. W. M. I. A. Secretary, Alpine Stake Board Y. W. M. I. A. Secretary, and second counselor in Alpine Stake Y. W. M. I. A. In 1923 Anna was married to Ellis E. Barlow, now a member of the Central Park Ward Bishopric, who is ever anxious to assist her in the home and in her church duties. As sister Louise T. Barkdull has said, "He helps her spread the welcome mat at the door and leads you in to find no clutter, no pretense, but hospitality in abundance and comfort in an immaculate home." Here you are brought to see, "Where love is there God is also." A short time after they were married they moved into Central Park Ward of Salt Lake City. Here Anna worked in gradual succession first as counselor in the Primary, then Work and Business leader, second counselor, first counselor, and finally president of the Relief Society. She left this work to become assistant secretary, secretary, first counselor and then president of the Grant Stake Relief Society. Later she became chairman of the Salt Lake Regional Relief Society Committee of the Church Welfare Program. Her latest calling is to work on the General Board of the Relief Society. Here we have a literal example of ANNA STODDART BARLOW 515 ANNA STODDART BARLOW 516 the "sunshine of her smile," As the first warm rays of springtime fall impartially on all growing things that are in a position to receive them, so Sister Anna's smile is radiated on those about her. And as the signs of growth appear first in the grass and later in the shrubs and trees so Anna's influence has spread from lowly beginnings to the taller branches in that great field of endeavor, the Relief Society. Like the sunshine she has that gift of imbuing others with strength and of helping others to grow, and the organizations she works in grow as a natural consequence. Her sunniness has a certain evident power which acts as a driving force to others. In that lies her ability in leadership. Anna pays high tribute to the influence of her brothers and sisters RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE upon her life. The usual bonds which unite sisters have been exceptionally pronounced. Always keeping close contact with one another, ambitious for each other's good, these sisters have constantly aided and encouraged Anna and rejoiced in every opportunity and achievement which has been hers. Anna's fitness for Relief Society work was early evident. Never was there a time when she did not evince interest in the very young, the old, and the afflicted. She has often been seen on the walks of her home town leading a friend's child by the hand. But more impressive still has been her interest in old people. No effort in their behalf has been too great. Anna's work of the past is a guarantee of her future. Coe) THE SUPREME GIFT By Della Adams Leitner We may come to God the Father Yearning for a gift to bring, __ Feeling humbled by our weakness, Think we lack in everything; But He takes the gift we offer, Takes our longing, faith and prayer, Blesses these with His abundance Till we find that we can share. With this sharing comes a vision Of the gladness it inspires, Consecration to His service Is the gift that He desires. Luxury By Carla Wolfe puffy and pink from the scrubbing pail, but still as delicate and fine as on the day when Richard had kissed the little diamond into place, laughingly comparing his own rough ones, and whispered, "Prettiest hands in the whole world. I want to do all the work for both of us, Sweetheart, and keep your little hands soft for kissin'." She had protested, shyly, "I don't want luxury, I just want—you." But looking back today, she figured she had had more than her share of luxuries, even though they'd been through some bitter times together. Richard was gone now, with his faithful gnarled hands. And it was Richard's small grandson, Dickiebird, who had scribbled all over the tiled kitchen linoleum with some fiendish wax crayon, thus making the scrubbing such an exhausting ordeal today. Richard's only son, lovable big Rich, had paid for the expensive linoleum and the crayons, cheerfully unaware that they were to cause his adored mother this stabbing pain in her back. Gratefully, Gram reached her own room and sank to the couch by the window. It was a pretty room, this guest room which Rich and Ellen H ER slender old hands were had given her when she came to live' with them. It was spacious and cool and sunny, with plenty of places to put her treasured photographs and assorted keepsakes. Best of all, it was her own, a quiet little haven for resting and dreaming and remembering, away from the hustle and confusion that always surrounded Ellen and the babies. Gram looked at the clock on her dresser, with the little-girl smile she used when she asked a special favor, as if she now were really beseeching the friendly little timepiece to be generous with the minutes it would grant her here alone. Half-past one. Dickie-bird would nap for a good hour longer, and Mariellen until her feeding time at three. Pies were already baked for dinner, and salad jelling in the molds. Steak and cauliflower wouldn't take long to cook. She'd have time to write that long letter to Zilla later in the afternoon, unless the baby was cross, or Ellen arrived home from the club too late to press her dress for the concert tonight. Gram snuggled into her zephyr afghan and closed her eyes, thinking: "Dear Zilla, you must try to forgive me again for not coming to see you, and not writing for such a long time. I know how lonely you are in that big house with nobody but that housekeeper of yours...." (No, better not write that—) "You'll just have to put me down as a poor excuse for a friend, Zilla dear," her darting brain scribbled on, "for I haven't an earthly excuse. Ellen and Rich have every electrical device under heaven to do the work forthem..." (How I'd love to junk them. Gadgets for lazybones, and messy to keep clean!) Gram's imaginary letter had given pause again. "T have this beautiful big room of my own, with a perfect view of the mountains...." (only I'm never in it except when I'm too dog tired to keep my eyes open!) ".. And I do wish you would get over your nonsense and come to visit me. Ellen had no idea of snubbing you, I'm sure. She's just a bit odd in her ways, like the rest of this new gen- 518 eration. It couldn't be that we're the odd ones, could it, now?" MARIELLEN'S little scratchy wail roused Gram to swift wakefulness. How long had she been asleep? It was after three-fifteen! A quarter hour past feeding schedule. And where, oh where, was Dickie-bird? Like a little flurried bird herself, she rinsed her face, smoothed her wavy white hair, snatched a fresh apron and scuttled down the hall. What would Ellen say if she were to come in now? The breaking in to her luxurious afternoon naps had been hardest of all to get used to, since Ellen had let the maid go. But it would have been folly to keep Janie, with two able-bodied women in the house— and such an easy house to keep clean. Why, within a month of the day Gram had moved in she herself was accomplishing twice as much work as Janie (who drew handsome wages every week) and in half the time. Still, Gram had rather expected that Ellen would stay home more and assume a larger share of the duties, especially the babies. Gram adored naughty little Dickie-bird, and she could have kissed Mariellen breathless a hundred times a day, if such a grandmotherly luxury had not been forbidden. But sometimes their devious schedules, their noisy tantrums, their little mountains of untidy clothing and toys, were too much to cope with as blithely as she might have done in younger days. Still, she should be thankful for this lovely home with them, and for the effusive affection and gratitude they often lavished upon 'her. She was thankful! "I am happy," she would insist to herself whenever her sharp little nose got to feeling out of joint. "Much better, as Rich says, to be with my own family, than a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 'companion' for Zilla—which is just a genteel way of saying 'hiring out'. ' 'But Mother!" Rich had protested, horrified, when she had faced the decision between the two. Her little income had been swept almost entirely away, on one of those stupid economic chute-the-chutes the country was taking, and Zilla had begged her girlhood chum to come and live with her. The idea had looked quite rosy until Rich's objections had left it pale. "You must not even consider such a thing. You're my own and only mother and you belong in my home, and that's all there is to say about it. Working for a living at your age...." "But, Son, it isn't as if Zilla were paying me,' Gram had protested a bit meekly. "TI still have a little money." "That's just it—a very little. Enough to buy your own pretty lace hankies, and that's about all. Of course you haven't considered that getting your board and room is exactly the same as accepting pay from your friend. No, my darling Mother, the very idea is preposterous. Besides, what position would that put me in, in our friends' eyes? Or Ellen? Or the kids? Now listen to me, once and for all. You're moving to our house—to your house from now on-—at once. And you're going to spend the rest of your long life in blessed luxury!" Well, here she was, Gram reflected, as she lugged the wailing Mariellen from her crib, giving Ellen's jade satin chaise lounge— symbol of blessed luxury—a fittle kick with the toe of her slender slipper, in passing. LLEN was late getting home from club. She skipped in, her color high from driving in the wind, LUXURY her big blue eyes bright with pleasant thoughts. "Oh, Rich!" she answered her husband's hug with a snuggle against his chest. "I was just afraid you'd beat me home, and be starved to death, poor darling! But Rich! The best news! Just guess who.... Oh, hello, Gram dear. Hope I didn't keep you waiting dinner. I'll be right in. I'll tell you about it later, Rich." She tried to pull away but he held on to her wrist, looking at her. "You're looking powerful sweet this evening," he murmured, loverlike, looking down. Then he began to hum a popular tune, "Stay as sweet as you are...." Gram went back to the kitchen. There was something in the air at dinner, no getting around it. Rich failed to render his usual hearty tribute to the steak, broiled to perfection. And Ellen fiddled with the delectable mold of salad as if it had been so much left-over cole slaw. To break a long silence, which Gram abhorred at table, she ventured, "I pressed your green crepe, Ellen, when I saw it was getting late. Is that the one you planned to wear?" "Oh, yes. Thanks, Gram darling. You're too good to me." But the ex-' pression was almost perfunctory. "Too good to all of us," Rich chimed in—but his tone was not all there, either. The lemon cream pie—a masterpiece if there ever was one—was eaten without comment. The next day went badly, from the very start. Rich overslept, gulped his breakfast standing up, and left for the office in a black mood. Dickie-bird developed a sudden distaste for his half-eaten cereal, and when Gram refused to give him jam on his toast, he howled so furiously that it woke the baby, and that woke Ellen, and then the daily clatter was on. 519 Ellen did not dash off today to the golf links or the beauty shop, but puttered about the house absently, almost uneasily. She had plenty of opportunity to unburden her mind, but it was not until late afternoon that she sought Gram in the kitchen and spoke up: "Gram darling, I hope you won't mind a little favor I'm going to ask of you. It's just... It's just..." Ellen, the self-assured, was stammering for words, her lovely little face stained with color. "Of course, Ellen. What?" "Well, you see... Margie Ingals is in town. She was my very dearest, closest friend at college. We were like sisters. And she's left— well, she and her husband are not— they have separated for a while, you see. And she has no family, no place to go. So I really thought I ought to...." "Invite her to stay here, of course!" Dear Gram was such a help! "Oh, I knew you'd be an angel and say just that!' Relief flooded Ellen's worries away. She ran across the kitchen and enveloped Gram in an impulsive squeeze. "You see, nobody's using Janie's room now," she went on cheerfully, though a trifle hurriedly, "and it's really an awfully nice room with its own bath, and all. And you spend such a little bit of time in your room anyway. You're absolutely sure you won't mind letting Margie have the guest room?" Gram's brown eyes did not change their expression, though they felt as if they were widening to cart wheels; and she remained her customary five feet two and a half, though she felt as if her body, like her spirit, had mounted loftily to tower over Ellen. "No, indeed, Ellen, I don't mind," she smiled graciously. "She's It's just 520 welcome to that room for as long as she wants it!' Her slender feet carried her out of the room at a firm, swift pace. LLEN and Rich found Gram in a rapt orgy of packing. What grand times she and Zilla would have, reminiscing over some of these old souvenirs: this first memory book of their school days together, the marriage book, and Rich's baby book. Later volumes were more incomplete. Why, she'd had no time since she'd lived here to paste in a single entry—and little inclination! Ellen had broken the news in advance, and Rich was armed with his familiar, blustering, affectionate weapons of protest. He was hurt and nonplussed when the best of them left the little old lady adamant. "But Mother dear," he cried in abject desperation. ''To think of you —YOU, of all people—in the position of a servant—a menial!" "Menial!'' snapped Gram, carefully stowing away a knitting bag and yarn. She would have time to finish that carriage robe for Mariellen, now. "I'll have a lovely fat housekeeper to spare me the menial work, and bring my breakfast to bed for me too if I want it—which I hope to heaven I never will!" "But Mom,"—as a little boy he had never wheedled more irresistibly. "We love you too much to let you go. Why—TI don't know what any of us will do without you. We won't know how to get along at all." "That's more like it," Gram agreed amiably. "I don't either. Still, your new guest will be here to help you out." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE T was two months later that Dickie-bird's letter arrived. It was printed in his sprawling kindergarten capitals, and Gram knew that Rich must have told him how to spell all the words, and knew also how Rich must have winced at the ordeal. "Dear Gram, please come back. My trike is broke and Mamma can't make cookies. Margie is mean to my dogs. I got spanked awful. Thank you for the choo choo train. Please hurry home." "That's what you get for having grandchildren!' Zilla chuckled as the two old friends reread the letter together in the morning room. "IT suppose you're going to turn soft and hurry back to them?" "Do I look like a lunatic?" little Gram replied amiably. "Til go back occasionally, bearing choo choo trains and dolls, and fool myself into thinking their shouts of welcome are for me alone. But I won't stay long enough to cease to be company again, don't worry." After a little pause she went on, "Besides, what would you do without me yourself? You need me here, to give that housekeeper of yours something to do besides get fat. At our age, Zilla, it does not hurt one mite to have folks waiting on us now and again." With luxurious satisfaction, she reached for the latest memory book, to paste in Dickie-bird's letter, on the page headed by the inscription: "Humorous