One of the functions of the Kirtland Temple was to serve as a place of learning. In the dedicatory prayer given to Joseph Smith by revelation, he said, "And do thou grant, Holy Father, that all those who shall worship in this house may be taught words of wisdom out of the best books, and that they may seek learning even by study, and also by faith, as thou hast said." (D. & C. 109:14.)
The great emphasis placed upon education by the Church suggests that learning is not only for the young. The courses of study outlined by the Relief Society assume we are never through learning; they are calculated to keep our minds plastic and ever receptive to new knowledge, for thus do we move along the path of eternal progress.
VI. A Few Hints on How to Face the Problem of Growing Older.
1. Keep mentally plastic through continually practicing the learning of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
new things and through acquiring new interests which will enliven your less active years. 2. Constantly change your habits to satisfy your changing bodily needs. Consult your doctor. 3. Be willing to delegate to young people those tasks which require radically new adjustments and great expenditure of energy. 4. Keep active at those things which you like but which do not call for strenuous adjustments. 5. Keep contact with young people whenever possible; learn not to be sensitive to their lack of understanding of the problems of older people. 6. Fight the habit of thinking that everything is all over for you. Think rather of old age as the happy interlude between two great acts in eternity.
Problems for Discussion:
1. Show how the findings of modern psychology on the relationship between learning and age fit into Latter-day Saint doctrines.
2. Why do people in middle age often cease to learn new things? How can they be aroused to continue their growth in skills, knowledge, and new attitudes?
3. Why do you think people become more interested in social and spiritual welfare as they become older (i. e. Through middle life)?
4. Think of an aged person you know who has preserved her adolescent alertness and teachability. How would you account for this achievement on her part?