NOTES FROM THE FIELD 58 The following is the winning poem the Tintic Stake Relief Society: SACAGAWEA By Melba Allen, Goshen Ward Farflung from out the thrilling past, Emblazoned bright in deeds that last, Are echoes of the great of old Whose hearts beat steadfast, high and bold. And lo! From out that echoing throng Comes a sweet story told in song, A saga, of a maid sincere Whom we should honor and revere. Sacagawea, far from home A captive maid had lived alone Within a strange and distant land Far from her father's loyal band. And oft when trees in green were dressed, When churning waters were at rest She walked along the forest glade And longed for home, this Indian maid. To Charbonneau she soon was wed. She found him harsh and cruel, instead Of loving, kind. T'was then she knew He scorned her skin of copperhue. In spite of trials and deep despair Her dauntless spirit kept her there A heroine in embryo Who on a mission soon would go. And then one morning clear and bright A straggling company came in sight. Adventurers bold, a: motley crew, They came into this land so new. New to the whitemen, yet so old To wandering tribes and chieftains bold. They journeyed westward to the s&, They hired a guide. "T'was none but She. Her papoose, small and newly born She strapped upon her sturdy form. Sure of her task as though 'twere done She led them toward the setting sun. As through the wilderness they'd roam Her native instinct led them home Unto her people's hunting ground Where aid and food they quickly found. No mortal pen can ever tell The trials, the sorrows that befell _ That noble band. And She, so brave, Their faith and food, their lives did save. Her light of courage ere shall cast From out the portals of the past A beacon to all womanhood To build a life of worth and good. * * * * Sacagawea, brave and true, Help us to be a guide like you! Tintic Stake in the Poetry Contest conducted by  



VOL. XXV AUGUST, 1938 No. 8
Editorials
Appreciation of the Beautiful
IN the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.... And God saw that it was good.
One of our inheritances from our Heavenly Father is this love of creation and experiencing joy in seeing that the things created is good and beautiful. One of mankind's most exalted moods is that mood in which he views a product of his own creative genius with approval and has the thrilling consciousness that it never would have been were it not for him. When any work draws out of one the best of which he is capable there is spiritual growth. When one makes a conscious effort to develop so that his best is the expression of truth and beauty, there is the greatest of spiritual growth.
How desperately the world needs the exalted ideal of work! How fortunate is the country with a well-developed folk art! How fortunate is the home with an heirloom, the value of which is increased by time because of the character of the work which is the expression of the truth and beauty of the soul of the artist. The spirituality which he developed with his work will enrich our lives as we grow in appreciation of the truth and beauty expressed. Destroying such a piece of work is sacrilege. It is destroying art, and behind any work of art is the soul of the artist.
A love and an appreciation of such beauty will add spiritual tone to any home. Every home should have some handmade article into which has entered the elements of beauty, proportion, harmony, good true workmanship, which will lead surely if unconsciously to an appreciation of the finest wherever found. If we have not, let us begin now to build for the future.
?Kate M. Barker.
Unselfish Giving
"LET no man seek his own but every man another's wealth." (I Cor. 10:24.)
The Master has truly said that it is more blessed to give than to receive but in giving as in all other activities wisdom is needful. The mother desiring all good for her child is willing to give of her strength, even of her life. But should she always carry the child to shield it from misstep, denying
EDITORIALS
it the opportunity to do, the child would never walk. The teacher who in her anxiety to push the pupil forward does the thinking for it, denies to it the right to grow. The social worker eager to assist people in distress unwisely giving of material assistance and service may actually retard the family's ability to overcome its difficulties and become self-sustaining.
Man's destiny is to become a creator and he is happiest when creating. Denied the opportunity to give of himself he stagnates. The satisfactions of giving are such that once enjoyed unwise giving may result. The psychologist tells us that the mastery satisfaction is fundamental in the psychology of man. Many people give to gratify the mastery impulse. Who does not upon occasion like to do the big thing?the generous thing?to be in reality "the Lady Bountiful?" Someone has said giving makes the sublime appeal to the "I am big" which lies deep-rooted within all mankind. At times we give, particularly of our means, to be relieved of further social responsibility.
There still remain many, however, whose endless giving is prompted purely by the spirit of the Master?the sincere love of fellow man. But no matter what the deep-seated and underlying motive for giving; be that giving material wealth or service, it builds strength and power?strength to overcome selfishness, to share, to love our neighbor as ourself?and is a source of genuine joy.
Sometimes, in our own selfish unselfishness we give to excess, standing in the way of others enjoying the same satisfactions and development which we so highly prize. Forceful personalities unintentionally but frequently monopolize the giving opportunities within the social group, submerging less aggressive members. When continued over long periods of time this may result in the individuals so denied having a feeling of inadequacy which affects personality even as lack of physical exercise affects muscular development.
We often give because we appreciate the fact that we are better able to do so than another, losing sight of the fact that the effect of doing is of greater value in personality than the thing done. There is no surer way to make a friend than to let a person do something for you. Abraham Lincoln recognized this truth and often employed it in winning erstwhile enemies. At one time he was bitterly opposed in Congress by a certain gentleman. So intense was the man's feelings against Lincoln that he refused to speak to him save when political necessity demanded. Lincoln learned that the gentleman owned a very valuable set of books. Approaching him one day he asked for the loan of one volume. Returning it a few days later he so sincerely expressed his appreciation that the gentleman offered another volume and still another. The result was that Lincoln won for himself a loyal supporter and a fast friend.
The Savior stands the pattern in giving as in all else. He invariably gave guidance and opportunity that joy and development might come to others. He had no need of the widow's mite but recognized the need of the widow to make the gift. "He that provides opportunity for another increases the fruits of his own righteousness."
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
LESSON 2
THE MEDITERRANEAN WORLD IN THE DAYS OF THE APOSTLES?(Cont'd.)
HELPFUL REFERENCES
H. E. Dana, The New Testament World, pages 126-162.
B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, pages 5-24.
J. P. Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, pages 8-14.
T. G. Tucker, Life in the Roman World of Nero and St. Paul, pages 260-337, 361-415.
Education in the Roman World.?We are far too prone to assume that education and scholarship are products of our own age and were not known to any extent in the days of the Apostles. But such assumption is not warranted. Scholarly researches and intellectual achievements were on a very high plane and compare very favorably in many respects with our own age. Even before the advent of Christianity the scientific achievements of the Greeks were remarkable. Sedgwick and Tyler have made the following statement: "In science the Greeks had to build from the foundations. Other peoples had extensive knowledge and highly developed arts. Only among the Greeks existed the true scientific method with its characteristics of free inquiry, rational interpretation, verification or rectification by systematic and repeated observation, and controlled deduction from accepted principles."
Mathematics and mathematical astronomy were the favorite Greek sciences. Next in order came medicine and anatomy, followed by geography, botany and the natural sciences in general. Chemistry was not considered as a science apart, but rather as a necessary stock-in-trade of manufacturers. Luke, the Greek physician, companion of Paul and the writer of the Gospel by his name, and the "Acts," was doubtless well schooled in the sciences and medical lore of his day. Tucker (p. 244) points out that the knowledge and skill of surgeons and physicians of that day were by no means contemptible, and their surgical implements and pharmacopoeia were surprisingly modern. The writer saw surgical implements that were used among the Romans of 79 A. D. While traveling in Italy. To say we were surprised would put it mildly. (See illustration in Tucker, p. 245.)
Physicians and surgeons didn't have the high social standing among the Romans that they have in our society. They, together with attorneys, artists, schoolmasters and clerks belonged to the "common" people, along with bakers, butchers, carpenters and the like. Luke was therefore a "commoner."
Among the Romans literature and oratory were considered the most important subjects from the cultural point of view. The Roman world produced a vast literature. Books were written in great numbers and scribes were specially trained for the task. Greek Universities were established in Rhodes, Tarsus, Alexandria, Marseilles, and Antioch. Alexandria was famous for its great library and museum.
Education was probably not nearly so widespread as today. There were no laws compelling children to go to school; their education depended upon the means and the attitude of the parents. Most of the teachers were men, but women teachers and scholars were by no means unknown.
We cannot pass on to another topic without saying something about philosophy. The unsatisfactory state of most religions in the days of the Apostles caused many persons with superior minds to turn to philosophy for comfort and solace. The impact of Christianity and contemporary philosophy had some interesting results. There can be no doubt but that the current philosophies of the Graeco-Roman world had their share of influence in corrupting the primitive simplicity and purity of the Christian teachings. The pagan influence on the so-called Christianity of post-apostolic days is still reflected in the religious sects and denominations of our western world.
It is necessary for Latter-day Saints who would understand the problems of the ancient Twelve to be conversant with the history of the philosophy of that day. Space forbids us from considering any of the philosophies with the exception of the two most common?Stoicism and Epicureanism. Professor Tucker says that the Stoics were the Pharisees, the Epicureans the Sadducees of pagan philosophy.
Stoicism came to be the characteristic Roman creed. At the time of the Apostles the prevailing philosophy was indeed Stoic in theory but Epicurean in practice. The school of Stoic philosophy was founded by one Zeno of Phoenician descent, who was born in 336 B. C. The school received its name from the place of meeting, the Painted Stoa, a colonnade on the north side of the Athenian market place. Although first taught in Athens the early devotees of Stoicism were generally Greeks who lived outside of Greece proper, in other words Hellenistic Greeks. The practical Stoic belief was of such a nature as to appeal to the grave Roman character and temperament. The stronghold of Stoicism finally came to be Rome. For several centuries the Stoic philosophy became the religion, at least in theory, of nearly all noble and educated Romans. It was expounded and taught by such great writers and thinkers as Cornutus, Lucan, Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius.
The main doctrines of Stoicism have been set down as follows: "Virtue, to the wise man, is the highest good. Fixed laws govern the Universe and these laws express the world-soul, of which the human soul is a part. Goodness is to be found in the true knowledge of nature, and this knowledge is to be won by reason. Wisdom consists in living in accord with nature. The wise man is self-sufficient. Self-control, therefore, is of paramount importance. Serenity of mind is essential, whether in pleasure or pain."
The Stoics denied the seeking of pleasure. If pleasure came it was merely an accompaniment of virtuous conduct.
Epicurus (342-270 B. C.) founded the philosophy named after him. He was of Athenian parentage. In brief, Epicurean philosophy may be explained in the following words: "The universe consists of atoms and void; the atoms are without limit as to number, indestructible and indivisible, and are in perpetual motion in the void.... There are numerous worlds in the universe. The gods exist, it is true, in a realm of their own, but they do not concern themselves with humanity, nor do they rule the world. Consequently man should free his soul of all religious fear and superstition, and likewise of the terror of death. The soul, itself corporeal, perishes with the body, for death ends all. Sensation is alone to be trusted, for it is only through the senses that reality and the truth may be ascertained. Happiness is the chief end of life, and pleasure consists of pleasant sensations. But by this Epicurus did not mean sensuality.... 'Happiness, said Epicurus, 'was to be achieved through freedom from disturbance, by the living of a simple life, and by choosing those pleasures which bring real and permanent contentment to mind and body. Wisdom enables us to make the proper choice.'"
It will be perceived that Epicurean philosophy provided little stimulus or drive to righteous living. Few of its followers could live up to its principles with any zest. The result was that many became lazy, vicious, and made light of vice. It is no surprise therefore that Epicureanism became known as "The philosophy of the pig-sty" even though it did not mean this to its founder.
As we have already indicated Roman philosophy in the days of the Apostles was Stoic in theory but Epicurean in practice. No wonder the ancient Apostles had a tremendous problem in carrying the Gospel to their contemporaries! There were many charlatans and dabblers in philosophy who were despised by the professional Stoic and Epicurean teachers of Athens. For a time Paul could hold the attention of the latter, but when he taught them the doctrine of the resurrection they looked upon him as another of the itinerant quacks who were common to that age. He found in his age what we have found in ours, that it is difficult to teach the Gospel to professionals.
The Family in the Graeco-Roman World?As in most "advanced" civilizations families in the Graeco-Roman world were not very large. The old Hebrew views that "children are an heritage of the Lord" and "happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them," did not prevail over a large territory. The state became so concerned, in fact startled, during the reign of the first emperor Augustus, over the sharp decline in the birth-rate that it penalized persons who remained unmarried or childless and granted special concessions to parents of three or more children. The situation was similar to that which exists in certain European countries at the present time. But the Romans seem to have disregarded the law and it became a more or less dead statute.
While the right of a father to put his children to death was no longer recognized in the age we are describing, it was still legally possible to do away with children that were deformed. Seneca, as quoted by Tucker, says, "We drown our monstrosities." It should not be supposed, however, that the putting away of children was practiced to any considerable degree. We cannot believe that Romans, unlike other people, were without love and affection for their wives and children. In fact the records are numerous that show touching love and affection in many of their families. They remind us of the Biblical citation to the effect that "the iniquity of the Amorites was not yet full."
As contrasted to the position of women among the Jews, however, the women of the Graeco-Roman world were in a relatively low position. The papyri make it plain that divorce was exceedingly frequent. Professor Tucker writes, "Nothing like it has been seen until modern America." Divorce was a matter easily tended to because only a formal notice from either of the contracting parties to the other was needed to dissolve the union. The children of such people were the LESSON DEPARTMENT Religion in the Graeco-Roman World.?The old religions of Greece and Rome had almost completely lost their hold on all classes of people; in fact from the days of Alexander the Great there had been an infiltration of Oriental religions and cults into the West. The so-called mystery religions from Syria and Egypt became dominant in most parts of the civilized world. These religions gave greater satisfaction to the cravings of people for a warm?er and more sympathetic faith. They were emotional in their appeal and catered to the old love of men for secret initiation and mysterious rit?ual. J. A. Findlay points out that the most significant characteristic, common to all of them, is found in the fact that they centered upon the idea of a god or hero who died and rose again, thus ministering to the hope of immortality. None of these cults, he adds, had any connection with anything which we should call morality-only with ceremonial purifications-and indeed a great many of them were bound up with vicious sexual practices of the most demoralizing type. In addition to these popular religions there existed the imperial cult or worship of the Roman emperor. The people of the East found no especial difficulty in deifying each individual 559 Emperor. The Roman rulers were not slow in taking advantage of this peculiar Psychology. We can easily understand why the early Christians had great difficulties at times with the Romans, Their refusal to worship the Emperor might be construed as treason. In our first two lessons we have noted just a few high lights in the world of the ancient Apostles. A more detailed and extended study of that world will gteatly increase your appreciation of the work accomplished by Christ's special witnesses. Questions and Problems (Deal Only With As Many As Time Permits) 1. Compare and contrast education in the R assign this problem to some sister with special 2. Why would the Romans be much concerned about a falling birthrate? Discuss the problems in?volved with especial reference to conditions now existing in the world. What do you think the attitude of the ancient Apostles was toward the practice of having small families? 3. Compare the divorce problem in the Graeco-Roman world with that of the United States? What are the religious implications of divorce? 4. In the light of religious beliefs in the Roman Empire would the ancient Apostles be likely to have made few or many converts? ?  Visiting Teacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME NO. 2.?FEAR Jesus said, "Fear not. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light."?Matthew 11:29-30. COURAGE and self-reliance are integral qualities of strong personality. Fear is an enemy to these qualities. Children are born with but very few fears, but in their early years, parents teach them many. Who can estimate how much these fears hamper the joyousness of life. Fear complexes express themselves in many ways. E. M. Ligon, teacher and psychologist, says that fear is the most disintegrating of all the enemies of personality. Worry, anxiety, terror, inferiority complexes, pessimism, greed and the like are all varieties of this one great evil. We lay awake nights dreading possible calamities of the morrow. We do and say cowardly things prompted by it. We are selfish and thoughtless of others in times of danger. Our minds become confused and frantic when it masters us. It undermines our personalities, makes us afraid to stand up for what we believe to be right, and afraid to dedicate our lives to the purpose which challenges our best selves. In time of illness fear is one of the most destructive factors. Wars are caused because of fear. Young people do not marry because they fear the responsibility of family life. The Master taught us that we should avoid fears which stand in the way of our perfect development. Did He not say, "Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith?" and, "Fear not little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom." Jesus, however, also taught that we should have healthful fears. For example, He taught that we should fear sin and him who is able to destroy us; that we should fear ignorance and hypocrisy; that His mercy is with them who fear Him and are obedient to His commandments. Intelligent observation may protect us from a multitude of senseless fears. To overcome a senseless, destructive fear, it is necessary to bring the thing which we fear into the light, if possible discover the original cause of the fear, examine it in relation to our present state of feeling, and substitute healthful emotional and physical reaction. The individual who sees the situation clearly, who intelligently controls emotion, and substitutes action for worry overcomes many of his fears and develops desirable character and personality. Problems For Discussion 1. Give illustrations from the life of the Master where by example He taught us to fear not; by precept. 2. How may we overcome worry! What is its effect upon personality? 3. What did Jesus teach about anxiety? (See Matthew 6:27.) Explain this in the light of personality. 4. Name some healthful fears and suggest the type of protective action which they prompt. References: Luke 12:1-32. Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs as planned by your ward, LESSON DEPARTMENT 561 Literature THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 2 RoBINSON CRUSOE T may seem a bit strange to some people that Robinson Crusoe should be selected as one of the novels for discussion during this course. If any defense is necessary, perhaps it ig enough to say that most critics regard it as the first of the real English novels and a predecessor of a long line of other novels which were influenced by it. Robinson Crusoe, in a sense, is what the critics are pleased to call a picaresque, OF rogue story. This form of earlier in Spain and had found its way into England. However, inson Crusoe differs so much from such stories in form and treatment that even to mention the picaresque story may not be wise, Crusoe is portrayed truly as a young rogue in the beginning, his experiences changed his life and the author did his best to present a realistic picture of a developing man. As has previously been intimated, Defoe may have had some of his material first hand from men he met in Newgate prison where he was incarcerated. It may be well, then, to glance at the book in a friendly, critical manner and see just how well Defoe did succeed in producing 4 great story. Professor Phelps in his book The Advance of the English Novel, says: "Professor Raleigh, in his admirable little book, The English Novel, --- which combines the terse condensation of a manual with the easy and luminous style of good armchair talk calls attention to the three modes of novel composition. The author may tell his story as an invisible and omnipresent mind-reader, he may put the whole thing in the speech of the leading character, or he may depend exclusively on the epistolary correspondence. One might add that many authors employ all three in one; the story is told by the novelists, with the introduction of much conversation, varied by occasional letters." In Robinson Crusoe, Defoe has employed the first method using the one is trying to impress the truth of the tale upon the mind of the reader." Robinson Crusoe begins: "I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good family," and imthe reader ceases to remember that this is a tale of a fictiCrusoe immediately hecomes as real as George Washington, who was born in 1732, or as any other character in history who has left us his diary. To further impress the reader with the truth of the narration, the author gives details about the family which establish them, also, as real and genuine people. The verisimilitude with which Defoe invests his story is one of its chief charms and one of the reasons why the old book has sold by the thousands, in complete and abbreviated form, for more than two hundred years. Professor Wilbur Cross has paragraph about the book that is 'luminating. Says Cross: "The aim lThe Advance of the English Novel, Phelps, p- 44- 8Development of the Wilbur L. Cross, D- 28. English Novel, 562 of Defoe.. Venture." Fred Lewis Pattee, a well-known American critic, as has been said, once wrote that we are interested in a romancer and a novelist for two different reasons. We are interested in what a romancer has to tell, but in a novelist for what he has to say. Defoe combined these two interests admirably in Robinson Crusoe as can easily be pointed out. He takes his hero through many adventures, but in so doing he injects a considerable amount of philosophy which raises the story out of the mere adventure class. Passages like the following are common in the book. Youthful Robinson, after having been warned by the old seaman against going to sea, soliloquizes thus: "As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that offered to my thoughts, and it immediately occurred to me how I should be laughed at among the neighbors and should be ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even everybody else; from whence I have often observed how incongruous and irrational the common temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for they ought justly to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the returning, which can only make them esteemed wise men.". Is humanized adA less astute story teller than Defoe might easily have written his novel without that rather long series of adventures which precedes the actual story of Crusoe's being cast away upon an island. Defoe had the genius to see that a prolonged introduction would add to the truth-feeling of the story, a feeling that he must induce in order for his tale to be accepted as anything but a mere RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fantastic narrative. Each of young Crusoe's adventures adds a bit to the reader's belief in the existence of the man and to his interest in the man's final outcome. After the ship has run aground and the castaway is actually upon the "Island of Despair", Defoe does not let down a single instant. He still records with the most careful detail the little things that make for reality. It was a masterly stroke, in a sense, for the author to pause in his narration to have Crusoe strike a balance between the good and the evil. Says Robinson, "I drew up the state of my affairs in writing." He then proceeded to list the things which caused him to despair and those which gave him hope. And, like a good Christian, he finally found such kindness manifest toward him that he was reconciled to his fate. He ended his credit entry thus: "But God wonderfully sent the ship in near enough the shore, that I have got out so many necessary things as will either supply my wants or enable me to supply myself even as long as I live." One who has not read the story might wonder how a novelist could deal with one man on a lonely island not even inhabited by wild beasts and keep up the reader's interest. But because he can relate details with ease and interest, this situation presents no real problem to Defoe. He makes the finding of a bag which had once contained corn, and the planting of it, an adventure. The discovery of some green blades where he had emptied the bag became a miracle. Says Robinson, "At last it occurred to my thoughts that I had shaken the bag of chicken's meat out in that place; and the wonder began to cease; and I must confess my religious thankfulness to God's providence began to abate too, upon the LESSON DEPARTMENT discovering that all this was nothing but what was common; though I ought to have been as thankful for so strange and unforseen providence, as if it had been miraculous; for it was really the work of Providence as to me, that should order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropped from heaven; as also that I should throw it out in that particular place where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere else at that time it had been burnt up and destroyed." The importance of this grain and his care of it, Robinson indicates by saying: "But it was not till the fourth year that I would allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly.." He then tells us how important that restraint was to him on account of difficulty he had in growing his corn. This detail of the finding and the growing of the corn is but one of many incidents which Defoe surrounds with an interest and a charm that makes the reading of such commonplace matters a real adventure. As Cross so well said, Defoe"... Brings the story home to the Englishman of the middle-class, for whom he primarily writes, by telling them that their condition in life is most conducive to happiness, and by giving expression to their peculiar tenets; their trust in dreams, their recognition of Providence in the fortuitous concurrence of events, and their dogmas of conviction of sin, of repentence, and conversion." Robinson Crusoe's sickness is well treated by Defoe who uses it as a means of bringing about his roguish hero's complete change of life. The sickness results in prayer and the prayer in his coming to rely upon 563 God as the all-wise being who can be aware of a lone man on an island as well as of a man anywhere else in the world. This conversion is followed by the fortuitous finding of a Bible in one of the chests which he had brought from the ship. Defoe, with great care, follows his hero from day to day and from year to year, never seeming to tire of his work of making the story seem to be genuine and true. Robinson finds many things on the island, learns to perform many tasks, works assiduously at various jobs from attempting to make barrels to the burning of pottery, but never is the reader allowed to forget that he is alone, on a strange small island, without hope of rescue. After the castaway has built his two homes, fashioned a boat he could not launch, and has established himself as "lord of all he surveys", one day he finds the print of a man's foot in the sand. That is an important event and divides the book rather equally in two parts. It might be well to use it as the dividing place between the two lessons which are to be devoted to this remarkable story.
Questions and Problems
1. Read The Advance of the English Novel, chapter 3.
2. Though, of course, Robinson Crusoe's island is mythical, the general location of it is not. It might be well to have a map in class showing about where it was supposed to be located.
3. What is a picaresque story? This might be made an assignment for someone in the class to speak upon.
4. What handicrafts did Robinson Crusoe attempt while on his island? Did Defoe make them seem plausible? If so, in what way?
5. Name the adventures which preceded the shipwreck. Why were they introduced.
6. It would be interesting to read Swiss Family Robinson and Tarzan of the Apes in connection with Robinson Crusoe.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Social Service
LESSON 2
The Problem of Growing Older
I. Popular Opinion Is in Error Concerning the Learning Ability of Adults.
The theme of this lesson is that we need not stop learning because we are grown up. Because change is often difficult for grown ups, it is easy to fall into the error of believing that our ways, beliefs, and attitudes are so well fixed by age thirty that to attempt to change is a worthless expenditure of energy. Modern children run home from school with many new skills and facts that are sometimes amazing to their parents. Change seems to come so easily to children that, in comparison, parents imagine they cannot learn nearly so readily themselves.
However, modern science has shown that adults can learn as well as children, and with some kinds of material they can learn faster and retain better than children do. If adults do not learn, it is mainly a question of lack of motivation and habit. However, popular belief holds so strongly to the opinion that adults cannot learn new subject matter, habits, and outlooks on life that we too rarely find adults who are still engaged in improving their minds in any systematic way.
Adults can learn many things more easily than children do because they better appreciate the value of what they learn. We are able to grow educationally to the end of life, so far as mental ability is concerned. This is the true spirit of Latter-day Saint teachings: eternal learning is necessary for eternal progress. We are all so young, and should be so teachable, in terms of eternity and the great plan of salvation. "Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth"?the meek are the teachable.
II. There Is Very Little Change in Brightness Between Ages 20 and 60.
Modern science has shown that between ages 30 and 50, ability to make quick reactions does not decrease very much, but by age 70, the decrease in speed of mental reactions is quite marked. Facts of this kind suggest that people past 50 years should use continually greater caution in driving automobiles or crossing streets, for example. The differences between young and old people in ability on tests that involve judgment are not so great as in tests of simple speed reactions as just discussed. The judgment of people at age 60 is as good as that of people 20. Judgment, on the average, does not decline much until after age 70, and then only very gradually. On intelligence tests, there is very little loss of ability between ages 20 and 55, and not a sharp decline until much later.
However, in all these tests of speed, judgment, and intelligence, the differences between various individuals at the same ages are greater than the differences between people of different ages, speaking of averages. Some people are still quicker and more alert at age 80 than others at 60.
III. Ability to Learn Declines But Little Through the Years.
Professor Thorndike of Columbia University has made perhaps the most thorough study of adult learning. He and his co-workers tested a large number of adults with a variety of learning problems. Their results
LESSON DEPARTMENT
show that ability to learn, which is not always the same as intelligence, increases rapidly from about age 5 to age 20. There is almost no decline in learning ability between 20 and 30, and only a slight decline up to age 50. In the learning of things that adults commonly have learned, there was much less decline with age than in learning of material more commonly learned by children and young people. There may be a great difference in the motivation of a child who is learning to spell, for example, compared with an adult attempting the same task. An adult is often embarrassed when attempting school tasks. On the other hand, as Thorndike points out, adults may have more serious intent to learn because they have clearer purposes and better judgment as to the value of knowledge.
Several studies have shown that around age 50, people feel less sure of their ability to learn new things; they approach learning of new tasks with greater uncertainty. There is some evidence that "keeping one's hand in" in learning activities seems to be an aid to learning. In other words, practice in attacking learning tasks seems to assist in preserving the teachability of youth. Our mental "muscles" may grow "stiff" through disuse, just as do our physical muscles.
IV. Changes of Interests With Age.
Perhaps the outlooks and attitudes of people change more with age than do mental abilities. Professor E. K. Strong of Stanford University has devised an excellent test to measure the basic interests or attitudes of people at different ages. His test consists of 420 items such as: "Do you like socialists?" "Do you dislike regular hours of work?" "Do you prefer to work in one place to changing places?"
Professor Strong concludes that, "Items suggesting physical skill and daring, as 'walking along the edge of a precipice' or 'being an aviator', show the greatest changes of all. Older men do not like such activities as do young men." (Strong, E. K., Change of Interests With Age, p. 21.)
The next greatest change is in items suggesting change or interference with established habits and customs. In Thorndike's words, "Adults are proverbially less ready to adopt new ways, even to try new ways, than adolescents."
Older men do not show such strong interest in amusements as do young men and they have a stronger preference for amusements of a solitary kind rather than those involving others. The interests of older men are also more intellectual.
One of the most marked changes in likes and dislikes is a stronger preference in older men for people with desirable traits and stronger dislikes for people with undesirable traits. One of the best signs of maturity of interests found by Strong is the increase of interest in the welfare of others, interest in current affairs, and finally more interest in religious or spiritual concerns.
As in the case of age differences in mental ability, there is more difference on the average between the interests of two people than the average differences found from age to age. In other words, age alone does not mature everyone's interests, and not everyone as he gets older resists new ideas and changes in his established attitudes.
V. Highest Type of Latter-day Saints Are Eternally Learning.
The teachings of Joseph Smith one hundred years ago are closely in accord with the findings of modern science on learning possibilities of adults. The Prophet was of a studious turn of mind, plastic and ready to adjust to new knowledge and circumstances. Through inspiration, he made the following statement: "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." (D. & C. 130:18,19.)