Gwineth Gwin
By Elizabeth Cannon Porter
LILY was very tired after the baby was born, but she was very grateful for the little hospital and the good care she had received there. It all seemed like a miracle, that had been wrought by women gleaning wheat.
"I do not think that we had better buy the seed wheat," her husband had said the preceding fall when he found out there was to be a child. "We'll have to have you taken care of and we will need the money. Can't have you dying like Sarah Lyon, without medical attention," he added. The woman and her twin infants had all died on a lone ranch. There were other stories of long distances, bad roads, inclement weather, and doctors who could not reach the patients in time.
"Get the winter wheat anyway, Rob, I couldn't bear to have it not planted now. We will manage somehow. Besides, we've got to have the grain to feed the hungry animals." She had glanced out at the great expanse of rich brown loam that had lain fallow all summer. Her young husband had plowed it in the spring and the ground was hungry for the wheat.
ROB had gone to market with his precious bags of alfalfa seed, the first crop of importance from their desert ranch. A few days later he had returned, not only with his wagon loaded with seed wheat, but he brought her a bolt of white outing flannel and best of all, heartening news. "You know, the price of wheat during the war went sky high, five dollars a hundred. Well, everybody sold out because of the good prices. That is, all except the Relief Society. The government bought their wheat, thousands of bushels, the wheat that the good sisters had stored for years 'against time of need.' Some think that it was purchased for our soldiers in France, but it has been whispered that it was needed for seed to replant the earth. Well, anyway, the Relief Society is using the interest on the money for maternity purposes?to buy medicines and supplies. In Verde they have started a little hospital. Rich Mrs. Crane gave them the use of her brick house, the one that she moved out of when she went modernistic. Dr. Bates, bless his soul, contributes his services. There is a cook and a head nurse, and several young girls taking training. The people have contributed various things to furnish it and the cellar is full of bottled fruit and vegetables. I have made arrangements for you to go there, Lily. I am going to haul them a load of potatoes. Whew, you don't know how it relieves my mind."
"Oh, Rob, how wonderful," exclaimed Lily.
SO he harrowed in the grain, and the winter came and covered it with a snow-white blanket. In the evening the light from the window of the little farmhouse shone clearly over the landscape. Within was industry and happiness. Lily sewed many small garments and Rob repaired his harness?drove copper rivets in it in the warmth of the kitchen. When the snow melted the wheat field emerged a great green carpet under the spring sun. Later in the season Rob had driven Lily to Verde and placed her in the little hospital.
"Well, you ought to work, I'll say you've earned it," exclaimed Rob after a while when they told him that they were both alive.
"Maybe I thought what I brought you." He suggested into the cream, healthy baby on Lily's breast. "Well, look at what I brought you." She reached for a sheaf of golden wheat.
"Oh Rob, how lovely," said Lily. "Yes, and Clear's your pretty baby," he said, looking at the plump little face.
"Do you think we should name her Gwineth?" suggested Lily.
"That's a pretty name?like Gwineth?"
"How about Gwin?that's shorter."
"Oh, let me see if I can say that. Gwin." She cuddled the baby to her bosom. "That's the most beautiful bouquet in the world."