A PRAYER FROM THE PLAINS
By Patricia Bryson
Long shadows creep across the rolling plains,
Far distant hills reach up to hide the sun;
Now fades the glow of crimson from the sky;
The night falls fast when prairie days are done.
There is no sound to break the silence here.
Hushed now the wind which through the day has blown,
As though it, too, flees this forsaken place.
I fear the night! Dear God, I'm so alone!
Once strong brown hands were here to share these tasks,
To tend the flocks, to plow, to reap and sow.
I knew no loneliness when he was near.
Why did you take him, God? I loved him so.
And he loved me, I know, and loved these fields;
The rich brown earth, and every vine and tree
He planted here. And best of all he loved
This small white house of dreams he built for me.
I could not leave the home built by those hands
So strong?and tender too; for every part
Is filled with dreams and blessed with joys we knew;
And in its cornerstone I've placed my heart.
The days bring endless chores; I do not mind.
But then night falls, and far as eye can see,
There is no house, save this; no one to call
Should I need help. There's none to comfort me.
I want no lofty buildings, for my soul
Would cry for sun and air and windswept lea.
I must remain, for all I love is here,
And strength and courage, God, I ask of Thee.
I do not long for busy, crowded streets.
I seek no hurrying throngs, no laughter gay.
To see one lighted window is my wish;
One friendly sign to cheer my lonely way.
I lift my eyes toward Thy throne, and see!
The dark, deep velvet curtain of the night
Is drawn aside. I have my heart's desire.
A star is shining there?God's candle light.
And now a million lamp-lit windows gleam;
Each one repeats the message heaven sent.
No more am I afraid, no more alone.
I know my God is near, and I'm content.
One Month to Go?
Before registration days offer an opportunity to those who wish to prepare themselves for greater service.
1600 COURSES IN 35 DEPARTMENTS
Sound Training Leading to Success in More Than a Hundred Vocations.
Registration Dates?September 23, 24, 25, 1938
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY
For a catalogue address
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY
PROVO "The Friendly School" UTAH
The World's Finest stokers. Now, more than ever before, the cheapest quality stoker available. Leading dealers everywhere handle Recent price reductions made possible by volume production, and carload distribution, make