LESSON DEPARTMENT
Literature for Missions
Typical Women of the Church
LESSON 2
JEANNETTE DANSIE CRANE
A Successful Mother, Reared in England
By Lily Crane Haycock
I SUPPOSE there are nearly as many definitions for success as there are people, but to my mind mother has achieved the greatest success that can come to mortal woman. Mother has reared to maturity nine boys and girls, all of whom are observers of the Word of Wisdom and the law of Tithing; they all try to keep the Sabbath day holy; every one has been through the Temple; four of her five sons have filled missions, and all are actively engaged in the Church at the present time, except her oldest son, who passed away during the influenza epidemic in 1918. What more could a Latter-day Saint mother wish for, save it be her beloved companion to share her joy and satisfaction, he having passed away thirty-six years ago.
In the little village of Barking in Essex, England, my mother, Jeannette Dansie Crane, was born on October 11, 1858. She is not a convert, her parents having joined the Church before her birth. Nevertheless she endured the trials and persecutions of the Saints in those early days. Her father, James Dansie, was a gentleman's gardener and was able to provide a very comfortable living for his family until the fact that he was a "Mormon" was learned, when he would be dismissed. Then he would be compelled to move to another district to obtain work. Each time they moved my mother would have to quit her school and begin again in a new one. Finally her mother, who was a very refined and cultured lady, decided to take her out of school entirely and teach her herself. So mother never went to school after she was nine years old. Unschooled, yes, but not uneducated. Her mother heard her lessons regularly every day for the next several years. She was also required to read through once each year the Bible, the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants. These books were divided in such a way as to take just one year to complete them, by reading a certain number of chapters each day. Nor could she just skip over them and say she had read them; she must read them aloud to her mother. No doubt this task was irksome many times but she has since thanked her mother for the knowledge she has of these books.
Like all the Saints in foreign countries, they longed to come to Utah, so saved and worked to that end until they were able to come. They reached Salt Lake City in July, 1874, and went directly to her Uncle Robert Dansie's home in Herriman, about twenty-five miles southwest of Salt Lake City. There she has lived ever since.
That first winter they spent in a little log cabin with an earth roof and every time it rained outside it poured through the ceiling. What a difference from the comfortable homes they had lived in in England! But she and her mother made the best of it. Her father obtained a farm on shares as soon as possible and they moved onto that farm. After her mother passed away she married young Henry Crane. He bought a home and a farm and they settled down. She has lived in that same house ever since. There all her children were born; there two passed away, one in infancy and one in manhood; and there she parted with her beloved husband.
When the ninth baby was three days old my father received a letter from "Box B," calling him on a mission to Great Britain. They could not see where the money was to come from, but never thinking of refusing, Father sent word he would be ready on the specified date. After that it seemed like everyone he met wanted to give him money, so when the day arrived for his departure he had ample funds to take him to his field of labor, but none to go on with. Mother worked and kept him there for two years, sending him a dollar or two at a time, never more than five, and kept her family besides. Father returned but was only home a year when he was stricken with pneumonia and died. This time he left Mother with her tenth child only ten weeks old, no insurance, and she even had to borrow money to pay for his burial. I often wonder how she had the courage to go on. What would have become of us if, after that blow, she had given up and said, "What's the use?" But she didn't give up.
Mother has been a teacher all her life, working in every organization of the Church. She taught in Sunday School, the Adult class in Mutual, the Theology class and was visiting teacher in Relief Society, was principal of Religion Class, counselor in the Primary Association and gave the lessons in Genealogy and in the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers. It made no difference which organization I attended, my own mother was
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
my teacher. I can truthfully say, "All that I am I owe to my wonderful mother." I'm positive all my brothers and sisters can say the same. Mother's many students have repeatedly told how she has helped them to do right.
When mother was seventy-five years old we gave her a party, inviting all who had ever been in her classes. This included practically everyone in the ward as well as many scattered throughout this intermountain region. The house was full of friends from 10 a. m. until 10 p. m., many coming long distances. Every nook of the house was filled with flowers, while the table was laden with presents and cards with beautiful sentiments for their teacher. In addition there were letters from several states containing sentiments such as, "You have been a light in my life. Your teaching and counsel have helped me try to live a life that you would not be ashamed of." From another Relief Society worker: "You are very dear to me and of all the teachers I have ever had, you are the one I think of most. I hope I may always conduct my life in a way that will be worthy of your friendship." From a Bishop: "At this time let me thank you and express my appreciation for the part you have played in helping me to form ideals that will be of lasting benefit to me." From a Bishop's counselor: "Accept my appreciation for service rendered in building my milestones in early life as my Sunday School teacher." There were many more but these are sufficient to show how boys and girls loved her as a teacher.
Mother has also been a worker. When our father was called on his mission he was a school trustee, postmaster, and kept a small store. Mother took over all his positions and carried on in his stead. After his
LESSON DEPARTMENT
death she continued to do public work along with her home and church duties. She was clerk of the school board for many years. But as time marched forward, school districts were consolidated, leaving no place for local trustees; rural delivery was instituted, doing away with the small post office; and finally the men of the town started a larger and more up-to-date store. So her chances of making a comfortable living were one by one taken away from her. Still she didn't give up, but turned to something else. So she took boarders, picked fruit and even did laundry work, but never did she accept charity. We were not blessed with many luxuries, but always had plenty to eat and were dressed neatly so we were not ashamed to go out with our friends. She has always paid an honest tithing, contributed to the Relief Society and paid fast offering, but you couldn't insult her more than to offer her anything that even resembled charity. Even today if the Bishop gives her a dollar for Christmas or Old Folks' day she will turn around and give it back for tithing. She still earns her own living by crocheting and making quilts. She has never gone in debt or had a mortgage on either her home or farm.
Mother has always been a great reader. She developed a habit of reading aloud that was one of the greatest means of keeping her family together and on the right path. Nor did she always read religious books. We liked to hear biographies and interesting stories, and our young friends came and listened with us. Mother was considered the best reader in the town and no program was complete without one of her choice readings.
Mother was always jolly and cheerful so young people enjoyed her company and many times she was the only married person invited to their parties. She often entertained the crowd by step-dancing vying with the fiddler to see who could keep going the longer. She will never be old in spirit but sometimes now her ambition outdoes her strength.
Mother's greatest virtue is her loyalty to the Church and its leaders. She has always taught us by example to try to live up to the teachings of the Church, not only as contained in the scriptures but as given by our leaders of today. When they admonish or instruct it is law and gospel with her. Never will she listen to a word of criticism of any one of them. She is a strict observer of the Sabbath day and has taught us all to try our best to keep it holy. No work was ever done in our home on Sunday except prepare the meals, and they were prepared as much as possible the day before. Never was work on the farm so important that it couldn't wait over Sunday. I think I am safe in saying not one of her children has ever attended a picture show or other place of amusement on Sunday. They all own their own homes, have a comfortable living, are respected in the community and every one is active in the Church.
We have often been asked why we were so obedient to our mother. I can't tell exactly but I know that it has never entered my head to disobey her. It isn't because we were afraid of her; I think it is because she trusted us. She always showed us the right path and then expected us to follow it, and we just could not let her down.
Mother has twenty-eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren and her influence goes on to them. Everyone of them loves and respects her and wouldn't think of doing anything to hurt Grandma's feelings. All her children have held responsible positions in the Church, such as: assistant Superintendent of the Sunday School, chairman of the Genealogical Committee, president of the Relief Society, Stake Board Member, and nearly every one has at one time been president of a Mutual Improvement Association. Her only son who hasn't filled a mission has been ward clerk for almost twenty years, fulfilling a mission at home.
A sad chapter in mother's life came at the close of the World War. We were all rejoicing over the safe return of one of our brothers from the army when the influenza struck our home. All the household, except one sister, were ill at once. While mother was critically ill, our older brother passed away. He had never married, so once again the head of the house was taken away. Mother had a long hard fight but she finally recovered and went back to her many duties.
Mother always said she wanted to live to see all her children married in the temple and her sons fulfill missions. With this accomplished she now enjoys herself. Her greatest pastime is reading. She enjoys movies and automobiles and her one ambition now is to take a ride in an airplane.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Topics to be considered:
1. State why you think Jeannette Dansie was born "of goodly parents."
2. What qualities does it appear that she inherited from her parents?
3. Does Jeannette's life demonstrate that "you cannot keep a good man down"? Explain your answer.
4. What circumstances in her life demonstrate the truth of these lines: "Fear on guilt attends, and deeds of darkness; the virtuous breast ne'er knows it."
5. What evidence is there that Jeannette D. Crane is a genuine Latter-day Saint?
6. Why do you think she was a very successful mother?
7. Where and when did she learn the art of how to be an excellent mother?
8. What must a woman do if she is a good mother?
9. Thomas Hughes wrote: "Blessed are they who have the gift of making friends for it is one of God's best gifts." How did Jeannette D. Crane make friends?
10. Sidney Smith wrote, "To love and be loved is the greatest happiness of existence." What do you think made Sister Crane happy?
11. She has always lived in humble circumstances. Nevertheless, there are many evidences that she is a noble woman. Point out some of these evidences.
"Youth is a dangerous age, as far as tobacco is concerned. If one can reach the age of twenty-five without smoking, the tobacco trust will have difficulty in getting him. We shall have better health, more happiness, longer life and more comforts when we cease wasting our money for tobacco."?Alexander Anderson, President Youth Education Association.