~ NOTES FROM THE FIELD This enterprising ward is young in point of. Age, having been divided two years ago, but it has now more than reached the original membership through recruiting other sisters. Not only in the literary work but in the visiting teaching, in the Magazine, and in all other activities of Relief Society, the same spirit of enthusiasm prevails. Bat en by the Relief Society Stake Board to all the wards of the stake on the 17th of March. A program of appropriate and beautiful pageantry, music, and readings was given. A tribute to the oldest active Relief Society worker in each ward was composed and read by the stake Literary leader. Refreshments were served from an attractive table, decBOUND MAGAZINES, WELLSVILLE WARD Hyrum Stake HE above picture is taken of twenty-one volumes of the Relief Society Magazine. These books were collected and bound by the officers and members under the direction of the President of the Wellsville Ward and presented to the organization. These form a most valuable collection, and are an indication of what the ingenuity and thrift of the sisters of the organization can accomplish. Tintic Stake VERY interesting report of the year's activities in Relief Society comes from the Tintic Stake. A delightful entertainment was givorated in blue and gold, centered with a large three-tier birthday cake. Blue and gold favors were an attractive feature of the occasion. More than 135 guests participated. During the year the annual visits of the Relief Society presidency and stake board were held. The representatives met with the officers and teachers in order to have an intimate discussion of problems and to give special attention to the ward workers in their duties. A poem contest was sponsored by the stake. Every ward responded and some very excellent poems were submitted. Awards were made to those composing the best. A social and financial achievement of the stake was the Harvest Festi- 552 val. A very clever program was arranged and each ward participated. A Mis-Fit Dance with novelty numbers featuring the Spot Dance, Virginia Reel, and other old-time favorites followed. Each ward had refreshments to sell and shared in the profits of the entertainment. One ward in the stake has the enviable record of achieving 100% visiting teaching. In the beginning RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE been on the Tintic stake board for fifteen years. Her labors as a social service worker had made her beloved by all who knew her. She also served as stake librarian. Her devotion to truth, her tenacity in holding to Latter-day Saint ideals, her love and wisdom have been and will continue to be an inspiration to us who were privileged to be associated with her." ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION, MANTI CENTER WARD of the year the visiting teachers of the ward were divided into two groups headed by captains. The side having the most successful teaching was to be entertained by the losers. In December each side had visited 100 per cent, so the ward officers gave a party honoring both. The following beautiful tribute ls paid to Sister Margaret Brohm by the secretary: "The joy of achievement and the happiness which comes from efforts crowned with success was tempered by the passing of a beloved Board member, Sister Margaret Brohm. Sister Brohm had South Sanpete Stake FpROM the Manti Center Ward of the South Sanpete Stake comes the above picture. It represents the presidency and social committee having in charge the celebration of the 96th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. The occasion was made memorable by the very fine preparation made and the enthusiasm with which the accomplishments of Relief Society were presented. A program appropriate to the occasion was given. This was followed by a delightful luncheon served to more than 112 guests.