Happenings." "If we are going to found the prosperity of the country—its commercial prosperity, its industrial prosperity—upon an impregnable basis we must cleanse the foundations of the rot of alcohol." —David Lloyd George. Carlsbad Caverns By Ivy Williams Stone NE summer evening, thirtyO five years ago, a young cowboy reined in his pony on the semi-desert of southeastern New Mexico. All around him stretched wastes of cacti, mesquite and chaparral, scattered over the limestone bluffs and ledges. In the silence of the sunset the boy kept his eyes riveted upon a strange phenomenon. Farther over the valley a dark column was moving upward from a cliff. It looked more like smoke than any other thing he could liken it to. It moved, fluttered, radiated in the evening breeze. Every summer evening, this unnamed column ascended into the sky for three hours. Old timers said that in the early morning it came back out of the sky and descended into the ground again. Jim White's imagination was fired; his love of adventure was awakened. He determined to learn what that weird spectacle was. Thus, from the decision and courage of a cowboy, Carlsbad Caverns, the "eighth wonder of the world", was discovered. Developing the caves proved to be a difficult task. After several nights and mornings of vigil, Jim White learned for a certainty that the thin column was composed of bats. Going out to hunt and forage throughout the night, returning to the cave at dawn, to hang by their claws from the roofs as they slept. Mother bats, young bats, old bats, big bats, little bats. Millions of bats! This statement is not figurative—it is literal. For three hours every summer evening the bats stream forth from the cave. They consume over eleven tons of insects each night. Before the caves were government controlled, guano was taken from them in large quantities and sold commercially. The bats hibernate in the caves through the winter months, or fly south. Squeamish or over-sensitive visitors need have no fear of contacting them, however, for that portion of the caves occupied by the bats has never been exploited, and is still intact. Not a single bat was in evidence the day of our visit. S a whole, the world is slow to accept as truth anything which seems improbable. When a miner of California returned from a_ bear hunt with tales of enormous trees, his companions scouted his story. When Jim Bridger recounted stories of steaming caves and boiling pits, people did not at once accept the existence of Yellowstone Park. When Mr. Limbert wrote an illustrated account of the Craters of the Moon in Idaho, he had difficulty in finding an editor who believed his tale. And so it was with Jim White and his Carlsbad Caverns. With the aid of a Mexican boy, Mr. White descended into that unchartered cave, marking his trail with string and lamp black. He took hazards and risks of which the casual visitor has no knowledge. Finally, the National Geographic Society became interested. Mr. White's ropes gave place to a bucket and windlass. When it became a National Monument the windlass was replaced by a flight of hundreds of stairs. Thirty years after its discovery, it was established as a regular National Park, now provided with beautifully graded and banked approaches, seven miles of paths, with the second largest elevator in the United States at the dis- 522 posal of those who find the return climb too strenuous. It costs one dollar fifty cents for each adult who visits the cave, but all children under sixteen years are admitted free. Last spring the governor of New Mexico went through the cave with twenty-eight hundred children, and only one admittance fee was paid. The popularity of this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are caves at a nine hundred foot level, and still others at a depth of twelve hundred feet. The full extent and possibilities of the caves are uncalculated. For the present, visitors are not permitted lower than the first level, but here there are vast reaches and depths. Vaulted ceilings rise over three hundred feet. The "Big Room" measures four CARLSBAD CAVERNS new playground is attested by the fact that nine hundred thousand people have visited it. The caves are skillfully lighted with hidden electric lamps, cunningly placed to bring out the full beauty of each distinctive point. Draperies of thin onyx delight the eye with myriads of shades, when illuminated from behind. The caverns have been developed to a depth of seven hundred fifty feet, but it is known there thousand feet in length, six hundred in width, and the visitor cranes his neck to glimpse the ceiling three hundred fifty feet above! Weird shapes and formations are on every side: the King's Throne and the Queen's Room; the "Rock of Ages," with its estimated age of fifty million years, is just a baby brother to the Giant Dome, fully sixty million years old. Stalagmites often meet stalactites and join in fantastic for- CARLSBAD mations. Through the uplifting and folding movements of prehistoric ages, through the slow processes of erosion on limestone, salt and gypsum the caves have been slowly formed. Spirals and twisted helicites, fantastic shapes like totem poles, hippopotami, bears, statues, lily pools, stage draperies and curtains, all can be seen by the visitor. HE caves are open every day of the year. Each guest signs an entrance slip bearing his name and place of residence. As the trip starts, the guests are exhorted to refrain from mutilations of any sort, to forbear writing upon the formations. It is a code of honor, and the nine hundred thousand who have already visited there, have left the caves as they found them, that they may be passed on in their virginal beauty to the thousands yet to come. About half way down the paths, a man in civilian clothes asked if we wished to be served with luncheon. It being only eleven o'clock, many people felt no urge of hunger. But by the time that long file reached the dining room, the enticing odors of food were irresistible. For the nominal sum of sixty cents, each guest was served with two sandwiches, potato chips, pickles, cake, fruit and hot drinks, served individually, cafeteria style, in waxed paper. On the day of my visit, there were CAVERNS 523 five hundred sixty-one people in the party. Rangers explained any questions we desired to ask. On the return trip, we gathered together under the shadow of "Rock of Ages" to rest, using the path walls as seats. The park superintendent then gave a lecture on the caves, comparing their age to that of the sequoia trees of California, and the pyramids of Egypt and Mexico. The caves are older than any other known object upon or within our earth. As a fitting climax, the superintendent asked for a half minute of silence and complete darkness, with no striking of matches or clicking of flashlights. For thirty seconds that group of over five hundred people sat in absolute darkness, making no sound. Then, far off down the vista we had just traveled a faint light glowed and distant voices sang "Rock of Ages." Gradually the light increased until the Giant Dome stood forth fully illuminated, supreme in all its dignity, majesty and beauty. God and Heaven seemed so very close. I almost resented the end of the song and the return of the lights. The eyes of many people around me were glistening, and they were unashamed of the emotion. The trip took seven hours. Twenty-one states were represented among the visitors. Five hundred sixty people from twenty states, and the writer of this article the only one from Utah! Ce > "A mind and spirit that can recognize and welcome the highest when it comes is one of the supreme gifts of man. It is indeed true that, next to genius, what is most like it is the power to know and admire it. Next to being creatively great one's self is the capacity to recognize greatness when one sees it, and make room."—Harry Emerson Fosdick. Women We Should Know RosE Homer WiptsoE—Doctor or PHILOSOPHY (University of Utah—Home Economics Department Head) By Ramona W. Cannon OSE HOMER of Oxford, R Idaho, was graduated from the Utah Agricultural College in 1900. That year she began teaching and in 1902 established the department of Home Economics in the B. Y. College in Logan, where she remained for four years. She then married Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, head of the department of English in the L. D. S. High School. In the beautiful, simple temple ceremony the couple exchanged vows of affection and fidelity for time and for all eternity, little realizing how soon time would end, eternity begin for one of them. While it endured, theirs was an exceptionally happy marriage. Both were lovers of home, children, arid religion, and were fond of books, flowers, and especially of each other. They built a charming house on Wall Street with book shelves reaching to the ceiling. These were soon filled with volumes indicating the varied tastes and interests of the pair of bibliophiles. After Brother Widtsoe's death, his wife, remembering how he had always liked to have his books in use, gave his professional library of 1500 volumes to the University of Utah with the request that books be added each year. Sixty dollars worth of books have been added annually until now the Osborne Widtsoe library is a very choice acquisition of the State Institution. Despite this gift, the shelves that reach the ceiling on Wall Street are still filled with volumes collected, read and loved by the married pair. They shed throughout the house a lingering essence of the personality of Brother Widtsoe, who was—yes, is—an integral part of this home. Before many years, two small daughters, Karen and Rosetta added to the joy of their parents. _In 1910 Mrs. Widtsoe became matron of girls and lecturer at the L. D. S. High School. For two years her constructive, wholesome influence was felt by those with whom she worked. As an illustration of her good sense, she urged the girls not to wear their soiled and worn-out party dresses to school. Osborne Widtsoe became principal of the L. D. S. High School, and later head of the English department at the University of Utah. His wife for some years remained at home devoting her capable attention to their little girls. N 1917 when America was conserving such foods as wheat, sugar and butter to send to the boys "over there', Mrs. Widtsoe was asked to become City Food Administrator. She was the only woman in the United States to hold that position. Permits from her office had to be issued for all'sugar purchased in Salt Lake. As part of her work Mrs. Widtsoe gave lectures on nutrition, especially on the use of substitutes for white flour, on family income, budgeting, and other home problems. She demonstrated her lectures on cooking, and organized centers where other women demonstrated to the public. She worked in cooperation with the Civic Center Board, who, when Mrs. Widtsoe's duties were completed, wrote individually, all WOMEN WE SHOULD KNOW twenty of them, to President Peterson of the Agricultural College, asking that she be retained in her work as an Extension Division instructor of that institution. Consent was gladly given. Mrs. Widtsoe called a meeting of eightynine volunteer workers, unselfish, well-equipped women, thoroughly prepared for the task in hand. At her request the Mayor of Salt Lake Sl stores, sold in this project for the cost of the material, twenty cents. The government at Washington circulated the report of this project to welfare workers in many other states. N 1920 came Brother Widtsoe's illness and death. The shock and grief of this experience did serious damage to Sister Widtsoe's nervous ROSE HOMER WIDTSOE advanced money to buy a quantity of mill-ends for underwear. The women cut out and usually sewed the garments, in many cases trimming them with crocheted lace. The Salt Lake Knitting Store cooperated with the women by sewing up the union suits on a power machine. The Relief Societies and Church Aid Committees distributed purchase tickets for these articles to those in need, for the depression was on, and the "flu" epidemic, and there were many in distress. A Rubens shirt for babies costing from $1.25 to $1.50 in the system and general health. She struggled heroically to overcome the weakness, but without much success. Her one great consolation at this time was the knowledge of the truth of the everlasting covenant between them, the feeling that her mate was still interested in her welfare, that he loved and waited for her. That summer the New York Charity Organization in cooperation with Teachers College, Columbia, gave a course in advanced welfare work to forty-six outstanding women in the United States. Rose Widtsoe's 526 friends had suggested her name as a candidate, without her knowledge, and she was invited to attend. Fighting ill health, she did the best she could, and found the work stimulating and helpful. Returning, she was asked to organize a class of ninety widows, for whom the county was caring, whose husbands had died in the "flu" epidemic. This was a supremely difficult task for her with her own bereavement so fresh. She taught them budgeting. The women accounted for the expenditure of each bi-weekly check, before the next was available. Sister Widtsoe checked these reports and found that they were not buying milk and fresh vegetables in sufficient quantities. Laboring, she converted them to the need of these foods. Mrs. Widtsoe was also keeping records of the budgets of 205 families who received assistance. These were in three distinct income groups. Upon these studies she later based her thesis for her M. A. Degree. © [X spite of Mrs. Widtsoe's efforts her health did not improve, and she felt obligated to resign her position. Despair was her portion. One day President Thomas of the University of Utah asked her why she did not go away to study. " "Do you suppose I could be sure of a position when I returned?' she asked wearily. "One can never be sure," he replied. "I know of nothing definite, but it has been my observation that the person who is prepared is the one who gets the position." Mrs. Widtsoe was still very weak. She could not sleep. She could not remember. She could not concentrate. Her house had been in the clear, but unfortunately two weeks before her husband's death, they had been obliged to mortgage it for three thousand dollars. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Nevertheless this widow with two daughters to support borrowed two thousand dollars on a block of stock she possessed, and went to Berkeley, taking her daughters with her. After a most difficult year she received her M. A. Degree in 1922, in Economics. She felt the need of a closer relation between this subject and home economics, since women spend eighty-five per cent of the money which goes over the counter. She did some pioneering along this line. When her professor felt that the proper research work could not be done for her proposed thesis on "Standards of Living in America," she explained the work she had done with the different groups in Utah, and was given an opportunity to help pioneer a "standard of living" experiment in Berkeley. Upon her combined research work in both states, she based her valuable thesis. Mrs. Widtsoe now looked forward to coming home and teaching. But Dr. Thomas asked her if she could not remain another year. She was appalled at the advice. She did not know how to obtain funds. Her spirit was crying out for help. Consumed with perplexity she sat alone in her room one morning and said aloud in desperation, "What shall I do?" Suddenly her being was electrified. She distinctly felt the spirit of her husband enter the room, approach her, remain beside her. In some way it imparted to her that she must remain. Then she was conscious that it left the room. Sister Widtsoe felt uplifted and happy. She spoke to the Dean about the annual Thompson scholarship of six hundred dollars for a Utah student. To her surprise, she received this grant. Her health was better, and she did a heavy year's work toward her Ph. D. Degree. In the spring she was offered the position of head of the department of Home WOMEN WE SHOULD KNOW Economics in the Brigham Young University, in the Agricultural College at Logan, and in the University of Utah, which position had only just become vacant. Her work in the University of Utah has been outstanding. No college credit used to be given for any work in the University in domestic science. This course counted only toward a Normal certificate. Now one may take an M. A. Degree in home economics. Courses are now given in child development, and a W. P. A. Nursery school functions in connection with the department. In the nutrition department chemical analysis of foods is made, and also each student experiments with animals. When girls see white rats losing their hair and becoming lifeless and ugly when robbed of certain vitamins and see them brighten up when the vitamins are added, they will never forget the picture, and surely they will not be careless about the feeding of their children in the future, says Mrs. Widtsoe, who is always a very popular teacher. Registered in her department this summer are more than 800 students. The quarterly departmental registration has increased from 250 to 1307 during her regime. [XN 1931 Mrs. Widtsoe received her Ph. D. Degree from Berkeley. Her thesis was "The Economic Justification for Pure Food Laws, Federal, State, and Municipal." She did a great deal of work in the Boalt Law School, to get this material. Also, to see the practical application of these laws, she climbed rope ladders into incoming steamships, to examine foods carried; she went to railCL 527 road terminals, wholesale houses, and abattoirs, working for many months with the food inspector. In 1932, Mrs. Widtsoe was appointed Home Economics Consultant for the W. P. A. After three years of carrying her heavy double burden, she was obliged to resign, because it was too much for her. She feels, however, that the W. P. A. Work she did was the most useful of her life. She organized 482 classes in nutrition, every county in the state being represented. She wrote and sent out lessons. She organized thirty-three food conservation centers where food raised at home or on government projects could be canned with machinery and cans furnished by the government. In twenty-seven counties school lunches were provided, the first year to children on relief, the second to all children, and as this became too great a burden, to any child at a cost of two or three cents for a hot dish to supplement the dry bread, usually brought from home. Thirty thousand children who were literally starving were thus rescued. Two years of Mrs. Widtsoe's W. P. A. Work was done without any financial compensation. With all her fine intelligence, Dr. Widtsoe has been first and foremost an excellent wife and mother. No honors she has received gives her the joy she finds in the memory of her beloved husband, and in the liying presence of her two daughters with their husbands and her three lovely grandchildren. Her ambitions were all directed to helping her daughters, who have received every possible advantage, and have been worthy of any sacrifices which Mrs. Widtsoe has joyfully made for them. == She Makes an Art of Friendship By E. C. C. F Shirley's friends were to be asked why they love her, one might say, "Because she looks like a madonna—her big dark eyes so full of mystery, and wisdom, and understanding;" another, "Because she converses so interestingly of new books and magazines that I, though I am really no busier than she, never find time to read;" a third, "Because of her keen sense of humor and her witty way of saying commonplace things." Someone else would be sure to mention her hospitality, her ability to make a festive occasion of a glass of lemonade and a cheese sandwich, or her sympathy which makes one wish to share with her the minutest disappointment or happiness. And so on and on they would go through all the characteristics that make up the ideal friend. I used to wonder at her great number and variety of friends. The rest of our little group have a normal number of congenial companions who are about the same age, and have had somewhat similar experiences, and have similar tastes. But her circle is so much wider, so much more varied. Little boys come to show her their pigeons and kites; little girls bring their. Doll families and play on her lawn; high school students come for her advice on lessons and jobs, and budding loves; young married couples bring their family troubles to her and love to have her with them at their parties; Jone old men and women adore her and regard a visit from her as a memorable occasion. At last I discovered her secret. She makes an art of friendship. To her it is not an ordinary plant to be allowed to grow if it will without any care. It is a precious one to be guarded and nourished until it brings forth its beautiful flowers. We all have sudden impulses to do nice little things for those about us: tell Edith how well she sang last night, John how handsome he looks in his new overcoat; or to write a letter to Mrs. Lane whose daughter was killed in an accident, or spend an hour reading to blind Uncle Jerry. But with most of us these impulses are still-born. Not so with Shirley. One day her impulse matures into a little afternoon social for a group of her tired fellow-teachers where she reads a favorite poem or a humorous essay as her guests relax on her couch. Another day, she takes an old couple for a ride or sends a new game toa sick child. Every day it is something which adds a bit of interest, or fun, or beauty to the world. She is always alert, looking for opportunities to add a little comfort or happiness to someone else's life, and what she gives adds radi- 'ance to her own. She knows the psychology of surprises. She serves old dishes in new ways; she puts gay dresses on her letters and little notes, and finds new words for everyday thoughts and events. When her daughter comes home to visit, she is sure to find a new handkerchief or pin or bottle of perfume in her dresser drawer; when she returns to her work, she is sure to carry back, tucked away some place in her traveling bag, something to make her laugh, or think, or feel —a cartoon or joke, or a few lines of lovely poetry. Shirley loves poetry and has memorized hundreds of choice lines. SHE MAKES AN ART OF FRIENDSHIP These bits of rare description, gems of philosophy, snatches of lyric rhythm, together with her sense of humor and her own original picturesque speech make her a captivating conversationalist. She always has a quotation to make a sunset, a moonrise, a bon-fire more significant; an apt figure of speech or an amusing reminiscence to make an odd person or an unusual situation more interesting. Most of us take for granted the little group of friends our circumstances and tastes naturally bring to us. Shirley is constantly widening her friendship circle. Though her own mother is dead, on every Mother's Day she does something nice for someone else's mother—sends a potted plant, some bulbs, a note of greeting and appreciation for the courage, or patience, or loyalty of this '"somebody-else's mother." On the birthday of a childhood pal, who died many years ago, she always writes to the girl's mother. When a great sorrow or joy comes to an acquaintance, she drops in or writes her sympathy or congratulations. Recently twenty young persons who had been in her first grade 529 class twelve years ago received a telegram on the night of their graduation that added to the pride of that occasion. One day she read of a fire which destroyed a farmer's home in the night while the family was away. Immediately she bundled blankets, clothing, and food into her car and drove out to the stricken family. She has suffered troubles and misfortunes that would crush most people. She has faced many of life's cruelest sorrows. But her spirit is indominatable. She has found the fountain of "perpetual commonsense and looking on the best side of things." She knows that a time will come when she cannot get about to do many of the kindly acts that bring her such pleasure now. But she doesn't brood because of that overhanging fate. Doubtless she realizes, as her friends do, that when that time comes, no less than now, she will go on weaving her beautiful tapestry of friendship, sending out from its central figure, which is her own lovely personality, threads of silver and gold to bind innumerable other personalities into her design. CTY SD THE DESERT SHALL BLOSSOM By Lorine Hutchinson Lee As the desert thirsts for water, So thirsts the world of men For streams of understanding, That peace may bloom again. As oases on the desert Are friendships to mankind, Springs of inspiration, Refreshment to the mind. Modern Pioneers By Vaunee T. Larsen OODBYE! Goodbye everyone!" Sue and Jack Taylor gave one last call to the group of friends on the station platform all frantically waving and blowing kisses as the train sped away. "Oh, Jack, we're leaving Utah for a long time, perhaps." "Sue, you aren't really disappointed in the way things have worked out for us?" incredulously queried Jack. "Why, Darling, I couldn't know that Uncle John, whom I have never seen, was going to die and bequeath to me, his only kin, his most precious possession, a musty little book store in—now what's the name of the town?" "Jack, you know it's Virginia, Illinois." Then, puckering her face, "I wonder what it will be like." They were silent for awhile. Jack was inwardly pinching himself for the good fortune that had come to them. Surely a book shop would provide a more lucrative income than his old job as clerk in the hardware store. He hadn't liked the hardware business, though he had thought himself lucky three years ago when he'd landed the job. His thoughts then had been all for Sue —Sue Collins, and the prettiest girl ever to graduate from old Fairfield High—now his wife for almost a year, and more beautiful than ever. "Well, in a way it will be hard for her," Jack's thoughts ran on, "she loves Fairfield and all her friends." Sue's thoughts were far from idle speculation on the passing scenery. She was remembering Grandma Hubbard's last words to her. "Sue, you're going to a strange place. You'll live among strangers—you whom I've reared from babyhood. Remember there's good in everyone. If you ever feel slights or hurts from the actions of others, hide it. Be sweet and loving yourself. Pray to our Father that He may strengthen you, and may God bless you, Dear." The tears came to Sue's eyes now as she thought of Grandma— the only mother she'd ever known. The farewell parties the past week while she and Jack had made ready to leave had been such fun, too. They had played games and laughed and really hadn't thought of leave taking. As she thought of it all now it seemed as if the whole town knew how deeply her roots were with them and wanted her to know there would always be a place for her. Yes, maybe in another two weeks she and Jack would be going to entertainments in Virginia. Oh, it was a grand world after all. "Jack, there is a branch Sunday School at Virginia, isn't there? It will be fun to start right in helping all we can." "Why no, Darling. I thought you heard Bishop Wells say we'd have to do something to get one started." At her look of dismay he hastily continued, "The people ought to be pretty nice there. Of course as far as I can learn, Uncle John was a staunch church-goer and we can probably work in his church and maybe get a chance to explain ours." Sue's face brightened. "Of course, we'll get along grand. I'm glad Virginia is a small place. I'd be lonesome in a big city." "Here now! Remember, you've always got me—the most adoring husband in the world." "And I believe every single bit of your blarney, Mr. Taylor," Sue replied. Then they launghed—that delictous laugh of youth that destroys MODERN all fears. During the rest of their journéy Sue and Jack kept up a constant chatter concerning their new business and new home. They were interested in all the new things they saw along the way. Sue kept a diary so she could write long and interesting letters to Grandma and the girls. Ig was that cozy time of evening, 5:30, when the giant train stopped at Virginia and two excited young people alighted on _ their "promised land." The old station master with spectacles on the end of his nose, and cap-pushed far back on his white hair, was their welcoming committee. "Now, do you be the Mr. Taylor whose baggage is stored over there? It come the other day and we've been a speculatin' on who you might be. My name's Adams — Tim Adams." This speech was evidently a question and Jack, only too glad of an opportunity to explain, proudly introduced Sue and related the story of the book store." "Well, young feller, you and your wife have got a nice business all laid out for you. Wish you luck. Where did you say you come from?" Jack had not said, but he quickly answered, "Utah—and a lovely place, too, Mr. Adams." "Hm, I've always wanted to meet someone from Utah. I've heard a lot about the 'Mormons.' I suppose there's a lot of them there." Apparently Mr. Adams' curiosity was not to be lightly disregarded. "Yes, there are," Jack answered. "Now, you have two right here. We're 'Mormons'." "You are!" Mr. Adams exclaimed, evidently shaken out of his normal acceptance of life. As he turned away Sue and Jack heard him mutter, "They're a nice appearin' young couple, too." Then abruptly turning to them, PIONEERS 531 "Well, I wish you lots of success, but if I were you I'd keep still about my religion. This town's pretty religious-minded itself. It goes way back, and people are liable to turn agin you. Now, young feller, don't get cross with me. I like you and I won't say a thing agin you. Just warnin' you for your own good." "How," he thought, "old John Smithersby happened to leave his book store to a 'Mormon' is more than I can see."' GUE and Jack stayed that night at '" the town hotel, the gathering place for local gossip. "The next morning over many of Virginia's breakfast tables conversation centered on young Jack and Sue Taylor—dressed, not too smartly, some said, but evidently full of fun and no doubt would go "in the best circles." And "going in the best circles" was important in Virginia's social life. Tim Adams' advice had only momentarily disheartened Sue and Jack. Now they were busy getting settled in their "dear little doll house" so Sue wrote to Grandma. With this easily accomplished Sue decided to help Jack in the store. The store was all Jack could think about. He fell in love with the tiny office in front and the rows of new books, eight rows, to be exact, and back of them ten rows of old books. He soon discovered that it had been Uncle John's custom to accept an old book as part payment on a new one. There were magazines in the place, too. It was spic and span and tidily kept. However, Sue with her womanly intuition and love of home recognized at once how badly it needed a homely touch. She found an old sofa and some old chairs in the store room. Soon her deft hands had transformed a bare little corner of the store into an attractive reading nook, with a table of magazines 532 and books, good reading lights, a pretty potted plant and the comfortable old sofa and chairs masquerading as new in their gay chintz covers. Jack was pleased with Sue's interest. Each morning they would lovingly dust and polish the books and shelves. They did their work well, and it was not uncommon to hear one or the other say, "Here's a book we just must read—look at the title.' Then hastily assuming once more their businesslike airs they would continue with their work. The book store business seemed to be just what Jack had always wanted. As for, Sue, seeing Jack so happy and busy pouring over his book catalogs made her happy and contented too. She didn't need to remember Grandma's words, she naturally loved everybody and everything. Jack and Sue had a way of making people feel happy in their store. They let them browse around and when a customer wanted something, they were ready. The tired country women soon found the reading nook a handy place to wait for their husbands on shopping days. Rather self-consciously they would pick up a book or magazine, these women who never seemed to get a chance to read anything but daily papers, and not always those. NE afternoon when the reading nook was filled with tired women and several children, the door opened with a flourish, the little bell above tinkling furiously as if it had been commissioned to inform the whole store that it was honored with the presence of Mrs. Arthur B. Bentley. She waited just inside the front door like a stately queen for the homage of her subjects. Jack hurriedly approached her and his disarming smile, boyish face, curly brown hair charmed and softened RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her as an April wind playing over March hills. "May I help you, Mrs. °" "Bentley. Mrs. Arthur B. Bentley. My husband has the bank here. No doubt you'll be doing business with him. Mr. Taylor, I came to call on you and Mrs. Taylor." Sue immediately came forward. Jack was proud to introduce her. She looked so sweet in her bright flowered smock and every bit as much a lady as Mrs. Bentley herself. "Won't you sit down, Mrs. Bentley?" and Sue motioned toward the reading nook where only a chair or two were vacant. Mrs. Bentley started to accept the invitation and then, evidently seeing the occupants of the nook, declined rather ungraciously. It was a little embarrassing for Sue. She had never before known anything of class consciousness. In Fairfield it was what a man or woman was inside that mattered. She quickly turned aside any unkind thoughts of Mrs. Bentley. Perhaps she really didn't have time to sit down. Mrs. Bentley continued, "What I really came in for is to invite you to our church services on Sunday. You must know your Uncle John was a staunch pillar of the church and we're expecting the same of you." Jack spoke for them both and Sue's eyes were shining bits of blue. "Thank you, Mrs. Bentley. We're anxious to get into church work. You see we aren't members of Uncle's church. We belong to the Latter-day Saint Church. However, since there are no 'Mormons' here we'll do all you'll let us do in your church activities." Mrs. Bentley's attitude became rigid. Slowly she answered, "Really? You're really 'Mormons?' Why I MODERN PIONEERS can't believe it. I'm afraid Mr. And Mrs. Taylor, you've mistaken my motive for calling. Perhaps we'll see one another again sometime." The tone of her last sentence indicated she did not expect to encounter them again. Slowly she took a majestic departure. Jack's eyes were blazing and Sue was crestfallen. "Now we know what Tim Adams meant," she whispered to Jack. The women in the reading nook were watching them. They had witnessed the whole humiliating affair. "Buck up," Jack whispered. Sue wondered what these women would do. Until now she had never realized that there were such displays of intolerance as had just been dealt her and Jack. Grandma had told her to open her heart to all. Well she would try.. Mollie Harper's motherly nature responded toethe hurt she sensed. Quickly she spoke, "Now, Mrs. Taylor, don't feel bad about what Mrs. Bentley just said. Why I've never known anyone as helpful as you, and you're just as nice to me and the rest of us as you are to the society people. People here aren't all like Mrs. Bentley, but she sort of rules the roost in this town.": Sue felt the friendliness. Mollie continued, "Say, would you and Mr. Taylor come out to our house for dinner, Sunday? Of course it probably isn't what you're used to but we are very comfortable." Her children clamored at once, "Oh, do come, please, come." Sue answered Mollie gaily, "All right, we'd love to." ANP so it was that Sue and Jack Taylor became not a part of the "best" circle of this little town, but the beloved friends of the Harpers and other families like them; families where thrift and economy and 533 hard work were naturally accepted and where a person's inside mattered so much more than the outside. And Sue and Jack gave of their best to their new friends. Sue wrote regularly to Grandma and once in a while to the girls. She did not mention the incident with Mrs. Bentley nor the fact that the "best people' thought them queer. She really loved her new friends and spoke glowingly and sincerely of them. One afternoon Sue was at the shop when the postman came bringing her new issue of the Relief Society Magazine. She settled herself comfortably in the nook to read it. There were no customers in the store so Jack said, "Read it to me, too, will you, Sweet, while I sit here at your feet?" And so it was Mollie Harper found them almost an hour later. "What interests you two so much?" she inquired before they could rise. Sue showed her the magazine. "Well, how interesting,' Mollie said as she thumbed through the pages. ''Here's some lessons back here. What are they, Sue?' Sue explained the four divisions of work in the Relief Society. "Oh, Mollie, I've missed it so here. I'd give almost anything to be back with it again." "Well," Mollie said bluntly, "why can't we start it here? I know all of us country women need something like that." "Really, Mollie, you mean that? I know we could have some interesting and helpful meetings," said Sue enthusiastically." UE was tireless in her efforts to make proper arrangements, and finally the first meeting was held in Sue's "dear little doll house." The women, Mollie's friends, re- 534 sponded in a way surprising even to Sue who recognized their worth. They all volunteered to take part in the meetings. They agreed with Sue that it would do them all good to prepare and give topics before the group. Sue loaned her books so that all had a chance to prepare. At first some of the women were very timid, not having had-any experience in a group where each one was called on to express herself. But with Sue there things went smoothly. Their meetings ran along week after week bringing new interest into the lives of these women and so to their families. At first the men had been frankly skeptical but now all wholeheartedly approved of the practical handwork for the home their wives were doing and the thrifty new ideas they were demonstrating. The husbands liked the idea of their wives belonging to so cultural and helpful a group. Tears filled Mollie's eyes when she told Sue what her husband had said, "Why Mollie, lately you look ten years younger—yjust like the Mollie I married." And Mollie declared, "It's all because of you and Jack, Sue." The town reporter had ignored their meetings at first. However, when they became the talk of all the country women he decided they RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE were important enough for the paper. Thereafter occasional accounts of the meetings began to appear in the paper. Some scoffed at what was being done, but not Mrs. Arthur B. Bentley. She was a sensible person when it came to an unselfish piece of work. She read the accounts of the meetings and recognized Sue's genius behind it all. She never had forgotten Jack's manliness, nor Sue's charming manner, and so, being in a position where she could condemn and forgive at will, she chose to "forgive." NE bright morning the following spring and almost a year since Sue and Jack had arrived in Virginia, Mrs. Bentley opened their door for a second time. Jack, eager to please, as usual, stepped forward, a smiling inquiry on his face, and Sue, working with him in the store, unconsciously put a protecting hand on his arm. "Mr. And Mrs. Taylor I do hope you'll overlook the delay in this invitation, but as you know, I've been very busy this last winter. Would you please honor us by coming to dinner Saturday evening at 6:30?" Sue and Jack were delighted. They didn't realize they were the only ones who had ever really scored against Mrs. Bentley. Bek CAMOUFLAGE By Alice Morrey Bailey Gay little dress of flame—crisp— Dancing and flirting Who, looking at you, could guess You hide a heart—hurting? The Children's Reading By Florence Ivins Hyde NO. VII—ETHICAL STORIES. "Could we give one gift to every child We should choose the love of books.* —Wailliam Frederick Bigelow. NE of the most important functions of story telling is to develop ideals. To Latter-day Saints, to whom character development means so much, perhaps it is the most important function. We spend our time and our energy to develop in our children the capacity to distinguish right from wrong and to make them strong enough to choose to do the. Right. Nothing, unless it be pictures, is so important in influencing character in very young children as the stories they hear. The ideals of these early stories become their ideals and if they are not what they should be it takes long and arduous struggle to change them. Plato, the great teacher once said, "In order to teach a child truth, it is necessary to teach him fiction." The greatest teachers of the world, even Christ himself, have used stories to arouse the desire for good conduct. The reason for this is that fiction affects the emotions as no other type of literature does. Through it we feel what the characters feel, know what they think as well as how they act. If a desirable emotion is made much of, a child comes to glorify that emotion. If base emotions are justified he comes to justify them. For this reason bad fiction, and we have plenty of it, can do irreparable harm. *Courtesy Good Houskeeping Magazine WE give ethical stories to inspire the desire to do some good deed or to develop some desirable quality. Each time that desire is created it becomes that much more a part of the child's character. Rhymes appeal to tiny tots even more than stories. To make them want to be polite we hold up a positive ideal such as this: "Peterkin Paul was so very polite That he said to the stones on the street, Excuse me, I pray, for stepping on you, But there's no other place for my feet." Or this from Robert Louis Stevenson: "A child should always say what's true And speak when he is spoken to, And behave mannerly at table, At least, so far as he is able." Or this from Alice Carey: "There are no fairy folk who ride above this world at night, To give you rings or other things to pay for doing right. But if you'll do to others what you'd have them do to you, You'll be as blest as if the best of fairy tales were true." To really affect the emotions a story must be well told. It takes literary art to write good moral stories just as it does to write other types. The exquisitely told story of "The Last Lesson" by Alphonse Daudet would touch the heart of every person, young or old. The facts of a story must touch the heart of the child and quicken his emotions, to be of value. When he feels this emotional response he tends to emmulate the act depicted in the story. If we wish to make him feel con- 536 tempt for hyprocisy or for dishonesty we must use a method which will call forth a contempt response. Nothing in literature offers so much material for ethical teaching as the Bible, but we should hunt for other stories which may appear in our general reading. 'The Village Blacksmith" could inspire a boy to be a solid character. This like any other good ethical story tells the truth. There are moral stories which do not. Watch for them. WHEN children are very young we have control over their reading. It is when they begin to grow up that we suddenly discover that they like many things we prefer them not to read. They even smile at some of the things we think are necessary to give them the cultural background we are so anxious to have them receive. They are bound to get hold of some poor books but if better things are at hand to go along with them we will observe that by degrees they will begin to develop a descriminating taste. This is the time to include in reading besides fiction, history and biography. The most important function of any form of moral instruction is to reveal the nature of right and wrong. History and Biography do that very thing. They teach us of great men and great deeds as well as of bad men and bad deeds. From them we learn that we reap as we sow. Tell more of the emotions of people. Our imagination helps us to put ourselves in the place of the characters and helps us to understand human life, which is basic in the formation of character. Biography is the moral element in history. A book which stands supreme among biographies-is Mark Autobiographies and fiction.  Twain's "Joan of Arc." Every adult should feel its inspiration. Mark Twain says of the Maid of Orleans, "Her character is ideally perfect. It occupies the loftiest place possible to human attainment, a loftier one than has been reached by any other mere mortal." N all this attempt to influence the development of character through stories we must remember that the effort is Jargely wasted unless the truth of the story is applied to specific problems, which is the difficult thing to do. In reading such stories as the "Good Samaritan" the principle involved should be applied to present-day needs. It is useless to teach a child that he must be helpful unless we show him the specific things which constitutes helpfulness —as helping the blind across the street, offering help to the car broken down on the road, etc. In teaching courtesy we must point out the fact that he must stand in the presence of ladies, offer his seat ina crowded place to those older than himself, etc. After a story on neatness a child should be shown that neatness consists in washing the face and hands clean, combing the hair, hanging his towel and wash cloth in place, etc. The story provides the ideal but we have no character development until the act has been performed. This is the last step in moral teaching—to supply the opportunity to act in the right way. And his act must be voluntary. Activity has no moral value until he does right voluntarily. The purpose of ethical stories, then, is to develop character. The place for them is the home, the church and the school, but the home has much the advantage over the other two agencies. Some families have a fine family relationship but THE CHILDREN'S READING the children lack character. Character has to do with our sense of right and wrong, with our obligations to society, with the motives which control our lives. We are strong or weak according to our ability to live up to the principles that have been established as right in conduct. Mary S. Becker sums up the qualities of a good book in these words: "A good book is one that enriches your life by developing your mind, widening your experience or enlarging your sympathies. If it does none of these let it alone." Recommended Books For grown-up boys and girls: Robert Louis Stevenson by Balfour. George Washington by Scudder. Abraham Lincoln by Butterworth. Any biography of Frances E. Willard. Autobiography of Lincoln Steffens. BE For In-Between Age: Boys and Girls Who Became Famous by Sarah K. Bolton. Captains of Industry by James Parton. Story of My Life by Helen Keller. Up From Slavery by Booker T. Washington. "Invincible Louisa by Cornelia Meigs. Good collections of ethical stories are rare. For Very Young Children: Stories For the Bedtime Hour by Margaret W. Eggleston. Ethics For Children by Ella Lyman Cabot. Neither of these collections is entirely satisfactory. If you have access to a library, however, there are a few fine stories in Ethics For Children. I am of the opinion that some very fine stories could be written from the early missionary experiences of our grandfathers; no stories could better illustrate the virtues of faith, courage, and loyalty. *Very good. CTRL Oo9O UPWARD LILT By Claire Stewart Boyer It is the upward lilt of song That carries wearied hearts along; To feel the rising curve of day Is turning tasks to play. It is the upward lilt of heart— Ah, could you catch it at the start Of everything you try to do, Life would be lyrical for you! Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd By Dorothy Clapp Robinson CHAPTER FIVE EFORE our visiting teachers B were sent out we had a meeting with them. The Teacher Topic leader worked hard to get them all there. "If we cannot have a good beginning,'"' she said to me, "what condition will the teaching be in before spring?" She had asked that all bring pencils and notebooks but provided herself with extras for those who would forget. She had the lesson carefully outlined and put it on the blackboard where all could see. She gave the lesson from the outline and all the teachers copied it, together with some illustrative material she had brought. Then when the lesson was finished she opened her own notebook and on the inside of the front cover was pasted a _ picture of an old-time sailing vessel. She held it up where all could see. "In the days when this vessel was used," she said, "there were no turbines or motors as we know them today. Vessels sailed under power of the wind. That inspired the poet to say this," she read from beneath the picture: "One ship sails east, and one sails west By the self same wind that blows. For it is the set of the sail And not the gale, That determines the way it goes." "Tt is up to each of you to select your own port—that place for which you are headed. When the season's work is over we shall see how many of us have reached our destination. Remember, you are setting the sail and the journey can end disastrously or you can weather every storm and sail triumphantly ahead. You are the one to determine that." She gave each of them a mimeographed copy of the vessel and the poem. "When I feel discouraged," she ended, "I shall refer to this. That is why I pasted it in the front of my book." Later she said to me, "If that won't keep them working I shall have to find some other device to keep them going ahead. For problems such as this there is a solution. I shall make it my job to find it." A°? We sang the opening song for our first literary lesson I made a swift but accurate survey of the room. The attendance was average or a little better. Even Bessie Dye and her friend Ruth were here and they were not talking as usual. I was thankful they were present. I had given a great deal of thought and prayer to this group. They were the hardest of all to interest but I felt sure they had something to give us if once they became interested, and certainly the organization could help them. Our meetings are so organized that they offer something to each individual that makes for growth. I noticed there was a flushed, slightly eager look on Bessie's face that was new, and in her hand she clutched a paper as if fearful of losing it. It was soon apparent why. After previewing briefly the year's work and asking questions for a few minutes on biography the leader asked Mrs. Dye to tell a part of the lesson in her own words. Bessie went before the room tremblingly. She began slowly with her eyes on the paper but she had some- DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD thing to tell and soon she was telling it earnestly, understandingly. I could feel the interest of the audience rise to meet her. She was limited to ten minutes. Then another member took up the story where she left off and finished it. Afterward Mrs. Stimmel took the floor and for the remainder of the time lead a discussion and read excerpts, enough to interest the: women in wishing to read it for themselves. She asked questions of two or three whose answers showed they had had the questions ahead of time. No matter, they had risen and expressed a thought. They had found the lesson did touch their lives. This woman they were studying had problems identical with some of theirs. How she solved her difficulties pointed a way to other solutions. This lesson did not have the polish of some I had heard Mrs. Stimmel give but it reached a greater number of women. I congratulated her afterward and asked how she had interested Mrs. Dye. "T went to her home," came the quiet answer, "'and talked it over with her until I had her interest aroused. She did the rest herself and has already asked for the next book." So the success of our literary lessons was assured. Mrs. Stimmel had accepted our challenge and there was no doubt as to the outcome. 3 ** CISTER MAYLORD," I turned to face the chorister. "I want to tell you how much I enjoyed the lesson today and wish I could be here to hear all of them, but we are moving." "Moving?" My first reaction was a sense of regret, then relief. Things have a way of adjusting themselves. "Yes, out, of town. My husband has been transferred and we are moving this week." 539 Afterward I consulted my counselors. Immediately Rhoda Blomquist cried, "Now Mrs. Holsinger will have to accept.' A deep warm glow of satisfaction stole over me. Rhoda had said that, and she had been so spontaneous and sincere about it. "Can you go with me to ask her?" She couldn't, but she offered to sponsor a party for the retiring chorister. Before leaving the building I called Bishop. He was willing as he had been before. But when I reached the Holsinger home Gloria was not there. I waited until my dinner was over and the children asleep, then went again. "You are persistent, aren't you, Dona? Why? What is there about your organization that fills you with such enthusiasm? I am going to propose your name for membership in the Progress Club. We need someone like you." I chose my words carefully. "From all nations of the world our people have been gathered. I imagine they were the open-minded ones, willing to forsake the traditional for the progressive. That in itself would be conducive to enlightenment. Then they were given a plan that rightly administered would leaven the standards of all womankind." "You might say that of any club." "We might, but would it work out the same? Our organization is knit together by something more intangible than rules and forms. I call it spirit. Clubs do not have that and they are more or less limiting in membership. That is, they are usually confined to certain social groups." "We do that for our own protection." "And thereby limit your growth and understanding. Our membership is open to every woman of moral in- 540 tegrity. To know women from all stations in life is to know and understand social and economic problems. I am not against clubs. They serve a definite purpose, but speaking largely, our own organization should come first to our women." After a great deal more along the same line she asked. "But why pick me for a chorister?" "We haven't anyone in our organization just like you. You have said that as a group we lack poise. You can help to give us that. You know and love music. You have a personality that can lead. Under you J can visualize the women entering a new field by a familiar gateway. I see them learning appreciation, finding its place in their lives, connecting the history of music with our lessons, singing with understanding and appreciation."' Gloria had been comfortable in her big chair, eyes partly closed, a slightly amused expression on her delicate features. As I finished she sat up suddenly, eagerness breaking over her face in a flood of light. "T have always wanted to do that. I would love it." Then her voice dropped to a conversational tone. "Tl test your plan, Dona Maylord. I'll see if your organization holds for me all that you promise. When do I begin?" "Right now. Here is my magazine and the instructions from the stake board. It includes a list of suggested songs. You may plan your music accordingly." ON my way home I had to pass the Grow house. I was walking rapidly looking at something across the street when I collided with someone and someone's arms pinned me tight. I struggled violently, then a little laugh reassured me. I twisted my head. By the flare of the street RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE light I could see Tim's laughing face. "Tim, what are you doing here this time of night?" "T might ask the same."; "But I thought you were working." "T have been and now I am going to work some more, but I will see you home first." What fun to be taken home again under the protection of his strong arm. I wanted those few blocks to last and last. At our own steps he stooped and placed a swift hard kiss on my lips. "There you are, my dear. Run along to bed. Don't wait for me for there is no telling when I shall be back." Then he was gone and: I was left staring stupidly at his retreating figure. What work was he going to do this time of night? No matter. He loved me and that left no room for doubt. Salle Richards was waiting in the living room. After I had paid and dismissed Mrs. Jenkins she said, "T came to pay you some on the dress and shoes." "Can you spare it so soon?" "T have had a pay check." She wore the dress and shoes and I scrutinized her relentlessly. If there was a flaw in her appearance I failed to find it. Her hair was sleek and shining, the result of planned care. Her make-up was moderate but becoming. Already the fretful, restless look had left her face. "You like your work?' "Do I? I love it. And Mr. Holsinger likes me. I can tell." "How could he help it? I knew you would make good. I could see it shining from your eyes." At that her eyes misted. "Thanks to you I took the position. There is something else I came here to tell you," she looked down at the ring on her finger. "I am going to be DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD 54] married but am going on with my work." "When are you getting married?" She hesitated. Then, 'He has set his mind on two weeks from today. He is being ugly about my work but I am not giving it up for anyone." "Why are you marrying him?" Salle faced me in sudden anger, "Why does any girl marry any boy? To have a home. To be protected and provided for." I wanted to smile at her inconsistency. "But love, Salle?" I could still feel Tim's kiss on my lips and my heart ached for this stubborn girl. "He loves me and that is why he will finally consent to my working. He will do anything to keep me and I could go to town on that. Imagine my marrying someone who thinks he is conferring a favor on me?" I sighed. There was nothing else to do. "T have joined Mutual. I am going to their Hallowe'en dance." "With Don?" "T don't think he would be interested.", "And still you will marry him." She rose abruptly. "I must go now." As I reached to open the door for her the bell rang. It was Kent Evans. Fate? This time I would not interfere. After greeting us he asked, "Is Tim here?" "No. He is working." "Gee. I thought if I waited until now he would surely be here. We can't seem to get together on this teaching business." Salle pushed past him onto the step. "Thanks, Mrs. Maylord. And goodnight." Kent turned with ill-concealed haste. ""No sense in my waiting. If you don't mind I will walk down the street with you." As they passed under the street light I could see them. He held her arm in both his hands and she was looking up into his face laughing. ' There was something about them that clutched at my heart. "Dear Lord," I breathed, let her make a mistake." (To be continued) "don't DESIRE By Evelyn Wooster Viner If I could but portray in words or paint The look of weather-beaten cottage quaint; The mystery of a silvered, moon-drenched world; The wonder of a lily, fresh unfurled; The majesty of mountains lifting high Against the changing glory of the sky; Or light or shadow on the mountain slope; So that some weary soul would lift to hope— How worth while life would be! Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon UGUST—Now nears the end of all our plays For just a breath of autumn haze Throws shadows through the golden maize. LEANOR ROOSEVELT'S pet project—''Greenbelt" in Maryland—is now in full swing and apparently thriving. About seven hundred families, among them a number of Utahns, have taken advantage of the low rent and quiet community life, and now occupy the attractive rows of white houses with their blue shutters and small gardens. The experiment was meant to be a benefit to the small salaried man and seems to be a success. LIZABETH, Queen of England, and all the royal family are in mourning because of the death of the Queen's mother, Nina Cavendish-Bentinck, Countess of Strathmore. MAY AGNES SHANLEY, detective on the New York police force, arrested a pickpocket in a down town store and walked him to the police station, where she discovered her man had been hunted for by the police for ten years in connection with a $20,000 jewelry robbery. Alice MARBLE, Helen Jacobs, Helen Wills Moody, three California: young women walked off with the honors in the Wimbledon tennis tournament this summer. F. PNA HARKER THOMAS, wife of Senator Thomas of Utah, is chairman for the Red Cross Unit of the Senate Ladies. The report of her work is said to show the highest accomplishment since World War days. Washington papers give her high praise. - ARY NORTON, New Jersey representative in Congress, was perhaps the most gratified of any one over the passage of the "Wage and Hours' Bill. No one worked harder for it. ORMA SHEARER has been selected to play Scarlett O'Hara in the cinema "Gone With The Wind." The public is looking forward to a greater sensation than that made by the book some months ago provided she is equal to the part. CATHARIN E TOHAKWITA, an Indian girl, who worked among the tribes in the United States and Canada in relief and conversion about two centuries ago is to receive beatification. She was known as "Lily of. The Mohawks." OROTHY TIDWELL, twelveyear-old farm girl, proved herself a heroine beyond measure for praise or decoration when she dived into the swollen Mississippi and saved her four younger sisters from a submerged car. ARRIET MONROE since the publication of her autobiography titled "A Poet's Life," has been classed by the critics "The High Priestess of American Poetry." Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Poem Contest annually. Three prizes will be awarded—a first prize of $15, a second prize of $10, and a third prize of $5. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, and to pay for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Relief Society Magazine, and closes October 15. Tit General Board conducts Rules of the Contest 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written. 4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. Only one side of the paper should be used. 6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 7. Statement should accompany the poem submitted that it is her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 8. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest. 9. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 11. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15. 12. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. RED-WINGED BLACKBIRDS By Lydia Hall One morning when the tallest peak Had caught the sun's first ray I heard the red-winged blackbirds sing Where cat-tails nod and sway. But when they ceased their caroling And flew into the dawn On wings set for the south, I knew That summer, too, was gone. Magazine Drive NCE again the stakes and wards are making preparation for the Magazine Drive which in most places will be held from September 15 to October 15. Last season achievements were most gratifying. We reached the highest circulation in our history and the Magazine went into homes which had never before known it. This accomplishment was the result of tireless effort, both in planning the drive, directing the work and in making the actual sales contacts. We greatly appreciate the splendid service of those responsible for this success. The benefits derived from the work of those connected with the Magazine Drive can scarcely be measured. Theirs is a service to the General Board, the stake and local officers, class leaders, Relief Society members, and is also a missionary service in thousands of homes. HIS year we trust that plans will be just as carefully made as heretofore; that the representatives will be equally versatile and diligent and that the same measure of success will be attendant. We urge that Executive Officers be ready to assist in every way possible. Often they can secure subscriptions where agents are unsuccessful in doing so, and their active support is a source of encouragement to agents whose work is intensified during the Drive. The goal of the Drive should be a subscription list equal to the number of Relief Society members in the organization — active, inactive, and honorary. We suggest that the agents secure the exact enrollment figure as of January 1, 1938 from the Secretary. This figure should be the same as that sent to the General Office in the annual report. "THE new grouping for awards should be an added stimulus. Wards will be divided into three groups—A, B, C. Group A will include all wards with a total enrollment of 100 or more. Group B will include all wards with a total enrollment of 50 to 99, inclusive. Group C will include all wards with a total enrollment up to 49. To the four ward agents in each group obtaining the highest percentage, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine will be presented at the Relief Society General Conference held in April. This grouping gives all wards an opportunity for position among those receiving the highest percentages. HE new report forms, which have already been mailed to the stakes, should simplify the record keeping and assist in the accuracy of reporting percentages. We urge again that all stake representatives see that reports reach our office not later than November 10, 1938, otherwise wards cannot be listed on the honor roll. In the past this has caused great disappointment. WE trust the following suggestions will be carried out by our agents: 1. Know the Magazine. Be converted to its worth and the importance of the service you are rendering to both the purchaser and the organization. 2. Aim to contact every home in the ward. 3. Talk intelligently on what the Magazine contains. 4, Study the art of selling. MAGAZINE DRIVE 545 5. Keep records accurately. 6. Send in subscriptions legibly written and containing the necessary information: name, address, when subscription begins, amount of money sent. It is very important that agents should be accurate in stating the month each subscriber wishes to commence. This will help us to avoid mailing two copies of the same issue to a subscriber. It will also tend to alleviate much work and expense in making the changes later. This list with the money should be sent directly by the Ward Agents to the Magazine office in Salt Lake City. Each Agent should carefully read the pamphlet "Instructions to Magazine Agents". The Magazine office will be pleased to assist in any way possible to make the 1938 Drive the greatest in the history of our organization. A — (5 REVERENCE By Mabel Jones Dear Lord, at morning's dawn I pray, Help me to walk like Thee, today. Give me of Thine own courage true, Strength and poise the whole day through. Let my own selfish thought and plan Take wing in love of my fellowman. Lord, teach me patience, this I need, Gladness to do each irksome deed. Help me to trust always in Thee, I would look upward reverently. Lord, from Thy holiness I pray, Give me humility today. Truly sincere, Lord, I would be With myself, my fellowman, and Thee. Give me the confidence when days are drear, To say Thy words, "Be of good cheer." Lord, I would crown each day with love, Pure and holy as Thine above. Though despair or joy be mine today, Help me to walk like Thee, I pray. Note: The study of the character of Jesus in Relief Society during the past year inspired the thoughts expressed in this poem. Out of the Best Books By Kate Wilde "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith." —Doctrine and Covenants 88:118. THE CLASS LEADER AT HOME HE wise class leader who has | an entire month in which to prepare her lessons, will make good use of each day in this period. She will not be content with a frenzied attempt at preparation just before class time. She will realize that the part of her lesson which takes the greatest effort and which is the most important is her preparation. Largely upon the exertion which she puts forth at home depends her success in the class period. That she might have "the spirit of wisdom and revelation" prayer should precede and accompany all her efforts in lesson preparation. Through humble, sincere prayer she places herself in a position to receive that divine inspiration and aid without which any effort will be inadequate. Reading the material and suggestions given in the Magazine will assure her teaching the lesson planned by the General Board; it will give her the Latter-day Saint viewpoint, and will help her to harmonize her lesson with the lessons which are to be given that day in other Relief Societies throughout the Church. Now she is ready to read the text. Here she will take notes of the important things she wishes to include, and the quotations she desires to use. She will check carefully to make sure everything she has included is in tune with the attitudes indicated in the Magazine. She will then study and take notes on all of the suggested references, also other relevant material to which she may have access. If all of this has been done at least a week before lesson time, she will have time to assimilate much of this material. If she never has tried this method of preparation, she will be surprised at the number and variety of pertinent thoughts which come to her. In conversation with her family and friends, many helpful ideas may be gained. From her husband she may get the viewpoint of one holding the Priesthood with the added enlightenment which this brings. These thoughts and ideas she will jot down for future use. She now has the background material fairly well in hand, and is ready to begin the definite planning of her lesson. The class leader realizes that she does not teach just to present the lesson material. She hopes to teach certain truths by means of this material. So the first step in planning her lesson will be to select an objective to definitely determine just what she wishes to teach through the various facts presented. Then with her objective constantly in mind, she organizes her lesson material, selecting the incidents and illustrations from her notes which will develop the objective. She may find it necessary to do additional research on certain items and to eliminate others. She will not be alarmed if she has taken notes on material which she does not include. She wants to be certain, however, that she has included all of the material that is necessary in carrying the objective home to each sister, and that this can be presented in the allotted time. OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Now that her material is all prepared and organized, just how will she use it in the lesson period? Whether it will be by the lecture method, by questions, discussions, or a combination of methods will be determined at home. Whatever method is employed, the use of several good thought-provoking questions will help hold the attention and interest of the class. The final step in preparation should be familiarizing herself with the material to the extent that reference to an outline is all that is necessary for developing the lesson. Exceptions to this statement include reading short excerpts that would lose materially by being told. _The preparation which the teacher gives her lesson cannot be seen by her class, but it is sensed by them. The wise class leader is the thoroughly prepared one, who so employes her time at home that she goes to Relief Society able to do more than just give her lesson; she really teaches her class. THE TEACHER IN THE CLASS ROOM 'THE day of the lesson has arrived. The class leader has studied the material in the Magazine, the text, and the references given. She has formulated her objective, and organized her material with this constantly in mind. She has become so familiar with the material that reference to an outline is ordinarily all that is necessary. This means she does not need to have a number of notes, papers or books to shuffle about. Before leaving home she again seeks divine assistance, that the truths she has studied might be used most effectively, and that her words and actions might be pleasing in the sight of the Father, and instructive to. The class members. She. Faces her class knowing that 547 many present have had educational advantages at least equal to her own; therefore, she thinks of the members as equals, never as inferiors. The wise class leader has prepared in various ways for contributions from the class. Special reports, summaries, stories, readings, and telling of personal experiences to add interest to the lesson, have been assigned in advance. Last month's lesson is briefly recalled in order to correlate the subject matter. The class leader is aware that the objective selected is never stated at the beginning of the lesson, but permeates the entire lesson. In presenting the lesson, the lecture method is much better than reading the material, although whenever practicable, discussions should be used. Varying the method frequently will avoid monotony. The interesting teacher often challenges attention by an unusual approach to the subject matter. Through questions and discussions she keeps the members of the class mentally alert. She realizes that most of the sisters have access to the Magazine. She encourages them to prepare their lessons at home by refraining from reading them the material given, but assumes their knowledge by asking questions about it. The poorly prepared teacher who must read one paragraph before formulating a question, then read another to - see if the answer is given correctly, may discourage preparation and attendance as well. Many class members not only read their lessons, but study them by looking up the meaning and pronunciation of unfamiliar words or phrases, and reading the references. If the teacher who has a class of this type wants the members to come and enjoy her lesson, she cannot use slipshod methods. When the teaching has been effective, the truth expressed in the ob- 548 jective has reached the various members of the class. Through questions near the close of the period, the teacher can often help class members to see the application of the truths taught in their own lives. The class leader should always bear in mind that it is not the subject matter but the individuals of the class whom she teaches. When her teaching becomes so effective RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that her objectives are being attained, 'in that the knowledge, habits or attitudes of these individuals are changing for the better, she may know she is. Using the course of study for the benefit of those she teaches. Then she may sense a satisfaction similar to that which came to the faithful servant when he heard his master say, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant." The Gift of Wisdom By George Gardner "A CHILD and a man," says Dr. Long, "were one day walking on the seashore when the child found a little shell and held it to his ear. Suddenly he heard sounds—strange, low, melodious sounds—as if the shell were remembering and repeating to itself the murmurs of its ocean home. The child's face filled with wonder as he listened. Here in the little shell, apparently, was a voice from another world, and he listened with delight to its mystery and music. Then came the man, explaining that the child 'heard nothing strange, that the pearly curves of the shell caught a multitude of sounds too faint for human ears, * * * It was not a new world, but only the unnoticed harmony of the old that had aroused the child's wonder." The shell, the radio, the microscope and the telescope have brought to man's attention a world richer and more beautiful and more interesting than he had dreamed possible. There are sounds and sights and truths to gladden the hearts of t' ose who believe in the scripture, "Seek and ye shall find." The commonplace appears extraordinary to such men. They are very rare and very important in the long march of progress to a better world. There are beauties and richness of life for them and for all those who do not "live by bread alone." In the fields and the streams and the forests and the homes and the hills there are multiform sights and sounds for the noble band of listeners and seekers. But these beauties and truths are oblivious to most of us. The dishes, the stoves, the brooms, the plows and the hoes make only grain and flour and bread to the common man, but for others they make life itself. There is beauty in the fields and music in the woods and the homes and these give a special flavor and a special fragrance for those who know how to live. "Life," said the great Socrates, 'is a gift of nature, but beautiful living is a gift of wisdom." The riches of the scripture, of poetry and music and art are for those who have wisdom; they live beautifully. Their lives are the reflection of truth and beauty, abundant in the world and always about us, but unseen and unheard except by rare, sensitive and precious human souls. The child who puts his ear to the shell, the sensitive soul who sees that which is extraordinary in the commonplace has learned this truth: "Life is a gift of nature, but beautiful living is a gift of wisdom."