Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1892 "FoR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL NartTIONsS" ISABELLA OF CASTILE: Isabella's powerful mind at once grasped the geographical problem (presented to her by Columbus), but she was won more by the consideration that there might exist a people ignorant of the Christian religion and that to her might belong the honor, that through lending herself to the enterprise (the westward journey of Columbus) she would be the means of converting them to the faith in which she believed. —Phebe C. Young THE SPIRIT OF CRITICISM: Try and think that if you can find faults in your friend, how many more can she find in you. Just run over the list on your own side. Every one of us likes the woman who says pleasant things, and the saying of them really creates the feeling of them; if you keep at it long enough you will grow to see the best in everybody.—Ex. COLUMBUS... World-binder, bridger of the boundless seas, The conqueror and colossus of the waves, Who stood on meditation's starry height, Above the cluds that canopied the age No marvel; thou wert God's, not man's elect, And thou didst serve eternity, not time Should heaven prepare... A land of liberty —Bishop O. F. Whitney THE PRINCIPLES AND POWERS OF GOVERNMENT: No education is considered quite complete in modern times that has not been enriched by a broad general understanding of the principles and civil powers of the government under which the individual may live, and the duties of citizens toward that government. The exercise of authority, the making and administering of laws, restraint, control, direction and regulations, by the state of its citizens. How and where the state secures or derives its powers; and by learning the source and extent, know what the sacred nights of the individuals are. This applies to women as well as men, and no amount of merely ornamental accomplishments quite atones for the absence of the deep under strata of power and duty developed by the study of that science, upon which rests the entire fabric of civilization. } —Ellen Jakeman ADVERTISEMENT: The Woman's Co-operative Institution keeps on hand dress goods and trimmings, fancy articles and notions, books and stationery, equipose — waists.... Dress making in all its branches, millinery, latest styles, hats and bonnets cleaned and retrimmed, feathers curled, stamping done to order, buttons covered while you wait. RELIEF SOCIETY MEETING IN THE SIXTH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY: Counselor Giauque said "'the Relief Society is one of the grandest institutions on the earth. The world is patterning after us in these things. Societies and charitable institutions are in many parts of the world for the benefit of the poor. The teachers of our Relief Society everywhere are like angels of mercy, speaking words of comfort, ministering to the sick and needy, those who are sick need the faith and prayers of such, when the body is weak the mind is also weak and such need the faith of those who minister to them. Those who are called to preside need our faith and prayers. —E. W. Condie, Sec. Page 738 MBS. MILDRED JENSEN JOHNSON, Latter-day Saint farmwife, Rexburg, Idaho, placed second in the recent National Conservation Essay Contest conducted in connection with the convention of the National Association of Soil Conservation Districts, in Cleveland, Ohio. Mrs. Johnson's essay had previously placed first in the Idaho contest, and a recording of her own voice presenting the essay was given at the Ohio convention. RS. RAE ASHTON of Vernal, Utah, has been elected national president of the American Legion auxiliary. In a speech given after her election, Mrs. Ashton commented upon the importance of the Legion in American life, saying that fifty-five veterans are members of the United States Senate, 224 are members of the House of Representatives, and thirty are governors of the States. A festive homecoming parade and community celebration was given in honor of the Utah woman upon her return from the Legion convention in New York City in September. ORTHY BURGESS, in the biography Dream and Deed (University of Oklahoma Press) tells the life story of the Wellesley teacher, author, and poet, Katharine Lee Bates, who wrote "America the Beautiful."