[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature]
[Literature — Edgar Allan Poe — The Pathos of His Life and]

Folly to assert that the literature of any nation or age was ever injured by plain speaking on the part of critics. As Page 60 for American Letters, plain speaking about them is, simply, the one thing needed. They are in a condition of absolute quagmire (Southern Literary Messenger, July 1849). And Poe spoke plainly, indeed, as the following excerpt from a review testifies: Mr. Grattan [the author] has a bad habit, that of loitering in the road — of dallying and toying with his subject, as a kitten with a mouse — instead of grasping it firmly at once and eating it up without more ado. He takes up too much time in the anteroom. He is never done with his introductions... So that by the time he arrives at his main incidents there is nothing more to tell. He seems afflicted with that curious yet common perversity observed in garrulous old women—the desire of tantalizing by circumlocution.... If the greasy-looking lithograph here given as a frontispiece, be meant for Mr. Grattan, then is Mr. Grattan like nobody else — for the fact is, I never yet knew an individual with a wire wig, or the countenance of an under-done apple dumpling.... As a general rule, no man should put his own face in his own book. In looking at the author's countenance the reader is seldom in condition to keep his own (Southern Literary Messenger, April 1849). Prophet Without Honor Justly Poe might be described as having lived in the world, yet not of it. Although he is the one man in the English-speaking world who LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Pictur EDGAR ALLAN POE has achieved pre-eminence in the three literary realms of fiction, poetry, and criticism, still many adult Americans have always tended either merely to tolerate him, without really claiming him as one of their own, or to ignore part of him. But since it is just and inevitable that we admit his greatness as an American writer, it is equally just and inevitable that we face the life out of which his greatness came, that we may more fully appreciate and understand both the intent and achievement of his creations. Poe's Chronology Edgar Allan Poe was born January 19, 1809, to actor parents while their group was appearing in Boston. His grandfather, General David Poe, was quartermaster general during the American Revolution, and friend to LaFayette. Before he was three, 61 Poe's parents had separated and both had died. His mother died in Richmond, Virginia, where, out of pity, three wealthy matrons each took one of the three surviving children into their homes. Mr. John Allan, stern, practical Scotchman, had no children and desired none, but he yielded to the wishes of his younger wife and accepted Edgar, giving him Allan as his middle name. He provided Poe with excellent schooling in England and at the University of Virginia, but always resented him somewhat, though his wife was overly affectionate. First in his class at the university, Poe gambled to pay school expenses which he claimed Mr. Allan would not. 'They quarreled violently, and Edgar ran away to Boston. He published his first book of poems when he was eighteen, before enlisting as a private in the army. He arrived at home the day after Mrs. Allan's funeral, and entered West Point through Mr. Allan's influence, but soon asked permission to resign his appointment. When this was denied, he cut out enough classes to get himself discharged. He published his second book of poems and first prize-winning stories while living at the home of his aunt, Maria Poe Clemm, in Baltimore. When Poe was twenty-four he moved to Richmond to work full time on the staff of The Southern Literary Messenger, one of the most influential magazines of the day, soon becoming its editor. Mrs. Clemm and her daughter Virginia joined him there, and the next year he married Virginia, in her fourteenth year. 'Theirs was a most happy marriage, although Virginia, always delicate and sensitive, died 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 eleven years later. "Mother" Clemm lived with them until her daughter's death, then remained with her "adored Eddie" until his own death, in October 1849. The year following his marriage Poe moved his family to New York City, then to Philadelphia, where he soon became editor of Graham's Magazine. Having achieved success with his prose writings, he returned to New York City and for a time fulfilled his lifetime dream of editing his own magazine, but, when it failed, he moved his family to a humble cottage at Fordham, some miles outside the city, where their poverty became acute and Virginia died in 1847. Bewildered by grief and loneliness, Poe began lecturing widely. First he courted one widow in Lowell, Massachusetts, then proposed to another in Rhode Island. When a few months later their marriage plans were, by mutual consent, abandoned, he again attempted to find support for a new magazine he hoped to establish and edit. During a southern tour he met an old friend in Richmond, Virginia, and planned to marry her as soon as he could bring Mrs. Clemm from New York for the wedding. While on his way he suffered a mysterious catastrophe and was taken to a Baltimore hospital where he died four days later, on October 7, 1849. His death resulted not from "delirium tremens," as reported by Griswold (whom his attending physician, Dr. John J. Moran, defined as Poe's "avowed and personal enemy'), but from nervous prostration and the shock of having been beaten, robbed, and abandoned. In his A Defense of Edgar Allan Poe, published in 1885, Dr. Moran described in detail the sixteen hours preceding death when Poe was under his care, in rational consciousness save when he slept, and that he "did not die under the influence of any kind of intoxicating drink." Incensed at the malicious warping of the truth by Griswold, Poe's friends, N. P. Willis and George Graham, editor of Graham's Magazine, at once published defenses of Poe's character and reputation — in magazines, while Griswold's more extended "Memoir of Poe" appeared in every copy of Poe's works until late in the century, both in Europe and in this country. Several other friends published books in an attempt to correct the false picture which Griswold had made, but largely in vain. Griswold forged several letters, inserted and deleted words to change Poe's meaning and character, and so falsely accused Poe of duplicity in relation to his own charges of plagiarism against peaceloving Longfellow, that even Longfellow felt compelled to expose the falseness of Griswold's accusations. To maintain that Poe's private life was without flaw would be as untrue as were Griswold's errors and manipulations, for Poe was, on occasion, vain, sharp-tongued, and always intensely ambitious for success. As for drug addiction, a doctor testified that he was so unfamiliar with laudanum that when in a fit of depression he attempted using it, he didn't even know the proper dosage. He did drink excessively on occasions when his malnourished wife was dying or when sophisticated Bostonians walked out en' masse during his lecture, but he knew LESSON DEPARTMENT alcohol acted as a poison within him, and that half a glass of wine made him well-nigh insane, or, im Graham's words, "the least drop of wine, to most men a moderate stimulus, was to him literally the cup of frenzy." As for charges of insanity, Poe probably spoke truth when he said that "I was never teally insane, except on occasions where my heart was touched." Apparently, only two such _ periods occurred in his life: during the years of his wife's suffering and, intermittently, during the final days of his life. As Poe wrote, on January 4, 1848, "My enemies referred the insanity to the drink rather than the drink to the insanity." Particularly, after reading in Poe's stories more extended and gripping examples of this world of inward terror which so dominated his art, may we be willing to see how drinking was the effect rather than the cause. The editors of the most scholarly anthology of his writings (Alterton and Craig, Edgar Allan Poe, Representative Selections, American Book Company, 1934) write on page 543: "Of all the nonsense talked about Poe, and there has been much, none is perhaps greater than that which fails to see in him a man of fundamentally noble moral nature,' a statement which becomes more pertinent to his entire life and writings the more they are studied. Poe's first book of poems, titled Tammerlane and Other Poems was published in Boston in 1827. Most of these earlier poems reflect the disappointments and ambitions of youth and reveal the influence of English romantic poets, such as Coleridge and Byron. By 1831, when 63 another volume of his poetry appeared, which included the poems "To Helen," "Israfel," and "The City in the Sea," Poe had developed more sureness as a poet. The poem "To Helen" was, according to Poe, inspired by a school friend's mother who died when Poe was fifteen. Her kindness to the sensitive young boy caused him to speak of her as an angel to his forlorn and darkened nature. Yet in this poem ""I'o Helen" the idealized image is not flesh and blood, but a symbol of beauty in the land of heart's desire. Poe is representatively romantic in his portrayal of nostalgic yearning for a realm of serene beauty, in art, in myth, and in life, and in this poem the entire feeling is romantic, although the allusions and pictures are all classical. TO HELEN Helen, thy beauty is to me Like those Nicean barks of yore, That gently, o'er a perfumed sea, The weary, way-worn wanderer bore To his own native shore. On desperate seas long wont to roam, Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face, Thy Naiad airs have brought me home To the glory that was Greece And the grandeur that was Rome. Lo! In yon brilliant window-niche How statue-like I see thee stand, The agate lamp within thy hand! Ah, Psyche, from the regions which Are Holy-Land! "Annabel Lee," one of Poe's best known and best loved poems, supposedly refers to his own young wife Virginia who died at the age of twenty-four. (See text, page 455.) Written in 1849, the poem concludes with 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams Of the beautiful Annabel Lee; And the stars never rise, but I feel the bnght eyes Of the beautiful Annabel Lee: And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side Of my darling — my darling — my life and my bride, In her sepulchre there by the sea— In her tomb by the side of the sea. Next to "The Raven," Poe's most popular poem is "I'he Bells" which was much revised before Poe, in 1849, considered it complete. Many readers enjoy this poem for the tone and mood conveyed by sound and image. As the poem progresses, we become increasingly aware of words carefully selected for their particular music-tone. A unity of effect is achieved in each stanza by the use of descriptive words appropriately associated with a particular bell and its connotation. (See text, pp. 454455-) I Note that in stanza I, the silver bells of the sledge, with their tinkling, jingling sound are heard in the "icy air of night," while in stanza 3, alarum bells are loud, turbulent, brazen, and clamorous, and they clang into the "palpitating air." An interchange of any of these descriptive words would destroy the unity of effect Poe worked so carefully to create within each stanza. The poem must be read aloud to appreciate the music-tone of words and the vivid image. Spiritualism and mesmerism were current speculative interests of Poe's day, and Poe became somewhat interested in them as dramatic material for his art in story and verse. But the mysticism which more truly represents Poe was of a personal nature. It was refuge and adventure into the dark, mysterious regions of his inner self. No statement on his poetry, with its "indefinite," unattained beauty and its pathos, can be accurately made without taking into account the pathos of his sensitive and lonely life. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what ways do Poe's writings reflect the unfortunate circumstances and_loneliness of his life? 2. How do the conflicting judgments of critics affect our evaluation of Poe as man? As artist? 3. Which romantic qualities do you find in Poe's poetry? (See Preview.) She Mlothering Sree Christie Lund Coles The aspen, fragile as a girl, Barely emerged from childhood, stands A mothering tree to spruce and pine, And shields them with her slender hands. The sturdy evergreens begin Their gradual and steady climb Upon the eternal mountainside, Fast in their strength though slow in time, Until they attain their pointed height, Above the golden aspen tree — Green exclamations that declare The strength born from gentility. Social ae The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan WOMEN AND CHURCH ACTIVITY Lesson 6 — How Women Share in the Blessings of the Priesthood Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Tuesday, April 24, 1962 Objective: To increase our understanding of the way in which women participate in the blessings of the Priesthood. Priesthood is the divine commission for the operation of the Lord's Church. It is the right to officiate in God's name in all matters pertaining to the welfare of man under the plan of salvation. The major purpose of the plan is the eternal progressive welfare of human beings. The government of the Church is Priesthood in operation. Our Pionecr Women HE Church was restored through revelation and the authority of the Priesthood; but it was built and developed by men and women together. Often we speak of the strength of the men of this early period, forgetting the fact that in the pioneering period of this Church the strength of the women was a support to the men. 1. In the Beginning of Church Activities From the very beginning of the Church stress was placed on the importance of the family unit. The first years were full of sacrifice and suffering. 'The women had the allimportant task of holding the family together and supporting their husbands in their convictions of truth. The women endured the persecution and hardships without losing sight of their objectives, and family solidarity developed under these experiences. The teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith in regard to the eternal nature of the marriage covenant strengthened the family ties. The women accepted the persecution, hardships, and sacrifice with the determination to maintain the family structure. They were the developers of the influence that kept the spirit of the entire community on a durable basis. All during the wanderings of the saints the women were interested in the problems and suffering of one another and solved many of their difficulties through cooperative action. They gave courage to their husbands in the face of new trials and continued persecution. But even more important, the women were unwavering in their testimonies of the truthfulness of the gospel, and many took over the total family operation while their husbands filled missions for the Church. The strength of the Church today has been greatly aided by the strength of the mothers in this early period of trial. They taught their children the importance of the principles of the gospel. Most of them remained steadfast and true in the face of the most severe adversities. The mothers who had to provide the environment for the children Page 65 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 made it an environment of faith, hope, and love. The children of these pioneer homes, in general, grew up to be men and women of integrity and truth, who honored the Priesthood and gave to the Church the leadership that has led to its present progress. 2. First Organized Activity of Women in the Church The mothers of the Church, in addition to the operation of their own homes, extend their love and mercy to those in the community who are less fortunate than they. As early as 1842 the idea of combining time, materials, and the talents of the women to meet the needs of the workmen on the Nauvoo Temple grew to the point that the sisters planned to organize a Ladies Society. They submitted their plans to the Prophet Joseph who said:. This is not what you want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord, and He has something better for them.... Invite them all to meet me and a few of the brethren... Over my store next Thursday afternoon, and I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood (A Centenary of Relief Society, 1842-1942, page 14). He called the women together on Thursday, March 17, 1842, and organized the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo. The women of the Church tesponded enthusiastically to the new organization. It began with eighteen members and within two years it had grown to 1,341. It has continued to grow in importance in the lives of the people of the Church from then until the present day. The Relief Society's objectives under Priesthood guidance were the care of the poor, comfort to the sorrowing, and to save souls. The same objectives are listed for Priesthood quorums, to take care of the temporal, intellectual, and spiritual welfare of the quorum members and their families. The first Relief Society officers were aware of the importance of frequent personal contacts. In 1843 they organized "the necessity committee." The members of this committee, sixteen in number, were to discover the needs of each family and to accept contributions for the needy. 'This committee was the beginning of the visiting teacher program, still a most vital part of the Relief Society organization. The accomplishments of the Relief Society. Bear testimony to the faith, courage, vision, and industry of the women of the Church who have received "instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation" (A Centenary of Relief Society, 1842-1942, page 3). 3. Relief Society Services 'Today The Presidency of the Church and the Relief Society leadership have never lost sight of the original purpose of this greatest woman's organization. 'The distress and misfortune of the saints from Kirtland to Nauvoo and from Nauvoo to Salt Lake City, made lasting impressions as to the value of compassionate service of the women of the Church. There is still present in our society a great need for sympathetic understanding. Sickness, old age, poverty, death, and the tragedy of family failures make the need for LESSON DEPARTMENT compassionate service as demanding today as ever before. The faster our materialistic development is and the more dense our population becomes, the greater the need of benevolent service and sympathetic understanding. In this day the Priesthood has organized a Welfare Program designed to help meet people's needs through providing opportunities for work in conjunction with the united efforts of friends and neighbors as members of the Church organizations. It is an expression of the highest type of co-operative action. Where it has been developed, the men produce materials and foods, and the women prepare the materials and preserve the food. 'The over-all "aim of the program is to help the people to help themselves" (Welfare Plan Handbook of Instructions, page 1). The educational aspect of the Relief Society has been a medium of great stimulation to the sisters of the Church. The Relief Society provides a constant intellectual challenge to their membership to improve their minds to meet the requirements of a woman's function in today's world. The organization provides lessons in all areas of participation required of women, with special emphasis on strengthening testimonies, on motherhood and homemaking, at the same time providing a rich experience for all. Priesthood Provides Benefits for All Members The purpose of Priesthood is to improve all men and women, bringing them toward the perfection of God, the Eternal Father. "For behold, this is my work and my glory 67 — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). 1. The Performance of Ordinances Is a Blessing 'Through the Priesthood We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof (Fifth Article of Faith). Many of us are inclined to take the most important and_ sacred things for granted. Membership in this Church is basic to all the blessings the gospel promises. Yet too often the eighth birthday celebration is emphasized more than baptism, the attending of Church, and the meaning of membership. Those who come to the waters of baptism through conversion often are more conscious and appreciative of this important event than the child born in the Church. Every woman who is a member of this Church shares in the blessings of the Church through the functioning of the Priesthood. Jesus pointed out that we cannot enter the kingdom of heaven unless we have been born of the water and of the spirit. No one can perform the ordinances of baptism and confirmation without holding the Priesthood. Each Sabbath day we are reminded, encouraged, and permitted to renew our covenants with the Lord through the sacrament, a Priesthood ordinance. As a matter of fact, the Priesthood is a constant source of blessing to every member of the Church each day. A woman has full rights to the benefits of the administration to the sick. Often it is the faith of 68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 I SACRED MUSIC FOR! THREE PART I LADIES CHORUSES I I I I I I i iad COME, YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER — Madsen.20 ey GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH — Schreiner _ «a0 — GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD — Madsen ---- 25 ead IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS — Madsen.25 _— INCLINE YOUR EAR — Wilkes.25 _——— LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY — Stephens.20 =. LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS — Elgar --- 25 PA LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER — Verdi - _ LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE — Madsen.20 —_—. OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 _.. THE 23rd PSALM — Schubert.25 Music Sent on Approval I I I I I I l I I l I I I I! L I I I l..¢.. IN THY FORM — Madsen.20! I! I l I I I I I I I l I I l I l I Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. [J On Approval CL] Charge! [J Money Enclosed H Name Address; City & State 15 E. Ist South I 'salt Lake City 11, Utah I the women that initiates this ordinance and supports the Priesthood in its performance. The patriarch, who has a special Priesthood function, is available to membership of the Church to provide them with a patriarchal blessing of enlightenment, encouragement, and clarification as to what course in life will bring the greatest accomplishment, the most satisfaction, and which will make possible the opportunity for exaltation in the presence of our Eternal Father. 2. Unlimited Possibility of Growth In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 93:36, it says "The glory of God is intelligence..." and in Section 131:6, it says: "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." The quest for knowledge, faith, and love is equally as important to the woman as to the man who holds the Priesthood. She, too, is given her free agency and placed upon this earth to gain experience and progress toward perfection. Her understanding of life here and hereafter is of vital importance in giving intelligent direction to her family and for her own exaltation. Here again the Priesthood is responsible for and is the source of blessings. The Call to Service One of the richest blessings to a woman comes through the privilege of service in the Church. Every officer in the Church is called - by proper authority and commissioned by this authority. In the ward the bishop calls and commissions the worthy persons to their particular responsibilities. Every office andcalling in the Church is important, LESSON DEPARTMENT and to the individual receiving the assignment it is the most important assignment in the Church. No one else can do the work you are called to do while you are in the office. Your effective performance of the duties and responsibilities of your office gives strength to the whole organization. 'The privilege comes through the Priesthood, and _blessings come from your devotion to duty. We have stated before that the government of the Church is the Priesthood in action. Every office in the Church is therefore, to a degree, Priesthood work. As_ the Church has grown there has been a need for auxiliary help. As the term implies, the auxiliaries are assisting organizations to the Priesthood, but subject to, and under the direction of the Priesthood. The officers and teachers in the auxiliaries play an important part in the teaching of the gospel. But, as has been pointed out, teaching the gospel to all the members is a major responsibility of the Priesthood quorums. There are assignments to the women in the work that is assigned to the Priesthood. Women work on the genealogical committees and do both research and temple work for the dead. The missionary work which is to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people also uses the women of the Church. They are an effective part of the missionary program in teaching the gospel to people of the Many nations. Service in the Church is a blessing in and of itself. Through Church work you are serving the Lord by serving your fellow men. It tends to Teduce selfishness, and by doing 69 things for others it reduces tensions in your own life. We tend to love whom we serve. 'The Lord emphasized this to Peter when he asked i lovest thou me.. ' and Peter's answer was "yea " Then he said "Feed my sheep.' ' This he repeated, giving emphasis to the connection between, and the importance of service and love of God (John 21:15-17). Women's Service, a Strength to the Church The activity of the women in the Church program is a manifestation of dedication to a great cause. This is demonstrated by a situation in the mission field where three wonderful Maori ladies, old in years, but vigorous in the love of the gospel, held a little branch together for many years until the Priesthood holders were regenerated. These faithful sisters did everything but the ordinances, and they guided the young Aaronic Priesthood members in the care and administration of the sacrament. Many times the women of the wards and stakes have provided the activity necessary to the success of Priesthood projects. 'Through the efforts of the women in the home, the men are constantly built up and encouraged. They care for the children, assist their men in _ projects and programs, and provide leadership for the auxiliary organizations. The blessings in store for the women of the Church are limited only by the efforts they put forth to build the kingdom. Every effort they put forth in gaining knowledge, in exercising faith, and in performance of duty is a step toward perfection, and every step toward 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 Hawaiian Tour February Southern Temple Tour February Mexican Tour Leaving early March Mexico City, Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins Northwest Banff-Lake Louise Tour Including World's Fair at Seattle leaving June 23 Ask about our ALASKA and HILL CUMORAH TOURS ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue SALT LAKE CITY 3, UTAH Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Rel

ief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles 39 300 to 600 miles 0000 45 600 to 1000 miles 54 1000 to 1400 miles.64 1400 to 1800 miles - 20002..0. 76 Over 1800 miles 2.000000.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah perfection adds blessings. 'The Lord is mindful of those who serve him. ",.. I, the Lord, am merciful and gracious unto those who... Serve me in righteousness and in truth unto the end. Great shall be their reward and eternal shall be their glory" (D & C 76:5-6). Thoughts for Discussion 1. Define Priesthood. 2. In what ways does the woman share the blessings of the Priesthood? 3. What effect can a wife have on the effective functioning of her husband in his Priesthood calling? Explain. 4. In what Church work assigned to the Priesthood can a woman participate? To what extent? So a Child Whe Grew Dorothy J]. Roberts Tonight there is no place to turn In thought for solace or for rest. All the things I would forget, Now the mind remembers best. There is no roadway of return To bring you back through time and place, No way to pare the change of years, To fill the need gone from your face. Time tore your simple wants aside, The little needs your eyes confessed. Now though I long, the vanished years Refuse you what my heart possessed. This night is one to bear the scourge, The whiplash of an old regret, Until the wanted grace is learned, Until the waning moon has set; Till day brings other seeking eyes, And other fingers that implore, A chance to change the stone for bread, To serve it through love's open door. Chase Shose Winter Woes Janet W. Breeze NE little, two little, three little overshoes — but you can't find number four? Keep the children's overshoes and mittens handy and also out of the way by making good use of that multiple skirt hanger. Simply cover an area of your back porch or basement wall with clear plastic to protect the paint from mud and water. Next, hang the skirt hanger on a good heavy screw eye inserted in the wall. Clip mittens at the top (in pairs snapped together) and overshoes at the bottom. Large family? Use more than one hanger. Small family? Try clipping hats and scarves where they can easily be found. When summer rolls around, use your hanger for garden gloves and swim caps. Plastic bags can substitute for overshoes ina pinch. Put the bag over your child's foot and hold tight with an elastic at the ankle. Slip a glass marble in the finger of those holey gloves for easier mending. The button eyes and nose on that prize snowman won't keep falling off if they're anchored with toothpicks. Gives you the ultimcte in fingertip total electric living now and for years to come. SA £16 San Q Oy ° EAL - m When the future is allelectric, why buy anything but a Gold Medallion Home? UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Buy now from your dealer Dear Fmend Florence S. Glines If friends like you are here Through all my mortal hours, They'll give me comfort dear And strew my path with flowers. If I can always measure To the treasure in your soul And see myself reflected, I will have reached my goal. The things that brought us near Seemed sad and hard to bear, But proved a blessing without peer Because I found you there. I pray that God will bless you Through all your mortal days, And I will find you true When we walk eternal ways. Page 7} Hawaiian Tour in January and February Northwest and L. D. S. Pageant Tours for 1962 Ask about our World's Fair Tours MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East SALT LAKE CITY 11, UTAH 486-1601 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Birthday Congratulations