[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Rain | Author: Holmes]
[Rain Song — Second Prize Poem Bernice Burton Holmes]
By  his  own  hand.    She  drained  her  cup  alone. 
She  reaches  down  the  corridor  of  years, 
She  mourns  with  grieving  mothers  of  all  lands; 
Wherever  hearts  are  broken,  bathed  with  tears 
For  children's  sins,  her  tragic  shadow  stands. 
Page  14

BERNICE   BURTON   HOLMES 
Second  Prize  Poem 
iKain  Song 
Beinice  Burton  Holmes 
I  shall  miss  the  rain  more  than  the  snow, 
I  shall  miss  the  rain  most  when  I  go. 
The  snow  is  feathery,  deep,  and  white; 
But  the  rain  will  talk  to  me  all  the  night, 
The  rain  will  tell  what  I  want  to  know. 
I  shall  miss  the  rain  most  when  I  go. 
Snow  is  voiceless  and  does  not  talk. 
Rain  will  whisper;  rain  will  walk 
Upon  the  roof  in  dark  of  night; 
Rain  will  silver  the  evening  light. 
I  hear  the  silvery  tongues  of  rain; 
They  talk  to  me  through  the  windowpane. 
Far  off  the  thunder,  dull,  aloof; 
But  rain  dances  crystal  feet  on  the  roof. 
I  have  missed  the  great  white  shawls  of  the  snow; 
But  I  shall  miss  the  rain  most  when  I  go. 
Page  15

EVA  WILLES  \\^ANGSGAARD 
Third  Prize  Poem 
uiecess  —  School  for  the    Jjeaf 
Eva  WilJes  Wangsga^id 
Here  children  play  denied  the  joy  of  sounds, 
Where  thunder  falls  as  silently  as  snow. 
They've  never  heard  the  milkman  on  his  rounds. 
The  clink  of  bottles,  hurried  steps  tiptoe. 
They  cannot  hear  a  hymn  or  lullaby, 
A  mother's  voice  wrapped  softly  round  a  name, 
A  night  train's  whistle  or  a  coyote's  cry, 
For  town  or  country  silence  is  the  same. 
The  thud  of  ball  on  bat,  the  lilt  of  laughter 
Received  in  silence  colorless  as  frost 
Are  subtle  arguments  for  what  comes  after, 
Some  heaven  where  no  joy  is  ever  lost, 
Where  man's  equality  is  not  belied 
And  heaven  grants  each  child  what  earth  denied. 
Page  16

Miranda  Snow  Walton,  in  expressing  her  happiness  as  a  winner  in  the  Ehza  R. 
Snow  Poem  Contest,  describes  the  contest  as  "a  goal  for  me  to  work  for." 
Now  a  resident  of  El  Monte,  California,  NIrs.  Walton  was  born  in  the  upper 
Bear  Ri\er  country  of  Uintah  County,  Wyoming.  "As  a  girl  I  knew  all  the  rigors  of 
pioneer  life.  In  1914  my  parents  moved  to  Evanston,  Wyoming.  I  was  one  of  the 
ten  children  of  Henry  Brooks  Snow  and  Anna  Danielson.  The  grandparents  on  both 
sides  were  converts  to  the  Church,  my  Snow  grandparents  coming  to  Utah  in  1851.  I 
married  James  W^alton,  a  Rich  County,  Utah,  attorney,  and  lived  in  Woodruff,  Rich 
County,  for  many  years,  where  my  three  children  were  born.  Later,  we  li\ed  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  and  now  in  California.  I  am  a  member  of  the  North  El  Monte  Ward, 
\\"cst  Covina  Stake.  I  ha\  e  worked  in  e\'ery  organization  open  to  women  in  the  Church. 
Genealogy  is  now  my  principal  interest.  While  living  in  Woodruff,  I  was  active  in 
the  Parent-Teachers  Association,  Daughters  of  the  Utah  Pioneers,  and  in  4-H  Club 
work.  I  was  also  a  stake  missionary.  My  children  are  \'ivian  (Mrs.  Delbert  Owens), 
Jack,  and  Claude  Walton.  I  have  four  grandchildren.  At  an  early  age  I  became  in- 
terested in  writing  poetry  and  it  has  been  an  abiding  interest  throughout  my  life." 
Beinice  Burton  Holmes  was  born  in  Afton,  WVoming,  a  daughter  of  Arthur  F. 
and  Kittie  Dixon  Burton.  She  was  graduated  from  the  Latter-day  Saints  University, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  and  received  her  B.S.  Degree  from  the  University  of  Wyoming. 
She  has  done  post-graduate  work  at  the  University  of  Utah,  Harvard,  and  the  University 
of  Southern  California.  \Miile  attending  the  Uni\ersity  of  Wyoming,  she  recei\ed 
two  poetry  prizes  and  uas  a  member  of  Phi  Upsilon  Omicron,  and  American  College 
Quill  Club.  Her  poems  have  appeared  in  many  poetry  magazines  and  religious  publi- 
cations. 
Her  husband.  Dr.  LaNLar  L.  Holmes,  teaches  at  Humboldt  State  College,  Areata, 
California,  where  the  family  resides.  Bart,  their  eldest  son,  served  a  mission  in  the 
Central  Atlantic  States,  and  is  first  counselor  in  the  bishopric  of  Areata  Ward.  Trilby 
is  secretary  and  drama  director  in  the  Y.M.M.LA.  in  the  Centinela  Ward,  Inglewood, 
California.  Dan  is  a  missionary  in  the  Central  British  Mission,  and  Roger,  the  youngest 
son,  is  ward  clerk  in  Areata,  and  is  attending  Humboldt  College,