[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Award | Author: Contest]
Page 17 Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1961 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1961. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Mary Ek Knowles, Ogden, Utah, for her story "Ten Dollars Will Buy Many Things." The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Sarah O. Moss, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "Splendor Before Dawn." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Linda S. Fletcher, Tacoma, Washington, for her story "Cheshire Cat." Mrs. Knowles is a third-time winner in this contest; Mrs. Moss is also a winner for the third time; and Mrs. Fletcher is a first-time winner in the story contest. The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1962. Sixty-nine stories were entered in the contest for 1961, with six of the Page 18 entries coming from countries outside the United States, including England, Northern Ireland, Australia, Canada, and Hong Kong. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. 'The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board also reserves the nght to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. The General Board also acknowl edges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest.