[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sow the Field With Roses — Chapter 1 | Author: Margery S. Stewart]
Sow  the  Field  With  Roses 
Chapter  i 
Margery  S.  Stewart 
SHE    
was    lost.     She    was    lost  a  view  of  the  sea.     But,  with  the 
somewhere     in     the     Malibu  sun  gone  down  over  the  ridge,  it 
mountains,  in  country  new  to  was  difficult  to  tell  which  way  was 
her,    on    terrain    inhospitable    and  west. 
bleak.     Nina   Karsh   reined   Domi-  The  canyon  was  narrowing,   the 
nick  in,  and  the  mare  came  to  a  hillsides  growing  more  steep.     Per- 
dancing  halt.     Nina  braced  against  haps  she  should  go  back  the  way 
the  jolts  and  patted  the  damp  mane,  she  had  come,  but  there  had  been 
Dominick  whinnied,  pleading  to  be  cross   paths   here   and   there.     She 
allowed  the  reins.    Nina  rubbed  the  noticed  in  the  hillside  ahead  a  nar- 
arching,    golden    neck.     ''You    are  row,    twisting    path.     She    coaxed 
beautiful,   Dominick,   but   you   are  Dominick  toward  it.    Dominick  was 
not  clever,  and  I  do  not  think  you  not  eager,  but  he  was  amiable, 
know  the  way  back  any  more  than  I  ''I  shall  most  certainly  buy  you," 
do."  Nina  promised,  ''and  you  and  I  will 
Her  voice  was  pushed  against  her  hve  on  that  absurd  hilltop  and  make 
by  the  silence.     Nina  took  off  her  it    beautiful    for   Danny    when    he 
gloves  and  looked  about.  comes  home  this  summer.     I  shall 
There  are  different  ways  of  being  learn  to  live  there,"  she  continued 
lost,  she  thought.     Within   myself  briskly. 
I   have  been   lost  —  since  Father  But    at    once    all    her    defenses 
died,  since  Laura  and  David  moved  crumbled,  as  they  had  a  habit  of 
to  Milwaukee,  and  terribly  lost  since  doing,  and  she  found  herself  crying 
Danny  went  away.    The  thought  of  inwardly,     Danny!     Danny!     Why 
her  nephew  made  him  rise  in  the  don't  you  write?     Are  you  so  glad 
brush,  a  tall  and  vital  mirage.  to  be  gone  from  me,  then?    Was  it 
A  fox  yipped  in  the  underbrush,  lonely  and   awful   for  you   all   the 
down  in  the  canyon  a  heavier  body  years   of  being  brought   up  by  an 
crackled   its  way.     Nina   trembled,  aunt   instead   of   a   mother   and   a 
Who  would  know  if  anything  hap-  father?     I  tried,  oh,  Danny,  how  I 
pened  to  her?    How  vulnerable  she  tried, 
was  in  her  loneliness.  The  years  seized  at  her,  Danny  on 
She  looked  about.    She  had  been  roller  skates,   then  a  bicycle,  then 
so  engrossed   in   her  problems,   so  the  car.     Danny  with  the  Mother 
busy  thinking  of  Danny  and  won-  Goose  books,  and  then  the  Tarzan 
dering  what  he  was  doing,  and  if  he  books,  and  the  science  fiction,  and 
were  happy  at  the  medical  school,  suddenly    nothing    but    the    sober 
that  she  must  have  come  miles  in-  tomes  of  anatomy  and  science,  Lat- 
land  without  noticing.    She  scanned  in  and  German.  .  .  .  "I've  decided 
the  hills  about  her.     If  she  could  to  be  a  doctor  ...  as  my  father  was." 
just  get  to  the  top  of  one  and  find  Fiercely  telling  her  this,  as  if  she 
Page  30

sow  THE  FIELD  WITH  ROSES 
31 
would  snatch  his  desire  from  him. 
She  hadn't  wanted  to  do  that  at 
all.  She  had  only  wanted  to  help 
him  achieve  his  desire.  But  Danny 
had  gone  alone  into  the  world  of 
medicine.  He  had  closed  the  door 
between  them.  He  wanted  to  walk 
the  path  by  himself,  which,  after  all, 
was  only  a  normal  desire.  Only  .  .  . 
only  it  left  her  so  suddenly  empty. 
She  had  made  Danny  her  whole  life. 
The  earth  is  treacherous  by  the 
sea,  given  to  sudden  slides.  Domi- 
nick  plunged  on  the  slipping  earth, 
rocks  rattled  past  them.  Nina  held 
the  reins  lightly.  What  a  dolt  she 
had  been  to  ride  so  far  without 
thought  of  where  she  was  going. 
Dominick  climbed  up  the  steep 
slope,  picked  her  way  over  a  barbed 
wire  fence  that  had  been  cut  and 
trampled.  Nina  sighed  with  relief 
as  they  left  the  edge  of  the  gully, 
where  the  earth  crumbled  under  the 
horse's  hoofs.  She  took  a  deep 
breath  and  looked  »about  her,  and 
saw  that  the  sun  was  almost  lost  in 
the  sea.  It  would  be  dark  very  soon 
even  here  on  the  hilltop.  She  saw, 
to  her  dismay,  that  she  should  have 
climbed  the  other  side  of  the  gully 
for  the  great  chasm  was  now  be- 
tween her  and  the  coast. 
CHE  lifted  her  head  to  the  sudden 
sound  of  galloping  hoofs. 
Dominick  wheeled  in  the  direction 
of  the  sound.  Two  men  rode  hard 
toward  them.  Against  her  will  and 
her  quick  pride,  Nina  felt  a  wave 
of  fear.  The  men  did  not  look 
friendlv. 
There  were  two  of  them.  The 
taller  of  the  pair  reached  her  first. 
He  was  a  great,  gaunt  rock  of  a 
man  with  a  canned  granite  face  and 
extraordinary  eyes.  The  eyes,  pierc- 
ing her  own,  were  gray  and  chill. 
His  hair,  under  the  dusty  black  hat, 
was  red,  as  were  the  hairs  on  the 
backs  of  his  hands.  Something 
familiar  in  the  turn  of  his  face 
caught  Nina. 
''You  are  Tomas  Novarro?"  She 
looked  from  him  to  the  wide  sweep 
of  land  and  mountain,  gully  and 
plain.  'Tou  own  all  of  it.  ...  I 
was  just  reading.  .  .  ." 
Novarro  swung  off  his  mount  and 
knelt  by  the  trampled  fence.  He 
picked  up  a  strand  and  eyed  her  ac- 
cusingly.    'Tou  did  this?" 
''Of  course  not.  I  wouldn't  know 
how  to  cut  a  fence." 
His  aide  galloped  up  and  stared 
suspiciously  at  Nina.  He  clambered 
down  from  his  horse  and  went  to 
kneel  beside  Tomas  Novarro.  To- 
gether they  examined  the  fence  and 
the  ground.  'This  is  the  third  time, 
Mr.  Novarro." 
"It  was  done  by  a  crowd."  Tomas 
Novarro  stood  up  angrily.  'Look  at 
their  footprints.  I  think  it  was  part 
of  the  rioters  at  the  beach.  Boys!" 
He  turned  to  glare  at  Nina.  "What 
business  do  you  have  up  here,  any- 
way?   This  is  private  land!    Mine!" 
Nina  smiled  in  what  she  hoped 
was  a  winning  way.  "I'm  lost.  I 
had  to  climb  up  from  the  gully  to 
see  where  I  was." 
"Where  do  you  live?"  he  de- 
manded. 
She  was  forced  to  confess,  "I'm 
not  terribly  sure.  I  just  moved  into 
the  house.  The  agent  told  me  it 
was  one  of  yours." 
The  two  men  consulted  each  oth- 
er wordlessly.  The  aide  snapped  his 
fingers.  "Your  grandmother's  house." 
He  looked  coldly  at  Nina.  "It  is  a 
small  house,"  he  stated,  "with  much 
Bougainvillaea,  and  a  bell?" 
Nina  sighed  with  relief.  "Exact- 
ly,"   She  took  up  the  reins  briskly,