[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Walton]
They cannot hear a hymn or lullaby, A mother's voice wrapped softly round a name, A night train's whistle or a coyote's cry, For town or country silence is the same. The thud of ball on bat, the lilt of laughter Received in silence colorless as frost Are subtle arguments for what comes after, Some heaven where no joy is ever lost, Where man's equality is not belied And heaven grants each child what earth denied. Page 16 Miranda Snow Walton, in expressing her happiness as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, describes the contest as "'a goal for me to work for." Now a resident of El Monte, California, Mrs. Walton was born in the upper Bear River country of Uintah County, Wyoming. "As a girl I knew all the rigors of pioneer life. In 1914 my parents moved to Evanston, Wyoming. I was one of the ten children of Henry Brooks Snow and Anna Danielson. The grandparents on both sides were converts to the Church, my Snow grandparents coming to Utah in 1851. I married James Walton, a Rich County, Utah, attorney, and lived in Woodruff, Rich County, for many years, where my three children were born. Later, we lived in Salt Lake City, and now in California. I am a member of the North El Monte Ward, West Covina Stake. I have worked in every organization open to women in the Church. Genealogy is now my principal interest. While living in Woodruff, I was active in the Parent-Teachers Association, Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, and in 4-H Club work. I was also a stake missionary. My children are Vivian (Mrs. Delbert Owens ), Jack, and Claude Walton. I have four grandchildren. At an early age I became interested in writing poetry and it has been an abiding interest throughout my life." Bernice Burton Holmes was born in Afton, Wyoming, a daughter of Arthur F'. And Kittie Dixon Burton. She was graduated from the Latter-day Saints University, Salt Lake City, Utah, and received her B. S. Degree from the University of Wyoming. She has done post-graduate work at the University of Utah, Harvard, and the University of Southern California. While attending the University of Wyoming, she received two poetry prizes and was a member of Phi Upsilon Omicron, and American College Quill Club. Her poems have appeared in many poetry magazines and religious publications. Her husband, Dr. LaMar L. Holmes, teaches at Humboldt State College, Arcata, California, where the family resides. Bart, their eldest son, served a mission in the Central Atlantic States, and is first counselor in the bishopric of Arcata Ward. Trilby is secretary and drama director in the Y. M. M. LA. In the Centinela Ward, Inglewood, California. Dan is a missionary in the Central British Mission, and Roger, the youngest son, is ward clerk in Arcata, and is attending Humboldt College. Mrs. Holmes has been a teacher in the Wyoming schools, and in Utah and California. At present she is teaching in Eureka, California. Her Church work includes much genealogical research, and she has been active in the various auxiliary organizations for many years. Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, a well-known and gifted poet, and many times a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, writes: "IT was born and educated through high school in Lehi, Utah. I was graduated from the University of Utah Normal School and taught two years in Lehi. I married David Wangsgaard and spent two years in Mount Pleasant, Utah, where Mr. Wangsgaard was a high school teacher. We spent twenty summers and two winters in Huntsville, Utah, Mr. Wangsgaard's home town, where he went into the farming and cattle raising business with his two brothers. 'Three children were born to us: Dee, who earned the rank of captain in World War IJ and now has an insurancy agency in Logan, Utah; Reid, who is in the household engineering business in Logan, and who served three terms in the Utah State Legislature; and Genee, who is the wife of D. E. Evans, D. D. S., in Smithfield, Utah. All of the children are graduates of the Utah State University. There are _ living grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Mr. Wangsgaard died in 1946. "IT began writing in 1936, and have had poems published extensively in many magazines in the United States, Canada, England, and India. I received, in 1961, a citation, with a hundred dollar award, from The Lyric, long-established, all-poetry magazine in Christianburg, Virginia, for poetry achievement. I have had five books of poetry published, as well as many articles and stories."