[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Color | Author: Magazine]
[Color Comes to Inside Pages of the Relief Society Magazine]
Color  Transparency  by  Josef  Muench 
Frontispiece:  Winter  in  the  Wasatch  Mountains.  Utah 
Photograph  by  Hal  Rumel 
Cover  Design  by  Evan  Jensen 
Cover  Lithncrapl>pd   m  FuM  Color  by   Drscrrf    Npws-  Prf

I  Lew    LJears   (greeting 
nnHE  General  Board  of  Relief  Society  sends  warm  and  loving  greetings 
to  our  sisters  throughout  the  world.  Our  prayer  for  each  of  you  is 
that  joy,  happiness,  and  prosperity  will  be  with  you  in  the  new  year.  Our 
thoughts  are  not  only  of  prosperity  in  material  things  but  that  all  might 
prosper  in  adding  to  stores  of  spiritual  treasures. 
May  you  prosper  in  your  desire  to  be  better,  more  devoted  wives, 
sweeter,  more  understanding  mothers,  and  harder  working,  more  dedicated 
handmaidens  in  the  kingdom. 
May  your  homes  be  warm  with  love  and  lighted  by  faith.  May 
your  hearts  rejoice  in  the  goodness  of  your  children.  May  your  every 
act  be  keyed  by  kindness  and  your  neighbors  blessed  by  your  thoughtful- 
ness. 
May  your  courage  enable  you  to  surmount  trials  and  obstacles.  May 
your  heart  and  mind  be  alert  to  ways  your  life  and  the  lives  of  members 
of  your  family  can  be  made  more  beautiful. 
May  your  love  of  freedom  and  the  great  gift  of  personal  free  agency 
lead  you  to  help  in  prospering  the  cause  of  peace  on  earth. 
May  you  find  strength  in  your  religion  and  feel  the  security  of  perfect 
faith  and  trust  in  our  Father  in  heaven. 
May  we  all  accept  the  opportunity  a  new  year  affords  to  begin  anew,  to 
further  resolve  to  live  righteously  in  accordance  with  the  commandments, 
and  to  give  the  service  that  will  prosper  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  his 
Church.

Qjrom    I  Lear  and  QJc 
ar 
The  Clark  Branch  was  organized  in 
May  1961  as  a  branch  of  the  Southern 
Far  East  Mission.  We  are  located  about 
sixty -five  miles  north  of  Manila,  at  Clark 
Air  Base.  Most  of  our  members  are  mili- 
tary personnel  and  civilians  working  for  the 
government  here,  but  we  do  have  six  Fili- 
pino members,  with  prospects  for  several 
more  in  the  near  future.  We  are  sure  that 
the  addition  of  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine to  the  San  Fernando  Library  a  local 
Filipino  library  will  assist  in  this  work 
and  will  be  appreciated  by  the  Fihpino 
people. 
—Paul  H.  Sharp 
Branch  President 
Clark  Air  Base 
Philippine  Islands 
The  ReJiei  Society  Magazine  has 
brought  me  much  happiness,  and  I  enjoy 
thoroughly  the  messages  contained  within 
the  covers  of  this  wonderful  and  informa- 
tive book.  Every  day  I  am  more  and 
more  thankful  for  the  knowledge  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  as  a  family  are 
thankful  for  the  servants  who  came  to  us 
just  three  years  ago  with  the  message 
of  the  everlasting  gospel. 
—Norma  E.  McGill 
Nitro,  West  Virginia 
My  husband  and  I  both  are  very  much 
pleased  with  our  beautiful  ReUef  Society 
Magazine,  especially  the  beautiful  covers. 
— Mrs.  Peggy  A.  Nyman 
Kalamazoo,  Michigan 
Several  years  ago,  my  daughter,  Mary 
Ober,  of  Alhambra,  California,  sent  her 
old  ReUef  Society  Magazines  to  a  young 
Chinese  Filipino  schoolteacher,  Aurora 
Ang  Fan,  in  the  Philippines.  These  were 
greeted  with  such  appreciation  and  acclaim 
that  I  am  now  dispatching  mine,  I  hope, 
in  time  for  Christmas.  They  help  the 
students  to  read  English  and  do  missionary 
work  for  the  Church. 
— Mrs.  G.  A.  McCrimmon 
Seal  Beach,  California 
I  want  to  thank  you  for  the  article  on 
books  and  reading  for  young  children 
("The  Precious  Words,  July  1961,  by 
May  C.  Hammond).  I  consider  Mrs. 
Hammond  to  be  my  friend,  and  through 
her  years  of  study  and  teaching,  she  has 
gleaned  much  knowledge  about  the  field 
of  children's  literature. 
— Mary  Lee  Smoot 
Dallas,  Texas 
I  enjoy  The  ReUef  Society  Magazine 
very  much,  especially  the  stories.  I  am  a 
convert  to  the  Church  for  nine  years  now, 
and  a  new  citizen  of  this  wonderful  land 
of  the  Lord  since  the  8th  of  August.  We 
have  not  had  much  education  in  schools, 
but  life  itself  has  educated  us.  I  send 
you  my  love. 
— Mrs.  Johanna  Van  de  Coolwvk 
San  Francisco,  California 
Being  a  constant  subscriber  to  The  Re- 
hef  Society  Magazine  for  over  twenty-eight 
years,  I  have  learned  to  love  the  great 
spiritual  uplift  of  the  Magazine.  The 
courses  of  study  have  been  arranged  by
