[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: New | Author: Sustained]
New Presiding Bishopric Sustained THE PRESIDING BISHOPRIC Left to right: Bishop Robert L. Simpson; Presiding Bishop John H. Vandenberg; Bishop Victor L. Brown. New Presiding Bishopric was called by the First Presidency and sustained at the 131st Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, September 30, 1961. John H. Vandenberg was sustained to succeed Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin; Robert L. Simpson and Victor L. Brown were chosen as counselors. 'They succeed Bishop Thorpe B. Isaacson and Bishop Carl W. Buehner. As vice-chairman of the Church Building Committee, in charge of finances and clerical work, Bishop Vandenberg has had wide experience in executive and administrative work. He served as a counselor in the Denver Stake Presidency, and as mission president in the same stake. He was for three years a missionary in the Netherlands, and has served in numerous positions in the Priesthood and in Church auxiliary organizations. At the time of his call to be Presiding Bishop, he was a counselor in the Ensign Stake Presidency. Bishop Vandenberg and his wife Rena Stok Vandenberg are the parents of two daughters, Mrs. Lenore V. Mendenhall of Salt Lake City, Utah, and Mrs. Norine V. Francis of Twin Butte, Alberta, Canada. Bishop Simpson recently returned from New Zealand, where he served as mission president for three years. He had previously spent three years in New Zealand as a missionary (1937-1940). Upon his return to his home in California from this mission, he became a member of the Inglewood Ward Bishopric and served as M. I. A. Superintendent in Inglewood Stake. He is a graduate of Yale University and served as a captain in the Army Air Corps Training Command in World War II. At the time of his call as President of the New Zealand Mission, he was supetvisor in the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company's accounting dePage 8 NEW PRESIDING BISHOPRIC SUSTAINED 9 partment in Inglewood. Bishop Simpson and his wife Jelaire Chandler Simpson have three children, Steven, Christine, and Robert. Bishop Brown is a native of Cardston, Canada. After graduating from the University of Utah, he became associated with United Air Lines, in 1940. He was an executive for this company in Chicago at the time of his call to the Presiding Bishopric. His many Church positions have included ward bishop, member of a stake M. I. A. Presidency, and counselor in the stake presidency while living in Denver, Colorado. Bishop Brown and his wife Lois Kjar, of Salt Lake City, are the parents of five children, Victor, Gerald, Joanne, Patricia, and Stephen. She New Year Viola Ashton Candland What can the new year mean to me? A golden opportunity, A gift of time from God above To grow in wisdom and in love. What can the new year bring to me? A sense of true humility, A love of God, an urge to pray, To draw near unto him each day. What can the new year bring to me? More strength to meet adversity, A lamp of faith to light the way Of loved ones, lest they go astray. I hope the new year lets me see My great responsibility To live and teach the gospel plan And foster brotherhood in man. I hope it has in store for me More tolerance for humanity, More tact to guide the errant youth, More diligence in seeking truth. I pray the new year lets me know The joy that day by day will grow, If I but strive to serve the Lord And hearken to his holy word. I pray that it will bring to me The peace and sweet serenity That comes from knowing God is near To bless me in the coming year.