[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Recess | Author: Wangsgaard]
[Recess — School for the Deaf — Third Prize Poem Eva Willes Wangsgaard]
things,  the  things  that  perish,  and 
so  the  Lord  is  under  the  necessity 
of  adding  something,  and  so  he  says: 
For  behold,  and  lo,  vengeance  cometh 
speedily  upon  the  ungodly  as  the  whirl- 
wind; and  who  shall  escape  it? 
The  Lord's  scourge  shall  pass  over  by 
night  and  by  day,  and  the  report  thereof 
shall  vex  all  people;  yea,  it  shall  not  be 
stayed  until  the  Lord  come; 
For  the  indignation  of  the  Lord  is 
kindled  against  their  abominations  and  all 
their  wicked  works. 
Nevertheless,  Zion  shall  escape  if  she 
observe  to  do  all  things  whatsoe\  er  I  have 
commanded  her. 
But  if  she  observe  not  to  do  whatsoever 
I  have  commanded  her,  I  will  ^'isit  her 
according  to  all  her  works,  with  sore 
affliction,  with  pestilence,  with  plague, 
with  sword,  with  vengeance,  with  devour- 
ing fire. 
Nevertheless,  let  it  be  read  this  once 
to  her  ears,  that  I,  the  Lord,  have  accepted 
of  her  offering;  and  if  she  sin  no  more 
none  of  these  things  shall  come  upon  her; 
And  I  will  bless  her  with  blessings,  and 
multiply  a  multiplicity  of  blessings  upon 
her,  and  upon  her  generations  forever  and 
ever,  saith  the  Lord  your  God.  Amen 
{Ibid.  97:22-28). 
IVrOW,  it  is  my  duty  to  cry  re- 
pentance, to  teach  our  people, 
to  try  to  get  them  to  walk  in  ways 
of  righteousness  and  truth.  It  is  your 
duty  as  sisters  to  teach  your  sisters 
that  they  may  do  likewise,  just  as  it 
is  the  duty  of  all  those  who  hold 
the    Priesthood    to   cry    repentance 
and   teach    our   people   to   prepare 
themselves  for  the  coming  of  the  |
Son  of  God.    Now,  the  Lord  is  not  j
going  to  tell  anybody  when  he  will  I 
come.    He  is  not  going  to  tell  me  or  | 
anybody    else,    but    he    will    come  !
when  least  expected;  when  people

KEEP  THE  COMMANDMENTS  7 
are  full  of  this  world  and  its  affairs  providing   we  will   keep    his    corn-
