[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Leota | Author: Design]
Page 36 Leota Murphy Makes Rugs of Unique Design a Murphy, Hayden, Arizona, has developed artistic skill in making rugs from discarded clothing. One style is made with a special crooked needle with which thousands of woolen strips (cut on the bias) are crocheted together with a hidden warp that runs through the center of each strip. Another type is made from cotton strips woven on a loom. In addition to rugs, Mrs. Murphy fashions beautiful quilt tops from sewing remnants. Her fame has traveled far, and many people collect and send her material for her work. Her durable and attractive rugs and quilts grace the homes of many friends and relatives. Mrs. Murphy was born in West Virginia, and later lived in Iowa, where she heard the gospel message and was converted to the Church. Her life is an example of thrift, industry, kindness to neighbors and friends, and love of God. > Mary Ek Knowles, Ogden, Utah, has won much recognition for her short stories. She is a member of the Blue Quill, a writers club of Ogden, and has served several times as president of the State organization League of Utah Writers. In a brief sketch of her life and activities, she tells us: 'I was born in McGill, Nevada, but reared in Salt Lake City, Utah. I have a wonderful husband, Rowland, and three grown children: Janet, Ernest, and Larry; a handsome new grandson, Stuart, and a beautiful new granddaughter, Teressa Ann. My eighty-two-year-old father, Alma Ek, lives in Merced, California. "I have always been interested in writing, and tmve had stories published in American Magazine, Cosmopolitan, Today's Woman, Chatelaine, Toronto Star Weekly, and such religious publications as The Improvement Era, The Relief Society Magazine, and Extension. Many of my stories have been reprinted in foreign countries. I am pleased that mv story '""Ten Dollars Will Buy Many Things" won recognition, because I believe so devoutly in the theme. I served as literature class leader in the Ogden Twenty-third Ward for seven and a half years."