[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Cannon]
The following are familiar phrases guaranteed the most unlikely to please: "When I was the work meeting leader. Oe e "Did you hear what someone told me about Mary?" "That wasn't the way I heard it. You have it all wrong." 29 "How much did it cost?" "My doctor says that's the worst thing you could do!" "Your child is a hard one to discipline, isn't he?" "Another meeting?" "Well I can't come to any of the practices, but I guess I could sing with you on the program." "Yes, this is a nice centerpiece, but you should see my tulips this year." "Don't expect me to work on a committee with her." "Can't you possibly get someone else to do it?" "Oh, this recipe is a failure today. I never can do it when I have to bring it over to the chapel." Facing Attitudes It is well to face our attitudes, for they face us! Our attitudes and appreciations, our thoughts and the actions that spring therefrom, our sensitivities and our responses line our faces, just as surely as a pen marks a paper. The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts, therefore guard accordingly; and take care that you entertain no notions unsuitable to virtue and reasonable nature (Marcus Antonius, from The New Dictionary of Thoughts). Questions for Discussion Using the above "phrases most unlikely to please" as a basis, restate them in words of charm and thoughtfulness. How do YOU do? ree America's Literature Comes of Age Lesson 31 — Edgar Allan Poe — The Pathos of His Life and Poetry (1809-1849) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 413-457) For Tuesday, April 17, 1962 Objective: To review Poe's life that we may more truly read his works. DGAR Allan Poe, generally recognized by the public as an author of great prose and poetry, has been subjected to more conflicting judgments by the critics than any other American literary writer. These diverse opinions concern both his personal life and his artistic creations. 'They range from such comments as 'I'ennyson's, ""The most original American genius,' to the slanderous portrait of Poe as portrayed by the Reverend Rufus W. Griswold, whom, most ironically, the naive Poe chose to edit his writings. Never in literary history has a literary personage committed a more catastrophic blunder. Poe made his living as an editor and critic, whose keen analytical powers were respected and whose courage and, sometimes, sharp tongue in saying exactly what he thought of his contemporaries, made him many enemies, among them Rufus W. Griswold. Griswold apparently never forgave Poe for publishing unflattering statements about his writings and those of his friends. Poe felt contempt for the current practice of publishing critical comments anonymously; he believed it...

work meeting counselor, and Adele Ray Koziar, as secretary-treasurer." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 49 Photograph submitted by Luella M. Buechi RIVERSIDE STAKE (UTAH) ELDERLY VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, June 2, 1961 Front row, seated, left to mght: Amelia Jones, eighty-four; Janet Bridge, eightythree; Alzina Whitehead, eighty-two. Back row, standing, left to right: Elvina Holt, eighty-five; Sarah Harman, ninety; Hannah Jones, eighty-three. Daphne Hartle, seventy-eight, was not present when the picture was taken. Luella M. Buchi, President, Riverside Stake Relief Society, reports: "These sisters were honored for their faithful service. 'They are still actively engaged in visiting teaching. Each sister represents the eldest in her ward. Their combined years of visiting teaching total 228 years. "A lovely luncheon was prepared and served by the stake Relief Society board to 236 sisters present. The skit "The Improper and Proper Way of Visiting Teaching' was presented and enjoyed. The 'Twenty-ninth Ward Relief Society put on a clever 'Laf-Vu of Fashions' in which thirty members participated. Vocal selections were rendered by a trio, Janice Smith, Eunice Calagory, and Carmen Mann. Each ward had a wonderful display of handiwork and other articles made during the past season. Everyone acclaimed this as one of the finest conventions we have had." — Flame Against Snow Maude Rubin Love was a candle in the April wind— Unthinned Its burning; flaring in bright design through autumn's lambent glow. Now, like a ripened burl of pine, Amber with lucent power,. Love warms this white December hour... Fire on the evening hearth, flame against drifted snow. LESS N ) LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 39 — The Revelation to William W. Phelps Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants: Section 55) For Tuesday, April 3, 1962 Objective: move the kingdom of God forward. ANY men of exceptional talent joined The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints not long after its formal organization in the spring of 1830. The Lord knew the needs of the Prophet and the men who could help him most. Among those who had indicated a desire to join the Church at this early period was William Wine Phelps who will long be remembered by the saints because of his contribution to the hymnology of the Church. He made his impress upon the history of this dispensation in many other ways, however. According to the Prophet's journal, William W. Phelps and _ his family arrived in Kirtland, Ohio, about the middle of June 1831, as the Prophet was preparing for his first journey to Missouri. Because Mr. Phelps desired "to do the will of the Lord," the Prophet inquired of the Lord concerning him and the Page 50 To study the contribution of a talented Latter-day Saint who helped revelation (Section 55) for study in this lesson was received. (See D. H. C, 1:184-185.) Background of Section 55 William W. Phelps was in his fortieth year when he came to Kirtland. Before this he had been active in politics in New York State and I had been the editor of a newspaper for the Anti-Masonic Party. It was while thus employed in Canandaigua, New York, only a short distance from Palmyra, that he bought a copy of The Book of Mormon which had just come off the press With an intimate knowledge of the Bible, he and his wife compared it with The Book of Mormon. A few years later (1835), he wrote this about the influence The Book of Mormon had upon him: From the first time I read this volume of volumes, even till now, I have been struck with a kind of sacred joy at its LESSON DEPARTMENT title page. What a wonderful volume! What a glorious treasure! By that book, I have learned the right way to God; by that book I received the fulness of the everlasting gospel; by that book I found the new covenant; by that book I learned when the Lord had set his hand the second time to gather his people; by that book I learned that the New Jerusalem, even Zion was to be built upon this continent; by that book I found a key to the holy prophets; and by that book began to unfold the mysteries of God, and I was made glad. Who can tell his goodness, or estimate the worth of such a book? He only who is directed by the Holy Ghost in. All things; and has kept all his 4 commandments blameless through ife. [The above quotation, with other biographical material in this lesson, is taken from an unpublished thesis written by Walter Dean Bowen of the Church Seminary System. I William W. Phelps' conversion to the gospel through The Book of Mormon had given to him and his wife a desire to meet Joseph Smith. This was accomplished toward the end of December 1830. Of this event, Brother Phelps recorded his feelings as follows: Now, notwithstanding my body was not baptized into this church, yet my heart was here from the time I became acquainted with the Book of Mormon; and my hope, steadfast like an anchor, and my faith increased like the grass after a refreshing shower, when I for the first time held a conversation with our beloved brother Joseph who I was willing to acknowledge as a prophet of the Lord, and to whom, and to whose godly account of himself and the work he was engaged in, I owe my first determination to quit the folly of my way, and the fancy and fame of this world, and seek the Lord and his righteousness, in order to enter a_ better world Such was the impression made upon Brother Phelps by the Proph- 51 et. The way had been prepared, however, by the witness of the Holy Ghost to his soul. Section 55 Six months later, the Lord, by revelation, called upon Brother Phelps to be baptized. Significantly, he would not be chosen unless he was obedient to the commandment given. 'The Lord calls men, but only a relatively few are chosen because their thoughts and aspirations are upon the things of this world. The essential message of the gospel for the investigator is given in verse 1 of this revelation (D & C 55:1). Every convert receives a remission of sins by obedience to the commandment that his faith and repentance are sincere, with the intent that his act of obedience to baptism will be pointed to the glory of God. It is the Lord's work and glory to bring about the eternal life of man. Acceptance of the gospel requires that the person's efforts will be turned into furthering the Lord's work in every possible way. Another important truth is indicated in this verse when it is understood in its historical background. Brother Phelps had already received a testimony of The Book of Mormon by the Holy Ghost; yet, he was told that if he was baptized in the water the Holy Ghost would be given to him by the laying on of hands. Why was it necessary for Brother Phelps (and all converts) to receive this gift, if he had already received the Holy Ghost? The brief answer is as follows: the Holy Ghost which convinces the investigator of the truth will not remain with him unless baptism in water is accepted, and also the laying on of hands for 52 the gift of the Holy Ghost. Not until the authorized servant of God bestows this gift by the power of the Priesthood does the person have the "right" to retain the blessings of the Holy Ghost. (See lesson 32, "The Gifts of the Holy Ghost," Relief Society Magazine, February 1961.) Phelps' Baptism There are probably many ways that the Lord has brought great persons of talent into his work. An understanding of some teachings of the gospel was a factor in the case of Brother Phelps, although he had already received the testimony of the Holy Ghost Of his conversion, he once wrote: I was not a professor at the time, nor a believer in sectarian religion, but a believer in God, and the Son of God, as two distinct characters, and a believer in sacred scriptures. I had long been searching for the "old paths," that I might find the right way and walk in it, and after a suitable time to investigate the work, and prove its truth by corresponding evidence from the old Bible, and by internal witness of the spirit, according to the rules of holiness, I embraced it for the truth's sake, and all honest men who seek a better world, will "go and do likewise'"' (Messenger and Advocate, I:115). Obedient to the revelation, Brother Phelps was baptized on June 16, 1831. Because of William W. Phelps' prominence in New York State, seyeral newspapers made note of his becoming a member of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. A General Assignment Continuing the revelation, the promise is made that upon his baptism, Brother Phelps would be ordained an elder by Joseph Smith, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 and thus he would be able to preach repentance and baptism for the remission of sins. (See D & C 55:2.) Following this promise the revelation reads: And on whomsoever you shall lay your hands, if they are contrite before me, you shall have power to give the Holy Spirit (Ibid., verse 3). This promise to Brother Phelps was not intended for him alone, but it is a blessing which may be participated in by any worthy elder of this Church. In itself, it is an important truth. These following two facts are worthy of consideration: (1) By revelation in this day man may know that the power to bestow the Holy Ghost was never intended only for the Twelve Apostles appointed in the meridian dispensation; and (2) There is a way by which the elder may be able to see the evidence of his ministry in the lives of those whom he Serves. How would Elder Phelps be able to know, on the basis of verse 3 of this revelation, that he had not been deceived? As long as he worthily performed his duties as an elder and the person he confirmed a member of the Church had prepared himself with an "eye single to my [God's] glory," there should be manifest in the lives of those converts the fruits of the Spirit. The Lord promised many gifts of the Holy Ghost to the sincere believer. (See D & C 46:11, 26.) As these gifts were received and use made of them in healings, and other miracles, prophesyings, etc., the elder in the Church would be apprised of the power which he possessed as an elder. One may conclude that the LESSON DEPARTMENT steadfastness which Brother Phelps and many others demonstrated during their lives, aided by the Spirit, gave evidence of the promise given to faithful Priesthood bearers. Specific Calling The revelation addressed to William W. Phelps gave him an assignment which was suited to his special abilities. In these words, the Lord said: And again, you shall be ordained to assist my servant Oliver Cowdery to do the work of printing, and of selecting and writing books for schools in this church, that little children also may receive instruction before me as is pleasing unto me (D & C 55:4). This is the first time in the revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants that mention is made of schools in the Church. It should also be noted that this revelation (verse 5) commands Brother Phelps to accompany the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon to the land of the saints' inheritance (Missouri), where he would undertake the work assigned him The last verse of Section 55 assigns Joseph Coe also to be a member of the company. A brief account of this journey is found in the Prophet's writings (D. H. C. 1:188). In Jackson County, Missouri (July 1831), the Lord gave to the Prophet a revelation in which Brother Phelps was to be established as a "printer unto the church" at that place. Important in this connection is that the position of printer in that period was much more than a pressman; it also included the responsibilities of editor. It is said of such men that they had great versa- 53 tility and knowledge. In Section 57 Brother Phelps is told to "obtain whatsoever he can obtain in righteousness, for the good of the saints" (verse 12). The Evening and Morning Star With the call to be the printer unto the Church and work with Oliver Cowdery in publishing books for the Church, Brother Phelps purchased a printing press at Cincinnati. With the establishment of this enterprise and the issuance of The Evening and Morning Star, a monthly publication, the first periodical of the Church, there was great joy for the saints, as the Prophet recorded that although the press universally had sought to harm us, "the Saints rejoiced that they [editors] could do nothing against the truth but for it" (D. H. C. 1:273). In this periodical appeared many of the revelations which are now found in The Doctrine and Covenants and also a chapter and parts of three other chapters of the Book of Moses. It was published from the period June 1832, until the destruction of the press on July 20, 1833, at which time the Book of Commandments, the first compilation of revelations, consisting of sixty-five chapters, was being printed. (In 1835, The Evening and Morning Star was re-established in Kirtland, Ohio, with Oliver Cowdery as editor.) The first issue of the Star informed its readers that its office was "situated within twelve miles of the west line of the state of Missouri; which at present is the western limits of the United States, and about 120 miles west of any press in the state " (Ibid., page 277). There also appeared in the first 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 issue, the following counsel concerning the education of children: The disciples should lose no time in preparing schools for their children, that they may be taught as is pleasing unto the Lord, and brought up in the way of holliness.