[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: New March Dimes]
cJhe    I  Lew    1 1  Larch  of   Jji 
rnes 
George  P.  Yoss 
Vice-President  for  Public  Relations 
T^HE  1962  New  March  of  Dimes  campaign  opens  January  2.     Our  im- 
mediate objective  is  to  intensify  the  attack  on  birth  defects,  arthritis, 
and  polio,  and  thus  achieve,  eventually,  a  higher  health  standard  for  all. 
Although  our  medical  research  and  scholarship  programs  are  nationally 
organized,  patient  aid  is  given  with  March  of  Dimes  funds  at  the  com- 
munity level.  Our  local  chapters  are  in  the  course  of  expanding  a  bold, 
new  approach  to  patient  aid  —  a  network  of  Special  Treatment  Centers 
and  Evaluation  Clinics.  Through  this  system  we  hope  to  bring  highly 
skilled  medical  services  to  areas  where  they  do  not  now  exist. 
When  crippling  is  an  accomplished  fact;  when  a  child  is  paralyzed 
by  a  birth  defect  or  polio,  or  his  limbs  are  knotted  by  arthritis,  he  needs 
Total  Medical  Care.  Research,  education,  dedication,  these  are  the  basic 
steps.  Taken  one  by  one,  they  build  up  total  medical  care  under  the 
New  March  of  Dimes.  Research  in  laboratories  and  hospitals  is  opening 
the  way  for  development  of  new  medicines  and  new  treatment  methods. 
Grants  to  students  and  universities  assure  that  the  knowledge  that  comes 
from  research  will  be  put  to  use.  There  can  be  no  grants  for  dedication, 
but  your  willingness  to  help,  to  share,  sparks  the  efforts  that  are  bringing 
new  standards  of  care  to  the  chronically  disabled. 
Say  'Tes''  to  the  March  of  Dimes.    Your  dimes  will  do  it  again! 
^, am  an d  LKice  Cyasserole 
Margaret  Knipp 
c.  diced,  cooked  ham 
c.  cooked  rice 
c.  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
can  cream  of  celery  soup 
1 
1 
Vz-'A   c.  milk 
Vs  c.  chopped  green  pepper 
c.  chopped  onion 
tbsp.  pimento 
c.  mushroom  slices 
(or  1  3-0Z.  can)  —  optional 
bread  crumbs 
tbsp.  butter 
Saute  pepper,  onion,  and  mushroom  slices  in  one  tablespoon  butter  (if  canned 
mushrooms  are  used,  just  add  after  draining).  Mix  soups  with  milk  until  well  blended. 
Add  pepper,  onion,  and  mushrooms.  Butter  pan  before  filling  and  alternate  layers  of 
ham,  rice,  and  soup  mix.  Finish  with  soup,  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in 
350°  oven  until  bubbly,  about  40  minutes,  depending  on  depth  of  casserole  or  baking 
pan. 
Page  29