[Vol51 | September 1964 | Page 647 | Special Feature | Nursing and Nurse Training in Relief Society Irene | B. Woodford]

Nursing
and
Nurse
Training in
Relief Society

Irene B. Woodford
Member, Adult Committee,
All-Church Coordinating Council,
Former Member,
Relief Society General Board

THE wailing cry of a newborn babe floated over the cold night air. Before the appearance of dawn, nine infants were born to mothers in exile at the temporary camp at Sugar Creek, nine miles across the Mississippi River from the beloved city of Nauvoo. Mothers and babes were as adequately cared for as possible, under the trying circumstances of bitter cold and inadequate shelter by kind and compassionate sisters acting under the authorization and blessing of the Priesthood of God.

"The Prophet Joseph Smith had called and set apart a number of women, among them leaders of Relief Society, to go among the sick and afflicted in Nauvoo and minister to their wants. President Emma Smith, Counselor Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Secretary Eliza R. Snow, and Treasurer Elvira A. Cowles were so called, as were Sarah M. Kimball, Mary Fielding Smith, Mercy R. Thompson, Marinda Hyde, Mary Ann Hyde and others. These sisters and those called and set apart later by President Brigham Young and other General Authorities, ministered as midwives and nurses in the camps of Israel as the saints trekked westward across the plains. The need was great for women with faith, aptitude, and the necessary skills to perform these services during the memorable exodus of modern Israel, for "mothers gave birth to offspring under almost every variety of circumstance imaginable, except those to which they had been accustomed; some in tents, others in wagons — in rainstorms and in snow-storms."

For many years after the saints arrived in the Valley of the Great

647

SEPTEMBER 1964

Salt Lake the responsibility and burden of delivering babies and caring for the sick rested primarily on the women of the Church, and Relief Society was at times sorely taxed to meet the urgent demands for nurses and midwives. One of the most loved and needed inhabitants of the far-flung and scattered Mormon settlements was the practical nurse and midwife who, at all hours of the day or night and in every kind of weather, responded willingly and cheerfully to a call for help. "Go get Sarah" would be the cry — or "Jane," "Ann," or "Maggie." Wherever she was and wherever she lived, at a moment's notice the dependable and devoted midwife and nurse would hasten to the one in need of her help. Often the only "doctor" for miles around, these faithful women, many of them Relief Society presidents or their counselors, traveled endless lonely miles on foot, or horseback, by buggy, wagon, or sleigh through the deep snows of winter and the rain and mud of early spring, to bring babies into the world, set broken bones, cool fevered brows, and perform other healing services. Nor were the travels of these women without personal danger to them, for there were rivers to ford, blizzards to face, and the ever-present danger of a horse, racing over the rough countryside, losing its footing in the darkness of night. One midwife was "lost in a blizzard overnight," and on another merciful errand was "nearly drowned while fording a stream in high water time."

Some of these early midwives and nurses had received training under eminent physicians and in the midwife schools and hospitals of their native lands. Others attended nurse classes in Salt Lake City, for the need of trained women nurses was recognized shortly after the saints arrived in the Salt Lake Valley. As early as 1849, Dr. Willard Richards, Counselor to President Brigham Young, commenced a nurse class for women that included among its members Zina D. H. Young and Emmeline B. Wells, both later General Presidents of Relief Society. Practical instruction was given in midwifery, care of children, children's diseases, etc. When Dr. Richards was absent, his wife Susannah Richards, a graduate nurse from her native England, taught the classes.

Following the death of Dr. Willard Richards, the following notice by Dr. William France, Surgeon, appeared in the April 18, 1855, Deseret News:

By Desire of the late President Willard Richards, and urged thereto by repeated solicitations from many of the Sisters; it is my intention on or about the 1st of May, to open classes for instruction on The Principles of Midwifery and the Management of Women and Children.
The Course of study will comprise two distinct Series of lectures. One designed especially for the benefit of the Matrons practicing Midwifery. The other (of more general application) addressed to "Mothers in Israel" concerning the management of Women during Pregnancy, Lying-in and Nursing; and also the treatment of Infants and young Children . . . .

Classes in obstetrics and nursing continued to be taught by private physicians, and women who could, took advantage of the opportunity thus provided them.

648

NURSING AND NURSE TRAINING IN RELIEF SOCIETY

Blessed and set apart by the Presiding Authorities of the Church and acting under this authority and blessing, they performed a marvelous work, some of them delivering from 3,000 to 4,000 babies. As President Brigham Young blessed one midwife he promised her that if she would "trust in the Lord for help and guidance and not resort to drugs and patent medicine she would always be successful." This promise was fulfilled, for in her forty years of practice she never lost a mother and she lost very few babies. Another midwife stated, "I spent fifty years in the service. I confined hundreds of women and I did not lose a case."

The medical equipment of these early midwives and nurses often consisted solely of poultices, plasters, and medicinal herbs. The pay received for their service was meager — from three to five dollars for each birth and care of the mother and baby for nine days. This payment was often made in produce — a little pig, two chickens, eggs, butter, wheat, beans, garden vegetables, or a few berries. Many times duties were performed without remuneration.

As the migration to Utah increased and the settlements expanded, the hazards of childbirth became a pressing problem, and the need for women trained in midwifery became increasingly acute, for there were many settlements without any medical aid. Keenly aware of this need and earnestly desiring to maintain a low mortality rate among mothers and infants, the Church and Relief Society leaders began strenuously to promote the training of women in medicine and obstetrics. In 1872 Sister Eliza R. Snow canvassed for students in Salt Lake City "in view of opening a school of medicine and surgery for the instruction of females; that those possessed of nerve, energy and ambition for such a laudable life, might have opportunity for qualifying themselves."

ON July 15, 1873, President Brigham Young requested Relief Society presidents throughout the Church to appoint three women from each ward in the city and one from each settlement to study hygiene, nursing, and midwifery. The bishops were instructed that, if necessary, the students be supported by the ward during the term of study. In speaking at a Relief Society meeting in Ogden, Eliza R. Snow referred to this request by President Young:

... President Young is requiring the sisters to get students of Medicine. ... Are there here, now, any sisters who have ambition enough, and who realize the necessity of it, for Zion's sake, to take up this study. There are some who are naturally inclined to be nurses; and such ones would do well to study Medicine, if they are inclined to do so. If they cannot meet their own expenses, we have means of doing so. ... Those who go through this course should be young women. We have, in Salt Lake City, a Mrs. Barker, who proposes to teach. ...

Then, another class of women is wanted more advanced in age, who are natural nurses, and would be willing to study obstetrics; this lady is going to give a series of lectures for their benefit. ...

... We have to get up these classes and attend to all these things. (Woman's Exponent, September 15, 1873).

The school of obstetrics was

649

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman attending to a patient in bed, with a "HOME SWEET HOME" sign on the wall]

opened in September of 1873 and taught by Mrs. Mary Barker, by Seymour B. Young, private physician to President Brigham Young, and, for a time, by Zina D. H. Young, third General President of Relief Society, who practiced obstetrics for many years "and was always ready to exercise her faith and lend her outstanding abilities as a nurse." Many women came from the different settlements to attend this school.

To alleviate further the urgent need for medical help, President Brigham Young called women who had special qualifications and aptitudes to go East and study medicine. Upon their return they were to spend some time teaching others in the frontier communities. Sister Romania Pratt Penrose, the first to go, obtained her medical degree in 1877. Upon her return she gave free lectures

to the medical class, replacing Sister Young. Private classes in nursing and obstetrics were given by Latter-day Saint women physicians over a period of fifty years, principally by Dr. Penrose, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, and Dr. Margaret Curtis Shipp Roberts, all Relief Society women, the first two being members of the Relief Society General Board. Dr. Ellis Shipp traveled extensively from Canada to Mexico visiting isolated communities and imparting of her knowledge, as did also Dr. Margaret Shipp Roberts.

In 1893, Relief Society General President Zina D. H. Young accompanied President Wilford Woodruff to Idaho to canvass the wards and stakes in the Upper Snake River Valley and invite women to attend a School of Medicine to be conducted in Salt Lake City by Dr. Margaret Curtis Shipp Roberts. President

650

NURSING AND NURSE TRAINING IN RELIEF SOCIETY

Woodruff emphasized "that only women of courage, determination and abundant energy need apply, for they must be willing to endure hard work, long hours, and have the strength to battle the elements in their travels to the homes of those who needed aid." It was hoped that three women from each ward would be able to attend this school.

ON May 14, 1898, a special meeting of Relief Society presidents of the Salt Lake State was called to consider the organization of a Relief Society Nurse Training School. Stake Relief Society President Mary Isabella Horne told the sisters assembled that the proposed class had the approbation and blessing of the First Presidency and of the presidency of the Salt Lake Stake. It was suggested that the Relief Society presidents select four students from each ward, ranging in ages from eighteen to forty. The course would take from six to eight months and those who took it would be expected to devote some of their time to nursing the poor, when sick, in their respective wards.

Relief Society General President Zina D. H. Young and her counselor Bathsheba W. Smith were present at this meeting. President Young "heartily endorsed the movement looking to the betterment of the poor and the suffering." Bathsheba W. Smith said call "I hope the sisters will rally to the call and be a ray of sunshine in the home of the sick, good nursing will be sought for and I pray God's blessings on the class." Dr. Roberts, who was to teach the class free of charge, said she believed the day would come "when you will be proud to wear the cap and apron of the Relief Society corps of nurses." Relief Society presidents of eighteen city wards and five county wards heartily endorsed the movement and promised aid and support in the matter.

This Relief Society Nurse School, which was placed under the direction of the General Board of Relief Society on September 13, 1902, was conducted until 1920, a period of over twenty-one years. A report on the progress of the work was given in the Woman's Exponent of March 1903. It stated that the Nurse Class

... has been doing good work and the ladies are making excellent progress in their studies . . . . It is of great satisfaction to the general officers of the Relief Society to know that such favorable advancement is being made because the first duty of the society is to care for the poor, the needy and unfortunate, and in order to be equipped for this work there is need of competent nurses, not only in large cities, but in country places, and almost more in new colonies.

In this class of 1903 there were eighty-seven students from twenty-six stakes in Utah, Idaho, Arizona, Wyoming, New Mexico, and Oregon.

The Relief Society Nurse Classes were conducted annually on an eight-month basis for students ranging in ages from eighteen to forty-five. One stipulation in the contract was that the students devote a specified number of days to charity nursing, under the direction of Relief Society, during the first year after their graduation.

651

SEPTEMBER 1964

Besides providing nursing service for those unable to pay, it was the purpose of the Nurse School to make provision for nursing service in those areas of the Church which were without such service, and also to provide inexpensive nursing service for Latter-day Saint families who could not pay the higher cost of a registered nurse.

In line with changing conditions, the Relief Society Nurse Class was superseded in 1920 by a one-year course for Relief Society Nurse Aids at the Latter-day Saint Hospital in Salt Lake City, the students being recruited by Relief Society. The course combined theoretical instruction with practical experience in bedside nursing under supervision, and was similar to practical nurse courses offered today. Forty-six nurse aids were graduated during the four-year period that the course was offered. Relief Society thus, so far as is known, became the first organized body in the country to put the practical nurse school idea into effect.

In addition to the many years of nursing service and training of nurses by Relief Society, this organization also, over a period of years, gave monetary help in the form of loans to assist a number of student nurses.

TODAY, as in the past, the care of the sick is a vital and fundamental part of the work of Relief Society, and many hours are devoted to this service by its members. In 1963, under the direction of Relief Society, there were 32,666 eight-hour days of bedside care given to the sick, and almost 400,000 additional visits made to those who were sick and homebound.

Although Relief Society no longer sponsors nurse training courses as it did over a period of almost fifty years, it continues to support nurse training programs. It encourages women who are interested in going into professional training to consider the programs offered in the College of Nursing of many universities. The Brigham Young University offers the four-year baccalaureate program, the three-year hospital diploma program, and, commencing in October of 1964, a unique two-year associate degree program which will qualify its graduates to work in staff nurse positions in hospitals and clinics. The graduates of this new program, if they so desire, may take the examination for licensure as registered nurses.

Relief Society encourages women interested in semi-professional work to attend a vocational school for training as practical nurses. It also encourages mothers in many areas of the Church to take Red Cross home nursing courses. In recent years, as in the past, through its stake and ward organizations, Relief Society has recruited women to attend nurse training courses and has promoted nurse training through Relief Society conventions and quarterly conferences. Relief Society also compiles annually in the wards and stakes throughout the Church lists of registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, experienced practical nurses, and nurse aids. An interesting example of the use of this information in time of disaster or national emergency came to us from Australia. Re-

652

NURSING AND NURSE TRAINING IN RELIEF SOCIETY

lief Society President Mavis Cutts of the Melbourne Stake reported in 1962:

Recently we had shocking brush fires which encircled our city, and a national emergency was declared. After the fires had been raging for two days, the Red Cross society found that we keep a list of nursing sisters, and we were thrilled to be able to send some of our wonderful sisters to the rescue at very short notice. The Relief Society organization is truly wonderful, and I sometimes feel that we could say that we are prepared for any emergency. (The Relief Society Magazine, April 1962, page 314).

President Spafford has personally made many contributions to nursing through her service as vice-president of the National As-

sociation for Practical Nurse Education and Service, and as a member of the board of directors of this organization. She formerly served as chairman of the editorial committee for the Practical Nursing magazine.

The need for more trained nurses is expressed by President Spafford in these words:

Vast new demands are daily being placed upon our nursing resources. Expanding health services of all kinds, the steadily increasing number of hospitals (our own Church operates sixteen), the growing number of nursing homes for the aging, the steady growth of many of our communities with their increasing public health and other nursing needs, all demand that more women be trained for this essential profession.

[ILLUSTRATION: A drawing showing a nurse in traditional uniform and cap attending to a patient in bed]
