[Vol51 | September 1964 | Page 695 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities | Hulda Parker]

Notes FROM THE FIELD**

General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

**RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES**

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Denver Stake (Colorado) Ward and Branch Relief Society Magazine Representatives Achieve Outstanding Record

Front row, seated, left to right: Fern Olsen; Opal Jones; Ramona Delgado; Daisy Gillaspie.

Back row, standing, left to right: Denver Stake Magazine representative Katherina Belman; Afton Riches; Norma S. Prior, Victoria Carpentar; Annabelle Nelson; Evelyn Mosier.

Illah K. Smith, President, Denver Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group of ward and branch Relief Society Magazine representatives have made a very outstanding record in the last two years. In 1962 they placed over 100 per cent in subscriptions in each ward and branch, giving the Denver Stake 112.3 per cent. They were second highest in Magazine subscriptions' gain in the Church. In 1963 they again raised their record to over 101 per cent in each ward and branch, which gave the Denver Stake 111 per cent. Sister Gillaspie of Castle Rock Branch achieved the highest, with 157 per cent. Sister Delgado of the Spanish-American Branch had 153 per cent, even with one-fourth of her branch unable to speak English. We are very proud of the fine record this group of sisters have made, and we are eagerly looking forward to new records in the future."

695

SEPTEMBER 1964

Grand Coulee Stake (Washington) Singing Mothers Present Music for
Quarterly Conference, February 1964

Standing in the front row, at the left, in dark dresses, left to right: Eileen
S. Peterson, President, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society; Anne R. Gledhill,
representing the General Board of Relief Society; Grace P. Swinyard, of the
Primary Association General Board.

At the left, second row, left to right: Mary Cornelson, Second Counselor,
Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society; Barbara Gilbert, First Counselor; Kay
Smith, organist; Joan Hughes, accompanist.

Eighth from the left, in white blouse: chorister Luana Johnson.

Sister Peterson reports: "The Singing Mothers of the Grand Coulee Stake
presented two beautiful numbers at the quarterly conference. The singers represented twelve wards throughout the stake."

Palmyra Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Inspirational Program
"Words and Music"    February 27, 1964

Front row, right to left, beginning with the women in dark dresses: Mabel
S. Banks, newly released first counselor; Lucille Robinson, literature class
leader, and author and narrator of the script presented at the program; Bernice S. Swenson, President, Palmyra Stake Relief Society; Donna G. Anderson, Second Counselor; Verda F. Tuckett, organist; Lenore Measom, chorister.

The newly appointed First Counselor Florence F. Cope stands in the second
row from the back, third from the right.

Sister Swenson reports: "On February 27, 1964, an inspirational program
of 'Words and Music' was presented by the ten-ward Singing Mothers chorus
of Palmyra Stake at Spanish Fork, Utah. Each ward chorus sang one song,
which helped to develop the theme 'I Heard America Singing.' The songs were
chosen from the works of well-known and beloved American composers. Among
the composers honored were the Latter-day Saint women Eliza R. Snow, Florence Jepperson Madsen, and Mirla Thayne. Sister Thayne was present and
was paid a special tribute as her song 'I Wonder When He Comes Again' was
sung by one of the ward choruses. As a special guest, she was presented with
a lovely floral arrangement. . . . Refreshments were served to approximately
450 sisters. Nursery leaders cared for ninety children, most of whom were the
children of the young mothers singing in the chorus. All who attended the
program enjoyed it and were enthusiastic about it. Many have expressed their
desire that this may become an annual affair."

North Rexburg Stake (Idaho), Hibbard Ward Relief Society All-Day Work Meeting
February 11, 1964

Seated: Vera W. Parker, work meeting leader, holding a Lone-Star quilt.
Standing, left to right: Nina C. Ricks, First Counselor, holding a hand-
appliqued rose quilt; Belva P. Withers, President, displaying an around-the-
world quilt; Edna B. Jensen, Second Counselor, holding a hand-appliqued
pond-lily quilt.

Ada S. Sharp, President, North Rexburg Stake Relief Society, reports:
"The officers of the Hibbard Ward Relief Society were well pleased when fifty-
eight sisters turned out to an all-day work meeting planned to stimulate greater
interest in quilting among the sisters. The meeting started in the morning, and
the last quilt was taken from the frames at 5:15 p.m. There were seventy-four
sisters enrolled in the Hibbard Ward Relief Society. The ward was divided into
four districts, with Reba R. Widdison, Elizabeth K. Neville, Harriet L. Rigby,
and Flora Belle J. Johnson as chairmen. Each sister in the district was contacted by her chairman and invited to attend the work meeting. Lunch was
served to eighty-three, which included the children. A day-long nursery was
maintained."

696

[PHOTOGRAPH: Group photo of women in what appears to be a meeting or conference room setting]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group photo of many women arranged in rows, appears to be taken in an auditorium or large hall]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Four women displaying quilts or textile work, with one woman seated and three standing, showing various patterned fabrics or quilts]

697

Wasatch Stake (Utah), Midway First Ward Honors Visiting Teachers at Opening Social, October 1, 1963

"The year 1963 marked the fiftieth anniversary of 100 per cent visiting teaching in the Midway First Ward Relief Society. A most successful social was held on Tuesday, October 1, 1963. A large number were in attendance. Bishop Burton Van Wagoner was the honored guest. Belva Luke was chairman of the lunch committee.

The room and tables were cleverly decorated with miniature meetinghouses of the architecture of 1913 and 1963, with dolls representing visiting teachers in the style of each period. Lovely fall flowers were effectively used. Large, gold-colored figures of the number "50" were placed appropriately among the decorations. Mildred Larsen, Wilma Chavez, and Wilma Pope were in charge of decorations.

"A most impressive program followed the lunch. There were special stage settings depicting the important accomplishments of the visiting teachers since 1913—the year the goal was set. It was Emily S. Coleman, President, Midway First Ward Relief Society, who, in 1913, with the help of her counselors and Bishop John Van Wagoner established the goal. The gathering of wheat, the filling of storehouses with grain, sending flour to stricken Europe, and to the distressed following the San Francisco earthquake, selling the wheat to the Government, the giving of wheat to the Priesthood for seed to be distributed to the farmers, the visiting of the sick, the distribution of clothing to the needy, were all dramatized in special scenes.

"Music was furnished by Barbara B. Johnson, Wilma Chavez, Judy Milliner, and Maxine Carlisle. A picture of each Relief Society president was flashed upon the screen as each period's program was reviewed. Georgia Dawn Clegg had charge of the splendid program. Thelma Hair was the reader, and Wilma Chavez was the stage director.

"A special award was given to Martha Burgi for fifty years service as a visiting teacher. Other awards were given for long years of service as visiting teachers, ranging from twenty to forty-seven years. Flowers were presented to every visiting teacher present."

Hamburg Stake (Germany) Relief Society Handwork Displayed at Stake Conference March 14th and 15th, 1964

Liselotte Schrader, President, Hamburg Stake Relief Society, reports: "On the 14th and 15th of March, 1964, our stake conference was held in Hamburg, Germany. This time Sister Mary Young of the General Board of Relief Society visited us to give instructions to the Relief Society officers. We have eleven Relief Societies within our stake, and officers from every one were present. We held wonderful meetings and learned much of how to help our sisters more effectively.

"We took the opportunity at this conference to have a display of handmade articles from the following wards: Eppendorf, Altona, Hamburg, Luneburg, Hamburg, Pinneberg, and Luebeck. The picture shows a part of the displayed handwork. It will be seen that the articles which the sisters here in Germany prefer to make are: pillows, aprons, crocheted pot holders, tablecloths, and wall carpets. Most of the handwork was done in Relief Society work meetings.

"We especially enjoyed the presence of the President of the European Mission, Elder Ezra T. Benson, a member of the Council of the Twelve. He visited our displays with interest."

698

[PHOTOGRAPH: Group photo of women in what appears to be a Relief Society meeting or gathering, with women seated in front row and standing in back rows]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Display of various embroidered and needlework items including tablecloths, pillows, and decorative textiles with floral and geometric patterns arranged on chairs and hanging as backdrop]

699

North Argentine Mission Relief Society Conducts Seminar at Cordoba
November 1963

Front row, seated, left to right: Elsa Sarrodes; Afton Anderson; Worcas Barragan; Rosa Villareal; Rosa Arnutio.

Back row, standing, left to right: Olga Romero; Carlota Funes; Alice Allred; Narciasa Cena; Juana Vergés.

Patricia J. Stone, Supervisor, North Argentine Mission Relief Society, reports: "Recently the Sisters of the Relief Society in the North Argentine Mission held their bi-annual meetings. The meetings were held in the newly completed offices of the mission located in a subdivision of Córdoba.

"The responsibility of leadership falls upon the Argentine sisters. All of the branch and district officers are Argentine 'hermanas.'

"The conference was carried out under the direction of Sister Lubormirski and Sister Stone. General instructions were given to the sisters, and each of them had a chance to express herself and put forward new ideas for the betterment of the organization. A large testimony meeting was held at the end of the two-day conference, in which the sisters had the opportunity of gaining a better spirit of the work and to return to the various districts with a renewed spirit of dedication.

"A quilting bee was an interesting sidelight of the conference. Alice Allred, the wife of a construction supervisor building a chapel in Argentina, showed the Argentine sisters the art of quilting, and it was a great motivator for all of them. Sister Judd of Salt Lake City, Utah, was visiting the mission with her daughter Patricia Judd Stone. Sister Judd also took an active part in the quilting, and her skill was the envy of all her Argentine sisters.

"The Relief Society is well organized in the North Argentine Mission and serves well the 2,500 members."

British Mission Relief Society Presents Talent Concert
for Relief Society Anniversary, March 14, 1964

Standing, left to right, front row, beginning fourth from the left: Maxine Hanks (in black dress), former supervisor of Mission Relief Societies, wife of former mission president Marion D. Hanks; Evangeline T. Beesley, President, British Mission Relief Society; Monta Gardner and Mary Timmins, Counselors.

Also represented in the picture are mission district and branch presidencies.

Sister Beesley reports: "We were delighted with the response of the Singing Mothers. There were 110 sisters singing together, having been trained by local leaders, and by me, as I was able to travel about to meet with them. It was remarkable that their singing was so unified and beautiful, for many were unable to be with us in the one combined rehearsal held a few days prior to the concert. The sisters were alert and eager to sing their best, and they touched the hearts of their listeners. Many tributes have come to the mission as to the good impression made by them on members and investigators. We feel that we were especially blessed in the rendition of our numbers.

"The talent numbers representing each district were varied and interesting. They consisted chiefly of musical numbers, instrumental solos, a chorus, and vocal duets. There were entertaining readings, and a skit was presented. Later, during the refreshments, a skit was presented from the stage, as well as a dance.

"There were about 350 people present, including members of the Priesthood, investigators, and friends. A wonderful spirit of friendliness and love, of cooperation and accomplishment marked the afternoon. We were happy that both Sister Emma Marr Petersen, wife of President Mark E. Petersen, of the West European Mission, and Sister Maxine Hanks could be with us."

Christine H. Robinson is the new supervisor of the British Mission Relief Society.

700

[PHOTOGRAPH: Group of ten women in two rows]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group gathering around a table with cake]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group of women and some men standing outside a brick building]

South African Mission, Transvaal District Relief Society Convention
Held at Ramah Chapel, Johannesburg, February 15, 1964

Hilda H. Alldredge, Supervisor, South African Mission Relief Society, reports: "Nine branches from the Transvaal District participated. An outline of the Relief Society lessons for 1964 was presented. Dinner was served to 250 sisters and their partners. Each sister received a net ballerina doll as a favor. A Relief Society play 'The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan' was given in the evening.

"Each sister returned to her respective branch with enthusiasm and a better understanding of the Relief Society program. We hope to make these conventions an annual event and hope that increased knowledge and love for the work will be the result."

701

Lesson Department

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman holding a book with one hand raised]
