[Vol51 | September 1964 | Page 645 | Special Feature | The Presence of a Prophet | ]

The Presence
of a Prophet

Birthday Greetings to President David O. McKay
For His Ninety-First Birthday September 8, 1964

Wherefore, we search the prophets, and we have many revelations and the spirit of prophecy; and having all these witnesses we obtain a hope, and our faith becometh unshaken . . . for the Spirit speaketh the truth . . . for God also spake . . . unto prophets of old (Jacob 4: 6, 13).

AT this time when summer prepares to leave the northern land, and the glow of approaching autumn lies along the ridges of the hills, in the mountain valley of the headquarters of the Church, President David O. McKay observes his ninety-first birthday.

It is with gratitude and rejoicing that the women of the Church — Relief Society members in many lands — extend to President McKay their abiding thankfulness for the guidance and inspiration of a prophet of the Lord. The sisters are comforted and spiritually uplifted in the realization that it is a privilege and a blessing to be granted life upon the earth in a day when the restored gospel has given them prophetic guidance, as in earlier dispensations when the word of the Lord made straight the pathway for those who sought to make their moral lives a fitting part of eternity.

Many have expressed their admiration and their reverence for President McKay as a teacher of great accomplishments, a far-traveled missionary, an inspired leader, and as a witness of the gospel to the world. And yet, perhaps dearest and most precious to the many thousands of Church members, is the testimony, the conviction that a prophet of the Lord lives among us and bears witness of Jesus the Christ and the restoration of the everlasting gospel in its appointed time and place.

Many thousands among the nations, the young and the old, those of various languages, in generous or meager conditions, the learned ones, and those of lesser opportunity — thousands have felt

the presence of the prophet, and thereby have known a transcendent spiritual blessing.

In a new ward in a newly organized stake in England, an elderly man spoke in deep humility when he said, "Now the yearnings of my life seem to have been fulfilled, for I have stood in the presence

645

SEPTEMBER 1964

of a Prophet. I have heard his voice, and I have looked upon his face."

A young child, standing near the Tabernacle door at conference time, looked from his small stature to the tall height of President McKay and reached up his hand, confident and joyful to participate in a privilege and a blessing.

A student, learned in the prophetic teachings of the Bible, and, after being converted to the Church, an ardent reader of The Book of Mormon, has testified that when she was privileged to meet President McKay, personally, she felt a sense of joy and exultation which still abides with her, because she felt that she stood in a similar atmosphere of faith and strength, as surrounded the prophets of old—those who in former generations testified of everlasting truth.

Now that the stakes of the Church number nearly four hundred, and the missions have increased throughout the world, the voice and the words, and the presence of the prophet give strength, wisdom, and a radiant spiritual uplifting to new members of the Church, as well as to those who were born within its folds. It is well that, in this time of world-encircling communication, the message and the testimony of the prophet, President David O. McKay, have been taken by television and by radio and by the printed word even to those few distant places wherein President McKay has not traveled.

Relief Society women in their responsibilities as wives and homemakers, as exemplars and teachers for their children, and as leaders among women, in all of these callings the sisters rejoice in the testimony of President McKay. He has spoken as the prophet words of truth that shall be treasured throughout the generations, words that have guided and inspired the people of this day, words that will be a heritage in the time to come, for as the prophet Nephi declared long ago, the words and the teachings and the testimony of a prophet are for all people in all time. They "shall go from generation to generation as long as the earth shall stand; and they shall go according to the will and pleasure of God; and the nations who shall possess them shall be judged of them according to the words which are written" (2 Nephi 25:22).

Among the many treasured declarations of President McKay, in his testimonies of the truthfulness of the gospel, words such as these are with us as a continuing blessing:

Out of eternity come the years and into eternity they go . . . What then should be man's greatest purpose as he marks one by one the passing years? It should be to cherish those attributes which, like his soul, will endure and brighten throughout all eternity. Life is before you; not an earthly life alone, but an endless life — a thread running interminably through the work of eternity . . . . I believe that God . . . is our Father and desires the happiness and eternal life of his children. . . . Men may choose the right or they may choose the wrong; they may walk in darkness or they may walk in the light; and mind you, God has not left his children without the light (Secrets of a Happy Life, pp. 90-91, 119).

646
