Volume 51 Number 9 September 1964 Lessons for December Christie Lund Coles Summer is gone — deftly, greenly drawn — Autumn supplants her with its fiery leaves; Its birds that peep more warily at dawn; Its croak of frogs; its wind that softly grieves; Now is the time for stubble on the land; For skies mist-hidden by the hazy air; For the musk of withered flowers in the hand; For fruit too heavy for the bough to bear; This is not only death, but triumph, too, For rich fulfillment and the pearly frost; For hills that wear a more flamboyant hue; For sustenance against the summer, lost. This is the harvest, jeweled and inlaid. How good the sun against the infrequent shade! The Cover: Relief Society Singing Mothers in Front of the Mormon Pavilion at the New York World's Fair, June 24, 1964. Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Mirror Lake, Near Lake Placid, New York Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Art Layout: Dick Scopes Ilustrations: Mary Scopes 641 I cannot go out to Relief Society meetings now, but I read every word of the Magazine. In the June issue the picture of Sister McKay was very lovely. I enjoyed the story ''The Sheep That Strayed on Sunday," by Helen Nielson, which emphasizes kindness and good family ties. It was a pleasure to read ''Happiness in Flower Arranging,'' by Maude W. Howard. Thanks so much for the Magazine. Frances R. Stoker Ogden, Utah The sewing hints and patterns which have been published in The Relief Society Magazine are very interesting. The recipes, too, are delightful to use. In fact, the whole Magazine has all the better features of any magazine, especially the stories and poems, so clean and refreshing. Margaret Perry Junction City, Kansas I am so glad every month that I have The Relief Society Magazine in my letterbox. I love the Magazine. I learn so many new things when I read the Magazine. I am living in Malmo, Sweden, and in our branch here there are many subscribers to the Magazine.! Also learn to read English more easily and to speak more correctly by reading the Magazine. Mrs. C. Fryksmo Malmo, Sweden After reading Lois Tanner's article in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine, ''A Tribute to. Relief Society Presidents,' I was sure she meant our Relief Society president Janene Bates. She makes each member feel important and needed. Her smile at meetings seems to be especially for each sister, although there are dozens of us there. I love Relief Society, the lessons, and the Magazine. Gladys Morrison Susanville, California 642 I especially love the beautiful colored pictures used as covers for The Relief Society Magazine, so imagine how pleased I was when I found this joy shared by another. Who was that other? A young missionary here in the North British Mission. He came visiting when I had my Magazines out for binding. His first words when he entered the room were: ''Oh, Relief Society Magazines! There may be a picture of my mountains.'"' Where are his mountains? American Fork, Utah. We found two pictures: the cover for September 1963, and the frontispiece for October 1963. What a joy this brought to one so far from home. Elsie Lee Whitefield, Lancashire England I am a young homemaker married just one year. The Relief Society Magazine is truly one of the highlights of my life. The stories are always heartwarming and tender, and I especially enjoy the sewing hints. Words cannot express the love and deep admiration I have for the Magazine. Carol Hood Blackhurst Pleasant Grove, Utah I enjoy so very much the beautiful covers and frontispieces of The Relief Society Magazine. They bring back such lovely memories of the places in Utah which were so common to me as a young girl. The picture of the South Fork of the Provo River in the April issue is especially beautiful. —Eileen Mecham Cleland Rawlins, Wyoming I think the Magazine is wonderful and the lesson material superb. I want especially to thank-Christine H. Robinson for the effort and research she puts into our visiting teacher meassages. I often use excerpts from her messages in my talks before the Parent Teachers Association meetings. —Rayella Richardson Santa Barbara, California The Relief S ociety Magazine oO. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so thot no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.° Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.