[Vol51 | September 1964 | Page 710 | Lesson | Work Meeting — Personal Attractiveness, a Factor in Happiness Winnifred | C. Jardine]

WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life

Winnifred C. Jardine

Discussion 3: Personal Attractiveness, a Factor in Happiness

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

For Second Meeting, December 1964

Objective: To see the effect of our personal attractiveness
on our own and our family's happiness.

As everyone knows, what we are inside reflects on the outside, and conversely, how we look on the outside affects the way we feel inside.

When we are dressed appropriately—from the moment we get out of bed in the morning until we retire at night—our confidence increases, our spirits brighten, we are more efficient, and we are happier. Our families feel this and respond—feeling a little more sure of themselves and proud of us.

A decisive beginning to the day on the part of mother can influence the attitude of the family. If she is up and dressed, with her hair combed, the day has definitely begun. She feels good because she is "on top" of things, and her family feels good because she looks like she is "on top" of things. In that home happiness can rise with the sun.

(Three things to be worn as little as possible are hair curlers, housecoats or robes, and bedroom slippers!)

Attractiveness begins with cleanliness. Personal habits differ from country to country, depending upon facilities, water supplies, etc., but cleanliness is fundamental and should be achieved by whatever means. A frequent bath not only keeps the body clean and fresh, but brightens the spirit and relieves fatigue.

Clothing, too, should be kept fresh and clean. White collars, white gloves, scarves, and underwear should be laundered regularly so they are spotless. Sponge and press outer clothing as needed, and keep shoes polished and in good repair for good grooming.

Mothers need to have the proper clothing for their roles as homemaker, hostess, and mother. As with all things, there needs to be a careful balance of mother's going without (as she so often does) to provide more for the children. She should take care of her own needs sufficiently well, to keep the family's pride in her

710

LESSON DEPARTMENT

appearance. It is important for each family member to learn to go without occasionally, enabling all to share the family resources.

Homemakers should plan wardrobes for around the house just as they do for their social lives. Comfortable and well-fitting shoes for working about the house can give a woman bounce and energy. Clothes that are simple and loose-fitting not only are easier to wash and iron, but also give the body freedom for stretching or kneeling.

A wardrobe should include appropriate clothing for going out casually in public—shopping, to the library, and on errands.

It is important to our feeling of well-being and happiness (and to that of our families) to be conscious of our appearance. We should always look acceptable before leaving home. This would apply to dressing appropriately for Relief Society meeting and other Relief Society activities and Church functions.

The Church has set standards of dress to which mothers and daughters should adhere. Counsel was given to Relief Society relative to standards of dress by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen in the General Relief Society Conference October 1962.

President Smith advised: "And I think the Latter-day Saints should not follow the fashions and the immodesty of the world. We are the people of the Lord. He expects us to live clean, virtuous lives, to keep our thoughts clean and minds pure and faithful in the observance of all his other commandments. Why should we follow the world, why can we not be modest, why can't we do the things the Lord would have us do?"

Elder Petersen declared, "Mothers in Israel, as long as we turn away from modesty in dress and follow the way of the world in style, just that long will we pay the price in a breakdown of morals among the younger generation."

By being particular both in standards and neatness of dress, we can set an example that might change the habits of the neighborhood, which in turn could strengthen the attitude of the community, which could build the stature of a nation, which could magnify the world.

It is a loving mother or grandmother who makes a special effort to pretty herself up before the family comes. Though there may have been children underfoot all day, there should be a moment to freshen up, to appear neat and clean to greet homecoming family members. This makes for a pleasant remembrance for children to tuck away in their memory chests and attractive picture for a husband to come home to.

Let us keep up our appearance so the family can be proud of us. After all, most of us spend the greater part of our waking hours at home and this is where we ought to look our best. For it is here the most important people in the world—our families—will be seeing us!

711

LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values
                as Seen Through Literature

                                        Elder Bruce B. Clark

Lesson 3: Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part 1

(Textbook: Out of the Best Books by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas,
                Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City

                For Third Meeting, December 1964

Objective: To show how spiritual values and faith in God
           and man have been expressed through poetry.

OCCASIONALLY in the world of literature there is a writer so gifted and so wise that he seems to speak with a voice of divine authority. Such a writer was William Wordsworth (1770-1850), who, a century and a half ago, created poems of such simple beauty and such enduring truth that their appeal and greatness seem forever assured. If we Latter-day Saints take seriously the Lord's commandment to seek words of wisdom out of the best books, we will do well to study the poems of Wordsworth, for in all literature there are few other first-quality poets who shaped so many religious and ethical truths into works of art. As Samuel Taylor Coleridge says, Wordsworth was "friend of the wise and teacher of the good," who, in Matthew Arnold's words, came to a world of "doubts, disputes, distractions, fears" and brought stability through the "healing power" of his poetry.

ODE: INTIMATIONS OF IMMORTALITY

Wordsworth's poem best known to Latter-day Saints is the famous "Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood," for it is the fullest and most beautiful expression in all literature harmonious with the unique Latter-day Saint doctrine of pre-existence, which extends immortality in both directions, not only forward into post-mortality following death and resurrection, but also backward into pre-mortality before birth. All Christian churches recognize life after death, and many Christian people have a sort of inherent feeling that there is life before birth; but The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints alone teaches as an official doctrine that we mortals existed as individual spirit children with God our Father and exercised our free agency for development in a pre-mortal state.

712

LESSON DEPARTMENT

And wicked exultation when good men
On every side fall off, we know not
    how,
To selfishness, disguised in gentle
    names
Of peace and quiet and domestic love
Yet mingled not unwillingly with
    sneers
On visionary minds; if in this time
Of dereliction and dismay, I yet
Despair not of our nature, but retain
A more than Roman confidence, a
    faith
That fails not, in all sorrow my sup-
    port,
The blessing of my life — the gift is
    yours,
Ye winds and sounding cataracts! 'tis
    yours,
Ye mountains! think, O Nature! Thou
    hast fed
My lofty speculations; and in thee,
For this uneasy heart of ours, I find
A never-failing principle of joy
And purest passion.

"The Prelude" goes on to talk
of the innate nobility that is
man's heritage, and of how, when
he conquers the base animal in-
stincts within himself, man can
move toward the potentiality of
godliness that is his, for "there's
not a man that lives who hath
not known his godlike hours."

In the remaining books of
"The Prelude," fourteen long
books in all, Wordsworth talks of
many further things that shape
one's life for good or bad, espe-
cially how faith in immortality
can lift one to nobility in mor-
tality.

I had inward hopes
And swellings of the spirit, was rapt
    and soothed,
Conversed with promises, had glim-
    mering views
How life pervades the undecaying
    mind;
How the immortal soul with God-like
    power
Informs, creates, and thaws the deep-
    est sleep
That time can lay upon her; how on
    earth,
Man, if he do but live within the light
Of high endeavors, daily spreads
    abroad
His being armed with strength that
    cannot fail.

And the conclusion of this
lengthy meditation on life and
the universe is

Faith in life endless, the sustaining
    thought
Of human Being, Eternity, and God.

CHARACTER OF THE
HAPPY WARRIOR

Not so philosophically or artis-
tically rich* as "The Prelude"
and the "Intimations of Immor-
tality" ode but even more direct-
ly centered around an ethical
message is "Character of the
Happy Warrior," which is Words-
worth's fullest description of
what he felt man at his best
should be. In a narrow sense it
characterizes what a military of-
ficer ought to be but in a larger
sense is a portrait of an ideal
leader of men. Such an ideal

*Lack of artistic richness seriously lessens the poetic attractiveness of
"Character of the Happy Warrior." Most readers prefer poetry that communi-
cates through metaphors and other figurative, imagistic phrases. But the lan-
guage here tends to be direct and literal. The form is blank verse, but it is
more prosaic and "flat" than that of Wordsworth's great blank-verse poems such
as "Michael" and "The Prelude," or of such a poem as "Intimations of Im-
mortality." Indeed, a good case could be made for calling "Character of the
Happy Warrior" a prose essay in iambic pentameter rhythm rather than a gen-
uine poem. The work is included here not for its artistry of language but for
its loftiness of message.

715

by him, as examples of the poetry of faith.

In addition to the discussion of Wordsworth given on these pages, the Relief Society literary text contains other material on Wordsworth, including a full printing of the "Intimations of Immortality" ode and "Character of the Happy Warrior." It also contains an introductory discussion stressing that although there is much pessimism and negativism in some works of literature, through the centuries men of literature, and especially poets, have traditionally been defenders of man's faith and champions of his spiritual ideals. A full discussion of several poems by the great Robert Browning is also included in this section of the text (also to be used for next month's lesson), with supplementary discussions of poems by William Blake, Emily Dickinson, Francis Thompson, Gerard Manley Hopkins, and Edith Sitwell. If the literature class leader desires, these supplementary selections may be used in the Relief Society lessons to enrich this material on Wordsworth — as determined by the special needs of the ward or branch.

Thoughts and Questions for Discussion:
1. To what extent does the wisdom of maturity serve as "abundant recompense" for a loss of the spontaneous joys of youth, as Wordsworth says in "Intimations of Immortality"?

2. To what extent do children have intuitive knowledge of truth, as Wordsworth also says?

3. Discuss the meaning of the two closing lines of "Intimations of Immortality":
    To me the meanest flower
        that blows can give
    Thoughts that do often lie
        too deep for tears.

4. From the viewpoint of modern psychology, discuss the meaning of Wordsworth's line: "The child is father of the man." Does your experience support this view of the relationship of maturity to childhood?

5. Discuss the qualities identified by Wordsworth as making an ideal leader of men ("Character of the Happy Warrior"). Are they too lofty to be realistic? Do you know any leaders who measure up?
