Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL NATIONS" ADVANCEMENT: To all well-balanced minds, woman is particularly adapted, fitted, and is it too much to say, fore-ordained to the sacred calling of nurse and accoucheur. If any member of a family is sick who does the nursing? Whose gentle hand soothes the aching, tossing head? Who binds up the cuts and scratches, or perchance the more serious wounds and bruises?... Then let us ask, who should study and inform themselves most thoroughly upon the intricate principles of medicine, and the more simple and natural laws of nursing? —H,. RELIEF SOCIETY IN TEASDALE, WAYNE COUNTY (UTAH): Although we are so far away from your beautiful city, and only few in numbers, yet we enjoy the spirit of the Lord in our meetings, and are trying to do our duty and adhere to the counsel given to us, in storing up grain, and studying the Lectures on Faith and storing our minds with good and useful knowledge, and trying to live as becomes Latterday Saints and mothers in Israel. I am pleased to say we are a united little band of sisters here in Teasdale. —Mary E. Adams, President Teasdale Relief Society MEDITATION My soul has gone forth in its wandering, To the hills that are purple with light; Those temples that tower everlasting, In their majesty, grandeur and might. And I list to the voices eternal, That have sung thro' the ages of time, And I bask in the visions supernal, That lift me to regions sublime —E. B. W. CALIFORNIA WOMEN A POWER: Some of the best thinkers and most logical of women have come into California, and are becoming a power. I think there is not a "stupid woman" in the State. Some are eminently "clever" in the sense which, among English folk, denotes intellectual strength and ability to express it. At this writing the State Woman Suffrage Association and the Equal Rights League of San Francisco are in Convention in Union Square Hall. —Nellie Blessing Eyster MEMORIAL FOR HANNAH T. KING: Memorial Day for the late Sister Hannah T. King, poet and author, was observed on July 30 ult. At the residence of Mrs. John Alford, who had made special preparations for the occasion and sent out cards of invitation for 4 p. M. A most delicious repast was served in the happiest style. At each plate was a handsome double card tied with lavender mbbon, each one containing a verse from the Psalms of which Sister King was so fond. The table and the parlors, in fact were artistically decorated with flowers and vines.... After dinner the ladies each paid a beautiful tribute to the gifted, departed friend.... The guests were Mesdames Horne, Kimball, Spencer, Smith, Grieves, Howe, Woodmansee, Brockbank, McFarlane, Richards and Wells. —News Note Page 524 [XN London, on the Embankment, we asked a British "bobby" a question. He replied very courteously and added, "Like to see the Queen? She'll be driving by any moment now. Right over there is a good place to stand." We waited. Soon the policeman signaled another in the distance and _ the Queen's car rounded the corner. Elizabeth is more beautiful than her photographs — very graceful and relaxed, dainty, feminine. She is a radiant person; yet, as her subjects desire her to be, she is "every inch a queen," a genuinely regal person. Britons take great pride in her. BRITAIN'S Princess Royal (the late Queen Mary's daughter, Princess Mary), as Chancellor of the University of Leeds, in May, conferred honorary degrees upon several notable people. Among them was Mrs. R. S. Pandit, High Commissioner for India in London, and Indian Ambassador to Ireland, who received a Doctor of Laws degree. 'The Princess said that untversities must always remain removed, but not too far removed, from the forum and the market place, the office and the workshop. The commonwealth of the universities should be world-wide and should know no curtains.