A ROSE WITHOUT A THORN 533 night and watched over them with 'Mollie, you will never find a rose tender care. 'They didn't call for without a thorn." me—they called for Frank. It Mollie got up and went over and dawned on me that I, too, had my kissed Aunt Rachael goodbye and thorns. Surely I could fill in for hurriedly left for home. The chilthe weaknesses in Frank as he was grey would soon be there for lunch filling in for me. When Frank og snavbe Ti;: ybe Jim would run in for a died the meetinghouse was filled to sandwich. With a thankful prayer overflowing — everyone loved him. - = He was the kindest man that ever 'TM her heart, and a new humility, Mollie spoke softly to herself: "T, lived, and I miss him more every e day." too, never expect to find a rose withAunt Rachael's trembling old outa thorn, nor am I one," and she hand wiped a tear from her eye, resolved to be a more understanding then she managed a smile and said, wife and count her blessings. — > Tt Shien' Whe Singing Nlothers Myree Daugherty UNDREDS of singing voices came to my ears, struck the chords of my heart, and penetrated the very depths of my soul. I thought it was a choir of angels, but I was here on earth, and angels do not dwell on earth. The singing continued and grew in volume. 'The words sent messages of love, of beauty, of adoration and praise. 'They spoke of mercy, of contentment, happiness and joy. And then faces began to take form before my eyes, and, gradually, one face became familiar. It was the face of a beautiful woman. She was singing, but it was different from most singing. The song was coming from her innermost heart; around her face seemed to shine a heavenly light. Behind her appearance, I could see a life of hardships and anxious moments, but, also, rising high above I could see courage, strength, faith, prayers, and finally success and peace of mind. And then I recognized the face to be that of my dear Mother, and then I knew the singing was coming from a group of angels. Yes, they were angels on earth. God had sent them here with a special calling and responsibility, and they have and still are fulfilling their duties in a complete way. 'They are here always to give us strength, and love, and courage. God bless them — our Singing Mothers. > Core of Sum fler Eva Willes Wangsgaard Here is the