trimming it all away. I will have the job to do all over again. Please stop and let me rest. I have done my share." But I went right on trimming. Untrimmed hollyhocks become dead sticks. I don't want dead sticks in my garden. Trimmed hollyhocks send out shoots in all sorts of new directions and start to blossom all over again. 'They stay young and vigorous until the killing frost, at last, finishes their work in the fall. I, like the hollyhocks, need trimming. I need to forget past deeds and look only to the future. I must see what new and interesting directions I can find for my efforts. Above all, I must keep busy in work that matters, I want my mind to stay young and vigorous, too. I never want-to become a dead stick. LNloonrise Ethel Jacobson Oh, rising moon, Whiteness slipping from a —— sea, Lucent, polished, A wafer of chalcedony Sea-foam pale, "- Dripping diamond sea-spray stars, You rise from a blackness Of waves, cliffs, deodars.... The midnight landscape Lightens, brightens, shimmers and glows, A silver rose! Unfolding in petaled bloom. Yosephine Yohnson Laker Specializes un Useful Hobbies OSEPHINE Johnson Laker, seventy years old, of Freedom, Wyoming, has enriched her life with hobbies and has contributed much beauty to the lives of her friends and relatives. "Any hobby that gives happiness is a worthwhile hobby, but a useful hobby is a two-fold blessing," says Sister Laker, "and, anyway, I love variety." Quilting is a favorite hobby for Sister Laker, and she makes quilts in intricatepieced designs, in applique patterns, and in unusually beautiful quilted motifs on plain colors. Her '"Flower-Basket'"' quilts have been much admired, and her '"Four-Flower"' quilts are beautifully designed in harmonizing tints on plain backgrounds. In one year, her sixty-ninth year, she made a quilt for each one of her five children. Sister Laker is an industrious "green-thumb" gardener, and she grows flowers indoors and outdoors, experimenting with seedlings and cuttings, and finding the best varieties suitable to the climate of beautiful Star Valley that is her home. She paints pictures, and is skilled in all the household arts. For many years she has been active in Relief Society, serving as a visiting teacher for twenty-two years, and assisting in lesson work, quilting and sewing projects. — cS, riptych Vesta N. Lukei These be Love's trinity: Devotion constant as The tide and moon, protective prayer, And faith. Page 537