Visiting Seacher Tlessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 42—"Pray in Your Families Unto the Father, Always in My Name, _ That Your Wives and Your Children May Be Blessed" (3 Nephi 18:21). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, November 6, 1956 Objective: To point out the blessings that come from family prayer. ERHAPS there is no single activity in the home which results in richer blessings than does that of family prayer. If parents would only realize the rewards of this activity they would be very faithful in its observance. President Heber J. Grant said of family prayer: I am convinced that one of the greatest things that can come into any home to cause the boys and girls in that home to grow up in a love of God, and in a love of the gospel of Jesus Christ, is to have family prayer (Gospel Standards, page 25). Families which start the day by kneeling down together in prayer receive a spiritual uplift. As each individual goes forth to his day's duties he carries with him the knowledge that the spirit of the Lord has been entreated to attend him. He goes out with the backing of his entire family, and, added to this security, is a feeling of confi- LESSON DEPARTMENT dence that he may have God's help throughout the day. 'Then, at the close of the day, for the family again to kneel in humility and thanksgiving brings peace to family members and a desire to continue in righteousness. If feelings have been hurt or errors committed, individuals may not feel like praying; but Brigham Young has said of such an attitude: It matters not whether you or I feel like praying, when the time comes to pray, pray. If we do not feel like it, we should pray till we do. Let no person give up prayer because he has not the spirit of prayer, neither let any earthly circumstance hurry you while in the performance of this important duty (D1scourses of Brigham Young, pp. 44, 46). Some families encounter difficulty in finding a convenient time for all members to participate in family prayer. 'This should never be a cause for neglecting this commandment. One exemplary family found the solution to evening prayers by setting the alarm clock for 7:00 P. M., which was the signal for all to assemble before any member left for an evening appointment. Think what a safeguard these prayers 223 would be to young people! Surely prayer is a protecting shield against the enticements of Satan. Many have testified that the thought of their families kneeling together in prayer asking the Lord to protect them from harm and evil, has saved them from yielding to temptation and making serious mistakes. When loved ones are far from the home circle, the prayers of the family are a sustaining influence. It means much for them to know that their families are praying for them regularly at home. They may even visualize the exact hour when prayers are being said and the faces of their loved ones engaged in this sacred practice. In a day when divorce and juvenile delinquency are alarming, family prayer can be a strong influence in preventing these sad situations. Family prayer cements family ties, it generates harmony and love, and teaches unselfishness. Hearts are mellowed, tempers softened, and problems dwarfed through seeking divine aid: More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of. "Morte D'Arthur," Tennyson WVork Tlecting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at