A Moment of Peace Harriet A. Preston. In treating this subject, I have been requested to give my personal experience in Nauvoo and vicinity, during that little time of comparative peace, which the Saints enjoyed from the founding of Nauvoo until the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph. At that time I was a mere child, three or four years old, and at the time of the founding of the City of Nauvoo, my parents were not even "Mormons." Therefore, my personal reminiscences are few and then only impressions of events that were stamped upon my childish mind. I have heard my mother tell of those early days, but she spent a very short time in the City of Nauvoo. Therefore, I have not even a large fund of tradition to draw from. The flight of our people from unfriendly Missouri to the more friendly Illinois I know nothing of, except what I learn from history. My parents joined the Church after the founding of the City of Nauvoo, in the year 1842. Among my earliest recollections is the coming of the "Mormon" elders to my father's house, his home then being in the state of Illinois, near Springfield. At that time my parents were not members of any church. My mother had belonged to and was reared a Presbyterian, but owing to their narrow views, she had become dissatisfied with that church. None of the doctrines taught by the various denominations satisfied her longings for the gospel, as taught by the Savior and his disciples in the holy scriptures. My parents often conversed about religious matters, wondering why none of the religious denominations taught the gospel as the Savior taught it. This much concerned them so that, when two "Mormon" elders appeared in the neighborhood preaching the gospel as Christ had taught it in his day, they found hearts and minds already prepared to receive the glad message. Although times were so dark and troublesome, my parents did not hesitate to cast their lot with the Saints, when they were convinced of the truth of the divine mission of Joseph Smith. My father, though not a particularly religious man as the world goes, was a most benevolent one, and it was his happy lot to be of assistance to many of the poorer Saints in those dark days. Never did he hear a tale of woe, or see a family in distress, but he helped them in a material way. Our hearts 16 were made glad, O so many times! because he was thus kind to suffering humanity. We loved him for this generosity and will always revere his memory because of his nobility of soul. I speak of this trait in my father as one merely illustrating, in part, the men and women who bore the trials of those early days and held steadfast to the faith, for it was from such as these that the Lord expected his kingdom to grow. Though a child of tender years, I can never forget the holy influence of those who brought the gospel message to my father's house. How he love and revered them! We knew in our souls that they were men of God and had been sent to us by him. I remember one instance, in particular, in connection with their visits. One of my little brothers was ill, so very ill, in fact, that he was nearing convulsions. My mother remembered that they taught the laying on of hands for the healing of the sick, so she asked them to administer to her babe. They inquired of my father if he had any objections, and he replied that he had not. They anointed the child and blessed him, and even while their hands were upon his head, he fell into a sweet sleep. Another instance occurred when I was too young to remember. An elder by the name of Sweeny was visiting our house when I was ill with the ague. I came into the room in a severe chill. My mother took me on her knee and said to him: "You say blessings follow the gospel. Now, why can't you heal this innocent child who is so afflicted?" He replied: "I will not attend to it today but will come back," giving a date when the chill would return. My mother felt that this was only a pretext to avoid the administration, and her faith in his words weakened. She also felt grieved that he would not lay hands on her little one, as she requested. She did not expect him to return, but the day appointed found him there, ready to perform the ordinance upon her little one, who was even then suffering a most severe chill. He rebuked the disease by the authority of the Priesthood and I was immediately healed. It is not strange, therefore, that we loved these men and remember their visits as the visits of angels. My parents did not go to Nauvoo immediately upon embracing the gospel, but moved to Macedonia, a little place not far from Nauvoo, where they lived until my father could prepare a place for his family near the larger city. It was here that we lived until after the martyrdom of the Prophet. Nauvoo was always the Mecca of our hopes, however, and my father spent much time there, being called often as one of the guard to the city. The Saints were not allowed to dwell in peace. They were continually harassed and insulted by their enemies. My mother was often alone in her home with her A MOMENT OF PEACE 17 family of small children during the periods of my father's absence. It was in Macedonia that I remember standing in the door to look at the soldiers comprising the militia of the state of Illinois, sent by the governor to protect the "Mormon" leaders who were even then in the hands of their persecutors. Members of this very militia, no doubt, stained their hands with the blood of those great and good men. O! the lamentations, the weeping that followed the martyrdom of the prophet and his brother, Hyrum. It was as if the whole people were indeed stricken to the heart. IF parents moved nearer to the City of Nauvoo, "The Beautiful," shortly after this terrible event. Wonderful indeed had been the growth of the place to which the Saints gathered after the perilous and unhappy stay in Missouri. It is needless to recount the historical facts. They are familiar to everyone. The stay in Nauvoo was indeed a calm between storms. The sun shone brighter in contrast to the clouds before and behind it. Now the old city of Commerce (deserted by its inhabitants on account of its unhealthy location) was purchased as a refuge for the driven Saints; how, in a few short years, a beautiful and prosperous city grew up, admired by unprejudiced visitors and envied by our enemies; how in an incredibly short time a temple was erected, and how the municipal affairs were administered, are all facts recorded in history. I must, however, speak of the charter under which all these rapid advancements were made and which Avas, no doubt, framed by divine inspiration. Under the charter the Nauvoo Legion was organized, the commissioned officers constituting the law making department, with full power to ordain, establish and execute all laws and ordinances that might be considered necessary for the government and regulation of said Legion, providing that the court-martial should pass no law repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, or of the state of Illinois. The officers of the Legion were to be commissioned by the Governor of the state. Its military duties were to be the same as those of the Militia of the state and was to be at the disposal of the Mayor in executing the laws and ordinances of the city corporation. Also in executing the laws of the state, at the disposal of the Governor, for public defense and execution of the state laws; or of the United States and should be entitled to its proportion of the public arms, and provided also that said Legion should be exempt from all other military duty. Ordinances passed under this protective and grand charter provided for the freedom of all 18 religious sects and denominations and the freedom of all public and peaceable meetings held in the city. An ordinance was passed to prohibit the sale of liquor at retail within the city limits. Under these strict regulations the city was rid of the low and depraved. Joseph, the Prophet, held a commission as Lieutenant-General of the Nauvoo Legion, signed by the Governor of the state of Illinois. In connection with this he was also a trustee of the University which had been established under the charter. During these busy periods, however, he did not neglect the spiritual welfare of his people; he imparted from time to time such religious instructions as the needs of the Saints required. Under these wholesome laws and ordinances, is it a wonder that the city grew rapidly and became one of the most beautiful and desirable places to dwell in? On the 6th day of April, 1841, the cornerstone of the most beautiful structure in the state was laid — the holy temple of the Lord, this day being the twelfth anniversary of the existence of the Church of Jesus Christ in this dispensation. A conference was convened in the peaceful City of Nauvoo, and at the same time a conference of the Saints was held in England, under the direction of Brigham Young and other apostles, nine of whom were at that time in that far-off country. The laying of the cornerstone of the temple was an occasion of much rejoicing among the Saints for they felt at last they had found a place in which to rest. During this moment of peace they built lovely homes, tilled their farms, engaged in mercantile pursuits, educated their children, and the blessings of Heaven seemed poured out upon them. The temple around which so many of their hopes centered — although begun with joyful anticipations and happy hearts — was completed under the most adverse circumstances. Our home — a comfortable brick house of four or five rooms, near Nauvoo (as I remember it),- was beautiful. The surrounding country was very attractive. The broad stretches of plain and forest, slightly undulating, the great Mississippi flowing slowly southward might be seen at sunrise, softly tinted with the roseate dawn, at mid-day, when plain and river were bathed in light, or at even-tide, when the lengthening shadows steal softly across the scene brightened by the glow of the setting sun. At night, when the moon arose above the horizon, throwing its silver light over forest and plain, turning the great river into a sheet of silver, the scene is one to dream of, so soft, so quiet, so full of that rapture of repose, that falls like dew upon the soul. These are pictures that I have still in my memory. A MOMENT OF PEACE 19 I recall seeing herds of deer making their way across the plains to the bottoms of the Mississippi. My first introduction to the Indians, was here as they passed by our home on their way to the west. Thus you see, at that time, the country had not been much disturbed by man, and it seemed, indeed, an ideal place for the building of a city — the home of the Saints. I remember sitting on the stone steps which lead up to the entrance of the temple, and with what reverent admiration I looked upon it, although too young to sense its significance. I recall having gone to a well which our beloved Prophet had blessed to the end that all those who should drink of it should receive health. When the Saints first went to Nauvoo it was extremely unhealthy, being malarial in fact, and many sickened and, had it not been for their faith in the Lord, would have died. Many times I have gone into an upper room of my father's house and, gazing out of the window at the angel on the spire of the Temple, dreamed that the angels of heaven hovered near that beautiful house of the Lord. I remember attending Sunday meetings in Nauvoo. They were usually held in a Bowery, especially during the summer months. The impressions I received at that early period of my life remain with me still. It seemed to me that everything was most beautiful. The congregations seemed to possess something divine as they listened, their wrap faces turned toward someone of the leaders who appeared to me so tall and majestic. The women, to my childish eyes, were the most beautiful in the world, their faces so bright, their dresses so pretty, and their voices so sweet as they sung the songs of Zion. The speakers were filled with that spirit and influence that a child could not mistake. It was here that I first took my little satchel and went with my older brothers and sister to school. The teacher was a woman, lovely of heart and mind. In these journeyings to and from school were developed the love for the beauties of nature which I have always retained. In the fall of 1844, a Little brother came to bless our home. We named him Hyrum Smith Thatcher. All of us came near worshiping this beautiful boy who only lived with us a little over eight years. He was a born "Mormon," and he loved to be called so. He was always proud of the name he bore and when he was taken from us, we felt that we had lost the most precious memento of our stay in Nauvoo. He seemed to partake so of the spirit of the times in which he was born. I recall vividly the preparations my parents made to leave their pleasant home to follow with the Saints and their lead- 20 ers into the wilderness. Members of the mob would often come to our house and order us to leave, or they would burn the house over our heads. My mother was brave, and would say to them: "You dare to set fire to our home and you will see and feel what will happen to you!" They were cowards and would leave without carrying out their threats. I remember the quantities of food which my mother prepared — all those foods which could be dried and made suitable for a long journey. These brave people had the courage to follow their leaders into a trackless wilderness, with stout hearts and happy faces, trusting in the Lord, never turning backwards, but bravely marching on into the great West and planting their feet in the Valleys of the Mountains, where they met famine and unfriendly Indians, and an untamed soil which had to be coaxed by irrigation, to yield to them crops, to live upon. It seems to me that this feat of courage and perseverance was not surpassed by the Pilgrim Fathers, in the year 1620, who left their homes to find a place where they could worship God according to the dictates of their conscience. Note: This interesting recital of Pioneer conditions in Nauvoo, during the interval between the martyrdom and the expulsion, is from the pen of one of Zion's heroines, who was the daughter of Elder Thatcher and herself was the wife of Bishop Wm. B. Preston. "ROMANCE OF A MISSIONARY.