DEE HOSPITAL. Nurse Work. The Latter-day Saints, always leading out in that which is great and good, have two hospitals with the most modern equipment, the best of service, and finest of officials to be found in the west. The career of a nurse is one which many of our girls might rightfully choose for the unlimited good they can do and for their advancement and development. Not only may our girls get hospital training in the Latter-day Saints Hospital in Salt Lake City, but also in the Thomas Dee Memorial Hospital in Ogden. In the year 1913, the Thomas D. Dee Memorial Hospital 86 at Og-den, Utah, was taken over by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Since that time extensive improvements have been made, including the erection of a Nurses' Home, which has every convenience looking toward the comfort of those in training. The Church has now under way the erection of a wing which will practically double the capacity of this institution. Graduate nurses are in charge and a course of training conforming to that adopted in the largest and best institutions in the United States is being given. The course covers a period of three years. Young ladies over the age of eighteen, of good moral character who have had at least one year's high school training, are eligible to take this course. THE DEE HOSPITAL, IN OGDEN Besides being given this training, students are comfortably housed and given their board. Also receive $8.00 a month. In the past years graduates have had no difficulty in finding steady employment at a good salary, and the future holds out even greater promises than the past. The Thomas D. Dee Hospital Training School is now receiving applications from those who wish to take this course. Its officers are: W. H. Wattis, president; Bishop David A. Smith, vice-president; David O. McKay, L. W. Shurtliff, James Wotherspoon, Dr. R. S. Joyce, Mrs. Thomas D. Dee, honorary member. Directors: Maud. D. Porter, secretary and treasurer; Bishop W. W. Rawson, superintendent; Miss Stella Peterson, R. N., superintendent of nurses. MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN International Congress of Working Women. Perhaps the most important movement among women of the world during the last month has been the open congress of the National Women's Trade Union League of America, held in Washington, D. C, October 28th, in the Museum with forty delegates from sixteen foreign countries and from the United States. The call was issued by the American Union League and Mrs. Raymond Roberts, its president, voiced the object of the congress in the following words: "Women must seek not protection against the evils of industry, but a position which will enable them, as women, to remove the evils of industry which affect both men and women workers and which are detrimental to the home and to the welfare of children. "We must emphasize not protection of women, but participation bywomen, and see to it that women have a normal place in industry and a freedom of expression which will guarantee recognition of women's point of view. "At the present time women are suffering because of too many humanitarian ideas, and too little concentration on the real problems affecting industry and the technique of accomplishing these reforms." An interesting development was that the typist read her notes as soon as Mrs. Roberts was through, in French, others followed in Polish, Bohemian, Italian, Japanese; the other nationalities understood one of the four languages. The women demanded equal representation in all future international labor conventions and emphasized the need of child labor legislation, medical inspection of schools, and that these reforms be made international in scope and application. Women to Fill Pulpits in the Protestant Churches. As a logical consequence of civil suffrage for women they are now demanding religious equality, or the right to minister in the churches, exactly as do men. Paul's adjuration to "keep silent in the churches" is tossed aside with indifference if not with flippancy. First, we have the general assembly of the Presbyterian meeting in October, 1919, in earnest discussion on this subject; then came the Congregational National Convention, on October 24, at Grand Rapids, who struggled with the question as heatedly as did the Presbyterians; and now, November, 22, Cannon Streeter, the famous Church of England authority, rises up and announces that the inhibition on women preachers must be removed sooner or later. He says, "It may not be expedient to admit women to the priesthood here and now, but everything short of that we can and ought to do at once, and hold up the other as an ideal for future years." As a side church issue connected especially with missionary societies, there was a meeting in New York, on October 27, of the Federated Women's Council of Foreign Missionary Societies, which announces itself as the first interdenominational body of women to go abroad for the investigation of missionary problems. Prominent among the members of this council are Presidents M. Carey Thomas of Bryn Mar college and Ellen F. Pendleton of Wellesley. The deputation sailed for Yokohama, November 8. How blessed are "Mormon" women who were given their rightful share of participation in social, missionary and religious work by the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he organized the Church with the fundamental principle of control of common consent by both men and women. His successors have enlarged the scope of this righteous attitude on the sex question, from time to time as occasion required and as the times were propitious. Lady Astor, in the British House of Commons. As another striking development of suffrage, we have the American born wife of the new Lord Astor who has accepted the conservative nomination for election to the House of Commons. The Viscountess is a daughter of the late William Waldorf Astor. She succeeds her husband in this position as his ascendancy to the peerage through the death of his father automatically transferred him to the House of Lords. English economists, by the way, are greatly troubled over the one and one-half million unmarried British women, and Lady Muir