[Map of Palestine at the Time of Christ]

PALESTINE AT THE TIME OF CHRIST an hook, and take up the fish that first cometh up; and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt find a piece of money: that take, and give unto them for me and thee" (Matt. 17:25-27).
Bible students tell us that the "piece of money" is designated by the more literal translation "stater," a silver coin equivalent to a shekel, the exact amount of the tax for two persons. The miracle is inexplainable, except on the assumption that Jesus made the earth, sea, and all things therein. It is incomprehensible to man's finite mind. The miracle is without parallel.
Jesus performed no miracles for personal gain. 'This one was wrought for Peter and to avoid giving offense. His questions to Peter clearly showed that Jesus, by reason of being a King's Son, need not have paid the tax but voluntarily did so to avoid any seeming violation of the law and for the sake of his chief apostle. As a Little Child On the way to Capernaum a dis- LESSON DEPARTMENT pute arose among the apostles as to who would be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. 'They believed Jesus was both the Messiah and temporal king. The apostles were arguing as to which would hold the important positions in the coming kingdom.
They finally met with Jesus in a house at Capernaum and the question was submitted to him. The Lord knew the thoughts in their minds and, wanting to teach them a lesson on true greatness, took a little child tenderly in his arms and said: Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven.
Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And whoso shall receive one such little child in my name receiveth me (Matt. 18:3-5). He taught also that little children are typical of the kingdom of heaven.
Jesus wanted his apostles to learn true humility. 'They were men of courage and force and he did not want them to become childish but childlike.
Following the lesson on humility he repeated some of the precious truths given in the great Sermon on the Mount, and gave them instructions on several vital subjects.
They were to avoid giving offense, to overcome evil desires and tendencies at any cost. If they committed evil, their consciences would be an unquenchable fire within them.
Every human soul must be tested. We are tried in the "fiery furnace" that the dross may be removed from the gold.
Amputate any member of the body which gives offense. "For every one shall be salted with fire, and every 127 sacrifice shall be salted with salt" (Mark 9:49). "The soul must receive the saving salt of the gospel." The Lord was especially solicitous of children. He said, "Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones; for I say unto you, That in heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven." The Parable of the Lost Sheep Showing his great concern that every soul should be saved, the Savior gave the parable of the lost sheep (Matt. 18:12-14 and Luke 15:1-7).
Space will not permit quoting in full.
Many people have misunderstood this parable.
There was great rejoicing over the finding of the lost sheep as there will be whenever a lost soul is saved. However, the ninetynine had continued joy.
They were safe-folded in the Master's keeping. The one was brought back to the fold the others had been enjoying. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in speaking of this parable, said: The hundred sheep represent one hundred Sadducees and Pharisees as though Jesus had said, "If you Sadducees and Pharisees are in the sheepfold, I have no mission for you; I am sent to look up sheep that are lost; and when I have found them, I will back them up and make joy in heaven."
This represents hunting after a few individuals, or one poor publican, which the Pharisees and Sadducees despised. (D. H. C. V: 262 and Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 277). My Brother and I Then followed a lesson on the proper method of adjusting differences between members of the Church, so necessary in all dispensations. 'The rule of the rabbis was that the offender must make the first advance toward an adjustment. Jesus 

128  taught, "Moreover if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother" (Matt. 18: 15). Then he gave the steps to be taken if further adjustments must be made. Extreme measures were to be taken only if a man neglected or refused to obey the decision of the Church. If the offender was finally cut off, he would be "'as an heathen man and a publican." The procedure is the same in the Church today (D. & C. 42:88-93). The Lord's instructions on forgiveness should be studied (Matt. 18: 15-22). These wonderful instructions were made more memorable by giving to the disciples the parable of the unmerciful servant (Matt. 18:23-35). The text on this parable should be carefully read. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What was the first miracle that happened after the transfiguration? Why did not the apostles cast the demon out of the afflicted child? 2. Relate the experience of the Savior with the tax collector at Capernaum. How was the tax paid? 3. What lesson on humility did Jesus teach while at or near Capernaum? <p.