[Women Against Polio by Caroline Eyring Miner]

Women Against Polio Elaine Whitelaw Director of Women's Activities National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis AST summer's widespread epidemics of infantile paralysis emphasized anew the importance of women in all aspects of polio work.
Women always have been leaders in the fight against this disease.
Naturally this would be so, since the vast majority of those hit by polio are children, and nothing comes closer to a woman's heart than the well-being of her children —indeed, of all children. But their activities today go further than sympathy and interest.
Women are serving in the ranks of those caring for patients, seeking a preventive or cure, organizing communities to meet the needs of epidemic emergencies, and disseminating factual information about infantile paralysis to prevent fear itself from becoming epidemic.
Nothing stood out more clearly during 1948, when at least 30,000 new cases of polio were reported for the United States, than the growing influence of women in this work....
Every successful _ volunteer movement owes a substantial part of its development to the tireless energy and enthusiasm of its unpaid women workers. And 1948 proved this to a high degree.
More than 12,000
Polio Emergency Volunteers had been trained by them to assist professionals in the bedside care of polio patients in hospitals and homes Many went into polio wards in California, Nebraska, and Texas to help. At Camp Sutton, 
Monroe, N. C., fifty PEVs did all of the non-professional work, so that physical therapists there could devote all their time to muscle training and testing. One of the most serious problems after an epidemic is the follow-up care of patients. Women will play a large part in solving this in North Carolina, for they have arranged to transport patients to hospital outpatient departments and travelling orthopedic clinics run by the State's Crippled Children's Service for regular check-ups and treatments. Many of the country's "forgotten" polio cases of years past already have been given new chances for useful lives— through the efforts of women volunteers who have systematically sought them out for check-ups. CREDIT for increased knowledge of facts about polio and a consequent decrease in panic, so noticeable in 1948, can be placed largely at the door of women's clubs and organizations which have made the public education program of the National Foundation part of the fabric of their health and welfare activities. Women have been outstanding, too, in the National Foundation's research and professional education programs. When Dr. Isabel M. Morgan of Johns Hopkins University reported last July at the First International Poliomyelitis Conference in New York on the successful immunization of monkeys WOMEN AGAINST POLIO against polio, she brought pride to women everywhere. Mrs. Morgan's work, with that of her colleagues, Drs. Howe and Bodian, has shed light on the role of antibodies in protection against the polio virus. While no preventive vaccine can be produced for trials in human beings until all types of polio viruses have been found, classified, and characterized—a project scheduled for the next year's work by several National Foundation supported laboratories— it is believed the Johns Hopkins experiments have provided necessary tools for an ultimate answer to protection of man from attacks of this disease. Of the dozen fields in which fellowships and _ scholarships have been awarded with March of Dimes funds, two-thirds have included women workers The fight against infantile paralySis is a joint activity of both women and men We face three factors that make the 1949
March of Dimes a crucial undertaking: 1. There are more polio patients than ever before. Some of the increase in recent years' totals of reported cases may be due to greater knowledge of 103 polio, prompter hospitalization and better care reporting. Whatever the reason, the rise in actual cases requiring assistance is real. 2. The cost of polio care has risen. Additional professional experts are required for modern care. Medical teams are developing, including, besides the physician and the nurse, the pediatrician, orthopedist, physical therapist, medical social worker, and phychological consultant. | More complete service to patients is possible. 3. The dollar does not go as far as it used to. Hospital costs have risen 10 to 12% since 1947, while the '1948
March of Dimes drive raised less than 4% more than in 1947. March of Dimes money cannot buy as much service, food, supplies, and equipment as in the past. To do the best job of taking care of polio patients, without slowing the now promising search for a solution to the disease or interfering with the training of urgently-needed hospital specialists and research workers, men and women—together —must make the 1949
March of Dimes the most successful in twelve years. The conquest of polio, lying somewhere in the years ahead, can only be achieved by such determined and energetic partnership. — Winter Pear Dorothy J. Roberts What loveliness was felled with this brave tree To leave returning robins fugitive; What grace crashed earthward, what lost melody From branches where a meadow lark would sieve Through a silver throat, the fountain of his song. Upon these boughs each season's beauty lay, In slumber pale, but straight of trunk and strong; Ephemeral in spring's samite array, Here summer lacked no leaf to cool her shade, And autumn burned a riotous color chart. When, after its bright zenith, leaves were grayed, Still amber and vermilion lit the heart, Seeing the winter fruit no limb had lost, Awaiting final favor from the frost.