[Social Science: International Strife and the Quest for Peace by Elder G. Homer Durham]

Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 7—International Strife and the Quest for Peace Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, May 25, 1949
Objective: To appreciate the part some Latter-day Saints have taken in recent political activities and the obligation resting on Latter-day Saints to teach their children the doctrines of free agency and liberty in harmony with Latter-day Saint knowledge. — — ij EVAN JENSEN FREE agency permits men to do good or evil; to construct prosperous, peaceful communities, or to war with each other. If "courtesy" and spiritual forbearance are essential to traffic safety (as suggested in lesson one), what spiritual development and "courtesy" must men with atomic bombs develop? The Millennial Hope For generations men have longed for the day when "the lamb and the lion shall lie down together without any ire," when swords shall become plowshares and spears be turned in- - to pruning hooks. Notwithstanding, some of the world's bloodiest wars have been the wars of religion. But at the same time the world's religions have helped keep alive mankind's vision of peace on earth. The ideal of the kingdom of God in the Christian religion particularly, has rendered this service. A foundation principle of Mormonism, and one of its interesting contributions to' political doctrines, is that it is now within the reach of men—and their obligation—to "bring forth and establish the kingdom of God."
This religious ideal, we have seen, has been fortified with practical devices. President John Taylor, nearly a century ago, November 24, 1855, wrote: Although the present distracted state of the world might seem to forbid the expectation of an immediate amalgamation, yet the rapid increase of means of communication, the sure and decided comingling of interests, a universal exchange of sentiment, an increasing desire among mankind to shake off the shackles of despotism and enjoy the liberty of speech and conscience—all conspire to show that such a combination of circumstances must eventually result in some kind of universal government—moral, religious, and political (The Gospel Kingdom, page 303). A few years later, January 17, 1858, the same leader stated: The germs of this peace are with us; the LESSON DEPARTMENT intelligence conceming these matters has begun to be developed (Ibid., page 305). Section 65 of the Doctrine and Covenants, speaking of the restoration of the "keys of the kingdom" to man on the earth, declares: Wherefore, may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven. May come And the Tenth Article of Faith states simply that we believe "the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory." Practical Idealism If the peoples of the world understood each other better, their geography, living habits, governmental systems, and social customs, the technological revolution _ referred to by President John Taylor might well "result in some kind of universal government." But the world, as also noted by Joseph Smith and many Latter-day Saint leaders since 1830, is "split up and divided into - different objects... And watching each other as so many thieves" (The Gospel Kingdom, page 299).
Instead of understanding, misunderstanding is too often promoted as each nation controls its own press, schools, films, radio, and other massmedia. In rather sharp contrast, the Latter-day Saints, since the day in 1830 when Samuel H.
Smith strapped some copies of the Book of Mormon on his back, have, by means of the missionary system, systematically exploited the possibilities of international understanding.
Particularly has this been true among the countries of Northwestern Europe, Australia, South Africa, Mexico, certain Pacific isles, and, more 135 recently, Argentina and Brazil. A continuous stream of missionaries has gone forth, and until about 1925, a continuous flood of immigrants poured into the Latter-day Saint communities. As a result, Stephen Duggan, for many years director of the Institute of International Education, said that Salt Lake City was the center of international understanding. Latter-day Saint missionaries have, by themselves, negotiated no remarkable international agreements, but the contribution, even at the diplomatic level, has by no means been insignificant. On the authority of Elder Don Corbett, a major in the United States Army, it was a former Latter-day Saint missionary to Germany, Dr. David White, who translated the surrender terms imposed by General Dwight D.
Eisenhower on General von Rundstedt and the German High Command, May 1945; and who, moreover, by his skill, corrected several details in the German-Allied correspondence which were of major importance. A Utah-born diplomat from a famous missionary family, Cavendish W. Cannon, was one of the expert consultants present at the 'TrumanStalin - Churchill - Attlee meeting which produced the Potsdam agreement of July 1945. A former missionary, Colonel Floyd W. Goates, was actively in charge of certain Japanese educational activities in the reconstruction of Japan. A young missionaty, Thomas W. Thorsen, was a detachment commander in the United States military government set-up in Europe, and produced an eighteen-volume memorandum on Norway's economy which tated him 

136  a decoration by the Norwegian government. Dr. Dale D.
Clark of Farmington, a former.
Missionary to Germany, was active throughout the war in the planning section of the SHAEF (Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Forces) and later saw active responsibility in the reconstruction of Austria and Germany. And the recent examples could be multiplied—such as _ the work of Dr. Llewellyn R. McKay, Paul W. Hodson, Stanley D. Rees, and Eldon J. Facer—all former missionaries to Germany, in the Strategic Bombing Survey of 1945.
Even more interesting and subtle, have been the contributions of such Latter-day Saint missionary products as Reed Smoot, Elbert D. 'Thomas, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Edgar B.
Brossard and others. Dr. John Mabry Matthews, in his volume on American Foreign Relations, states without hesitation that the nowfamous "good neighbor policy" stems from the work of J. Reuben Clark, Jr., as Undersecretary of State, citing in particular President Clark's official report, Memorandum on the Monroe Doctrine (1928), as an important basis therefor. Dr. Hubert Herring has told many a lecture audience that the real shift toward improved American relations with Latin-America dates from the ambassadorships of Dwight W.
Morrow and J. Reuben Clark to Mexico. Too often overlooked in the current interest in nations to the south is the fact, also, that as an official American representative, President Clark, many years ago, as General Counsel for the United States before the American-British Claims Commission, assisted in solving some of the oldest and touchiest problems between the United States, England, and Canada; involving fishing rights in the North Atlantic and other long-standing controversies. The influence of Reed Smoot in the international financial arrangements of the twenties and the Hoover moratorium policies, is a story yet to be told. The unique oriental missicnary experience of Senator Elbert D.
Thomas was put to many uses before, during, and after World War I{—not to mention his many European conferences as an Official American delegate. After World War II, when America was being asked for loans and credits to promote European recovery, it was interesting to observe that one of three American representatives negotiating the original post-war British loan was at one time a Latter-day Saint missionary to Scotland, Marriner S. Eccles, the chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. And one of the American delegates to the Geneva Conference of 1947 designed to establish an International Trade Organization was Dr. Edgar B. Brossard, former missionary to France, and at that time, chairman of the United States 'Tariff Commission. All of these persons, together with hundreds of others unnamed, may or may not have been conscious of the root doctrines of American Latter-day Saint political theory as they discharged their official duties. But none will gainsay the fact that the day-by-day living experiences they had as missionaries with the common people of Northwestern Europe, or that were their traditions as LESSON DEPARTMENT members of communities and families into which such experience constantly was being kneaded, could not help but contribute to a deeper understanding of the essential problems of international life. If the present rate of missionary work continues (it could exceed it!) by 1970—a date comparable with the period between World War I and II—it is possible that, in addition to these of the past, there can be 75,000 additional men and women who will have experienced active Latter-day Saint missionary work. In 1970 they will be the vigorous citizens and community leaders who will face the world.
Their contribution, with other men and women of good will the world over, including those whose lives they may touch, may well tip the balances for peace or for war. Moreover, many members of this young "army" will have — been "ambassadors" of the United States and of constitutional government, and of a way of life that teaches liberty, tolerance, generosity, and forbearance. The cumulative effects on world opinion and American diplomacy— if this work is well done—are not to be overlooked.
Most of the Western Hemisphere, save for the Northeast, was largely "conquered" by Spanish priests—missionaries—in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.
Much of Asia and Africa became provinces of the British Empire in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, in which the work of the "Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts" and other British missionary societies were by no means inconsequential. Yet, no one need fear the Latter-day Saint 137 missionary abroad! He asks nothing save from those who voluntarily would like to be immersed in water, and who thereafter remain free men, "believing in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates." And he pays his own way, which nowadays helps the dollar balances so nervously sought after by foreign governments!
Opportunity of Latter-day Saint Mothers What can a Latter-day Saint mother do? She can study and understand the gospel, including its application to the problems involved in socialism, communism, and international relations. She can teach the meaning of liberty and free agency to her children. She can make of her family, with the father's help, a model of constitutional government. She can help conduct the "foreign relations" of that family with other families, Latter-day Saint and non-Latter-day Saint, so as to produce a happier community. She can teach her children the principles of good government by teaching them individually to pray, and by insisting on family prayers. She can help educate her sons ("the glory of God is intelligence!" ) and send them on missions. She can point out that liberty is earned; that it has obligations. The family hearth may become the center of a continuous school, not only in constitutional government and sound _ political theory, but for all problems of society, by reminding one and all that life is what we make it; that the kingdom of God men seek in outward environment, is within each one of us, as Jesus taught. 138 Ww.
Recall the Questions for Discussion. If the great "millennial hope" of world government should be realized, and you were called upon to help frame it, what principles should be included therein?
Influence of missionary movements in world affairs of the past, and have the class discuss them. For example, Paul of Tarsus and his companions; St. Augustine's traditional mission to Britain; various modern British mission movements (such as the establishment of Dartmouth College in  eatly America; Livingston in Africa, etc.); Marquette and Joliet, the Spanish fathers, in the expansion of Europe in the Americas..
What may be the unique opportunities of missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints?.
Need any modern government fear the presence of missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints?
Need any person?.
What can a Latter-day Saint mother do to promote the cause of good government?
Peace and safety in society?
Economic well-being? Optional Kotene Ga Aiote of Social Sctence—The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions ) Lesson 7—The Presidency of Lorenzo Snow Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, May 25, 1949
Tue Preswency A Unir—Tue THreeE ARE ONE Lorenzo Snow George O. Cannon Lorenzo Snow Joseph F. Smith Rudger Clawson already served the Church for sixtytwo years. Elder Snow was born in Mantua, Ohio, in 1814, and although reared in a family of devout HEN Wilford Woodruff died in 1898, he was succeeded by Lorenzo Snow, a man who had LESSON DEPARTMENT Christians, had failed to find satisfaction in any of the religious denominations of the day. He had ambitions to become a professional military leader, and enrolled in Oberlin College, a strict Presbyterian institution. From there he wrote to his sister Eliza R. Snow, "If there is nothing better than is to be found in Oberlin College, goodbye to all religions." He desired to study Hebrew and finding that it was possible to secure Hebrew instruction in nearby Kirtland, went there. He was indifferent to the religious beliefs of his colleagues, but after only a short acquaintance with the Prophet Joseph, he joined the Church in June 1836. The military career was forgotten and he became a soldier in the army of God, fighting for the establishment of the kingdom of God on earth. © He brought to the councils of leadership in the Church a great deal of practical experience, acquired in the service of the Church. During the winter of 1846-1847, he was left in charge of the temporary camp of the saints at Mt. Pisgah, Iowa. Here he manifested great ability as an organizer, utilizing the various capacities of the members to manufacture, churns, barrels, etc., which they sold or exchanged for food. He also delegated others to labor in Missouri and take their wages in foodstuffs. So successful were these ventures that during the winter, the once destitute and starving saints were able to send gifts of food to the saints at Winter Quarters. It was not until 1848 that Lorenzo Snow migrated to the Salt Lake Valley. In February 1849 he was called to be one of the twelve apostles
139 H SMITH Prophet-Statesman By Dr. G. Homer Durham A BOOK THAT SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME JOSE An Essential Reference - for the two-year course of study in Social Science
BOOKCRAFT 1186 So. Main Salt Lake City 4, Utah WE RECOMMEND That Your Complete Orders For Music Be Sent To Us For Prompt Attention 7 7 KS SOHMER—STORY AND CLARK— AND OTHER FINE PIANOS WURLITZER ORGANS—4 MODELS yY Write to MR. SELDON N. HEAPS Summerhays Musie Co. 17 W. First South Salt Lake City 1, Ut.
140 RELI Sete ¥ RIGHT HANDY You are just a step or two from your car when you shop at Sears. No long walks with heavy bun- — dles, no parking tickets to bother with. Main or State at 8th South Salt Lake City, Utah Dial 5-6651
Park Free RIVE ELECTRICALLY @UC THs Oifference/ AT THE CLICK OF A SWITCH Electricity does it better, faster and at low cost. GO ALL-ELECTRIC BUY FROM YOUR DEALER UTAH POWER EF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 and was appointed to open Italy for missionary work.
Arriving in Italy in June 1850, he labored with great energy among the Waldensian sect in the Piedmont Valley. Elder Snow was instrumental in having the Book of Mormon translated into Italian and also wrote a number of missionary tracts. He directed the opening of the mission in Switzerland where much success was enjoyed, and then went to the island of Malta for the same purpose.
From this point he arranged for the opening of missionary work in British India.
Returning from these missiona endeavors he was called to take fifty families and settle Brigham City.
There he established his home and lived for forty years. It was while he resided at Brigham City that the "United Order" of co-operative enterprise was introduced and met with a high degree of success. The city was a self-sustaining community, with about forty diversified industries, producing many fine manufactured goods ranging from linen collars, broadcloth suits and silk hats, to kid gloves and dress shoes, cheese, furniture, and wagons. Lorenzo Snow was eighty-five years of age when he became President of the Church on September 13, 1898, just eleven days after the death of President Woodruff. In spite of his advanced age, he enjoyed good health and the manner in which he attacked the problems facing the Church indicates that the Lord had called one to preside whose training in practical affairs would be of great benefit to the Church. "I do not want this admin- & LIGHT Go.
Istration to be known as Lorenzo Snow's administration," he states, LESSON DEPARTMENT "but as God's in and through Lorenzo Snow." The most pressing problem was that of financing the Church. Dur. Ing the years of persecution the Church income had dwindled almost to nothing and it had been necessary to borrow money to keep the Church operating. President Snow determined to issue $1,000,000 in short-term bonds to raise money to keep the Church's various missions, temples, and administrative activities functioning.
Although some insisted it would be necessary to do this in the East, President Joseph F.
Smith insisted it could be done locally, and the entire amount was subscribed within Utah. The next problem was to secure for the Church a steady source of income that would repay the bonds and give the Church sufficient income to maintain itself. Joseph Fielding Smith describes the reason for the falling off of Church income during these years as follows: During the time of trouble with the government over the question of plural marriage, and especially after the confiscation of the property of the Church, the members of the Church quite generally became lax in the payment of their tithing.
They were discouraged.
Their leaders were either cast into prison or forced to seek the quiet of retirement from public duties.
Under these conditions the members of the Church were neglected. Moreover, realizing that their means turned into the treasury of the Church as tithing were greedily seized upon by unscrupulous officials and for these and other reasons, they became neglectful of duty especially in regard to the payment of their tithes and offerings (Life of Joseph F. Smith, page 307).
Immediately after becoming President of the Church, President Snow began a campaign to awaken
141 VT VV VV VV VY wwwww Son?
Collections that should be in EVERY HOME For a community sing or an intimate family gathering, you will find the good old songs everyone enjoys singing in these fine collections. America Sings 50 188 patriotic songs, hymns, and folk tunes. Merrily We Sing 00 176 old favorites including M-OT-H-E-R, Peggy O'Neil, K-K-KKaty, etc. Kate Smith's Hymns for the Home __..50 A collection of the world's most famous hymns. The Everybody Sing Book 90 A real American collection of songs for school, home, and community. 101
Hymns of the Hour of Charm.50
The result of a popular demand for a collection of the hymns sung. By the famous all-girl chorus. We specialize in music for L. D. S. Choral groups of all types. Write for information. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. Prices quoted include postage. We also have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home and school, Representatives for Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, records, and musicians supplies. Ap FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY: é 45-47 SOUTH C, MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH y ow N 

142  the saints to their responsibility in this matter. At a solemn assembly convened in the Salt Lake Temple, he said: Teach your children to pay tithing, so that it may be perpetually observed. If we observe this law, no matter what-our enemies may do, the Lord will preserve us... Should we continue in this dilatory way of paying tithing, we will be scattered just as the people of the Jackson County were, This is true as God is true. While speaking at the Mutual Improvement Conference that year, he appealed to them for their support in sustaining the principle of tithing. At the conclusion of his discourse the following resolution was presented to these representatives of neatly every stake in the Church, and unanimously adopted by them: Resolved: That we accept the doctrine of tithing, as now presented by President Snow, as the present word and will of the Lord unto us, and we accept it with all our hearts; we will ourselves observe it, and we will do all in our power to get the Latter-day Saints to do likewise. The remainder of the year 1899 became a year of tithe-preaching and tithe-paying throughout the stakes and missions of the Church. As a consequence, the people became _"tithing-conscious" and commenced to return to the Lord his portion of their material blessings. President Snow did not live long enough to see the complete rewards that resulted from this new emphasis, but he saw the first fruits of this divinely inspired reformation. During the administration of President Snow his counselors did all in their power to spare their President's waning strength by assuming as much of. The arduous work of the Presidency as they could. President Cannon traveled extensively throughout the Church, visiting stake conferences, dedicating chapels and giving counsel in spiritual and temporal affairs. In 1900 he went to Hawaii to attend the golden jubilee of the opening of the missionary work in that land, of which he had been one of the originators. He received a welcome upon arrival such as had, up to that time, never been accorded any visitor to the islands. President Cannon died rather suddenly while resting in California on Aptil 16, 1901. President Snow did not appoint another counselor then, but had President Smith take over as much of the responsibility of President Cannon as he could. President Smith also traveled extensively in the wards and stakes and in addition during these years visited the colonies of saints in Mexico, Arizona, New Mexico, and Canada, as well as a number of the mission fields. 'These visits were made to carry to these scattered saints the new emphasis upon tithing and to assist them in making plans for their future growth and the expansion of Church missionary work. At the October Conference in 1901
President Snow selected President Smith to be the first counselor in the Presidency and Rudger Clawson, one of the Council. Of Twelve, to be the second counselor. They were never set apart to these offices however, as President Snow died four days after conference, on October 10, 1901. His passing brought to a close an administration that placed the Church on a sound financial basis which has provided LESSON DEPARTMENT the necessary means for the remarkable growth in its missionary activities, temple and chapel building, educational endeavors, its hospital services and numerous charities that have characterized it in the twentieth century.. Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. What caused the general non-observance of the law of tithing on the part of the Church membership prior to 1899? 2. Why is it essential that the saints be constantly reminded to pay an honest tithing? 3. What lasting benefits have come to the Church and its membership as a result of President Snow's stimulation of tithe-paying? 4. Relate President Snow's account of his spiritual manifestation after he joined the Church as recorded in the Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow, pp. 7 and 8. (Also reprinted in Robert's Comprehensive History of the Church, VI, PP. 383-384). 5. Read the Rev. Dr. Prentis's estimate on the character and spirituality of Lorenzo Snow, found on Pages 96 and 97 of Cow ey: Prophets and Patriarchs, 6. Make a report on the view held by President Snow concerning the mission of the Twelve and the Seventy in the Church. (See Comprehensive History of the Church, VI, pp. 376-380). References Cowtry, Matrutas F., Prophets and Patriarchs, pp, 86-98. Roserts, B. H., Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. V. Pp. 217, 218; Vol, VI, pp. 356-360 and 375-385. SmitH, Exiza R. SNow, Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow. SMITH, JOsEPH Fiexpinc, Essentials in Church History, pp. 614-622. SMITH, JosEPH Fre. Pinc, Life of Joseph F. Smith, pp. 302-313. Improvement Era, Vol. 51, page 12 (Jan. 1948) "Vaudois Revisited," by Archibald F, Bennett.
143 BUY YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MUSIC FROM US Angels Serenade—338] Century Piano Solo Can be used as accompaniment to the chorus number. Angels Serenade # 463
Century Violin and Piano Will provide a beautiful violin obligato to the chorus number, 20c per copy Plus postage GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. SALT LAKE CITY > Aaa —. —.._, 2. Professional miates Sieial Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND _ BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29
Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah ON Nt nt I, wv From Near and Sar Mrs.
Teacle isn't a member of our Church but has taken the Magazine for many years and enjoys it very much.
Somehow the Magazine agent neglected to call on her earlier, but I hope that even at this late date, she can still be on the list. Our sisters all look forward to the arrival of the Magazine and feel that the material printed therein is very excellent. —Blanche K. Richmond, President, Australian Mission Relief Society I would like to tell you how much The Relief Society Magazine means to me. My husband and I were converts to the Church twenty-six years ago, shortly after the birth of our third child. We now have a family. Of twelve, seven daughters and five sons. For a few years after we became members we had missionary elders working in our district occasionally, then we moved away and had no contact with the Church.
Through this period I was helped many times by The Relief Society Magazine. The stories and articles printed in it were a constant source of inspiration to me. I would not miss being a subscriber to the Magazine, even if the price increased fourfold.
Money could not give me the comfort and assurance that the Magazine gives to me from between its valued pages. —lIrene E. J. Edwards, Paterson, Australia I have never wished I were a woman, nor anything else other than what the Father in heaven has begotten me to be. Still, I often think were I a woman and could have part in the heavenly work our Relief Society sisters are doing, then I'd be too happy and busy to wish I were anything else.
Generally it is I who go to the door when the postman arrives and on days when The Relief Society Magazine is received, don't suppose for a minute that I toss it to Sister M. Oh no, it's probably the only time in our home when daddy asserts his dignity, or needs to, for that matter. But just ask Sister Mitchell if I don't simply glue myself to that little Magazine for an hour or so. But being clever, as Relief Society sisters are wont to be, she sweetly busies herself about the living room, but one can tell her covetPage 144 ing little heart is wishing you at the office would print the Magazine in some strictly feminine language which husbands couldn't decipher. —Bert C. Mitchell, Salem, Oregon I thought this was too good to keep to myself. I went to meeting Tuesday.
Before the lesson started I raised my hand and said "I want to say a few words for The Relief Society Magazine.
This is the last call as orders must be in one month ahead. Now, sisters, let me help you all with your Christmas shopping.
There is nothing nicer than a year's subscription to the Magazine for a present. I will be sitting at that table when the meeting is over waiting for your orders." And was I surprised to get twenty orders. I am happy to talk about the Magazine. —Charlotte O'Connor, Hollywood, California There is no book large or small that brings so much fine material for everyone who reads it, as the little Relief Society Magazine. —Allie R. Berry, Quemado, Texas Christie's poem in the Christmas issue is beautiful ("The Christmas Dream'"— Frontispiece, by Christie Lund Coles). ° I always appreciate her rhyming and use of words. —Ruth Harwood, Pasadena, California Little | Books Tribute to The Relief Society Magazine Anna S. W. Gould Little books, like little songs, Help me as I go along Life's way.
Little books, placed here and there, On a table or a chair Every day.
With a minute here to spare I take my book from off the chair And read. A good thought here, another there ~ I smile and say, "I'll not despair." No, indeed! For a Sense of ACHIEVEMENT Own and READ "SHARING THE GOSPEL WITH OTHERS" ooo52.00
Gems from President George Albert Smith's addresses. Selected by Preston Nibley "PROGRESS OF MAN" _52.90
The history of the Lord's dealings with man.
By Joseph Fielding Smith "GOSPEL STANDARDS" __.. 2.2.20
Gems from President Heber J. Grant's addresses. Selected by G.