[Literature: Literature of the Prophet's Closing Years by Elder Howard R. Driggs]

Literature—Lterature of the Latter-day Saints Literature of the Gospel Restoration Lesson 8—Literature of the Prophet's Closing Years Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, May 17, 1949 THe time from Liberty Jail to mar (Scrapbook of Mormon Literature, tyrdom at Carthage—a period Ben E. Rich, Il, page 6). Of about five years—was crowded 4s former lesson mention was ture portraying the spirit and activlvealed irr the prief story of his life by ties of the saints during that period himself, and also of the Articles of is of somewhat different cast from Faith.
That of earlier days.
Much of it, so Another outstanding work, wtitfar as the leaders were concerned, ten not for publication, but exprescame largely in the form of writings sive of the Prophet's thoughts and to promote the Church at home and feelings he called the "Law of the abroad. Two paper the Times and Lord." In this personal book loving Seasons, at Nauvoo, and the Miltribute is paid to his loyal wife, Jennial Star, ln Liverpool, England, Emma; to his beloved brother, Hycarried Tews and articles through Tum, for whom he prays, "Oh may the years. To expound the printhe Eternal Jehovah crown eternal ciples of the restored gospel, defend _ blessings upon your head, as a 1& it against lts enemies, and to guide ward for the care yOu have had for the saints in righteous living, were ~™Y soul."
Also to Newel K.
Whit major purposes.
Civic problems of ney, to whom he says, "Thou art a From the Prophet himself came whom I have loved stronget than notable expressions in written form, death. To them | have proved characteristic humility, the Prophet DH. V, 107-8).
Acknowledged the hand of the Lord In the year 1842, Joseph Smith in these accomplishments. "Tama Was rejoicing in a full measure of rough stone," he said. "The sound success and reward for his sacrificial of the hammet and chisel were nev Jabors and his soul-testing sufferings er heard on me until the Lord took for the gospel s sake. The Church me in hand. |!
Desire the learning he had founded amid such travail LESSON DEPARTMENT al, even world power and influence.
Well could he radiate gladness and humble thanksgiving and praise to God.
Unhappily days of trouble and tragedy were soon to follow. Mark Twain, in his characteristic style once said something which seems to apply aptly to the situation in those palmy days: "Few of us can stand prosperity; another man's I mean."
Nauvoo had become the largest, most thriving city in Illinois. The Latter-day Saints held the balance of political power; and that brought jealousy and strife, both within and without the Church.
Literature produced during this time naturally was not only in vigorous defense of the principles of the restored gospel, but also was often directed towards building up Amenca with better, more righteous govermment. In other words, Joseph Smith and those who stood loyally with him, rising above petty politics, expressed themselves boldly and clearly on fundamental principles of true Americanism.
Some such utterances by the Prophet are statesmanlike: The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is a heavenly banner; it is like a great tree under whose branches men from all climes can be shielded from the burning rays of an inclement sun: and Mormon as well as Presbyterian, and every other denomination have equal rights to partake of the fruits of this great tree of our national Liberty. We believe that every man should be honored in his station rulers and magistrates, as such, being placed for the protection of the innocent, and the punishment of the guilty; and that to the laws, all men owe respect and deference, as without them peace and harmony would be supplanted by anarchy and terror; human laws being instituted for the express 131 purpose of regulating our interests as individuals and nations (Scrapbook of Mormon Literature, II, pp. 6-9). The Prophet's plan for resolving the slavery problem in a peaceable way, through purchase and resettlement of these unfortunates, is an example of his grasp and forwardthinking on national issues.
Eleven years later, when Ralph Waldo Emerson proposed essentially the same procedure, he won acclaim from the Nation. And at the time Josiah Quincy wrote that this way out of a serious difficulty had been offered more than a decade before by the Mormon Prophet, Joseph Smith, and his statement was _ received in silence.
Until the flames of war came, people were not ready to listen. Nor in those fateful days of 1843- 44, would they hearken—the Nation at large—to the inspired words of this leader. Instead, malicious ones of religious creeds, and unscrupulous politicians banded together to bring destruction to this Prophet and the Church he had founded.
Aided by traitors within the membership, these evil ones finally wrought their wicked will.
Literature portraying the waxing strife and the aftermath of Carthage is readily available. Joseph Smith went, as he said: "Like a lamb to the slaughter, but," said he, "I am calm as a summer's morning; I have a conscience void of offense toward God, and towards all men. I shall die innocent, and it shall yet be said of me—he was murdered in cold blood." Out of this tragedy literature of soul-lifting cast has been created. The following by Apostle Orson Hyde reaches literary heights: 
132 
Twenty-seventh of' June, 1844.
Eventful period in the calendar of the nineteenth century!
That awful night! I re member it well: I shall never forget it!.
Thousands and tens of thousands will never forget it! A solemn thnll—a melancholy awe comes o'er my spirit! 'The memorable scene is fresh before me! It requires no art. Of the pencil, no retrospection of history, to portray it. The impression of the Almighty Spirit on that occasion will run parallel with eternity! The scene was not portrayed by earthquake, or thunderings, and lightnings, and tempests; but the majesty and sovereignty of Jehovah was felt far more impressively in the still, small voice of that significant hour, than the roaring of many waters, or the artillery of many thunders, when the spirit of Joseph was driven back to the bosom of God, by an ungrateful and bloodthirsty world!
There was an unspeakable something, a portentious significancy on the firmament and among the inhabitants of the earth.
Multitudes felt the whisperings of woe and grief, and the forebodings of tribulation and sorrow that they will never forget, though the tongue of man can never utter it. The Saints of God, whether near the scene of blood, or even a thousand miles distant, felt at the very moment the Prophet lay in royal gore, that an awful deed was perpetrated. O, the repulsive chill! The melancholy vibrations of the very air, as the prince of darkness receded in hopeful triumph from the scene of slaughter!
That night could not the Saints sleep, though uninformed by man of what had passed with the Seer and Patriarch, and far, far remote from the scene; yet to them sleep refused. A visitation—the eyelids refused to close—the hearts of many sighed deeply in secret, and inquired, "Why am I thus?" Shall I attempt to describe the scene at Nauvoo on that memorable evening? If I could, surely you would weep, whatever may be your faith or skepticism, if the feelings of humanity are lodged in your bosom: all prejudice and mirth would slumber, till the eye of pity had bedewed the bier, and the heart had found relief in lamentation. But here I must pause; my pen shall touch lightly, as it must feebly, that hallowed—that solemn and ever-memorable hour! The holy and immutable principle of retribution for crime that dwells eternally in the bosom of God, insensibly impelled the right hand almost to draw the glittering sword, and feel the sharpness of the bayonet's point and its fixedness to the musket's mouth. But the well-planted principle of self-command, and also of observing the order of Heaven and the counsel of the Priesthood, soon returned the deadly steel to the scabbard; and the victorious triumph of loyalty to God, in committing. Evil-doers to Him that judgeth righteously, and who hath said, "Vengeance is mine, and I will repay" prevailed over the billows of passion. (Scrapbook of Mormon Literature, I, pp. 283-285).
Among the first expressions of praise and exultation was the song, already mentioned from the pen of W. W. Phelps, a stanza of which we repeat: Hail to the Prophet, ascended to heaven Traitors and tyrants now fight him in | vain; Mingling with Gods, he can plan for his brethren; Death cannot conquer the hero again. A wealth of songs extolling the Prophet may be found—some of them of classic quality. Naturally, also, there were other types of effective expression. From John Taylor, who was shot down, and all but killed in Carthage when Joseph and Hyrum were martyred, we have not only his vivid.
Portrayal of that tragic day, but also his poetic tribute, "The Seer"—voicing grief triumphant. The last stanza of this poem follows: He's free! He's free! The Phophet's freel He is where he will ever be, Beyond the reach of mobs and strife, He rests unharmed in endless life. His home's in the sky, he dwells with the Gods, Far from the furious rage of mobs. He died! He died for those he loved, He reigns, he reigns in the realms above.
LESSON DEPARTMENT He waits with the just who have gone before, To welcome the saints to Zion's shore; Shout, shout, ye saints his boon is given; We'll meet our martyred Seer in heaven. The following incident also brings us close to John Taylor, who became the third President of our Church. It occurred, after his wounds had healed, in Nauvoo. Major Warren was sent there by Governor Ford, to supervise in a military way the affairs of Hancock County. Word had reached this officer that the Latter-day Saint leaders had determined to do their own defending of their rights—even if. Need be to resist the law. In answer, Elder Taylor said, with the rng of Patrick Henry's "Liberty or Death" speech in his words: Major Warren, I stand before you as a man who has suffered deep injury from the citizens of this state, and consequently have some feelings. You talk, sir, about 'the majesty of the law and maintaining the law.' Why, sir, the law to us is a mere farce. For years past the law has been made use of only as an engine of oppression. We have received no protection from it. I have suffered under its cruel influence. _ You talk about your troops being efficient, supporting law and preserving peace. This tale may do to tell some, but it fails to charm us. You talk about the majesty of the law! What has become of those murderers [i. E. Of Joseph and Hyrum Smith]? Have they been hung or shot, or in any way punished? No, sir, you know they have not. With their hands yet reeking in blood, having become hardened in their deeds of infamy, knowing they will not be punished, they are now applying the torch to the houses of ae they have already so deeply injured. Major Warren tried to stop the speaker, but Apostle Taylor brushed him aside. 133
Where is the spirit of '76? Where is the fire that burned in the bosoms of those who fought and bled for liberty?. Talk about law! Sir, I stand before you as a victim of law. I feel warm on this subject—who would not? I have seen my best friends shot down while under legal protection. What is our governor? These scene' have been enacted under his supervision And you will talk to us of law and order, and threaten us with punishment for disobeying your commands and protecting our rights! What are we? Are we beasts? I tell you for one, sit, I shall protect myself, law or no law, judge or no judge, governor or no governor, I will not stand such infernal rascality, and if I have to fight it out, I will sell my life as dearly as I can (Roberts, B. H., Life of John Taylor, pp. 163- 166). Major Warren did not serve the papers he had come to serve on the twelve apostles—and the judge who had issued them thought it wise not to press the case further. Those tragic days, we are glad, have passed. They are recalled today with less fire. Yet they are not forgotten, and lessons they call to mind still bring inspiring expression. Studies and Activities 1. What lyric or other expression in literature has brought more vividly to you the spiritual meaning of the martyrdom? 2. Be prepared to give a brief quotation— just a sentence or two—which shows the Prophet's practical grasp of state and national needs. 3. What, as a final word, has this course on Literature of the Latter-day Saints contributed to you? References B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church. Smith, Joseph Fielding, Essentials of Church History. Jenson, Andrew, Historical Record. Taylor, John, The Gospel Kingdom. 
134