[Editorial: Remembrance for February by Vesta P. Crawford]

Remembrance for ei "The history of the world is but the biography of great men."—Carlyle INCE earliest times the world has been enriched by men and women who have lived their earthly days so well that their words and their deeds have been treasured down the years, illumined on the pages of time. The month of February brings to us, among many others who have contributed much to the wisdom and the beauty of the world, the anniversaries of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln whose names are household words throughout the land and whose deeds are written for long remembrance. In our uncertain days, with their problems and perplexities, it is strange to think that Washington, who lived his entire life on the eastern seaboard, yet realized the destiny of his country. He never saw the Mississippi River nor the skyward peaks of the Rocky Mountains. He could not have known the far expansion of his dream either in breadth of territory or in the development of political ideals. Yet he lived a life and left a philosohpy that have immeasurably guided the direction of the Republic. "Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest may repair," George Washington advised the Constitutional Convention in the year 1787. In his Farewell Address nearly ten years later, he said: "Of  all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports." It is a deep thought to try to evaluuate even now the place which Lincoln achieved in the annals of our Nation and in the records of the world. He lived much of his adult life in the prairie country of the Middle West. During his time many pioneer trains, including the vanguard of the Latter-day Saints, began the lonely trek to the mysterious West. But Lincoln never saw the great deserts, the snow-clad Sierras, or the sea waves on the Pacific Coast. He could not have known the strength that would come to the Nation nor the problems of world leadership which would be thrust upon it, but he did know the good way of life; he understood lasting moral principles. Now his name is known to every school child in America and the echo of it has reached beyond our land. The words which the poet Edgar Lee Masters gave to Ann Rutledge might also apply to Lincoln: Bloom forever, O Republic, From the dust of my bosom It has been said of Lincoln that he stood erect by bending over the fallen, that he rose by lifting others.
REMEMBRANCE FOR FEBRUARY
He was a plain man, with plain virtues—honesty, decision, tenacity, infinite sympathy. He died more tenderly lamented than any ruler in history, but the grief was not wholly for the way he died, but rather for the way he had lived, because of the courageous achievements of his fiftysix years of life.
Someone once said, at the end of a walk in spring, "I have grown taller 101 from walking with the trees." So it may be reasoned that all Americans, and people of other lands as well, may grow taller by weaving into the intricate strands of their own lives the words and the wisdom and the high example of the lives of great men, until that time when universal peace shall "'lie like a shaft of light across the land." —V. P. C.