[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 789 | General Feature | Social Relations — On Earth and in Heaven | Alberta H. Christensen]
SOCIAL RELATIONS — On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 1 — On Earth and in Heaven Reference: On Earth and in Heaven (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual - 1967) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To consider the general subject of law as it affects mankind, and to emphasize that through the operation of jaw an immutable alliance binds earth to heaven. INTRODUCTION It is impossible, perhaps to overemphasize the importance of law in our lives, for man has always existed within a framework of law. It operates in all areas of life and in all states of being. Neither nature nor mankind can 


 be divorced from its influence. Since the 1967 Melchizedek Priesthood lessons and the Home Evening Manual focus "upon the law and its meaning for the individual as a Church member and as a citizen," the Social Relations lessons of Relief Society will correlate with this general theme. This introductory lesson will invite discussion on the _ general subject of law as it affects mankind, emphasizing a consideration of the immutable alliance between heaven and earth. In a general discussion of law we may properly consider: (1) divine law which is associated with the creation and operation of the universe, spoken of as natural law; (2) divine commandments which are associated with man's individual development toward perfection; and (3) laws which are instituted by man, by actual legislation or developed through custom and known as "laws of the land."' Involved in all law is the factor of enforcement by authority, whether that authority be the divine will of the Creator, or as in the area of manmade laws, the compulsion of personal conscience, the authority of the tribe, the community, or the sovereign state. NATURAL LAW We associate the term natural law with the fundamental laws of creation and operation of the universe. They are basic and they are immovable for they are eternal. "The entire universe is governed by law' (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: The Progress of Man, page 26)... He hath given a law unto all 790 things, by which they move in their times and their seasons; And their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets (D&C 88:42-48). The Prophet Joseph Smith is author of the following statements regarding the universe and its operation by law:... If man has grown to wisdom and is capable of discerning the propriety of laws to govern nations, what less can be expected from the Ruler and Upholder of the universe? Can we suppose that He has a kingdom without laws?... We admit that God is the great source and fountain from whence proceeds all good; that He is perfect intelligence, and that His wisdom is alone sufficient to govern and regulate the mighty creations and worlds which' shine and blaze with such magnificence and splendor over our heads as though touched with His finger and moved by His Almighty word. And if so. It is done and regulated b. Law: for without law all must certainly fall into chaos (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING. Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Page 55). In reference to the fact that law underlies and permeates the very fabric of existence, since it is fundamental, we read_ the words of the Nephite prophet Lehi, who discussed with his son Jacob, the law of opposition in all things: And if ye shall say there is no law, ye shall also say there is no sin. If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness. And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness. And if there be no righteousness nor happiness there be no punishment nor misery. And _ if these are not there is no God. And if there is no God we are not, neither the earth; for there could have been no creation of things, neither to act nor to be acted upon... (2 Nephi 2:13). CONSISTENCY IN NATURE That the laws of nature operate with consistency is evident to those who observe carefully and who study seriously the physical world in which we live, for God's house is a house of order. This orderliness, this consistency of performance, which brings predictable results, indicates an infinitely wise Creator and reveals an adherence to his divine plan. Is it not reasonable, therefore, to say that where nature appears to us as inconsistent and capricious, it is because we do not understand all factors which constitute the law? Would a miracle be considered as such, if we knew and understood all facets of the laws which produce the miracle? The Lord, being omniscient, can perform miracles in his wisdom, however the faithful member of the Church depends on faith in times of stress in the absence of miracles. We may observe, also, that when we are in conflict with natural law, whether consciously or unknowingly, we experience the results of violation. Examples: 1. Ignorance of the burning effect of fire does not protect a child's hand from injury, if brought into contact with a flame. 2. Lack of knowledge regarding the law of gravity does not prevent one's falling earthward from a cliff. REVEALED TO ADAM Mortal man's first laws came through revelation to Adam who taught them to his children. That they were of spiritual import, defining the relationship of man's earth-experience with his ultimate destiny, may be. Implied from the following: Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, LESSON DEPARTMENT and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal (D&C 29:34). In the light of the foregoing scripture, may we say that the commandments of God _ are actually statements of divine law, obedience to which will bring and sustain man in harmony with natural laws and the will of the Creator for his children? Particularly relevant is the following modern scripture: There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated— And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is_ predicated (D&C 130: 20-21). The scripture and the truth which are basic to this irrevocable law may be so generally familiar to us that we fail to realize and consider how actual and fundamental they are, and how specifically they apply to even the small details of each day's activities. They apply also to the acquiring of qualities we wish to incorporate into our personalities. Class Involvement Discussion 1. What particular disciplines are required in order to be: sincere, kind, humble, gracious, honest, and to acquire empathy? 2. What particular disciplines are required for forgiveness? Can one forgive an injury without complying with those disciplines? No reasonable person wishes to be selfish, for he knows that selfishness alienates friends, even loved ones; he knows that selfishness deprives a person of the capacity truly to love others. 


 What are the necessary qualifications one must possess in order to fulfill the law upon which unselfishness is based? Class Involvement Discussion Discuss other personal or group blessings which require similar compliance with the laws involved. How do the familiar phrases, cause and effect and compensation in all things relate to the irrevocable law referred to in the foregoing modern scripture? The class members might consider the following life illustration: Woman A. How I wish I could play the piano as well as you do. If I could, I would accompany my husband when he sings. I have always been interested in music. Woman B. You don't really wish you could play the piano. If you did, you would. You would need, however, to have and acquire all that the laws of musicianship demand — the desire, the know-how, and consistent practicing. LAWS OF MAN The laws of man are not perfect as are the laws of God because they are not made by perfect beings. Latter-day Saints have been counseled to elect wise and just men to fill public office and to enact laws which will guarantee the inalienable nights of the individual. (D&C 101:77.) In a declaration of belief regarding governments and laws in general, we have the following: We believe... That: all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience (D&C 134:5). 792 INFLUENCE OF DIVINE WILL Although most of the posterity of Adam did not obey the divine laws which were their heritage, the influence of such laws is found in rules for human conduct which man has legislated into law through the generations. The Prophet Joseph Smith declared: It is reasonable to suppose that man departed from the first teachings, or instructions which he received from heaven in the first age, and refused by his disobedience to be governed by them. Consequently, he formed such laws as best suited his own mind, or as he supposed, were best adapted to his situation. But that God has influenced man more or less since that time in the formation of law for his benefit we have no hesitancy in believing; for, as before remarked, being the source of all good, every just and equitable law was in a greater or less degree influenced by Him. And though man in his own supposed wisdom would not admit the influence of a power superior to his own, yet for wise and great purposes, for the good and happiness of His creatures, God has _ instructed man to form wise and wholesome laws, since he had departed from Him and refused to be governed by those laws which God had given by His own voice from on high in the beginning (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 57.) ON EARTH AND IN HEAVEN The phrase "On earth and in heaven" suggests to the mind something held in common, held by both earth and heaven. In this lesson we use the implication of the phrase as being something shared for mutual benefit, as a covenant between earth and heaven — an alliance between earth-life and eternity. What constitutes this bond or covenant? What are some of the specifics which form this significant alliance? The laws of men, legislated upon earth, which honor man's inherent right of choice, contribute to this alliance between earth and heaven; also, all laws which foster in men a love of justice, and of brotherly watchcare, that motivate equitable self-sacrifice in the interest of those who are less fortunate; laws which motivate men to be better individuals and thus advance their progress toward perfection, all these help to ally earth with heaven. Latter-day Saints know that the gospel of Jesus Christ, formulated in the heavens and bestowed as a blessing to man in the flesh and also throughout eternity, operates in conformity with divine law. This gospel is a covenant between earth life and eternal life.. Class Involvement Discussion A covenant involves a_ promise. What promise in this covenant does God make? The family of man receives the promise of immortality. In addition, and on an individual basis, man is promised eternal life in the celestial kingdom, with all its attendant blessings. What promise in this covenant does man make? He promises to obey the laws upon which the blessings of the gospel are predicated. Both commandment and promise bind us to eternity. SPECIAL DELEGATED POWER Associated with the gospel is the earthly exercise of the delegated power and authority of the Priesthood. Relief Society women have studied its function. They know of and do experience its manifold blessings. Because of the sealing power of this divine. LESSON DEPARTMENT law of authority, our departed families, and the promises of heaven are brought nearer to us. Of the sealing power we read: It may seem to some to be a very bold doctrine that we talk of a power which records or binds on earth and binds in heaven. Nevertheless, in all ages of the world, whenever the Lord has given a dispensation of the priesthood to any man by actual revelation, or any set of men, this power has always been given. Hence, whatsoever those men did in authority, in the name of the Lord, and did it truly and faithfully, and kept a proper and faithful record of the same, it became a law on earth and in heaven and could not be annulled, according to the decrees of the great Jehovah (D&C 128:9). Now, the nature of this ordinance consists in the power of the priesthood, by the revelation of Jesus Christ, wherein it is granted that whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven (D&C 128:8). The President of the Church alone holds the keys of this sacred Priesthood power. Its function and use are regulated by a divine edict. Supreme in this alliance is the Savior himself — the Creator of both heaven and earth. He is the Mediator ——- man's Advocate with the Father — and he is the embodiment of divine law. How very blessed is all mankind through this alliance! For Discussion How may family members. Be taught to honor and respect civil law and to appreciate its protection and security? For Home-doing Analyze two or three virtues you would like to acquire or to improve, as to the disciplines necessary for their acquisition. Intensify your effort to acquire them, by specific and consistent action.