[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 766 | Fiction | Tell Me of Love— Chapter 4 | Rosa Lee Lloyd]
specialist in all Australia. People came for hundreds of miles for his opinions. "I have had three operations," Aunt Isabelle continued. "Each time Dr. George and my family thought I went with a group of teachers to the Art Festival in Adelaide. Once, before Dr. George went away, I went to the hospital in Perth. That is where I met your friend, Carolyn Bridges. When I saw her at the aerodrome today I wondered if she had told my secret." "No, she did not!" Julie p
rotested. "She never once mentioned your name. But she did say she had heard of Grandfather." "I should have known she was true to her profession," Aunt Isabelle said. 'The reason [ look —so—awful, right now, is_ be- cause I finally let them give me cobalt. It made me very ill. But they told me that it helps. We are always hoping for a miracle." "So am I! Aunt Isabelle. I believe in miracles. But, Aunt Isabelle," Julie scolded her gently, "why didn't you tell us? Why didn't you let us help you? Why did you bear this all alone for all these years?" Julie's voice stumbled, and she hid her face in her hands. "Why? Why?" she repeated, brokenly. "Julie — listen, dear.'"' Aunt Isabelle touched her bowed head. "Because I loved you all so much." "But Dr. George?" Julie asked. "You let him go away." "Yes, because I loved him. George and I were meant to be together. I met him when he was a young intern at the hospital here in Sydney. He would come over here, after he had been on duty all day. He would be tired with thinking of diseases and the pressures of too much work. So I didn't talk about the hospital to him. Instead, we listened to music and danced or strolled in the park, laughing and having fun. He told me that coming to see me was like finding a spring of water in the bush. He said how wonderful it was to have a sweetheart who could always laugh and sing and never complain. 'Being with you, Isabelle,' he told me, 'helps me forget all the misery I see all day long. Don't ever change, darling. It would be like having the sun tum black and the moon fall out of the sky.' " Aunt Isabelle nibbled her lower lip, nervously. "I wanted him to think of me that way; Julie.

and exchanged for pennies. We gave the children an opportunity to add to their allowances. For any unassigned tasks that a child did (providing it was something that needed to be done), or for several acts of kindness, extra buttons were added to his jar from Mr. Allowance's jar. It takes a bit of doing to teach small children to be helpful and 


 courteous, but after a couple of weeks of very few buttons left in their jars, the children learned to cooperate and they began forming better habits. As they grew older, we started each week with more buttons and 4lso assigned other tasks. "Well, now you've heard the story of how our children earn their allowances,' I told Mrs. Austin, "and you've witnessed how effective it is." "Very interesting,' said Mrs. Austin, "but you've neglected to explain the black buttons in Mr. Allowance's jar." "Oh! Yes! I must not forget that, for they play an important part, although we've only had to use one black button. One day Johnnie was seen adding an extra white button (unearned) to his jar. After fully explaining to him the unfairness of cheating, I took ten white buttons from his jar and inserted a black button. It was left in his jar until he had earned back the ten white ones he had lost. So we always keep a few black buttons in Mr. Allowance's jar, just as a reminder that it pays to be honest." Mrs. Austin smiled and said, "I like the idea—I think I'll try it." I assured her that we found our system of having our children earn their allowances a pleasant experience. We appreciate the fact that they don't ask for money. On the other hand, the children seem proud to earn their allowances. They are learning the value of money; they know it doesn't come easy, and they are learning that it takes a great deal of effort and cooperation to reap rewards.

to the top of a dresser, table, or piano to investigate; if he wants 758 to bounce he can go up over the footboard of any adult bed; if he is tired he can get himself into his crib. It is difficult, but possible, to drag his brother's big hobby horse to the side of his crib, crawl up to the saddle, stand on it, step to the horse's head, pull himself up over the crib railing, and fall down on the mattress. Drawing up the blanket and settling to sleep is easy after the precarious ascent of the Matterhorn. Of course, he is always covered with bruises because his descent is not as studied as his ascent; frequently it is not studied at all, not even contemplated. I sat with him the other day on the front seat of my automobile. The back of the seat is higher than Sean's head, but by raising his arms he could clasp his hands over the top of it, and wherever he has a handhold, he can climb. He held on to the top of the seat with his hands and pushed his body up by drawing up his knees and thrusting forward until he could get his arms over the seat back. When he was within one thrust of his destination, I clasped my fingers around his ankle to keep him from climbing higher. At once he knew what had impeded his progress. Without a cry or any show of anger, he slipped down into the seat, carefully unfolded my hand, one finger at a time, until he was free, then started all over again with the climb. He knew where he wanted to go, he knew how to get there, and he was patient with removing any obstacle in his way. He was willing to try over and over again. By every law governing success he should have gone up and over, not once but again and again. But there was one thing he didn't THE CLIMBER know. If he went over the top of that seat, he would plunge a distance almost twice his length headfirst onto the floor of the car. Since he did not know what was beyond his immediate goal, he must have thought me unreasonably opposed to his having what he wanted. I, too, have tried to climb. I have used all of the capabilities I have developed in a lifetime of trying. I know what my goal is and how to reach it. I am willing to try over and over again, and I am even patient in trying to remove the obstacles that impede my progress. But still I do not often reach the goal I'm striving toward. Does the hand that impedes my progress belong to one who knows more than I about what is beyond the immediate goal I long for with my finite mind?

I wanted to be the sunshine in his TELL ME OF LOVE life; the moon and the stars, too."' Her eyes were soft brown velvet in her pale face and her whitish hair was a halo. There was something fresh and young about her in spite of her illness. It is because she loves so deeply, Julie thought. She has so much love to give that it glows in her sweet, sensitive face. "T let him go away without me," she went on. "I could not bear to tell him. I kept hoping I would be well again." WULIE'S throat was dry and aching. How could she tell Aunt Isabelle, who was twice her age, and had been a mother to her for eleven years, that she was wrong about love and life; that she should have confided in Dr. George and her family in the very beginning of her illness. How could any woman as intelligent as Aunt Isabelle, and with her wonderful parents, be so utterly unrealistic? Hadn't she even listened to Grannie? 'Aunt Isabelle," she said, praying to say the right words, "I know you came here to Grannie's room for comfort just as I did. I can remember so many things she taught me about love and marriage; how it meant facing the world together, sharing the bitter and the sweet. Dr. George is a doctor, Aunt Isabelle. He would have helped you and taken care of you. Instead, you let him think that you didn't need him—that you wouldn't live in the outback with him. You let us all think that." Aunt Isabelle's eyes glistened with tears held back too long. They spilled over on her cheeks and her face crumpled. "Julie, Julie!" she sobbed at 


 last. "I know I have been wrong— so terribly wrong. Help me to go to George—to be near him for a little while." Julie held her tenderly in her strong young arms. "I will help you, Aunt Isabelle. All of us will help you, now that you will let us. We need you to help us, too. We need you, Aunt Isabelle." Julie stood up holding her dressing gown tightly around her. She was shivering with cold. "Try to sleep," she said, gently. "I will, too. Big Dan expects us to be at the aerodrome by five A. M. Grandfather has chartered a private plane to take us to the ranch."' THE minute the airplane took off, Big Dan took charge of everyone. Julie felt a sort of comfort in his jolly company. His eyes beamed confidence and hope. "A project like this," he said, looking around at each of them, "fis half won if we have prayerful faith in its accomplishment. John, did you bring the maps?" he asked. "Sometimes we learn a lot when we compare the country below us to the newest map. You know this country, John, about as well as I do. You come out here every month or so." "I don't know it the way you do, Big Dan," John said with a modest grin. "I supervise all the Ridgehaven properties—that is, I know approximately how many sheep we have and how much money we make. I know the Australian government owns the railways, because it's my business to use the railways. But you ask me how many rivers there are in Australia and which is the longest and I'm a mutton-head." Wally, who was sitting beside 768 Aunt Isabelle called out: '"'That's fourth grade geography, Uncle John." Then he quoted in a high, piping little boy's voice: "The Darling river is in eastern Australia and flows to the southwest and joins the Murray. It is the longest river in Australia." "Go to the head of the class," Aunt Isabelle smiled at him. "I thought you were a_ dunce, Wally." Big Dan, listening to their light banter, smiled indulgently. "Water is a very serious problem here in Central and Western Australia. We have many short rivers in the western part but nearly all of our rivers, except the Darling-Murray river system in eastern Australia depend almost entirely on rainfall. We have no great snowfalls nor springs to feed rivers as they have in other countries." Wally rolled his eyes and spread his hands. "No rain, no water," he chanted. "Say, that would make a good ballad, Julie, no rainee, no drinkee, I'm dried out and weakie."' Betz clapped her hands, keeping time to Wally's chanting voice. Aunt. Isabelle shook her head at Wally. "Now stop that, please,' she scolded. 'I'm interested in what Big Dan has to say about water conditions out here. Water is the lifeblood of any country." "Yes, Ma'am," Wally said, meekly, winking at Betz, who winked back at him. They speak the same _ nonsense, Julie thought, even though Wally is Australian and Betz is American. Little sparks of understanding pass between them like signals. She noticed, too, that Aunt Isabelle was more interested in everything today. Her eyes had lost their haunted look, and her lips were curved and ready to smile the way they used to. She has found new hope and courage and something to live for, Julie thought, gratefully. She will see Dr. George soon. Grandfather has asked him to meet the plane. "Tell us more, Big Dan," Aunt Isabelle said. "Especially about the search for underground water channels." "Some have been found in Central Australia,"' Big Dan went on. "The deepest bore is at Whitewood. It's five thousand feet deep." "What about these water experiments they are doing up on the northwest coast?" Uncle John asked. "They are trying to get the sea water underground someway and perhaps get it down to irrigate some of the bush." Bic Dan pursed his lips and shook his head. ''Not too successful, so far," he said. 'There is danger of turning the soil to salt. But, of course, they keep trying. Our engineers are trying constantly to find water. That's what our boy Ron was doing — hunting for likely underground channels. Only he was up north of Perth." There was a long, quiet moment. Julie bent her head, saying a little prayer. She knew they were all thinking of Ron, even though they tried to be jolly in the Ridgehaven fashion, in spite of their serious mission. So she lifted her head and made an effort to join the conversation. "What I'd like to know," she said to Big Dan, "is why the eastTELL ME OF LOVE ern coast of Australia has green foliage and luxuriant plants and exotic flowers; luscious fruit and vegetables all year around. That's the way it is, Betz—a lopsided continent."' Wally stood up, bowing to Aunt Isabelle. "With your permission, may I tell my scrappy little Irish cousin that Australia is an island, the largest island in the world, completely surrounded by water." Aunt Isabelle said, '"'Wally, you should respect what your cousin said." But her eyes were loving. Him. Everyone loved Wally. He is a rascal, Julie thought, but irresistible, anyway. Betz was drinking in every word he said, watching every clownish act. Julie wondered about Betz. "I want our American guest to know the truth about our country," he went on. "Please, Aunt Isabelle, let me tell Betz what I learned in the fourth grade, then I won't say anything else and will let Cousin Julie have her say again." "You mean you made it to the fourth grade?' Betz questioned impishly. "With honors,' he _ grinned. "Now, to get back to the point, Australia is bound on the north by the Timor Sea and the Torres Strait, on the east by the Pacific Ocean; on the south by the Bass Strait and the Great Australian Bight,. And on the west by the Indian Ocean. So I say it's an island. Any questions?" "Yes," Uncle Jeff laughed. "Why don't you sit down and keep still.", "It's a continent," Julie insisted, with her pixie-like smile. "You are both right,"' Big Dan 


 said. "It is the biggest island and the smallest continent in the world!" Aunt Cleo, who had been resting against Uncle John's shoulder, sat upright. "I don't think it's lopsided, Julie,' she said, smiling. "The bush has its share of beauty." Julie thought how well Aunt Tricia had taught Cleo. She could speak correctly, and with charm when she really tried. "There is so much to see and love out there," Aunt Cleo went on. "The way the sun rises out of the bush, the sparkling spinifex like stars in the grass, the gray-white mobs of sheep that mean wool and food for millions of people, the bouncing kangaroos, with their pump-handle tails, and the tall, dancing birds. So many things...." Her voice trailed off, and her wide blue eyes challenged them. "Tell me, have any of you ever seen anything more beautiful than a rainbow in the bush? What I call wonderful is running through the rainbow with the slosh of water on my feet and seeing the billabongs full of water, and knowing that the sheep and cattle will have plenty to drink. There's more to the 770 bush than most folks see at first glance." "Cleo is right,' Big Dan said, nodding his head. "You have to live in a place to love it." That seemed to end the argument. Big Dan and Geoffrey bent over an improvised table, studying the map again. Aunt Cleo went to sleep against Uncle John's shoulder. Even Wally sat down beside Betz and looked out of the window. Julie heard Betz say: "It looks like the middle of nowhereville to me." "Righto," he answered in a whisper that Aunt Isabelle heard. "But wait until you see grandfather's station on the west end. That is the bloomin' tail-end of nowhereville."' "Wally!" Aunt Isabelle corrected him. "That's not cricket. Why don't you tell Betz that the Ridgehaven properties produce thousands of bags of wool. And a great deal of wheat, and that we have banana plantations and tomatoes we send abroad." "IT know that, Aunt Isabelle, you're quite right. Quite right." He gave her an engaging grin. "I gave her the let-down first. Now I'll give her the build-up. Even if it does sound like bragging."' Julie looked at Aunt Isabelle, who was smiling tolerantly. They could both hear Wally telling Betz all of the good things he remembered about the properties and the surrounding country; the oyster beds on the beach a few miles away, and the rich crayfish. "Aunt Cleo is right about the rainbow," he added. Betz was looking at him with a bright new light in her eyes. "The rainbow out there circles the whole country," he went on dreamily. Then he laughed. "The catch is, we don't have much rain so we don't have much rainbow!"' Betz laughed with him, and Julie turned her head so she could not see them. A feeling of apprehension tightened her heart. Betz hadn't looked at Gordon or any other boy the way she was looking at Wally, as if every word he said was pure magic. Wally was engaged to Sue Ellen. Julie realized she must remind Betz about this the first time they were alone. Wally lifted his voice now, so Aunt Isabelle could hear him. "They named the township a few miles from the ranch, 'Ridgehaven Town,' because Grandfather has done so much for the aborigines and everyone else who works for him in shearing time. Does that about wrap it up, Aunt Isabelle?" "With ribbons," she answered. It was a long, monotonous ride. Julie was grateful when the TELL ME OF LOVE plane began to descend at the end of their journey. Everyone was eager to get off the plane; everyone but Aunt Isabelle. She was pale and tense and her hands twisted together. Julie knew how she felt about seeing Dr. George again. 'Aunt Isabelle,"' she said, with tender concern, ''we both need a bit of rouge and a touch of lipstick. Here—use some of mine. And let me comb through your hair. You have such beautiful hair. It's like cotton puffs. Everyone tries to have hair the color of yours, Aunt Isabelle." "You think that because you love me," she murmured. "IT do," Julie smiled. "Now promise me. The minute you see Dr. George, you give him a big, gay smile and throw him a kiss." "T promise," she said. "But Julie—what if he isn't there waiting. I—can't bear it—if he didn't come. I won't be able to go on." (To be continued) Cy A BOX OF DAYS Dorothy O. Rea NOW: My days are tidy little squares, calendared on the wall. The house is clean, ironing's done, no stray toys in the hall, His letter could come tomorrow. Or a phone call — maybe today. His room's in perfect order — in case he stops this way. THEN: The upstairs waited to be cleaned. The stairway needed washing down. But my little boy just couldn't wait. We explored the sun-drenched town. That's when ironing could wait. Beds could air the whole day long. When a child needed to be read to, or taught to sing a song. 77) Lake Mead Stake (Nevada) Singing Mothers Present Concert March 18, 1966 Mary R. Edwards, President, Lake Mead Relief Society, stands in the second row, third from the left; Almeda Deen, chorister, center front, directly behind the pulpit; Elsie Hurst, Second Counselor and assistant organist, to the right of Sister Deen; Nancy Larsen, accompanist, to the left of Sister Deen. Sister Edwards reports: " 'Let All My Life Be Music' was the theme of the first Singing Mothers concert presented in Lake Mead Stake. This was also a first for Henderson, Nevada, when eighty-six mothers of seven of the wards presented beautiful music of every type. Sisters from one of the wards traveled 180 miles round trip to participate. A choice comment came from a twelve-year old, 'Oh, I wish I were a mother, so I could sing in something pretty like that.' We were more than proud of our beautiful mothers in their black and white, with corsages of Relief Society colors. "Interspersed throughout the program were five-minute numbers from each ward, ranging from comedy to sacred themes, along with various tempos. The combined groups sang 'O Lovely Land America' by our own Sister Madsen I of the General Board and Sister Christensen. The toe tapper 'Sound of Music' and our theme song 'Let All My Life Be Music' brought to mind that in life we encounter hardships (minor chords), but we strive for something greater, 'and on a thrilling major chord, there let life end.' "' Hattiesburg Stake (Mississippi) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention and Banquet May 7, 1966 Bobbye Anderson, President, Hattiesburg Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme of the convention was 'The Key.' Beside each plate was placed a gold key chain, with a large royal blue crackled marble attached to it. A name card in the shape of a key was worn by each guest. Place cards were a gold key glued to a stand of blue, both made with construction paper, with names on the key shape. "The evening began with a greeting to the guests, followed by a banquet, which was prepared by the stake board members. After a short skit, members and guests went into the chapel for the remainder of the program. The Gulfport Singing Mothers provided the music. Counselor Estelle Blaylock presented the following awards: Edna Hewitt (Pascagoula Ward), for the visiting teacher with the longest period of service, presented with a large bunch of plastic grapes, to represent the fruits of her labors over the many years; Biloxi Ward, for having the highest percentage of visiting teaching for the year, presented with a large painting on the blue satin of the Relief Society seal; Gulfport Ward, for having the highest percentage of visiting teachers at the convention, presented with a large picture, having the lettering: 'Said Jesus, Ye Shall Do the Work Which Ye See Me Do' (lettering in gold on blue velvet). All of the awards were made by board members. "After the presentations, a talk on visiting teaching was made by Elsie Trussel, stake visiting teacher message leader. Then we all enjoyed the film 'Unto the Least of These.' Stake President Edwin H. White was the concluding speaker."