[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 729 | Special Feature | Seed Corn | Elsie Sim Hansen]
[Seed Corn Elsie Sim Hansen]

I had been visiting with grandfather for only a few minutes, when I saw him single out an ear of com and, after removing the Elsie Sim Hansen husk, he turned the ear over and over several times, and _ then, walking over to the barn door, where the sun was shining in, he adjusted his glasses and examined the ear again. When he returned he placed the ear in a small box. He tossed the other ears we had husked into a bin. I looked puzzled for a moment, and then I said, "Grandpa, why did you examine that ear of corn so carefully?' Grandpa looked serious for a moment. "'My eyesight isn't as good as it could be, and I can't take any chance of not putting good corn in this box. This is my seed corn." "What makes seed com?" I asked. "I can't see any difference in the corn." Grandpa put his hand on my shoulder. 'I can see you wouldn't make much of a farmer, Susie. Seed corn must not have any blemishes of any kind, no worms, no dry rot, and no mold." I looked at the ear I had in my hand for a second, and then I asked, "Grandpa, is there something wrong with this ear?" Grandpa took the ear and, 


 after looking at it for a moment, he answered, '"'See, here is a small kernel that has dry rot at the bottom." "But the spot is so tiny I can't see that it would make any difference after the corn was planted in the ground, as the old seed rots anyway, doesn't it?" "Yes, Susie, it does, but not before it sends up tiny new shoots like the parent seed. If the parent seed has blemishes, the new corn will probably have some also." "Why does all this corn in the bin have flaws, Grandpa, when you are so careful about the kind you plant?" Grandpa stood up straight and stretched as he spoke, "It is almost impossible to get perfect seed, Susie. I was also in a hurry when I sprayed the com the first time last spring. I didn't wait until the proper time when there wasn't any wind. Some of the spray was carried away where it couldn't do any good. That is what happens when we become impatient. It takes a lot of patience to be a good farmer." "I guess it takes a lot of patience to be a good mother and father doesn't it, Grandpa? I heard mother tell daddy that David and I would try the patience of Job." Grandpa chuckled as he sat down, "'Yes, Susie, it does take a lot of patience to do anything worthwhile in this life, farming or rearing a family." Grandpa looked at me and his gaze held mine, as I said, "Grandpa, would you say that daddy and mother were good seed?" Grandpa _ looked _ surprised. "'What makes you ask a question like that, Susie?" "You said a few minutes ago that if the parent seed was good, the new plant would be, also, and David and I sure do have a lot of flaws in us. Daddy and mother haven't any spray that they can use on us either." For a moment I thought grandpa was going to laugh at me, as his mouth quirked at the comers, but he didn't. He just said, "Yes, I think your parents are very good seed, Susie, and I used quite a number of fine sprays on your mother when she was growing up, not liquid sprays like I use on the corn, but the kind that is most useful on people." I stopped husking corn and looked up at grandpa with a feeling of relief, ""What kind of spray did you use? I don't think I have ever heard of any." Grandpa looked around me and out the barn door, as if he was trying to remember, and then he said thoughtfully, "Faith and prayer were the two I used most frequently. Understanding, and a sense of humor, self-control, and good hard work I used often. Sometimes, when one wouldn't work, I would try a combination of them all, and everything would turn out fine."