[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 779 | General Feature | Spiritual Living — How to Act Amid Persecution | Roy W. Doxey]
Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 76—How to Act Amid Persecution Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 97; 98:23-48 Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman endures persecution in a spirit INTRODUCTION In the month of July 1833, the persecution of the saints in Jackson County commenced. At the beginning of the following month, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a_ revelation which concerned primarily the saints in Missouri. (D&C 97.) He did not know what had happened to the saints in Jackson County, although he knew that trouble was possible. The Prophet was told in the revelation that many of the Church members in the land of Zion were endeavoring to learn the truths of the gospel, and upon them the Lord would be merciful at the judgment. (D&C 97:1-2.) Special commendation was given to Elder Parley P. Pratt of understanding and forgiveness. Who was conducting the School of Elders in Missouri, and who was laboring diligently to succeed in this calling. (Ibid., verses 3-5.) Elder Pratt walked about six miles, sometimes barefoot, to attend this school held in the outdoors. (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, pp. 93-94.) Not all the saints were acceptable to the Lord, for he said: The ax is laid at the root of the trees; and every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit shall be hewn down and cast into the fire. I, the Lord, have spoken it. Verily I say unto you, all among them who know their hearts are honest, and are broken, and their spirits contrite, and are willing to observe their covenants by sacrifice— yea, every sacrifice which I, the Lord, shall command—they are accepted of me (D&C 97:7-8). 


 SACRIFICE There are several meanings of sacrifice, but it seems that the one most pertinent to Section 97 is the giving up of some cherished or desired object. The sacrifice required of the saint is the giving up of everything, if necessary— even life itself. (Ibid., 97:13-15; 101:35-38.) To be accepted of the Lord means that the Lord approves of one's actions, but to remain in that condition requires continued faithfulness to commandments. As President Brigham Young points out, in the following, how trivial are some of the sacrifices we make on this earth compared with the greatness of the blessings to be received: Now, you Elders who understand the principles of the kingdom of God, what would you not give, do, or sacrifice, to assist in building up His kingdom upon the earth? Says one, "I would do anything in my power, anything that the Lord would help me to do, to build up His kingdom." Says another, "I would sacrifice all my property." Wonderful indeed! Do you not know that the possession of your property is like a shadow, or the dew of the morning before the noonday sun, that you cannot have any assurance of its control for a single moment! It is the unseen hand of Providence that controls it. In short, what would you not sacrifice? The Saints sacrifice everything; but, strictly speaking, there is no sacrifice about it. If you give a penny for a million of gold! A handful of earth for a planet! A temporary worn out tenement for one glorified, that will exist, abide, and continue to increase throughout a never ending eternity, what a sacrifice to be sure! (Journal of Discourses 1:114). CLASS DISCUSSION: Discuss "Sacrifice required in the gospel is insignificant when 780 compared to the blessings to be earned by the faithful." TEMPLE IN JACKSON COUNTY Instructions had been given that a temple should be built in Jackson County, Missouri, and the site had been dedicated, August 3, 1831, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. (D&C 57:3.) Section 97 contains a command to build this temple, and this was the sacrifice required of the people. Above all, its purpose was for the salvation of the members of the Church. It was to be a place of thanksgiving, a place of instruction, a place where the Church might be perfected in all things pertaining to the kingdom of God. This perfection would come through understanding the principles and doctrines of the gospel through the keys which had already been conferred. (Ibid., 97:10-14.) With the fulfillment of this commandment and the sanctity of that edifice being preserved, the promise of the Lord's presence was given. In that temple the pure in heart would see God. CLASS DISCUSSION: What place does the temple have in helping us to keep the commandments? IF ZION DO THESE THINGS If the saints would faithfully discharge their responsibilities as given in Section 97, great blessings would come to the Church in Zion. She would become very great and very glorious in her prosperity. Zion would be honored by the nations, never to be moved out of her place, for it was to be the abode of God. All of this was dependent upon how well Zion—the pure in heart— kept the commandments. At the time Section 97 was received, the saints were already being persecuted in Jackson County, and the order to move or to be killed had been given by the mob. Despite this situation, fully known to the Lord, he promised that if they would do as commanded, Zion could be redeemed. And, now, behold, if Zion do these things she shall prosper.... Therefore, verily, thus saith the Lord, let Zion rejoice, for this is Zion —THE PURE IN HEART (D&C 97:18, 21). The challenge to be pure in heart was complied with by many but, apparently, not in sufficient strength to warrant the blessings of Zion's redemption at that time. How many must keep the commandments in order to forestall the judgments predicted? In reference to the judgments to be poured out upon the world in the last days, President Brigham Young said if the judgments of God come upon the Latter-day Saints it will be because the majority have turned from the Lord. If six-tenths or three-fourths will keep the commandments the judgments will not come upon them. (Journal of Discourses, 10:335-336.) Appropriate to the meaning of Zion and its application to what has already been written, President Young said: We can make Zion, or we can make Babylon, just as we please. We can make just what we please of this place. The people can make Zion: they can make a heaven within themselves. When people gather here, they should come with a determination to make Zion within themselves, with the LESSON DEPARTMENT resolution that "I will carry myself full of the Spirit of Zion wherever I go; and this is the way in which I will control evil spirits; for I mean that my spirit shall have control over evil:"" and do you not see that such a course will make Zion? (Ibid., 5:4). CLASS DISCUSSION: How does ''making Zion" apply to us in our individual families and homes? COVENANTED ZION The saints in Jackson County, in 1833, as also the _ saints throughout the world today, were under covenant to build Zion, but this could be done only by having the spirit of Zion in their hearts. (D&C 6:6.) To accomplish this goal one must always be on guard against the adversary of righteousness. President Stephen L Richards categorized the present world as "self-sufficient, egotistical, materialistic, and _ skeptical,'' whereas, "The philosophy of Zion is humility, not servility, but a willing recognition of the sovereignty of God and dependence on his providence."' President Richards said that Zion is being attacked from all sides today. The attack is on our concept of personal moral purity, and, in the home, it is the curtailment of the size of the family. A serious aspect of our times is that of indifference and neglect among the membership. Zion, however, will survive, notwithstanding some will succumb to these attacks of Satan. Those, however, who feel themselves self-sufficient, do not enjoy the one great blessing for aid and comfort—the Spirit of God. (Conference Report, October 1951, pp. 110-117.) 


 SAINTS DID NOT HEED Elder Parley P. Pratt recorded in his Autobiography that the revelation numbered Section 97 was not complied with by the Church leaders in Jackson County, although there were many faithful there. Because Zion did not then consist of sufficient faithful members to bring to pass the fulfillment of Zion's destiny, "the threatened judgment was poured out to the uttermost, as the history of the five following years will show" (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, Deseret Book Company, 1950, page 96). Within that period the saints were expelled from the State of Missouri. JUDGMENTS OF THE LAST DAYS These following verses concerning the judgments to come upon the wicked apply to the time before the second coming of Christ (Conference Report, October 1917, pp. 44-45; SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Progress of Man, page 478): For behold, and lo, vengeance cometh speedily upon the ungodly as the whirlwind; and who shall escape it? The Lord's scourge shall pass over by night and by day, and the report thereof shall vex all people; yea, it shall not be stayed until the Lord come; For the indignation of the Lord is kindled against their abominations and all their wicked works (D&C 97: 22-24). In the "'Lord's Preface" to the Doctrine and Covenants, given in 1831, it is said that the time will come when peace shall be taken from the earth. (Ibid., 1: 35.) The American Civil War was the beginning war of modern 782 times. (Ibid., 87:1.) As stated in the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary: The American Civil War was only the beginning of a series of conflicts, each leading up to the world-war of 1914. This is all the more remarkable, because since the middle of the 19th century, the peace movement in the world assumed so definite proportions as to warrant the hope that there would be no war in the 20th century (page 536). During the Civil War the area of Jackson County was invaded and the land laid to waste. (B. H. Roberts, New Witnesses for God, Vol. 1, pp. 298-299.) Because of wickedness the people of the earth are to feel the wrath and indignation of the Lord. These judgments—the "Lord's scourge"—will continue until the second coming of Christ. ZION SHALL ESCAPE IF In a _ context of promised destruction upon Jackson County, in particular, and the world in general because of wickedness, the revelation then turns to the members of the Church, who are known as "Zion." Nevertheless, Zion shall escape if she observe to do all things whatsoever I have commanded her. But if she observe not to do whatsoever I have commanded her, I will visit her according to all her works with sore affliction, with pestilence, with plague, with sword, with vengeance, with devouring fire (D&C 97: 25-26). The only way of safety is through keeping the commandments. In the words of Elder Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve:... Why should we hope to escape, who have been baptized into this Church, yet ignore the commandments of the Lord? For there are among us those who do not keep the Word of Wisdom, some of us do not pay our tithing; we do not sanctify ourselves by adding unto our faith, virtue; to virtue, knowledge, to knowledge, temperance, and patience, and godliness, and _ brotherly kindness. Why should we claim exemption— we who know the truth, we who have been warned, we who will testify that we believe God has spoken—why should we escape if we do not keep the commandments of the Lord? (Conference Report, June 1919, p. 89). On the other hand, if the Latter-day Saints keep the commandments, the Lord has promised to multiply blessings upon the Church and upon her generations forever. (D&C 97:27-28.) BACKGROUND SECTION 98 Only a few days after Section 97 was received and seventeen days after the Missouri mob began their work of destruction upon the saints, the Lord revealed further information regarding the manner in which they should conduct themselves. The saints were enjoined to be patient in tribulation. Their prayers had been heard and their fulfillment would be realized. The Lord also counseled "and _ all things wherewith you have been afflicted shall work together for your good, and to my name's glory" (Ibid., 98:3). Three laws are explained in this revelation that the saints might know what the Lord commanded of the ancients, and what should be expected of us today. THE LAW OF RETALIATION The first of these laws is the law of retaliation discussed in LESSON DEPARTMENT verses 23 through 32. It requires that families in the Church bear patiently the abuse and smiting of others the first, second, and third time, but if the offense is committed the fourth time, then a warning should be given and, if necessary, the offender should be rewarded according to his works. However, if one patiently endures after the fourth time, his reward will be even greater. The doctrine of patience under persecution is the teaching of the Sermon on the Mount. (Matt. 5:21-22, 43- 44.) THE LAW OF WAR The next law is the law of war. First, we should understand that anciently the Lord told his people when they could go to war. Then they would be justified. War in itself was not the object of life, and if a nation would come against his people they should sue for peace. If, after this, the enemy did not accept this offer of peace the second or third time, the Lord would fight their battles. This promise extended to their children's children to the third and fourth generations. (D&C 28:33-38.) Ancient Israel was not to go to war until their peace offers were refused. (Deut. 20:10 cf.; 2:26- 29.) The Book of Mormon provides us with a concept of war that is consistent with the counsel given in Section 98. (Alma 48:14-16.) The Nephites believed that, notwithstanding the Lord would fight their battles if they kept his commandments, it was necessary that they do everything possible to bring about victory in war. In charging Pahoran, the governor of the land, with with- 


 holding men and supplies with which to fight the Lamanites, Moroni wrote him as follows: Or do ye suppose that the Lord will still deliver us, while we sit upon our thrones and do not make use of the means which the Lord has provided for us? (Alma 60:21). An official statement, adopted in 1831, gives the position of the Church regarding this principle: We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated. To secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience (D&C 134:5). THE LAW OF FORGIVENESS In closing Section 98, the law of forgiveness is given. This law contains the elements of the other two laws in this revelation. Repeated transgressions by one people or nation against another should be forgiven. This practice of forgiveness should be continued as long as they repent; however, if they do not repent, then the nation should bear it patiently, even unto the third time. If it happens the fourth time, they should not be forgiven and these testimonies should be brought before the Lord. Repentance should include four-fold restitution. If, however, repentance is not made, then their children unto the third and fourth generation should receive the Lord's vengeance. If the children or their children should repent, no judgment would fall upon them. (D&C 98:39-48.) As pointed out above, a nation should not engage in an offensive war, but it has the right to defend itself against those who come against her. President Charles W. Penrose counseled the Latter-day Saints against the desire to shed blood or to destroy. (Conference Report, April 1917, pp. 20-22.) Effort should be made to avert war. But if a country is drawn into a war after having tried to keep out of the conflict, every effort should be made to win the victory, as indicated in this lesson earlier. FOR CONSIDERATION How can you, as Latter-day Saint women, teach your children to be diligent and willing to sacrifice for one another and for the Church? BEING EDUCATED "Being educated means to prefer the best not only to the worst but to the second best," said a good friend and philosopher, William Lyon Phelps. Often we are put on the spot to justify an education for a person if he does not make more money than an uneducated person, and surprisingly enough, many do not. The above quotation is another good reason for having an education — to raise one's tastes, to lift standards, to help one be satisfied with only the best — the best literature, the best homemaking, the best performance in any art. Especially is it necessary for one to set a high standard in Church service. Only excellence is worthy for the Lord.