[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 772 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

abors over the many years; Biloxi Ward, for having the highest percentage of visiting teaching for the year, presented with a large painting on the blue satin of the Relief Society seal; Gulfport Ward, for having the highest percentage of visiting teachers at the convention, presented with a large picture, having the lettering: 'Said Jesus, Ye Shall Do the Work Which Ye See Me Do' (lettering in gold on blue velvet). All of the awards were made by board members. "After the presentations, a talk on visiting teaching was made by Elsie Trussel, stake visiting teacher message leader. Then we all enjoyed the film 'Unto the Least of These.' Stake President Edwin H. White was the concluding speaker." 772 material submitted for publication in this department should be sent the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society superOne annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the rial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. 1 ictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society a o eA, hi G8 od yor a OCTOBER 1966 Grant Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention April 15, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Sylvia Luck, chorister; Wilma Packer, organist; Lenore Driggs, First Counselor; Vera B. Kocherhans, President; Ruth Owen, Second Counselor; Hazel Mallory, Secretary-treasurer; Irene Taylor, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Kocherhans reports: "We held this convention for all visiting teachers of Grant Stake, and we were very pleased with the performance of our board members. One hundred twenty-five sisters were honored. The stake board presented 'And Then Came the Women,' with the Singing Mothers participating. Irene Taylor gave a tribute to the visiting teachers. Our programs for the event, printed on blue paper, and decorated with a reproduction of the organization of the first Relief Society, as represented on the 'Relief Society plate,' listed the visiting teachers in four categories: those who had served fifty to sixty years (five sisters); those who had served thirty-one to forty-five years (twenty-eight sisters); those who had served twenty-one to thirty years (thirty-eight sisters); and fifty-six sisters who had served fifteen to twenty years." New York Stake (New York), Westchester Ward ''Fashion Sew" June 3, 1966 Lyle N. Paine, President, New York Stake Relief Society, reports: "The event was titled a 'Fashion Sew' because each model wore something she herself had made, or someone in Westchester Ward Relief Society had made. The theme was 'She Walks in Beauty.' Each sister walked in beauty in a creation handmade by someone who cared enough to sew her very best. Sixty three different outfits were shown. The picture illustrates a beautiful wedding gown of white re-embroidered Alencon lace over 'peau de soie,' with elbow length veil, hand-appliqued in re-embroidered Alencon lace. Modeled by Claire Freedman. The dress was hand-sewed by Lenora Erekson for her daughter Rosalie, who was married to David Stone in the Salt Lake Temple. The pink and white roses were also made by Sister Erekson, and fashioned into a beautiful bouquet by Frances James, who is now president of Westchester Ward Relief Society. Jean Griffith was general chairman of the 'Fashion Sew.' " Hillside Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Presents ''Relief Society Royalty' May 13, 1966 Standing, center (at back): Counselor Louise W. Madsen of the General Presidency of Relief Society, representing President Belle S. Spafford; seated at the right of Sister Madsen: Barbara Smith, program chairman, and member Hillside Stake Relief Society Board. Seated, in front, at the left, left to right, stake board members: Evelyn Broschinsky; Sarah Summerhays; Lu Beesley; Ruby Ockey; standing, at left (near the steps), board members: Margaret Kay and Marian Johnson. Seated, at the right, left to right, executive officers of Hillside Stake Relief Society: President Leah C. Wood; Counselors Elda J. Bergesen and Luana G. Henderson; Secretary-Treasurer Helene J. Oman. Sister Wood reports: "Hillside Stake Relief Society presented 'Relief Society Royalty' in the Relief Society Building, May 13, 1966. The nine women who have served as General Presidents of Relief Society were portrayed, and two narrators helped to tell the story. More than 350 women met together in the lovely building, and were picturesquely taken back to the very beginning of Relief Society, up to the living present. The stake Singing Mothers provided the music. Brunch was served. The success of this function might be measured by the large group who came to review the inspiring background of this great organization, and become better acquainted with the women who have stood at its helm." 


 Grand Junction Stake (Colorado), First Ward Presents Style Show at Closing Social May 5, 1966 Models, left to right: Rae Jones; Marion Pond; Katheryn Curtis (daughter of Mr. & Mrs. Verl Curtis); Gladys Brosius; Melva Sorensen, sewing class instructor. Josephine Prinster, President, Grand Junction Stake Relief Society, reports: "As a special feature of their closing social, the Grand Junction First Ward presented a style show of garments completed in the Relief Society tailoring class. The instructor, Sister Sorensen, attended an adult education class at the local junior college, and then met with the sisters to share with them the skills she had learned. Several sisters who participated in the class were not present when the picture was taken. Helen Christensen is homemaking leader; Geneva Darnell is president, with Lola Peterson and Lorraine Hall as her counselors." Union Stake (Oregon), Pilot Rock Branch Sponsors Quilt-Making Project Left to right: President Dona Jo Goold; Arlene Lee; Marilou Hutchison; Ann Crump; Doris Hadden; Velma Last, homemaking leader; Cleona Wendler; Lena Edvalson. Marion Heilner, President, Union Stake Relief Society, reports: "For the past several years, the sisters of the Pilot Rock Branch have done quilting as a building-fund project. The most recent quilt, the one pictured above, was finished for Mrs. Al Ullman, wife of the Representative in Congress from Oregon, living at the present time in Washington, D. C. The quilt top had been pieced by Mrs. Ullman's grandmother. The colors are red, white, and blue. Since there is no chapel in Pilot Rock, the quilting is done in the homes of the sisters, and finished up as soon as possible after being put on the frames. The quilt illustrated above was quilted in one week. "The Pilot Rock Branch leads Union Stake in membership percentage and attendance most of the time. The sisters have ideas for a successful Relief Society, and they carry them out with enthusiasm. Sister Dona Jo Goold, wife of the branch president, has served as Relief Society president for several years." Taylor Stake (Alberta, Canada) Relief Society Board Directs Display and Fashion Show for Social April 30, 1966 Seated, in front, left to right: Alberta Dudley, First Counselor; Vinessa Hamilton, President; Ruth Rice, Second Counselor; Jean Wheeler, chorister. Standing, back row, left to right: Afton Keeler; Lyda Poulson; Colleen Low; Jill Harker; Margaret Hindley; Loretta Dahl; Avilda Harker. Sister Hamilton reports: "The hall was attractively decorated in a spring theme, with each display booth sponsored by one of the wards or branches, and each accentuated our theme 'Relief Society in action.' The booths displayed: Christmas ideas, kitchen articles, art (including water colors and oils by our very talented artists), patio furniture, flower arrangements, sewing items for use by all members of the family, miscellaneous needlework, knitted and crocheted articles, including many lovely dresses, suits, and coats; children's party ideas, children's rooms and doll furniture; and a wedding setting, featuring a bride in her own beautiful gown against a background picturing the Alberta temple, and including her trousseau. "A musical program was held in conjunction with a most inspiring fashion show of teenage and adult fashions, and light refreshments were served to a large and appreciative audience. All of the articles which were on display and in the fashion show were created in the past year, showing that the sisters are constantly adding culture and refinement to their homes. A successful bake sale was also held, and we feel that the stake was unified through cooperative participation." 776 Br gle - oo » = + a, 7 ye ¢ Uintah Stake (Utah), Jensen Ward Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Front row, seated, left to right: Rose Robinson, chorister; Mary Ann Snow, pianist; Vera Snow; Josephine Stewart; Leta Snow (age 17); Lucinda Sewell (age 84); Ella Ainge; Marilyn Ainge; Gertrude Turner. Second row, standing, left to right: Beverly Shewell; Laura Chew; Gladys Peterson; Nita Powell; Nettie Hill; Eleanor Chew; Ila Peterson; Sylvia Slaugh; Rita Ruppe. Norda G. Cook, President, Uintah Stake Relief Society, reports: "A large percentage of the Jensen Ward Relief Society members belong to this singing group. They perform for many varied gatherings, for the different ward organizations, funerals, and other functions. They are proud to have among the singers the oldest active Singing Mother in Uintah Stake, Lucinda Sewell. Leta Snow, seventeen, is also a member of the group, and is one of the youngest Singing Mothers in the stake." Gooding Stake (Idaho) ''Ideas Fair Exchange"' May 7, 1966 Gooding Ward Relief Society presidency, standing at one of the attractive handicraft booths, left to right: Norma Jenkins, Counselor; Alberta Butler, Counselor; Edith Stutzman, homemaking leader; Carol Sagers, President. Elaine P. Dixon, President, Gooding Stake Relief Society, reports: "Eight wards participated, with attractively decorated booths, displaying many useful and beautiful items. Each ward sponsored a demonstration, including a fashion show of lovely home-sewed clothing for the family."