[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 731 | Fiction | Roses — Tomorrow | Sylvia Probst Young]
Roses — Tomorrow Sylvia Probst Young With loving care Marian spaded the hard, sunbaked soil around each aster plant. Beside her the warm fingers of a morning breeze played lightly in her hair, and brought the sweet smell of blossoming locust and rose. Beauty was everywhere, and it was good to be alive on such a day and to; work in a garden. According to Paul she was a greenthumber. "Anything you stick in the ground will, al grow," he had often ' said. 9 wn _, "eas 4 we ad 7H ws — alae - x. —s, x aé wy - +n are PORE are Paul would be at the hospital now. He had left early—before she was awake. Probably he had breakfasted there as he so often did. Going early was part of his life as a doctor. Some mornings she was awake and would make his breakfast before he left, but if she was asleep, he would slip out quietly. It was a pattern he had established during the first years of their marriage, when her health had been so poor, and he had wanted to let her get as much rest as she could. But she had never liked to eat alone, and it seemed that the day was always better when she could visit with Paul for a few minutes at its beginning. "Hi!" A small girl on a tricycle 


 wheeled across the yard, and Marian looked up from her digging to smile at the honey-blond youngster, who was proudly displaying a new pink denim play dress. "Hello there, Sue,' Marian greeted her little neighbor, "what a pretty new dress." "My mama bought it yesterday at Handley's," the child announced with pride. "Do you have any cookies?" "Oh, I think so," Marian answered cheerily. 'Soon as I'm finished here, we'll go in and find some for you." "You had better go in now," the little girl told her, ''because the phone is ringing." Sve was right, and Marian dropped her trowel, with a promise to return with a treat. '"Mother!"' The voice on the other end of the line was a little plaintive. ""Where have you been? I've let the phone ring and ring." "Oh, Sheri, hello, dear! I was out weeding my asters, and I got so busy with it, I didn't hear." "Well, I called to say, happy anniversary, and to remind you and Daddy that you're coming up for dinner tonight. You hadn't forgotten, had you?" "Not really, but I've hardly seen your father for a week. It seems that he gets busier as the days go by — there are so many people in hospitals these days. But how are you, dear?" "Fine. [I'm going to Relief Society in a few minutes. It's homemaking meeting day, and we're doing a quilt. The boys have gone with Tom to the field. I gave them a lunch to take along." "They'll like that." 732 "Oh, yes, and they took their fishing poles, too, so they should have fun at the creek.... Well, I'd better go, Mom. Do you think you can be here by 6:30?" "We should if we leave at 5:30. Your father is going to be at the hospital all day, but he should be home by five. Thanks, dear, we'll see you then." As she hung up the phone, Marian thought of their anniversary. She hadn't really remembered it, and Paul hadn't either, or he would have said so. A doctor's life was so busy, day and night. She looked around her spotless, electric kitchen. They were financially well fixed now, but there had been a time when things were quite different. The years, thirty of them since she had been a bride, had brought joy and sorrows. How well she remembered the time she first saw Paul. It was at a Christmas dance in Clarksdale. She was a teacher there, and he had come home from medical school for the holidays. They had been immediately attracted to each other, and he had convinced her to stay in Clarksdale for Christmas. Then romance had flowered through letters after that. On two or three special ocasions Paul had managed to get home for a week-end, and by the end of the school year, he had asked her to marry him. They were married while he was interning, and when he was ready to go into private practice he had chosen to go home to Clarksdale and be a country doctor. There was only old Doctor Tippetts in Clarksdale then, and he was nearing seventy. "It's where I feel I belong, for b awhile anyway," he explained, '"'and they need me." How much they needed him! In Paul's office now there was a picture he had found in a magazine, a picture of a doctor on a winter night, his car left on the road, plowing on foot through a snowy lane to get to a lonely farmhouse. "It couldn't be more you if a photographer had taken it,'"' she mused, when he showed it to her. He smiled, agreeing. "The big old house on the hill — exactly like Jensen's and me going up there through the snow to doctor their croupy twins." There had been four feet of snow that winter in Clarksdale, and it seemed as if two-thirds of the population had been sick and needed a doctor. Paul was gone all hours of the day and night. At first she would wait up for him, but when she was expecting the baby he made her promise to go to bed. THE role of a doctor's wife was a lonely one, and the anticipation of a baby brought gladness to both of them. They both loved children and had decided that they wanted a big family. But they were to have only one little girl. Sheri, however, was the sunshine of their lives. "We couldn't be happier if we had a dozen," Paul had said so many times, as his dark eyes loved the small, sunny-haired moppet. When Sheri was five, Paul had a wonderful opportunity to go into practice with an established doctor he had known in school days. For Marian, city bred, who had never liked the cold, dreary winters of Clarksdale, it was the ROSES—TOMORROW chance of a lifetime. Paul, she knew, had loved his little home town, and if he had thought only of himself they might still have been there, but always Sheri and she were his first consideration. Now his practice had grown until it was almost too big to handle. In Clarksdale he would always have been a small town country doctor, but here on the staff of Pineview Hospital he had grown and progressed, until last year he had been made chief of staff. Financially, they had _ no worries, and Paul, with the love of the country a vital part of him, had bought a farm just outside of Clarksdale. When Sheri and Tom were married they moved out to run it, and whenever possible Paul and she spent time there with Sheri's little boys, riding and fishing—all of the things an outdoor man loved. A gentle knocking turned Marian's attention to Susie and the cookies, but her thoughts were on their anniversary. Paul usually sent roses to her. Maybe he had forgotten, but maybe he hadn't — the day was still young. As she opened the door, Susie's mother, who always reminded her of Sheri, came across the yard. "This child of mine is a positive beggar," the younger woman pronounced with exasperation. Marian laughed. "I love her, Pat. We don't see Sheri's boys near often enough, and I enjoy Susie so much." The other sighed. ''Life's funny, isn't it? Most of the time my three have me in a tizzy, and I'm envying you your peace and quiet. I guess we're never quite satisfied." "And we all have so much to 


 be satisfied with,"' Marian philosophized. She thought about it after her neighbor had gone and a warm feeling filled her heart. Paul would be home at five, they would go to Sheri's, and that would make the day perfect. When the weeding was finished she hurried into the house. She would finish the swirl she had started for Sheri. That would be a nice surprise. And then she would drive over to Center Street and get some orange sticks for the boys. The time went quickly, but by four o'clock the swirl was finished, carefully pressed, and gaily wrapped, and the orange sticks were waiting to be given to three eager little boys. Now she would shower and be ready, so that she could help Paul when he came. At quarter to five the phone rang. "Mrs. Markham, this is the hospital calling," a crisp feminine voice announced. "Doctor Markham asked me to call you. There's © been a terrible accident — four teenagers, in critical condition. The doctor's in surgery now; doesn't know when he'll be home." Disappointment and a sudden resentment filled Marian's being. A doctor's life was never really his own, not even on an anniversary. I ought to be resigned to this kind of thing, she thought. Leaving a note by the kitchen sink, she picked up her packages and went out to the car. She would go alone. She had had to do so many things alone so many times. Afternoon shadows lay in cool patterns along the road, a quiet calm filled the air; and, as she 734 drove along, the resentment disappeared. Paul would have wanted to go with her more than anything else, she knew that, but he was a dedicated physician, and she was proud that he was. "We are never quite satisfied," her neighbor had said. And, thinking about it, she concluded that surely satisfaction was the product of selflessness, and selflessness was a labor of love. THE sun was low in the western sky when Marian arrived at the farm where Sheri and her family were waiting, with dinner ready. "Isn't Grandpa coming?" The boys were keenly disappointed. Sheri, too, was deflated. '""We never can count on Daddy," she exclaimed, "and it's been this way as long as I can remember. He'd be called out of a show or a concert or a party, or he'd have an operation and couldn't go. Don't you get really sick of it, Mother?" Marian smiled gently. "Your father'belongs to a vast group of dedicated, unselfish people, Sheri. There are bishops and Relief Society presidents, stake presidents, and all of the General Authorities of the Church. They're all on call, you know. Your father has taken an oath of honor, we wouldn't be proud of him if he didn't live up to it." "I know that," Sheri conceded, "but this was quite a special day, Mother."' "Well, let's be happy, knowing that he would like to be here if he could," Tom reasoned.... "And how about eating? We're all starved." Sheri had baked chicken and new peas and potatoes from the garden, along with young, green onions, icicle radishes, and tiny carrots. She served dinner on the patio, and Marian couldn't remember when she had enjoyed a meal quite so much. The charm of the country twilight stole softly around them. From the meadow below came the call of a night bird and the croaking of frogs. Marian was loath to go. "But I didn't tell your father I was going to stay," she explained, when they protested. She had started to the car when the ringing of the telephone from inside interrupted. "It could be Daddy."' Sheri ran to answer it. When she returned moments later, she was smiling. "Dad can always make me feel happy, no matter what," she said, "'and he wants to talk to you, Mom." "Marian," his voice came over the wire full of apology, "I'm sorry, honey. This has been one ROSES—TOMORROW bad day. I've had many operations. I was just getting ready to come home, and then this, but I think they're going to be all right, given time. "I really hadn't forgotten what day it is, either. I was going to send you flowers, too, and I just got bogged down with things. "But you know, don't you, that I'd be lost without you? Just coming home like this without you here, I realize how much you've meant to me all these years — how much I love you and need you." Marian's voice was warm with contentment. "I'm on my way home right now," she said. "No, Marian, don't come tonight, it's too late to drive so far alone. You stay, and I'll drive up tomorrow afternoon. I'll bring you roses, too. All right?" "All right," she answered. Softly. You are a snowflake posed upon the wind, So briefly held upon the air. In my palm you rest, but not for long; All my fierce longings hang like broken chains.