THAT SAD YET BEAUTIFUL STORY.

Christmas dawns again in gladness,
	Quick the years of earth roll round;
Banished now the thoughts of sadness,
	Happy thoughts to-day resound!
		Bless the day, the happy day!
			Christ's sweet birth forever may
		Brighten hearts of chastened hoping 
			Into love and joy, we pray!
 
Ne'er forget we in our joyance
	Them whom persecution doom
Unto suffering for obeyance
	To their God, in a living tomb.
		Brethren. sisters, let us pray
			That our faithful brethren may 
		Drink the cup of brightest gladness,
			By God's Spirit all this day.

'Tis night. Judea's throngs have gone to rest;
	A wandering pair for shelter seek in vain;
The crowded inn holds not another guest,
	And deafened ears are turned to cries of pain.

My Father! must I die?" the Virgin cries,
	While tears of anguish mark her fair young cheek;
'None careth for mine heavy agonies;
	Oh!give me aid—the humblest roof I seek!"

"None careth for thee, dear one? O, my love,
	My Virgin Bride, mine Angel, say not so!
For aid I've sought in vain; but, as a dove,
	Shall Peace soon bless thee; seeking it I go."

And faithful Joseph soon returns to say:
	"No other shelter than a stable's roof 
Can here be found, this night; content thee, pray, 
	And from this one, dear heart, stand not aloof,

"For cold the winds do pierce thy gentle form,
	And thy dear head is bowed in sickening pain;
Come, loved one, shelter from the raging storm
	At least 'twill give—and from the threatening rain."

She leans upon his arm, and sweetly tells,
	In looks, her gratitude for even this;
And from her heart a prayer of pure love swells,
	As on her cheek she feels a husband's kiss.

And through the weary, wakeful, lengthened night,
	Our Savior's mother strives with nature's chain,
As only mothers know; that heavy fight
	For life, and its belov'd reward through pain.

But all hours pass, the blackest and the bright;
	And those hours passed for her, and morning found
A nestling babe, that, born with dawning light,
	Caused heav'n and earth with brightest praise to sound.

And who but mothers know the happy thought
	Of her, the favored of all women blest?
Nay, mothers, even we, who have not brought
	The world a Savior, know not how she pressed

Her darling in her arms. The gentle one,
	Whose innocence was proof 'gainst all earth's wiles—
Oh, none can tell how gazed she on that son,
	As, charmed, she lingered on his baby smiles.

And never mourned her tender heart, for ruth
	Her little boy did never stray from right;
Truth, justice, righteoueness attend His youth,
	And these, with knowledge, make His manhood bright.

And ever and anon the tempter's darts
	Are hurled with vengeance at that head in vain;
And well He knows the griefs of human hearts,
	And well He feels life's keenest, heaviest pain.

[Column 2]

But God-like strength dwells in that holy breast;
	No wiles succeed, all righteous laws He gives!
Succeeding ages by His laws are blest,
	In Him alone a world's salvation lives.

Alas! for thee, Judea! Can thy ears
	Still close to moaning cries of pain and grief?
Thy hardened heart resisteth still those tears
	Of God-like manhood, pleading heav'n's relief!

Beersheba to Dan unite to call
	Upon their heads the curse of holy blood—
Alas! and still they clamor for the fall,
	Upon their children, heaven's vengeful flood.

Ascending lone the mount, the Suff'rer cries,
	"If it be possible, my Father great,
Then let this cup pass by!" His heart replies
	Quick to the prayer, "Thou hast not long to wait!

"Thy Father's glories soon shall shine around Thee;
	Bear up, my Son, for yet a little while;
Amid temptations, faithful have I found thee,
	Be faithful still and win Thy Father's smile.

"For myriads watch Thee now, mine own belov'd,
	Their fate eternal upon thee is laid;
Then stand thou firm, nor from Thy path be mov'd,
	A few short hours—the sacrifice is made!"

"Thy will be done, not mine! Forgive the weakness,
	O Father kind and wise, that in my grief
Petitioned Thee, in lowly, earnest meekness
	To send; e'en now, Thine aid for my relief.

"I go, I go, to meet a doom of suffering,
	Oh, well I know mine hour hath come to die!
Great God! receive in heaven my lonely offering—
	To save mankind, my Father, here am I.

"I have not sinned; my heart is pure; the wicked
	'Gainst me find no complaint. Alone I tread
The wine-press. O, my Father! by Thy Spirit
	Pour forth Thy strength upon my suffering head!"

The hour had come; the dreadful, awful time;
	So great that darkness covers all the earth!
Yet who can read the solemn depths sublime,
	That burst from dying lips of suffering Worth:

"And am I thus forsaken, O, my God!"
	While torment holds that pure and youthful form.
"And so, 'tis finished!" As that high head bowed,
	And death released Him from earth's blasting storm!

He dies, and we are saved! Ah, who can tell
	The gratitude we owe to that pure life!
And pray we e'er that we may serve Him well,
	And that, untarnished, we may win earth's strife.

For through that Savior glorious things are giv'n,
	To him that overcometh in the strife—
Pure rest eternal in God's highest heaven,
	And chastest joys amid eternal life!

