UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of quarterly conference of the Re-
lief Society of Utah Stake, held Nov. 26th,
1886, Prest. Mary John presiding, with her
Counselors. No visitors present. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of singing and
prayer. As there were no written reports to
be read, the presidents of the various branches
of the Relief Society throughout the county
were called upon to give verbal reports.
	Prest. John said she was pleased to meet
with us again, and "although, owing to bad
weather, we are few in numbers, the Lord has
promised to meet with us, and hence we will
claim a blessing. This is a trying time for us.
Sometimes there seems to be a dark cloud hang-
ing over us, but then we can see a rift in the
clouds and the sun appears, shining. Our
enemies are on the alert to overthrow us; let us
be humble and prayerful. I pray the Lord to
bless us, that we may be worthy of His smiles;"
etc.
	The presidents then gave in their reports,
after which Coun. Marilla M. Daniels gave a
great deal of good instruction to the sisters.
Said, "Straight is the gate and narrow the way
that leads to eternal life, but all that work for
it will gain it. We do not wish to falter and
faint now, but press on to the end," etc.
	Sister Moody, from Arizona, made a few re-
marks, and bore her testimony to the truth of
this work.
	She was followed by Bishop Myron Tanner,
who said he was pleased to hear the sisters
bear their testimonies to the truth of this 
work. "There is joy in these times; the hand
of God is over us for good. We cannot see
 the cause of these things, but the hand of op-
pression laid on the parents is doing more to
convince our children of the truth of Mormon-
ism than anything else could have done. They
are riveting the truths of Mormonism on
them." The speaker here recounted some of
the persecutions of Missouri, and told how he
witnessed the mob strike his father on the head,
and the effect it had on him. The speaker
was affected to tears in relating the occurrence,
but said, "we are called upon to pass through
these ordeals to purify us. Do not let us give
way to anger in regard to these things, but
bear the cross with humble hearts.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing.
Benediction.
	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer. Sister Emily G. Cluff, the first speaker,
spoke of the duties of mothers in regard to
their children. Thought the mother's influence
over them was more than the father's. Ex-
horted the older sisters to speak in Society
meetings; as it encouraged the younger sisters,
and gave them confidence in themselves to
speak.

[Column 2]

	Prest. A. O. Smoot said, "I cordially respond
to the call of Sister John. I am pleased to
meet with you again in a conference capacity.
The adversary is abroad in the land, and it is
time the line of demarcation was being drawn
between good and evil. Evil communications
will corrupt us and our families." Spoke very
strongly against round dancing, as being ex-
pressly forbidden by the First Presidency of
the Church, and asked the co-operation of
mothers and heads of families in discountenanc-
ing it and putting it down; also spoke of the
threatened evil of having saloons opened in
our midst. Exhorted mothers to watch over
the youth committed to their care. "We
should watch in the days of our temptation.
God will purify His people. He whips us in-
to line. I trust the inspiration of the Gospel
will lead us aright, and may the peace of God
be with us. Amen.
	Prest. David John endorsed the remarks of
Prest. Smoot. Said, "The subjects mentioned
are of great importance." Reviewed the
liquor question and other subjects. Said, "Let
us care for our poor and feed and clothe them;
comfort those who mourn, and if any are sick
and not able to attend meetings, it would be
right and proper that the sacrament be taken
to them." Spoke of the class distinction that
was rearing its head among the people. "The
Lord will not permit it. We must be humble.
We are baptized by one baptism; we must love
and esteem our brethren as ourselves; not by
words alone, but by works also, and in minis-
tering to their necessities. It seems to me in
the face of all our persecutions we have no
time to spare in dances. Let us meet often in
houses of prayer, and ask God to preserve us
from the power of our enemies. Let us put
away our vanity and turn to the Lord, for un-
less we do there are worse days in store for us
yet. Everything that can be shaken will be
shaken. We will all be tested. We are pass-
ing through a crisis that will prove us. No
power can crush us but our own weakness. All
these clouds will result in blessings. My
prayer is, that God will bless us and give us
His Holy Spirit.
	Anna K. Smoot made a few remarks in re-
gard to the Primary Association.
	Prest. Mary John felt that the Spirit of the
Lord had been with us. Said, "We will now
adjourn for three months." Singing. "The
time is far spent," etc. Benediction by Prest.
Smoot.
