DEAR SISTERS:
	As we are unable to meet with each Association
as often as we desire, we take this opportunity of
letting you know our thoughts and wishes con-
cerning the young ladies of this Stake. We are
engaged in the same great cause, and it should be
our greatest object to improve in all good things.
	The Presidency of the Church, in their wisdom,
have seen fit to organize these Associations for
the benefit of the young people of Zion, and it is
our duty to live up to the privileges we have. We
should learn the will of the Lord and then do it.
The Lord loves those who diligently serve Him,
and will help those who help themselves. The
Savior said, "The pure in heart shall see God."
	We would like to ask you, as daughters of Zion,
"Are you living pure and honest lives, so as to be
able to claim all the blessings in store for the
faithful?" We realize that a non-performance of
duty deprives us of the Spirit of God; therefore,
we would exhort you not to give way to evil in-
fluences, but heed the good instructions given you
from time to time.
	Are we, as young ladies, seeking to improve 
our minds as much as we are striving to adorn our
bodies with all the fashions of the day? If we
are not, now is the time to commence. Study the
best books you can get, especially those treating
upon our holy religion; also the laws of life and
health. Seek good society; use your influence
with the young men you may be associated with to
refrain from habits that are not in accordance with
the mind and will of God. Young ladies, you
have more influence than perhaps you are aware
of. President Young stated on one occasion that
young ladies had more influence than he, "For,"
said he, "you can put a stop to round dancing and
I cannot." If we have such an influence as this,
let us use it for good, and in the direction suggested
by him.
	Beware of those who are not of our faith, or
who speak lightly of sacred things. Be polite and
courteous to all, and respect old age. Avoid
speaking evil of others. Do not criticise the
authorities, but pray for them, and for all who are
in trouble or distress. Pay your tithing and fast
offerings, that you may be blessed. Keep the
Sabbath day holy. Be industrious, prayerful and
humble, for we are living in a most eventful age,
when much depends upon the youth of Zion, and
the young ladies are now called upon to pre-
pare themselves for the different positions and
labors they will have to perform, in helping to re-
deem Zion. Let us set our mark high, and faith-
fully and zealously work to it. Be patient, modest
and faithful, and study closely the spirit of the
times, and the sentiments of the living prophet,
that light and truth may be your guide through
this important epoch of our history. Hold your


meetings regularly and at the appointed time.
Have, if possible, one or more representatives
present at our conferences and officer's meetings.
The programme committee will find suitable
lessons to bring before the members from the
Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Coven-
ants. Use a portion of your money made at en-
tertainments, and so forth, to purchase books for
your library. Send the money with list of books
you have, and those you want, to Esther C.
Parkinson, and she will complete the list and
order the books for you. By ordering a number
they can be purchased cheaper.
	May the Lord bless you in your desires to do
right, is the prayer of,
		  Your sisters in the Gospel,
				ESTHER C. PARKINSON,
				RUTH H. HATCH.
	Of the Presidency of the Oneida Stake of Zion.


