A WOMAN’S QUESTIONING.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Don’t you think we have fallen on very
curious times? I want to know if this is the
land of the free and the home of the brave, or
is it only a boast? Is this the land where all
are declared to be free to worship God accord-
ing to the dictates of their consciences? Also,
where no laws should be enacted that should
hinder a man (or a woman I suppose) from
seeking happiness as best suited them, provid-
ing they did not tread on any body elses toes?
Is this the country that has invited immigra-
tion to help develop its vast resources, and de-
clared all men equal before the law, or have I
had a beautiful dream that these things were so,
only to awake and find it only a dream, a
phantom, a shadow, without substance?


A few days since, a celebrated prosecuting
(persecuting) attorney declared in open court
that the Mormons must be convicted whether
they could obtain proof of guilt or not. Phew!
is this justice? And recollect, cohabitation is 
only a misdemeanor, while Hopt, the murderer,
is still alive, and, judging from appearances,
will be pardoned when it can be done on the
quiet. But then, he is not a Mormon; oh, no!
Then we have that noble, brave deputy marshal,
Thompson, that hides in houses and shoots
men down (in the back, remember) as they pass
along the streets, and who has a jury ready at
his command, and more than willing to do his
will, for so much per diem. This is called
manslaughter, and he is admitted to bail; we
may look for a verdict of justifiable homidice
or some such trash; but then the murdered man
is a Mormon, that makes all the difference; had
it been the other way the Mormon would have
had to die, but they will make their verdict to
please the howling wolves that would like to
devour us body and soul, if they could. The
fable of the wolf and the lamb was never more
verified than in the present crusade.
	When Senator Logan was here with the G.
A. R., he said in his speech, if we did not like
the treatment we are getting we might emi-
grate. Kind, very kind! but he has gone first.
I should not be surprised if more of the wolves
were stopped in their mad career. Has the 
whole nation got hydrophobia?
	Those that live longest will see most. If we
are only true we shall come out of the furnace
purified of all the dross.
							MARY.
	Grantsville, Jan. 10, 1887.


