A LITTLE PLAIN TALK.

	"Man's inhumanity to man
		Makes countless thousands mourn"

	The above quotation applies equally to
women. How surprising it is to an intelligent,
far-reaching mind to note the injustice done
to one another by our own sex.
	A number of speeches made in my hearing
by some of our sisters (I am sorry to say) in
my opinion go far to substantiate this fact.
	Some of these I will take the liberty to re-
peat in this little article, for the purpose of
showing what a habit some of us are uncon-
sciously falling into; instead of observing the
Mormon creed and helping to sustain the in-
telligent women that are among us. and that
have qualified themselves to occupy positions
that require education and intelligence, we
let jealousy creep in, and when this unruly
tyrant once takes possession of the citadel of
our hearts, we find he is very hard to conquer,
and we say and do that which we ought not.
If we will only try to possess ourselves of a
magnanimous disposition it will be of far more
worth than any of us can imagine; it will
strengthen and fortify us against such low,
petty views, that are constantly trying to take
possession of us, and we will possess a charitable
heart toward all our fellow sisters. The Bible
says, "Hatred stireth us strife, but love cover-
eth up all sins." Again: "A man shall be
commended according to his wisdom, but he
that is of a perverse heart shall bedespised."
Therefore, let us be willing to accord to each
one the mission they have to perform with all
magnaminity of heart.
	One sister says, in answer to an inquiry,
"No, I am not a subscriber for the EXPONENT;
I do not get much time to read, in fact I do
not believe much in woman's rights. I believe

[Column 2]

that a woman's mission is in attending to her
household duties."
	Oh, dear!  what a pity to have been born a
woman, if the name but serves to stay our pro-
gression intellectually. Our ideas of woman's
rights are a little different to those the world at
large entertain on the question, but we are not
the down-trodden, ignorant women we are re-
presented; we would have the world understand
that we are willing to and do stand by our
husbands, fathers and brothers in every princi-
ple, and especially the one grand principle of
our religion—celestial marriage—and this has
been accomplished most effectually through
the columns of the EXPONENT, edited by a
woman, and contributed to by such gifted
sisters as Sister Eliza R. S. Smith, Hannah T.
King, Helen Mar Whitney, and many others
I might mention, would time and space permit.
It is through the columns of this little paper
that the world in general have received much
enlightenment concerning the misrepresented
people of Utah, and I feel thankful to our
Heavenly Father that we have sisters capable
of assisting in this great work.
	Another sister said, "What! paid her as
much as you would a male physician?" in
speaking of a woman doctor, "the very idea of
paying a woman as much as a man. If I had
occasion to engage the services of either I
should certainly employ one of the opposite
sex."
	Just look at the absurdity of such a speech;
because one happens to be born a woman, she
should receive only half salary, or perhaps it
would better please jealousy and envy, who go
stalking abroad arm in arm, if she endeavored
to gain a livelihood by playing at rub-a-dub-dub
at the wash tub. This feeling should not exist
among the women of the Latter-day Saints.
	Let us strive to be up to every duty, and
hearken to the Scripture, "Get wisdom; and
with all thy getting, get understanding." If
we do this, each striving to help the other, we
will have a calm and contended mind, and be-
come noble, intelligent women. One author
says that the moment we acknowledge jealousy
in our hearts towards anyone that moment we
acknowledge them our superior.
	So let us be on the lookout, ever prayerful
and humble, willing to help sustain all that are
doing a good work, and whatever our station
in life, or the mission we are called upon to fill,
we will reap our reward in time to come.
		I. H.


