EXPONENT.

	Sisters, save your EXPONENT. Do not waste
or destroy them. After you have read them
you can put them to much valuable service by
sending them to your friends in the east, or
elsewhere, or if you happen to have no relatives
or friends with whom you correspond, procure
from some one of our missionaries abroad the
name of an inquiring friend, and furnish her
with this beam of light from Utah. You have
no idea what an amount of good you can do
in this way until you have once tried it.
	A missionary brother writes, "Send me all


your EXPONENTS, they are better than tracts,
Many times when I call upon a family, and
am refused the privilege of bearing my testi-
mony, I say, "Would you like a paper published
by the sisters of our Church?" They say, "Oh,
yes; by all means give me one. I did'nt know
your women knew anything of literature. Why
I thought your women knew nothing but
drudgery. I thought the Mormon women had
no voice, were not allowed to speak," etc.
	Printed matter is now carried very cheaply
through the mails, and when at the cost of so
very few cents we can do so much towards en-
lightening the world as to our real condition,
by sending our EXPONENT abroad, it does not
pay to either sell them for wrapping paper, as
many do, nor to destroy them. If we are live
Latter-day Saints we will be on the alert for
every opportunity to promote the Latter-day
work, and will not overlook these, what many
may call small matters, but which, when looked
upon in the right light, are very great ones. I
consider that if we can say or do anything to
dispel one erroneous idea entertained against
us as a people, we have done a great thing.
	We, the women of Latter-day Israel, are the
promoters and sustainers of the great law or-
dained of God for the saving of the women of
this nation, as well as those of other nations,
and we should not be slow in our endeavors to
publish this fact to their ears. The ignorance
that prevails among the women in the east
with regard to the women of Utah, and the
erroneous ideas they have of our real condition,
is astonishing, and it is our duty to dispel these
false ideas as far as it lies in our power to do
so.
	The EXPONENT is not the voice of its editor
and the writers of its columns alone, but it is
the voice of every woman who professes to be
a Latter-day Saint, and it is the duty of every
one of these to help send this voice abroad,
and there is no sister so poor or so illiterate as
to be unable to do her part. We see from the
quotation made from the missionary's letter
that the Exponent can find its way into many
homes where our Elders are not admitted.
This fact ought to stimulate us to follow the ad-
vice I have given above, and let this paper
accomplish all the good that it can.
	Perhaps I have said enough, at least I hope
I have said enough on this subject, that at least
some sister may act upon the advice I have
given with regard to the disposition of this
valuable paper.
	Mc.


