WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I would like to place a few of my thoughts on
paper, peradventure it should meet the thoughts
of some one else.
	In the year of 1852 I received the Gospel of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, knowing that it
was the power of God unto salvation to all those
that will believe and obey the same in all things,
as fast as it is made known to them. It was on
the 6th day of June that I went down into the
waters of baptism; I then met with many a conflict;
it was then that I upheld the principle of plural
marriage. I did not know that plural mar-
riage was in the Church at that time, but I said
that all good men in olden times had more wives
than one, and why not now? I thought it was a
good principle; it has always looked right to me,
and I have tried to live in accordance with the
same, and live according to the dictates of con-
science, trusting in the God of our salvation for
the outcome. Light and truth must be carried
unto all the world, that every ear may hear the
sound thereof, and the world left without an excuse,
and to clear the way before the consummation of
all things, which is fast hastening on.
	Every principle in its proper place, inasmuch as
the Gospel requires it—faith and repentance, and
obedience to every principle and commandment
that pertains to the salvation and exaltation of all
the human family that dwell on the earth, inas-
much as they will obey the same, and live accord-
ing to these requirements. I know that the
principle of plural marriage is a righteous principle.
I upheld it before I ever heard it was practiced in
this dispensation. It is upheld in the Bible so
plainly among the patriarchal order of families, as
they were acknowledged by the Father of the
Faithful in that day. The Scriptures speak of
faithful Abraham, and represent him as the
"Father of the Faithful." He did all things that
the Lord required at his hands, and it was ac-
counted to him for righteousness, and his children
followed after him. It was said that "I am the
God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." They were
called Abram and Sarai, (Genesis, xvi, 3). "And
Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar, her maid, the
Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the


[Column 1]

land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband
Abram to be his wife." (xvii, 5). "Neither shall
thy name any more be called Abram, but thy
name shall be Abraham, for a father of many na-
tions  have I made thee; and God said unto
Abraham, "And as for thy wife, thou shalt not call
her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be."
Now, you see that the Lord visited them and
talked to them and ate with them and changed
their names. The Lord did not forsake Abraham
and Sarah because he (Abraham) had two wives,
but He blessed him, and told him that his posterity
should be as numerous as the sands on the sea
shore, or the stars in the firmament, that they
could not be numbered. Now Abraham took
Keturah for a wife to enlarge their families, that they
might increase according to the blessing that was
promised him. If we expect to have the blessings
of Abraham, we must do the works of Abraham,
for Abraham, in the Scriptures, is called the
"Father of the Faithful," of which I want to be
one.
	PLURAL MARRIAGE was an ancient order,
though men ignore it now. It was when the Lord
visited His servants the prophets. Men say that
we have no need for the Lord to talk with us, for
such things are done away now; but if He will
not speak to us there must be something wrong; it
must be that we are in the wrong, not the Lord
but I would like to be as good as the ancient peo-
ple of God, and be worthy to go where they
are, I would like to talk with them and enjoy my-
self with them, for I expect to know them and en-
joy their company, which we cannot do if they
will not speak to us, or if we are not worthy to be
spoken to; nor can we learn of their ways or
walk in their paths, that we may be like them. I
would rather be taught of the ways of the Lord
and walk in His paths, let them be ever so thorny,
for without trials what are we? Not worthy of
His notice. I could have no joy if I knew no
God and no hereafter. How could we advance in
the things of the kingdom?
	 I rejoice in knowing that there is a future state,
with all of its organizations, and I realize that I
am responsible for the knowledge that He has
given and blessed me with. Inasmuch as baptism
is necessary, so is the laying on of hands for the
gift of the Holy Ghost, and all the rest of the
ordinances of the Gospel. Plural marriage is as
necessary as any other principle of the Gospel.
If I did not believe in practising plural marriage,
I should not think that I was worthy of any, for
if one principle is wrong the others are wrong also.
How would we feel if we should pass behind the
vail and see those who were not allowed any
privilege to speak to us? I should not expect the
privilege of their society. We must do the work
that will claim the same blessings, then. Where
are all the faithful Prophets and Patriarchs of old,
as well as modern? I want to be worthy to meet
them and enjoy their company; I love them, and
the words that they have taught. We can go to
the Bible and read the words of Abraham, that
good man—he said that he married his sister.
(Gen. xxii, 12). "And yet, indeed, she is my sister.
She is the daughter of my father, but not the
daughter of my mother, and she became my wife."
Now this goes to prove that his father practised
plural marriage also. Abraham, whom the Lord
especially favored, had more wives, and his grand-
son is the same Jacob that, when traveling on his
journey, (Gen. xxviii, 11), "lighted on a certain
place, and tarried there all night, because the sun
was set; and he took of the stones of that place
and put them for his pillow, and lay down in that
place to sleep." (12). "And he dreamed: Behold,
a ladder set upon the earth, and the top of it
reached to heaven, and behold the angels of God
ascending and descending on it." (13). "And, be-
hold, the Lord stood above it, and said, 'I am the
Lord God of Abraham, thy father, and the God of
Isaac; the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I

[Column 2]

give it, and to thy seed." (15). "And thy seed
shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt
spread abroad, to the west, and to the east, and to
the north, and to the south, and in thee and in thy
seed shall all the families of the earth be
blessed."
	Do we belong to the families of the earth?
Mark, He said that all the families of the earth
should be blessed. Now, where is one that it does
not reach? Have we not all sprung from the
patriarchal families, and how can we expect to get
along without obedience to the same law? There
is no blessing promised without obedience. Jacob
worked seven years for Rachel, and was deceived
and got Leah, and then he worked another seven
years for Rachel, and Leah and Rachel each had a
handmaid, and in time they gave each of them to
their husband for wives. This shows to me that
they loved their husband. Jacob, whom the Lord
named Israel, was the father of twelve sons, one
of them was called a dreamer, and his brethren
sold him. He was taken to Egypt, and he became
a savior to all his father's household, and had do-
minion over all things, and all Canaan, where the
famine reached them; and how many of us are of
the seed of Joseph, through the loins of Ephraim,
on whom greater blessings were conferred under
he hands of his grandfather, whom the Lord
talked with, and said his name should be called
Israel from this time forth.
	Moses was conversant with the Lord, and he
was the great law-giver of Israel. In his laws
especial provisions were made for polygamists; it
is not mentioned as one of the crimes for which
penalties were provided.
	Elkanah was a polygamist, yet his son Samuel
was a great prophet and judge in Israel. He was
born and lived under the special favor of God.
	David, king of Israel, was chosen of the Lord.
(1 Samuel, xvi, 12-13). "He took Abigail and
Ahinoam, and they were also both of them his
wives." 1 Samuel, xxv, 72-73. "He took him
more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem."
(2 Samuel, v, 13), we are further informed that,
"David did that which was right in the eyes of the
Lord, and turned not aside from anything
that he commanded him all the days of his
life, save only in the matter of Uriah, the Hittite."
(1 Kings, xv, 5). In this passage we have an as-
surance that David did right in taking all his wives
and concubines except in one instance, for which
he was severely chastised. When Nathan, the
prophet, reproved him for this sin, he said to him,
"In the name of the Lord I gave thee thy master's
house, and thy master's wives unto they bosom."
(2 Samuel, xii, 8).
	I might quote the passages from the beginning
of the Bible to the end thereof, and all would prove
these things, the purposes of the Lord, which are
one eternal round. Search the Scriptures; in
them ye think ye have eternal life, but they are
they that testify of these things. It has not for-
bidden these things for which many have to endure
the penalty of a broken law, and imprisonment
without a just cause, and with a conscience void
of offense toward the laws of man. God has com-
manded and we must obey. In this life only can
we prepare for the next existence, and because
we try to keep the commandments of God, our
fathers, husbands, brothers and sons are placed
before the tribunal and unjustly condemned, and
doomed to stay in prison for months or years, and
they will and do submit for conscience' sake. We
have endured many things, and hope to endure all
things. We feel sorry for our persecutors; they
know not what they do; they are measuring arms
with the Supreme Being, who has said He would
not be mocked nor hold them guiltless that oppress
His Saints. He has said that offenses must come,
but woe! unto them by whom they come. Jesus
said, "Judge not, lest ye be judged, condemn not,
lest ye be condemned." He said, "Let him that

[Column 3]

s without sin cast the first stone at her, and they
all fled."
	We have no hardness in our hearts toward our
oppressors; their lot is hard; they will condemn
themselves in that day when we all shall meet at
the bar of God; where none can say that God is
not just. We pity them, and say, "Oh Lord! have
mercy on them, for they know not what they do."
We fear not, for the Lord is at the helm of the
ship Zion, and He can steer it through the storm
that rages wild and fierce; we have nothing to fear
if we are faithful to our God. We must be tried
and proven until we are like gold seven times
tried in the furnace, and the dross is all con-
sumed.
		SARAH SUDWEEKS.
	Junction, Piute Co., Dec. 29, 1886.


