BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Thirty-third Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake con-
vened on the 14th of December, 1886, in the
tabernacle at Brigham City, Sister Harriet
Snow presiding. After the opening exercises,
Prest. Harriet Snow arose and said, "I feel
thankful we have the privilege to meet once
more in a conference capacity. I trust we
may have the Spirit of the Lord to guide us in
transacting business pertaining to our duties."
	The Secretary being absent, Sister Annie
Wixom was appointed Secretary pro. tem.
Minutes of previous conference were read and
accepted.
	Susannah P. Boothe, Prest. of 1st Ward,
said, "I realize we have to make an effort in
meeting together, as well as in other respects.
We are living in a time that we need all the
teachings we can gather. Let us remember
our brethren and sisters who cannot be with us.
We can do a great deal of good in cheering
those who are down-hearted, besides doing
good to the poor. It behooves each and every
one of us to lift up our prayers early and late
in behalf of the youth of Zion; try to lead
them along, but not drive them. I hope we
will not be weary in well doing, that when we

[Column 3]

leave this existence we may leave a good re-
cord behind us."
	Mary Anderson, Prest. of 3rd Ward: "I feel
almost proud of our sisters who take an active
part in our ward, although we should not feel
proud, still it is a great encouragement. I
think the families in exile have just as hard
times as the brethren in prison. We don't
need to fear our enemies; they can do us no
more harm than the Lord will permit."
	Sister Bigler represented the 2nd Ward.
	Sister Keller, Prest. of Mantua: "I think
we are doing a little good, but we need to do
still better. This is a time when we need to
live near our God."
	Sister Watkins, Prest. of 4th Ward: "The
Lord is overruling all things for our good.
When we do good and show kindness to the
poor, we always reap blessings in return that
are of more worth than money." Bore a
strong testimony to the truth of celestial mar-
riage; felt thankful to have passed through
former persecutions, and hoped to faithfully
pass through the present.
	Coun. Olivia Widerborg: "I am not a very
proud woman, but I am proud of my religion."
Spoke warmly on the principle of celestial
marriage. Said, "I feel to praise my Heavenly
Father for my experience in this order; it has
learned me to strive to root out selfishness. We
would not be perfected if we had no trials."
Reported the Scandinavian Society.
	Bishop Hansen, of the 4th Ward: "Those
present are enjoying the influence of the Holy
Spirit, and their hearts are uplifted. There
are but few of the human family who have
this privilege. The life beyond is of far more
worth than the pleasures of this world. The
principle of celestial marriage is intended as
the greatest exaltation, but we cannot under-
stand all things in one day. There is nothing
that gives more comfort than to do good to
others in need. If we have done good here on
earth, that will follow us; anything else we
must leave behind.
	Sister Perry, Prest. of Three Mile Creek:
"My sisters, I am pleased to meet with you;
my health is poor; I came to get a blessing."
Compared the life of the Latter-day Saints to a
high school, "where they may gain intelligence.
What good we have learned will follow us into
eternity. There is nothing that looks more
beautiful to me than to see two wives of one
husband coming into this house together. The
young and the middle-aged have to prepare
themselves to be able to teach the women of
the world. Let us be kind and helpful to
those in trouble. Let us do all in our power
to share their trials and comfort them.
	After singing and benediction, adjourned
till 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session: After the usual opening
exercises, Sister Hubbard, Prest. of Willard,
addressed the meeting: "I feel to ask the help
of the Lord, for of myself I am nothing. How
could we change one principle of our holy re-
ligion. Our Father has blessed us with so
many things. No evil will befall the faithful;
all will be for our good. We who have em-
braced the principle of plural marriage have
reason to be humble, as families. Let us do
to others as we would that they should do unto
us. The Gospel never looked more beautiful
to me than it does now."
	Sister Harper, of Calls Fort: "We all have
our weaknesses to combat with." Spoke of
the principle of plural marriage. Said, "Let
us be united with each other, that we may be
strong; disunited we are weak. This is a day
for both men and women to prove themselves.
We should be very careful to pray for our sis-
ters as well as our brethren. I want to live so
as to meet the smiles of my Heavenly Father.
	Sister H. Hunsaker, Prest. of Honeyville:
"This kingdom will roll on, whether we follow
or not. Shall we enter into plural marriage?


Yes, let us not be afraid to do so, nor speak
against the principle; the Lord has given it for
the good of the human family.  We are co-
workers with our brethren in the kingdom of
God.”
	Emilia D. Madsen felt thankful to be
counted one with the Latter-day Saints.  “What
a beautiful spirit is here to-day; such a heavenly, 
warm feeling swells our bosoms and fills the 
atmosphere.  When we look at these sisters 
who have testified be strongly to the truth and
beauty of celestial marriage, how can we help
but believe them?  They are growing old,
but there is a light in their eyes, and a
sound in their voices, when they speak as 
they have done, that we are compelled to look
up to them with reverence and respect.”
	Bro. George Cook said, “I have felt the
good spirit in your midst.  We are called upon
to keep ourselves unspotted from the world.”
	Bro. Daniel Zundle: “There is a good spirit
present here.  We may labor trying to do our
very best, but when we lay down these bodies,
and we can look back, we will realize -that it is
but very little we have done to inherit the
great blessings that are before us.” 
	Bro. Wixom said, “I have heard some fine
instructions here; God is with you.  If the
world could realize the prospects that are be-
fore this people, they would rush in here by
thousands, by millions.  I believe we cannot
feel exactly the same as a woman.  She is the
helpmate and co-laborer with man in this great
work.  The man is not without the woman, nor
the woman without the man.”
	Sister Minnie J. Snow: “This is a time of
trying scenes, when we look back and realize
what has transpired within the last three years.
I feel an interest in the progress of this work.
I am led to believe, that more trying times are
to come yet.” 
	Sister Hardy: “These older sisters who have
addressed us are faded; their faces are wrinkled,
but there is something beautiful about them;
they are worthy examples, and we ought to
follow them.  The testimony of the older sis-
ters who have lived in plural marriage seems
to have more effect upon the young people than
a sermon from the brethren.”    
	Prest. Harriet Snow showed some beautiful
green homemade silk, sold at the same price as
the imported, and recommended the Relief
Society throughout to sustain this home indus-
try. “We have had a good conference, and I
feel thankful for the interest manifested.  We
need temporal food often, so do we also need
spiritual.  I like to hear the sisters bear their
testimonies to the principle of plural marriage.
I have lived in it for forty years. 	     *		*
I don’t know what our enemies will do with us.
We are the daughters of God; let us live, then,
as becomes His daughters.  May God bless all
our sisters, in all their efforts, and may we
meet again in three months.  If we are humble
we shall receive knowledge and wisdom to
guide us.”  Singing.  Benediction by Father
Box. 
			ANNIE WIXOM, Sec. pro tem.


