	COMMENTS.

	The Edmunds Tucker Bill, of which so much
has been said of late, passed the House of Repre-
sentatives by a large majority with a "whoop and
a howl," on Wednesday, January 12th.  This out-
rageous bill derives its name from two leading
men in the Congress of the United States, and it
is greatly to their discredit that they should thus
degrade the talents given them, and subvert the
aims and intentions of all law-making and good
government by yielding to a popular clamor and
prejudice born of rumor and misrepresentation.
Senator Edmunds formulated the bill at first, and
it passed the Senate last session of Congress, and
was sent to the Lower House, where it was referred
to the Judiciary Committee, of which John Ran-
dolph Tucker is the Chairman, and in this way
this compound anti-Mormon, anti-American bill
received its double name.  Hon. John T. Caine,
Delegate from Utah, occupied an hour and a half
in opposing the passage of the bill, and exposing 
its inconsistent and iniquitious measures, and the
cruelties it would inflict upon an unoffending, and
already oppressed and persecuted people.
	His speech was able and eloquent, and he was
greeted with many congratulations at the close.
It was a strong protest against adverse legislation,
setting forth in a forcible manner facts and condi-
tions as they actually exist, as against false reports,
slanders and mis-statements.  Mr. Bennett, of 
North Carolina, spoke one hour upon the worst
features of the bill;  we remember this gentlemen
as the only one with whom we conversed, who 
said he would consider the bill prayerfully, and
we made a note of it at the time.  Reed, of Maine, 
who approved the bill, spoke in its favor for twenty
minutes, traducing and villifying the Latter-day 
Saints in the bitterest manner.  Reed might with
all propriety be termed a hot-headed Mormon-hater.
He was followed by John Randolph Tucker, the
god-father of the bill, who succeeded in arousing
sufficient antagonism to the Mormon people to
push the bill through under the excitement of the
hour, just when in the mist of clouds of dark mis-
representation and slanders it was rendered possi-
ble. 
	It seems incredible that such an outrageous bill
should pass without further protest;  there were a 
few negatives, but not enough to demand the
yeas and nays.  Doubtless Mr. Tucker is proud of 
that day's work, but, after all, if the bill should fail
of passing the Senate, or the President refuse his 
signature, he will not succeed so admirably in 
gaining popular favor at the close of his public
career by his attempt to crush out the Mormons.
	Mr. Tucker is a Presbyterian in faith, and
illiberal and bigoted in his religious views, as most
of that sect are.  He is strongly opposed to 
woman's suffrage, and after a hearing before his
Committee on that question, last winter, when
some of the ablest and most eloquent women in 
the land presented arguments and logical reasons
for the support of such a measure as the ballot in
the hands of women, Miss Susan B. Anthony,

[Column 2]
anxious to know what effect the speeches had made
upon him, inquired what he thought of the cause."
He replied, he was "too old to change his views."
"Then," said Miss Anthony, with the ready wit
which never forsakes her, "aren't you too old to
sit in the Congress of the United States?" Mr.
Tucker, who is very good natured, only laughed
at the joke, as he possibly considered it, though
Miss Anthony was in sober earnest.  Perhaps he
looks upon the Mormon question as only a possible
joke, but he will yet find that the Mormons are
most solemnly in earnest about adhering to their
religion.
	Senator Edmunds is, in every respect, a differ-
ent kind of man.  He is proud, rich, cold as an
icicle, aristocratic and arrogant.  He would never
have been half as famous as he is, and as widely
known, had it not been for the Mormons.  But
such popularity will not avail him much "in the
long run."  People who build themselves up on
the ruin of others are sure to have a terrible fall,
some day, and his will assuredly come.  There
are men here in Utah—"Liberals" they falsely 
style themselves—who are urging Congress to do
this great wrong against the people of Utah, and
deceiving the general public and members of Con-
gress, who are not themselves acquainted with
facts, by means of messages, telegrams and frac-
tional statements of things, elaborated and em-
bellished with falsehoods to suit their purpose.
Senator Edmunds and John Randolph Tucker are
not deceived, however; they know the situation
having heard the facts from those who are author-
ized to speak for the people, and therefore they
cannot plead ignorance, and are left without ex-
cuse.  On the question of woman's suffrage, Mr. 
Tucker holds the Southern view that women are
too good to dabble in politics or enter the field of
field of public matters in any such way.  But it is
very doubtful about his considering Mormon
women too good;  he likely thinks they are not
good enough, the same as he does Mormon men,
who are not in his bill thought good enough to
have the right to do anything to defend their rights
to the homes and inheritances, which their own in-
dustry and almost superhuman perseverance have 
made in a desert land, previously unknown, ex-
cept as uninhabitable.  But there are some things
neither Senator Edmunds nor the Hon. John Ran-
dolph Tucker, nor others of the same stamp can
do.  They cannot stamp out Mormonism from the
hearts and souls and consciences of those who
have embraced it honestly, and have received a
testimony of its sacred truths.  Persecution can-
not kill a principle, nor can imprisonment, or tor-
ture of any kind, and though laws are made to
root up and abolish it, the seed is sown and will
bear its fruit, notwithstanding all the influence of
the great, the noble and the wise of the kingdoms
and governments of this world combined together.
He who holds the nations and kingdoms and
kings and rulers in His hand has decreed, and
His words cannot fail.
	Even this extremely tyrannical bill, that makes
Mormons, one and all, little better than slaves,
unless they subscribe to an oath, which denounces 
the principles of their religion wholesale, is not
bad enough to suit such men as Baskin, he him-
self stated 'twas not what he wanted; he wants
something more like the Hailey Bill, and could, 
doubtless, see every Mormon hung or put to the
sword.  The spirit of hatred and vengeance, that
characterizes the men who oppose Mormonism in
the present day, is just as vindictive and quite as
cruel as the spirit that sought to destroy the
ancient Saints, when they cast the Prophet Daniel
into the lions' den, and the three Hebrew children
into the fiery furnace;  but even as they were
thwarted in their attempts to take the life of the
chosen of God then, so will they be in this day,
and all their cunningly concocted schemes will
fail, and the principles of truth stand firm as the
rock of ages, and those who abide in the principles

[Column 3]
revealed through the Prophets of God in this dis-
pensation will come off more than conquerors
There is no danger, so great as that of falling away
or becoming indifferent to the voice of the Holy 
Spirit, that leads into all truth, and which, under
all circumstances, is a sure guide and shield and
protection to the Latter-day Saint.


