PRIMARY PARTY.

	The Third Ward, St. George, Dec. 29th,
1886, gave an interesting party. Having an
invitation, I attended the happy children's 
party, given them by the President, Sister
Margaret Mathie, who had provided everything
for their comfort and amusement. Over seven-
ty-five children, boys and girls, were present.
The party was called to order by the President.
The child choir sang, "Happy Children," ac-
companied on the organ by Sister Warren.
Prayer by Sister Mathie. The choir very 
beautifully rendered, "Love at Home."


Then came a time of feasting for the children
on the good things provided for them. A recita-
tion came next in order, by Louisa Cox, entitled,
"Goodbye, Little Bird." Martha Mills and
Ella Bird sang, "Poor Mary came o'er the
Wild Moor," very sweetly, which song was re-
peated. A funny little dialogue, by three little
girls—"What are we good for"showed that
little girls can be of use. "Running away from
home," a dialogue by three boys, pictured
the folly of leaving a good home for the uncer-
tain life of a great city. An original piece by
Sister Mathie was recited as follows:

	O God, the Eternal Father!
		May our faith increase in thee;
	Though our eyes grow dim and shaded,
		May our spirits always see.

	May we e'er be true and faithful,
		And walk in the narrow way,
	May our path to life eternal,
		Grow brighter every day.

	Be kind to the poor and needy,
		The lame, the halt and blind,
	Then in the restoration
		Our place we'll surely find.

	Speak a kind word to the erring,
		For they have the debt to pay,
	And thank God, our Heavenly Father,
		That we've chose the better way.

	Let us teach to Zion's daughters
		To shun the path of sin;
	With words of persuasion and kindness
		Do let us gather them in.

	Say to the gay and thoughtless,
		"It's no time for idle glee,
	For soon the judgments of heaven
		All over the nations will be."

	Next Joseph Mills told what he would do
when a man. "Curfew shall not ring to-night,"
was well spoken by Alma Clark. Two little
girls sang, "Merry Bells," with Sister Warren
accompanying on the organ.
	Then came a recess, and after the children 
came in William Higgins spoke on intoxicat-
ing drinks. Delia Nixon played on the organ,
while the choir sang, "Round the Throne of
God." Mary Cox spoke, very feelingly, "The
Letter." "We're Marching on to Glory," was
sung, Candy, nuts and popcorn were passed
around, and the smiling children dismissed by
Lizzie Cox.
