DEAR EXPONENT:
	10:50. The country grows pleasanter. Fields
are green, and land is being plowed; trees are 
beginning to leaf out, and low mountains or
hills form a background. The sun shines for
the first time since I left home. Things are
not as forward as in Utah, and I miss the irri-
gation ditches.
	Strong City, 11:15. Another wooden town;
wooden houses, wooden fences, and a general
wooden look. There is considerable timber in
this section of the country, but we cannot de-
termine just what kind it is.
	Emporia, 11:55. Quite a large city; street
cars, omnibus and hacks, the first I have seen
since leaving home. Houses of frame and
brick. Depot house of white sandstone. Pleas-
ant streets and fine stores and dwelling houses.
Looks, as we pass through, as if it might com-
pare favorably with Salt Lake City, but it does
not cover so large an area. Inhabitants given
at 4;500. It lacks one of the elements that
constitutes the beauty of Salt Lake City, and
that is, orchards and shade trees. There are
some orchards in the suburbs, but not in bloom.
There are quite a number of churches which
would denote a Christian population.
	Passing through the country we see large
corn fields from last year, the stalks still stand-
ing. It looks strange to see so much level
country. One fancies it must be cloudy, and
the mountains will be there when the clouds
clear away.
	Osage City, 1:15 p.m. Another wooden
town.  It looks so strange to see all the houses
of frame.  No more adobies and very little
brick.  Mrs. H—— is asleep, but I rouse her
up to look at the negroes—a house full of
them.  Black faces of all sizes peering out of
the doors and windows, and standing on the
porch.
	Topeka, 2:45 p.m.  Twenty minutes for
dinner. Topeka is the capitol of Kansas It
is a city of thirty thousand inhabitants. All
is bustle and confusion, but very little of the
city can be seen from the depot.
	Lawrence is a pretty town on the Arkansas

[Column 2]

River. Nice houses, with lawns and yards
nicely laid out. We are passing through a
timber country. New clearings are being
made, and the farms are full of stumps. We
travel for some time through woods.
	Kansas City, 5 p.m. Here we change cars.
It is a lovely city. The houses are built on
the hillside in terraces, one row above another.
The effect is very fine, but I should not fancy
the climbing. We cannot see all the city, but
the depot is very large and filled with cars.
Here we meet Bro. John Morgan, and Bro.
Nelson leaves us to go with him south. They
go to Chattenooga, after visiting New Orleans.
Three of the other brethren go with them.
Here we cross the Missouri River.
	Muscatine, 7 a.m., Friday, April 17th, 188—.
It seems to be a great lumber emporium and a
large city. Here we strike the Mississippi
River, the father of waters. We passed a hard
night; the cars are not so comfortable as the
ones we left, and we got but little sleep. We
have re-arranged our seats, and made ourselves
as comfortable as possible, when the river meets
our view. I remembered the days when I
lived on its banks, and the happy hours I had
spent searching pebbles on its shore. The last
time I saw it was when we crossed it in our
exodus from Nauvoo. My heart thrills as I
watch it, and I forget that I am weary or hun-
gry. There is a steamboat passing.
	Davenport, 7:45.  Cross the river to Rock
Island, and soon lose sight of it. We pass
through Moline, and see the large factory
where the Moline plows are made. We are in
Illinois now, and the country is level and wet.
It stormed hard last night, and is cloudy now.
Very little land is plowed, and no wheat up
yet. The country is covered with water and
mud.  I think the country must be pleasant
when the weather is fair. We pass hills and
woods, farms and vineyards. At Peru we ran
over a cow and killed it. We are traveling
along the Illinois River, and nearing Chicago.
We go to the dressing room and wash and
comb preparatory to changing cars.
	Jolliet. Here the States' Prison is situated.
It is a fine looking city. We pass a beautiful
cemetery, and immense stone quarries and
groves of timber. The ground is green, but
the trees are bare yet. The whole country is
covered with rain and mud.
	Chicago, 3 p.m. We have been duly trans-
ferred from our landing place to another depot,
and have to wait there three hours for the
train. It is raining hard. Some of the
brethren go out to see a little of the city, but
the ladies remain inside. We have seen noth-
ing as yet, for we entered the city between two
rows of freight cars, and see nothing but the
tops of stone buildings and masts of boats
bristling above the cars. We enter a covered
depot, and are emerged in covered carriages,
and see very little but a mass of high stone
walls. Sister Harrison and I go into the
restaurant and get a warm dinner.
	We leave Chicago at 5:15 on the Chicago
and Atlantic. We have a special car. It is
still raining, and all we can see is mud and
water.
		To be Continued.


