		ANNE MARTHA RASMUSSEN, Prest. R. S.

	DIED, at Nephi, Dec. 31st, 1886, of paralysis, Sister
Julia Bryan, wife of the late C. H. Bryan. Deceased was
born in France, January 2d, 1812. She embraced the Gos-
pel in 1851; was baptized by Bro. Bolton. Emigrated to
Utah in 1853, and came to Nephi the same year, where
she resided to the time of her demise. She joined the Re-
lief Society at its organization, and was chosen to hold the
office of teacher. She afterwards held the office of Assist-
ant Treasurer until June last, when she resigned that posi-
tion on account of declining health. "Aunt Julia," as she
was familiarly called, was a diligent and earnest worker in
the interest of the Society, faithful in the discharge of every
duty, diligent in taking care of everything committed to her
charge. Rejoiced in meeting with the sisters and bearing
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, as taught and prac-
tised by the Latter-day Saints. She left home and kin-
dred to cast her lot with the people of God. On Sunday,
her seventy-fifth birthday, her remains were followed from
the family residence to the meeting house; by her family
and intimate friends, the Stake and local officers, teachers,
and a number of the members of the Relief Society. After
singing by the choir, "Softly beams," etc., a very impres-
sive prayer was offered by Bishop Udall. The choir sang,
"Mourn not the dead," etc. The congregation was ad-
dressed by President C. Sperry, George Kendall, Andrew
Love and David Cazier. Her remains were followed to the
cemetery by a large number of citizens, conveyed in
carriages (about forty in number). Singing by the choir,
'Unveil thy boson," and "Wanted on the other side."
	At a meeting of the Relief Society, Dec. 6th, the follow-
ing Resolutions were adopted:
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to release
from her suffering our beloved sister, Julia Bryan,
	We, as officers and members of the Relief So-
ciety, feel to acknowledge the hand of God in taking
from our midst a good, noble, upright and devoted mem-
ber of our Society, feeling that she has accomplished a
noble mission, lived in the celestial order of marriage, and
with her sister wife labored for the interest of the family. In
blessing, she was indeed blessed, with the love and affection
of her husband's children and grandchildren.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
family in the loss of a faithful member and devoted friend,
and that we, her co-laborers, strive to emulate her exam-
ple.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be placed

[Column 3]

on the Relief Society records, printed in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and a copy given to the bereaved family.
		MARY PITCHFORTH,
		AMY L. BIGLER, Committee.
