	BY ELDER H. E. BOWRING.

	"Why can't they be like the rest of us?"
This remark was made by Grover Cleveland,
President of the United States of America, in
reference to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in Utah, and was no doubt
elicited by the thought that if that people
could be induced to give up their faith in the
revelations of the Almighty (which the Presi-
dent and the majority of mankind do not
recognize), it would save the government and
himself much trouble and expense, and the
people vexatious prosecutions, imprisonment
and much suffering. There is no doubt that
the President was honest in the thought that it
would be for the benefit of those alluded to;
but let us consider the question, and see what
we would be like. Would it benefit us to be
like their corrupt politicians, pettifogging law-
yers, and time-serving priests? Shall we con-
form to the practices and vices that appear in-
separable with the boasted civilization of the
present age, and be like "the rest of them" in
their licentiousness, debauchery and drunken-
ness; their swindlings, robberies and defalca-
tions? Shall we adopt their dreadful practices
of infanticide, fœticide and abortion; their
assignations, seductions and adulteries; their
murders, suicides and pollutions? Shall we
copy them in their man-made systems of reli-
gion, having a form of godliness but denying
the power thereof; ever learning, but never
able to come to a knowledge of the truth?
Shall we heap to ourselves teachers having
itching ears, and turn the truth into fables?
Shall we, like them, transgress the laws, change
the ordinances, and break the everlasting
covenant? Shall we imitate them in what is
admitted by themselves to be a social evil, and
have our beautiful cities infested with thousands
of prostitutes, bringing disease, death and per-
dition to our once happy homes, corrupting our
chaste, virtuous and lovely sons and daughters,
and instead of a comparative heaven, bring a
very pandemonium of evils into our midst?

[Column 2]
Shall we repudiate our wives whom we have
covenanted to love and cherish not only for
time, but for eternity? Shall we turn them
out, and trust them to the tender mercies of a
cold-hearted and cruel world, and have them
branded with the name of harlot, and consign
them to a life of shame? Shall we allow our
much loved and cherished sons and daughters
to be branded with the name of bastard? those
whom we have reared in happy homes, taught
to be strictly chaste and virtuous, bringing
them up in the fear and admonition of the
Lord, teaching them to be sober, industrious,
honest, God-fearing and law-abiding? Shall
we disobey the commands of God, and ally
ourselves with the world, the flesh and the
devil? Our answer is No, no, no! a thousand
times No! Now in the celestial order of mar-
riage, to which, evidently, the President was
alluding, who is injured? Who complains?
Who murmurs? Have the parties who of
their own free will and choice have entered
into the covenant of eternal companionship,
asked for protection from the courts or the
federal government? Have they complained
of cruelty, desertion or neglect, unhappiness,
misery or want? Are not our wives and child-
ren well fed, housed and clothed, and sur-
rounded with the necessaries, comforts and
many of the luxuries of life? Will not our
people compare favorably with those of any
State or Territory in the Union? Let our
wives and children answer, for they are direct-
ly interested. Let the disinterested traveler,
merchant and statesman, who has had the
opportunity of visiting our happy homes, our
comfortable firesides, our thrifty farms, factories
and workshops, tell of our brotherly love, our
hospitality, our love of hearth and home, our
affection for our wives and children, and our reve-
rence for our country, our religion and our
God. Thousands could testify of the truth of
these things if they had the moral courage to
proclaim themselves friends to an unpopular
religion and people. The writer of this article
has seen in the past four months in England
more contentions, jealousies, evil speaking,
angry passions, unkindness, envy, malice and
uncharitableness in the monogamic relation,
than he has in all his thirty years' experience
among the despised, but happy Latter-day
Saints in Utah. Who, then, shall we imitate?
Shall we not strive to be like the ancient
worthies, who, through faith, subdued kingdoms,
wrought righteousness, obtained promises,
stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the
violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword,
waxed valiant in fight, and put to flight the
armies of the aliens? Like them, and like
those noble Saints of latter days, when persecu-
ted, imprisoned or tormented, we will not ac-
cept deliverance at the expense of our honor
and integrity to our covenants, knowing that
we will obtain a better resurrection and an ex-
altation in the kingdom of our God. We will
rather follow in the footsteps of Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob, of Moses, Elkanah and
Hannah, of ancient apostles and prophets,
also those of our own day. We will imitate
the example of those noble women of Utah,
who recently met in convention at the Salt
Lake City Theatre, where thousands of our
wives and mothers, sisters and daughters,
young and old, protested against the prosecu-
tions and persecutions of their husbands and
fathers for their faith in, and obedience to the
commandments of the Almighty. Their resolu-
tions and protestations were echoed and en-
dorsed by their sisters in every city, town and
hamlet of the Latter-day Saints. In the
words of our immortal poetess, "Our hearts are
fixed; we know in whom we trust" We will
follow their noble examples; our faith is as firm
as the everlasting hills, as unchangable as the
immutable laws of Jehovah. Through obedi-
ence to the everlasting Gospel we have obtained

[Column 3]
a perfect knowledge that the Almighty lives;
that through the atonement of our Lord and
Savior Jesus Christ we can obtain salvation by
obeying the laws and ordinances of His king-
dom; that He does and always will reveal His
mind and will to His servants the prophets,
when He has a Church upon the earth; that
He has given us laws to obey in the age in
which we live, and revealed them to his apos-
tles and prophets; that the angel has come to
the earth who was spoken of by John the
Revelator (Rev. xiv, 6), and delivered the
everlasting Gospel to the Prophet Joseph Smith,
who came forth with the same promise the
Savior gave in His day when upon the earth,
that if any man would do the will of his
Father, he should know of the doctrine,
whether it was of God or not, and that the
signs should follow and be enjoyed by those
who believed and obeyed the message of life
and salvation, with all the gifts and blessings
that were enjoyed by the ancient Saints.
	The Elders of the Church have gone forth
proclaiming the message of life and salvation
to the inhabitants of the earth, warning them
of the judgments that will be poured out upon
those who will not know God nor obey the
Gospel of His Son Jesus Christ. After their
testimony the prophet declared they should
have the testimony of plagues, pestilence and
famine, earthquakes, bloodshed, secret combina-
tions, wars and rumors of wars. Desolation
and death should stalk through the land, until
the inhabitants of the earth should be destroyed
and but few men left. Knowing these things,
who shall separate us from the love of Christ?
Shall tribulation or distress, or persecution  or
famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? "For
I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life,
nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor
things present, nor things to come, nor height,
nor depths, nor any other creature shall be
able to separate us from the love of God which
is in Christ Jesus our Lord."—Millennial
Star.

