[WomansExponent | Vol6 | 1877 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: HER OWN EMANCIPATOR. | Author: Unknown]

HER OWN EMANCIPATOR.

	I do wish wish papa wouldn’t frown so every
time I ask him for a little money, I haven't
got a single new article to wear at Mrs.
H-----s reception and it will be such a bril-
liant affair I know, for Judge Harcourt’s
daughter is going to make her first appear-
ance in an elegant satin just imported from
Paris, and the Lancott’s displayed their
new silks expressly made for the occasion,
just to mortify me. Oh dear, what am I
put into this world for if I can’t enjoy it as
others do!"
	Such and similar exclamations find ut-
terance with our gay young girls at every
little disappointment. To them life is a
ceaseless round of sensation, pleasure, gos.
sip and vexations. Their tireless brains
are forever employed in devising new plans
to outrival others in apprearance. "What
will I wear? What will they say? Will
I be admired?" Are the three absorbing 
questions on her shopping tour, during her
social visits, and in her privte apartment 
before the looking glass. Even her lover 
knows how best to possess himiself of her
favor, for he never feails to supply himself
with an abundant store of flattery, so pleas-
ing to such a woman's ear.
 But in justice to those whose idea of life
is this suggested, I must add that in many
this is but the external, the false substi-
tute of that inner life which contains no-
bler thoughts, higher aspirations that the
world dreams of. That inner life is secret-
ed in the recess of her heart undeveloped;
its owner is scarecely aware of its presence
unless occasion calls forth its hidden pow-
er and makes woman what she should be,
strong in her own right, independent and
self-reliant in her undertakings. But those
faculties rarely make their presence felt in
her actual life, for public sentiment frowns
severely on any woman who dares venture
out of her supposed sphere. They are not
allowed to think or act for themselves; how
could they if htey figured as mere slaves
and toys in the eyes of men? And if for-
merly a solitary wall or protest agaisnt this 
injustice was heard, and known to strike
the chord of sympathy in the kindred
hearts of their sister sufferers, it was quick-
ly smothered by the overwhelming voice of 
public opinion that despotic power which
has so long held women in subjection.
     But a new era has dawned for women.
What was years ago whispered in privacy
under the seal of secrecy, is now publicly
discussed in society; womans inner, nobler
life is coming to the surface, and, in spite
of every obstacle, developing itself with
marked rapidity. Emboldened by the con-
sciousness of their ability they are gradu-
ally rising one by one to appreciate and de-
mand their rights. The doors of universi-
ties and colleges are yielding to the per-
sistent demand for admission; the fields of
industry and progress are open for the ex-
ercise of their ingenuity and skill and wo-


man, single handed and alone, can in every
avenue of labor work her way with profit
to an independent, comfortable position.
T' is true, a woman's first attention should
always be directed to the home circle, but if
she has no domestic affairs to attend to,
should she then in that case be supported
in idleness by the industries of others?
She has a right to engage in business where
her talents may be a source of benefit to
the community; and being in business,
paying taxes, ought to give her an equal
right to the privileges of the ballot.  Of all
the wrongs against which women have bat-
tled, taxation without representation is the
greatest and most difficult to remove.
	But, patience! the hour of deliverance
is near.  The early advocates of womans
rights are slowly but determinedly filing
away at the last link of that long chain of
difficulties which has been their work for
half a century to remove.  When that link
is severed, and those fetters mingle with
the dust at her feet, woman will stand be-
fore the world emancipated.  But to her-
self, and not to men, must she look for the
result.		BERTIE A. WINKLER
"Woman's Words."


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DISSIPATION.—There are three kinds of
dissipation in the world—white red, and
black dissipation. White, dissipation is the
waste of nerve and excessive use of the
brain; there are pious dissipation, scholarly
dissipation, business dissipation, the disi-
pation of the men who, with salutary shud-
ders, “thank God that they are not as oth-
er men are.” Bed dissipation is the dissi-
pation of increase of blood by luxurious
food, or the waste of blood by all those pass-
ions and indulgencies which come of luxu-
rious living. Black dissipation is that of
the grosser indulgencies which criminal
men seek. The first named is increassng
rapidly and taking the place of the lower
grades. The peculiar folly of our age is the
waste of nerve force. In all directions we
see the sign of brain dissipation. The dis-
eases of virtuous men are no longer what
they used to be—blood diseases. Paralysis
is beating up in every community and find-
ing recruits. Good men are living too fast.
Each man is swept up against his will into
the tumult of life. The great army of in-
somnists is increasing, and such men have
a call to lunacy.


