ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY.

   It is pleasant to reflect upon the many sweet as-
sociations we have had with those who have been
faithful servants and handmaidens in the Lat-
ter-day work.  The subject of this brief sketch
was one of the most truly refined of women.  In
spiritual cultivation she ranked among the
highest, and her grace of manner, courtesy and 
kindness won all hearts.  She possessed that
genuine simplicity which is ever childlike and
which invariably reminded one of the Savior’s
words, “Except ye be as this little one, ye can
in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven."
	Elizabeth Ann Smith was the daughter of
Gibson and Polly Bradley Smith, and was
born the day after Christmas Dec. 26,. 1800 at
Derby, New Haven Co. Conn.  When young
she received what in those primitive times, was
considered a superior education; for in addition
to the common branches taught in the village
schools, we learned the art of dancing, un-
der the best masters.  Her early home-life was
most happy, and she grew up in an atmosphere
of love and tenderness without care or sorrow.
She was carefully instructed in all household 
employments, and in spinning flax and fine or-
namental needle work, these things in those days
were considered essential branches of woman’s
education.
	When about,18 years of age she went with
a maiden aunt,  Sarah Smith (spinster) to
Ohio on a visit, but it so happened that she
never returned to her old home again, nor did
she ever afterwards see her beloved mother.
She married Oct. 26, 1822 Newel K. Whitney
a young man from Vermont, who had estab-
lished himself in mercantile business in the
West, and after their marriage they settled per-
manently in Kirtland, Ohio. Subsequently
Bro. Whitney and wife became devoted mem-
bers of the Campbellite Church.  (In 1830,
Parley P. Pratt visited Kirtland and preached
the Everlasting Gospel, and among the first to
receive his testimony were Brother and Sister
Whitney, who were baptized in November
1830.  At that time Sister Whitney had three
children living and two had died.  The follow-
ing Spring when Joseph the Prophet and his
wife Emma went to Kirtland it was at the
house of Newel K. Whitney they were gladly
received and hospitably welcomed.  Many of
the revelations given in that early day, Joseph
recieved in one of their upper rooms.  The gift
of song which Sister Whitney possessed in such
a rare degree was often a comfort to the Pro-
phet in those days of trial and gloom.  He
would sit as it were spell bound and listen to
the rich melody of her magnificent voice for
the time so absorbed, as to forget his sorrows.
Very early in the Church she receieved the
gift of tongues  which manifested itself to her
in songs of praise and rejoicing.  She possessed
a reverential, prophetic and poetic tempermeet
and the spirit of the Gospel strengthened in
her all these exalted attributes.  The language
she sang, was the pure Adamic and Joseph pro-
mised her if she used the gift in wisdom she


[Column 1]
should never lose it and his words were verified.
	If all the hymns, psalms, and songs she has
given utterance to had been written, we should
have a choice collection of musical pieces.
Her voice was birdlike and full of symphony,
	Sister Whitney removed from Kirtland to
Illinois in 1838, and arrived in Nauvoo in the
spring of 1839.
	In Nauvoo the beautiful home of the weary
Saints who had fled from the mobs of Missouri,
there was much suffering from chills and fever,
it was what is termed an ague country, and the
people were not prepared to battle with it.
The family of Bishop Whitney were afflicted
with this terrible disease, all succumbed one
after the other until there was not one left to
wait upon the others; but kind and loving
friends ministered to them and on more than one
occasion the Prophet Joseph himself prepared
tea and took to them, offering it himself for their
nourishment. Sister Whitney was very delicate
and had been accustomed to servants to wait
upon her, now she was ill and a family of
children sick looking to her and no servant
to help her, but few luxuries and poor accom-
modations, still no complaint ever escaped her,
no repining for the home she had left. She
cheered and encouraged her husband through
all the trials they experienced, and was a help-
meet to him in very deed.
	In 1840, before they had succeeded in get-
ting a home of their own or any comforts
around them another son was born which in-
creased the number of children to seven and
the mother's care and responsibility was thus
enlarged but no murmur was ever heard from
her lips. Her smile was as sweet, her voice
as musical as ever, and the sisters who were
greatly perplexed with many things, and often
sorely tried, would go to Sister Whitney for
counsel and sympathy and she turned none
away empty, but in her beautiful way strength-
ened them in humility and good works, thus
helping to lift the burdens that oft press heavily
upon womankind.
	Sister Whitney was one of the very first of
her sex who received the ordinances of the
House of the Lord and to officiate as a Priest-
ess in holy places and afterwards in the Temple
in Nauvoo where hundreds of the daughters of
Eve were blest under her hands. When the
Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo she
was chosen and ordained First Counselor to the
President, Emma Smith, and being possessed
of the greateat genuine sympathy and benevol-
ence she was well adapted to the position, and
filled it with honor and credit, gaining the love
and gratitude of all to whom she was called
through circumstances to minister, ever be-
stowing favors and blessings in the most unos-
tentatious manner. Sister Whitney has always
been possessed of great, yea, mighty faith in
administering to the sick and afflicted.
	In Nauvoo the Church progressed rapidly in
knowledge of things pertaining to preparation
for a future state. Many wonderful principles
were revealed to the Prophet Joseph and from
him to his faithful brethren and sisters. Sister
Whitney was one of the purest of women and
was therefore a chosen vessel of the Lord.
She was taught the principle of plural marriage
by the Prophet himself and as a proof of the
testimony she received from the Lord in ans-
wer to prayer; she and her husband gave in
this order of marriage their daughter Sarah
Ann when seventeen years of age to the Pro-
phet Joseph, with their free and full consent.
She was the first woman given in this dispensa-
tion with the consent of the parents. These
things were not done rashly but in the fear
of God with fasting and prayer. In Jan-
uary 1844, Sister Whitney became the honored
mother of the first child born in the new and
everlasting covenant of marriage, a daughter
whom the Prophet blessed when a babe and
named Mary.

[Column 2]
	It was very early in the year 1845 that Bis-
hop Whitney decided to enter upon the practise
of the principle of plural marriage, and his wife
freely and with characteristic magnanimity of
soul gave her consent for others to share with her
the home and society of the husband she loved
and honored. Such proof of devotion to prin-
ciple cannot be ignored by One on high, who
sees not as man sees, and those true daughters
of Sarah who established the new and ever-
lasting covenant of marriage upon the earth
in this dispensation have secured to themselves
"a more exceeding and eternal weight of glory."
	In February, 1846, when the Saints were
exiled from their homes. while the Mississippi
was frozen over, Sister Whitney left her com-
fortable home, and crossing the river on the
ice with her little children, who were feeble
and sickly, she bade adieu to all, without ever
repining, and endured all the hardships inci-
dent to traveling through a new and unbroken
country. In consequence of exposure, and
sleeping upon the cold ground, she contracted
rheumatism, from which she never entirely re-
covered; she suffered very greatly, and at one
time almost entirely lost the use of her right
arm; through faith and anointing it was re-
stored, though never entirely free from pain. 
	While encamped at Winter Quarters Sister
Whitney had another son born, making eleven
children in all that she had borne. She suf-
fered very much, but she had always a testi-
mony to bear to the truth of the Latter-day
work. Her little son was called Newell Mel-
chizedek, and although he was small and fee-
ble, yet she clung to him with that marvelous
faith which she possessed in such an eminent
degree, and when to all human evidence he
seemed to be dead, she cried unto the Lord,
and He gave her the dead to life again in an-
swer to prayer. In Winter Quarters, Sister
Whitney passed through some of the most try-
ing ordeals which woman could suffer and live,
yet her faith remained unshaken, and she
seemed to draw still nearer to the throne of
heaven, laying all upon the altar for the Gos-
pel's sake. She had the joy and satisfaction of
having her two eldest sons, Horace and Orson,
among the pioneers who came to this valley in
1847. In May, 1848, she, with her husband
and family started enroute for the valley in the
company of Heber C. Kimball. The toils of
that wearisome journey, to that frail, delicate
mother, with her large family and helpless
babe, no tongue can tell, nor pen portray.
Only the angels, who possess infinite power, can
make a fitting record of such devotion and
heroism. Arriving in the valley in October,
worn and weary with fatigue and hardship,
Sister Whitney still preserved the same sweet
spirit and equanimity of soul. She had always
a word of consolation for those who had not
the same unbounded faith, and her charity, for
the weak and tried ones was most sublime.
	In September, 1850, not quite two years
after arriving in the valley, Bishop Whitney
died very suddenly; it was thought by many of
Sister Whitney's friends she could not long
survive after this sudden shock; and besides,
the Bishop had been a most attentive and de-
voted husband, almost anticipating her every
thought and wish. But Sister Whitney rallied
quickly, and accepted the conditions of her be-
reavement without complaint. Her little son,
who was afflicted with disease of the spine re-
quired the most constant and tender care, and
in her love for him and her anxiety he should
grow up to manhood, she was so intensely ab-
sorbed as to forget her other griefs and cares. 
	As soon as a place was prepared for endow-
ments, President Young called upon Sister
Whitney to take charge of the woman's de-
partment; and, leaving her little lame boy in
care of her daughter, Ann Maria, she went
day after day to bless the daughters of Zion,
and continued in this holy calling for many

[Column 3]
years, until her failing health would no longer
admit of the labor.
	In 1855 her little son, Newel M., died; but
he had lived to receive the ordinance of bap-
tism, and been ordained to the holy priesthood,
and so this faithful mother laid him away, feel-
ing that all was well and God knew the best.
She ministered for years after in the Endow-
ment House, which seemed the greatest conso-
lation after the death of her darling boy.
Her children one by one married, and her
home became more lonely, until at last she left
it to reside with her youngest daughter, Mary.
The same angelic spirit ever seemed to hover
over her, and wherever she went this sweet in-
fluence accompanied her. The sisters will re-
call with feelings of satisfaction the sweet mel-
ody of her voice, as she poured forth songs
of blessing and praise, in the pure language in
which she sometimes sung in the meetings in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms. But
she has gone from our midst; we miss her sweet
associations, but her memory will ever be fondly
cherished in the hearts of the women of Zion.
	Sister Whitney had been for more than
thirty-one years a widow, and for many years
the cares of life pressed heavily upon her, but
her spiritual nature was always equal to the
temporal burdens, so that she was never really
cast down, but buoyant with faith and hope.
We cannot mourn for her, for we know she is
happy; her pure spirit is free and untram-
meled, and she rejoices with those who have
gone before—Joseph and Hyrum, her own be-
loved companion, with whom she is reunited,
her little ones and the hosts of Saints who
await the morning of the first resurrection. 
Farewell, dearly beloved Mother in Israel, till
we meet again where there is no more parting
for ever and ever.
	Sister Whitney was the mother of eleven
children, six of whom are now living; she had
thirty-three grandchildren and thirteen great
grand children. She occupied at the time of
her death the position of Second Counselor to
Sister E. R. S. Smith, President Presiding Board
Relief Society.
	Perhaps no woman was better known in Is-
rael than Sister Whitney, unless it be Sister
Eliza. These two were intimately associated
from the early days of the Church in Kirtland,
and even before, in the Campbellite Church,
of which they were both members.
	The funeral of Sister Whitney was held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall on Friday Feb.
17th, at ten o'clock A. M. There were many
children, grand-children and other members of
the family of Bishop Whitney present, also
many officers and members of the Relief Society.
The hall was well filled with brethren and
sisters.
	A harp woven of choice and fragrant flowers
was laid upon the coffin a beautiful reminder
of the sweet angelic voice that has so often
gladdened the hearts of many. Also a sickle
wreathed in lovely white flowers and a sheaf of
wheat truly emblematic in its signification.
	Pres. A. M. Cannon conducted the services.
The Tabernacle Choir rendered "O my Father
thou that dwellest" Prayer by Elder John
Pack. Singing "Nearer my God to Thee."
After which remarks were made by Coun. D.
H. Wells, Elder Lorenzo Young, Apostle Wil-
ford Woodruff, Pres. Joseph F. Smith and
Pres. A. M. Cannon, the speakers dwelling
much upon the exemplary life and amiable
character of the departed. Choir sang "How
firm a foundation" &c. Benediction was pron-
ounced by Pres. Cannon.
	When the procession arrived at the cemetery
Coun. Wells offered prayer, dedicating and con-
secrating the ground. Choir sang, "There is
sweet rest in heaven."
	We publish, as a fitting testimonial of her
life and character, the poem written for her on
her last birthday.					E. B. W.


