EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE twenty-fifth session of the Legislative
Assembly of Utah closed its session last week.
Much hard work was accomplished by the mem-
bers, and some very good bills were passed and


obtained the signature of the Governor.  All the
bills passed which concerned women specially,
were vetoed by the Governor.
	Council Bill C. F. 26.  To establish and protect
the identity of married women, vetoed. H. F.
69. To protect the maternal rights of married
women, vetoed.  These two bills were Mrs. E.
P. W. Packard's framing and the contents of the
bill are as followes.
	"Be it enacted," &c.
	Section 1.  Henceforth woman shall retain the
same legal existence after marriage as before
marriage, and shall receive the same protection of
her rights as a woman, which her husband does
as a man; and for any unjust usurpation of
her natural cr property rights she shall have
the same right to appeal in her own name
alone, to the courts of law or equity, for redress,
that the husband has.
	Sec. 2.  All laws or portions of laws incon-
sistent with the forgoing are hereby repealed.
Mrs. Packard is from Chicago and has been
here some time in the interest of her bill which
she is anxious should receive the strength and ap-
proval of the Legislature in every State and Ter-
ritory.  Mrs. Packard is a very intelligent lady,
has had a fine education,her voice is pleasing and
she is possessed of a rare gift of language.
	We wish her success in her noble work for the
elevation of woman, and sincerely hope that all
Governors will not refuse to sign a bill for the
legal emancipation and identity of married
women.	History Of the Mormon Battalion, by
Daniel Tyler of Beaver is now ready for sale.
The book contains 376 pages, is printed in good
style on clear paper, large new type, and makes
a very handsome volume for the library or home.
The subject matter is most intensely interest-
ing. The first chapter Introductory is from
the pen of Pres. John Taylor, and is very affect-
ing, relating definitely the scenes and incidents
of the Martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum, his
own experience when with them in Carthage
jail wounded almost unto death.  It cannot fail
to impress the reader with admiration for the
character of those noble men who suffered so
curelly at the hands of a violent mob.  Then
follows a lengthy article by Gen. Thomas L.
Kane on the Mormons as he found them in 1846,
after the explusion from Nauvoo.  The second
chapter introduces the subject of the Mormon
Battalion and opens with a poem from the pen
of Eliza R. Snow.  The reader will not be dis-
appointed in this book, it is very ably written and
cannot fail to be attractive reading as well as
being truthful in all its details.  Brother Tyler
has been several years collecting and preparing
the matter and has spared neither means or
pains to make it a historical record of the cam-
paign.  He deserves the thanks and patronage
of the public for his industry and perseverance
for he has labored under great difficulties, and
has by indomitable energy at last succeeded in
publishing.  It is a book this people should put
into the hands of their children that they may
know the sufferings, toil, privation and hard-
ship endured by these brave volunteers and their
families.  The book is for sale at the office of the
Juvenile Instructor where it was published,
leather binding $3.00  cloth $2.50  morocco
gilt $4.25.


