CONCLUDED.

	Sister Zina spent a few days looking about
New York City, during which time she called
upon Dr. Holbrook, editor of the Herald of
Health, who received her with great courtesy 
and kindness, and with whom she had a most
interesting conversation on Utah.
	Leaving the great metropolis, she went to 
Jefferson County to visit her relatives; her old
home, the home of her childhood, was there
also, and many pleasant memories were awak-
ened on renewing old acquaintances and ram-
bling over the familiar places, and recalling
the scenes and incidents of other days. Her
friends welcomed her warmly, and were de-
lighted with her personally, but her religion
they wanted not. Indeed, it was offensive to
some of them. She met with amny who be-
lieved in spiritualism and advocated strange
theories, counterfeits in some instances of the
ordinances and powers of the Priesthood. Sis-
ter Zina attended a great many meetings in 
the different churches, and heard many cele-
brated divines of the day speak on the doc-
trines of their respective denominations.
	In October last Mrs. Young attended the

[Column 2]

Woman's Congress at Buffalo N. Y., and had
the opportunity of hearing addresses from some 
of the most popular speakers of the women of
our time. She was refused even five minutes 
to represent the women of Utah on the subject
of suffrage, although Mrs. Spencer, of Wash-
ington interceded for it.
	After the Buffalo Convention, she went back
to Watertown, to the northern part of the 
State, and from there to the State of Vermont,
to visit other relatives and gather up genealo-
gies. While in that State she had the privi-
lege of speaking on one occasion at a Temper-
ance Convention. She visited in Albany Co.,
New York, where there are a few Latter-day 
Saints, and always spoke in the meetings she
attended.
	Mrs. Young returned to New York City in
time for the N. W. S. A. Convention of the
State of New York, which she attended, and
where she met Mesdames Anthony, Gage, Lock-
wood, Blake, Slocum and other noted lady
speakers. Mrs. Young was not, however, in-
vited to speak, although she could have repre-
sented a class of women who have exercised
the privilege of the franchise for twelve years,
and were well acquainted with its practical
workings. There is no denying the fact that
the only difficulty in the way of representation
was "Mormonism." But Sister Zina is a Chris-
tian, possessing that meek and quiet spirit
which is in the sight of God of great price; 
but the world does not recognize it. Without 
being aware of Mrs. Young's connection with
Utah and the Latter-day Saints, she might have
spoken anywhere that a woman would be allowed
the privilege of speaking at all. But while in
New York Sister Zina assisted the brethren in
organizing a Relief Society, and gave the nec-
essary instruction to initiate the sisters in their 
work.
	Lieut. Willard Young accompanied his
mother to West Point, where she had a most
interesting visit with Richard Young, from
Utah, now a cadet in the Military Academy
there.
	Mrs. Young went one evening to hear Dr.
Newman speak on Mormonism in a church in
New York City. His discourse was a tissue of
falsehoods on Mormonism throughout, and he
seemed to entertain a bitter and vindictive
spirit towards the "Mormon" people.
	Mrs. Young returned to this city on Tues-
day evening, March 7, and was made the re-
cipient of a surprise party of ladies, by her 
daughters, Mrs. Dougall and Mrs. Beatie. 
They had invited a few of their mother's inti-
mate friends to welcome her on her arrival.
Refreshments were served, and conversation
was free and unrestrained by coldenss or cere-
mony. Mrs. Phebe Beatie played in a very 
feeling and expressive style "Home Sweet
Home" on the piano.
	On the Friday following, March 10, the Re-
lief Soceity Conference of Salt Lake Stake
convened, where Sister Zina had an opportu-
nite of meeting and greeting many old friends,
who were ahppy in seeing her again in their
midst, and hearing her relate some interesting
experiences. The women of Zion welcome
Sister Zina back again to her mountain home;
here her worth is appreciated, here her labors
are greatly needed. The world know her not,
but in a future day they may perhaps be aware
of their error.
	There are many incidents in the lives of the 
women of this Church that are worthy of 
record, and will form interesting matter for
history; and foremost among those whose 
works of love and charity will help to embell-
ish history's page, will be the name of Zina D.
H. Young. 
	May her future be as rich in good works as
the past has been, and the rich experience
through which she has passed prove to her a
storehouse of wealth, from which she may

[Column 3]

draw at will for the benefit of others. Her
life has been woven of silker skeins, though
often hard twisted, and difficult to soften, and
occasionally a very rough place in the fine spun
thread which she has sought to weave in with
the skill of an accomplished artist, and all has
been so harmoniously blended by light and
shade, that looking back now over the com-
plete web still in the loom, one might wonder
if there were any rough, hard spots, all is so
apparently smooth and shining.	E. B. W.


