		IN ANSWER TO MRS. SCOTT.

	If we would be the children of Abraham,
then ought we not to do the works of Abra-
ham?  I believe if it was right in the sight of 
God, in the early ages of the world, for men
to have more than one wife, it is right to-day;
the God we serve is an unchangeable One.
	I ask, who in these last days would ever
have thought of such a thing as a man, under
 he name of religion, having more than one
wife, had not the Lord revealed it to him?
	Now, I have lived for many years in the
order of plural marriage, and to-day I am
thankful to my Father in Heaven that He 
ever gave me a true understanding of that
principle; it has many more advantages than
disadvantages. If we will lay aside our selfish 
feelings, and seek for the Spirit of God to
guide us, it is a light to our path all the day
long.  I would not change my position with
any woman of the world, for I could do so if I 
chose; but I would not forfeit my right to that
marriage relation with my husband for all the
treasures earth can give, for they vanish with
time, and we Mormon women are living for
eternity.  I can say truly that I am happy 
and free in my feelings.  I respect the wives


and children of my husband as much as it is
possible to do.  If jealous feelings arise, which
they will sometimes, we try to overcome them,
instead of yielding to temptation; and our
Heavenly Father helps us with the comforting
influences of His Holy Spirit, and shows us
our duties as wives and mothers, and we try to
do unto others as we would like to have them
do unto us.  We are surrounded with all the
necessary comforts of life, and comfortable
homes; we never have occasion to think that
our husbands are in bad company, or that they
are in company that will bring shame and dis-
grace upon themselves or their families. Then
I ask, what need has the outside world to trou-
ble about us?  We do not need their sympathy
nor their help;  if they will look after their
own welfare, we will look after ours, and we
know the Lord will help us if we will do His 
will and keep His commandments--and plu-
rality of wives is one of them.
	And who is the being that would deprive
me of that liberty of conscience, which my
Father in Heaven has given unto me, and unto
hundreds of my Mormon sisters.  If we would
go hand in hand with the wicked and unrigh-
teous, they would like our society; but we will
not, because we do not want to do so. We
wish to raise our sons and daughters honorable
men and women in the sight of God.  I wish
those honest-hearted ladies who think our lot
is so hard had their freedom to the extent that
we have:  they would not think that we
needed any pity.  There are more of the world
that are against us than there are for us; if
the world has not learned this one fact, it is
time they were beginning to learn it.  We will
not foster in our hearts the mammon of un-
righteousness.  The wicked may rage, and the
people may imagine vain things against us, but
our trust is in the Lord of Hosts.
					SARAH B. LAYTON. 
	Kaysville.


AT the regular monthly meeting of the Wo-
man's Suffrage Association of Missouri, at Pick-
wick Theatre, St. Louis, Rabbi Sonneschien
spoke earnestly in favor of the retention of the
franchise by the women of Utah.
	AN unsuccessful attempt was made upon the
life of Queen Victoria on Thursday March 2nd,
by a pistol fired at her as she was descending
from a train at Windsor station near Windsor
Castle.  This is the seventh time she has nar-
rowly escaped assassination.
	CHARLES DICKENS, JR, son of the great
novelist, is unromantic and practical enough to
devote himself to the more lucrative forms of
publishing, such as guide-books.  He has just 
issued the "Continental A B C Railway Guide"
for the use of English and American travelers.
	IN the House the Speaker announced a select
committee on woman suffrage as follows, Camp,
Shermin, Stone, Hepburn, Springer, Vance,
Muldron and Shackleford.  The motion was
previously carried in the House the votes stand-
ing 113 to 85.
	THE discovery of silk is attributed to one of
the wives of the emperor of China, Hoang-ti,
who resigned about two thousand years before
the Christian era; and since that time a special
spot has been allotted in the gardens of the
Chinese royal palace to the cultivation of the
mulberry tree and to the keeping of silkworms.


