THOUGHTS.

   It is a safe rule for us all and as wise as it is
safe to never do or say anything except that up
on which we can honestly ask the approval and
blessing of God.   Such a course will preserve
us from many temptations and deliver us from
many snares.  It will also strengthen us in the
path of daily duty.  Furthermore, that upon
which we ask the blessing of God, we should
do with all our might.  Half-heartedness is
not a virtue, especially in serving the Lord;
nor is it a recommendation in our daily con-
tracts with our fellow men.
   We should all have something useful to do,
and we should do it well.   Each of us should
choose an honest calling, and then endeavor to
be perfect in that calling.  It is not wise to
despise small things, for trifles make the sum of
large things and little, by little, step by step,
--seldom by giant strides--we progress towards
the perfection of goodness or retrograde towards
its opposite.  The toilers in the soil, in the 
mine, in the canyon and in the workshop con-
stitute the basis of the wealth of this  world
rich; and the more effectually that labor is
directed, the better for us all.  In this lies the
revelations of God, regarding the concerns of
our every day life.  Promptness, punctuality,
honesty industry and civility are key words to
success in the labors, the duties, and busi-
ness of life.
   Be prompt, thus you will be first in the mar-
ket.  Be punctual, then others will put con-
fidence in your word. Be honest, there is no
excuse to be otherwise; it wears the best and
triumphs in the end. Be economical, wasteful-
ness is one of the great sins of the age.  Be
polite, nothing valuable is lost by civility and
kindness. Be industrious for labor is life, and
withal trust in God and keep His laws.
					ERNESTINE HOLLING.
	Manuscript paper, 11th Ward.


ONE of the wealthy and fashionable women
of Zanesville, Ohio, astonished a large company
of keno gamblers by walking coolly into the
room where they were at play, accompanied by
a policeman. She was in quest of a young
brother who had become possessed of an uncon-
trolable mania for gambling; and she not only
took him away, but secured enough evidence
to convict the proprietors of the place, which
was closed up.

	LUCY STONE says that early in the legisla-
tive session in Maine Senator Dudley moved
to amend the Constitution by striking out the
word "male." He was denied a special com-
mittee, and his bill was not fairly treated.
Then the women of Maine sent in a petition for
school suffrage sixty feet long, with a double
row of names. On this petition there were a
majority and a minority report. A motion to
accept the minority report in favor of the pet-
itioners was carried by one vote. Immediately
a motion was made to indefinitely postpone
the whole question, which was carried by
the majority, at which there was loud ap-
plause." The bold Legislators had put down
the women in a place,where no woman could
speak or vote, and then they applauded them-
selves!—Ex.


