LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.

	Second Annual report of the Relief Society
of the Liverpool Branch of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints for 1881.
	The year now so near its close, has been
fraught with many important events to our So-
ciety. The experience which we had gained
during the first year of our existence as a society,
we have found very valuable to us, and we are
most happy to have to report, that during the
whole of the past year our Society has been
conducted in the most pleasant and smoothest
manner possible; all has been peaceful, harmoni-
ous, and full of love. The Holy Spirit of God
has been in our midst at all times, and we have
felt the blessed influence of His presence. Our
hearts have been filled with love and gratitude
to our Heavenly Father and we humbly and
gratefully thank Him for his great goodness.
	We had a membership of nine at the beginn-
ing of the year, but four of these have gone to
Zion. But we have filled up their places by
four others. We have held twenty-one meet-
ings during the year, and the attendance of the
members has been very good indeed. We have
been favored on many occasions with visits from
Elder C. W. Stayner, whose loving words and

[Column 2]
wise counsels did much to strengthen us in our
labors. As also we are much indebted to the
kind associations and faithful example of Sister
Stayner from whose lips the sisters have learned
many valuable lessons and received much
strength and encouragement; we realize how
much a faithful sister can do among the Saints
in this country.
	Elder John Donaldson, President of the Liv-
erpool Conference also paid us a visit which
gave us great pleasure his address will long
live in our memories, it has been to us all a
source of very great regret, that his labors away
from the city have prevented his repeating his
visit. Elder Scot Anderson the Branch Presi-
dent was frequently present at our meetings,
and furnished us with valuable information,
and gave us all the encouragement in his power.
The teachers reported 134 visits paid during
the year. And in listening to the reports from
time to time, we deeply feel that we have been
as instruments in the hands of God in assisting
to carry on His work and accomplish His pur-
poses. However fully or imperfectlly we may
have labored, all we have done has not been in
our own name or strength but in firm reliance
upon Him with whom we confidently leave the
result. We commenced the year with a bal-
ance on hand 3 9; during the year we nave re-
ceived 4-9-2; making a total of £1-12-11.
	It seemes marvelous how much good we have
been able to accomplish even with this small
sum every pressing need has been relieved
and we have 7s 6d in the treasury. In conclu-
sion we pray our Eternal Father to continue
His blessings to us and our Society and enable
us with full purpose of heart and firm reliance
upon Him at all times to continue to labor
faithfully in any part of His Vineyard where
our lot may be cast.
				E. H. JOHNSON, President.
				M. J. Anderson, Secretary.

