SOME THINGS FOR REFLECTION.
	The passage of the Edmunds' anti-polygamy
bill is at present the general topic of conversa-
tion. It passed the House by a vote of 199
against 42 on Tuesday, March 14. In what way
the United States government proposes to make
the law successfully practical, a person with the
most fertile imagination would be at a loss to de-
termine. One cannot help seeing for himself
that these plural families can never be separated
from each other without the most dreadful con-
sequences. Is the government of the United
States prepared to shoulder the responsibility of
such proceedings? Are those who voted for the
bill aware that they are bringing into bondage the
flesh and blood of their fellow creatures, born
free and equal with them? It seems impossible!
Are the very men who, by the spilling of so
much precious blood, liberated the negro from
slavery, about to place "in durance vile" white
men and women, and condemn them to ingno-
miny and shame, simply for the practice of reli-
gious principles which they implicitly believe to
be of divine origin?
	And is this condemnation, this punishment,
to be retro-active, extending back to those who
broke no law when they entered into that order
of marriage, since declared unlawful by the Su-
preme Court of the United States? Can this be
done? Can plural marriages be punished as a
crime, that were solemnized previous to the law
of 1862? Who are to be the greatest sufferers in
this conflict, when adverse legislation is sought
to be enforced here? Women and children prin-
cipally, as the proportion of these will be much
greater than that of men? Is it possible that
the wise men of this nation are so lost to the
consideration due men, women and children, that
they could see an innocent, inoffensive people
thus oppressed, thus cruelly wronged, their lives
embittered, their hopes of happiness shattered,
their happy homes desolated, their peaceful Ter-
ritory, now so inviting and prosperous, made the
scene of dire confusion, plunging it, by one
stroke of political power unwisely wielded, into
social and financial ruin.
	Such a momentous question has never at any
time in the history of the nation been brought
before the American Congress, and one cannot
help asking– how is it possible thus to deprive
American citizens of the birthright of freedom,
and disfranchise those whose forefathers valiant-
ly fought for the liberty of the Republic, render-
ing their condition more deplorable than that of
the poorest peasant in foreign lands? Thousands
of this people are as proud of their American
blood as any of the men who sit in the Congress
of the United States.
	For the honor of that august body, the Forty-
seventh Congress, it should be recorded there
were some high-minded, brave, fearless men
who dared to speak the truth in behalf of jus-
tice, even for the "Mormons." Their name


will be held in honorable remembrance while
time endures, by all people who are not grossly
blinded with prejudice.
	It yet remains for the President of the
United States to set his seal upon the Edmunds' 
bill—and after that its practical enforcement
through the five commissioners. The effect of
these changes upon the industrial affairs of the
people will be most disastrous. But there are
forces at work for the Saints not visible to any
human eye. This people are in the hands of that
God whom they have sought to serve, and He
will in His own way and time, work out their de-
liverance from evil of whatever name or nature.


