BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	There are on doubt hundreds still living who
heard the Prophet relate the circumstance men-
tioned in my mother's letter of one of the old
Nephites visiting England, Ireland and Scot-
land, and they can bear their testimony to the
fulfilment of Joseph's predictions on that day,
as well as all the rest up to the present time.
	In another of my mother's letters, speaking
of the signs of the last days which were seen in
various parts of the world she mentions the
following incident, which was seen by different
parties in Nauvoo, and by my request brother
Joseph Kingsbury, a man widely known and
respected for his truth and honesty, wrote the
following account which I here give verbatim.
	"In the Spring of 1840 about eight o'clock in
the morning Mrs. Rhoda Whitney Sister-in-law
to Bishop N. K. Whitney and her brother John
Ballard, my wife Caroline Whitney and myself
were crossing the Mississippi river from Mont
rose to Nauvoo when we saw the following
strange spectacle.
	When we had got about one third of the way
across the river we saw a couple of men about
sixty rods down the stream riding on horse
back on the top of the water. They were go-
ing diagonally down the river in the direction
of Joseph Smith's residence.
	We stopped our skiff and watched these men
until they reached the shore. Just as they ar-
rived at the shore the horses suddenly disap-
peared and the strangers remained on the shore,
the horses trotted along on the top of the water
just as they would have done had they been
trotting through a very shallow stream, gently
splashing the water hither and thither. We
resumed our rowing but our attention was con-
stantly directed towards them as they stood on
the shore until our view was obstructed by a
bend in the river.
					Jos. C. KINGSBURY.
	Near this time some of the worldlings a few
miles below Nauvoo were reported to have seen
upon the river two horses, one black and the
other pale. They with their riders landed in
Missouri.
	The Latter-day Saints had reason to believe

[Column 2]
that great events were near at hand but they
could hardly realize the extent of them. The
Church being then in its infancy they under
stood but very little concerning the plans and
purposes of the Almighty. They thought they
had sacrificed and suffered enough from the
scourgings and oppression of their enemies in
Ohio and Missouri and that they would soon be
gathered back to their homes from which they
had been so cruelly driven. It had not been
revealed to them how great and marvelous a
work the Saints of God were destined to accom-
plish before being prepared to go back to enjoy
their possessions where they were to build up
the centre stake of Zion, which is in Jackson
County, Missouri.
	Most of the inhabitants of that state were
filled with jealousy and hatred which increased
as our prosperity and power increased. Not
long after we settled in Commerce, four brethren
were carried by them into Missouri. One was
a brother Brown, whom they hung until nearly
dead, to force a confession from him, but he
made his escape by leaving his clothes and
wandering three days without food. He
brought word that they had whipped two or
the brethren—one of them nearly to death
when he fainted. They stopped whipping him
until he revived a little, and then they com-
menced whipping him again; but as no confes-
sion could be forced from them, they were com-
mitted to jail for trial.
	Brother James Allred was taken by them
and after having been tied to a tree and threat-
ened for some time, he was told that his grey
hairs would clear him and they set him at
liberty.
	Governer Carlin said he would take the mat-
ter into his hands and would go to the extent
of the law, if it caused a collision of the two
states.
	The following interesting items I copy from
my mother's letter to father, dated Sep. 6th,
1840.
	She says: "The brethren are still moving
in here very fast, several wealthy families ar-
rived last week from Philidelphia. I hope
they will help to build up the place. It is so
sickly here it is almost discouraging, there has
been rising of fifty deaths here within a few
weeks past, the sickness is mostly among those
who have come in this season. Mother Beamen
was buried one week ago to-day. She died of the
cholera morbus—was sick but a few days—
"Seymour Brunson is also dead, everything was
done to save him that could be done, but the
Lord had need of him. A short time before he
died he told Joseph not to hold him any longer
"for" said he, "I have seen David Patten and
he wants me, and the Lord wants me, and I
want to go." They then gave him up; at one
time as Joseph entered the room, he told him
that there was a light encircled him above the
brightness of the Sun—he exclaimed. The
room is full of angels they have come to waft
my spirit home." He then bade his family
and friends farewell and sweetly fell asleep in
Jesus."
	"He requested Joseph to preach his funeral
sermon, which he did. It was attended by
thousands of people. He was buried under
arms. The procession that marched to his
grave was judged to be a mile long. A more
solemn sight I never witnessed, and yet the
day was joyful, because of the light and glory
that Joseph set forth. I can truly say my soul
was lifted up.
	"I enjoy myself as well as I can deprived of
your society. My health is much better than
it was the forepart of the summer. Helen was
attacked very violently with chills last week,
but through the goodness of God she is again
restored. William works at Dr. Williams';
they keep tavern in the house where Brother
Granger lived; have all been sick more or less
all summer. William has also been attacked


once or twice with chills since he lived there.
The Doctor gave him something that broke the
chills. They are very careful of him, and he
has a horse to ride wherever he goes. Brother
Joseph Young volunteered to get up a contri-
bution to get me a cow, and he has bought me
a good one, for which I feel very thankful.
Brother Charles Hubbard gave me a pig last
spring, which I think if fed well will make our
meat for winter. I have plenty of vegetables
and garden sauce, so I shall not have much to
buy but bread. I hope I will not have to call
on the Bishop again while you are gone. I
have no fears about getting along. The Lord
is multiplying my friends daily; yea, I have
more blessings than I am worthy of; I think it
is because I have a worthy husband. I think
much of our English sisters.	*	*	*	I am
glad that Brother Brigham has sent some
assistance to his family, for they are needy
enough. Their house could hardly be called
a shelter; they will soon have it fixed now.
	Elizabeth and Vilate are both sick with
chills and fever; the rest of the families of the
Twelve are well as far as I know. I called on
Sister Young day before yesterday, and carried
a letter that I had just taken from the office;
it was from Brigham, written the last of June.
They were rejoiced to hear from him again.
They were in good spirits, and when they get
their house done they will be quite comfort-
able.
	Our little David is over one year old. I
can brag no more of his little plump body and
rosy cheeks, though his eyes are as black and
sparkling as ever. He has cut four teeth,
which has made him pretty sick; but I pray
the Lord that he may live that you may see
him again.	*	*	* The children join me in
love to their dear father.
	"I had anticipated seeing you this Fall, but
if it is the Lord's will for you to stay longer,
His will and not mine be done. President
Smith says I must always remember him to
you."
	I have sketched these ew incidents to show
how the Lord will bless and provide for those
who are willing to serve Him; who can say like
the Psalmist, "Blessed is the people that know
the joyful sound, they shall walk, O Lord, in
the light of thy countenance. For the Lord
is our defence; and the Holy One of Israel is
our King."

To be continued.


