VISIT TO TOOELE.

	By invitation of the Sisters at Tooele, we at-
tended their Conference in company with Sister
E. S. Taylor, leaving this city on Saturday
morning, the 11th inst. We arrived at Tooele
in time to hear the first hymn sung at the open-
ing of the Conference. The morning was mostly
occupied by the reading of reports, although
the President, Mrs. Hunter, and the sisters
from Salt Lake made a few remarks.
	The Conference of the Primary Associations
was held in the afternoon, a good attendance of
the children of Tooele, who answered readily a
chapter of questions from the book entitled
"Questions and Answers," by E. R. S. S.  Pres.
Gowans, of Tooele Stake, stated that Mrs. Re-
becca Williams, the former President of the P.
A. of Tooele Stake, had sent in her resignation,
having moved to another part of the Territory.
The resignation was formally accepted, and on
motion of  Bro. Gowans, Mrs, Sarah Hale, of
Grantsville, was appointed and sustained by vote
of the Conference to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Jane
Bowen was nominated and sustained as Presi-
dent of P. A., Tooele City, also in place of Mrs.
Williams, who had resigned.
	Evening session: Conference Y. L. M. I.
A. Tooele Stake. A very large congregation.
Minutes of previous Conference were read; also
reports. The remainder of the time was occu-
pied in giving instruction to the young people.
	Sunday morning we visited the Sabbath
School, which was very interesting indeed. The
children observed the best of order, and the ex-
ercises were very well rendered. The sisters
from S. L. City talked a little to the children.
	In the afternoon after the Sacrament was ad-
ministered, pursuant to adjournment, the Relief
Society Conference resumed its session, and
Prest. Gowans presented the officers of the Pre-
siding Board of the Relief Society of Tooele
Stake. In consequence of the vacancy occa-
sioned by the death of the First Counselor, Mrs.
Elizabeth Clegg; Mrs. Emily Warburton was
presented for the approval of the Conference;
the motion was unanimously carried. The
speakers were Mesdames E. B. Wells, E. S.
Taylor and Apostle F. M. Lyman. Conference
adjourned for three months.
	In the evening the Conjoint meeting of Y. L.
and Y. M. M. I. A. convened in the meeting
house, a very large assembly. The exercises
were well rendered and very interesting.
	During the meetings the attendance was very
large indeed, Apostle F. M. Lyman, Prest.
Gowan, Bishops and many other brethren being
present, and giving much encouragement to
those laboring in these organizations.


