IN MEMORIAM.

	The death of Mary Ann Ellis Watkins, oc-
cured under very trying circumstances. She died
in child-birth, at St. John's, Arizona, on the 16th,
of January, 1882. It was her first child. Both
mother and infant lived but a very short time
after the parent was delivered of her offspring.


[Column 1]
	The sad event waa not only a severe bereave-
ment to her husband, Elder Hyrum J. Watkins,
but also cast a deep gloom over the neighborhood,
in this city where she was raised. Sister Wat-
kins was widely known and much beloved, and
her early demise is deeply lamented.
	Deceased, a daughter of Elder John and Sister
Mary Ann Ellis, was born in Ogden City, Utah,
March 6th 1857, and was blessed when a babe
according to the order of the Church. She was
baptized July the 5th 1866, July 25th 1875, was
re-baptized. Being born in the Church, she was
a firm believer in all its doctrines as taught by
those who are called of God. She received a
knowledge of the truth of this great work, and
was ever ready to testify to it in the congrega-
tions of the Saints.
	On the 9th day of Sept. 1875, she first spoke in a
public meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. Her words
were few, but fervent. The were these, "I
feel rejoice in the goodness and mercy of God,
and desire to live so as to gain the reward laid
up for the faithful." She endured faithful to the
end, and with her infant son, "rests from her
labors and her works will follow her." She was
married to Elder H. J. Watkins, April 30, 1879,
in the House of the Lord.
	Sister Watkins was an active member of the
Y. L. M. I. A., a faithful worker, and never
wearied in well-doing she filled several official
positions in the Association, as secretary, coun-
selor to the president, &c., the duties of which
she discharged with honor and to the satisfac-
ion of all concerned.
	Sister Mary Ann has gone behind the veil.
We mourn her loss, but we do not sorrow as
those who have no hope. "Blessed are the dead
who die in the Lord," as she did, for her name
is embalmed in the memory of the righteous,
and will live through all generations to come.
	Her mother is President of the Second Ward
Relief Society, in this City. Her father, Elder
John Ellis, is now on a mission preaching the
Gospel in England.—Com.
	Ogden City, February 15, 1882.

	Resolutions of Respect. On the death of Sis-
ter Sarah J. Segmiller. Adopted at a meeting
of the Y. L. M. I. Association, Feb. 27, 1882.
	Whereas God, in His wisdom, has seen fit to
call from our midst our much loved and worthy
President, and,
	Whereas her labors in our Association
have been faithfully performed, we feel
that some proper recognition of her virtues be
had among us, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that we, as members of the Y. L.
M. I. A. deeply mourn the loss of so valuable
and faithful a co-laborer.
	Resolved, that we emulate the worthy ex-
amples of her life, which was one of purity, up-
rightness, and diligence in the performance of
her duty.
	Resolved, that we condole with each other in
this bereavement, and tender this token of respect
and love to her relatives and friends in this afflic-
tion.
	Resolved, that our banner be draped in mourn-
ing for thirty days, and that we present a copy
of these resolutions to her relatives and publish
the same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and the
Deseret News, and keep a copy of the same on
our record.

	Died at Hyde Park Cache Co., on the 18, of
Feb. 1882, Sister Cecelia Maria Hansen wife of
Peter Hansen, and daughter of Peter and Maria
Thomson, born April 16, 1856, Lendum, Jutland,
Denmark.
	Sister Cecelia has been a good and faithful wo-

[Column 2]
man, true to every principle of the Gospel. She
was a member of the Relief Society and ever
ready to do good, she leaves many friends who
sincerely mourn her loss and sympathize with
her bereaved husband and family.
								J. E. MOLEN.
	Hyde Park Mar. 3rd, 1882.

	Died of old age, Feb. 6, 1882, at the residence
of Mrs. S. M. Heywood, in this city, Sarah Sy-
monds Very, in her 97th year. She was the
widow of Johnathan Very, of Salem, Mass., and
by him had one child, a daughter, who long
since passed away; but she has two grandchil-
dren living in Boston. Deceased was the daugh-
ter of Sarah and William Symonds, and was
born in Salem, Mass., May 19, 1785. Sister
Very was baptized into the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elder Erastus
Snow in the Spring of 1842, at Salem, and emi-
grated to Nauvoo the ensuing year; at the time
of the exodus, left Nauvoo in care of Elder J. L.
Heywood. She came to the valley with his
family in 1848, and has ever since resided with
them.
	Sister Very has been for many years unable
to wait upon herself, and Mrs. Heywood and
the children cared for her with all the tender-
ness and devotion it is possible to render to one
we love. She was a woman of great strength of
character and a faithful Saint of God, true to
the principles of the Gospel and firm and stead-
fast in her faith, and has gone to rest in the full
hope of a glorious resurrection. There are many
Eastern people who knew her intimately, and
speak of her with the greatest reverence.
								E. B. W.

	Died, in Salt Lake City, Feb. 22, 1882, Sarah
Ann Needham, wife of Elder John Needham.
	Sister Needham was born Dec. 8, 1825, at New-
ton, Lancashire, England, and emigrated to
Nauvoo with the first company of Saints who
left England. She endured the persecutions,
and made a sacrifice of her home, in common
with the people of God, when the Saints were
driven from Nauvoo. Brother and Sister Need-
ham were married in Nauvoo, the ceremony be-
ing performed by Patriarch Hyrum Smith.
Came to Utah with her husband in 1857, where
she raised a family respected by all. She was
First Counselor to the President of the Relief
Society of the Eighth Ward from its first organ-
ization, and was an active and respected member
of that Society. She was a dutiful wife, a lov-
ing mother, and a faithful Latter day Saint.

