INTERESTING CONFERENCE.
 Semi Annual Relief Society Conference of 
S. L. Stake of Zion held in the 14th, Ward
Assembly Rooms in this City. Friday March,
10th, Mrs. M. I. Horne Presiding.   The morn-
ing was occupied with minutes of previous Con-
ference and reports from the several branches,
and some general instruction from President
Horne.


﻿Afternoon session:  The house was well filled
with sisters, and there were also in attendance
Pres.  A. M. Cannon, his Coun.  J. E.  Taylor,
and Elder Daniel Tyler of Beaver.  The stand
and the organ were draped with white, in honor
of the decease of two most eminent women,
Mrs. E. A. Whitney and Mrs. S, M. Heywood,
and the Relief Society banner was hung over
the stand.  It bears the date of the first organ-
ization in Nauvoo.  The stand and platform
were well filled with officers of the organization
and leading women.
  Sisters M. I. Horne, S. M. Kimball, Zina D.
H. Young, each made brief remarks expressing
their love for the dear departed sisters, and
their appreciation of their pure lives and dili-
gent labors.  Sister Zina also related some in-
cidents of her visit in the East.  Mrs. E.B.
Wells read Resolutions of respect to Mrs. E. A.
Whitney and Mrs. S. M. Heywood.  Mrs. Min-
erva W. Snow, President of Relief Society, St.
George Stake and Mrs. M. J. Atwood President
Relief Society, Summit Stake each made a few
remarks, also Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Mrs. Horne
them introduced to the audience Mrs. E. P. W.
Packard who occupied half an hour in speak-
ing upon a bill to establish and protect the
identity of married women, relating some in-
cidents of her personal experience in confirma-
tion of the necessity of such a law.
  Sister Helen Mar Whitney was nominated to
act as Second Counselor to Sister M. I. Horne
in the Relief Society of this Stake of Zion, in
place of Sister S. M. Heywood deceased.  The
motion was carried unanimous, and the other
officers of the board by vote of the meeting
were sustained.  Sister Whitney was blest and
set apart Pres. A. M. Cannon officiating assisted
by Coun. Joseph E. Taylor and Elder Daniel
Tyler.  Conference  adjourned  for  three
months.  Singing, and Benediction by Pres.
Cannon.
   The Conference of the Primary Associations
of Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th, Ward
Assembly Rooms,  Saturday  morning, Feb.
11,ult. Mrs. Ellen C.S. Clawson, presiding, the
attendance was very large indeed many having
to stand during the whole time.
 At intervals during the reading of the re-
ports, the children rendered some hymns in a
very creditable manner.  Remarks were made
by Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Zina Y. Wil-
liams, Mrs. Louio Pelt, and Mrs; Clawson.
 In the afternoon the Conference of the Y.L.
M. I. A., convened Mrs. Mary A. B. Freeze
presiding.  After the reading of the minutes
and reports, interesting addresses were deliv-
ered by Mesdames Young, Williams, Conrad,
Horne and Freeze, also Miss Mattie Horne.
Officers of Salt Lake Y. L. M. I. A., were sus-
tained and the Conference adjourned for three
months.
							E. B.  W.


BOTH Senators and six of the eleven Repres
entatives of Congress from Massachusetts are
in favor of suffrage for women.

	NINE of the thirteen Indiana Representatives
in Congress are openly pledged to support wo-
man suffrage.

	THE seventy-fifth anniversary of the birth of
the poet Longfellow was very generally and
heartily commemorated on the 27th of Febru-
ary by the schools throughout the country.

	IN London 700 female clerks are employed
at the central telegraph station at St. Martins-
le-Grand, while at the other metropolitan post
and telegraph offices there are 450 more, mak-
ing a total of nearly 1,200 women employed in
the post and telegraph offices of the metropolis
alone, without counting the large number en-
gaged throughout the country.


