EPISTOLARY EXTRACTS.
		-------
BY HANNAH T. KING.
		-------

	Your last letter was very suggestive to me,
and set my mind upon a retrospective train;
and now I am going to give you the sum and
substance of my meditations, which I assure
you were agreeable and  edifying to me;  for 
they took  me back to  phases of my life that
the sunshine of memory still lingers  over, for 
I realize in those epochs I received an impetus
that propelled me on to exaltation of mind and
character.
	Have you not realized in your past life, how
beneficial the association of some whom you
met in the path of life had been to you? Did
you not feel, when in their company, that you
seemed to spring to a higher grade of intelli-
gence? That the influence they threw around
you was like that we experience  in the first
vernal days of  the year? Every facutly in you
seemd fertilized, as though you were receiving
a newness of life! that your own mind produced
qualities you had not dreamed were there! your
perception became quickened, your compre-
hension clearer?  These  associates  became to
you  like Mentor to Talemachus! I feel that a
mind like yours, that has ever been open to
the pure and the beautiful, must be humble
and teachable; and must have experienced this
delightful spiritual intercourse, at least once
in your lifetime; and if you  trace back that
association, you will perhaps be astonished to
find how your mind has been colored and your
character moulded, by that intercourse! It
might be, and probably was, a woman much
older than yourself--one who had passed
through a hard school of experience, in that
finest of all schools, the world; who had seen
in it much that was beautiful--had even seen
in it the footprints of Deity--but had also seen
much that was chilling to the soul, and freez-
ing up of the affections. Yet there was that
strength and healthiness  in her composition
that defied disease, or even contamination; she
came from the furnace refined, purified and
strengthened. Such a woman is "an angel in
the way;” she has the faculty to develop the
characters she comes in contact with in the
journey of life, bringing out the latent talents
which even the possessor was not aware of!
Such an associate enlarges the heart, broadens
the brain, dispels narrow prejudices, expands
the sympathies,  destroys false knowledge,
teaches us not to waste and fritter away our
precious life and the time allotted us in trifles,
in this wondrous age of change and progress!
	To such a friend we owe a debt which noth-
ing but gratitude and appreciation can repay,
but carrying out in our lives the lessons they
so faithfully and lovingly exhibited for us to 
learn to practice.
	I would affectionately call  upon my young
sisters to reflect for a few moments on the few
hints I have just given; they are pictures drawn
from my own life! no fiction or imagination in
them, but evangel truth.  Let them be as one
of the silent voices by which we are surrounded,
to whisper to them to be careful with whom
they associate; for a real, true friend, one from
whom practical instruction can be derived, I
would say, choose one who has had a practical
experience--one who has walked the road of
life with her eyes open, and every faculty cul-
tivated and awake. In such an one there is
a set of beautiful, complex machinery, ready
for action, whether for the useful or the orna-
mental, whether for the intellectual or the
physical,  whether in "the house of feasting or
the house of mourning," in all she will be
equally ready and equally "at home."


