		FRIENDS

	Ah. Mrs. Wells how' do? I am very glad in-
deed to see you.  Walk in. I was beginning to
feel a little hurt, thinking you did not intend
to accept my invitation to come to spend the
afternoon.  This is--"Mary F"--Happy to
make your acquaintance.  George Q. Cannon?
Happy to meet you sir.  And this-- Ah,
Hannah T. King?  glad to see you, very glad.
Claim you as a sort of old acquaintance.  All
please be seated, and if you've brought your
knitting, ladies, --ah Mrs. Wells has taken out
her pencil, now I'll have to be careful what I
say. You ask why I take a seeming interest
in the Mormon question.  Well, one has but
to look around to see that there is some great
mistake made somewhere in regard to the mar-
riage relation as it exists now.  Mormonism
presents another side to the question.  I am
not ready to accept the side presented by you,
without close examination  of it in all its bear-
ings; but I am willing to examine, and be-
lieve there are many others to follow me, as
soon as I let down the bars of prejudice and
fear of ridicule.  Felix Adler in his lecture in
Cincinnati Jan. 28th said:  "This abandonment
of ancient theories has a foundation some where.  
Among the influences that are sapping old be-
liefs, is, first, Natural Science.  It is the recog-
nition by the masses of the fact of the existence
of inexorable law from countless ages--an un-
broken chain of causation." Now, as that is
true in a religious sense, so is it true socially.
There is an abandonment of ancient theories
and practices, too, socially.  Something is sapping
old beliefs and I say, 'tis well.
	Mr. Cannon, pardon me, but while you are
here I wish to ask, did you say, as the Gazette
reporter alleges that, "no woman can secure ex-
altation in heaven, unless she be united in mar-
riage to a Latter-day Saint of the Mormon
Church, on earth?"
	I could never believe that; really I think if
any man gets to heaven 'twill be through the
instrumentality of women.  But I never like to
talk on any subject if heaven, future rewards
and punishments are to be brought in.  I am
altogether of the earth, earthy.  My religion
is quickly summed up.  Having believed on
Jesus, confessed Him before men and been
baptized, I have the gospel promise of salva-
tion.  I love the purity of Christ's character
and try to imitate it.  My soul worships the
Creator of this beautiful earth, with its thou-
sand wonders, its singing birds, flowers, bright
skies, and stars, and clouds.  Truly, my soul
sayeth "The Heavens declare the glory of God,
the firmament sheweth his handiwork.  Day
unto day uttereth speech, night unto night
sheweth knowledge."  But of future rewards,
and punishments I concern not myself. Right,
is right wrong is wrong!  I try in all things,
small or great, to do right, and leave my case,
in the hands of a just judge;
	Therefore, just as soon as you convince me
that the Mormon Church practices are right,
that moment I yeild all my prejudices and be-
come one among you.
	Did you say, Mrs. Wells, that "plural mar-
riage does exalt women?  That by making the
sacrafice of her own feelings and giving up her
prejudices for the husband she loves, she en-
nobles herself?"  Well, that is true. Every
one is ennobled by sacrificing his or her own
wishes for the good of others.
	Yes, Mary F. It does seem as though it
were right that when a woman, weakened by
disease or child bearing, her mind entirely
taken up by the care of her family, loses all
inclination to be a wife in the full sense of the
word, she should be willing to act nobly, as did
Sarah of old, and allow another to take the
place she is no longer able to fill.
	Not going, are you, Mr. Cannon?  Good-after-
noon.  You were saying, Mrs. Wells, "When
a woman is no longer able to prepare the food
she gives that duty to a servant." When unable
by ill health or the demands society makes
upon her to prepare the clothing, necessary for
the family, she hires another to do it.  In early
days, to do these duties herself was proof of the
love she bore her husband--to neglect them
was inexcusable.  Do women love their hus-
bands and children less in these days?  No; it
is the abandoning of ancient theories and
practices.  Dr. Pierce says in his "People's
Common Sense Medical Adviser, "Since self
preservation is Nature's first law, the desire for
food is a most powerful instinct in all living
animals.  Not inferior to this law is that for
the prepetuation of race, and for this purpose
throughout the animal and vegetable kingdom,
we find the Biblical statement literally illus-
trated, "Male and female created He them."
	Now, no one would be foolish enough to say
that, because a wife did not prepare the food,
herself for her husband, he should go without;
and no husband will compel his wife to pre-
pare the food for him when she is unable to do
so. Nor will he go without.  But his hunger
and his wife's sickness does not privilege him
to go into his neighbor's house and sit down,
uninvited, to eat.  No man would think of do-
ing such a thing.  Custom regulates such
things.  But N. B. He does not abuse his
physical nature by depriving it of needed food.
	Well, you Mormon women are always ready
to give a reason for the faith you hold and I
must acknowledge you have beaten me this
afternoon.  But I've enjoyed your talk and
hope to spend another pleasant hour together
soon.
	Mrs. Martha Coray is dead.  I felt saddened
by the news for had hoped to meet her in her
own home on earth sometime, but will never
have the pleasure.  I believe she was a good
woman and would say:
		Why do we mourn the dead, departed
		From earth, and all the earthly strife,
		Though Death were a sleep eternal,
		'Twere rest from weary cares of Life.
		And when we know that joys immortal
		Are promised those who pass away,
		Death seems the quiet night, preceding
		The glorious morn of Eternal day.
					EMILY SCOTT. (Gentile.)


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
