WASATCH.

	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held in the Heber City Hall, Feb. 10, 1882.
Commencing at half past 10, o'clock A. M.
President Emma Brown, presiding. Present
on the stand were Bro. T. H. Giles; Bishop
Murdock, and Patriarch Hicken. After the
usual opening exercises, minutes of the previous
Conference were read and accepted. Pres.
Brown made some intrductory remarks felt
pleased to see so many of the sisters present.
The following wards were then represented.
East Heber by Mrs. Rasband, West Heber by
Mrs. Foreman, Midway by Mrs. Gurney, Cen-
ter by Mrs. Richardson, Charleston by Mrs.
Murdock, Wallsburg by Mrs. Clifton. The
reports were very satisfactory showing a desire
to improve and to carry out the counsel of
those placed over them. The Primaries were
then represented. Wallsburg by Jennie
Allred, Center by Mrs. Harvey, Heber City by
Mrs. Lee. The sisters then occupied the time
giving good counsel, said mothers should set a
good example before their daughters, they
should attend their meetings and be always
ready to respond to every call. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 o'clock P. M. Benediction by
Bro. Rasband.
	Afternoon session: Singing, prayer by Bro.
John Duke, verbal reports were then given by
the Pres. of the Y. L. M. I. A. They were
given in a very pleasing and instructive man-
ner. Sister Duke then spoke a short time, she
bore a faithful testimony that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God and that the Gospel was
revealed to him, and that we can by obedience
to all its laws and ordinances be brought back
into the presence of our Father. Said the
great men of the nation are determined to over-
throw this people. We are in the hands of the
Lord and so are they; if we are true to our re-
ligion they cannot harm us.


Bro. Hicken; said, "The Lord will take care
of His Saints and it is our business to be saints
in deed and truth, and no harm will come to
his people; urged the sisters to be faithful.
Blessed the Relief Societies with the spirit of
union and peace to comfort the sick and to
labor in love.  Bro. Rasband also gave good
counsel said the Relief Societies were a great
help to the Bishops.  Sister Brown made a few
closing remarks felt happy to have the privil-
ege of assembling with the sisters at our Con-
ference, we will be blessed if we are faithful in
all our duties.  Conference adjourned until
May 1882.  Benediction by John Jordan.
				MARY BRONSON, Sec'y.
