LESSON III (Third Week in March) JOHN MASEFIELD AND ALFRED EDWARD HOUSMAN When we think of authors who have written of the sea, James Fennimore Cooper and Sir Walter Scott of the past generations come quickly to mind. In this more modern time to think of a writer of the sea is to think at once of Joseph Conrad. A writer who is spoken of "as one of the two or three outstanding figures among contemporary English speaking poets is John Masefield, who was born in 1874, in the West of England. When a lad he served before the mast, did the drudgery and suffered the privations and the dangers of a sailor's life." Notwithstanding this suffering he had a passion for ships and the sea, as his poems known as Salt Water Ballads show. After he had knocked about a good deal as sailor and farm hand he took to writing as a profession and settled in Berkshire. In one respect he reminds us of Carl Sandburg, for he is the second example of a man spending his early life here, there and everywhere else, at this job and that, finally developing into a recognized poet. In 1896, he was living in America, in Yonkers, New York. There he first began to read poetry as he says, "with passion and system." He began with the great father of English poetry, Chaucer, and from him went to a study of Keats, Shelley, Milton and Shakespeare. Not only does Masefield love the sea, but he seems equally infatuated with English country districts which are usually conceded to be the most beautiful in the world. One of his poems entitled, "Sea Fever" begins: "I must go down to the sea again, to the lonely sea and sky; And all I ask is a tall ship and a star to steer her by, And the wheel's kick, and the wind's song, and the white sails shaking, And a grey mist on the sea's face, and a grey dawn breaking." And in his poem called "Prayer" his request is: "When the last sea is sailed, and the last field is reaped, Be good to me, O Lord, And let me pass in a night of sea, a night of storm and thunder." Tewksbury Road is a splendid example of his love for the English country district: It is good to be out on the road, and going one knows not where, Going through meadow and village, one knows not whither nor why,? Through the grey, light drift of the dust, in the keen cool rush of the air, Under the flying white clouds, and the broad blue lift of the sky; And to halt at the chattering brook, in the tall green fern at the brink Where the harebell grows, and the gorse, and the foxgloves purple and white, Where the shy-eyed delicate deer troop down to the brook to drink When the stars are mellow and large at the coming on of the night. O, to feel the beat of the rain, and the homely smell of the earth, Is a tune for the blood to jig to, a joy past power of words; And the blessed green comely meadows are all a-ripple with mirth At the noise of the lambs at play and the dear wild cry of the birds. Of course it would be a surprising thing if Masefield's heart did not go out to the laboring man, the man who carries the heavy burdens of life. His sympathy for the common man makes us think of Wordsworth and Burns of the past and of A. E. Housman and W. W. Gibson of the present day. One cannot read the lines of Masefield without appreciating that he is a master of rhythm. There are people who are never satisfied with poetry unless the rhythm of the verse is pronounced and musical. To persons of this turn of mind John Masefield is an ever present joy. Another poet of England who is very much enjoyed by many readers is Alfred Edward Housman, born in 1859, whose reputation for many years rested on one slender volume called A Shropshire Lad, published in 1896. Most of these poems were written the year before their publication. Housman seems to belong to a group of poets who, like Pope, "wrote in numbers for the numbers came," for he says during the year that he wrote the poems of A Shropshire Lad "he was visited by a continuous poetic excitement." In 1922 he published a second slender volume of even shorter poems known as Last Poems. While most 
 of the poems of this volume were written in 1922, a few were written between 1895 and 1910. Mr. Housman is a graduate of Oxford University and was for ten years a higher division clerk in His Majesty's Patent office in London. Since 1892 he has been a professor of Latin, first in University College, London, and later in Cambridge University. He is a distinguished classical scholar. He likes to write of the exquisite beauty of nature in Shropshire, the devotion of friends, the pains of lovers and the homesickness that one may experience in London if his home chances to be in a country district. As an example of his love for nature we quote a poem that might be called "Poplars:" Far in a western brookland That bred me long ago, The poplars stand and tremble By pools I used to know. There, in the windless nighttime, The wanderer, marvelling why, Halts on the bridge to hearken How soft the poplars sigh. He hears: long since forgotten In fields where I was known, Here I lie down in London And turn to rest alone. There, by the starlit fences, The wanderer halts and hears My soul that lingers sighing About the glimmering weirs. Housman writes some very delicate lyrics. One-and-Twenty is an example of his love poems: When I was one-and-twenty I heard a wise man say, "Give crowns and pounds and guineas But not your heart away; Give pearls away and rubies But keep your fancy free." But I was one-and-twenty, No use to talk to me. When I was one-and-twenty I heard him say again, "The heart out of the bosom Was never given in vain; 'Tis paid with sighs a plenty And sold for endless rue." And I am two-and-twenty, And oh, 'tis true, 'tis true. Any person who has ever lived in England has heard the chimes of bells on Sunday morning as they ring out Old Hundred and tunes of Christmas cheer, as well as many other familiar songs. Tennyson talks of hearing "four bells from four hamlets round" on Christmas morning. In "Bredon Hill" Housman gives a picture of life in an English country village where the ringing of Church bells is a familiar experience: In summertime on Bredon The bells they sound so clear; Round both the shires they ring them In steeples far and near, A happy noise to hear. Here of a Sunday morning My love and I would lie, And see the coloured counties, And hear the larks so high About us in the sky. The bells would ring to call her In valleys miles away: "Come all to Church, good people; Good people, come and pray." But here my love would stay. And I would turn and answer Among the springtime thyme, "Oh, peal upon our wedding, And we will hear the chime, And come to church in time." But when the snows at Christmas On Bredon top were strown, My love rose up so early And stole out unbeknown And went to Church alone. They tolled the one bell only, Groom there was none to see, The mourners followed after, And so to church went she, And would not wait for me. 
 The bells they sound on Bredon, And still the steeples hum, "Come all to church, good people,"? Oh, noisy bells, be dumb; I hear you, I will come. He has paid his tribute to his friends in the poem, "With Rue my Heart is Laden," and it is one of the most delicate tributes to friendship found anywhere in modern literature: With rue my heart is laden For golden friends I had, For many a rose-lipt maiden And many a lightfoot lad. By brooks too broad for leaping The lightfoot boys are laid; The rose-lipt girls are sleeping In fields where roses fade. Questions and Problems 1. Name some sea tale written by Cooper, or Scott or Conrad, or by all if you are able. 2. Read to the class Tennyson's "Crossing the Bar." Note the contrast between Tennyson's call for the sea at death and Masefield's call for the sea at death in his poem entitled, "Prayer." 3. Name the flowers mentioned by Masefield in "Tewksbury Road." 4. The English lark finds place once again in our literature lesson. Which of the American poets of our course referred to the English lark? 5. If you have in the class any English people familiar with English chimes have them tell the class something about them, naming some of the tunes they have heard played by the bells. 6. Point out the words Housman has used to describe his friends in the poem "With Rue my Heart is Laden." 7. Read some lines from both Masefield and Housman that give pleasure because of the beauty of the rhythm of the verse. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH