[Vol5 | October 1918 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Stake Presidents Frontispiece Our Biographical Number]

STAKE PRESIDENTS Top row, left to right: Mary M. Halls, Young Stake; Margaret W. Manning, Bear River Stake; Zina Larson Taggert, Woodruff Stake; Mary E. Freeman, Shelley Stake; Lily B. Gledhill, Sevier Stake. Middle row, left to right: Ann T. Walker, Rigby Stake; Susie M. Wilson, Teton Stake; Juliette Blackburn, Blackfoot Stake; Sarah M. McClellan, Idaho Stake. Bottom row, left to right: Sarah E. Cameron, Panguitch Stake; Cedaressa C. Shepherd, Beaver Stake; Pauline Pace, Carbon Stake; Matilda Flamm, Fremont Stake. 
 Our Biographical Number. In this number of the Magazine we are presenting to our readers the final groups of our stake presidents whose lives and labors deserve much at the hands of the Latter-day Saints. These are women who have achieved nobly and labored faithfully. It is to them and to their associate ward presidents that we owe much of the success of this glorious Relief Society work. The Magazine is glad to honor them and is honored in the presentation of their faces. They are pioneer women of the best type. They are mothers in Israel in very deed. They are exemplars before the people. Many of them, most of them, in fact, are mothers of large families who have carried on their house labors and ministered tenderly in their home duties, while attending as well to the labor and heavy responsibility which attaches to public office. These splendid presidents are what might well be described as self-made women and self-educated heroines. God bless them and preserve them all long to continue their active and useful careers. So popular and interesting have been the articles on Mothers in Israel and the
Unusual Mothers, that our office has received sketches and photographs of scores of good and noble women who would also like to present their life work as a testimonial in the pages of this Magazine. It has been deemed wise, however, by the Magazine committee of the General Board to restrict the publication of these interesting and valuable life-sketches. Therefore, with this number we have completed the series, giving the pictures all together, and we herewith present them lovingly and graciously to our many readers, hoping they will enjoy them as much as we have and will profit thereby, as such chronicles universally bless and benefit those who read them. STAKE PRESIDENTS Top row, left to right: Eliza B. Cook, St. Joseph Stake; Sarah B. Taylor, Bear Lake Stake; Georgina G. Ford, So. Davis Stake; Elizabeth Watt O'Brien, So. Davis Stake. Middle row, left to right: Sophia G. Luke, Wasatch Stake; Nellie M. Smith, Snowflake Stake; Julia E. A. Miller, Yellowstone Stake; Artimesia S. Seegmiller, Kanab Stake. Bottom row, left to right: Martha E. Roberts, Star Valley Stake; Sarah P. Stohl, Box Elder Stake; Hannah B. Christensen, So. Sanpete Stake; Elizabeth Snell, Big Horn Stake.