Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony (First Week in May)
Book of Mormon?The Last of the Nephites
Assignment
Read carefully the section called "The Book of Mormon" from beginning to end, till you reach the section known as "The Book of Ether." Then, skipping the "Book of Ether," which we shall take in the lesson following this, read all of the "Book of Moroni." It will be helpful also if you can, read what is said about Mormon and Moroni in the Dictionary of the Book of Mormon and in chapter 31 of the Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon.
Story of the Lesson
Here is where the Nephites come to the precipice and jump off. They have continued to go from bad to worse in the period after Christ, till they reach a point where they cannot see where their own higher interest lies, as has been the case so many times in the history of individuals and of peoples. Ammaron, who has the plates and the other sacred things, charges the ten-year-old Mormon with the duty of keeping the record of his people, because he is an observant youth. Meantime, he hides the records in a hill, where Mormon is to look for them when the time comes for him to begin setting down the historical facts of his own day. Mormon began this work fourteen years afterwards, when he was twenty-five years old. In 322 A. D. the last war broke out between the Lamanites and the Nephites. It continued, with occasional recesses, till after the year 400. At first the Nephites won. This was due partly to the fact that they were not yet "ripe in iniquity," as the historian picturesquely puts it, and partly to the fact that they were led by Mormon, who was made their leader at fifteen. But, as time went on, they lost out in the numerous battles. Meantime if the Lamanites were victorious, they drove the Nephites from their homes into the north countries; if the Nephites won in the battle, they returned to their homes. Occasionally Mormon, who was also a prophet, induced his people to turn to the Lord. Whereupon they would win victories, but presently they would lapse again into forgetfulness of God. Then they would lose. Finally Mormon became disgusted and refused to lead them into battle, till, as he saw their disasters, his heart would soften and he gave in. This is the way things went between the years 326 and 385, with a ten years' respite, during which both peoples were nursing their hatred of the enemy. Hundreds of thousands of troops were engaged in these battles. Toward the last days we read of horrors unspeakable. Whenever the Lamanites took any prisoners, they proceeded to kill the men, ravish the women, and maltreat the little children. Mormon writes to his son that the women and children were fed the very flesh of their slain husbands and fathers. Truly, as Mormon
LESSON DEPARTMENT
says, they were without civilization. In the end?that is, after the year 400?the Nephites disappear or are absorbed into the Lamanite population. Meanwhile, however, Mormon performed the task assigned him by Ammaron. He got the plates from the hill, set down on them the events of his own time, made an abridgment of the entire history of the Lehites, from the beginning to the end, and turned the records over to his son Moroni, with a set of small plates of Nephi, to be finished and then hidden away in the earth. Moroni also had been a Nephite military leader. He is not the same Moroni that we read of some lessons ago, who was a contemporary of Amalickiah. This Moroni is the one who delivered the plates of the Book of Mormon to the prophet Joseph Smith. After being given the record by his father, he adds some of the happenings of his own day, translates and abridges the record of the Jaredites, and then hides away the precious things in the hill Cumorah, where they remain undisturbed for about fourteen hundred years.
Outline
I. The record of Mormon.
His war record.
His struggles with the Nephites for righteousness.
His leadership of the army against the Lamanites.
His work on the history of his people. (1) As historian of his times. (2) As abridger of past records.
His character.
II. The work of Moroni. 1. Who Moroni was. 2. His work on the plates. 3. His task of translator.
177
4. His own additions to the record. 
5. His appearance to Joseph Smith. 
Notes
The Fall of Nations: The Nephite nation came to an end after it had lived for a thousand years. It was not the first nation, however, to do that, nor the last. Babylon Chaldea, Nineveh, Israel, Greece, Rome?these, too, have gone, leaving only their names and the lesson of their downfall. Why does a nation die? A nation does not come to an end for the same reason that an individual does. An individual dies because his body gives out?the respiratory system fails, or the food channels refuse to function, or the circulatory ducts cease to work. The trouble is generally physical. Sometimes, however, he leads too fast a life, as we say of one who dissipates; and that also reacts on the body. Often we find people dying from sheer old age. But there is no such reason why a nation's life cannot go on forever. A nation is merely an association of individuals, a group of people bound together by invisible ties. Kingdoms are snuffed out at times when the ruler becomes oppressive and tyrannical, or just merely weak. Democracies die because the majority of the people want the wrong things. That is what the good King Mosiah tells us in the Book of Mormon. There are certain laws of perpetuity for governments of every sort, and if they do not adhere to these laws they go down. In the last analysis, however, the decision as to whether a nation shall live or die, rests with the individual members of that nation. One historian attributes the fall of the Roman empire to the fact that every-
178
body wanted to live in a city; another, to the general immorality that prevailed at its downfall. Individual sins brought on the final scenes in the Jewish nation. And that is probably why the Nephite people came to their end. A chain is no stronger than its weakest link. Whenever the individual members of any nation become so corrupt as to give a general tone to the thinking and the deeds of the nation, then the end is in sight. That is why the more intelligent men and women in our own nation are becoming alarmed at the corruption of the courts in New York City, the gangster's power in Chicago, and the almost universal disrespect for law in the United States.
Mormon: The last of the prophet-generals among the Nephites is one of the most interesting characters in the Book of Mormon. In his long life of perhaps seventy-eight years he was an active leader among his people. Born in the year 311 A. D., he seems to have attained his maturity, both physically and mentally, at a very early age. At ten his qualities attracted the attention of the historian Ammaron, who placed in his keeping the Nephite records. At fifteen he was asked to take command of the entire Nephite army?a heavy responsibility in times like this. There must, therefore, have been some extraordinary qualities about this man. One of these was his physical stature. As already stated, he matured in body very early. And then he was a man of strong, decided convictions as to the religious life. For, say what you will, to believe with all your heart in anything as fundamental as religion at once sets you apart in any society or age. Mormon was a firm believer in Jesus Christ and his power to save. Since this sort of thing appears to
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
have been rare in his time, he therefore stood out. Also he was full of courage. Not the courage merely that enables one to face the enemy in battle, but the rarer courage that inspires one to reprimand a whole people, including the army, when they leave the path of duty and righteousness. And Mormon did that time and again. "Behold," he says to his son concerning the people, "I am laboring with them continually; and when I speak the word of God with sharpness they tremble and anger against me; and when I use no sharpness they harden their heart's against it. Wherefore, J fear lest the Spirit of the Lord hath ceased to strive with them." But Mormon was more than a prophet and military man. He was also an historian. And he carried on his literary tasks alongside his other duties. To make an abridgment of the record of a people for a thousand years is no easy job, even when you have nothing else to do, especially, one would imagine, as all the writing had to be engraved on gold plates. It may well be that Mormon had to make even the plates on which he wrote the history. 3. Moroni: A worthy son of a worthy sire, is what one thinks on approaching the life of (Moroni. In all three respects Moroni was the son of his father. He was a military man, a prophet, and an historian. During the life-time of his father, Moroni had command of a division of the army, and appears to have been very efficient in that capacity. That he was a prophet, not in the lesser sense of one who predicts but of one who is a seer, is evident from the fact that he translated the Book of Ether, a Jaredite record in a foreign language LESSON DEPARTMENT . Most probably the means he used in its translation was the urim and thummim, or interpreters. And then he finished the record on the plates which his father had given him, adding some letters from his father and some of the forms practiced by the church of his times. Moroni, furthermore, is the connecting link between his time and Joseph Smith's. He buried the plates and the other precious things in Cumorah, and then, after the lapse of fourteen hundred years, uncovered them to the gaze of the prophet of the nineteenth century. In the meantime, however, he had died?just how we are not, of course, informed?and was raised from the dead, so that he appeared 'ing our own nation? 179 to Joseph Smith in his resurrected form. It was a great mission that Moroni performed. Questions 1. Tell in brief the story of the years during which the Nephite nation was disappearing. 2. Compare the character and personality of Mormon with those of the first Nephi in as many respects as you can. 3. Do you see any evidences of decay'in the nations of the earth today? If so, what are they? Is there any cause for alarm respectIf so, point them out. What must the people of our country do in order to preserve our principles of government? Work and Business (Second Week in May.) TEACHER'S Topic For APRIL (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in May.) Our RESPONSIBILITY TO FAMILY AND NEIGHBORS I. There is a duty in every Latterday Saint home that rests almost entirely upon the mother and that duty is teaching the children to love and cherish every ordinance of the Gospel. A. Blessing the baby should be made a real event to all members of the household. Tell of Hannah and other mothers in Ancient Israel, looking upon this ordinance as very important. B. Children should be told of the importance of Baptism years before they are candidates for baptism; and also of confirmation. C. Training in the Priesthood quorums and especially the privilege of passing the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper should be held high in the estimation of boys participating. Many others could be named but space will not permit. II. Our duty to our friends. There are a number of obligations we owe to our neighbors that we must not overlook. A. Where there are parents in any given neighborhood striving to send their children to Sunday School regularly and on time, every parent in that locality 180 should silently cooperate to have their children do the same. This applies to day school also. L. If ome are endeavoring to abstain from Sunday amusements, all parents should do team work along that line. C. The curfew law should receive the united support of all. D. Quarantine Regulations; e. Respect for property, in fact, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE everything that makes for a better community standard should be taught and enforced. Boys and girls who live under regulations of this type make better citizens than those who have been denied this wholesome training. The value of cooperation of parents for community welfare cannot be over-estimated. Try it. Literature (Third Week in May) Part II On tHe Suort Story In FRANCE Suggested Stories "The Substitute," by Francois Coppe. "Our Lady's Juggler," by Anatole France. The Authors Francois Coppe Francois Coppe was a man who prospered in life, both in a material and spiritual way. Success came to him while he was still young, and it continued with him the rest of his life. With it, however, he managed to retain much of his simplicity and his sense of spiritual values. He was born in Paris in 1842, where he spent the greater part of his life. Coppe's father was a very minor official in the Ministry of War and his mother, to eke out her husband's earnings, kept books for a neighboring tradesman. While Coppe was still very young and attending school, his father died. Now the boy had to earn his own living in addition to helping support his mother and sister. One of his first appointments was that of a very junior helper in the War Office. If he had not been endowed with some genius, his record might have been as humble as that of his father's. The boy wrote verses in secret, and once he became so discouraged that he threw them all into the fire and was for leaving poetry to her own devices. But the poet in him refused to die and some time later that man of French letters, Catulle Mendes. Became interested in Coppe and helped the young man to place his poems. The first one to bring Coppe any great popularity was "Le Reliquaire," published in 1866. Soon his verses were known all over France and schoolboys were declaiming them. By this time Coppe seemed definitely to have found his subject material. He was interested in the lives of the resigned and voiceless poor. He was naturally sentimental, and often his pathos was overdrawn, but his observations are true and his form of writing beautiful and precise. Coppe, like every other writer, wished to produce a drama. In 1869 he wrote "La Passant" in which Sarah Bernhardt made her first real success. Heartened by the LESSON DEPARTMENT reception of his drama in verse, Coppe wrote a number of epic plays, using French, British, and Italian history for his subjects. After a few years, however, he gave most of his attention to prose. His contributions were found in many of the periodicals of his day. He continued to interpret with some humor, and with real understanding the prosaic facts of life. Somberness rather than humor, is more apt to be the prevailing tone of his stories, but his details are never sordid. Before he had really begun to grow old his literary eminence was recognized, and in 1876 he was made a member of the Legion of Honor and in 1884 elected to the Academy. He was also a sincere convert to the Catholic church during the later years of his life. Many of the critics of his time asserted that not one of his lines would outlive him, but Coppe's stories are already listed among the classics. He died in 1908. Anatole France (Anatole Thibault) Anatole France must be included in the lessons on the short story in Irance. For the last twenty-five years of his life he was the recognized leader of French letters and enjoyed a world wide fame. It is almost impossible to write of him briefly because of his many-sided nature. He produced some fifty volumes, including drama, criticism, history, poetry, novels, short stories, and philosophical reflections, and there was an unbelievably wide range of thought in each of his fields of writing. And Anatole France is as varied as his writings. His dates are from 1844 to 1924, and 'Paris was his home for a good many of those years. In his youth he learned much of books from his father's shop and from the clerical 181. College, where he also acquired a hatred of monks. (He does not disclose this hatred, however, in his story of "Our Lady's Juggler.'') Like most writers he was born poor. "Poverty," he wrote, "taught me the true value of books useful to life." When Anatole was very young he began to write. Indeed his masterpiece, "Sylvestre Bonnard," one of the most beautiful stories in the world, was produced when he was thirty-seven, and it is quite prcbable that he wrote it several years earlier. By 1894 he was elected to the Academy, an honor that he held lightly. Throughout all of Anatole France's works there is a subtle intelligence. He was rightly called one of the most intelligent men of his day. His intelligence was accompanied by a great curiosity, a thirst for knowedge. But he was a dilettante, eager to know for the sake of knowing, without practically applying his knowledge. Yet, for all of his apparent laziness, he was a voluminous writer. Much of it would never have been done had it not been for a certain woman who forcibly encouraged him to write. Art with him was not art for art's sake. France believed that the writer should throw himself into the strife of the political and industrial world. In 1894, when Captain Dreyfus was wrongly accused of treason so that guilty superiors could be protected, Anatole France was one of the few men who fought for Dreyfus. For years he threw himself into the Dreyfus affair, and because the church and army were so closely connected with it, he bitterly attacked both of them. But in 1914 at the age of seventy, he asked to be allowed to serve his country as a private. Tor the most part, however, his life was what he said of it: "I have 182 always been inclined to take life as a spectacle." France believed that existence would be intolerable if one did not dream. Several of his most charming books are concerned with the dreams of the boy, Jacques Anatole. Along with his dreams he was sensual. The great sin, he once declared, was to deprive one's self of pleasure. But there was a redeeming side to his nature. _He had a genuine kindness and sympathy, and did much to help the poor and oppressed, At forty-four he said: "I am sure of a very few things in the world." At seventy-five: "I should be tempted to put very large question marks after all that I write, all that 'I say, and all that I think." But now comes another contradiction in his nature. It was perhaps of himself that he 'was thinking when he wrote: 'Those who thought him irresolute and fickle had not taken the trouble to observe his world of ideas." Few people have loved beauty more than Anatole France. In sheer beauty and charm of style he has few superiors or even peers. On the other hand he refused to take the trouble to compose. Events in his writings are rarely well coordinated, and the outcome of the plot is rarely the chief point of interest. Sometimes, indeed, there is no outcome. It is for the subtleness of thought and the charm of his expression that he is read. "Our Lady's Juggler,' however, is one of his better coordinated stories. Unlike most other French stories there is little in the forepart to indicate what the end will be. Other writers would have been apt to finish the story with the Virgin's act, but France rambles on a few lines further. Throughout the story he diffuses his love of beauty. His RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE descriptions of the monk's worship of the Virgin are sheer delight to read, and even the humble Barnabas is touched with beauty. If the class members are not acquainted with Anatole 'France it is best to approach him guardedly. Many of his works are only for a certain type of reader, but the "Crime of Sylvestre Bonnard," the story of an old man, is a delightful book for any one to read. Then there is a collection of short stories called "Bluebeard and Other Tales," whose skepticism most people will enjoy. The Substitute Coppe's "The Substitute" presents the pitiful struggle of a man to find some way of living in honor. It is not so much an indictment against the world that allowed Jean Francois Leturc to be beaten in the end, or even to have to make the struggle, as it is an exposition of one man's soul. The story, in many ways, follows the true French form. It has only the two major characters, though the underworld of |Paris, the men of the prisons and of the galleys, and the humble working men of the city, make up its background. And its single impression is unmistakable. Its major character, Jean Francois Leturc, was born into poverty and vice, but he was blessed with a sweetness of disposition and a desire to live in harmony with people. Had he been privileged with a normal life?home, parents, friends, security, and education, he would no doubt have grown into an amiable, hard-working man, not so intelligent that he would have escaped being imposed upon. But life chose that he should be thrown on the streets to sing a refrain with a drunken failure. It is at the turning point of Jean's LESSON DEPARTMENT life, when he sees the young priest ' standing in his schoolroom, that many critics would say that Coppe's pathos was overdrawn. But life occasionally 'furnishes examples of that kind of pathos. 'At any rate the sentiment that carried Jean away from his old -ways was strong enough to change his whole mode of thought and doing. Jean needed just one more thing to complete his life. He found a friend?not a woman, for that kind of life had been too long denied him ?but a man whom he could love. The new friend was much younger than Jean, a peasant named Savinien who was new in Paris. In him Jean found piety and an untarnished background, the things he so longed for in his new life. But 'Savinien had a weakness for women, which is perhaps the most disastrous of all weaknesses. To obtain money for some woman he stole money. And the French police are not hesitant about thieves. It was then that Jean was forced to make his decision. He could choose either security or the sight of the one person he loved being started on the dark path of crime from which there is little escape. He did not wait long, and he made but one request of Savinien. Coppe pictures Jean's sense of futility when the feels that his failure to protect Savinien is due to his bad habits of the old life. On the other hand there is no futility in Jean's deed. It was a thing so splendid that it entirely redeems him and it may save the younger and weaker man for a life of honor. Questions What is the significance of the title? Why could not this title be used for an American story of the same subject? 183 What things in the story give it a strictly Parisian flavor? What is the single impression of the story? What is the irony in the last line? Show the importance of this last line to the whole story. Point out parts in the story that might be called overly sentimental. In what ways does Savinien show his weakness? Why was Jean so drawn to Savinien? Our Lady's Juggler Our Lady's Juggler is a beautiful story both in subject matter and in style. It shows one of the contradictions in Anatole France's life that he who seemed to hate the church and professed no belief in God, could write so lovingly of the medieval life of the monks. The story concerns itself with a poor juggler who, "like most of those who exist by their accomplishments, had a hard time making a living." Barnabas, the juggler, was a simple man, enjoying the warmth of summer and 'enduring the bitter discomforts of (winter because he knew the warmth would come again. Juggling was "the finest calling in the world if he could but eat every day" until he learned of the ways of the priests whose lives were perpetual hymns to God. That to him seemed better than juggling. So he became a monk and his days were pleasant until he discovered that while all the other priests exercised some special talent in their worship of the Virgin, he had none. He was not jealous of the talent of Brother 'Maurice who could copy on parchment or Brother Alexandre who decorated the parchment with delicate miniatures of holy things, nor of Brother Marbode who cut images in stone. No, he felt badly because the Virgin must think him poor who could do none of these 184 wonderful things. But there are compensations and France gives Barnabas a whimsical compensation. He declares that one's talents, however lowly and mean they are, if they are executed in love and in the best manner possible, are as acceptable as those of the highest. And he has the Virgin step down from her pedestal to prove his contention. This story should be read slowly to enjoy France's subtle wit and his mellowed observations on life. Questions What things kept [Barnabas from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE enjoying his jjuggler's life to the utmost? What was the Virgin Cult of the middle ages? What other things in this story place it in the middle ages? Why did Barnabas feel that he was stupid and ignorant? Characterize Barnabas briefly. What was the first reaction of the brothers when they learned what Barnabas was doing? Natural reaction? How did the Virgin rebuke them? Social Service (Fourth Week in May) PERSONALITY STUDY: Based on Overstreet's "Influencing Human Behavior," "Ts it scientific?' "Has it been established experimentally?" The standard for judging things expressed by these questions seems to have come to dominate if not also to domineer in our present civilization. The writer is inclined to pity certain musicians, painters, religionists, etc., who constantly talk as though the interests they represent would be greatly enhanced if they could persuade others that music, or painting; or religion, has not merely a scientific aspect, but that each of these is in reality a science. As though something that could be proved experimentally or found to satisfy the standards of science were more important or more to be appreciated by us than a thing of beauty or one of the great arts! Our last lesson was designed to help us appreciate some of the methods of science. This lesson has much the same general purpose. The above paragraph should not be THE CREATIVE MIND pages 217-255 construed as one intended to disparage the technique of scientific experimentation. The point is that science is held in such very high regard today even by non-scientists that we need especially to be prepared to distinguish between the genuine article, so to speak, and the many counterfeits which are bound under the circumstances to show up on every hand. Remembering that our appreciation of science need not carry with it a disparagement of art, let us learn even more about how the scientific spirit may contribute substantially to social progress. The very popularity of science is perhaps its greatest present handicaps The tendency to accept mere verbal parroting of scientific phrases as the equivalent of a genuine understanding of science; the fact that almost anyone can manipulate such physical and mechanical benefits of science as the automobile, the radio, and the telephone; as well LESSON DEPARTMENT as the deliberate pseudo-scientific practices of fakers in medicine, geology, psychology, etc., all tend to introduce confusion. Even the supposed sources of reliable training in the technique of scientific experimentation have become 'contaminated. Mr. Overstreet quite rightly is led to deplore the great amount of "authoritarian" stuff and mere "cook-book" science which passes for real science in our school laboratories. Students are made to go through the motions of experimenting without ever actually doing any real experimenting. The shadow is accepted in lieu of the substance. Is it any wonder that in this socalled scientific age we have no widespread "experimental habit of mind?" The spirit of fearless and independent adventure coupled with a sufficiently disciplined sense of responsibility is indeed rare. Especially is this so when it is proposed to extend the methods of scientific research beyond the field of the physical and mechanical into the realm of the emerging social sciences. We need to take active steps to substitute for the older type of "authoritarian training' with its consequent "passively acceptive" system of habits, a kind of training calculated to develop habits that are inquisitive, experimental, and creative. We need to clarify our notions as to what constitutes originality in the best sense of the word and then try to find out if and how this valuable trait may be encouraged. The psychologist, Thorndike, has given an excellent discussion of the nature and development of initiative and originality. In this paragraph we can do little better than attempt to give a condensed version of part of his very helpful paper. Self185 reliance, initiative and originality are not capricious general faculties of the mind. They are not like little slaves which might be made to respond to commands and admonitions. They are not to be perfected by indiscriminate practice for they represent, perhaps, a good many rather specialized habits. It is certain that in a democracy we have little use for a general, diffuse, busybody type of initiative or for a never conforming, mad-house type of originality. "Effective independence, initiative and originality are not the negations of dependence, imitation, and fixed habits. * * * A good definition of intellectual independence is 'reasoned dependence. The truly initiating mind does not imitate less, but more. * * It is reasoned imitation; the zeal to take the profitable risk, the hopeful leap in the dark.' Originality in a very worthy sense of the term implies considerable industry at routine tasks and aggressive willingness to learn what otheis may have already contributed on the matter in question. It implies "strength in doing work that is new or doing it in new ways, an attitude of hoping to change knowledge or practice for the better, an organization of habits that causes their progressive modification. The person who is creative or original is successful in making significant improvements in already existing material. Perhaps the need is for material to be extended and elaborated, or to be useful it may need something like condensation and reorganization, or again it may need to be vitalized or put into more dynamic form in some way. In each case the creative mind may furnish us with a thing not wholly "new under the sun," but yet changed significantly for the better by the 186 touch of his personality. It is the product of his unique past experience, his yearning to be of service to his fellows, and of his intense and often long-continued effort. It comes to be recognized as an important contribution to human welfare and is accordingly conserved by society and is later used as a basis for continued improvement by other creative minds. There are many people who believe that we must simply let things take their natural course?some of them even assert that the natural course of events is the best guide as to what is right. They are the advocates of the now discredited laissez faire doctrine in politics or the so-called theory that nature is right, formerly believed by some psychologists, sociologists, and educators. They are the counterfeit optimists who seem to hold to the theory of automatic social progress. They are the well-meaning people who think that God is going to force Heaven or the Millennium upon us independent of what we may do or not do in relation to achieving these conditions. We must admit that many of these people are at times quite inconsistent. For example, they curb the natural appetite for sweets, they patronize barbers, they wear eye-glasses, they punish bullies, they attend schools, they insist on promptness, they obey traffic signals, etc., etc. But what is most important just now is the fact that as a class they obstruct social progress. They do not encourage or initiate programs to bring about social betterment. They do not appreciate the need of social experimentation for with them whatever is, is right. Ina pinch they expect a sort of bell-hop god to come at their bidding and get them out of their difficulties. As for us, we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE should be genuine optimists?openminded experimentors, and industrious workers?willing to do our own "dirty work" and all other work that needs to be done. We should cultivate inquiring minds? minds accustomed to doubt the finality of many of our ways of doing things. We should often take matters into our own hands and become "anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of (our) own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness." We seem to need someone. Or something to keep us at our best. We need vigorous challenges or we become lazy and indifferent. It is an old saying that necessity is the mother of invention. -Overstreet says that "conflict is our gadfly" to keep us from mental "slumping." Heraclitus is quoted as even saying that "'war is the Father of all things." And one of our recent writers seems to say that practically all of the characteristic ideals, sentiments, and institutions of Mormonism have simply grown out of 'Sts conflicts, its struggles, its crises." We may not agree with all of these statements. Certain it is that mere conflict is not to be sought after, for in itself it is neither good nor bad. There no doubt have been many fruitless industrial conflicts, race conflicts, religious conflicts, family feuds, etc. Overstreet suggests that conflict can only be considered intelligent and "civilizing when it involves an effort (1) to understand the opposing factor; and (2) to invent a means whereby the opposition is succeeded by fruitful cooperation." In relation to the topic of our lesson we can hardly over-emphasize the importance of meeting our necessary conflicts in ways that make for progress. Whenever possible we should capitalize our handicaps LESSON DEPARTMENT, and treat our social conflicts as opportunities for the exercise of the creative mind, and the result should be an enlarged group consciousness and an increase of general good will. Strangely enough we sometimes deliberately create senseless conflicts and even offer prizes to induce our young folks to engage in them. The reference is to school debating. And why call these scantily attended public combats senseless? Because they have little better justification than mere custom. These "verbal orgies" were started at a time when people thought that they afforded valuable general mental discipline and before we had learned to appreciate very generally that problems are not settled by flowery oratory nor the marshalling of mere statistics or high sounding opinions. The whole process has even been declared to be immoral and subversive to straight thinking because it necessarily involves a great deal of insincere rationalization. It tends to substitute sophistry for the scientific ways of finding things out. Are these lessons helping us to do less of the sincere blundering that was mentioned in the Preface of our text? Are we gradually becoming more genuinely progressive and more skilled in what our author calls the "major art of life?" A Few Possible Problems for Discussion 1. Do you agree with the first sentence on page 217 of our text? Support your answer with real evidence if possible. 2. Why is the average housewife so notoriously non-progressive in relation to labor-saving devices in the home? Answer this question carefully without indulging in mere wise-cracks, 3. In science it is evidence that 187 counts?not mere authority in the usual sense of the word. Much of the medieval notion of authority has -come down to us today. Wr ought to obey, even blindly, for "the king can do no wrong," is something like this old idea. Science, democracy, and true religion have made some headway in establishing a newer conception. It is that one has authority to the extent that one has superior insight and sincere willingness to serve. It is not a matter of arbitrarily established prestige as in an aristocracy, but rather a democratic "leadership based upon special knowledge of the facts and flowering toward control of these facts for human ends. * '* * Every man leads where his knowledge justifies and follows where his ignorance compels." Discuss these two notions of authority in relation to the paragraph in Overstreet which begins near the bottom of page 225 and also the first paragraph on page 226. 4, Do you know of a better challenge to worthwhile individual initiative than that given in Doc. And Cov. 58:26-29, or a more sobering conception of authority than that expressed in Doc. And Cov. 121:3444? What appeals to you especially in each of these passages? 5. Explain clearly what you understand by originality in the Dest sense of the word. Read and report briefly on the article "What is Invention?" in The Literary Digest for January 10, 1931. It would be easy to prove that during the first third of the last century there was considerable propaganda in America, based upon the findings of eminent physicians quite in line with the teachings of the Word of Wisdom as to the advisability of abstaining from wine, strong drink, tobacco, tea, coffee, the excessive eating of meat, etc. Might not the 188 Word of Wisdom be considered as highly original, nevertheless? What original elements, if any, can you point out that would not appear lidiculous to informed people? What do you understand by the term "plagiarism?" 6. Criticize the notion that nature is unreservedly bad. That what is natural is right. What things must we do besides pray that God's "will may be done on earth as it is in Heaven?" Try to be quite specific. Do any of these things imply that some natural tendencies need to be improved? 7. What are the really important things you learned from studying pages 244-245 of the text, Read to the class the one sentence on each page which you regard as most significant. 8. Relate an instance or two within your own observation illustrating how "people tend to be down on things that they are not up on." Can you also tell of a conflict that was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE settled intelligently in ways similar to those our author suggests as being effective and proper? 9, Discuss as fully as you can the first paragraph on page 253 of our text. Refer to what is said on rationalization in the lesson for last month. What do you think of Overstreet's plan for what he calls "constructive debate?" 10. Discuss the last paragraph on page 254 of the text, especially the part quoted from Woodrow Wilson. What does this paragraph suggest as to good missionary technique? A successful missionary reports that he makes it a special point in his first conversations with an investigator to establish a basis for friendship and to emphasize important gospel matters upon which they can both substantially agree. Points of possible difference are reserved for later conversations. He says to do otherwise is to make yourself into a sort of religious porcupine. What are the possible advantages and disadvantages of his method?
