The Relief Society Magazine - March 1968, Vol. 55, No. 3

Compass for a Child Peggy Tangren What will you remember when the roads you take Narrow and dead-end against your mind? Memory will have mileposts leading back To these high fields Where now you run in meadow rue Rocked by wind, and reach, Knowing some day you will be Tall enough to part a cloud And gather down an armful of clear sky. Where visions fade in fog and then are lost, In crowded places sharp with hurting sound, You will know the stillness of deep water, For you were born of tranquil places, Of mountain tops cleaving lanes of air. You have followed corridors of light Through darkened forests, And been nurtured on summer's sweetest yield. This will be your compass when you go Your magic shield.

The Cover: Blossoms at Appomattox Courthouse, Virginia Transparency by Claire W. Noall Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Needle Mountains, Near Molas Lake, Colorado Photograph by Don Knight

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

I am delighted to belong to an American Branch. This gives me an opportunity to improve myself in the English language. I admire very much the sisters in Relief Society. Indeed, they have the Spirit of the Lord, and they also have very much initiative. I am grateful to The Relief Society Magazine for the joy I feel in increasing my knowledge of the gospel. I like to share the Magazine with my husband, because it gives us the opportunity to have a beautiful and instructive discussion, and I also like to share the Magazine with my neighbors.

Fernanda G. Chilicky Nogales, Arizona

May I express my thanks to you for the high standard of art The Relief Society Magazine maintains. The covers are beautiful, uplifting, and edifying, and the drawings are ideal I say ideal, for they are beautiful and well done, and the women are always modest. May the Lord bless you for maintaining the Lord's standards. I can, with confidence, let our children read this Magazine.

Mrs. J. Vance Miller Pingree, Idaho

Although I am a college graduate, I had never learned to appreciate poetry, until the combination of the Out of the Best Books series, these last few years, plus the Magazine, with its many poems each month, and my wonderful cultural refinement class leader, Violet Larsen, have finally helped me to love and understand poetry.

Helen F. Cheney Downey, California

I think the December Magazine is superb, with its lovely Madonna cover, and so many beautifully arranged homes in memory of the birth of our Savior. I liked the Christie Lund Coles poem "Christmas Is the Same" so much. I knew Christie when I lived in Springville and belonged to the League of Utah Writers. I also liked especially well the story "The Christmas Lamb" by Elaine M. Murray. I used it in my Sunday School class last Sunday.

Lucy W. B. Jones Salt Lake City, Utah

I enjoy the Magazine so very much. It was given me on my birthday by my parents Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Willardson of Salt Lake City, Utah the most wonderful parents in the world.

Mrs. Jewel Carter West Covina, California

What a beautiful New Year's message from our general presidency in the January Magazine. It is so meaningful to the Relief Society sisters on the Ricks College campus. These are the things we will strive for in the New Year. We love and appreciate our wonderful Relief Society Magazine.

Lisle L. Andrus President, Ricks College Stake Relief Society Rexburg, Idaho

162

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.