[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | July | Issue: 3 | Title: M. PARKINSON. | Author: Unknown]

					M. PARKINSON.

[Column 2]
	BIG COTTONWOOD WARD, NEFF'S
				DISTRICT, June 17th, 1875
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Being a constant reader of your valuable
paper, and very much interested in the re-
ports from the many different societies, both
Relief and Retrenchment, I will venture
or presume to send you a brief re-
port of our Society.  It was organized
April 3rd, 1875 by Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs.
Zina D. Young, and Mrs. Presinda Kinball,
with the sanction of our Bishop W. E.
Young. Mrs. E. Boice was chosen Presi-
and six counselors were chosen by her and
unanimously voted in.
	It was considered best by our Bishop to
have Branch Societies as the Ward is very
extensive, the Counselors to preside in the
different districts where they reside, all to
meet monthly at the Ward House.
	At a meeting called by our President Mrs.
Boice, the Bishop being present, Mrs. Liz-
zie Neff was appointed to preside, Mrs. F.
M. Neff Secretary, and Mrs. B. M. Moses,
Treasurer.  We have most excellent meet-
ings, among our best speakers may be men-
tioned Mrs. E. Howard, Mrs. S. Harper,
Mrs. E. Boice, Mrs. H. Brinton  and many
others too numerous to mention, all seem
actuated by a good spirit and a desire for
the welfare of Zion, all see the necessity of
being awake, the great need of each one
taking part in the great work of Retrench-
ment, of refining and perfecting ourselves.
Now that we have an opportunity of repre-
senting ourselves through the medium of
your paper, it seems almost a work de-
manded of us to awake, arise! put on the ar-
mour of wisdom, and make bold to declare
to the world the truth of the mission of
Joseph Smith and his successor Brigham
Young; to advocate the principles of eter-
nal truth, as revealed by them for our salva-
tion and exaltation, the great and glorious
principles of Celestial Marriage, especially,
when we consider how much has been said
against this, and its practice in Utah; and
concerning the condition of woman here;
she is compared with a slave, or represented
to be in abject slavery.
	We know the time has come when wo-
man should express her views, advocate
true and correct principles, and stand up in
her own defense. It is much better to rep-
resent ourselves than to be represented by
others.  There is no place in the world that
woman has better opportunities to improve,
than in Utah; certainly she has perfect free-
dom of speech and press.
	Wishing you success, I am most respect-
fully yours,
			MRS. F.  NEFF, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TURKISH ECCENTRICITIES.—Everything
among the Turks is in contrast with our ex-
periences. The men wear the gay colors and
embroidery, and the women the close veil
and sombre hues. The women wear trou-
sers, and the men a nether garment very
much like a petticoat. Men and not wo-
men do all the work of the household. Mar-
riages are solemnized without the presence
of the parties most concerned, and before
they have even seen each other. A money
value is set upon the bride by her parents,
and agreed to by the parents of the bride-
groom, upon the payment of which the
husband has the right at any time after mar-
riage to return the wife to her friends.
Recently, a daughter of the Grand Vizier
was married and her money value was fixed
at the odd but quite reasonable figure, con-
sidering her social position, of five hundred
add one pounds sterling.


