In View of Sinai By Dr. Franklin S. Harris, President of Brigham Young University As I write this I am looking at Mount Sinai which rears its head 8,593 feet above sea level. It is thirty-seven miles away so I am not able to tell very much about the composition of its rock. I am sailing north, up the Red Sea or more exactly the Gulf of Suez, because if you look at your map you will see that, at the upper end, the Red Sea divides into the Gulf of Suez on the west, and the Gulf of Akaba, on the east. The former runs north and west for about one hundred and fifty miles whereas the latter runs northeast about a hundred miles. It is in the land between'these two that the children of Israel are supposed to have done most of their wandering. It has taken us longer to go up the Red Sea by boat than it takes to go by train from New York to San Francisco, The Red Sea from the Strait of Bab-el/Mandeb to the Gulf of Suez is about 1,300 miles and it has a maximum width of about 200 miles. Wherever land has been seen along the way it has seemed. To be tremendously dry—drier than anything I have ever seen except a few small places in Northern Mexico. This morning, as we came into the Gulf of Suez, the Sinaitic range came into view. It extends northwest and southeast parallel ' with the shore of the gulf, although the mountains proper, are a few miles inland. Mount Sinai itself, is not in the front range and cannot, therefore, be seen all the way. Only a few minutes ago it came into view as we looked up a canyon. Ina few minutes more it will be hidden by the mountains in front of it. In general outline the Sinaitic range is not unlike the Wasatch range between Nephi and Brigham City, except that here on the borders of the Red Sea the mountains are much more barren than any I have seen in America. The passengers of the boat have been studying the mountains on both sides of the gulf all day with powerful glasses and it is only rarely that we have been able to see a tree or anything green. It may be that the range at the rear supports more vegetation. Extending from the waters edge, for five or ten miles, and rising probably one thousand feet in this distance, is a sandy slope which seems to be entirely devoid of vegetation. It is evidently an old shore line for there is every evidence of an uplift all through this region during late geologic time, resulting in a 
 very considerable shore. In some islands in the gulf, these beach marks show very clearly and there are evidences of levels where the water remained at the same level for considrable time, something like the bench marks of our own Lake Bonneville. On the Egypt side of the gulf there is much less uniformity in the structure of the mountains. Looking off to the southwest there is a high range with jagged peaks which very much resemble-the saw tooth range in Idaho. Directly to the west are lower hills made up of stratified material which is eroded, much like the bad lands of eastern Utah.; This whole region in spite of its extreme aridity is full of interest which is tied up with beginnings of human history. To the west, in Egypt, is the oldest known civilization of the world; to the east Moses led the children of Israel, and it is there that he is supposed to have received the laws which have had such far-reaching effects all down through the ages. The nineteenth and twentieth chapters of Exodus, tell of the wanderings of the children of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai and of the call of Moses into the mount and of his receiving the Ten Commandments. I should like to incorporate these two chapters into this article, but since I am a great believer in consulting original sources, I suggest that the reader read his own Bible. I hope that this description of the situation where these things took place will give added interest to the narrative, just as the rereading of them is more interesting to me here in view of Sinai than it has ever been before.