[Vol53 | December 1966 | Page 932 | Fiction | A Gift for My Love Myrtle | Stowell Call]
We decorated it with care and we thought it was the loveliest tree we had ever 932 Myrtle Stowell Call had. The room looked very gay, and the gifts under the tree added charm and color with their bright wrappings and gay ribbons. I had always wanted to give Doctor a special gift at Christmas time, a gift that would endure and be a reminder of my love and devotion. The year before, on the day after Christmas,. I went to Edgley's jewelry store. I chose a man's ring with a beautiful diamond in a lovely setting. I had Mr. Edgley put it away, and I Yer ey ou So Sn So" SS arranged to make payments on it every month. Finally, it was paid for, and a few days before Christmas I went to the store to pick it up. The jeweler put it in a beautiful blue velvet box, wrapped it in bright paper, and decked it with ribbons. Later I put the box in a larger box nested in tissue paper. Then I put beautiful wrappings on it. Christmas Eve came. Friends dropped in. Helene and Vaun each called long distance to wish us a happy Christmas. Finally, we were alone. We knew that all was well. As the stillness, which is a part of Christmas Eve, settled over the house, we decided to break an old custom. On Christmas morning the family had _ always gathered around the tree and had opened our presents together. Tonight, we would open the special presents, our gifts to each other. We went to the tree for our packages and returned to our chairs before the dying embers in the fireplace. I laid my gift on Doctor's knees, and in my hand he put a small box. He shook his box. "Is it a shirt or a sweater?" he asked. "You can never guess," I assured him, "so you might as well open it." I watched breathlessly as he removed the wrappings. At last he drew out the velvet box. His interest increased. He opened it carefully and the sparkle of the stone matched that in his eyes. "How on earth did you manage this?" he exclaimed. "What a beauty!" I told him the story of how I had put it away and paid for it over the past year. He had a twinkle in his eyes when he asked, "'Aren't you going to open your present now?' "T can hardly wait," I said, as I began to remove the wrappings. As they fell away, a lovely blue velvet box lay in my hand. With trembling fingers, I lifted the lid. Inside was a beautiful diamond ring. We looked at each other and laughed. Doctor had chosen it right after the last Christmas. We had both been paying on diamond rings. "I'll bet Mr. Edgley got a lot of laughs over this," said Doctor, "he knew both of our secrets." He then took my hand and drew from my finger the ring he had given me more than thirty years before. It was frail and worn. He took the new ring from the box. "'This is the kind of diamond I wanted to give you then," he said. As he placed the ring on my finger, he spoke gently the same words he had said so long ago, "T love you, I need you, together we cannot fail."' 933 Ps _ Se ey QUILTING IS A PLEASURE Lydia Lovell Evans, Delta, Utah, learned to quilt at the age of nine and became an expert in washing and carding wool. Her quilts adorn many homes throughout the West and have won a number of prizes at county fairs. She keeps several on hand for presenting as gifts to the needy. An excellent cook, she makes regulat visits to the sick and homebound, taking samples of her cooking and baking as gifts. Mother of six children, she is blessed with fourteen grandchildren and twentyseven great-grandchildren who reflect in their lives the talents and artistry of their beloved grandmother and great-grandmother. Sister Evans has served Relief Society in many capacities since her membership in young womanhood. Elsie Clegg, Downey, Idaho, regards quilting as a handicraft worthy of her skill and her ideals of beauty in design and craftsmanship. She calls herself ''a saver and a piecer,'' utilizing small scraps of beautifully colored materials to make her sunburst patterns and her intricately patterned ''blocks'"' of pleasing harmony. Her applique quilts reflect the lovely colors and shapes of natural flowers and leaves, with the added effectiveness of artistic arrangement. Sister Clegg loves to serve in Relief Society. She is devoted to her daughter, her six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren, remembering them with gifts of handicraft and homemade candy.