[Vol53 | December 1966 | Page 944 | General Feature | Social Relations . . . "Follow Thou Me" | Alberta H. Christensen]
SOCIAL RELATIONS — On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 3—"'Follow Thou Me" (2 Nephi 31:10) Reference: ''On Earth and in Heaven,'' Melchizedek Priesthood Manual—1967, Lessons 20 and 21) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To assist Latter-day Saint women in understanding the ordinance of baptism and to point out the individual responsibilities involved in this everlasting covenant. FOLLOW-UP Have a class member relate the reaction of a child, or of an adult in relation to a_ special blessing as a guiding influence. 944 INTRODUCTION Baptism as a word and as a religious rite has become so familiar to us that often we may lose awareness of those aspects which give it significance as an essential gospel ordinance. Perhaps we may not know the specific answers to such questions as (1) Who and how was the first person on earth baptized? (2) Were the prophets of old baptized? (3) Were baptisms performed anciently on the American Conti-- nent? (4) Why is immersion the approved method of baptism? (5) What symbolism is involved in the ordinance of baptism? (6) Why was Jesus, the Christ, he who was without sin, baptized? This lesson will give consideration to these questions, correlating closely with lessons 20 and 21 of the 1967 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual. BAPTISM IN ANCIENT TIMES That Adam, our first mortal father, was baptized, is recorded in the following words: And it came to pass, when the Lord had spoken with Adam, our father, that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water. And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him, and thus he was born of the Spirit, and became quickened in the inner man. And he heard a voice out of heaven, saying: Thou art baptized with fire, and with the Holy Ghost. This is the record of the Father, and the Son, from henceforth and forever (Moses 6:64-66). That baptisms were performed in the days of the Old Testament patriarchs and prophets is indicated in the following scripture: Believe and repent of your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. The Son of God, even as our LESSON DEPARTMENT fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost... (Moses 8:24). IN ANCIENT AMERICA That baptism as an_ ordinance essential to salvation was well known to Israel's prophets anciently, has ample scriptural support. Baptisms were also' performed anciently upon the American Continent. Hundreds of years before the advent of the Savior, inspired men foretold the coming of the Messiah, in the meridian of time, and taught the principles of the gospel, including the significance and _ the blessing of baptism. Consequently, numerous baptisms were performed before the birth of the Savior, as is evidenced in the following scripture: And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did preach unto the Lamanites with such great power and authority, for they had power and authority given unto them that they might speak, and they also had what they should speak given unto them— Therefore they did speak unto the great astonishment of the Lamanites, to the convincing them, insomuch that there were eight thousand of the Lamanites who were in the land of Zarahemla and round about baptized unto repentance, and were convinced of the wickedness of the traditions of their fathers (Helaman. 5:18-19). Nearly six hundred years before the voice of John was heard in the wilderness of Judaea, crying, '"Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight" (Matt. 3:3), the prophet Lehi, upon the American Continent, spoke prophetically of the coming of the Messiah, of the preparatory mission of John who would baptize in Bethabara, beyond Jordan, and that he "should baptize with water; even that he 


 should baptize the Messiah with water" (1 Nephi 10:9). Lehi foretold that after the baptism of Jesus with water that he (John) should behold and bear record that he had baptized the Lamb of God, who should take away the sins of the world. At the time the risen Lord visited the Nephites upon the American Continent, he spake unto Nephi (for Nephi was among the multitude) and he commanded him that he should come forth. ' And Nephi arose and went forth, and bowed himself before the Lord and did kiss his feet. And the Lord commanded him that he should arise. And he arose and stood before him. And the Lord said unto him: I give unto you power that ye shall baptize this people when I am again ascended into heaven. And again the Lord called others, and said unto them likewise; and he gave them power to baptize. And he said unto them: On this wise shall ye baptize; and there shall be no disputations among you. Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins through your words and desireth to be baptized in my name, on this wise shall ye baptize them—Behold, ye shall go down and stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them (3 Nephi 11: 18-23). "TO FULFIL ALL RIGHTEOUSNESS" During the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Emperor of Rome, the people in the vicinity of Jerusalem were aroused by the strange preaching of one called John, son of Zacharias, later to be known as John the Baptist. The burden of his message was repentance and baptism for the remission of sin. "Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand" (Matt. 3:2) came from the voice in the wilder- 946 ness. Those who professed faith, and confessed their sins, he baptized by immersion in water, proclaiming, "I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance: but he that cometh after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire' (Matt. 3:11). To this same prophet preacher, Jesus came journeying from his home in Galilee to Jordan to be baptized of him. But John forbad him, saying, I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me? And Jesus answering said unto him, Suffer it to be so now: for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffered him. And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased (Matt. 3:14-17). The prophet Nephi saw in vision the events surrounding the baptism of Jesus and received by revelation knowledge as to why the Savior, who was without sin and had no need for repentance, should be baptized. And now, if the Lamb of God, he being holy, should have need to be baptized by water, to fulfil all righteousness, O then, how much more need have we, being unholy, to be baptized, yea, even by water! And now, I would ask of you, my beloved brethren, wherein the Lamb of God did fulfil all righteousness in being baptized by water? Know ye not that he was holy? But notwithstanding he being holy, he showeth unto the children of men that, according to the flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his commandments. Wherefore, after he was baptized with water the Holy Ghost descended upon him in the form of a dove. And again, it showeth unto the children of men the straightness of the path, and the narrowness of the gate, by which they should enter, he having set the example before them. And he said unto the children of men: Follow thou me. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we follow Jesus save we shall be willing to keep the commandments of the Father? And the Father said: Repent ye, and be baptized in the name of my Beloved Son. And also, the voice of the Son came unto me, saying: He that is baptized in my name, to him will the Father give the Holy Ghost, like unto me; wherefore, follow me, and do the things which ye have seen me do (2 Nephi 31:5-12). For Discussion The foregoing scripture points out several ways by which the baptism of Jesus might "fulfil all righteousness": 1. Setting an example to all men as to the method (immersion) and importance of the ordinance of baptism, his admonition being "Follow thou me... And do the things which ye have seen me do" (2 Nephi 31: 10, 12). 2. Witnessing to the Father that he would be obedient unto him in all things. 3. Evidencing that he was willing to humble himself before the Father. Would the following reasons for man's being baptized apply to the baptism of Jesus? Discuss. 1. For the remission of sin. 2. As a precedent to receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost. 3. To gain salvation. 4. To get on the straight and narrow path that leads to the celestial kingdom. 5. To gain membership in the kingdom of God on earth (the Church). LESSON DEPARTMENT WHAT IS BAPTISM? Baptism is an ordinance of salvation, admitting men to membership in the earthly Church and making it possible for them to enter and progress in the celestial kingdom of the Father.... Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. A man may be saved, after the judgment, in the terrestrial kingdom, or in the telestial kingdom, but he can never see the celestial kingdom of God, without being born of water and the Spirit. He may receive a glory like unto the moon, [i. E. Of which the light of the moon is typical], or a star, [ie. Of which the light of the stars is typical], but he can never come unto Mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels; to the general assembly and Church of the Firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus the Mediator of the new covenant, unless he becomes as a little child, and is taught by the Spirit of God (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 12; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 20). Baptism is spoken of as a "new and everlasting covenant" in modern scripture (D&C 22:1). It is new in that it has been revealed anew in this day and everlasting since it was inaugurated in the beginning as being essential to salvation and will continue to be required of men as long as the earth stands. In lesson 20 of the 1967 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, are these succinct statements: Salvation is offered to man by covenant. That is, man enters into a contractual agreement with the Lord whereby man may be saved in the 


 kingdom of God on certain terms and conditions. The gospel itself is the everlasting covenant by which salvation is offered, and man accepts the provisions of the gospel covenant by being baptized. Baptism is in effect the signing of the gospel covenant by man.. In ancient America a goodly number of Nephites had assembled at the waters of Mormon, and Alma "'did preach unto them repentance, and redemption, and faith on the Lord" (Mosiah 18: 7). And it came to pass that Alma said unto them: as ye are desirous to come into the fold of God, and to be called his people, and are willing to bear one another's burdens, that they may be light; Yea, and are willing to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in, even until death, that ye may be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first resurrection, that ye may have eternal life— Now I say unto you, if this be the desire of your hearts, what have you against being baptized in the name of the Lord, as a witness before him that ye have entered into a covenant with him, that ye will serve him and keep his commandments, that he may pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon you? (Mosiah 18:8-10); 1967 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 20). Class Activity In the foregoing scripture, Alma speaks of baptism as a covenant and enumerates a number of things that man must be willing to do in order that he shall have in return: 1. The Spirit of the Lord, that is, receive the gift and companionship of the Holy Ghost. 948 2. Be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first resurrection, and have eternal life. What are the seven terms and conditions of the baptismal covenant, as summarized by Alma, at the waters of Mormon? BY WAY OF COMMANDMENT Baptism is not merely an invitation for men to come and partake of the blessings of the gospel. Having instituted it as an essential to salvation, the Father desires all who will comply with this saving ordinance to have the benefits to be derived therefrom. It is given to man by way of commandment, as is attested by the following words of the Savior, spoken to the Nephites: Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins through your words and desireth to be baptized in my name, on this wise shall ye baptize them—Behold, ye shall go down and stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them. And now behold, these are the words ye shall say, calling them by name, saying: Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. And then shall ye immerse them in the water, and come forth again out of the water. And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name; for behold, verily I say unto you, that the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost are one; and I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and I are one. And according as I have commanded you thus shall ye baptize (3 Nephi 11: 23-28). "BAPTISM REQUIRED IN ALL AGES" The Prophet Joseph Smith stated that, { In the former ages of the world, before the Saviour came in the flesh, "the saints" were baptized in the name of Jesus Christ to come, because there never was any other name whereby man could be saved; and after he came in the flesh and was crucified, then the saints were baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, crucified, risen from the dead and ascended into heaven, that they might be buried in baptism like him, and be raised in glory like him, that as there was but one Lord, one faith, one baptism, and one God and Father of us all, even so there was but one door to the mansions of (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 266). IN SIMILITUDE "All ordinances of the gospel are ordained in such a way as to teach and symbolize eternal gospel truths" (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 21). The sacramental bread and water which are in remembrance of the Savior's sacrifice of flesh and blood, is an example. Symbolism is likewise involved in the ordinance of baptism by immersion; symbolizing the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. The ordinance is performed by an authorized bearer of the Priesthood and consists of immersion in water and the recitation of the following prescribed baptismal prayer: Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of a Holy Ghost. Amen (3 Nephi 11: 25). For definite reasons, immersion of the body in water is the only approved mode of baptism. The example set by Jesus, who was baptized of John, confirms this statement. It is of interest bliss. LESSON DEPARTMENT to note that "Sprinkling or pouring did not come into vogue until two or three centuries after Christ, and such a practice was not universal until about the 13th century, A. D." (SmitH, JoSEPH FIELDING: Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. II, page 323). President Joseph Fielding Smith further states: Baptism cannot be by any other means than immersion of the entire body in water, for the following reason: 1. It is in the similitude of the death, burial, and _ resurrection of Jesus Christ, and of all others who have received the resurrection. 2. Baptism is also a birth and is performed in the similitude of the birth of a child into this world. 3. Baptism is not only a figure of the resurrection, but also is literally a transplanting or resurrection from one life to another—from the life of sin to the life of spiritual life (Ibid., pages 323-324). Further clarification of reason number 2 is found in Moses 6: 58-60, as follows: Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these' things freely unto your children, saying: That by reason of transgression cometh the fall, which fall bringeth death, and inasmuch as ye were born into the world by water, and blood, and the spirit, which I have made, and so became of dust a living soul, even so ye must be born again into the kingdom of heaven, of water, and of the Spirit, and be cleansed by blood, even the blood of mine Only Begotten, that ye might be sanctified from all sin, and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory. For by the water ye keep the commandment; by the Spirit ye are justified, and by the blood ye are sanctified. Class Activity 1. What does it mean "to teach 


 these things freely unto your children''? 2. Need a mother wait to do this until a child nears the time for baptism? If not, how may she prepare him for this ordinance at a younger age? 3. Following are some of the aspects of baptism important for the child to know. Discuss as time permits: a. Baptism is a commandment of the Lord. B. Baptism admits to membership in the Church. C. Baptism is the pattern set by Jesus. D. Baptism is by immersion. E. Baptism brings a remission of sin. F. After baptism one is accountable for his own actions. If there is a recently baptized member in the class, have her relate very briefly her change of attitude after baptism. CONSIDER THE JUSTICE Since baptism is an ordinance of salvation essential to man's exaltation; since no accountable individual can enter the celestial kingdom without benefit of baptism; and since baptism is an ordinance to be performed upon earth, the justice of divine law requires that provision be made for all those who have died without having an opportunity, to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ and by authority of the Holy Priesthood. Vicarious baptism for the dead is that provision. It is an important evidence that the Lord's house is a house of order and that divine justice operates in both the kingdom of heaven and in the kingdom of earth. FOR HOME DOING Implement the class discussion by checking through the commitments involved in the covenant of baptism. Check on your own performance to see if they are a directing force in your life. If there are children in the home, help them to see that baptism involves individual responsibility. NOTE TO CLASS LEADERS In presenting this lesson emphasize in the discussion how these ordinances directly affect each sister's life and, in turn, the lives of those who live with her. (See Lesson Helps.)