[Vol53 | December 1966 | Page 882 | General Feature | From Near | and Far]
[From Near and Far]

I am Navajo from Gallup, New Mexico, Toh-la-Kai Trading Post. We have two little girls, one eight months and the other four years old—such a wonderful family. Now I am moving to another place. Mrs. Stella Mae Platero Fort Worth, Texas How proud we are in Afghanistan to see our branch on the list of Relief Society organizations in the June issue of the Magazine. Though halfway around the world, and though our membership varies with the constant comings and goings of Government personnel, we are grateful for the lessons and for the beautiful Magazine that brings them to us. Leah Y. Bryson USAID/TB Afghanistan Our family appreciated the little story "Bird Dramas" written by Rose A. Openshaw, in the September issue of the Magazine. It expressed in an in: formative way the many interesting things that go on around us when we pause to observe. We thought it was especially well written and delightfully descriptive. The Potts Family Mesa, Arizona What a masterpiece! It is a masterpiece—the birthday congratulations "The Testimony of a Prophet,'' which you dear Relief Society officers have expressed in behalf of every member. Thank you sincerely for saying it for me. In addition, it is my testimony that not only is he a prophet, but President McKay is a great leader inspired of God for the present day. Lilly Engle Huntington, Utah 882 I have enjoyed The Relief Society azine for years in English, and now we have it in Spanish, I know the many more sisters will be blessed. Had in our home a few months < a young girl who was recuperating f surgery, and who had been stud the gospel with our Spanish-spez missionaries. She read The Relief § ciety Magazine from cover to cover 2 then expressed a desire to become member of Relief Society. She was E tized into the Church at the end of week. We can already see the fruit the Magazine in Spanish. Louisa Ont Houston, T: in the August Relief Society Magazi I was particularly impressed with article '"'Are We Seekers?'"' by H Hinckley Jones, perhaps because know the author, having had the p ilege of being her student for past three years. This brilliant, m talented, and delightful woman is fine example of one who cons seeks. Then, besides imparting to she teaches, both in Church class and at Pasadena City College, the wisdom and understanding she has found, she also stimulates others to seek, and guides them in their quest. Lael J. Li Monterey Park, California Since the missionaries have provic me with a monthly copy of The Re Society Magazine, I have become even more aware that the Church provides for growth in important aspects of b this mortal life and in our eternal life. I will marry a fine Latter-day Saint in a few months, and so I particula enjoy the timely household hints t experienced mothers in the Church é sharing with the other sisters. Stories have inspired me at the time they have helped me to pra using the English language. Marion C Diisseldorf,
