[Vol53 | December 1966 | Page 898 | Fiction | A Star's Slim Light | Alice Morrey Bailey]
He was a photographer, and surely the vicinity offered an endless A STAR'S SLIM LIGHT parade of subjects. Luke had thought seriously of opening a studio. The loss of his wife and son in such a cruelly short time had catapulted him into his present occupation. His present assignment was "Native Son Rediscovers America,' but it had not been like coming back to the America of Washington and Lincoln, the California Gold Rush, the covered wagon and sage brush, nor even of the war years. It was like coming to a new land, even a new planet—the coming true of the science fiction of his boyhood. Luke had traveled east and west and north and south, 11,000 miles in the last three months. When he had come home from the war he had draped himself over the shiprail and watched the Old Girl rise slowly out of the horizon, and he had _ blubbered like a baby, not alone, either. This time he left Scotland by jet in the dawn, had lunch comfortably in New York. He could have seen the sun set in Denver, slept in San Francisco. He had gone through his assignment in excitement and wideeyed wonder. He had been awed by dams and dynamos, automation and communications, electronics and nucleonics. He had been amused by gadgets, amazed by the surrealist nightmare of freeways in downtown Los Angeles, where four layers of traffic sped in diverse directions. He had used striped tooth-paste and taken "helicabs" from hotel to airport, used vending machines that changed folding money, and tuned his TV by push-button from across his hotel rooms. But what about the people? 


 Luke was still not satisfied. He had talked to literally hundreds of them, but only superficially, in spite of his penetrating newsman's questions. You can't talk to people on the run, and that was what Americans were—even as he had been throughout the last three months. Whole families were driven by schedules, from the tiniest tot with her dancing classes to the busy executive with split-second appointments. The clock was the most important instrument in the nation. Luke had seen the physical and the intellectual America, but he hadn't yet been fully exposed to its spirit and its heart. Were the critics right? Was it true that America was materialistic, in pursuit of money, possessions, instead of values, fun, instead of joy? What were the young Americans really like? Luke had a personal stake in his quest. If his son had lived, what would he be like? Luke was almost afraid to know. How long he pondered he did not know, but, all at once, bobbing up from behind rises, disappearing in the low places, a coming toward him car Was 900 through the storm, its lights on, although it was not yet dark. Luke got out and stood beside the road. He thought amusedly that if he were a modern wise man in pursuit of a nebulous dream, here, at least, was a modern star. The youth who unfolded himself from the Volkswagen was as tall as Luke himself, and Luke was a tall man. "You stuck, sir? Can I give you a hand?" "You surely can," said Luke gratefully. They worked for half an hour to get Luke's car out, but it was no use, the young man applying himself as if he were personally involved, and not giving up until Luke finally said: "I'd better go into town, if you'll give me a ride, and have a tow car out tomorrow. My name's Luke McKean." "And I'm Peter Brent," the young man responded, quickly stripping off a wet glove to shake hands. Once inside the car Luke had time to study the youth in the faint light from the dashboard in the growing dark, to watch his skillful manipulations of the car through the storm on the slippery road. He had features as classic as those on the head of a coin, a bright, intelligent, open countenance. Luke had to fight down a growing feeling of kinship with the boy, to keep objective, because here was his probable last chance before a new assignment, a captive specimen at his disposal for probably two hours. "What brings you out on a night like this?" he began. "My girl. She's a college student at the Brigham Young University, lives in Evanston. I took her home for the holidays. What brings you out, sir?" "Something as elusive as the Holy Grail,' Luke answered eva-. Sively. He had no intention of being the interviewee, or of tipping his hand, and it wasn't his habit to lie. "I have been trying to figure out how old you are." '"'Nineteen."' "TI would have guessed a year or two older," Luke said. Nineteen! Just the age David would have been. If he had lived what would he have been doing now? It was a little shock to realize he had always thought of David as a small boy. "What do you do—work, go to school?" he asked, trying to hide his growing eagerness. "I'm in my second year of college." "Aren't you a little young for that?" "Maybe. I was lucky. One of the few who went into college instead of my last year of high school. It's an experiment. Gave me a lift on my major." "Which is?" "Science, of course," he said, as if it were all one word of a foregone conclusion. "T hear the graduates in scientific fields can go to work at top salary when they graduate." "That's a point," admitted the boy. Probably the most important point, Luke thought, if the critics were right. "You'll be out of college by the time you're twenty-one." "Not exactly," said Peter. 'I have a call to go on a mission for my Church. I'm leaving as soon as school's out in June—be gone two years." "Then you're a Mormon. Don't you resent having your school A STAR'S SLIM LIGHT broken into? Is it mandatory? Don't you dare disobey? Would it not be better to wait until you are through college?' Luke had met briefly a few missionaries from the Latter-day Saints Church in his travels; he had attended a soul-stirring concert of the Tabernacle Choir when it toured Europe, and he was conversant with the tenets from his brief stay after the war. He had never met the question head-on, remembering Mary's early desire, nor had he cast it from his mind. "You have the wrong slant, Mister," Peter said, a little nettled. "I want to go. I've long planned on it. My only worry was that I might not be called. It just so happens it fits in with my plans for school—my lower division behind me. When I get back I want to go all out and not stop until I get my Ph. D." "Well, then, you are a young man with a direction," Luke said, and added as a goad, "if it is the right direction. How do you know it is?" QUESTIONING was Luke's business; he was past master at separating information from individuals, and he had more than a small smattering of science, philosophy, and comparative religion. He questioned Peter through the skies and around the globe, parrying him at the edge of sword-sharp wit, and backing him into verbal corners. He had the young man at the rapier point of logic many times, but always Peter acquitted himself, sometimes sending the weapon flying from Luke's hand. He didn't always have the proof, but he knew the basic principles, and he warmed to the fight, thought 


 through each question with deliberation and logic. Peter's God was as big as the universe, with creation unlimited, love unbounded, yet he had certain definite characteristics, and Peter knew he lived with a passion Luke thought had died with the last apostle. There were conviction and authority in his voice. "We have the answer to all the troubles in the world." Luke frankly envied him. On other matters he was just as sure. No, Russia would never conquer America. No other nation ever would, so long as it was a Christian nation and held fast to its principles of freedom. It was a chosen land, a promised land, even the Garden of Eden. Science was wonderful, as far as it went. Scientists were on the way, faster now than ever, and when they learned everything there was to know they would know the vast laws of God. Luke could not disagree. By the time they came to Parley's Canyon, with the city spread before them like a lap of multi-colored jewels from the mountains to the lake, Luke was satisfied about Peter, but there were still some riddles. Of what was he a product? "You'd better drop me off at a convenient hotel," he said, dreading the thought of another Christmas Day in a hotel. "Not a chance," said Peter. "My family would never forgive me—a stranger alone on Christmas." They drove to a large, comfortable looking home, not in the most deluxe district, nor yet in the less-than-average, and Luke told himself this was good; it 902 would further his research. In truth, he had to know more about Peter, not lose touch with him. If David had lived would he think as Peter thought, live as Peter lived? The house was blazing light from every window in true, outgoing Christmas spirit, and Luke was aware of a_ sudden little feeling of dread. Could it be jealousy? They had talked of everything under the sun_ except Peter's parents. Somehow Luke had avoided the subject. Was it because he was identifying this boy with David, and himself as Peter's father? At least, at the door, there was a brief reprieve. "I've brought home one of the wise men," the boy told the flushed, motherly woman who came to the door. "Aunt Mel— Uncle Dick, is it all right if Mr. McKean spends Christmas with us?" "More like one of the
stupid men," amended Luke, not giving them a chance to say no. "Are you sure I'm not putting you out —a stranger on a holiday?" "You won't be a stranger long, not with this bunch. Peter, put Mr. McKean in the little bedroom, and then come to the table, both of you. I haven't time for introductions. The gravy's boiling over." Luke was overwhelmed. If this was the real heart of America, it was a pulsing one—a big family, pretty girls, another grown boy putting chairs around the dining table, steaming food being brought from the kitchen. It was a kaleidograph of sparkle and movement—a lighted Christmas tree which touched the ceiling, flashing with light and color, the floor underneath heaped with gaily wrapped packages. Oh, this was the kind of Christmas of which Luke had dreamed! By the time they were all seated, he had slipped into the family so easily he knew all of them—Aunt Mel, Uncle Dick, Peter's cousins, Sue and Virginia and Mary Ellen, and Richard, who was Peter's age. Where exactly did Peter fit into this household? ''Where's Mother?" Peter said. "She went to give her 'Star' lecture,' Aunt Mel answered. "By the way, she was worried about you." "Don't kid me," said Peter callously. 'She never worried about me a minute in her life." Well, here it is, thought Luke. No family loyalty—perhaps divorce. "Good reason," Aunt Mel said complacently. '""You never gave her cause." "Speaking of angels," someone said. The door opened and a shower of parcels dropped from the hands of the smartly dressed, slim woman at the door. Peter jumped to help her. There was no doubt it was his mother—the same feminine counterpart of his classic features, the same bright intelligent face. "You're just in time, Jennifer. Virginia, get Aunt Jen's plate from the oven." It was some time later, after all the introductions and explanations had been made, the dishes done and the children gone— Richard to see his girl, Sue and Peter caroling, and the other two subbing-for-Santa, that Luke was able to make his way to Jennifer's side before the fireplace. "T'm impressed with your son. Is he a special dispensation?" "No, run of the mill. It's hard to tell him and his friends apart at this age. They dress the same, have the same goals, talk the same." "Really?'' marveled Luke. "I have been wondering about his father."" Luke couldn't refrain from the question. "His father was killed in the war. Peter never knew him, but he is surprisingly like him. Mel and Dick took me in when I was so broken up, and somehow we just stayed. It has been a marvelous arrangement—Peter got the normal background of a large family life, and I was able to be part father and mother to him. Now, what about you? What brings you to Salt Lake City?" Luke told her everything without reserve, because she was the kind of listening, perceiving woman to whom a man could talk. "And the house?" she queried. "When are you going up and 'knock on that door?" Luke pondered. Where had the desire gone? "T know now what it was," he said at last. "And it wasn't so silly after all. I wanted to know what David would be like if he grew up as his mother wanted him to grow. I found out, talking to your son. That was the door. I have already found it. I have already knocked!" He looked into Jennifer's eyes, and the door swung wide and wider. 903