[Vol53 | December 1966 | Page 906 | General Feature | Editorial: The 136th Semi- Annual | Church Conference]
[Editorial: The 136th Semi- Annual Church Conference]

EDITORIAL 

 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Wi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mi Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson lrene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Tayior Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West M@ The 136th Semi-Annual General Conference was held in the historic Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 31 and October 1, and 2, 1966. The proceedings were broadcast in four languages to the world over nearly two hundred radio and television stations, carrying afar to many nations the message of the everlasting gospel. The theme of the conference, vital to this and all generations, was the everlasting commandments and covenants revealed through the restoration of the gospel. For the first time, five members of the First Presidency attended Conference, and each of them, except President Thorpe B. Isaacson, who is_ recuperating from an illness, addressed the assemblage. President David O. McKay, in his ninety-fourth year, keynoted the opening session and declared the gospel of Jesus Christ and the observance of its responsibilities and requirements as the only effective solution of the problems of a perilous world: Today, in the midst of the world's perplexity, there should be no question in the mind of any true Latterday Saint as to what we shall preach. The answer is as clear as the noonday sun in a cloudless sky.... This is the Word which we should preach— the gospel plan of salvation.... Proclaim that God lives, and that his Beloved Son is the Redeemer and Savior of mankind; that he stands at the head of his Church that bears his name.... These eternal verities are applicable in the year 1966 as they were when Jesus first promulgated them. President Hugh B. Brown appealed to Latter-day Saint parents throughout the world to bring up their children in light and truth, and thus to establish the fundamental patterns of virtue, obedience, and responsibility:. God help us and all the world to sense the reality that the gospel of Jesus Christ is established among men, and that through obedience to it, the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man may be realities to every mother and father, every son and daughter. God hasten the day when that testimony will be real in every heart. Parents are charged with the responsibility of teaching the undoubted truth—that there is no principle more widely seen in all nature and more sternly enforced from the infinitismal electron to the incomprehensible galaxies in outer space, than this: ''Not only liberty but law prevails."' President N. Eldon Tanner spoke of the strength and serenity, the power and effectiveness, given unto those who observe the principles of the gospel:. Men who live righteous lives and lose themselves in the service of the Lord meet the problems of the world with greater serenity and assurance.... We as leaders and members of the Church have a heavy responsibility to help our youth to know and understand that the Bible and The Book of Mormon which were written on opposite sides of the world, are the records of God's dealings with his people on these two hemispheres. They are... Testimonies of many righteous men whose integrity cannot be questioned.... These testimonies have been handed down to us by the prophets. President Joseph Fielding Smith called upon the saints to remember their covenants and promises, and to live above the pitfalls of worldly influences:. Repentance from sin is extremely essential throughout the world today. There has seldom been a time in the history of mankind when sin was not prevalent and the violation of the divine commandments was almost, if not entirely universal... The Father permitted Lucifer to come here so that he could tempt us and test our faith. It is a divine decree, and one that is evidently essential that we have this mortal probation, and we are in it to be tested and proved to see if we can keep the commandments in the face of temptation or trial.... This mortal life is part of eternal life. At the concluding session of the conference in a message delivered by his son Robert, President McKay blessed the members of the Church throughout the world, encouraging them, and inspiring them to seek always the path of truth and to observe the commandments. The gospel of Jesus Christ, as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, is in very deed in every way, the power of God unto salvation. It gives to every man the perfect life here, and through obedience of gospel principles, it gives us eternal life. To know God and his Son is eternal life. There is the key. Eternal life is what I desire... Life eternal, for me and mine, for you, and for all the world.