XLVII.
	Maitland’s letter telling of Clair Hilliard’s
death in a foreign land, together with Sid-
ney’s departure for England, and the pecu-
liar feelings brought about by the existing
circumstances, had a depressing effect even
upon Mrs. Harrison’s even temperament;
she could not altogether enter into the do-
mestic duties, with the zest and cheerfulness
natural to her, not even in the presence of
the children. Unusual to her former habit
she would take long drives and solitary
walks, and fancied she could thus throw off
the melancholy which seemed to haunt her.
The conversation with her husband con-

[Column 2]
cerning family events at the old place so
dear to her recollection had brought clearly
before her the beautiful scenery of rural
England, with all its delicious settings of
castles, towers, parks and grounds and the
various environments that have such a
strong hold upon the true English character.
She saw these things in a sort of dreamy
haze, as she went about her daily occupa-
tions, and though she strove against it, she
could not quite erase it from her mind’s
eye. The time seemed long while waiting
for letters, and she prayed more fervently
than ever before, that all might be well,
that the children of her beloved cousin Anna
might come to her, and the posterity of her
uncle, might yet be a blessing upon
the earth. Her prayer was answered
by a dream, which gave her gr at comfort
as regarded Anna's children, even though
she realized she had yet to undergo her
greatest trial, and to stand as it were alone.
Strange that one individual should be
called to pass through the fiery furnace of
affliction unhelped as it were, except by the
unseen, while others reared under the same
roof seldom or never know what such or-
deals are. Yet it is these severe afflictions
that rend the human soul, that teach the
deepest lessons, that strengthen the highest
attributes, and lead upward to the divinest
attainments possible to humanity.
	Had Jane Conway known when leaving
her mother’s grave to visit her uncle at
Hilliard castle, all it would involve, she
would not have had the courage equal to
such efforts, but coming one by one these
trials only helped to develop the possibili-
ities of her character, and she rose from each
one, better prepared to undergo the next,
though it should be still darker and heavier.
Her life with Robert Harrison might have
been almost a dream of happiness, but for
others in whom she took such a deep inter-
est, as to throw dark shadows across the
sunshine, and then the war had taken him
from her, and she knew not what the result
might be, but she made the sacrifice nobly
as became the grand women of those old
days, and felt the cause, was worthy the
lives of the greatest and best men of the age.
Yet she would have grieved none the less,
had Robert been slain.
	Mrs. Harrison felt in her inmost soul
that a dark shadow was hovering near her,
sometimes she shivered with a sort of terror
when alone, and felt she must tell her hus-
band of these gloomy forebodings but she
did not like to be considered visionary as in
such a case it would appear, nor even admit
it to herself.
	This condition of mind no doubt caused
the dream which changed affairs very ma-
terially. Mrs. Harrison had been longing
with impatience for letters from Sidney,
and as yet none had been received. She
had one evening sat up very late talking
with her husband of the past and anticipa-
ting what the future was likely to be, and
had gone to bed about midnight weary,
and somewhat excited over the events of
the past and present.
	She dreamed she was alone in the old
castle; she called and no one answered; she
wandered through the rooms, they were
deserted and dismal; the great elms and oaks
were moaning and bending with the fierce
night wind; she could hear its shrieks and
the crackling of the limbs, as one after
another broke loose and swung to the
ground, and she peered out into the dark-
ness, just as one great tree fell with a loud


