OBITUARIES.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect to Martha Pane Jones
Thomas who departed this life September 5th,
1895.
	Whereas in the Providence of an Allwise God,
we have been called upon to part with our be-
loved sister and friend, who having led a noble
life on earth, and filled her position as counselor
in the Relief Society in an exemplary manner
from the time of its first organization to within the
last four or five years on account of her extreme
old age—
	We her co laborers deem it a pleasant duty to
testily to her faithfulness and integrity in the cause
of truth.
	Therefore be it resolved, that we extend our
sympathy to her family in their bereavement, hav-
ing lost a faithful loving mother and friend.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has called her
home as a shock of corn fully ripe--Therefore
be it resolved, we the members of the Relief
Society do cherish her memory and emulate her
virtues and strive to carry out in our lives her
motherly counsel which was always wise in tem-
poral as well as spiritual things
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be pre-
sented to the family. A c[-]py be entered upon
the record of the Relief Society and a copy be
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.

	IN memory of Sister Susannah W. Perry who
died in Cedar City Sep. 11th, 1895; she was born
in Lancashire, England, on the 19th, of May,
1825. Sister Perry embraced the Gospel in her
native land in the year 1848 and in connection
with her husband emigrated to Utah, arriving in
Cedar City in the year 1852, where she has resided
up to the time of her death. Sister Perry faith-
fully fulfilled the duties of a mother in her own
household and teacher in our Relief Society for
many years.
	Her words of encouragement and kind deeds,
and her strict attendance to the meetings, proved
her faithfulness in this work. She had a remark-
able memory and having read the Scriptures a
great deal could refer to any passage in them.
Suffering from a cancer, the pain of which at
times was almost unendurable, for over two years;
she many times would refer to the trials of Job,
and the great faith he had in his Maker. Her
last hours were seemingly without much pain, and
comforted and sustained by the loving presence
of her husband and her ten sons and daughters,
her spirit took its flight to that home she loved to
sing about.
	The funeral services were conducted in the
Tabernacle, May 13th. Several of the brethren
eulogizing the character of our dear sister and
exhorting those left behind, to emulate her vir-
tues, which may we all strive to do.
	J. P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
Cedar City.

