CASSIA STAKE.
	RELIEF SOCIETY Conference convened
at Oakley, Aug. 16, 1895. President
Louisa Haight, presiding, present were her
counselors, Helen E. Tuttle and Ann Wil-
son: also stake president H. D. Haight
and counselors Moroni Pickett and Frank-
lin F. Brim.
	Conference opened by the choir singing,
“Come Oh Thou King of Kings.” Pray-
er by Bishop William T. Harper. Choir
sang “Israel, Israel God is calling.”
Opening remarks by president Louisa
Haight. Minutes were read. Six branches
of the Relief Society were reported by their
presidents; and three not reported; those
sisters who reported made good remarks.
	Counselor Helen E. Tuttle expressed her
good wishes and made encouraging remarks.
	Counselor Ann Wilson made a few re-
marks
	Sister Marintha A. Stoddard said, “We
must practice what we preach, we should
be energetic and have faith. When we at-
tend our meetings and partake of spiritual
food we are more capable to teach our lit-
tle ones.”
	Sister Rosabell A. Brim spoke of the
many duties devolving upon us, and the
labor we had to perform; said if we would
all do our part the labor would be light.
	President H. D. Haight addressed the
conference was pleased to hear the remarks
of the sisters. This is a life of trial and
disappointment. If we have knowledge
superior to others, we ought to be willing
to impart it unto them, and bring them up
to our standard. Let us be affable and
kind and set a good example before all.
This is the Lord’s work and He acknowleges
the different organizations.
	Choir sang, “O’er the Gloomy Hills of
Darkness.” Benediction by Bishop Thom-
as Taylor.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
by the choir singing, “Lift up Your Heads
ye Scattered Saints.” Prayer by Brother
Franklin F. Brim. Choir sang, “Softly
Beams the Sacred Dawning.” Statistical
and Financial reports were read. Brother
Moroni Pickett said: “I think it is as es-

[Column 2]
sential for women to acquire wisdom and
knowledge as men; for this work is not a
small work it is magnificent. We should
meet together frequently and the more
meetings we attend the more we want to.
We have congregated here today to hear the
reports of the several branches of the Relief
Society and testimonies and be instructed
by those who may address us. Minutes of
first organization of the Relief Society
were read.
	President Louisa Haight spoke to the
sisters about storing up grain, and gave
good instructions.
	Bishop John L. Smith was pleased with the
privilege of attending Relief Society Con-
ference, said, “There are Latter-day Saints
who are advancing, but are the masses? I
think the majority of the people are neglect-
ful; let us throw off that negligence and
let our light shine. Everything is all right
in Zion.
	Congregation sang,“The Spirit of God,”
etc. Benediction by President H. D.
Haight.
LOUISA HAIGHT, President.
L. ROBBINS, Ass’t Sec.

