[Column 1]
a single basis of money means where he
tries to give you a very good illustration of
what a gold basis means, a man trying to
see with one eye, trying to carve a turkey
with one hand and trying to walk with one
leg. That is the kind of a government
you have. You have been trying to run it
with one eye, one arm, one leg and you
have been making just as much of a failure
as you possibly can. You cannot do it
alone, you have got to have the other half,
you have got to have the other sex to make
a complete whole government and the
whole life in the government which has got
to be and you men haven’t got sense
enough to see that it has got to be. So in
this way we women are beginning to see
that some men have as much sense as some
women. (Laughter.)
	I don’t know as I want to say anything
more to you this morning, I expect to speak
this evening. I was very much amazed
when the Governor introduced me. I just
want to say to you I rejoice with you and
how I hope if there is any man or any wo-
man who does not believe in the justice of
Woman Suffrage, or if they are afraid that
women will do something or won’t do
something that they will put their heads to
soak for a little while and try to get sense
enough to believe human rights, in the hu-
man family, in the world, and the people of
the world. I should want to die if I did
not believe in humanity. I would have
some doubts of a man’s honesty if I could
not trust him. A gentleman, a minister
in Kansas City said to me the other day,
“Why if you women had the ballot it
would have a bad effect on politics, the bad
men would compel their wives to vote their
way or they would beat them.” I replied
“Well, all men are not as mean as you are.
(laughter) You may beat your wife, you
may pummel her.’’ Why he got mad in a
minute—he straightened himself up and
said “Do you think I would do that? I
didn’t mean me.” I replied, “Oh, did’nt
you! Who did you mean?” He said
“The other fellow.” [laughter] Every-
body thinks he can do the right thing, it is
the other fellow. Now remember, the oth-
er fellow is quite as likely to do the right
thing as you are, and the people who trust
humanity are the people who will always do
the right thing. Now I am not at all afraid
of what women will do with the ballot, I
am not afraid of what men will do with the
ballot, I even believe in men voting
[laughter] and I know some of them will
cast a mighty mean vote too, and I think if
he is a mean man with a vote he will be a
meaner man without it. One of the best
things to educate people out of their mean-
ness and one of the best things to make us
women fit comrades and friends to men, to
make us charming and amiable is to give us
something more substantial. We women
have been fed on poetry, we women have
been fed on sentiment, and the world has
been going wrong and the men have been
trying to comfort us by repeating what we
have so often heard, “Don’t you know the
power of the silent influence of women,”
and don’t you know what the prayers of a
mother can do?”.  And you have wondered
why it was that it was only the prayers of a
mother that affected the good of the people.
I do not believe that God would not hear a
father’s prayer just as well as he would a
mother’s and I believe that a good man is
quite as good as a good woman and his in-
fluence goes as far if it is silent, and it goes

[Column 2]
a good deal farther. Then we are the
“power behind the throne." That is
beautiful, it is poetic—we always like kings
and queens even if we are a Republic, but
you can’t make Queen Lillioukalana believe
that it is a great deal better to be the “pow-
er behind the throne” than upon it. We
know that it is a great deal better to get on
the throne than to stand behind it though
that gives you a little power. Then they
say, “The hand that rocks the cradle moves
the world.” We have heard that and one
would suppose the woman rocks the cradle
about 75 or 80 years of her life. Day and
night three score years and ten the little
fellow never gets out and she is eternally
rocking. Now if we could only keep these
little fellows in the cradle but the trouble is
the little fellows won’t stay there, and the
woman may sit and rock the cradle like a
hen trying to hatch out a last year’s brood.
Now that is the kind of poetic nonsense
that has befen dealt out to us. The world’s
work needs all the world’s people to work
in harmony to lift up men and women out
of degradation, to lift them out of sin to
righteousness. The condition of the world
requires the best efforts of the best men
and women combined and there will not be
too much bestness. The work of the
world demands the highest and best inter-
ests of men and women working side by
side together and instead of bringing dis-
cord it will bring contentment; and there
never will be contentment in the homes of
the world, there never will be peace in
society until all the world is free, until each
person is free to judge for himself and her-
self their position in the home, in the
world, and in the state. When that is done
there will be no occasion for contention.
When we cease this eternal contention that
a man shall do this and a woman shall do
that, when both are left free to do exactly
as they can do and what the world wants
them to do, then we can look forward to
greater peace and prosperity. So I am
looking forward with great hopes for the
incoming state though I will not be here
when the state comes in, but when the
news comes over the wire that Utah has
been admitted I will rejoice ith you.
The people will ask me when I go back if
I have been hired by any real estate agent
to boom the state and we can boom it too.
There ill not be as much thanksgiving
and gratitude in the hearts of any two
people under the sun as will be in the
hearts of Elizabeth Cady-Stanton and
Susan B. Anthony when we shall be able
to place upon our flag by the place of the
two stars that are there now a third star,
and over the star to be the name of this
magnificent State of Utah, [applause]


