	DEAR READERS of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, your Editor has requested me to
give you some details of a 4000 miles jour-
ney.
	Monday June 17th, at 7 a. m., I left Salt
Lake City on an excursion train of inclining-
chair-cars to Council Bluffs by U. P. Rail-
way and was to return, from the Missouri
River by the D. & R. G. Railway, I ar-
rived at the Bluffs after two days and one
nights’s travel. Having thus crossed these
plains three times by team, and three by
cars. This was the limit of my excursion
ticket.
	Tuesday 18th, I expected to leave on the
evening train after getting lunch, ticket and
checks. I had forgotten to take into con-
sideration, as I was traveling eastward, it
was necessary to watch the depot time, in-
stead of my pocket time, which was that of
Salt Lake City. I was left about an hour
in the lurch. I telegraphed, “Got left,
come next train.” This was no loss to
me, for one needs a good night’s rest after
a thousand miles travel, and I got it.
	Wednesday, June 19th, fresh and happy I
started for Grinnell, Iowa on the Rock Island
Road. About sunset within two miles of
there, we found a freight train ahead with
a smashed up engine, waiting for another
one to draw it off the track. By this delay
we were unable to make connection. What
a blessing in disguise! To sleep nights,
and travel days. Nothing better.
	Thursday, 21st, I took the Iowa Central
for Fremont. I was met at the Depot at 2
p. m., by my niece Amelia Howell and her
husband; and had a four miles ride to their
farm. There I found four boys, and two
small girls happy to be acknowledged by
their aged grand aunt, Dear Readers, I can
tell you that as I seated myself at the table
with these fine looking, intelligent children,
whom I realized were my kindred, it was a
happy moment of my life.
	Friday, 21st, in the morning crossed
Skunk River to the other branches of the
family. Here I was greeted by a family
gathering, consisting of my brother Carlos
Stevens, seven years my senior, and his
wife, they were both very feeble. Their
daughter Jennie Brown, husband, and two
girls, the youngest of whom constantly
clung to my side, his daughter Ida Sullivan,
and husband, and two girls, and a very
bright little boy named after his grand-
father. The entire families both sides of
the river, number sixteen.
	For the sake of brevity, I shall have to
omit much that might be interesting, of the
domestic portion of my visit. I had been
planning to have my brother visit Nauvoo,
Ill. with me, to find my parent’s graves.
	Now it seemed providential, that an ex-
cursion train was to leave the next day for
Nauvoo. My brother said he was too
feeble to go, but consented Saturday 22nd,
at five o’clock a. m. My brother and I
started, and arrived by carriage at the depot
in time to go with the excursion. At 7 a.
m., we arrived at Burlington, at 12 o’clock

[Column 2]
took the excursion boat and reached Nauvoo
about 4 p. m. at the Upper Landing.
Fifty years had passed since I laid my
parents here to rest. A family of five were
then left and soon scattered, thousands of
miles apart.
	I hired a horse and carriage and called on
Phineas Kimball, brother-in-law of Sarah
M. Kimball, of this city. He invited us to
come to his house and make our stay after
our drive. I will here say that in all my
life, I have never received a heartier wel-
come, and been treated with greater hospi-
tality, than by Mr. Kimball and family.
His home is roomy and supplied apparently
with every needed luxury. After a couple
of hours sight seeing, the horse being tired
with having been worked all day, the
driver remarked, “There is no use of hunt-
ing for graves in a corn field.” So I dis-
charged the carriage as we arrived at the
south west corner of the Temple Block,
Here is located a drug store, into which we
went for my brother’s relief. As he was
weary, and his memory failed him, he
could not aid me, and I left him here till I
could locate the spot where my parents
lived and died. I found the place on the
corner of Warsaw (the north end called
Rich) and Ripley St. (the east end called
Commerce.) After I had walked from the
Temple Block, east, across five squares, and
one south, to this spot, and returned I
found my brother engaged in a lively chat
on politics, his favorite theme, in which he
keeps himself well posted. Although
weary, I felt happy that I had located one
land mark.
	Sunday morning, June 23rd, Mrs. Kim-,
ball said, “You leave your brother here and
take my husband and the carriage, and he
will drive just where you want, and you
can hunt all you like for those graves.”
We drove to my first land mark. Here my
recollection was aided by some supernatural
power. We went east then south on to
Parley St. then east nearly to the end of
this fenced up street; about a mile and a
half or two miles from the Temple Block.
Says I, “Mr. Kimball there it is in yonder
orchard.,’ This spot I afterwards learned
had been occupied the 4th of July 1853, as
a camping ground for a general holiday
celebration; later, a corn mill had been
erected there; afterwards a carding machine;
then a grape vineyard; and then an orchard
of large trees. Here I brought my brother,
and he was obliged to admit that I was cor-
rect, to the astonishment of those that had
aided me. What could I say, b[-]t that, the
Lord helps those who help themselves.
	This drug store referred to on the Tem-
ple Block, was built in the early fifties, by
the Icarian Society for a school house. I
have a sketch of their houses, and the Tem-
ple ruins as then existed. The stones of
the walls, were taken from the walls of the
Temple, many of which have been used
for similar purposes, and freighted up and
down the Mississippi River.
	Many of the more ornamental stones of
the Temple, I was told, were lying in a lot
in the eastern part of the city, and might
be very desirable as relics. As to the Tem-


