HYGIENIC COOKERY.
	In the art of preparing food in a whole-
some, nutritious manner, a thorough practical
knowledge of this very useful art ought to
form a part of the education of every young
woman, whatever her station in life. No
position in life is more responsible than
that of the person who arranges the bills of
fare and selects the food for the household,
and what higher mission can one conceive
than to intelligently prepare the wherewithal
to make shoulders strong to bear life’s bur-
dens, and heads clear to solve its intricate
problems. What worthier work than to
help the building up of the bodies into pure
temples fit for guests of noble thoughts
and high purposes. Bread has been
proverbially styled “the staff of life.” In
nearly all ancient languages the word bread
signifies all, indicating that the bread of
earlier periods was in truth what it should
be, at the present time, a staff upon which
all the functions of life might with safety
depend. Notwithstanding the important
part bread is designed to play in the economy
of life, it would be hardly possible to men-
tion another article of food which falls so far
below the standard, either through the
manner of its preparation or the material
used. Were the tables of our land supplied
with good nutritious bread there would be
less desire for cake and other indigestible
articles, which under the present system of
cooking are allowed to compensate for the
inferior quality and preparation of more
wholesome food.
	What is termed white flour has a large
part of the nutritive properties of the grain
left out and unless the deficiency is made
up by other food, the use of bread made
from such material will leave the most vital
tissues of the body poorly n[-]urished and tends
to produce innumerable bad results. People
who eat bread made from fine white flour,
naturally crave the food elements which
have been eliminated from the wheat and
are thus led to an excessive consumption of
meat and other stimulating articles of diet.
The superiority of bread made from entire
wheat or unbolted meal has been attested
by many notable examples in history. In
England under the administration of Wm.
Pitt, there was for several years a scarcity
of wheat, so that to make it last longer, a law
was passed by Parliament that the army
should be supplied with bread made from
unbolted flour. It caused much dissatis-
faction among the men, but nevertheless
the health of the army improved so greatly
as to be a subject of surprise. The officers
and physicians publicly declared the soldiers
had never been so robust and healthy. Ac-
cording to analysis, whole wheat bread con-
tains 60 per cent more of the phosphates or
bone-making material than does meat, and
200 per cent more gluten than white bread.
To white flour may be attributed the early
decay of teeth. If children are to have


