CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
	14, 1895.
			[Continued.]
	Governor West:	Ladies and Gentlemen:
—I am sure it is a matter of congrat-
ulation to you to hear the remarks that
were made by Miss Anthony on the pro-
gress of the cause which you have so near
at heart. I sincerely believe in the near
future the Woman’s Suffrage Union will
prevail all over the United States. The
movement in the past has had a hard and
serious time and it has been up hill work all
the time and obstructions have been in the
way, they were difficult to overcome, but I
believe now all those difficulties have been
overcome and its road will be smooth and
easy. And it is smooth and easy because
of the noble, earnest, sincere, devoted and
self-sacrificing women like Miss Anthony
and her co-workers. Now I have the
pleasure of presenting to you one of the
most earnest and illustrious co-workers
with Miss Anthony in urging this noble
work, The Rev. Dr. Anna Shaw. (Ap-
plause).
	REMARKS BY REV. ANNA SHAW.
	Ladies and Gentlemen:—I only feel very
humble after Miss Anthony has been speak-
ing, for it must seem so grand to say forty-
eight years ago we did so and so. (Laugh-
ter.) It makes one feel so grand, so mag-
nificent. Now I cannot say that I did very
much forty-eight years ago, nor fifty years
ago, but forty-seven years ago I began to
work for suffrage as soon as I began to
breathe, and with the beginning of my
breathing began my energy and my toil in
this direction, I have always rebelled ever
since, I could clinch my little fist as a
baby and when I toddled about as a child,
at the restrictions that were eternally put
about girls and women. And from the
time I can first remember I was called a
Tom-boy and if it was so delightful to be a
Tom-boy, what must it be to be a boy.
(Laughter.) And from the very beginning
it was always thought there was something
the matter with my head, and you cannot
make my father believe that there is not
something the matter with it now. My
father believed that girls ought to be born
with a burning desire to wash dishes; if
not, there was something the matter with
their heads. As I never had the burning
desire to wash dishes but always longed to
chop wood, my father never knew where to
put me, he knew his head was all right
and he didn’t learn to wash dishes he knew
mother’s head was all right but they have
never been able to get me right. I was al-
ways on the wrong side of the fence, I was
always found just where the women were
not expected to be, and when I became a
a young woman I determined to preach the
Gospel. My father said one day, “we all
knew that you would do something, and
you have done it,’’ and so I did it. (Laugh-
ter.)
	After you have struggled with poverty
and social ostracism and discouragement,
and disappointment in the hearts of your
friends and especially your own people, it
is very hard to have them come up and
say when you have succeeded, “If we had not
helped you it would have been a hard time
for you.” 	(Laughter).  It always makes


