CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
	14, 1895.
[Continued.]
	MRS. WELLS: The next speaker will be
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Honarary Vice President
of the Woman Suffrage Association of Utah
and the pioneer woman of Woman Suf-
frage in Utah.
	Miss Anthony: I am very proud as
President of the National Association to in-
troduce to you the Honorable Vice Presi-
dent which we at our last session appointed
for Utah Honarary Vice President of the
National Association.
	Mrs. Kimball: Miss President. Ladies
and Gentlemen:—We are expected to wel-
come Miss Anthony; in the midst of all
this confusion and after what has been said,
what can I say? Excuse me but I will say
I am proud of the honor that has been con-
fered upon me on this occasion, and on be-
half of the Suffragists of the Territory of

[Column 2]
Utah, which is soon to become a state and
in behalf of the friends of suffrage through-
out the Territory, I extend to Miss Anthony
the right hand of fellowship, and with all
reverence, honor and love: I want to be a
little personal. Allow me to say in the
earley fifties I read an article ridiculing a
little paper that was published in the City
of New York called the “Revolution” in
which I saw the names of Elizabeth Cady-
Stanton and Miss Susan B. Anthony. I
looked at the little article of ridicule and I
said “There is something I see in that
which strikes me and I want it," and I
reached out after the little paper I was very
much struck with it. It was very peculiar
and said very many strange things, but I
learned from that little paper the theory and
object they had in view was to create
thought, their idea was if you can get the
people to talk upon this subject, if you can
get them to agitate the subject, agitation
produces reform. Now this is going to be
a reformation and we are going to do all we
can to produce this reformation and we are
going to labor in our own way. Now 52
years ago I would not have dared to say the
bold, grand things that Miss Anthony said,
it would have made me so unpopular and I
hardly dared to shoulder it; but the seed
was planted within my soul and I have been
laboring for the same cause—I felt that it
was uplifting, that it was necessary for the
nation, and as time rolled on we were very
careful. I heard Miss Anthony say in
those days "I did not dare to speak with-
out a paper in my hand” and Mrs. Stanton
did a great deal of writing but she soon got
so she could talk very well and she traveled
in her own way and talked in her own way.
People criticized her and told many ridiculous
things about her and in many ways she was
abused and insulted. My sympathy went
out for Miss Anthony and my sympathies
have been with her work ever since I have
known her, and in my heart I have blessed
her many and many a time and the result
of her labors we are reaping more today
than we realize. I never could have done
the work that I have done in this Territory
had it not been for the work Miss Anthony
did before me. [applause.] Many could
not do the work we have done today, if I
had not pioneered the way. (Applause)
I have had the honor to be addressed by
strangers as Miss Anthony—I had that
honor this morning on the stage by a lady
from Colorado, I think, but Miss Anthony
is a much better looking woman than I am
but that is all right. I must say again Miss
Anthony, I am glad to see you and our
Territory will be proud of your visit, and
we expect that you will do us good and
we hope that you will go from us with
pleasant remembrances of this visit. I
want to say a little more about Miss An-
thony. They used to throw eggs at her
and they used to say the most ridiculous
things about her, and they used to hiss her.
When she went to St. Louis a great many
years ago to deliver a lecture, some one
was kind enough to pass a basket of flowers
to the stage and she looked at them with
amazement and stepped back and said: “I
don’t know how to receive this. Now if
you had thrown rocks at me I would have
had a defense, I would have had some-
thing to say right away."
	On the anniversary of Miss Anthony’s
seventieth birthday it was my privilege to
be in Washington and I attended the grand
banquet, at which Miss Anthony received

[Column 3]
the most distinguished honors that I ever
saw extended to a woman and she has now
lived until she has arrived at that position
in which Napoleon was placed at one time
when he attended a banquet. Someone
criticized where his seat was at the table.they
said, “Napoleon, you should have been set
at the head of the table.” He said, “That
is all right, I am Napoleon and wherever
Napoleon is there is the head of the table,”
(applause) and wherever Miss Anthony is
there is the head of the Woman Suffrage
Movement. (Applause.)
	Mrs. Wells. Ladies and Gentlemen—
This is Mrs, Zina D. H. Young, President of
the Nationol Relief Society and also Hon-
arary Vice-president of the Suffrage Associa-
tion and Honorary Vice-president of the
National American Suffrage Association.
(Applause.)
REMARKS BY MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG.
	Governor of Utah, Ladies and Gentlemen
—You have heard this morning that which
ought to make our hearts glad, that which
should make us thankful to our Heavenly
Father that we live in this stage of the
world that our womanhood is appreciated
and I thank God that I am a woman, and
I am thankful that we have the privilege of
independence in seeking to raise our boys
and girls to be men and women that will
appreciate the dignity of the times we live
in. In the early days to lay the foundation
of this State many of the pioneers laid
down their lives and all of us laid our-
selves on the altar when we started for Utah.
Applause. We now see the result of the
work that has been done and as the last
lady speaker has observed, we will be glad
to see on every flag of the Union that Wo-
man’s Suffrage is especially honored and
that woman is honored in her position. Is
there any nation on the earth that is raised
to dignity and honor without the noble
mothers who pray for them, who think for
them, whose milk flows to sustain life, and
how great is the calling, how great is the
power of a righteous mother. Do we not
all praise the mother of George Washing-
ton and there are many others that can be
mentioned whose names are to be revered,
and the mothers who are here to-day will
be held in reverence and esteem as the
mothers of the coming generations of the
world. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony—“I am very glad to pre-
sent to you Mrs William Ferry, who
twenty-one years ago lived at Grand Haven,
Michigan, at the time of the great Woman
Suffrage Campaign in the state of Michigan
in 1874 at the close of which 40,000 of the
best men of the state went to the ballot-
box and voted for us, but unfortunately for
us a majority voted no. Mr. Ferry him-
self was the chairman of the Executive
Committee of the Campaign of the state at
that time and Mrs. Ferry took a great in-
terest in our cause. Mr. Ferry helped to
carry on the campaign throughout the
state, so Mrs. Ferry stands here as the rep-
resentative of a state in which this question
was defeated at the ballot-box, and I rejoice
with her that she and her husband can to-
day be residents of a state in which the
great question is triumphant. I have the
honor to introduce to you Mrs. William
Ferry formerly of Michigan, now of this
Territory. (Applause.)
REMARKS BY MRS. WILLIAM FERRY
OF PARK CITY.
	Ladies and Gentlemen: I am here to-


day in honor of Miss Anthony and for the
reverence I have had for her for many
years. In finishing my school days, not
my education for that can never be finished,
but the school days in Rochester, New
York, a friend of mine the Hon. Geo. A.
Hollister had a great admiration for Miss
Anthony; and he got me interested in her
when I was eighteen years of age,and from
that time on I have looked upon her work
and have honored her for it and have in-
terested myself and been in sympathy with
the principles that she has advocated.
(Applause.) I am not here to say what shall
be done in Utah to-day, but I am here to
say that the women all over the world
should do their very best, that they should
take upon themselves and help place upon
them the authority to do that which will
make them the best mothers, the best wo-
men and the best part of humanity. As
to what has been said this morning I am in
full sympathy, but what I have to say to
you just now is to repeat what I have said
of my respect and admiration for Miss An-
thony and for the great work that she has
done and for her colleagues in this work,
and I trust the day is coming to Utah,as I
believe it is all over the Union when in
every state there will be a Suffrage Flag,
when before the door of every home there
will be as we heard in one of the churches
yesterday, a family flag, but here in this
country that it shall represent the father
and the mother, the son and the daughter
with all the privileges that can make the
very best of their opportunities not only for
themselves but for the world around them.
I was particularly interested in that thought
which was expressed by one of the speakers
this morning, in that which particularly
belongs to women, the home, the school,
the morals, the good which is desired by
every true woman should be helped along,
and I believe that it will never be done suc-
cessfully until women have the ballot.
Applause.
	Miss Anthony:—“I want to present to you
Mrs. Bathsheba Smith whose husband was
one of the first men to speak for the wo-
men of Utah to have the ballot in the days
gone by. He was in the legislature and
did his utmost in that direction, he did per-
haps quite as much to help submit and
bring into formation many of the laws of
this Territory, as any other man and his
name is well known among the people as is
also the name of his good wife.” Applause.
	REMARKS BY MRS. BATHSHEBA SMITH.
	Ladies and Gentlemen:—l am very happy
to be here and I have listened with great
pleasure to what has been said this morn-
ing, and I rejoice in the hope that we will
soon become a state and that women will
have equal suffrage. I did not expect to
be called upon to speak as I never was a
speaker, but am a worker. I don’t care to
add many words when there are so many
able speakers here to address you, but I
will say that “I am very glad to be here.”
Applause.
	Miss Anthony: We have all got to
preach this morning ‘‘I am glad to be here”
and I hope if there is any one here who
does not get called out personally, whose
spirit is moved to say "I am glad to be
here” to understand that there is perfect
freedom to say what you wish. Mrs. Wells
knows most of the people and I see she is
bringing up another lady now, Mrs. C. E.
Allen, of Salt Lake City, you will recog-
nize the name.


