			SOCIETY.

	THE organization of women known as
National Woman’s Relief Society with
headquarters in Salt Lake City, Utah, is
both national and international in scope
and charatcer having branches in the
United States and in foreign countries.
This society though strictly charitable and
philanthropic is also educational in the best
and truest sense of the word, dealing with
the subjects that tend to the elevation and
advancement of women in all the lines of
thought and action that benefit humanity.
	The first organization of this society was
effected on the 17th, of March 1842, at the
Masonic Hall, in Nauvoo, Illinois. A
preliminary meeting of women had been
held previously at the residence of Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball at which time the mat-
ter of organizing an Association for bene-
volent purposes was considered and decided
upon. Mrs. Emma Smith was elected
President, Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney
and Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland Counselors,
Miss Eliza R. Snow, Secretary, Miss Phebe
Ann Wheeler assistant secretary, and Miss
Elivira Coules Treasurer. There were
nineteen original members including the
officers. The increase in membership dur-
ing the first two years reached 1275, the
number of names enrolled.
	When the “Mormon” people left Illinois
to journey westward to an unknown land,
the society could not operate as an organ-
ized body, and of necessity regular meet-
ing were discontinued, though the women
kept up their benevolent work, wherever
and whenever an opportunity presented it-
self, and many were in need of kindly acts
and deeds of charity, and sympathy, for
those were the days of toil and suffering, of
scarcity and hardships. There were few
gifts to bestow, but many lessons of
patience and resignation to be learned in
the school of experience.
	Early in the settlement of the Salt Lake
valley organizations of the Relief Society
were formed as a natural out-growth of the
parent society in Nauvoo, for the same
spirit and sentiment still existed, and was
soon brought into active exercise. The
first general President was Miss Eliza R.
Snow, who had been the first secretary,
and had brought with her from Nauvoo the
records of the society.
	The benefits resulting from this organiza-
tion in the new colonies, cannot be over
estimated; women doing thorough practical,


