MRS. MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.

	A LETTER from Mrs, May Wright Sew-
all, Vice-President-at-Large, of the Inter-
national Council of Women, and one of the
Cabinet of the National Council of Women
of the United States, dated Sept. 8, at
Prescott, Arizona, informs us she has been
spending the summer there with her hus-
band, who went south for his health some
time previous; though resting from her
arduous home labors, she has by no means
been idle but sowing good seed in that
locality, and has given some lectures there
and succeeded in organizing the Woman’s
Club of Prescott with thirty charter mem-
bers.
	The local papers have this to say of her
work there.
	“Mrs. May Wright Sewall’s lecture on Saturday
afternoon was quite well attended by ladies from
both Prescott and Whipple. Her subject was the
“Origin and Formation of Women’s Clubs” and
her lecture was very interesting. Mrs. Sewall is
very graceful on the lecture platform and language
proceeds from her as water from a spring, and
she held her audience spell-bound throughout
the lecture. In the matter of clubs, it may be in-
teresting to mention the fact that Mrs. Sewall
has the honor of being one of three ladies, re-
siding out of New York, who is a member of
New York’s celebrated Sorosis club. On Tues-
day afternoon at 3 o’clock she will give another
talk to ladies at K. of P. hall and will assist in the
organization of a club here.
	She has also consented to give a lecture in the
near future on the subject of “Female Suffrage,’’
a subject not entirely new, but which will no
doubt be handled in such a way by her as to
make it interesting to all who will attend.
	Mrs. Sewall is the President of the National
Council of Women of the United States, having
held that position from March, 1891, to March,
1895, and is at present secretary of foreign re-


lations in the National Council, and Vice-Presi-
dent-at-Large of the Internationl Council, of
which Her Excellency, the Countess of Aberdeen,
is President.
	Mrs. Sewall gave her Margaret Fuller
lecture to the ladies in Prescott which
must have been impressive, considering the
subject, and the remarkable presence of the
lecturer, her ease of manner and the at-
tractive power which she has with her
audience.
	Mrs. Sewall expects to speak at the Na-
tional Council Convention in Atlanta in
October on the “Functions of the Cabinet,”
she has also accepted an invitation to speak
at the Educational Congress in Atlanta in
November, her subject is “The Duty of
the School to the Public Morals and Man-
ners.” Mrs. Sewall is quite well known to
a number of Utah women though her con-
nection with suffrage work and as the
presiding officer of the National Council,
and whatever Mrs. Sewall undertakes she
does in an effective and masterful way.
She presides with great dignity, never los-
ing her presence of mind for a single
moment.


