WORK AND WAIT.

	COULD any one have imagined, a few
years ago, just what is taking place at the
present time here in Utah,especially among
the women of the Territory. History is
being made rapidly, history in which wo-
men form a prominent part. And why
not? Are they not as much concerned in
the welfare of the new state that is to be,as
men are. It concerns their homes, their
“life, liberty and pursuit of happiness.”
And not only theirs but that of their pos-
terity dearer far than one’s own life to the
mother-heart. It behooves woman at this
time to exert all her faculties, to bring out
her best thought, her ripest judgment, her
most earnest endeavor in that which will
make the new commonwealth of Utah the
most perfect government possible.
	Some things to be sure have not come up to
the expectation of women in reference to
immediate equality of suffrage, and yet one
cannot help believing even that is wisely
provided against, for new experiments are
sometimes, in fact often disastrous in gov-
ernments as well as in other things, and
after all it was not anticipated by the most
sanguine that women would vote with men,
but that if voting at all would vote separ-
ately. But surely there can be no com-
plaint as the matter stands now, women are
debarred from voting this coming election,
but it does not hinder them from working
or talking when or where it is possible to
have a voice. They may exert their ut-
most influence for the interest of the state
and especially for the ratification and adop-
tion of the Constitution which has been
framed and has gone out to the people, and
upon which the legal voters will render their

[Column 2]
decision at the November election. It is 
of no use to deplore the situation of the
question of equal suffrage, but go to and 
do all that is possible to secure statehood
and urge every man to vote for it,by reason,
by persuasion, or entreaty. The suffrage
women of Utah expect every man to do his
duty at the polls in November by voting
for statehood, and it is devoutly to be
hoped that such vigilance will be exercised
by women, as well as men, that not a vote
will be lost.
	The eyes of the world are upon Utah in
the present state of affairs, and the greatest
and noblest women are watching and
anxious to know how the tide will turn.
	If Utah comes into the union with equal 
suffrage upon her banner, what rejoicing
there will be among the women who are
laboring early and late unceasingly for the
promotion of the cause, and the freedom
of every woman from political bondage.
	One more free state, one more bright
star in the flag of the Union, and one that
means so much for human rights, the
truest type of that great boon, without
which happiness cannot be complete,
liberty, yea liberty, without the distinction
of sex, race or color.
	Woman herself must not cease her ef-
forts in her own behalf, or in behalf of her
own sex; because it must be apparent to
all, that although women may be intel-
lectually bright, vigorous and active, yet
they lack the training and discipline men
get from association, political and other-
wise, which brings them in contact with
each other, and the public at large. Wo-
men have occupied a much narrower sphere
heretofore, and necessarily their views and
opinions on questions of state, with its re-
lative departments, political economics and j
matters of serious importance will require 
time to mature. And the real method of
arriving at excellence in any of these, will
be by practice. Until women are admitted
to participation in affairs of city,county and
state, they never will utilize the knowledge
of political science they may get by careful
study and investigation. By attending
primary meetings, conventions and such
like public gatherings, they will come by
degrees to comprehend the responsibility
and advantages of the ballot and to ap-
preciate the opportunities it gives where
judiciously exercised to make better con-
ditions for humanity, and especially to
make better protection for dependent wo-
men and children not only individually
but in all public places, and institutions,
whether educational, industrial or reforma-
tory.
	Not that we think the millenium
will have come,when women have equal suf-
rage, but it will be the dawning of a bright-
er period for the whole world of mankind;
already the leaven has begun to work in
Utah and women feel the stirring of new
deas, a desire to look deeper into the science
of government, and to examine the history
of other countries and compare notes.


