EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mr. M. A. Meyendorff a Polish exile,
and patient who is sojourning in this city
for a short time, is arranging to give a lec-
ture here on Russian prisons and life in
Siberia. One reads of these terrible things
afar off, but rarely does one hear from the
exiles their own story. Mr. Meyendorff
has had an eventful life, and his lecture
will be thrilling with actual experiences; as
he has a wonderful gift of describing the
scenes through which he has passed. Mr.
Meyendorff joined the Polish insurrection
in 1863 when a mere boy and was captured
by the Russian authorities and banished for
life to Siberia, although his father
was a Polish nobleman and held a high of-
fice in the Russian service. After spend-
ing eighteen months in Siberia, young
Meyendorff was released through the in-
tercession of the United States govern-
ment, and came to America where he has
since resided. Mr. Meyendorff is genial in
conversation, has a slightly foreign ac-
cent, and a distinctively European manner
and bearing. He is certainly a man of
culture and educational attainments and
cannot fail to be attractive as a public
lecturer.
	MRS. LOUISE BOYDEN, the teacher of
elocution and Delsarte gave a recital on
Tuesday evening, September 20th in
Christiansen's Hall which was quite a suc-
cess in an artistic way in showing off her
pupils, especially the younger ones, and it
proved too how diligent and pains-taking
the teacher had been to bring them forward
in difficult parts. The renditions by some
of them were excellent and deserve special
mention. The statuesque posing by Miss


Josie Morris was particularly pleasiug; the
“Scene from Leah,” by Blanche Thomas,
was artistically given, though a very diffi-
cult undertaking for one not accustomed to
the stage. Grandma’s Story by Frankie
Young was quite a finished piece of acting,
voice, manner and style all good; the musi-
cal number by W. C. Clive “Mazurka de
Concert” a new composition given for the
first time from the manuscript, was warmly
applauded and richly deserved it, all the
parts were well taken though we have not
space to mention in detail: Mrs. Boyden in
the merchant of Venice Act. IV. Scene I.
gave the audience a good idea of her versa-
tility. Mrs. Boyden spares no pains with
her pupils and is both diligent, and clever
in her line of work and certainly deserves
public recognition.


