MRS. MARY A. BAKER TANNER.
	TO the many friends and acquaintances of Mary
R. Baker Tanner, I announce her death, which
occured in Grantsville Utah, Oct. 7th, 1894. She
was seventy years of age the 12th of March, 1894.
Although a great sufferer from asthma since
childhood, her last sickness was brief, she, being
in usual health, until two weeks previous to her
death. It would take many pages to relate the
story of the life of this energetic and good wo-
man. It is well known to all her acquaintances
with what willing hands she administered acts of
kindness to those about her.
	She has been identified with the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from an early
date, moving with her parents from her native
state (New York) to Kirtland, Ohio, she joined
the church at the age of thirteen years.
	It was at this place she first saw the prophet
Joseph Smith and declared him to be a Prophet
of God, and bore testimony of it faithfully to the
last.
	From Kirtland she moved to Illinois the winter
the Saints were driven from Missouri.
	With her parents from that place moved to

[Column 2]
Iowa, living there till the Saints were driven
from Nauvoo.
	At Council Bluffs she was united in marriage to
Elder Nathan Tanner. In 1849 she crossed the
plains, part of the time driving an ox team.
	She bore all the trials of life with great patience
and faith. Many times she has borne testimony
to the gift of healing.
	She not only did all she could for herself
spiritually, but performed the work for many of
her dead kindred, and was a faithful member of
the Relief Society.
	She was a faithful and loving wife and although
bearing no children she was a mother indeed.
Many will speak of some kind deed done, and
good counsel given, by Aunt Mary.
	Few have passed away being as well prepared
in all things. She has finished her work and lain
down to a quiet rest.
	"Happy soul thy toils are ended
	And thy trials here below
	Now with angel guides attended
	And a crown on thee bestowed."
COM.


