[Column 1]
ple, there is not a vestige of it left to mark
the spot where it was once located, save the
well, which is hidden from view by old
buildings and rubbish. Oh how sad the
thought of the present condition, compared
with that of fifty years ago. Then a thriv-
ing city, of 20,000 people, with Temple,
halls, stores, and many improvements.
To day it is estimated to have a population
of only 1,400, and a lack of enterprise in
the same proportion. Then where there
was a large city of well laid out streets,
and comfortable homes. there is now only
a few of the original buildings remaining
as land marks. The old residences are
easily discerned, by their crumbling brick
chimneys, from other buildings, built from
several of the torn down brick ones. The
streets have been plowed up and fenced in-
to large fields and planted with corn, or
grape vines, the latter being cultivated ex-
tensively, resulting in the manufacture of
much wine, which is the main export. I
was told that the majority of the inhabi-
tants are Germans, and they are making a
grand success of grape culture.
	The predominating rule and faith is Ro-
man Catholic. A few of the Americans
are carrying on a small merchandising trade
to supply what demand there is. I recog-
nized Parley P. Pratt's buildings north of
the Temple Block, and the old Horne's
Store, as also the place where Mrs. Ad-
dison Pratt's house was, where she sup-
ported her family, tailoring, while her hus-
band was on the first mission of the saints
to the Society Islands. On her sister Caro-
line Crosby's lot, is remaining only the
small stone granary, but the house on the
adjoining lot formerly owned by Johnathan
Crosby's sister, Mrs. Thompson, now dead,
is in pretty good repair. A part of the
foundation that was made for the Nauvoo
house. has been lying all these years un-
touched, save by the weather's destructive
powers, and is therefore in a wasting con-
dition.
	I visited the grave of Mrs. Emma Smith
Bidamon, and was told that it was her
request to be buried by the side of her pre-
vious husband. Joseph Smith. After Mr.
Bidamon died, he was placed at the other
side of her. Thus presupposing that both
the martyrs, are lying by her more recently
made grave. After a twenty four hours
stay at this place, we took a skiff at the
Lower Landing, and were carried across the
Mississippi River, landing at Montrose,
at 5'clock, we took the cars and arrived at
Burlington, after a three hours ride, too
late to make connections, we took rooms
near the Depot for the night. I here went
to the drug store for my brother's benefit.
	Monday June 24, we were awakened at
4 o'clock, by whistles and noise of wagons,
hauling lumber for a lumber company.
The landlady said every thing in the busi-
ness line was very dull, and young men
had to go elsewhere to get employment.
Burlington is a city of 14,000 inhabitants.
At 10, o'clock we arrived at Fremont after
a three hours ride on the cars and four
miles by carriage. We then were glad to
settle down at my niece's for the balance of
the day and night.
	Tuesday June 25th, my brother took me
home with him accross the Skunk River.
Here I remained the next four weeks visit-
ing these families. I aided my niece Amelia
in nursing one child through an attack of
measles. During this time nothing of
special note occurred until the 21st, of July

[Column 2]
while I was stopping with my brother
when there was a death in the family of
Amelia Howell, my brother's daughter's
child, Emma Jane, died at 7-30 o'clock p.
m., Sunday 21st, of pneumonia resulting
from an attack of measles. This child was
attended by their family physician. Mon-
day 22nd, 3 o'clock; I was at the funeral.
Thus ended the short life of three years, of
a lovely promising child. God gives the
rose; but with it comes the thorns. I was
here detained on account of this sickness
and death. The heat to me here was very
oppressive.
	July 23, at 3 o'clock terminated my visit
at this place, all gathered, old and young,
around the carriage as I start, for an eight
miles ride, some worrying because of my
health, and traveling alone. This includes
three visits in fifty years; on I went arriv-
ing at the railroad station Delta in due
season for a good long night's ride. Could
only get ticket to Ottawa. I arrived at
Rock Island in the night, at 4 o'clock.
After a tedious endurance of the depot ac-
commodations of a couple of hours, we pull-
ed on to Ottowa, and another weary halt,
at which time we traveled on with rapid
speed.
	Wednesday July 24th, I arrived at York-
ville, Kendall Co. Ill., here the air seemed
cool, balmy and bracing. My dispatch had
not been delivered to Solon Boomer's family;
but all the same I was made welcome, by
himself, wife, son, three daughters, and
Ma Boomer. The entire family including
hired man, and girl, were early seated at
the supper table This charming home, of
harmony, education, refinement, freedom
and ease, one grand welcome to rest, enjoy
and be enjoyed; carriages hitched at will.
The husband full of wit and humor. What
would be more delightful? Cousin Lois
was more retiring. The sound of music
hurried me to the parlor, where I found the
son Henry, a handsome trim built man,
standing full six feet, with his cornet, and
sister Jessie at the piano. Each seemed to
have their several duties, to regularly at-
tend to in the morning. Thus as promptly
was every thing accomplished, and perfect
order reigned, and all ready for the next
thing on the program. It seemed no trouble
for cousin Lois to wheel her husband's mother
out to meals at the head of the table. The old
lady has not walked for seven years, and
though now 88 years of age, her spirits are
so mellow and peaceful, and she enjoys a
rich joke as well as the youngest.
	I visited Cousin Lois's mother in her
own home, and found her happily situated,
enjoying the society of her son Harland
Barnes, whose wife has buried her last, and
only child. These two aged ladies, samples
of peace and piety, I wish the whole world
could see, and take pattern from them. I
spent several hours in reading, and convers-
ing with them on theology.
	The third family, that of Ella Barnes
Raymond, has five small children. She is
living in a rented house, waiting to locate
their means, that they have economically
saved, for their growing family. Ah! The
youngest with her love and brilliancy, won
my heart as she nestled to sleep in my
lap. I did what I could to make my visit
with my kindred a success, in this particu-
lar; that they might know when I had left,
that they had been visited by a friend. I
also visited three burying grounds, in one
obtained record of my brother Carlos's
son, and searched, until I found, in another

[Column 3]
my twin brother's remains, even to the
metal plate that had been placed on his cof-
fin, on which was inscribed, "Barnard
Stevens, died March 13th, 1857; aged 27
years." As the old cemetery is private
property, and being transferred to the new,
I have since my return, Sep. 16, 1895,
placed these remains, in the Salt Lake
Cemetery on my lot, by the side of his sister
Jane Lewis's child buried 1849.
	I had made calculations to continue my
journey, Monday Aug. 5th, but I was again
detained. I went nine miles in a carriage
to Aurora Ill. with Cousin Jessie to get her
some glasses properly fitted.
	Tuesday, Aug. 6th, Cousin Lois wished
me to wait another day and go with herself
and daughter Edith, and visit her brother
Orton Barnes, and wife, and family of six
children in Memphis, Missouri. He served
three years in the Union Army, and was
wounded in the knee. I saw him when
he was home on a furlow in 1864 5.
Apparel, trunk-packing, lunch, and prere-
quisities hurried up.
	Wednesday, Aug. 7th, we were to take
the cars three miles distant at Bristol Sta-
tion. My heart ached most to leave poor
Ma Boomer, and cousin Mabel's tears flowed
freely as our genial visit was at an end, as
we hurriedly drove by Ma Barnes, she
saluted us from the porch. Arriving at
Burlington after dark with Edith sick, I
went to the drug store for remedies. Here
we separated, I for Montrose, and they for
Memphis, where I was to join them. I
arrived at Montrose at 10 p. m., previous
to taking a furnished room, I ordered a
skiff to cross the river in the morning.
	Thursday, Aug. 8th, at 6 a. m. I was
snugly seated in the stern end of the skiff.
Crossed the Mississippi and arrived at the
house of Phineas Kimball, just in time as
he was on the eve of going to Warsaw, to
an Old Settlers Political Gathering; but he
hurriedly with his carriage located me as
desired, for the purpose of finishing as far
as possible, the busines, that I had left un-
done.
	Friday, Aug. 9th. In the morning at the
table, Ethan Kimball placed kimself and
carriage at my service, which was accepted
until 12 o'clock, and I again had occasion
for gratitude. A rest in the afternoon and
I was then driven to the Lower Landing to
meet my previously ordered skiff, at
7 o'clock p. m. I recrossed the river. As
I took my last view of the beautifully lo
cated Nauvoo, once a lovely city on a hill,
where my parents lie at rest—Imagine
Reader my thoughts! Then checking my
baggage, I started for Keokuk at 11 o'clock
p. m. I was obliged, with my satchel,
to stop in the middle of a steep pitch to get
breath, and rest to my exhausted heart.
Here I got a part of a night's rest.
	Saturday Aug. 10th, 10'clock a. m. I
arrived at Memphis Mo. Being met at the
depot, by Orton Barnes and wife. After
riding nine miles to his farm, arrived with
good appetite in time for dinner, which was
served for sixteen. About the first subject
introduced was; that they had two young
people down with the typhoid fever. The
first, was a young man, and they sent for his
sister to come and care for him, and then
she took sick. I learned by letter that she
died Monday Aug. 19th, 1895. They sent
for another sister, to come and care for both.
This was not a pleasing prospect ahead of
me, but I trusted in the All Wise Power.
	Excuse me as a Suffragist: and I will


