[Column 1]
charitable duty in an efficiently organized
capacity in every ward and settlement,
proved of material benefit in those early
times. Later on with the facilities afforded,
when the borders of civilization were ex-
tended, and colonizing in new places became
a part of the program. the Relief Society
proved a positive advantage, giving to wo-
men the contact with each other in that
social way, which was in the best sense
co-operative and produced the best results
of mutual helpfulness, without seeming de-
pendence. The material resources at that
time were very few indeed, but the spirit of
improvement mentally and spiritually was
strengthened by meeting together regularly,
and the ministration of love and tenderness
in times of hardship, privation, sickness
and sorrow incident to the conditions,
of the colonists were beyond expression in
words.
	As prosperity came to the people the
society grew accordingly, and there were
many opportunities afforded to reach out
help and assistance to the needy, and to
teach practical and economic methods to
new-comers, who arrived y[-]ar after year in
this Western land in the Rocky Mountain
region. There is not time to tell of the
growth and development of the society, but
an estimate was made of the amount ex-
panded in charities at the time of the
Centennial celebration in Philadelphia in
1876, which was about twenty years from
the time of the permanent reorganization
of the Society in Utah. The total amount
accumulated and disbursed was over ninety
thousand dollars. Under the judicious
management of Miss Snow, aided by many
efficient workers, trained and disciplined in
the same methods, a perfect system of or-
ganization was effected, beginning with
wards, from that to counties (ecclesiastically
designated Stakes of Zion) which are all
under the supervision of a Central Board.
Each of these divisions and sub-divisions
have similar organizations to the Central
Board with control of their own local af-
fairs, but make regular semi-annual reports,
as ward organizations to the stake, and an-
nual reports as stakes to the Central Board.
The outside branches not included in stakes
and those in foreign countries, report direct
to the secretary of the Central Board.
Thus it is comparatively easy to transact
any business because of the thorough and
complete system of organization.
	The approximate amount of means ex-
pended for charity and similar purposes
during the five years from 1888 to 1892,
inclusive was $90,350,25.
	The Relief Society in its several branches
owns valuable real estate, halls to meet in
stores of dry goods and fancy articles and even
groceries, and other buildings for various
purposes; some have homes for needy and
aged women, in many places the local
society owns and operates millinery and
dress-making establishments, and in some
localities the Society has live, stock sheep
and calves, and also wool and other pro-
ducts. Many have dividends in stores,
factories and other enterprises. In many
places the society has granaries where grain
is stored away against times of scarcity and
famine. Some have land planted with
mulberry trees; for the cultivation of the
silk worm is one of the industries fostered
and encouraged b the society, and it is
particularly well adapted to the climate of
Utah. These industries and establish-
ments are not carried on for personal bene-

[Column 2]
fit, but in the interests of the society, that
the poor, aged and helpless may be assisted
from the profits of these enterprises, instead
of soliciting donations from the people; in
these and various other ways the society
renders valuable aid to women, who could
not otherwise become self-sustaining, and
one rarely ever hears of a failure in any of
the enterprises, managed and conducted by
women. One of the most unique plans
contrived by women in the country places
is putting aside Sunday eggs, and using
the means thus obtained for a fund. The
following figures of a three months report
is a fair sample and not exceptional. It is
from Ephraim, Sanpete Co. Utah.
Donations in Sundries,...........$78.55
Sunday eggs,..................109.58
Cash donations,..................89.00
Apple and mulberry trees,........41.00
Means from parties...............40.00
Quilts made,....................23.00
Total..........................381.13
	On the 17th of March, 1892, the Relief
Society celebrated its Jubilee of fifty years.
This anniversary was observed in all parts
of the world where branches of the society
had been organized, including Canada,
Mexico, the Sandwich Islands, Australia,
New Zealand, Great Britain, Switzerland,
Germany, Holland, Denmark. Sweden and
Norway and other foreign places. The
most distinctive feature of the celebration
was a prayer offered at high noon in every
place where the day was kept, forming as
it were an almost complete belt, or circle of
prayer around the world. The arrange-
ments for these services were made before-
hand by correspondence with the presiding
officers in all the several countries.
	In Salt Lake City the services of the day
were held in the large Tabernacle, which
was handsomely and appropriately decorat-
ed for the occasion. The great organ was
draped with the stars and stripes, the flags
extending across the entire front, and the
floral decorations were strikingly beauti-
ful. Life-size paintings of the general
presidents of the society were conspicuous-
ly hung, so as to be seen by the entire con-
gregation, (Mrs. Emma Smith the first
president, Miss Eliza R. Snow her succes-
sor and the present presiding officer Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young) an immense key made
of flowers (everlasting) was hung with the
pictures, representing the key of knowledge,
which was turned for women when the
society was organized. The large stands
for speakers were occupied by the officers
of the society, and eminent men and wo-
men of the church, and the immense
auditorium was well filled. The exercises
were conducted by the President Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young, the Tabernacle choir, under
the leadership of Prof. Evan Stephens,
rendered choice musical selections, anthems
etc., and Professor J. Daynes accompanied
on the great organ. The character of the
speeches was mostly historical, going back
over the half century of work, recounting
some of the difficulties and obstacles en-
countered, and eulogizing the brave pioneer
women workers, who had passed away.
This was the most important meeting the
society has ever held, especially on account
of its being general in every branch of the
entire organization in all lands. The after-
noon and evening were kept as a holiday
in feasting with the poor, and in entertain-
ments of a social, literary and musical

[Column 3]
character throughout all the society in every
land and country. Reports of the interest-
ing meetings, feasts, and entertainments
were made by the local secretaries, and for-
warded to the Central Board in Salt Lake
city, so that the society has on hand a com
plete record of the Jubilee.
	There are many interesting things in
connection with the history of this society,
but there is not time to go into details,
suffice to say it has been an important
school of instruction to its members;
though the main object of the society is
the care of the needy, the sick, the helpless
and the unfortunate, to visit the widow and
the fatherless, to administer comfort and
consolation as well as temporal relief to
physical wants, to see that none are left
to suffer, and to encourge habits of industry
and economy in those who are able to do
something towards their own support, to
provide ways and means for such persons,
and give instruction if necessary to those
who through lack of training, or misfor-
tune need special attention. Also to care
for the dying and the dead, to be at the bed-
side of the lonely ones when death is near,
to robe the body neatly and properly for
burial when all is over, and to perform
those kindly deeds with tenderness and
grace. This is a part of the mission of the
women of this society, it is useless to en-
umerate all the duties, privileges and bless-
ings pertaining to this grand institution,
but many lessons of patience, long-suffer-
ing and forbearance have thus been
learned, and the higher and better quali-
ties of head and heart developed and cul-
tivated; pride, envy, jealousy and avarice
subdued, and a higher standard of human
excellence attained than could possibly
have been reached in any other way.
	In 1891, at the National Council in
Washington, D. C. the Relief Society be-
came connected with the National Council
of Women of the United Statea. This en-
titles the society to an equal standing with
all the great organizations thus federated in
the Council, giving to each and all this
broad system of representation, and of be-
coming widely known, not possible ex-
cept by united efforts.
	October 10, 1892, the society was incor-
porated under the name of the National
Woman’s Relief Society. This step had
been meditated for some time and articles
of incorproation had been prepared, for the
safer conduct and management of the tem-
poral affairs, of so large and important an
institution. Separate articles of association
have been adopted by auxiliary branches of
the society, which give each respective
society complete control of its own property,
with power to transact any business per-
taining thereto.
	The present status of the society is very
encouraging; as the people spread out in-
to new localities, more organizations are
effected, more buildings erected, and home
industries adapted to the needs of the society
and the locality are being established. One
of the notable characteristics of the women
thus organized is their practical indepen-
dence. In the regular meetings of the
society women have been for years in the
habit of speaking upon the topics of the
times, thus keeping posted upon current
events, and in this way have gained such
confidence that it is comparatively easy to
address an audience on ordinary subjects
without notes. A considerable number of
the members are widows, or single women,


depending upon their own exertions, and
the management of their own affairs, yet
they are as generous in contributing time
and material assistance, and as helpful in
suggesting ways and means of building up
the society, as women of leisure, whose
husbands provide for the household.
	The society as a whole believes in equal
suffrage, and has ever since the Legisla-
ture of the Territory extended the fran-
chise to the women of Utah in February
1870, taught and inculculated the principle
of equal political rights.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a semi-
monthly paper established in June 1872,
has been a powerful factor in aiding the
society in all its departments, publishing
regular reports, and keeping its affairs be-
fore the general public; it is also very help-
ful in historical matters of the society, and 
of woman's work in general in Utah, and 
elsewhere.
	The present officers of the society are
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young President, Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, First Vice-President, Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, Second Vice-Presi-
dent, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Third Vice-
President; Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Sec-
retary and Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer.  There are thirty-five stakes
regularly organized in this western country,
besides those in foreign lands, and on the
islands of the sea, each with the same of
ficers as the Central Board and these stakes
with separate branches in various localities
in different parts of the United States and
the world, include between five and six
hundred branches with a total membership
of about thirty thousand women. The 
value of property as a whole cannot be
calculated easily, as values change so much
in real estate, buildings, rents and interest
or profit on dividends; and grain is never
reported in any other way except in bushels.
but there is sufficient given in this sketch
to show what the society really is, and what
it stands for in the way of temporal pros-
perity, material progress, and advancement
in everything which means mental, social
and spiritual uplifting, and mutual helpful-
ness for women
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,
   	 Secretary National Woman’s Relief
	Society.


