EXTRACTS.
	HORACE MANN once said that “the
Lyceum was the People’s College.” The
great educator, whose memory we cherish,
passed away too soon to recognize the pow-
er of clubs organized by women as educa-
tors and character-builders.
	If an occasional lecture at the Lyceum
was indeed a college, then our clubs are
universities, where post-graduate courses
are obtained, and special degrees granted to
the faithful.
	It is especially difficult to write briefly
on this large subject, and also difficult to
avoid trenching upon the ground of Home
Education. To my mind, any education
which does not find its root and sustenance
in a well-ordered home is lamentably de-
fective. The Woman’s Club educates both
sexes. Every woman carries to the man
near her the influence of the club, and yet
we have in our own State women who dare
not belong to a club,because their husbands
oppose it. This ignorance and prejudice is
fast wearing away, for quite recently a
prominent business man was heard to say
“that he could not afford to permit his wife’s
membership to lapse, for the club was a
social force which affected his business.”
	The least conspicious and most retiring
member may often be a quiet tower of
strength, because she has been educated out
of weakness into a broader development,
and is capable of influencing others.
	Much of the success of the Kindergarten
movement is due to the repeated discussions
of the question in clubs. The mother
there first learned the truth and passed it
on, until public opinion was educated suf-
ficiently to accept it.
	Every theory of education must depend
largely upon women for development; they
are in the majority as teachers, and the day
will doubtless come when school superinten-
dents will be at least equally divided among
the sexes. Men find little time for detail,
little for the study of children, and they
gladly leave such matters to the mother-
hood and innate quickness of our sex. Club
women have almost invariably been selected
for supervisors or upon school committees,
as they have informed themselves concern-
ing the various methods of education in
their clubs.
	A bright woman, writing from the Far
West, says, “I was utterly forlorn when I
first wrote you. I chanced to see in an old
newspaper brought in about some goods an
item concerning a lecture on ‘food.’ We
live in a section of country where food is
abundant and money scarce. We need to
be instructed concerning the value and
nourishing properties of food, and especial-
ly concerning the diet of growing children.
Out of this desire, with your help, a club
was formed, some riding six and even ten
miles to hear a paper read, ‘a real paper.’as
they say, ‘exactly the same as the ladies in
Boston listen to.” A few months after
the formation of the club our correspon-
dent wrote: “We are more than happy for
the inspiring words sent us by Eastern
friends. You are helping us to a broader
and better education.”
	Our public schools bear testimony to the
work of women’s clubs: better school-
houses, larger grounds, sanitary plumbing,
fewer home studies, manual training, music,
cooking, drawing, physical culture,
political economy, and kindred topics were
discussed in clubs everywhere before they

[Column 2]
were known to the public. A true republic
must be founded on the principles of justice
and patriotism, so our clubs teach.
	The clubs educate women and take them
out of the ruts. They teach them to know
fhemselves, to value the sacredness of home
and motherhood, to contend against exist-
ing wrongs, to apply needed remedies, and
to adopt business methods. Thought-
sharing is the highest kind of profit-shar-
ing, and thought-sharing is the foundation
principle of all clubs. Their educating in-
fluence cannot be measured by the few facts
here presented. As the stone thrown into
the water creates endless circles and ripples,
so must our thought currents act and react
upon the lives of others. The great club
movement is to me part of the Divine evo-
lution of our time. Where it changes old
and established things it improves and en-
riches: every step forward must be measur-
ed by the rule of wisdom before taken;
every one must come to feel that this tre-
mendous educative force is far beyond all
personal pettiness or prejudice. It sur-
rounds the invalid in her sick-room; the
mother mourning for her child; the minis-
ter in his pulpit, and the orator on the plat-
form. It supplements the school-room and
college, and makes the Higher Education
truly high, aiming toward a perfected
humanity. Thus shall we pass on from
nature to immortality.
