EMERY CO. W. S. A

Minutes of the Emery County Conven
tion of the Woman Suffrage Association
held at Orangeville, Sept. 2nd, in the
Social Hall, it being beautifully decorated
under the supervision of Mrs. Rhoda E.
Robertson, President of the Local Organiza-
tion. The two most important features
being a motto composed of yellow flowers
(the suffrage color) bearing the words
“Equal Rights,” and the flag festooned
with bouquets of yellow flowersand the two
lone stars representing the two states that
have given full suffrage to women and in
one corner could be seen the point of
another arising in the horizon of the near
future.
	I must not forget to mention the gentle-
men did honor to the suffrage color the
same as the ladies, by a button-hole bouquet
of the yellow flowers, taking it altogether
the hall and the people resembled an im-
mense flower garden.  President Jane
Petersen in the chair, a short program was
well rendered by the following named per-
sons—Mrs. Mary A. Sorenson; a lecture on
“The Literal Sense” of Woman’s Suffrage
given in that lady’s easy style and wae
warmly applauded by her hearers. The
Hon. William Howard, a member of the
Constitutional Convention, gave a lecture 
on equality of sex, a splendid address.
He thoughtif woman had justice she would
not have to contend for her franchise. He
never could see why the right to vote was
given to some and withheld from others.
He said women were full of mercy and
when mercy was mixed up with justice we
would have a better form of government.
	Miss Millie Larsen gave a recitation
“Shall Women Vote.” The Hon. C. G.
Larsen gave a short address. He felt that
the ladies should vote, but if they proved
themselves as selfish as some men, he hoped
they never would get the vote. Follow-
ing was a recitation by Miss Sabina
Oliplianton “Girls Rights,” which brought
down the house.  President Jane Petersen
then introduced Judge Rhodes of Ephraim,
who gave an able address.
He thought that Woman Suffrage was no


longer a subject of discussion. He never
was exactly able to say why men opposed
Woman’s Suffrage. When it came to the
subject of Political Economy women had
the advantage of men. They were more
observant. He was sure the women of
Colorado had done their state a great ser-
vice, in the study of law. The divorce
cases that had come up before them in
ninety-nine cases out of one hundred the
men were to blame. In women casting
their ballot they should do as they feel and
not vote as their husband’s do, unless they
were convinced it was for the best. He
thought women had intellect, he knew they
had tongues. He thought it was necessary
that one or two ladies be on the school
board. The greatest opponents were the
saloon keepers they did not want women
to vote, they were afraid of her. If we
must have saloons let them be good ones.
The women should look after these saloons
that sold whiskey from the back door on
Sundays. He wished woman success in
her efforts, but he thought the time for
contending for woman’s rights, in Utah,
was past. [He afterwards ascertained
that women could not vote at the coming
election which effected the Judge very
much.] He then urged the women to
exert their energies to the greatest, that
their husbands sons and brothers should
vote for the Constitution. He could now 
see plainly the opposers of Woman Suffrage
would do all they could to defeat the con-
stitution. He had thought there was
nothing more for women to do, now he
could see a great work before them.
Benediction by Andrew Anderson. The
Convention then adjourned for three months.
Josie E. Childs, Cor. Sec.


