CONGRESSES OF WOMEN.

	THE first organization to meet in Atlanta
Georgia, will be the National Council of
Women of the United States, Mrs. Mary
Lowe Dickinson, president. This congress
will open on the 7th of October, and will
close Saturday, the 12th. Twenty organi-
zations of women compose the council, and
they represent seven hundred thousand wo-
men. The King’s Daughters will be rep-
resented on the 14th, the Georgia Woman’s
Press Association will have a three days’
session, beginning on the second of the
month and closing on the 4th. The Na-
tional-American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion, with Miss Susan B. Anthony, its great
leader, will have the 17th. The Daughters
of the American Revolution on the 18th,


and the Colonial Dames on the 19th; the
World’s Fair Board of Lady Managers,
with Mrs. Potter Palmer at their head, on
the 22nd; the National Woman’s Press As-
sociation from the 22d, to the 26th, and the
Educational Congresses from the 26th to
the 30th of October will each furnish “a
feast of reason and a flow of soul.”
Household Economics will require two
days, the 30th and 31st, in which to prove
that “There is is no place like home.”
This fact they will illustrate with a beauti-
ful cottage, which will be home of a work-
ingman and his wife and four children dur-
ing the three and a half months of the Ex-
position.
	The General Federation of Woman’s
Clubs (Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin, president)
will for the first time hold its federation
council in the South, on the 1st and 2nd of
November. The W. C. T. U. has accepted
the 5th of November, the Association for
the Advancement of Women will have the
4th, and the New England Woman’s Press
Association the 6th. For five days Mrs.
Lillian Cole Bethel will give lectures on
parliamentary law, and will conduct parlia-
mentary drills for the benefit of women of
the South.
	The International League of Press Clubs
will meet there in November, and the wo-
men members will read papers in the As-
sembly Hall on the 13th.


