LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	LADIES Meeting, held in the Fourteenth
Ward Hall, Aug. 10th, 1895. Counselor
E. J. Stevenson presiding. Meeting open-
ed by singing, "O, Say What is Truth.”
Prayer, Counselor E Webb. Continued
by singing, ”O, ye Mountains High.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved. Counselor Stevenson said this is
the season of the year when most meetings
adjourn. But we can’t afford to lose one
moment of this valuable time. What a
privilege to have remained in the courts on
high, to come forth in this day, when the
Gospel of the Son of God has been restored
in this momentous age; we should never
cease to thank God for these blessings.
Sometimes while passing through trials we
can’t see the light. But if we don’t pass
through tribulations, we couldn't fully ap-
preciate blessings, we are surrounded by
temptations, let us make the best of our
opportunity, be as towers of strength round
our children; live near to the Lord, teach
by example; we should strive to overcome
our weaknesses. One today, another to-
morrow. I wish young mothers would
meet with us. I come to be fed and to gain
strength every time I come to these meet-
ings. We learn many good things from
books, but we learn more by listening to
the experiences of others, those who have
passed through trials, and borne them
patiently; those that can acknowledge the
hand of God in all things we receive
strength by speaking one to another. All
who testify will receive a blessing. Al-
though an invalid for many years I have
been spared to accomplish a good work.
I will never cease to thank my Heavenly
Father for the blessings bestowed upon me.
May God bless us to be as haven among the
Saints. Sisters don’t let the precious time
go to waste, may the Lord bless us.
	A sister whose name was unknown, said,
“I am pleased to be here today, God has
been very good to me, the testimony of the
truth of the Gospel has been the greatest
blessing I have received. Relief Society
sisters are engaged in a grand and glorious
work.” Recited a beautiful poem on Relief
Society work.
	Another sister testified, “I know this is
the work of God, the more we strive to do
the will of the Father the more strength
we will have to overcome temptation, my
greatest desire is to endure and prove faith-
ful. I ask an interest in the prayers of my
sisters.
	Counselor Webb had enjoyed the remarks
of the previous speakers, ‘‘if we had faith
sufficient, we would not feel it a task to
perform our duties. Relief Society work
is a glorious work, in it we become well ac-
quainted with each other, we must be
charitable to each other. I often read the
Sermon on the Mount. There are so many
beautiful things to be learned from that
sermon; we are living in very peculiar
times, there are things to contend with,
never met with before. The enemies of
the Saints are gradually leading our
children away. We should be willing to
make any sacrifice for our children. Let
us be united in laboring for their welfare.
Live so that by kindness and the influence
of the spirit of charity and love, we can
draw them to us. I desire to hear my
sisters speak, let each one say a few words.
	A Sister said, I have a testimony, I want
to receive the blessing pronounced by
hearing and testifying of the goodness of

[Column 2]
God to me. Have received many blessings,
I desire to acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in all things.
	Another said, “I have a testimony to
bear, the Lord blesses me continually, I
know its a good thing to meet together
often. We gain strength by speaking one
to another. I consider these the best meet-
ings I attend, I can’t be thankful enough
for the blessing of the Gospel and want to
do all the good I can, I came here to serve
the Lord. Congregation sang, ‘‘We thank
thee O, God for a prophet.”
	Sister Nunn said,‘‘I feel I should neglect
performing my duty, if I keep my seat,
the spirit of the Lord is here. I desire to
speak of the goodness of God, every time I
have an opportunity,” asked the sisters to
pray for an afflicted sister who was in
England, who was very desirous to gather
with the Saints, but being very ill was un-
able to come.
	Sister Julia C. Howe hoped to be im-
pressed with the spirit of the Lord, ‘‘It re-
quires effort to come here this warm weather,
those who come certainly have a testimony;
there is a spirit of peace in the Gospel that
cannot be understood by those not of us,
we enjoy this new birth. We have no de-
sire to honor our enemies, the Gospel
teaches us to do good to all, my family
sometimes say to me, 'Ma you are too re-
ligious,’ we should take our children to fast
meeting, let them pay their tithes and of-
ferings, show them the right way. It will
make an impression that will remain with
them, there are practical duties, I was early
taught charity and truthfulness, these are
principles our children should understand
and cultivate.” ‘‘Redeemer of Israel,”
was sung by the congregation.
	“Sister Alder, “May the spirit of the
Lord improve me. It is those who are
weak that need to be fed. All that is
necessary is to do the will of the Father
and receive the blessings promised, those
who are obedient are the ones worthy of
the blessing, we can’t expect blessings
without sacrifice; good and evil are placed
before us, will we accept the offer of the
world, or be faithful and receive the bless-
ings of the world, or be faithful and re-
cord the blessing of the Father? When we
left our home in the other world, we no
doubt promised the Father we would re-
turn. As long as we are obedient, He can
draw us back to him, we can feel the in-
fluence of those, who live for this world,
the other life may come at any moment,
we can’t wait till we are old to serve the
Lord; if mothers will reason with their
children, we can always lead them. We
must walk in the straight and narrow way,
if we hope to find the home of Father and
Mother in the celestial world; we won’t
be satisfied if we don’t get back; the Father
will not compel us. But will hold out his
hand and lead us back, so should we lead
our children, that all may find the straight
and narrow way, is my prayer.”
	Sister Steel testified she had known for
forty years that this Gospel was true “My
desire is to be faithful, have passed through
trials, but never one that did not bring a
blessing.”
	Several sisters bore testimonies, all were
desirous of doing good and remaining faith-
ful spoke of the good influence present.
Counselor E. J. Stevenson made closing re-
marks. Thought all had been well repaid
for coming to meeting. Concluded by
singing and benediction.
