OCTOBER.

THE woods and the fields and the golden grain
Of the mellow and brown October,
And the purple hills, and the furrowed plain,
Bring the days so sad and so sober;
Yet the sigh and moan of the falling leaf,
To the pensive heart is a sweet relief.

The sunset is grand in its flaming red,
Lighting the hills with a wondrous glow;
Though the beauty of summer days has fled,
And the autumn winds begin to blow;
The frost has nipped the flow’rets fair,
That we nursed and tended with so much care.

The beautiful vines that climbed so high,
And hung so graceful on wall and tow’r,
Are changing their colors, for ere they die,
They bloom as bright as the gayest flower;
And we gaze and wonder, so proud they seem
While passing away like a summer dream.

On the mountain side and hills are seen
The blazing sumach and maples red,
And a host of trees in their brilliant sheen,
Shimmer above where the flow’rs lie dead;
And a plaintive voice in the sobbing trees,
Mingles its tones with the passing breeze.

And what remaineth to tell the story
Of the radiant flowers and summer days,
When the earth seem’d crown’d in robes of glory,
And the song of nature like hymn of praise,
Trembled along the verdant land
And echoed afar on the ocean strand?

Why the harvest rich in its golden sheaves,
And fruits the garden and orchards bring;
And the lesson taught by the falling leaves,
That will live again in the breath of Spring;
And though the days are so sad and sober,
There’s beauty and grace in brown October.
E. B. W.


MISS HELEN A. WHITTIER is to repre-
sent at Atlanta, at Gov. Greenhalge’s in-
stance, the Colonial Committee of Mas-
sachusetts women who have sent a rich
collection of relics and souvenirs of our
colonial days. Miss Whittier has for some
years been the proprietor and active mana-
ger of a large cotton mill at Lowell—the
well-known Whittier Cotton Factory. She
is building a new mill at the South, and in-
tends that the product of her Southern mill
shall be of the coarser and cheaper fabrics,
which can be made there to good advantage,
with inferior help, while the head looms in
Massachusetts are exclusively occupied
with the finer grades of manufacture.


