STATEHOOD FIRST.

	ONE cannot help seeing and realizing
that these are very peculiar times, and that
the events now transpiring are significant of
the future, and are of the deepest interest
at the present, to all thinking men and wo-
men.
	The people of Utah are confronted by
problems and questions comparatively new
to them, and which are of the utmost im-
portance. Such changes have been
wrought within the last few years as were
"never dreamed of in our philosophy," to say
the least; however these conditions must be
met and carefully considered, and all rela-
tive matters adjusted for the best good of
the whole people, in the wisest manner and
by the most judicious methods. Every one
who loves Utah, who believes in the great
future that awaits the new state, with its
varied and abundant resources, its thrifty
and conservative people, must feel the deep-
est anxiety in the adjustment of all that
seems likely to hinder her material pros-
perity or her national importance. In-
dividual prejudices or those differences of
opinion which grow out of partisanship
ought not to stand in the way of progress
for a moment. Statehood first and other
things of minor importance afterwards. In
this connection the writer cannot help re-
gretting that statehood or the adoption of
the Constitution was not made a separate
election; but be that as it may as a matter
of opinion; the situation must be accepted
and arguments pro and con are of no
avail now.
	Stand firm and steadfast for statehood
should be the watchword, in the present
and every woman should see, that every
man does his duty at the polls, in this
respect at the coming election, as she can-
not vote herself.
	Statehood obtained many other things
may come up afterwards which it will be
comparatively easy to settle satisfactorily,
and therefore it seems now the imperative
duty of every person to use the utmost ex-
ertion and best endeavors to obtain such
political freedom as is accorded to all
citizens of sovereign states in this great
Republic.
	Women should take into consideration
too that statehood once gained they stand
equal with man in political importance,
and their opinions and views will have
some weight in the body politic thereafter.
	It is all so different since the adverse
decision of the Supreme Court of Utah on
the question of equal suffrage, and women

[Column 2]
are working at a great disadvantage, but
patience must be called into active exercise,
and women should stand for the best and
work with zeal worthy of the great cause
even if it is not agreeable to be pronounced
in their opinions and efforts; in view of a
great good to be achieved for the common-
wealth of Utah.
	Women in Utah should be as brave and
as patriotic as the women of any other
period of great importance, we reverence
the women of the revolutionary period,
why then when there is a grand opportunity
do not women come to the front and work
for that which will give them a similar
heritage to bequeathe to their children. It
is a patriotic duty not only to Utah but to
the whole nation to work for statehood,
because of the glory of the Republic which
becomes greater and more powerful with
each new state added to its number. Aside
from glory, or honor, women should take
such part in affairs relating to government,
especially the home department as will
have a moral tendency to its uplifting to a
higher standard. There are so many seri-
ous questions involved, which women are
well calculated to modify and to prescribe
for, and bring into the realm of politics
another element which may and necessarily
would effect a great change for the better.
In contemplating the conditions at the
present time one cannot help feeling there
should be a strong and determined effort
made to obtain statehood, that now is the
time and there is little time left to work in
before the election in November. Every
woman has some influence she can use in
this direction, and she should not lose her
opportunity.


