[Column 1]
tell you what Cousin Orton Barnes said,
"This wife, I, and five daughters and one
son, pull together; hence our success, with
twenty thousand dollars in the bank; and
hundreds of acres, of well cultivated land,
unencumbered with mortgages.” He also
like his brother Harlan is filling many
positions of public trust. He is also called
Dea. Barnes as was his father before him. His
piano, organ, and folding doors opening in-
to his three parlors, show that city talent
and education was being introduced into
the farm life.
	A great variety of tropical plants were
all around the house. Missouri is a corn
state, but here in the northern part some-
thing else is raised. To work seemed a
necessary appendage to this home; with so
many sick, and so many to eat, baking,
washing, churning, milking, ice-cream
making, yes even to riding the reaper.
So many girls, and but one boy. They
all seemed so well qualified to fill each
place, as it came along. One said "she
could run a farm as well as father." I
only got a glimpse of the work on this
mammoth farm, in the two rides; over the
hills, and hollows, seeing tenant houses,
and barns. Among the rest, while there,
a herd of cattle was bought, and turned in-
to a large pasture to use up the grass.
Cousin Orton said that his land would av-
erage from twenty, to forty dollars per
acre. Says I “You, with your varicose
veins, had better ride, and let some one
else work.” He said his son was going to
attend the farm, and the rest were going to
Memphis to finish their education, in the
High Schools.
	Monday Aug. 12, 8 o’clock a. m. I left
Cousin Lois and her brother Orton’s family
for Memphis. I got a ticket to Kansas City,
Kansas. Going east to Medill, at 12 a. m.
waited for connection. At 2 p. m. started
west to Kansas City, arriving in the night.
	Here I tried to use my excursion ticket,
by getting a lay off at Newton Kansas;
but the cash was what they required “six-
teen to one.” Here the immense amount
of travel required much care by the in-
dividual, as well as several policemen, that
each should at the proper time, get upon the
right car. Of course, the inclining cushioned
seat was nice, which I did not always have,
but I was not comfortable; yet, very thank-
ful that the rest were asleep, so that I
could walk the aisle. In traveling one
comes in contact with many opposing con-
ditions, but a little suavity helps to modify
and make many friends.
	It is a long road through Missouri, and
Kansas, with but little stay between.
	Tuesday Aug. 13th, 6 o’clock a. m., I
arrived at Newton. My mail which I sent
the day before I left Memphis came the day
after I did. What was the matter—No sis-
ter here—What was I to do? I enquired
after the engineer Trouslot.  I was directed
to the place by the depot policeman, who
said “You will see the new roof.” The
house had been torn a few days before by a
cyclone which I had just escaped by my de-
tention. I found the engineer asleep, as
also the rest of the family, save the hired
girl. Of course it would not be right to
wake an engineer, to have an early break-
fast; so, about half past nine o’clock, all
including my sister Amelia Trouslot, dined
together. How long could I stay? And
how much space have I left to tell it? Time
was pressing, and space is short.
	Julius Trouslot, and wife Lettie; welcomed

[Column 2]
me to their home, and set their table with
the luxuries of the land. His two sons,
and daughter, were furnished with a piano,
and school facilities; although yet young,
the eldest son, bid fair to equal the best.
The children appeared kind and affectionate
to their step-mother, and parents. His
wife, reminded me so much of my Aunt
Sarah Field—intelligent, and consistent.
I saw but little of him, he was off with his
engine till late at night, and slept late each
morning.
	My sister is very feeble; her wearied
face gave me pain, yet she works all the
time she is able. She feels she must be
employed; as she is skillful with the needle.
I had visited with her twice at my home,
since I had others of my kindred, and the
heat was so oppressive, I felt I must hurry
on.
	My sister writes that Aug. Monday 19,
after I left; their house was visited with a
terrific hail storm. The hail, measuring
five and six inches, broke all the glass in
her north window, into small particles and
scattered it all over the floor; piling up a
foot deep under the window outside. Strip-
ping the leaves from all the trees, and
ruining her plants and beautiful foliage.
She further informed me that Eugene had
laid off from his engine Sept. 9th, as there
were so many washouts, that Eastern trains
could not travel. Was not I favored?
	Thursday Aug. 15th, p. m. I started for
Colorado Springs. Not until now was I
able to use my excursion ticket, on my re-
turn; again checking my luggage, and
parting with my Sister Amelia, at the de-
pot who feared that we should not meet
again. My attention was attracted all the
way through Missouri and Arkansas, to the
almost exclusive cultivation of corn.
Corn! Corn! Johny-cake; and Corn! Noth-
ing else seemed to be raised.
	Friday Aug. 16th, at 8-30 a. m. I ar-
rived at Colorado Springs; very weary.
After considerable confusion and delay, I
got a lay off on my ticket for this place,
and Salida. Here my sister’s son, Rollin
Burdett Trouslot, met me at the depot. At
10 o’clock a. m. I arrived at his rented
house, and for the first time, saw his wife
and their one year old baby boy, named
Rollin Cunnabell Trouslot. Well they
may be proud of him, a picture of health
and beauty. The father is now full of care,
and anxiety, at work as General Manager
of the Colorado Automatic Telephone Co.,
hence his time is fully occupied. I gave
Satnrday up to rest.
(To Be Continued.)


