tion that the qualification of women to vote
in November next would be passed upon
had deepened almost to a feeling of cer-
tainty. At 2:20 the Chief Justice and As-
sociate Justices Bartch and King entered
the room.

	In the case of Sarah E. Anderson vs
Charles Tyree, involving the question of
women voting, Chief Justice Merritt said
that Judge Bartch and himself had arrived
at a conclusion, Judge King dissenting on
the subject. Mrs. Anderson had asked
that her name be placed on the registration
list. Judge Merritt said the Edmunds-
Tucker law had not been repealed, and
would remain effective till statehood was
achieved. Section 2 of the enabling act
had extended the franchise among males,
but had not referred to females. To allow
females to vote would be in conflict with
the act, and was forbidden. There had
been stress laid on the fourth section of the
enabling act, where the “qualified voters
of the proposed State” were authorized to
vote. In his view these qualified voters
were those qualified under existing laws
and the enabling act. There had been no
intention on the part of the Constitutional
Convention to allow women to vote at the
first election, in November next, but to al-
low them to vote thereafter. This was
clearly shown in section II of the schedule
of the Constitution. Judge Merritt said
he would file a written opinion, reversing
the judgment of the lower court.
	Judge King said he was unable to con-
sent to any of the views of the occasion.
He regarded them as utterly repugnant to
the provisions of the enabling act and of
the Constitution. He regarded that the
Edmunds-Tucker act was not a prohibition
of women voting on the Constitution; he
considered the view of the majority of the
court as absolutely wrong. He did not be-
lieve the purpose of the Edmunds-Tucker
act was to have any effect upon voters for
State officers or on the Constitution. If he
had been, it was superceded by the enabling
act. That act had permitted a disfranchised
class to vote for delegates to the Conven-
tion and on the Constitution, being an en-
largement of the franchise. At the elec-
tion for delegates, only males could vote,
but unquestionably Congress delegated to
the Constitutional Convention the power of
prescribing the electorate at the first elec-
tion for State officers and on the Constitu-
tion. That was a power which the people
of the State alone had the right to exercise.
The proposed voters of the State, Judge
King thought, were those who were en-
franchised by the Constitution, including
males and females. It was the province of
the Constitution-makers to define the elec-
torate, and they had done so, classifying
men and women as citizens. He regarded
as an absurdity the ruling that women
were disfranchised, which ruling outraged
every principle of construction, and was

[Column 2]
wrong. He regarded the provision in sec-
tion II of the schedule in the Constitution
as repugnant to article 4, if it was to be
taken as a restriction. However, he would
not take it as such restriction, but merely
to define that such persons should vote.
To say that the women should be dis-
franchised at this election he regarded as
a wrong and an outrage.
	Judge Bartch said he concurred in the
opinion of the chief justice, and as to the
Edmunds-Tucker act, if it was repealed
for the purpose of the enabling act, it was
repealed for all purposes. He did not be-
lieve the Edmunds-Tucker act was repealed
at all. In this special case, the franchise
was extended, but all the acts remained in
force, and if the Constitution failed, then
the Edmunds-Tucker act remained in
force.—Ex.


