[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: A SAD OCCURRENCE. | Author: Unknown]

A SAD OCCURRENCE.

Dear Sister Wells:
	WE are called upon to record a terrible
calamity that has befallen our little colony
in the sudden and dreadful death of our be-
loved sister, Agnes A. McDonald, wife of
Patriarch Alexander F. McDonald, who was
ruthlessly murdered by Mexicans on the
23rd of February last.
	Quite a number of settlers had gone to
Colonia Juarez, a distance of forty miles, to
attend the quarterly conference. She was
the post mistress of our colony and also
kept a small store, and it is supposed this
was what induced the wretches to commit
the horrible deed. She was a great deal of
the time the only occupant of the house,
though her son James lived just across the
street and other neighbors lived near.
	From the appearance of things the
wretches must have been watching her un-
til she retired, when crushing the window
in with an ax they leaped in, and from the
position she was found in it is supposed on
hearing the crash she sprang for the gun
(which she always kept hanging by the
bed) when the villians seizing her, threw
her back upon the bed and cruelly choked
her to death, then placed a  pillow over her
face and proceeded to go through every-
thing in the house and store room, taking
bolts of cloth, ready made shirts, overalls,
jumpers etc., and finding the box in which
she kept the cash, it being locked they took
it with them. In this position she was
found the next morning by her daughter in-
law who called her name repeatedly, and
received no answer. She went a little way
from the house to the cellar where they kept
vegetables, then returned and called again;
receiving no answer she tried the door, it
yielded. On looking in she saw everything
in confusion in the entry. She then passed
into the bedroom where the contents of
trunks, boxes and drawers lay strewed pro-
miscuously over the floor and glass all over
the room. She then summoned up all her
courage and went to the bed, where she
found the poor unfortunate woman with her
feet hanging from the bed and the cover
thrown over her body, and the pillow over
her face. To say that poor Ettie was para-
lyzed for the moment would be poorly ex-
pressing it. She then ran and gave the
alarm.
	The most active of the villians is sup-
posed to be a Mexican who a short time ago
had been working for them, for he knew
well the situation of the house and sur-
roundings, and just where she kept every-
thing. It seems that the deed was commited
in the early part of the night, as they seemed
to have taken their time in ransacking the
house and then rode leisurely away.
	Brother Peas who was hauling lumber
and was camping about three miles north of
here, heard a disturbance among his animals
and looking up to learn the cause saw four
horsemen riding by. It being very dark he
could not tell who they were, but supposed
they were settlers from the Colonies. In
the morning on looking for his harness he
missed a very valuable large horse, but
found the hobbles in the road where they
seemed to have been dropped.
	Morning found the settlers in pursuit of
the murderers and learning of the dreadful
deed Brother Peas very naturally concluded
that they were the thieves and he too joined
in the pursuit. They tracked the rascals by
the tracks made by the large horse, they

[Column 2]
went down the mountain road, passing
lumber teams, horsemen etc., from whom
they gained some information, until they
reached the Casas Grandes river where they
found the horses the rascals had been riding
and packing, including the large horse.
The officers stationed guards at every point
and had every house searched in and around
the city of Casas Grandes. We earnestly
pray that the officers will succeed in captur-
ing the assassins and secure their punish-
ment.
	Sister Agnes was born in Glasgow, Lan-
arkshire, Scotland, Sep. 8, 1838, her par-
ents were Alexander and Janette Aird. She
emigrated to Utah in 1864, crossed the
plains in ox teams and settled in Salt Lake
City. In 1866 she became the wife of
Alexander F. McDonald who is well known
throughout Utah, Arizona and Old Mexico.
She then moved to Provo, thence to St.
George, Utah, thence to Mesa City, Arizona,
and thence to Colonia, Juarez, Mexico,
where she resided until 1895, when she
came to this place where as in former places
she has lived, she has done a great work
and gained the good will of all who knew
her. On January 5, 1896, she was chosen
president of the Relief Society, which posi-
tion [-]he has ably filled, showing her sterl-
ing worth and qualifications to fill the
position.
	Her funeral services were held at 10 a.
m. Friday Feb. 25. The speakers were
Patriarch Henry Lunt, James Jensen,
Bishop George W. Hardy, B. L. Johnson
and L. T. Whetten, who gave good instruc-
tion and words of encouragment. Her re-
mains were then placed on a bier and borne
by eight brothers holding the priesthood,
followed by a procession of carriages, wag-
ons and horsemen.
	The sawmills, shinglemills and all kinds
of labor were suspended and a goodly num-
ber of brethren and sisters came from
Pacheco to attend the services, showing re-
spect and sympathy to our beloved sister
and for her devoted husband and children:
the former being absent on very important
business in El Paso, Texas, was not able to
get here in time for the funeral.
PHEBE I. ALLRED, (Cor.)
	Colonia, Chihuahua, Mexico Feb. 26.


