[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: A RAMBLING LETTER. | Author: Unknown]

A RAMBLING LETTER.

	WINTER is beginning to wane and the
farmers are commencing to prepare for seed
time. The school land is in the market,
and our friends and relatives are coming
here to make their homes and fortunes in
this land of “Uncle Sam.” The boom-
ers land is all that seems to be lying idle
now; perhaps when all the rest is improved
this will sell to someone who needs a home.
	We had a good attendance at our Relief
Society conference, which was held at Idaho
Falls on the 13th of last month. The house
was comfortably filled, especially in the
afternoon, although it was blowing a
very keen wind from the south. The new
meeting house is a very nice edifice and
does credit to the ward. I hope we will be
as successful at Willow Creek. We received
some good instructions from the presidency
of the Stake, also from Sister Bennett and
counselors, our lady presidency of the Stake
of Bingham. Our young people are looking
forward to a treat, their conference coming
on the 16th of this month. We are very
proud of this Association. Our officers both
of the Stake and of the ward are efficient in
their abilities and energy. We parents are
glad to see the young people growing up to
be useful and trying to learn the principles
of the Gospel, which they do when they

[Column 2]
are interested in their Mutual Improvement
Associations. We rejoice that we are in
possession of a religion that will make a
happy people.
	The District Court is in session at this
time, and as usual divorces are being called
for and granted. It is alarming, I think,
that so many divorces seem to be needed.
I hope that our young people will, and I
believe they do, appreciate the plain counsel
they are getting; truly the ax is being laid
at the root of the tree. I believe one cause
why so much petty jealousy and unpleasant-
ness arises in so many families commences
through lack of confidence in one another;
and why this lack of confidence ? If we
would trace it back sometimes we would find
it was because of undue liberty before mar-
riage; and therefore lack of confidence in
one another leads to disrespect and disre-
spect to hate, hence the only way they can
see out is to get divorced, and often this is
“jumping out of the frying pan into the
fire.”
	Are we profiting by the many sermons
we hear? A woman who was born in the
Church but had married into an apostate
family, said to me one day that she could
see little difference in church going people
or in their children who attended Sabbath
School, and those who did not; she failed to
see any difference in those who prayed or
those that were taught to pray, and those
who did not. Her children, she said, were
just as good as anybody’s, and they did not
pray. I told her that we who attended
meetings and prayed did not profess to be
perfect., that the Church was a school and
some of us are very dull and slow to learn
it is true, and profit very little by attending
meetings perhaps; but there are two natures
in mankind, human and divine: “To err is
human; to forgive divine.” Those who
pray cultivate the divine nature, they can
forgive. I said to her “You are not happy
when you treasure up some trifle which
you imagine is so bad that a neighbor or
neighbor’s child has done or said. You
may sometimes forgive one who believes as
you do, but one who is trying to be a Saint
you cannot forgive, you do not seek the
spirit of forgiveness.” She said, “Well I
am satisfied, I would not have my children
blessed nor baptized, because I will not
allow religion to interfere when their father
does not believe in it. He is a good pro-
vider and that is all I want.” “Well,” I
said, “we will not enjoy this life always
and we must prepare for an eternity. I
want my children to go to Sabbath School,
also to be baptized and confirmed, that they
may be able to cultivate, if they are dili-
gent, the higher nature, this is the object,
I believe, of all religious meetings whether
of individuals, associations, Sabbath School
meetings or meetings of worship; they are
for the cultivation of our higher natures. If
the partakers of all these benefits are not
any better for them it is not the fault of the
Church nor the teachers in the Church, but
those who are idle.”
	That we may still work for the building
up of the kingdom is the desire of
						GRANDMA.
	Willow Creek, Bingham, Idaho.


