[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: M. C. WOODS. | Author: Unknown]

M. C. WOODS.
	"OLD songs are best; how sweet to hear
	The strains to home and memory dear"

	The story of some of our old songs may
give them a new and greater interest and
bring us into more sympathetic feeling with
the authors.
	I have selected a few from among the
many which have sung their way into the
hearts of the people; for many of them are
known the wide world over. Some of the
authors have won immortal fame through a
moment of inspiration; while others have
given a lifetime of thought and suffering to
the compositions that have brought them
fame and honor.
	As an example of the inspiration of the
hour we have the "Battle Hymn of the
Republic" by Julia Ward Howe, who, I
once heard say, "felt that she was not re-
sponsible for the song, for it was born
under the inspiration of the time and hour."
	This famous hymn was written in Dec-
ember 1861, in the city of Washington.
One night after a day of great excitement
when she had been listening to the strains
of martial music all day and watching the
soldiers marching by, she went to bed with
the strains of "John Brown's Body" ring-
ing in her ears; she could not sleep and
found herself without effort putting new
words to the tune: line by line the poem

[Column 2]
evolved itself. She must have been a very
orderly woman, for rising quickly she found
paper and pencil and in the absolute dark-
ness of the night put the words on paper
without seeing what she wrote; and this
was the birth of "Mine eyes have seen the
glory of the coming of the Lord."
	None of our national airs are more dra-
matic in their origin than "The Star Spang-
led Banner" which it has always seemed to
me should be our national Hymn. At the
time of the attack on Fort McHenry, made
by Admiral Cockburn Sep. 18. 1814,
Francis Scott Wey was held a prisoner in
a little boat moored to the commanders
vessel; through the whole day and night
exposed to the fire from the shore, he
watched the flag on the Fort, and at break
of day on the 14th he saw it waving, "our
flag was still there." Then taking an old
letter from his pocket and using a barrel
head for a table, he wrote at fever heat the
poem which he called "The Defense of
Fort McHenry." It was set to the music
of "Anacreon in Heaven," an opera in two
acts by Cherubine. In 1832 on a dismal
day in February while looking over some
German music books, Dr. Samuel F. Smith
found a tune which from its simple and
natural movement seemed particularly suited
to childrens' voices, a subject he was then
greatly interested in. He noted it as hav-
ing a patriotic swing and felt inspired on
the spot to write a patriotic hymn of his
own, which he did in just half an hour's
time. He did not know at the time that
the tune he adapted to his hymn "My
Country 'tis of Thee," was the national
British anthem "God save the Queen."
	"God save the King" (or Queen) has,
by the way, been the subject of endless
discussion. It is said by some, in the be-
ginning to have been a Jacobite song re-
ferring to James II., "The King over the
water." The words "Send him victorious,"
seem to imply an absent king not the one
already in England but one far away, to
whom the singers were loyal in his evil
fortune. It is believed to have been written
by Henry Corey, who lived in six reigns
and who also wrote "Sally in our Alley."
	The French national anthem, "La Mar-
sellaise," which is ringing full of patriotic
frenzy, was written words and music in a
single night and won for its author literary
immortality. The author who was Rouget
de Lisle, a young officer of engineers at
Strasburg in 1792, was asked by Deitrick
the mayor of the town to write a martial
song to be sung on the departure of six
hundred volunteers to the army of the
Rhine. Lisle composed the song that night
in a fervor of feeling, music and words at
the same time; sometimes the words came
first, sometimes the music; but he wrote
nothing. In the morning the chant came
to him like the echo of a dream and he
wrote it down, words and music and car-
ried to it Deitrick. In an hour the listening
assemblage knew the song of the nation
was born.
	Many nations claim "Yankee Doodle,"—
In the time of Charles I., it was known in


[Column 1]
England as “Nankee Doodle,”—and the
Hollanders had the same air to a song called
“Yanker Dudel,”—the French claim it as
an old vintage song,—the Hungarians as a
native air,—the Biscayans as the ancient
music of the native sword dance. In June
1755, the regimental surgeon under Brad-
dock thought he’d play a joke on the rag-
ged, tattered Continentals, by palming off
this song of the time of Cromwell, on the
colonial soldiers as the latest martial music;
the tune at once caught the popular fancy;
but later the tables were turned and the
joke was on the other side, when the Conti-
nental band played “Yankee Doodle” as
Lord, Cornwallis marched out, after sur-
rendering his army, his sword and the
English colonies to the “Yankees.”
	In 1798 when Congress in session at
Philadelphia was debating what attitude to
assume in the struggle between France and
England, party feeling was intense and the
very air was at white heat with enthusiastic
patriotism. A young man who was a
singer at the Theatre in Philadelphia came
to his friend Joseph Hopkinson and begged
him to write a patriotic song adapted to the,
then, very popular music of the “President’s
March,” saying he knew it would save the
day. The following afternoon the song
“Hail Columbia” was ready and was ar-
ranged by a member of the orchestra to the
music known then as the “President’s
March.” It was duly and well advertised,
the house was packed and the song was en-
cored amid the wildest enthusiasm. It has
since been adopted by common consent as
the national anthem of America.
	Among the war songs none is a greater
favorite than “Marching Through Georgia.”
It is often called, and appropriately I think,
the “American Marseillaise.” It was 
written in 1865, by Henry C. Work, of
Chicago, a printer and remarkable song
writer: he often composed his songs at the
case as he set up type; and if he had access
to music type, the music also, the piece
seldom needing more than one or two alter-
ations. “Marching Through Georgia”
was written thus.
	Without doubt; “The Girl I Left Behind
Me” is of Irish origin. Neither author nor
date are certain but it is supposed to have
been written in 1758. It is the tune play-
ed by every man-of-war weighing anchor,
and regiments leaving a town where they
have been stationed always give this gal-
lant parting to the ladies. It is said to be
the most popular air among all soldiers and
sailors.
	But the marching song of the Nation is
“John Brown’s Body,” and it has a pecu-
liar history. When in 1859 John Brown
was hanged in Charlestown, Virginia, the
boys of Boston paraded the streets sing-
ing a monotonous chant, the burden of
which was “Go tell John Anderson John
Brown’s dead.” A year or so later Thane
Miller heard the melody of “John Brown’s
Body” in a colored church in Charleston,
South Carolina, and introduced it at a Y.
M. C. Association convention at Albany,
New York. James E. Greenwich, an
organist of Charleston Mass., fitted this
air to the first stanza of the present song.
It became a popular favorite and Charles S.
Hall wrote additional verses. Walter
Kittedge was drafted into the army in
1862, and while preparing to go to the
front he wrote the words and music in a few
minutes. Hundreds of thousands of copies
of this song have been sold.

[Column 2]
“Old songs are best,” writes one of the
poets: be that as it may, we know some old
songs are ever beautiful and bonny; and
“Annie Laurie” was ever and always will
be a favorite. It was a love poem address-
ed by William Douglas to the eldest daugh- 
ter of Sir Robert Laurie of Maxwelton; but
unfortunately this sweet poem so full of
delicate flattery failed to touch Miss Annie’s
heart, for she later became Mrs. Ferguson.
The music to which it is now sung is the
composition of Lady John Scott. 
	Robert Burns wrote only the second and
third stanzas of “Auld Lang Syne,”
though he retouched them all, there were
three earlier versions. The air to which it
is sung is an old Lowland melody, and
was selected by Mr. George Thompson.
	‘Comin’ thro’ the Rye” is another old
Scotch song retouched by Burns; it refers to
the fording of the little river Rye, when it
was the custom of the lads to exact a toll of
kisses from the lasses they met on the step-
ping stones in crossing over.
	For fifty years the authorship of “Old
Robin Gray” was a secret limited to the family
the one who wrote it, Lady Anna Lindsay,
she wrote ballads to wile away weary, and
lonely hours. Robin was a herdsman on
her father’s estate.
	“Rory O’ More” was written by Samuel
Lover as a protest against the coarseness of
the ordinary Irish song, full of hurra’s and
whack fol de rols. At a social gathering he
expressed his disgust and was asked taunt-
ingly if he could do better. “Rory
O’More” was the answer to the taunt.
	Perhaps in the whole range of songs, old
and new, none is more popular than that
sweet and plaintive air “Robin Adair.”
The real Robin in whose honor the words
were written was a native of County Wick-
low, Ireland, and a descendant of the Des-
mond Fitz Geralds, the mighty Geraldines.
His father was made a Knight Baronet after
the battle of Boyne. While Robin (or
Robert) was studying medicine in Dublin
he got in some scrape and having little
money and few friends, he thought the best
way out of it was to go away; so he set out
on foot for London. The roads were in a
terrible condition and he had not gone far
when he came upon a carriage which had
been overturned. The owner and occupant
of the vehicle, a fashionable young lady,
was slightly hurt and greatly alarmed.
Adair at once offered his services, attended
the lady’s hurt, helped to right the carriage
and was invited by the lady to take a seat
in it, as her protector. Arriving in Lon-
don she presented him with a fee of a hun-
dred guineas and invited him to come after
to the house. Robin Adair was wise and
energetic; he studied assiduously and soon
with the assistance of his patroness acquired
a good practice at the best end of town. He
was frequently at dances given by this
young lady and others, and one night at a
party found that his partner was the second
daughter of the Earl of Albermarle, Lady
Caroline Keppel. It was a case of mutual
love at first sight. Her kinsfolk were
stupified with amazement and she was
soon sent abroad to be cured of her folly,
but without avail, and she fell very ill.
About 1750 when at Bath for her health,
she wrote the verses now so popular and
adapted them to the air of “Eileen Aroon,”
which doubtless Robin had often sung to
her. At last the separation from Adair and
the importunities of her relatives caused
her to become so ill that the doctors des-

[Column 3]
paired of her life and finally the union of
the pair was consented to. 
	Shortly after their marriage Adair was
appointed Inspector General of Military
Hospitals, and later made Surgeon General,
Kings’ Sergeant and Surgeon of Chelsea
Hospital. Good fortune did not spoil him
and he worked hard at his profession. He
treated the Duke of Glouscester so success-
fully that the king offered to make him a
Baronet, but he declined the honor. Adored
and admired by all who knew him he lived
to the age of eighty and died lamented
most deeply. Lady Caroline died rather
early and her husband, except when ob-
liged on state occasions to put on a court
costume, wore mourning for his love till he
died in 1790. He was buried with her in
the family vault. Their only son, the
Right Hon. Sir Robert Adair, had a bril-
liant career as a diplomatist and died in
1855.
	“The Last Rose of Summer” one of the
peerless Patti’s favorite songs, was among
the most popular of Thomas Moore’s Irish
melodies. The air, which is a very old one,
formerly known as the “Groves of Blarney”
is found in the collection of the music of
Ireland two hundred years old.
	“Home Sweet Home,” written by John
Howard Payne an American and a homeless
exile and wanderer, brought the prima
donna who first sung it a rich husband,
the publisher of the song ten thousand dol-
lars and the author fame only. In 1823,
Charles Kemble bought from Payne a num-
ber of plays and among them one entitled
“Clari, the Maid of Milan.” In extreme
poverty in an attic in Paris, Payne received
the order to change the play into an opera;
he did so and wrote for it this song, which
was an instant success.
	“Listen to the Mocking Bird” was writ-
ten for an old colored man named Dick
Milburn, who was blind and who used to
wander about the streets of Philadelphia
whistling like a mocking bird. It at once
caught the public ear and paid its publish-
ers one hundred thousand dollars. The
author was Septimus Winner who wrote
under his pen name of Alice Hawthorne.
	“Rock Me to Sleep Mother” was anoth-
er song which brought little to its author,
who received five dollars for the poem.
Published by the Saturday Evening Post it
brought the publishers many thousand dol-
lars and was claimed by a dozen persons,
but the real writer was Elizabeth Akers
(now Allen.) The song was written in
Italy.
	“Nancy Lee,” of world Wide popularity
was the work of an hour, words and music.
Frederick Weatherly while waiting for a
dilatory pupil wrote the song, words and
music. Its popularity was dimmed for a
time from the fact that the sailors of the
“Princess Alice” were singing the song
when the ship went down.
	“Then You’ll Remember Me” by Rolfe,
was written as a solo in the “Bohemian
Girl,” first presented in 1844.
	Mrs. Emma Willard an American teach-
er and author while on a ship coming from
Europe wrote “Rocked in the Cradle of the
Deep.” The air to which it is now sung
was composed by Joseph P. Knight, an
Englishman.
	Of the songs which reach the heart none
are more popular than “Ben Bolt” revived
by Du Maurler in his novel entitled “Tril-
by.” Dr. Thomas Dunn English wrote
the song for the New York Union at the


[Column 1]
request of N. P. Willis, its editor, who
wanted a sea song. The last line of the
poem was the only sea line Dr. English
could think of, "Ben Bolt of the salt sea
gale." The air adapted to the song by
Nelson Kareass was from an old German
melody.
	"Maid of Athens" is a tribute by Lord
Byron to the beautiful Theresa Macri,
daughter of the English vice-consul at
Athens. Twenty-four years after the song
was written an Englishman in Greece
sought out the "Maid of Athens" and
found her married, the mother of a large
family, no traces of her beauty left and in
abject want and poverty.
	Samuel Woodworth, a tramp printer,
coming into his house one day, tired and
thirsty, poured out a glass of water and
drank it eagerly saying to his wife "How
refreshing that is, but how much more re-
freshing would be a good long draught
from the old oaken bucket in my father's
well at home." His wife suggested that it
would be a good subject for a poem and
under the inspiration of the moment he
wrote "The Old Oaken Bucket."
	"The Angel's Whisper" by Samuel
Lover, is based on the old superstition in
Ireland that when a child smiles in its
sleep it is listening to the angels. The
music is an old Irish air, "Mary do ye
Fancy Me?"
	"Kathleen Mavourneen," usually spoken
of as having been written by Professor F.
Nicolks Cronch, was in reality the work of
Mrs. Louise M. Crawford, an English poet.
She was the collaborator of Proffessor
Cronch in the issue of several books of
songs; she writing the words, he t[--] music.
	It is one thing to sit in a theatre in New
York amid a scene of brilliant glitter and
fashion and hear the marvelous voice of
Patti rippling on the melody of "Way
Down upon de Swanee Ribber" and anoth
er to travel through the South till one
comes suddenly upon the clear, silent waters
of this stream. Just how this narrow little
sand-bottomed, blue-watered river, that
plays so small a part on the map of the
United States as does the Swanee, could
ever have become, all because of a mere
song, so famous in this wide world, seems
strange. "The old Folks at Home,"
sometimes called the "Swanee River" was
written by Stephen C. Foster and is a
great favorite the world over.
	"The Old Kentucky Home" also written
by Foster, is said to have been suggested to
him on hearing an old negro speak with
love and longing of his old home in Ken-
tucky. Several of Mr. Foster's songs were
composed on brown paper in the back room
of a little grocery store in New York.
"Massa's in de Cold. Cold Ground" is one of
his best compositions; he got the idea of
this song in Covington, Kentucky. He
heard a slave bewailing the fact that his
good old master was dead, and that now he
and other old slaves worn out in service,
would pass into the hands of less kindly
owners. Foster wrote both music and
words of his songs.
	Lord Arthur Hill had a romantic woo-
ing. His present wife acted in the capacity
of companion to his mother, the Marchion-
ess of Devonshire, and while she knew his
love for her and reciprocated, she felt a
marriage with her would be against his in-
terest and so without saying a word she sud-
denly disappeared. With many difficulties
he discovered her whereabouts and induced

[Column 2]
her to reconsider her determination. It was
this episode she embalmed in poetry in the
song "In the Gloaming."
	The composition of Sir Arthur Sulli-
van's beautiful song, "The Lost Chord," is
linked with sad memories in the life of the
composer. One night during the last ill-
ness of his beloved brother Frederick, when
for three weeks he had watched night and
day beside him, as the end drew near he
fell into a peaceful sleep. Sitting by his
bedside Sir Arthur chanced to come across
Adelaide Procter's poems which five years
before had greatly impressed him; as he
read them over again in the stillness of the
night their musical equivalent seemed to
sound in his ears. A stray sheet of paper
was at hand and he began to write. He
grew absorbed in it as the music grew and
determined to finish the song; even if it
proved worthless in the cold light of day it
would have helped to while away the hours
of watching. Thus was written "The
Lost Chord," perhaps the most successful
as certainly one of the most beautiful songs
of modern times. Its sale already has ex-
ceeded two hundred and fifty thousand
copies.
	Mr. Sankey's song "Ninety and Nine"
was named originally by Mr. Moody "The
Lost Sheep." The great Evangelists were
holding meetings in England one night
when Mr. Moody asked Mr. Sankey if he
had any song on the text of "The Good
Shepherd." Mr. Sankey had found in a
paper, while on the train some days pre-
viously, a poem signed anonymous, cut it
out and slipped it into his pocket. There
are golden moments in the evangelists
work, this was one of them. Something
seemed to say to him over and over, "Sing
the verses you found on the train." He
opened his note book, took out the scrap
and the second thought came, "How can I
sing a song without a tune?" meanwhile
the audience was waiting; he gave one
moment to silent supplication then struck a
full chord on the organ and began to sing.
He did not know what chords he played or
what notes he sang, he was thinking of
that poor, lone sheep and the Good Shep-
herd who searched through the night and
brought it home, and somehow he got
through the first verse, then he paused and
played some chords waiting to begin the
second. He knew that every heart in that
vast audience was with him and that every
breath was held in expectation, and the
thought came, "Can I remember the notes
to sing the same tune as the first verse?"
He concentrated his mind and began to sing
again, and so went through the five verses.
The audience sat as still as death till he
finished with the last glad shout.

	"And the angels echoed around the throne,
	Rejoice for the Lord brings back His own."

When it was all over Mr. Moody came
down from the pulpit and putting his hand
on his friend's shoulder said, "My dear friend
where did you get that song? I never heard
anything like it." "That," said Mr.
Sankey. "is the poem I read to you on
the train and you didn't listen to it."

"There is in souls a sympathy with sounds;
And as the mind is pitched the ear is pleased
With melting airs, or martial, brisk or grave,
Some chord in unison with what we hear
Is touched within us, and the heart replies."

	Read before the "Treble Clef," Wallace,
Ida., Dec. 24, 1897.


