[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: EGYPT. | Author: Unknown]

EGYPT.

	BEFORE closing the history of Egypt in
the Reapers Club it may prove interesting
to many of us to take a retrospective glance
over the work that has claimed our atten-
tion for so many weeks, with the object of
refreshing our memories on its principal
dates and items of interest.
	We have learned that with the migration
of the sons of Noah from Bactria, Egypt
must have been one of the first countries
settled. There is no knowledge extant of
an earlier civilization and we refer to the
Pearl of Great Price where it is stated
that Egyptus, the daughter of Ham, dis-
covered and settled the country, her eldest
son governing under the title of Pharaoh,
meaning one of royal blood. Then too,
Herodotus the Greek historian, styled the
“Father of History” who wrote 450 B. C.,
was a traveler as well as a writer and
gives us much that came under his observa-
tion. But even in his day there was little
to be learned of the builders of the wonder-
ful temples, palaces and monuments lying
in ruins on every side, silent witnessess of
a magnificent past; and the strange hiero-
glyphics and picture writing chiselled and
drawn on every hand in pride and boast-
fulness that future ages might read and
envy, were as silent as the hand that form-
ed them. He spoke of the manners and
customs of their religious rites and cere-
monies. The early history of the country
is lost in obscurity and we have fabulous 
accounts of its being governed by gods, but
all historians agree that Menes, or Mizriam,

[Column 2]
the son of Ham, founded Memphis about
2,700 B. C., making it the capital of the
country and that it then reached a high
state of civilization.
	The history of the country from the
founding of Memphis until the Persian
invasion which covers a period of a little
more than two thousand years, is divided
into three parts called the Old, Middle and
New Empires. During the first thousand
the pyramids are supposed to have been
built, Abraham came from Caanan, the
shepherd kings, supposed to have been
Arabians, overrun the country, usurped the
throne, established a government and re-
ligion which taught the worship of the true
God. During this time Joseph was made
chief minister and Jacob was given the land
of Goshen. In time the kingdom was di-
vided into many parts and Thebes became
the capital, the city of a hundred gates,
costly palaces, and wonderful works such as
the lake Moeris and the Labarinth abound.
The shepherd kings have been driven out
and a Theban ruler is on the throne, the peo-
ple are united and Egypt for another one
thousand years enjoyed great prosperity,
rising to the height of its glory. Thotmes
III., called the Egyptian Alexander the
Great, erected the magnificent temple
at T—Seti, built the great hall of Karnac.
Rameses II. was a great builder. He it
was who made the lives of the Hebrews
bitter with hard labor. He founded a
library, inscribed the “Dispensary of the
Soul,” and gathered around him many men
of learning, making his time the golden age
of early art and literature. Thus closed
the second thousand years.
	Then began the decline of the Empire. It
was unable to keep the great conquests in
Ovid and other countries, the tributaries
uprose and the country was conquered by
the Ethiopians and the Assyrians, and fin-
ally under Cambyses, the Persian king, be-
came a Persian province, 525 B. C. For
two hundred years the Egyptians struggled
with the Persians for independence, they
often gained it but as often were overcome
again, and for over two hundred years there
has not been a native ruler in the land of
Egypt, thus fulfilling the prophecy of Ezek-
iel that “there shall be no more a prince in
the land of Egypt.” And we look for its
subsequent history with that of its conquer-
ors.
	In 336 B. C. Alexander the Great, king of
Macedonia, conquered the Persians and
marched against Thebes, destroying the
magnificent city, and selling the inhabitants to
the number of thirty thousand into slavery.
He also founded the city of Alexandria
which for many centuries afterwards was
the first commercial cityt of he world. At
his death and the division of his kingdom
among his generals, Ptolemy a half brother,
was given Egypt, and now commenced the
reign of the Ptolemies. There was thirteen
successive rulers of that name, their
government extending over a period of
about three thousand years and ending with
the death of the famous Cleopatra, who
occupying the throne with her brother was
the last of the Ptolemies. During the
reign of the first of these monarchs Egypt
was the center of learning for the world.
Great libraries were founded and science
and literature flourished.
	In 316 B.C. was fought the battle of Ach-
eron in whtch Octavius defeated Anthony
and Cleopatra and Egypt became a Roman
province. Two hundred years later, 668


[Column 1]
the Mohammedans overrun the country
burning the famous library at Alexandria.
In 1217 it was conquered by the Turks,
in 1798 it was invaded by Napoleon, in
1801 the British expelled the French and
the country fell into the hands of the Turks
under whose government it has remained to
the present day.
	We learn of their religion that they be-
lieved in one God, self-creative and all
powerful; that His representatives were
worshiped in the sun and moon, in the form
of animals, cats, dogs and crocodiles and
many others. That they believed in the
immortality of the soul and a final judg-
ment with a heaven hereafter whose degree
of glory would correspond with our work
here. In the catacombs built in the chain
of mountains bordering the Nile are im-
mense tombs; the upper rooms are orna-
mented with pictures and statuary showing
the people in their daily occupation, and
here we gather fragments of their history
proving that they were skilled in agricul-
ture, mechanical arts and domestic work.
Linen found in the tombs at Memphis is
comparable in touch to silk, equaling our
finest cambric. Dyeing and coloring was
well understood. Indeed their secret of
colors in painting has never been equaled.
Time does not fade them, and it is said that
among many ruins the colors are well pre-
served.
	Their literature contains much that is
elevating, showing a high standard of mor-
als. From the Book of the Dead, we quote
the soul’s defense before the God Osisis,
the sun: “I have not been idle; I have not
been intoxicated; I have not told secrets; I
have not told falsehoods; I have not de-
frauded; I have not slandered; I have not
caused tears; I have given food to the hun-
gry, drink to the thirsty, and clothes to
the naked.” The papyrus or reed plant
with parchment, the dried skins of animals,
was prepared in sheets to hold their writ-
ing. The earliest books consisted of pic-
tures similar to those used by our Indians
today. The people were divided into class-
es, the priests being the most learned and
powerful. In disposition they were mild
and social and very religious, their religion
entering into every day life. Dark-skinned,
tall and well proportioned people who were
fond of amusement and great lovers of
flowers.
	Their architecture massive and enduring
has been the wonder of the world. The
Egyptian granite is so hard that it can
scarcely be cut with the best steel made to-
day, yet anciently it was chiselled or cut
several inches deep showing a beautiful
finish. Among the greatest pieces of
architecture are the pyramids, the great
Karnac, Labarinth and lake Moeris. The
great pyramid of Cheops is 480 ft. high and
covers 13 1/2 acres. Prof. Seiss calls it a
great temple built in the land of Egypt to
the Lord, and brings forth many arguments
that are unanswerable in regard to its
wonderful scientific and astronomical char-
acters, showing that its builders had more
than human knowledge. Unlike the other
ruins found such as palaces, temples, oba-
lisks and monuments, the pyramids are left
without hieroghyphics, or picture writing,
this appears unaccountable. I think it is
impossible for any one to read the works of
Profs. Smith and Seiss and remain uncon-
vinced of its divine origin. At Thebes the
great temple of Karnac connected with that
of Luxor two miles away by an avenue of

[Column 2]
sphinxes it is said words cannot describe.
The great hall is 340 by 170 feet. It con-
tains over one hundred columns 70 feet
high and, quoting from Ferguson’s history
of architecture, “The mass of its central
piers, illuminated by a flood of light from
above and the smaller pillars of its wings
gradually fading into obscurity, are so ar-
ranged and lighted as to convey an idea of
infinite space; while the beauty and mas-
siveness of its forms and the brilliancy of
their colored decorations, all combine to
stamp this as one of the greatest of man’s
architectual works. The Labarinth at
Memphis was an immense temple palace of
three thousand rooms with beautiful
courts and colonades, built of white stone
finely finished and covered with carvings.
	Egypt today pays tribute to the Sultan of
Turkey, but has an hereditary governor
who is called the Khedive. It is the most
advanced and progressive of any of the
countries of Africa, having government
schools and railroads. The population is
very mixed consisting of Arabs, Copts des-
cended from the ancient Egyptians, Moham-
medans, Turks, Negroes and slaves. The
majority of the people are ignorant and
superstitious.
	The discoveries being made by the
Egyptologists of today are constantly un-
folding to us the history of its ancient peo-
ple. Prof. Petrio, the greatest of modern
workers, has recently made excavations
near Thebes which he says will place the
civilization one thousand years earlier than
has been recorded, and making it antedelu-
vian time. Since the finding of the Ros-
setta stone by one of Napoleon’s survey-
ors and its interpretation by the eminent
French scholar Champolleon, a key has
been given to the hieroglyphic cyphers,
clearing many dark pages of Egyptian his-
tory.
