[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: WOMAN’S MEMORIAL BUILDING. | Author: Unknown]

WOMAN’S MEMORIAL BUILDING.

	THE George Washington memorial com-
mittee of Utah held a meeting in the city
on February 1st, at 2 p. m., at the residence
of Mrs. O. J. Salisbury, chairman for Utah
appointed by the central committee of which
Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson of Boston is
chairman. The meeting was called by
Mrs. C. E. Allen, vice-chairman by request of
Mrs. Salisbury, who is still in New York
City. Mrs. Salisbury went to Washington
to attend the Woman’s Congress held there
by the Washington Memorial Association
on Dec. 14, 15 and 16, 1897, for the pur-
pose of planning a system of campaign in
the interest of the memorial or administra-
tion building or which the women of the
country have undertaken to raise a fund of
$250,000. At the meeting held on Febru-
ary 1, it was considered and voted upon as
the sentiment of the meeting that the $1,000
from this state be given by the children in
pennies or nickels. Committees were ap-
pointed by the chair to wait upon the
Governor of the State and the State Super-
intendent of schools and also the board of
education of Salt Lake City and lay the mat-
ter of collections before them for their views
and suggestions

	“For nearly one hundred years the last
will of Washington has stood as a monu-
ment of his sagacity in foreseeing the fact
that a state founded on popular intelligence
would need facilities for the highest special-
ization as well as for universal education.
His will is unfulfilled. Is it not a reproach to
us as a people that the wisdom of one of
our greatest men has not been heeded?
	“Education in politics and good govern-
ment was a part of his thought, and the
need is as great today as ever. The safety
of the home and of individual liberty de-
pends upon the proper education of states-
men. The future of the nation and of the
race demands the service of the most care-
fully trained minds, that by public hygiene
and preventive medicine, stalwart bodies
may be the rule; that the complex relation
of sex and of capital and labor arising from
the introduction of machinery may cease to
threaten the welfare of children yet unborn;
that a higher type of education for every in-
dividual child may be evolved; that material
conditions may not stifle the spiritual life of
the people.
	“Opportunity for research, investigation,
which alone can produce these results, is
slightly cared for in this country. Our
students flock to Europe for it. Where in

[Column 2]
universities it is provided, it is done by the
uncertain gifts of individuals, and depends
upon the fluctuations of interest-bearing
securities. The nation could receive such
gifts and give stability to the income, could
confer grants and thus insure the highest
opportunities to young people of genius. In
democracy still more than in a monarchy
this opportunity should be given, because
in a democracy the fruits of genius more
readily become the property of all.
	“The George Washington Memorial Com-
mittee desires to raise a fund of $250,000
for a building, the administrative home for a
National University, and they wish every
man woman and child in the United States
to hear of Washington’s bequest, and to
have the opportunity of giving a small sum
for this memorial. February 22, 1898, has
been selected as the Offering Day to the
memory of our honored first president.”


