[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: SANPETE STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Sanpete Stake Relief
Society conference held at Manti, Dec. 18,
1897. Opened by singing “Lord we come
before Thee now.” Prayer by L. J. Nuttall.
Singing “Where the voice of friendship’s,
heard.”
	President M. A. Hyde spoke of the
signs of the times and the gathering of the
Jews; warned the mothers to have a watch
care over their children.
	The different Societies were represented
as follows: Gunnison, Pres. Helena Mad-
sen; Fountain Green, Sec. Christina Guy-
man; Fairview, Counselor Caroline Peter-
son; Fayette, Pres. Eliza Bartholomew;
Mt. Pleasant, by letter; Ephraim North
ward, Pres. Benedicta Hansen; Manti
North ward, Pres. R. Wareham; Manti
South ward, Pres. Esther Anderson; Moro-
ni, Pres. Annie Hardy; Mayfield, Pres.
Matilda Olsen; Milburn, Sec. Nelly Gra-
ham.
	President M. A. Hyde said if the sisters
would have faith and would arise and speak
and bear testimony, the Lord would bless
them and give them a testimony. Said
there were many things that would come to
try us, but if we have a testimony we will
overcome them.
	Bishop Jensen was pleased to see that the
sisters were interested in the poor of the
ward. Counselor A. L. Cox made a few
closing remarks. Singing “Now let us re-
joice.” Benediction by Brother Aaron
Hardy.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing “Guide
us O Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by
J. B. Maiben. Singing “We thank Thee O
God for a prophet.” Reading and adop-
tion of the previous minutes. The remain-
ing reports were given: Spring City,
Counselor Nancy Acord; Sterling, Elizabeth
Thompson; Butler Field, Counselor Martha
Sorenson
	Brother L. J. Nuttall spoke of the small
percentage of sisters attending the meeting;
thought the sisters were not doing them-
selves justice. Said it was not only for the
poor, but for the saving of souls. He
looked upon the Society as a school and
we cannot be saved in our ignorance. Gave
instructions to the secretaries and said he
looked upon the wheat question as one of
the most important things in the Society;
it came from the highest authority. He
said if the Saints do all they can to avert
the famine the Lord will avert their calami-
ties from their door. Said are we becoming
mixed up with the world or are we prepar-
ing to save our own souls and help others
to save theirs? Asked the peace and bless-
ing of the Lord to be with us.
	President M. A. Hyde gave the sisters a
mother’s blessing; she then spoke in
tongues and Sister Elizabeth Casto inter-
preted.
	Brother J. D. T. McAllister endorsed and
testified to the truthfulness of the remarks
that had been made and encouraged the
taking of notes. Said to follow those who
were to lead and it would be well with us.
Brother J. B. Maiben hoped we might be


[Column 1]
in the path of progress and that we might
be better one year than another, as we are
in the school of Christ.
	Brother L. J. Nuttall said there is every-
thing in our Society that is necessary for
the advancement or good of the sisters-
He said if we find anything good and truth.
ful we can unite it with ours.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing Doxology. Benediction by Bishop
Hans Jenson.
SALT LAKE STAKE,
	MINUTES of the quarterly conference of
the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society held  in
the Fourteenth ward assembly hall Dec. 18,
1897, President M. I. Horne presiding with
her counselors A. T. Taylor and C. C. Can-
non. Present on the stand were Elder
Brigham Young of the council of the
Apostles; Elder Angus M. Cannon presi-
dent of the Salt Lake Stake; Sisters Zina
D. H. Young of the general board; B. W.
Smith, J. S. Richards, M. W. Wilcox, E.
J. Stevenson, J. C. Howe and L. D. Alder.
Meeting was opened by singing “Our God
we raise to Thee.” Prayer was offered by
C. C. Cannon. Singing “O awake my
slumbering minstrel.” Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and accepted. Roll
called, forty-five wards represented.
	President Horne said she felt happy to
see so many together, we should seek first
tha kingdom of God and all other things
would be added. “Blessed are ye when ye
seek after righteousness.” Said the adver-
sary was seeking after the Latter-day Saints
and trying to throw obstacles in the way of
those who were trying to do their duty.
Said to ask our Heavenly Father what our
duties were and do them, pray without
ceasing, take care of our children and try
and help them in the straight and narrow
path. Said, “I see many things in Zion
that make me sad, but Zion will be purified
and the Lord is willing to deliver us from
sin.” Said the Gospel was so plain and
beautiful it should stimulate us to do good
and lift up all who come under its influence.
“We are blest of all women, let us not
get weary of well doing.” Spoke on the
Church works being read in the Society,
said they were good food for any Latter-
day Saint. All kinds of clubs were being
organized, why cannot we reform in our
Society and call on those who do not attend?
Prayed the Lord to bless us in our confer-
ence and hoped we would all be fed with
the bread of life.
	Sister B. W. Smith asked for the faith
and prayers of the sisters, was pleased with
the reports. Said her time was taken up
in the Temple, it was a great work and
President Young had said he would like to
see twenty temples built, some in Mexico
and Arizona, for the Savior would not come
while there was so much wickedness on the
earth. Prayed for the Lord to bless the sis
ters in their labors.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde felt her weakness
and asked for the prayers of the sisters. She
felt that the presidents were interested in
their work, and that the Lord blessed His
daughters. The Prophet Joseph had an in-
terest and care over the women when he
appointed his wife Emma president of the
Society. Our Society should be education-
al, advised reading and speaking in the
Society and said we have everything in our
organization to elevate women.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon rejoiced in meet-
ing with the Society, said it had been edu-

[Column 2]
cational to her and she had learned many
things that had been of benefit to her at
home and in the Society. She spoke on the
word of wisdom and the blessings promised
to those who observed its laws, and said we
should teach the young people the evil
effects of not observing it.
	Elder Brigham Young of the Council of
the Apostles, said he hoped he was not in-
truding, had not given the workings of the
Society his study but felt it was an im-
portant factor in the Church, and that the
sisters wielded an influence, the mother’s
mind should be a fountain of knowledge,
felt a great responsibility resting upon the
mothers and sisters in the Church in trying
to purify society of its many evils. Said
the sisters were as staunch and faithful as
any of the brethren. The onslaught was
on the youth of Zion and what is so power-
ful as the Relief Society in staying the
wickedness that is among us? The sisters
are prompted by the spirit of the Lord and
can do a great deal of good in saving the
people. There is more virtue among the
sisters, the brethren have the world, the
flesh and the devil to overcome. He had
met with some of the organizations in his
travels and they were doing a good work.
Gave an interesting account of his travels
in the south.
	President Angus M. Cannon said he
could say amen to everything Brother
Young had said. We did not want our
own will but the will of the Lord. Said he
enjoyed the good spirit tnat attended these
meetings and felt to advance the cause of
Zion, blessed the sisters in their good en-
deavors.
	Sister Horne felt thankful to have the
brethren with us this morning. Meeting
adjourned till two o’clock. Singing “Do
what is right.” Benediction Elder Cannon.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Opened by sing-
ing “All hail the glorious day.” Prayer by
Sister M. W. Wilcox. Singing “O say
what is truth.” Reports were given of some
of the city wards, all were in good condi-
tion.
	Sister Zina Young said it was joy for her
to meet with the sisters. She had recently
traveled six hundred miles, her daughter
Zina Card sent her love to all the sisters.
Joseph Smith the prophet had turned the
key for women, and she felt the same spirit
today as she had then. Said how humble
we should be and put aside all pride and
selfishness. She felt the power of the Lord
was among the sisters; asked the Lord to
perfect us and bring us into His presence.
	Sister Horne spoke on storing wheat and
said she had urged the sisters when wheat
was cheap to buy it, now it was going up.
There was room in the 14th ward granary
for a thousand bushels of wheat to be stored.
The wheat should be under the sisters’
jurisdiction and be purchased by the sisters.
Said to lay aside selfishness and build up
the kingdom of God.
	Sister J. S. Richards of Ogden, said this
house was like coming to an old home;
here her children bad been blessed and
those of her loved ones who had passed
away their funerals had been held here, and
she felt the hall had a sacred place in her
memory. Said to teach our children to
honor and respect the memory of great men
and women. She felt the counsel of Sister
Horne about the wheat was timely, the
fever for parting with the wheat in her part
of the country was great, but she had ad-
vised them to keep it, wheat held a precious

[Column 3]
place in her heart. Said she wanted to do
good if only in little things and spoke on
visiting and comforting the sick. Said to
have charity for each others weaknesses and
do good to those who despitefully use you.
Asked the Lord to help us to do His will.
	Sister Horne hoped the sisters of the
Society would remember and make happy
the poor during the holidays, and begin
1898 anew in good works. Gave notice to
the secretaries to have their reports in by
February, and meeting adjourned for three
months. Singing “When shall we all meet
again.” Benediction by Dr. E. Barney.
		MARGARET Y. TAYLOR, Sec.
EAST MILL CREEK.
	Minutes of the Primary conference held
Oct. 30, 1897, President E. E. Fisher pre-
siding. Singing “Our Father in heaven.”
Prayer by Counselor F. M. Neff. Singing
“Oh come children come.” Roll was called
and the minutes of the last conference were
read and accepted. The program was car-
ried out as follows:
	Song by Dorcas Debenham and Genie
Neff. The alphabet in rhyme was given
by Hazel and Irene Tagg and Erva Fisher.
Millie Capson read a revelation given to
Joseph Smith in Portage Co. Ohio. Chloe
Young, Lena Ranck and Pauline Fisher
sang “The Primary Throng.” Questions
and Answers on the restoration of the Gos-
pel were given by Junius Fisher, Laurence
Fisher, Joseph Oliver, Edgar Debenham
and Leon Eldredge. A dialogue was ren-
dered by Elaine Neff and Eveline Fisher.
The Articles of Faith were given by Julia
Woodell. A recitation was given by Millie
King. Questions and Answers on the
“Church” were given by Caleb Fisher and
Johnie Oliver, A dialogue was given by
Annie and Phillis King. Recitations were
given by Mary Fisher and Forest Fagg.
	Sister Morris then spoke a few moments.
She said she was pleased to meet with us
and sang a motion song with the children.
Gave a short history of Joseph Smith and
related some very interesting incidents con-
nected with his early life.
	Sister Howe spoke to us a short time.
Said she was very much pleased to meet
with us and pleased with our program. She
felt that the children responded with inspir-
ation and faith, and told how the Laman-
ites came to be cursed. Said we were a
blessed people and that we should appreci-
ate our great blessings. Advised all to
pray without ceasing, and related an inci-
dent of a little boy who was healed through
faith. Spoke of obedience, said it was the
first law of heaven, and told the children to
love one another and to pray for each other,
to pray for her and to remember her. Pray-
ed God to bless us all.
	Irene Fisher was then voted in secretary
of East Mill Creek. Primary conference was
then adjourned for one year. Singing
“Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing.”
Benediction by Counselor Capson.
