[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-Monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall, Saturday Jan. 22, 1898, President M.
I. Horne presiding. Singing "Welcome
best of all good meetings." Prayer by
Counselor C. C. Cannon. Singing "Jesus
the Giver." The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and accepted.
	President Horne in her opening remarks
stated that a very benevolent firm in the
city, viz. Walker Bros., are distributing a
large amount of flour and coal to the poor.
Said the business of the meeting consisted
in finding out how many poor were in each
ward.
	Brother Goddard who was present made
a few remarks. He noticed in the reports
made that the people were all acting in
unison with their Bishops.
	President Zina D. H. Young wished to
be guided by the holy Spirit, and said one
keynote of the Gospel was obedience. Said


[Column 1]
many of the faces here she had known
since childhood. Urged the sisters never
to neglect their prayers night or morning,
for then their hearts would be kept warm
within them and they would love one
another, and they would then have the
Spirit of the Lord. Said she could scarce-
ly realize that this Gospel had gone
throughout the world. We could only do
our duty today, we could not do it for to-
morrow; it was like feeding a little baby
just a teaspoonful of nourishment at a time.
She thought we did not realize near all the
blessings of the Gospel, and felt to thank
God that He inspired President Brigham
Young to organize these meetings, and
prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke of the com-
mencement of the new year and of the many
good resolutions that had been made, also
spoke on fault finding and said whenever
we felt like doing so we should go to the
Lord in humility and pray for them and for
ourselves; knew if we indulged in fault
finding, especially about the Priesthood in
authority, that it would lead to apostacy.
Thought it was a noble work to look after
the poor and to administer to them, and that
it would keep our hearts warm. God had
inspired these benovelant men to help the
poor, that it was His work. Said that she
had heard a Bishop say that notwithstand-
ing the hard times that now existed never
before had they been so well prepared to
look after their poor, and felt this was an
evidence that God was our help and Father
in time of need, even as He had promised
He would be. 
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said as she was
not here last meeting she wished us all a
happy and a prosperous New Year. Spoke
of a meeting she attended in West Bounti-
ful and said she had never in all her life
attended such a meeting. The Spirit of
the Lord was poured out to a great degree.
Said she felt a great anxiety for our young
children but still felt they would be cared
for and loved. Urged those who had but
one talent to make the most of it.
	Brother Goddard was very much pleased
by the remarks of the sisters. Spoke of the
signs of the times and of laying up wheat
and flour, and said that Brother George Q.
Cannon in their Sunday School meeting
had urged the brethren to preach the word
of wisdom, especially to the young people.
Sang “God moves in a mysterious way.”
	Sister Sarah Phelps said she felt there
were great things before us. She knew
that the spirit of repentance would be
poured out upon the rising generation.
Spoke in tongues, which was interpreted by
“Sister Zina.”
	President Horne thought we had had a
very good meeting, even if there were a
good many temporal things to attend to.
There was every help in the world for peo-
ple to live their religion; there were mis-
sionaries both abroad and at home, and
many kinds of meetings for people to know
what was right. Thought mothers did not
teach their children young enough to pray
and have faith in God. Said that instead
of the people being tried they were being
proven, spoke strongly on the signs of the
times and prayed that we might be faithful
and true to our covenants and to God.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks by
singing, “The time is far spent.” Benedic-
tion by Brother Goddard.	
			ZINA H. Bull, Sec.

[Column 2]
	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Feb. 5, 1898, President Horne presid-
ing. Singing “Now let us rejoice in the
day of salvation” Prayer by Counselor E.
Webb. Singing “Let those who would be
Saints indeed.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved.
	President Horne hoped the sisters would
testify of the goodness of God, those who
testified of God He would bring up in re-
membrance before Him. Spoke of improv-
ing our talents, if we only had one we
should make the most of it, this was the
word of the Lord. There was not one of
the sisters if she had the Spirit of the Lord
and attempted to speak, no matter how lit-
tle she said, but that some one would be
benefited by it. Said she hoped that all
would feel free that we might have a good
time together.
	Sister Margaret O. Brown felt it was
good for us to meet together if only to
praise the Lord. She enjoyed so much
hearing President Horne speak and knew
she had a world of knowledge to impart by
which we were always benefited. Said her
heart was full of rejoicing for the blessings
of the Lord and thought we should always
try to live so that we might feel this way.
Said many of the dead for whom she had
officiated had appeared to her in dreams and
she knew they were pleased for what she
had done.
	Sister Ford said her heart was full of re-
joicing, and spoke of administering to the
poor; said those who gave to the poor
loaned to the Lord and felt to say God bless
those men who had so generously given to
the poor, also prayed God would bless all
who were here this afternoon.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and spoke of the goodness of
God to her. She loved her brothers and
sisters; the scriptures said when we loved
one another we had the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt it was not
right to let the precious moments go to
waste, referred to the hymn just sung “Let
those who would be Saints indeed,” said
never before had it struck her so forcibly,
thought there was a sermon in it and urged
all to read it. Said she felt much edified by
the remarks of President Horne, expressed
her anxiety for the young people and said
she heard Brother Andrew Jensen say that
the Scandinavians were forming an asso-
ciation to look after the young girls of their
nationality, thought this was a very worthy
object. Prayed that the Lord would help
us to remember what we had heard this
afternoon and referred to a prophecy of
Brother Heber C. Kimball wherein he said
that the time would come when we could
not pick up a paper which would not be
filled with terrible things which would
make our hearts sick. Thought the time
had indeed come.
	Sister Armeda S. Young spoke of the
class work of Sister Sorenson and the great
amount of good she was doing, the object
was the same as President Young advocated,
to study our bodies and make good mothers.
	Sister Carrie Kester urged the sisters to
attend these classes. Sister Phelps felt the
Lord was pouring out His Spirit upon His
daughters, and thought it was the young
men that needed to be labored with instead
of the girls.
	Sister Butterworth testified to the good-
ness of the Lord to her in raising her little
grand son from almost death. He was

[Column 3]
very ill but had been healed by the power
of the Lord, and felt very grateful for her
many blessings.
	Sister Carlhurst bore her testimony and
spoke very feelingly in regard to the pro-
tection of young girls who were compelled
to work out for their living, and urged the
sisters to use their influence with those who
hired girls to throw over them a mother’s
watch care.
	President Horne had enjoyed the beauti-
ful testimonies of the sisters. She thought
every one who hired help should have a
watch care over them; and knew there was
a great deal of iniquity abroad, but hoped
the time would come when such would not
be the case. 
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing
Doxology. Benediction by Counselor C.
C. Cannon.
