	ROCKPORT, SUMMIT Co, June 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our yearly meeting June 3, com-
mencing with the usual exercises of sing-
ing and prayer, after which our report was
read showing our progress to be as good as
could be expected, as we are but few. We
have now on hand in grain, cash and sun-
dries, property amounting to sixty dollars.
We have made a start in the Grain Move-
ment, and intend by the blessing of our
Heavenly Father to still keep adding to it,
if the frost does not take our grain. We
feel and know that the counsel of our be-
loved President Brigham Young is good.
We received a visit last fall from Mrs. E.
Howard and E. S. Barney, held a meeting
and received much valuable instruction,
enjoying the spirit of the Lord while as-
sembled together, and were very much
pleased to have them meet with us. We
hold our meetings monthly, and express
our feelings and the gratitude of our hearts
for the many blessings we as a people re-
ceive from time to time. We also have
sewing meetings alternately.
	May the Lord bless all the Relief Socie-
ties, and prosper you in your labors upon
the valuable paper which we consider a
blessing to the saints, is the wish of us all.
				ANN BRYANT, President.
			SARAH STAKER, Secretary.

		TOKERVILLE, June 24th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	We esteem it a great privilege to con-
tribute to your valuable paper, which in
perusing we find contains very encourag-
ing accounts of the different Relief Socie-
ties, and feel honored to have the opportu-
nity to represent our society through your
columns. We have donated forty-one yards

[Column 2]
of carpet and some articles of men's wear
to the St. George Temple, and have carpets,
quilts and a variety of other things in the
treasury. We desire to carry out the coun.
sel of our beloved President Brigham
Young in regard to storing grain, and have
purchased a small amount for a commence-
ment, and live in hopes of doing more as
opportunity affords, although we labor un-
der great disadvantages in not raising grain
in this vicinity. We have not commenced
silk raising yet, but intend doing so at an
early day. The members of our Society
are energetic and alive to their duties.
	We have a Young Ladies' Retrenchment
Association organized, with Mrs. Mary L.
Ransom, president; Misses Elizabeth Klien-
man, Sabra Higbee, Elvira Hill, Mary R.
Dodge, Mrs. Sarah A. Spilsbury, and Lydia
Jackson, Counselors; Misses Mary E. Klein-
man, and Permelia Dodge Secretaries; Miss
Jane Stapley, Treasurer; they have thirty-
one names enrolled as members and they
manifest a willing spirit to do their duty in
the interest of the society.
	Every praying for the success of your val-
uable paper, we remain
		Yours Respectfully,
			S. A. SPILSBURY, Secretary;
			R. J. SPILLSBURY, Assistant.

