INTERVIEW WITH PRINCIPAL DILL.

He Opposes Reduction, Particularly of
	Ladies' Pay.

	A reporter for the Commercial walking
along Fourth street, yesterday, observed
the school moralist, Dill, gazing upon the
photos and statuary in Robert Clarke's win-
dow, and knowing the genial moralist as a
ready talker on school matters, and one who
says straight out what he thinks, a short
interview was proposed, which contains a
few points of interest, as the Board of Edu-
cation is now about to cut off the school
shekels—reduce the teachers' salaries.
	Reporter—Mr. Dill, what do you think of
the reduction in salaries?
	Dill—I don't think much about it.  Mr.
Miller is a very excellent gentleman, but
his endeavor to reduce school teachers to
the rank of uneducated employes is but an
endeavor to perform a small thing in a
large way.
	Reporter—Well, don't you think that
school teachers are, under present circum-
stances, overpaid?
	Dill—No, sir; the teachers are not over-
paid.  They serve the community well,
wear plain clothes, live in very moderate
style, and only have enough to eat to keep
soul and body together.  The truth is, if
the teachers are to get lower salaries, dress
in poor calico and jeans, board or live in
alleys or unfrequented streets, and slink,
poverty-stricken, from public observation,
the effect will be bad—very bad, upon the
schools.  The teachers are engaged in work
intellectual and moral, and if Mr. Miller de-
grades their salaries, dress, home and social
position, the teacher is degraded in the es-
timation of children and parents.
	Reporter—But hard times seem to require
a reduction in every public department,
and the teachers should contribute a little
in reducing the public burden.
	Dill—No, sir; you are indulging in a mild
form of financial nonsense.  The teachers
are only getting moderate salaries, less in
fact than the teachers of other cities are
getting. Suppose you reduce the teachers'
salaries $5,000, what will you do with the
$5,000?  The money is earned and paid
right out by the teachers to grocers, seam-
stresses, boardinghouse keepers, &c.  Sup-
pose the Board cuts off $10,000, will the
$10,000 be saved, will it be better applied
than now, will it reduce the tax rates? No,
no, sir.
	Reporter—Well, I hear that the commit-
tee will report in favor of cutting off ten
per cent. of your salaries.
	Dill—Yes, I've heard so, but care nothing
about it.  The Board can cut my salary up
or down, but if they cut down the salaries
of the female teachers, they will entitle
themselves to a little merited execration.
	Reporter—Why not reduce their salaries,
as well as the principals?
	Dill—The Principals are supposed to be
men; in an emergency they could, possibly,
do something else, but the women can not.

[Column 2]
It requires from five to eight years' prepa-
ration for the position of teacher; and, [-]e-
porter, see here, now listen to what I am
saying.  God never intended women to
waste their lives in per cent. school teach-
ing, not a bit of it.  Women were intended
for wives and mothers, but school-teaching
is a dead lock against both.  When a young
woman commences to teach school she
loses nine chances in ten for marriage; if
she teaches five years her chances for mar-
riage and the dear delights of motherhood
are but one chance in one hundred, and if
she teaches ten years her chances for mar-
riage and good social position are but one
in ten thousand.  I tell you, reporter, this
ought to be considered.  There are four
hundred and more female teachers in Cin-
cinnati, and of these at least three hundred
will go in plain funeral to unmarked graves,
unknown, unloved, unmarried! This is a
fact not generally treated upon; and I say
that the man who reduces the dress, home
comforts and pleasures of the school wo-
men does an unkindness, a cruelty, an un-
mitigated meanness which ought not to be
forgiven in this world nor that to come.
	Reporter—You do not, then, favor a re-
duction of salaries?
	Dill—So far as my own is concerned I
have nothing to say—they can cut it up or
down $100 or $200.  I have given twenty
years' study to school business; have passed
all the examinations in Ohio; have taught
in common school, high school and college,
and if the Board wishes to reduce my sala-
ry and belittle my position I shall say noth-
ing about it.  I have a wife and several
children, two of my children are in the
schools, and I think Mr. Miller's resolution
will not be prayerfully regarded at my
house.	[Exit Dill,]
—"Cincinnati Commercial."


