EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Through the blessing of the Lord, I have
been thus far so successful as to receive my
medical diploma, and am now having a
most pleasant rest for a short season —I say
rest because I am not engaged here every
moment with my books and recitations—
though I am still reading, observing, watch-
ing and examining into the principles of
giving baths. That water has a power of 
its own, no one will deny, especially if 
skillfully applied. The end of all medica-
tion is to assist Nature, not to do her work
for her. The Healing-Art in the hands of
the skillful, should be a resort to furnish
the needed prop or stay when nature is fail-
ing or has failed until she rallies or rebuilds
with her inimitable molecules, as with
bright new bricks, the weak place in the 
economy. The resources should be equal
to all the ills the flesh is heir to, and spirit
too, if we could only grow eye to eye in 
faith and scientific knowledge; but to tell
you of the Water Cure—first the situation
is lovely—on a hillside over-looking the
city of Elmira, which so much resembles
Salt Lake City nestling at the foot of the
everlasting hills, and gladdened with beau-
tiful green trees. The Cure consists of a
large main building four stories high with
a verandah on three sides of the first and
second stories. There is a large wing at
each end of the building one connecting
with a separate cottage by a high balustrad-
ed walk between the second stories. In 
front is a lawn finished with a double row
of pines arranged in the form of a semi-
circle and inclosing a walk between them.
To the north-west is a shady glen, with its
trickling streams, delicate ferns and forget-
me-nots. There are some sixty or seventy
patients in the Cure at present, (almost all
ladies) the greater number being able be-
tween bath hours to employ themselves
with light needle-work, fancy knitting,
reading, walking etc. Some few are con-
fined to their rooms or easy chairs. The 
order of the day is about as follows. At 6
30, a. m. the rising bell rings, breakfast
served at 7 30 a. m.; those who are able go
to the dining room, those who are not have
a tray carried to their room. After break-
fast those who desire, repair to the parlor
for the morning service which consists of a 
short reading in the bible and prayer by Dr.
Wales (gentleman,) and singing of a hymn.
The medical offices are now opened of both
Mr. and Mrs. Wales, the patients awaiting
their turn for advice or treatment. Office
hours are followed by baths each patient ac-
cording to the prescription given. Baths
commence at ten o'clock and continue until
twelve; the different kinds are, hot air,
(miniature Turkish) full, threefourths, sitz,
foot, head and foot, pours, etc.; all fin-
ished up with such vigorous slapping and 
massage by robust Scotch girls that the
sleepiest or half dead molecules of blood
are sent madly coursing on their way re-
newing, enlivening and invigorating with
new life every process of the system. Din-
nner is served at 1 p. m., followed by a nap
or some light employment until three
o'clock when baths begin again and con-
tinue until five. The baths are each of a 
specified time ranging from one minute to 
one half or three quarters of an hour. The
tea bell rings at six, after which two hours
is whiled away on the verandah, in the 
parlor, in the glen, or a ride until the eight

[Column 2]
o'clock bath bell rings for those at that hour.
At 9 30 the bell announces the time for all
to retire to their rooms for the night. Last
Monday evening the son of the Drs. Glea-
son, Mr. Edward Gleason and bride held a 
reception here, having just returned from
their wedding tour. The Cure and grounds
were all aglow with the various colored
Chinese lanterns; sweet music wafted
through the soft evening air from the up-
per verandah and the parlor decorated with 
ground pine and ferns was filled with illus-
trious and gay guests waiting their turn to 
wish "many days of happiness" to the 
sweet faced bride in blue silk and soft laces,
and the proud groom, who fan in hand
gallantly and lovingly supported and fan-
ned the woman of his choice. In Mrs.
Wales office was arranged the beautiful
bridal gifts of silver, choice china and glass,
pictures, pearl opera-glasses and an elegant
black marble clock, which all hoped would
never cease to tick through all their days of 
united joy. The dining-room hung around
with evergreens and bedecked with flags
of the Union, was filled with merry strains
of music which soon won all to look or to
take part in the graceful cotillion or giddy
waltz. No refreshments were served, but
iced lemonade flowed freely at all the side
tables. Among the guests of note were
Rev. Thomas R. Beecher with his charming
wife and adopted daughter, Mr. and Mrs.
Samuel L. Glemens ("Mark Twain",) Miss
Virginia Townsend of Boston, an authoress,
Dr. Harsha, author of "Life and Summer"
etc., Mrs. Moe, (whose poems W. C. Bryant
has praised,) Dr. Up. De. Qupp's beautiful
wife, and a number more of the first citi-
zens of Elmira. The evening was one of
unusual pleasure to all.
	The weather to-day is very cool for June,
many of the patients requiring a fire in
their rooms, while others seek the genial
atmosphere of the parlor fire.
	I expect to spend a few days with my
sisters and brothers in Bloomington, Ind.,
and then I hope to hie me to my mountain
home as fast as the laggard steam car will
carry me. I go home heart hungry and
soul starved to feast on the society of my
dear family and friends. As surely as the
temporal economy will starve without bread
so will the soul on scientific knowledge
without spiritual food. I do not say I have
been barren of spiritual gifts for I know the
blessing of the Lord has been with me to
sustain and help me day by day. I did not
come east to preach the Gospel, but I know
I have many times and in many ways bro-
ken down prejudices against my people. It 
has often been said to me "I am glad I have
me you, for I shall always feel differently
now towards your people." When I first
came here all were very genial until in
answer to "where is your home?" I said
"Salt Lake City," like wild fire it went the
rounds "she's a Mormon," when at once
the atmosphere almost went to zero, I was
thereafter received with freezing calmness,
arched eyebrows, and threefourths angle of
shoulder and sometimes a quiet good morn-
ing. I quite as calmly accepted the change
but fervently prayed to the Lord to let truth
triumph, and now the change is marvelous,
pleasant smiles and greetings, warm shakes
of the hand, invitations to visit them in 
their rooms, and interview after interview
requested, and the most intelligent of the 
ladies greet me on all sides. Only a day or
two ago I was closeted with three ladies for
two or more hours answering as rapidly as
possible their eager questions and explain-
ing to my best ability the principles of our 
faith. The conversation was continued
over to another day because the bath girl

[Column 3]
came for the ladies to take their baths.
They told me it was not curiosity that
prompted them, but said with some degree
of earnestness "We want to know the truth,
and we like you; we have read the books
and heard the lectures against your people,
and now we are glad to talk with some one
who thoroughly believes in the faith."
They said they never heard of any elders
preaching in that part of the country, and
when I told them my husband expected to
preach in these parts they said they should 
certainly go to hear him or any elder they 
could hear of. In listening to them I 
thought verily the Lord is using the books
and lectures of apostates as scourges to 
rouse and awaken the people to look about
themselves and inquire "where is the
truth?"—a question when once thoroughly
fastened in the mind, gives some promise
that the truth will be found—it seems nec-
essary that the inferior who have no light
should sound the "gong" to awaken the
sleepers so that the teachers possessed of
light may have the full benefit of their at-
tention and quickened faculties.
	The Dr's. Wales, (Mr. and Mrs.) are un-
wearied in their attentions and care of all
around them and are admirable and suc-
cessful physicians. Dr. Gleason with her
placid and intelligent face, is sweet assur-
ance itself to her patients that all will be
well with them.
	I fear the length of this epistle is out of
all propriety, but since I have passed the
Rubicon as it were, and have rested a little,
I want to say as much too much, as before
too little.
	With the earnest hope that I shall soon
be able to join with the faithful my mite to-
wards building up the Kingdom of God, I
subscribe myself your sister in the Gospel,
