			[CONTINUED.]

	Now gentlemen and ladies we will tell
you of the root of this polygamic or patri-
archal tree. In Isaiah xi chapt. 10th verse,
"And in that day there shall be a root of
Jesse, which shall stand as an ensign for the
people; to it shall the Gentiles seek; and
his rest shall be glorious." And in Ro-
man's xv chapt. 12th verse the Apostle con-
firms what Esaias had said; and in Revela-
tions v chapt. 5th verse, "And one of the
elders said unto me weep not, behold the
Lion of the tribe of Juda, the root of Da-
vid hath prevailed to open the book, and to
loose the seven seals thereof." I am Alpha
and Omega the beginning and the end, the
first and the last. And again in the 16th
verse, he says "I am the root and the off-
spring of David, the bright and morning
star." It would be well for those who are
so anxious to destroy this remarkable tree,
which has survived so many ages and
sprung up again afresh when all vestige of
it seemed obliterated, to notice the revela-
tions of God to St. John in the 18th and
19th verses of the last chapter as follows,
"If any man shall add unto these things
God shall add unto him the plagues that
are written in this book; and if any man
shall take away from the words of the book
of this prophecy, God shall take away his
part out of the book of life, and out of the
holy city etc.
	"Now if Christ is the root of David, then
David in the beginning was the offspring
of God, and in the second place Jesus was

[Column 2]
the offspring of David, which makes their
relationship very complicated; and if he is
the root of David he must of necessity be
the root of all the polygamic patriarchs
from Adam down to David, which is a pos-
itive demonstration that Jesus Christ is the
root of this polygamical, patriarchal tree.
This being the case I see no consistent
course left for you to pursue, who have set
yourselves to destroy it, except to suspend
all further proceedings until Jesus our Re-
deemer makes His second appearance. He
has declared through the mouths of all His
holy prophets, and also by His own mouth,
when upon the earth, that in the last days
He would come in power and great glory,
with all His heavenly hosts to reign on
earth a thousand years. And permit me
to tell you gentlemen and ladies that when
that day comes, you will behold this glor-
ious, this remarkable, this everlasting po-
lygamic tree in its full and complete perfec-
tion, root and branches united. Then will
be the fitting time for you to try to arrest
its growth and utterly destroy it.
	Let me warn you and advise you to look
well to your ways, for the Lord has said His
saints should overcome, and that He would
put all their enemies under His feet.
	And now having given you a brief sketch
of this patriarchal tree, which is so offen-
sive and obnoxious to you who have such
refined tastes that you prefer something ten-
der and fragile, something unable to sup-
port its own weight, to this strong and
grand old tree, that has withstood the ra-
ging storms of centuries upon centuries and
could not be obliterated; let me deliver
unto you my testimony, and declare unto
you that I know of a truth that this princi-
ple of patriarchal marriage emanated from
heaven; and that we as a people practice it
because it is a command direct from God
through Joseph Smith the prophet, who
died a martyr to the truth, as did many of
the former prophets. And we do firmly
believe and know by the spirit bearing wit-
ness that to disobey this command we must
incur the displeasure of an offended God,
and cut ourselves short of an eternal salva-
tion in the celestial kingdom of God.
	As American citizens entitled to all the
privileges of citizenship we claim the right
to worship God according to the dictates of
our own consciences, and according to the
laws of the Constitution.
	If those holding the reins of govern-
ment will turn a deaf ear to our petitions
and dare defraud us of the rights to which
we are entitled under the framing of the
constitution, then it only remains for us to
take an appeal to the high courts of heaven
where God is the Judge of all. In Him
we implicitly trust, knowing that eventu-
ally His cause will triumph.
				NANCY ARETE CLARK.
	Farmington, Davis Co., Utah,
						Jan. 21st. 1877.


"Mamma," said an inquiring urchin,
"the first man was Adam, wasn't it?" "Yes,
my dear." "Well, then, I see how we get
the word madam; for if the first man was
Adam, of course the first woman was Mad-
am."


