TRUTH.

	How beautiful is truth! In this world
where there is so much falsehood and deceit,
how beautiful is the true thought, word and
deed; like the sun smiling out amid an
angry storm, or the bright stars shining
through the heavy clouds; like friend clasp-
ing the hand of friend, like heaven upon
the earth. Yet truth in this day and age
of the world is rather unpopular: the hu-
man mind is prone to seek popularity; hence
to live pure lives we must choose a higher
standard and maintain truth and indepen-
dence of character, and learn and compre-
hend the truth for ourselves and not be
afraid to speak in its defence. Be true to
each other. One great fault with our nation-
al affairs is that on every side difficulties
arise and one party cries out against the
dishonest proceedings of the other; yet
both know they are equally in the fault.
These things prove to those whose eyes are
open to the "signs of the times," indica-
tions of political revolution. On every
hand we meet deception, honesty appar-
ently is at discount; to listen to what is
termed business men, one would draw the
conclusion that money had become the ru-
ling power, the determined value of every
thing on earth.
	We should be advocates for truth and in-
telligence. Be honest, not because "honesty
is the best policy," but because it is a duty
we owe to God and man. The heart that
can be gratified by dishonest gain, the am-
bition that can be satisfied by dishonest
means, the mind that can be devoted to
dishonest purposes, must be of the worst
order. But every word has its weight.
"Truth crushed to the earth will rise again"
though often discouraged.
	Unity is the greatest principle of govern-
ment; would it not promote the peace and
welfare of all to carry out every principle

[Column 2]

of right, and discourage that which is
wrong? There would be but little com-
plaining, and the people would have entire
confidence in each other. Ther would be
no need of locking doors and making every
thing secure from theft, for there would be
no thieving, no one to wrong his neighbor.
True greatnes is always humble and gen-
tle, for it knows its power and realizes its
dignity. In good government there must
be decision of character; the world is waht
we make it; do we fully realize this all im-
portant fact? Have we ever paused long
enough to think seriously about it? We
sometimes murmur at fate, because we are
not as talented or as wealthy as some one
else; forgetting that God in His infinite
mercy has created us as we are for some
wise purpose. Wealth is transitory and lia-
ble to take wings and fly away; a beautiful
face is also transitory. There is a higher,
nobler beauty that emanates from a meek
spirit that will alst as long as life itself,
only becoming more refined in purity as
we grow older.
	Our success in life depends to a great ex-
tent on the talents we possess, but surely
we should not blame Dame Nature or ac-
cuse her of partiality, in not endowing us
with higher talents, while those we already
possess lie dormant, growing rusty from
neglect. Those who would attain to real
greatness, should keep themselves true to
their consciences and their Creator. Shun
the society of the impure, remember that
even the best characters can be injured by
associating with those who are corrupt.
There is nothing which binds heart to
heart so closely as truth.	Truth is eternal.
	M. J. C.
East Bountiful, June, 1877.


