			HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE MEDICAL Class: A fair attendance,met
as per appointment on Wednesday, July 11,
and were addressed by Mrs. Zina D. Young and
Mrs. C. M. Barlow. It is hoped a larger num-
ber will come forward and interest themselves
in the important study of obstetrics.
	WE HAVE had a pleasant call from Elder
Henry Grow and Elder A. M. Musser, returned
missionaries. These brethren have been trav-
eling in Penn. Elder Grow's relatives were
very hospitable and courteous to himself and
other Elders whom he introduced to them.
They held some very interesting meetings and
were introduced to many influential and wor-
thy people with whom they discussed Mormon-
ism and the political and social interests of
Utah. Some other items of their travels will
be given in our next number.
	PREPARATIONS FOR the coming Jubilee on
the 24th of July. It will no doubt be interest-
ing to the readers of the EXPONENT to have an
idea of a few of the leading items furnished,
which have been kindly supplied by Br. Chas.
F. Williams, Chairman of the Decoration
Committee. There will be 18,000 feet of fes-
toons, each one weighing over 100 lbs, and
measuring 40 feet; the whole, 300 in number,
will weigh 37,000 lbs. One million flowers
(artificial) made under the superintendence of
Mrs. Annie Cross and her lady assistants. The
flowers are held together by 13 1/2 miles of fine
wire. The festoons are arranged with pine
and cedar brush.
	The ladies of the Floral Committee will be
pleased to receive all the assistance available
from the various wards, as there is much to be
done yet, and but little time to do it in.
							W. WILLIS.
	THE DESERET Silk Association met pursu-
ant to adjournment at the Fireman's Hall,
Salt Lake City, July 6th, 1877; Mrs. Zina D.
Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young gave a brief report of her trav-
els in the south. She had talked considerably
on silk raising, and found that a good spirit
prevailed and a lively interest was manifested
in this branch of home industry. Many were
planting out trees and cuttings. She had sent
considerable mulberry seed to different parts
of the Territory. She advised those raising
worms this year to save a little more seed
than they would need themselves, as we had
run short this year, and the prospects were

[Column 2]
that we would require more another year, and
for those who have good healthy trees to save
the mulberry seed. It was a mission placed
upon the sisters at the late Conference at St.
George, and she felt like doing her part, and
advised those present to use their influence in
the same direction.
	Mr. Hulbert said our silk was the best in the
best in the world;he was a silk weaver,and had
woven silk from all parts of the world where
silk was raised. He had sent a sample of our
silk to Patterson, N. J., and received an ans-
wer that the parties would purchase all the
silk we could raise.
	The meeting was further addressed by Mrs.
Barney, and several others, after which a mo-
tion was made and carried that the Association
send a copy of our pamphlet to every Presi-
dent of a Relief Society in the Territory with
a request that they make good use of the same,
this being done for the sole purpose to further
the work along.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Friday in
August, at 3 p. m.
