THE ELECTIVE FRANCHISE IN
			UTAH.
SUGGESTED BY MRS. LIVERMORE’S RE-
	MARKS AT THE NEW YORK CONVEN-
	TION.

 I don’t doubt Mrs. Livermore is an ex-
cellent woman, but she does not understand
the women of Utah. She says that in Utah
women vote.  To be sure we do; every sen-
sible and just man knows that taxation
without representation is tyranny and op-
pression. Don't women have to pay taxes
if they have any property? Ask the tax
collector, you know what his answer would
be. Mrs. Livermore says we are ticketed.
This is indeed news. She says both men and
women receive a number. Do we?
Mrs. Livermore seems to know more about
those tickets than we do. I have never
seen one of them, although I have voted
ever since the women were given the right
of Franchise in this Territory. Where
shall I look fot those tickets, on the backs,
on the hats or where? And echo answers
where! When I have voted it has been be
-cause it was my honest conviction it was
for the best man. Although we are only
women we will not be driven like a flock of
sheep at the will of the driver. When
next I vote I shall be looking for my num-
ber. Every man in the states votes ac-
cording to his honest convictions, don't he?
Especially the working men and the de-
pendents on another man's smiles or
frowns? They are not ticketed, Oh, no!


They are all free !! Yes free to go without
their daily bread if they don't vote as their
employers wish. In Utah gentlemen (?)
don't go about buying up the votes of the
lowest rabble, and the half-idiotic inebre-
ate, the pay "free drinks" Is this the
style in Utah? No it is not. Men or wo-
men vote just as they please. Any decent
person passing the places where the polls
are held in the states are shocked and dis-
gusted with the sights and sounds,and will
hurry away as fast as possible.
	Mrs. Livermore says, "the women don't
want to change." What can she mean? Is
it our husbands? If so, we beg to inform
her we are not "Free Lovers," but believe
most emphatically in chastity. She asserts
we women "do just as the men want us to."
Does she mean to imply we are not capable
of doing our own thinking? She also says
we obey our religious convictions" as
though she pitied us. Is it not right that
we should? Is it any sign of imbecility?
The Roman Catholic nun follows her re-
ligious convictions when she takes the vail,
yet she is not considered an idiot. I have
lived in Utah eighteen years and never
known any woman to die of a broken
heart. I will tell you what I have seen;
noble, brave, strong-hearted women in po-
lygamy living the lives of saints in deed,
and dying the death of the righteous, leav-
ing the world better for having lived in it.
	Well although so much has been written
and said about the Women of Utah, we are
still a "sealed book" to the world.
	MARY.
Grantsville, July 2, 1876.


[Column 1]

