	PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co., June 29, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Report of the ninth annual meeting of
the Relief Society of this place, held May
26th, 1877.

[Column 3]
	An invitation was extended to the pres-
idents and officers of the Relief Societies
and Retrenchment Associations of St.
Charles and Bloomington; also the members
of the Paris Retrenchment Association.
We were favored with the company of
President C. C. Rich, Bishops Budge, Horne
and several other brethren. Appropriate
speeches were delivered by the President
of the Paris Relief Society, Mrs. Julia
Lindsay, and her Counselors, Mrs. Elizabeth
Collings and Maria Rich, also by President
C. C. Rich, Bishops Budge, Horne and oth-
ers. A report of the condition of the so-
ciety for the past five years was reach which
spoke well for the liberality of the mem-
bers; all were well satisfied with the pro-
gress which had been made. Many inter-
esting remarks were made on very import-
ant subjects.
	The members of the Paris Retrenchment
Association presented President Julia Lind-
sey with a beautiful picture, as a token of
their affection and regard for her. She re
sponded in a pleasant little speech, asking
God to bless us all, and enable her to live
in such a manner as to retain the good will
of the sisters.
	As a society we move slowly along, alle-
viating the wants of the poor, and giving
words of comfort to those whose hearts are
weighed down with woe and sorrow, en-
couraging them to look up to the Giver of
life, for His loving hand is over us contin-
ually, even in chastening us. and if we im-
part comfort to others God will impart a
portion of it to our own hearts.
	The day's proceedings were followed by
a ball in the evening, the hall being beau-
tifully decorated for the occasion. All
passed off pleasantly, joy and gladness
beamed from every countenance.
	The health of the people in this settle-
ment is good. As yet the crops look well,
but grasshoppers are very numerous. En-
ergetic measures are being, adopted to de-
stroy them and thus save the crops. I
would further state that under the superin-
tendence of our worthy Bishop William
Budge, in the mercantile, and other depart-
ments of co-operation, we continue to grow
in wealth and strength. The EXPONENT
is read, with interest in our meetings.
	Wishing the paper success, and all institu-
tions of improvement, I remain,
		Yours Respectfully,
				ALICE M. RICH,
						Secretary.


FORMATION OF MINERALS.--Hawley has
made further examination of the liquids
contained in mineral cavities. He finds
that the liquid carbon dioxide present varies
considerably—from 27 27° to 33.7° C.—in
its critical point in different mineral speci-
mens, often varying in different cavities in
the same mineral specimen. The presence
of this substance in sapphire and topaz
leads him to the supposition that these
minerals may have been formed by the ac-
tion of aluminum fluoride or chloride upon
calcium carbonate at high pressures, produ-
cing alumina and carbon dioxide. Where
water is also present in the cavity, it would
seem that the reaction had taken place in
presence of moisture. As to the diamond,
the author thinks that this mineral is the
result of the action of reducing agents up-
on very highly compressed carbon dioxide
at temperatures above its critical point—a
condition of things which suggests a new
direction for speculation and experiment.


