NOTES AND NEWS.

	ROCHESTER, N. Y., June 20, five young
ladies were graduated at the Wells College,
Aurora, Commencement.
	THE FRENCH journals report that Patti is
to sing in America this winter at $2,000,
gold, per night, and that Nicolini, who, of
course, goes with her, will have $1,000
nightly.
	Mrs. Z. R. Plumb has published a book
account of the six years in New York which
she devoted to teaching light gymnastics.
It is autobiographic, historic, unique and
interesting. Mrs. Plumb is now at Holley,
New York, still engaged in her favorite
work.
	MISS HELEN Mar, of Boston, has invent-
ed a Commode Dressing Case—an ingenious
arrangement to economize space in small
rooms. In this contrivance such appurten-
ances as a bureau, wash-stand, etc., with all
conveniences, are brought together in one
piece of furniture. This invention having
been patented, is now in the market, and
reflects great credit upon the inventor.—
Ex.
	ONE OF THE TWELVE.—Five years ago,
twelve women, in Rochester, New York,
called public attention to the disfranchised
condition of women by an attempt to assert
their own right to vote. One of these,
Mrs. Hannah Mosher, who was a sister of
Susan B. Anthony, has lately died after
much suffering in Leavenworth, Kansas.
Mrs. Mosher was an earnest, resolute wo-
man, who had the courage to maintain her
opinions.—Ex.
	IN LONDON, June 18, the case of Charles
Bradlaugh and Mrs. Annie Besant, the free-
thought advocate, who were arrested some
time since on a charge of printing and pub-
lishing a pamphlet alleged to be of an im-
moral character, which was adjourned to
allow the defendants time to prepare their
defense, was begun before Lord Chief-Jus-
tice Cockburn and a special jury. The so-
licitor General spoke, condemning the book
as indecent. Mrs. Besant replied, defend-
ing the book and denying that it was ob-
scene. The trial was unfinished at the ad-
journment of the court. Since the begin-
ning of the prosecution the circulation of
the book has increased from 700 copies
yearly to 100,000 copies.
	TIDAL WAVE AND EARTHQUAKE.—
Elder Richard G. Lambert writes from the
Sandwich Islands, June 13—
	"We had quite a tidal disturbance here
on the 10th of last month, resulting in the
destruction of much property and loss of
life. The sea receded and came up again
about every ten minutes, going out past
low water mark and coming up past high
water mark. In some places the tidal wave
went up over the land, sweeping all before
it. Part of the town of Halo was swept
away, or rather carried inland, and quite a
number were drowned. On the 31 of May
there was quite a severe shock of earth-
quake on the Island of Hawaii. It was
sufficiently powerful to throw down all the
stone walls and houses.—Ex."


