			WORK FOR WOMEN.

	Work to be done! Yes! Work for Women!
Work that requires energy, activity, resolution
and courage. Work that will not admit of de-
lay. Work in the present. Work in the fu-
ture. Practical work that will necessitate
method in its execution. Work for which wo-
men must be trained, educated and cultivated
physically, mentally, morally and spiritually.
Work that will require united combination
and concentration of thought, influence and
effort. The serious persecutions inflicted upon
this people and which women have borne a
proportionate share of, the rigorous and bitter
experience through which Mormon women
have passed, has fitted them as nothing
else ever could, for the life-work, most
peculiar in its nature that is resting upon them
in assisting to further the plans and designs of
the Almighty in the great labor of the latter
days, which is to bring about the regeneration
of mankind and the final redemption of the
dead.
	There are those who find it hard to endure
the ridicule and censure heaped upon them
by the world, in pursuing the path of self-sac-
rifice and denial, and feel that their heroism
must draw forth sympathy if not admiration;
but would that give the impetus that criticism
and censure calls out? And the question arises
in the mind, would the sympathy of the world
help the Saints in the path they are walking?
Would it help women? We do not believe it
would. Perhaps they would begin to feel that
really their lot was hard, and thereby lower the
standard of excellence, and succumb to the
sympathizing hand held out in seeming char-
ity. This would weaken nobility of purpose
and real heroism of character. Mormon wo-
men do not need sympathy from the world,
and they should not accept it, much less seek
for it.
	If at any time laws are rigorously enforced
against this people, or measures carried that
are offensive to the sense of justice and honor,
or would bring them into bondage, and genuine
help or assistance is given to hinder persecu-
tion, then it is only a duty to be truly grateful
for such real help; or if any person has suffici-
ent courage or honesty of character to lift their
voice or pen to do good to this people, or speak
in their defense, none should be ungrateful in
acknowledging such legitimate acts of kind-
ness. Otherwise it is noble to stand aloof from
any offers of sympathy held out, for they
simply degrade those who accept them. What
is all the honor and adulation of the world good
for, let alone their miserable pity for the "poor
down-trodden women of Utah?" They have
no real power to lift the fallen, if they have
why not reach out the hand of true charity

[Column 2]
nd seek to save those of their own faith, of
their own class (of their own blood perchance]
whom their social laws and Christian pride
and cruelty drive to desperation and plunges
into the depths of misery?
	Depend upon it there is no time to waste in
receiving sympathy were it ever so genuine;
they young Ldies of Utah are far above any
sympathy the world has to give, and there is
work for them to do, a great and glorious work,
and they should be preparing themselves for
it and be so constantly occupied and so
completely absorbed in its contemplation, as to
have no room for such sympathy as the world
would offer them. A sympathy that would
bring them into such bondage as the world are
in, and from which they see no clear avenue to
escape—the bondage of sin and crime. But
through obedience to a higher law revealed to
the saints in this day and age, the social con-
dition of men and women may be improved,
and the Lord desires to accomplish it, other-
wise there could not be a people prepared to
meet Him at His coming.


[Column 1]
