BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	"But mighty nature bounds as from her birth—
	The sun is in the heavens, and life on earth;
	Flowers in the valley, splendor in the beam,
	Health in the gale, and freshness in the stream."
		BYRON'S LARA.
	On every hand we behold the beautiful
that which calls forth from us serious
thoughts, admiration and aspirations, of a
healthful tone and an elevating character.
In the pictures which surround us there are
always subjects which cheer and inspire,
which actually preach to us forcibly, in
characters which the intelligence within us
comprehends, although perhaps indefinable
in expression. Nature in her truly elegant
simplicity is the foundation of all education.
The lessons taught us in this simple fashion
are lasting, for they speak to the heart
more than the head; and it is the educa-
tion of the heart that is most refining, and
that is likely to be most neglected.
The impressions made upon us by partic-
ular out-door scenes, rural or sublime, as
they present themselves upon certain occa-
sions, in certain lights and shades, and at
the various seasons, bring to bear not only
the happy association of the time and place,
and force us to remember them ever after-
wards with pleasurable feelings, but they
speak to our inmost souls of what is real,
and far more positive and tangible than the
invention of man in his wisdom can pro-
duce. The artistic excellence of the works
of the Infinite so far surpass all that man
has done,or can do, that we are lost in won-


[Column 1]

der at the thought, and feel that there
must exist higher laws and more advanced
principles of science by which the great
structure of the universe has been reared,
and holds its mighty equipoise. The laws
and principles of men are transitory, those
of nature are enduring, possessing the
germ of life that is eternal, and capable of
endless reproduction. One of the most elo-
quent and touching sermons of our blessed
Savior was suggested from the "lilies of the
field." How insignificant is all the wisdom
of the wise men of the earth, when com-
pared with one eternal principle of the In-
finite.
	There is a kinship and fellowship with
nature that all intelligent and honest heart-
ed persons must be conscious of, though
some may possess it in a fuller or more ex-
alted degree than others. The love which
is spontaneous in our souls for flowers
and shrubs and verdure, brings to our 
hearts a freshness corresponding to their
sweetness and simplicity. One must cer-
tainly be better in feeling, better in life,
from continually coming in contact, and 
being associated with scenes and images of 
beauty. Every mother who desires her
child to possess fineness of soul, and aspira-
tions of the most exalted nature should
surround her home with flowers and shrubs
and foliage, for they beget and foster influ-
ences that will grace childhood with pleas-
antness, mellowing and smoothing much
that would otherwise be rough, dreary and
hard. Point out to the children the beau-
ties of scenery, implant in their natures an
admiration for it, express to them your own
love for it, and your own thoughts concern-
ing it, and let them understand the charm
it carries with it to the soul of the be-
holder. In such simple fashion you may
help to make home pleasant, and develop
your own powers of expression, while you
call forth from them the love of the beauti-
ful, and educate them in the lessons which
nature teaches.
	The exquisite touches of beauty and col-
oring of all nature's landscapes bespeak the
finished culture and polish of a hand and
brain that transcend all mortality, and ought
to engender a consciousness in every per-
son that possesses a spark of innate living
divinity of that immortality of the soul for
the positive knowledge of which every in-
telligent being yearns.
	What grandeur of thought is suggested
by the association of strong, majestic old
trees, by stupendous and lofty mountains,
and vast ledges of rugged and ragged or
moss-grown rocks; what exquisite tender-
ness and gentleness by the lovingly cling-
ing tendrils of some luxuriant unbrageous
vine. And who that has ever dwelt by the 
seashore can forget the surging and mur-
muring of the great deep, and the language
it seems to speak to the soul. The charm
and attraction linger with those who have
been reared by its waters, and they recall it
in dreams and memories to the most dis-
tant period of their lives.
	These lessons which nature teaches alike
to all, open up avenues of thought that
carry us backward to past ages and forward
as far as the vision if the mind can extend.
	There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
		There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
	There is society where none intrudes
		By the deep sea and music in its roar.
	I love not man the less but uature more
		From these our interviews in which I steal
	From all I may be, or have been before,
		To mingle with the universe and feel
	What I can ne'er express yet cannot all conceal.
		CHILDO HAROLD.
The beauties and sublimities of nature

[Column 2]

that we continually behold around us on
every side are to all mankind a perpetual
miracle, that no human mind can ever
wholly solve without divine assistance; and
while they call forth our most sublime ad-
miration, we involuntarily exclaim, "How
wonderful are Thy works' Lord God Omnip-
tent!" 
	S. L. City, July 9, 1877.


