HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Excellent recipe for children for summer com-
plain, teething, etc. Take one ounce of anise
seed and steep it thoroughly; strain it boiling hot
over one-half ounce of Turkish rhubarb grated
fine, add one-quarter of an ounce of carbonate of
soda, one-half pound of sugar, and one pint of
Jamaica rum. Give in small doses, according to 
the age and constitution of the patient; for a very
young child one-half teaspoonful three or four
times a day—for an older one a teaspoonful, and
so on.
	Leave off the Garters.—Children shonld never
wear garters, as the stockings can be perfectly
well kept up by an attachment of elastic strips to
the waistband. If garters are worn it is import-
ant to know how to apply them with the least risk
of harm. At the bend of the knee the superficial
veins of the leg unite and go deeply into the under
part of the thigh beneath the hamstring tendons.
Thus a ligature below the knee obstructs all the
superficial vein; but if the obstruction is above,
the hamstring tendons keep the pressure off the
veins which return the blood from the legs. Un-
fortunately, most people, in ignorance of the above
facts, apply the garter below the knee. Elastic
bands are the most injurious. They follow the
movements of the muscles and never relax their
pressure upon the veins. Non-elastic bands dur-
ing muscular exertion become considerably relaxed
at intervals and allow freer citculation of the
blood.—Popnlar Science Monthly.
	Electricity as a Remedy.—I think the use of
electricty by anybody at present to be experi-
mental. I doubt if there is a man or a woman liv-
ing who can foretell what will be the result from
its use in any case. In the first place, nobody
knows what it is, nor does anybody know any-
thing about it except from its effects. That a 
substance, so called, exists in nature is a fact, but
what its uses are nobody knows. Science has not
evolved the truth in respect to it in this direction.
How to use it remedially, therefore, is not known
at present as a certainty. That a great many per-
sons have been benefitted by its use is not at all
to be questioned; because facts are always to be
received. That a great many persons also have
been greatly injured in its use is not a whit less a
fact. These two facts placed against each other
balance each other, and should satisfy anybody
that whoever uses it, or receives its use, must em-
ploy it or accept it at a risk. In my professional
life I have had a great many persons come to me
for advice, who previous to coming had been under
electric treatment, and who felt they had been
greatly injured by it. Most of those persons to
whom it was administered were suffering from 
chronic congestion of the brain. It would not be
fair for me to say that the injuries they received
were owing to the use of electricity, because lts
use might have been badly administered, and be-
cause I think few persons are by scientific educa-
tion and practice sufficiently well informed as to
what are likely to be the results in any given case
of its use that I say what I do about it. Further
investigation and experiment may develop a
knowledge which shall render its use highly bene-
ficial. When such attainment is secured then it is
to be a matter of rejoicing. At present if I were
suffering from congestion of the brain I should by
no means consent to its exhibition on my own per-
son, unless he who desired to administer it was a 
man of such experience and scientific culture as to
create in me a firm belief that he knew what he
was about, and if he did not help me he would
not harm me.- Journal of Health, Danesville,
N. Y.


In Japan boys become men at fifteen and
receive new names. Many of the youth in
America wear their good names out before
they are fifteen, and are in deplorable want
of new ones.


ORIGIN OF QUARRELS.—The sweetest,
most clinging affection is often shaken by
the slightest breath of unkindness, as the
delicate rings and tendrils of the vine agi-
tated by the faintest air that blows in sum-
mer. An unkind word from one beloved
often draws blood from many a heart which
defy the battle-ax of hatred or the keenest
edge of vindictive satire. Nay, the shade,
the gloom of the face familiar and dear,
awakens grief and pain. These are the lit-
tle thorns which, though men of a rougher
form may make their way through them
without feeling much, extremely incom-
mode persons of a more refined turn in their
journey through life, and make their trav-
eling irksome and unpleasant.


SMALL THINGS.- Neglect of small things
is the rock on which the great majority of
the human race have split. Human life
consists of a succession of small events, each
of which is comparatively unimportant, and
yet the happiness and success of each man
depend upon the manner in which these
small events are dealt with. Character is
built upon little things—little things well
and honorably transacted. The success of a
man in business depends on his attention to
little things. The comfort of a household
is the result of small things well arranged
and duly provided for. Good government
can only be accomplished in the same way
-by well regulated provisions for the do-
ing of little things.-Smiles.


