								ANNIE W.


FARMINGTON, July 7th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place held their
Ninth Annual Meeting, June 12th, 1877, Presi-
dent Mrs. S. J. Holmes presiding. We were
honored with the company of Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, and Mrs. E. S. Barney,
from Salt Lake City; also some of the brethren
met with us. After singing and prayer, the
minutes of last meeting, financial report, and
the amount of wheat taken in since last Fall
(which was over a hundred bushels), were read,
giving general satisfaction.
	Miss E. R. Snow addressed the meeting, said
from hearing the minutes read she could see a
large growth of improvement since her last
visit. Spoke of the duty of both officers and
members in a society; said the teachers occupy
a very responsible position, there was none
more important. Encouraged home manufac-
ture; spoke of the silk that had already been
made in Farmington—the silk of which the
bonnet she had on was made, and wove here.
Advised the setting out of more mulberry
trees, that the business might be carried on
more extensively. Made many other good re-
marks. Blessed the sisters for their efforts
and in their good works.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke of the interest of
Sister Snow in trying to diffuse the spirit of
home industry among the people; said it was
necessary the sisters be united in their efforts,
but yet the women cannot accomplish much
unless they have the hand of encouragement
reached out to them by the brethren.
	Mrs. E S Barney said she had listened with
interest. Made some very good remarks, call-
ing the attention of the meeting to some
Church books; said some of the wards had a
ibrary, and thought it a good plan for every
society to buy the church books, so they could
be distributed among the people; for what
could be better for our soul's salvation than
leading good books. Said some might object
to buying them as the means might be needed
to build graanries and for other purposes; she
thought reading the books would help to build
them, for the people would get more of the
spirit of their religion, aud then when there is
a will there is always a way.
	The brethren also spoke a few minutes each:
said they had been edified in hearing the sis-
ters, for they were dictated by the Spirit of
God. Said this meeting had been a profitable
one, and asked God to bless those who had
ome to visit us.


President Holmes spoke a few words in con-
clusion. Said we would take a vote whether
we keep the books or not. It was decided to
buy them.
	Meeting was then adjourned, closing with
singing and prayer as usual.
	There has been constderable sickness and a
number of deaths here this last spring and
summer. On June 24th, Mrs. Matilda Peel,
aged sizty one years, died, having been ill for
seveal months. She was a teacher in the soci-
ety, and is very much missed as one of the
leading members of the choir to which she
belonged. Her husband, Benjamin Peel, died
April 24th, two months before she did, so they
were not long separated; he was some years
her senior.
