ST. GEORGE, June 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having read many of the reports of the
young ladies’ Associations and having
never reported ourselves here in St. George,
we thought a few lines from us as an Asso-
ciation might prove acceptable.
	There has been since our last Conference
a general re-organization throughout the
Southern Stake of Zion. Formerly there
was but one Young Ladies' Association for
all this city, which is composed of four
wards; but since the re-organization we
have one in each ward.
	On May 28th there was a meeting held in
the Fourth Ward Meeting House for the
purpose of organizing the young sisters of
that ward. The Presidency of this Stake,
with our Bishop, D. H. Cannon and his
counselors were present. The officers for
the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association were nominated and unani-
mously accepted as follows: Miss Dora L.
Young, President; Misses Libbie A. Snow
and Annie M. Woodbury, Counselors; Miss
Juie A. Ivins, Secretary; Miss Amy C. Cal-
kin, Treasurer.
	We have had three very interesting
meetings since our new organization, and a
good spirit seems to predominate among
the young sisters; they are trying to learn
more about their religion, and to get more
of the spirit of God in their hearts. We
edit a paper entitled "The Young Ladies'
Diadem," the first number of which was
read to-day in our meeting, and it can be
truly said that it exceeded all our expecta-
tions, and did credit to all the contributors,
and any young lady might be proud to have
her name in it. The subjects were well
chosen, and showed considerable talent, as
well as manifesting the spirit of our relig-
ion. We have forty-one names enrolled as
members the majority of whom attend reg-
ularly. We meet every Wednesday, and
edit our paper every two weeks. The Re-
lief Societies and Young Ladies Associa-
tions throughout the city, also hold a gen-
eral meeting the first Thursday in every 
month.
	The EXPONENT is an ever welcome vis-
itor to us, and we never get tired of perus-
ing its interesting columns.
	We remain your sisters,
			DORA L. YOUNG President,
			JUIE IVINS, Secretary.


An old bachelor was courting a widow,
and both sought the aid of art to give their
fading hair a darker shade. "That's going
to be an affectionate couple," said a wag.
"How so?" asked a friend. "Why, don't
you see that they are dyeing for each other 
already?" was the reply.


