OBITUARIES.

	RESUOLUTIONS OF sorrow offered by the Re-
lief Society of Huntsville Weber Co, to the
family of the deceased Mary Jane Hammond,
President of the Huntsville Relief Society and
wife of Bishop F. A. Hammond, who died
June 6th, 1877:
	Whereas, the hand of Divine Providence has
removed our beloved sister and president from
the scenes of her temporal labors, and the So-
ciety who acted under her counsel and profited
by her example are desirous of testifying their
respect for her memory and expressing their
earnest and affectionate sympathy with the
family deprived by this dispensation, of its be-
loved wife and mother,
	Resolved, That it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed to say that in regret-
ting her removal from our midst, we mourn
for one who was in every way worthy of our
respect and regard.
	Resolved, That we sincerely condole with
the family of the deceased on the dispensation
with which it has pleased Divine Providence
to afflict them, and commend them for con-
sideration to Him who orders all things for the
best, and whose hand dealings are meant in
mercy.
	Resolved that the heartfelt testimonial of
our sympathy and sorrow be forwarded to the
family of our departed sister by the secretary
of this meeting.
				MARY HALL, Secretary.
	ANN KEMPTON Brown, wife of Dr. J. L.
Dunyon departed this life Friday, June 22nd,
1877, at the Point of Mountain South, near
Draper. Deceased was the daughter of Abia
W. Brown and Abby Cadwallader of
Penn. Born April 13, 1831 in Damascus Col-
ombiana Co. Ohio. Baptized July 17, 1851 in
Council Bluffs or Kanesville, Pottowatamie
Co., Iowa. She and her aged mother gathered
with the saints in these valleys in 1853. De-
ceased was raised a quaker to which principle
she was ardently attached, but in early life be-
coming satisfied of the truth of the Great Lat-
ter-day work, she embraced it with all the in-
tensity of her generous nature with the de-
termination to live the life of a saint, and to
help to build up the cause of the Latter-day
Zion of God upon the earth. Every aspiration
of her soul was to do good; to feed the hungry,
clothe the naked, and to administer to] the
sick and afflicted was her chief delight; she


was a member of the Relief Society to which
she was greatly endeared and will ever live in
their remembrance. Her spirit was as pure as
mortals can possess, and her whole person and
all her everyday life bespoke the exquisite
character of her soul. She could not tolerate
the least semblance of profanity or vulgarity,
or any conduct deviating from the strict sense
of justice, honesty, purity and truth. She
held in highest regard the Celestial law as it
pertains to married life, she was anxious to
fulfill the law of her creation believing that
her Heavenly Father would sustain her upon
the earth until she had fulfilled her duties as
wife and mother. She was the mother of five
living children and of four who died in in-
fancy.
	In May 1875 after a very dangerous and lin-
gering illness of one year, immediately after
her recovery, (though at that time preparing
for a year's sojourn in the south country) she
determined if possible to resurrect the interest
of Silk Culture in Utah, and at once made ap-
plication for the use of President Young's co-
coonery and commenced operations. Her com-
plete snccess upon a large scale, gave a new
impetus to the silk-culture which has spread
through almost every town and hamlet of the
Territory. She has written some very inter-
esting articles upon the subject which have been
published and circulated to promote the man-
uftcture, in this her interest has been so asso-
ciated that her name will remain imperishable
in the history of the seri-culture in Utah.
She raised the worms, spun, reeled and colored
the silk in a variety of textures.
	She was a dear loving wife and companion
and mother in the highest and truest sense
that mortals are permitted to enjoy. Her
sweet voice and influence was a charm for
every disturbance among the children, and a
healing balm to soothe the impulsive spirits
around her, and it was only necessary to be
slightly acquainted with her to love her. Her
truly genial qualities will be remembered by
all her friends and they can but mourn her
loss and sympathize with her bereaved rela-
tives and family. She truly rests in peace,
freed from sickness and sorrow, pain and
death; she is in the society of her parents and
children and the saints that have gone before
to await the morning of the glorious Resurrec-
tion of the just, when she will again mingle
with the saints and help to build up the Holy
City and Temple of our God in which it will
be the happy lot of all the pure in heart to be
associated.
	Though we deeply mourn her loss, we rejoice
that her spirit is liberated from its frail tene-
ment, and we will affectionately cherish her
memory for her good deeds will forever live in
the remembrance of all who have at heart
the welfare of Zion, and especially the sister
who are uniting and combining their ener-
gies and abilities to assist in becoming a self-
ssutaining people.
		Yours Truly,
