Notes From the Field Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary Annual Membership Dues. Have you paid your annual membership dues for 1928? Annual membership dues should be paid in advance in January of each year. For example, the dues for 1928 should be paid in January, 1928. The dues should be sent to the stake secretary not later than February 28, and the portion due to the General Board should be sent to the General Secretary by March 31. Members, why not help your officers to make a record for your stake by being prompt in this matter? Liberty Stake. RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHER MY CREED I will be dependable. I will make prayerful preparation for my visits. I will make this duty a pleasure. I will leave my troubles at home. I will bring sunshine into the homes I visit. I will speak well of everyone. I will not gossip. I will not betray a confidence. I will seek to know the needs of the people I visit. I will be a mother in my district. I will attend my meetings. I will live worthy of this calling. Cache Stake?Children's Vacation. On invitation of Mrs. Lizzie B. Owen, president of the Cache stake Relief Society, a group of twenty-two children from families in whom the family welfare department of the Relief Society are actively interested, went to Logan, August 17, for a ten-day summer vacation. They were placed in the North Logan, Benson and Hyde Park wards, with families who had previously arranged with Mrs. Owen to receive these children and give them a delightful time in the country, with plenty of chance to romp and play in the open and an abundance of nourishing food. A number of these children were malnourished and considerably underweight, and all of them came from homes in which sickness or death of one parent, or some other unfortunate situation deprived them of many of the advantages children naturally enjoy in their NOTES FROM THE FIELD 39 own homes. The visit of these children in the homes of our Relief Society women is, therefore, an opportunity from the standpoint of health and education. The children all came back looking refreshed and some were noticeably "filled out." The girls displayed dolls and the boys proudly showed pocket knives which had been given them. The children were also given fruit and delicacies to take home and many of them were given clothing and stockings by the families whom they visited. The relatives of these children, as well as the family welfare department, appreciate very much the cooperation of Mrs. Owen, together with her Relief Society women, and the General Board, in making this summer vacation possible for these children. California Mission (San Jose Branch.) The San Jose Relief Society, though small, having a membership of only 15, is active and energetic. As a sample of SAN JOSE BRANCH, CALIFORNIA MISSION their work we find that during the year the average attendance has been 76%, and the number of visits by visiting teachers, 208. Emery Stake. On July 10, 1927, the Relief Societies of the Emery Stake held a successful and interesting conference at Ferron. The attendance was good, and a peaceful spirit prevailed throughout the day. A program of musical selections and readings, together 
 with the following subjects, were given: enlistment committee, charity and general funds and membership dues; the course of study: theology, social service, child welfare, and civic pride. The presidents of all of the ward Relief Societies in the stake, except one, reported their organizations as being fully organized and doing a good work. The members of the Society brought their lunch with them and had a very pleasant visit during the noon hour. The Emery stake Relief Society board lost one of its valuable workers in the death recently of Mrs. Jane Litster of Cleveland, who has been a most active worker on the board for a number of years, acting as stake class leader of literature since 1920. Mrs. Litster was loved wherever she was known, and admired as a woman of great faith and deep spirituality. Her implicit faith in God, and her strong testimony of the gospel characterized her whole life, and her influence for good was felt by all who knew her. Alpine Stake. Upon invitation of the presidency and stake board of Alpine stake, workers from every ward gathered in the stake tabernacle on a recent Tuesday afternoon where a fine program was rendered, including readings, grave and gay; vocal numbers, solos and part songs; and addresses by members of the board. Then followed a merry interval when prizes were given as follows: first a prize to the oldest sister present, won by a woman who had reached the venerable age of 82 years. Next a prize to the sister who had been a member of the Relief Society for the longest period, which was won by the same woman; not wishing to take two prizes she waived her right in favor of another sister who had been a member for very nearly as long a time as herself. Then a prize to the sister who had the largest family. This was given to a woman who had borne 18 children. The next prize offered was to the ward showing 100% of teacher's visits for five consecutive years. It was thought that this prize would not be claimed, but to everybody's surprise five wards responded, some of them having this exceptional record for more than five years. With every prize a little verse, composed by a member of the board, was given, and added much to the happy spirit of the occasion. After the exercises refreshments were served to all, and an opportunity given to shake hands and enjoy a social chat. Garfield Stake (Kingston Ward.) On a warm day in late August the Kingston ward held Mothers' and Daughters' Day. The event took place in the cool shade of Chesney Snow's grassy orchard. Games were played, including a carpenters' relay, in which the married women proved NOTES FROM THE FIELD 41 to be more adept at hammering and won the first five points; a running relay, in which the daughters won the next five points. Then there was a race in tire changing, which was won by the KINGSTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY daughters. There was a program next, followed by a delicious luncheon served cafeteria style. Liberty Stake (Eighth Ward.) The members of the Relief Society of the Eighth ward of Liberty stake keep up their fellowship during the Summer in various ways. In June, at the close of the business meeting, 59 women, under the able leadership of President Margaret Fetzer, visited the State Capitol. Most of them had never been in the building before. They were shown around by a guide, partook of a delicious luncheon and thoroughly enjoyed it all. At 4 o'clock on the morning of July 14, 51 members gathered at the chapel, where they took busses for Logan, arriving there at 8 o'clock. They were received at the Logan temple by President Joseph R. Shepherd. They all went through the temple, doing work from the charity list of that temple. Later they enjoyed luncheon at a down-town cafe, and visited the Utah Agricultural College and other points of interest before returning home. They are already making plans for an excursion to the St. George temple next Summer. The women of this ward have made it a custom for a number of years to give each expectant mother who has been a member of the Society for one year, a dainty pink baby quilt. 
 Deseret Stake (Class Leaders' Convention featured). All the wards in the Deseret stake have been holding Relief Society meetings regularly during the summer months, following suggestive plans made by the stake board. Contest work among the visiting teachers in the clean-up work and genealogical work have been featured to stimulate interest and keep members active. On August 3, a class leaders' convention of all the Relief Society class leaders, executive and special officers of all the wards in the stake was held in Delta under the direction of the stake board with an attendance of 83%. The morning meeting included talks on better teachers and better methods of teaching, with a half-hour of demonstration and general discussion clinching the important points. At noon the stake board served lunch to all the ward officers. At 2 p. m. Departmental work of the following groups was conducted: presidents, secretaries, organists and choristers, theology class leaders, literary class leaders, social service class leaders, and work committees. Here, under the direction of the stake leader, problems of the various departments were discussed. This convention was a source of encouragement and inspiration to stake as well as local officers; and as a result of it the stake will no doubt have more efficient teachers and more effective teaching than ever before, and the Relief Society as a whole will be put on a higher standing. Idaho Falls Stake. On July 30, 1927, the Idaho Falls stake Relief Society held a teachers' convention. All stake board members and 149 officers and teachers of local Relief Societies were present. At 10:30 a. m., the first meeting convened. After the usual opening exercises the following program was rendered: Address of Welcome.......... Relief Society Stake President, Clara Brunt Lincoln Ward Response to the Address of Welcome............. Mrs. Sarah E. Wright of the Lincoln Ward Vocal Solo, "I Know That My Redeemer Lives".... Mr. Maurice Morley "Why Teacher-Training in Relief Society?"............. Bishop Aubrey O. Andelin of the Idaho Falls Second Ward Violin Solo, "The Holy City"..................... Miss Virginia Lindsay Discussion of Teachers' Problems, "Appreciation of Calling"........ Mrs. Mayme Laird of the Idaho Falls First Ward "Needs of Ward Teaching"....... Mrs. Annie A. Fox of the Second Ward "Necessity of Music in Relief Society"............. Mrs. Astrid Morley of the Relief Society Stake Board "L. D. S. Worship"........... Mrs. Alice Hudman of the Coltman Ward At the close of this meeting a two-course luncheon was served, cafeteria style, and a get-acquainted social was enjoyed. Community singing was followed by a vocal duet, "The Twilight Hour," Mrs. Edna H. Brinton and Mary L. Hatch. Miss Norma Parnes, Home Demonstration Agent of the Extension Division of the University of Idaho, gave a talk and demonstration on the most becoming colors for different types. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 43 Sevier Stake. In August a very helpful teachers' convention was held. The subject of "Ward Teaching" was discussed under two headings: (a) What benefit is the teachers' visit to the family? (b) What benefit does the teacher receive from her visit? Six speakers, one for each ward, discussed the subject. There were also musical numbers and readings. In connection with the convention there was an elaborate flower display. Each ward was given a reward of merit for work in the flower display in the form of a yearly subscription to the magazine, Better Homes and Gardens. At the close of the convention the stake board served light refreshments. Shelley Stake. All of the wards of Shelley stake have been most active in the civic pride campaign this summer. The result of this activity is that the homes of the different wards have never before looked so clean and well-kept. Flowers have been planted much more extensively this year than ever before. In many homes flowers have taken the place of the weeds of previous years. A stake flower show was held in Shelley on August 23, each ward having a separate display of flowers. Prizes were given for first and second place in the display, Shelley First ward received the first place for the best display and Fifth ward, the second prize. First and second prizes were also given for best flower gardens in the stake. These were awarded to Mrs. L. P. Petersen of Woodville ward, first prize; and Mrs. Alzeda Lawrence of Shelley First ward the second prize. After the flower show was over the flowers were given to the stake "Old Folks Committee" who used them the next day in the annual old folks party. In connection with the flower festival a very splendid free evening's entertainment was given, consisting of two short plays which featured Relief Society work; with musical numbers and special dancing. Morgan Stake. The Morgan stake Relief Society board entertained all officers and members of the various wards of the stake at their annual social and luncheon at Como Springs, September 1, 1927. A flower exhibit was held in connection with the social. About 35 different varieties of home-grown flowers of every shade were on display, the bouquets being artistically arranged. Mrs. Matilda Peterson received first prize, and Mary Ann Smith second prize for most varieties, and Mrs. James Flaherty first prize, and Emma London second prize for gladioli. The prizes consisted of different varieties of bulbs. Since the civic pride campaign has been carried on by the Relief Society, the women of this county have been taking more interest in raising flowers. 
 REORGANIZATIONS Big Horn Stake. On July 31, 1927, the Big Horn stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Helen B. Croft, who has served faithfully as president for a number of years was honorably released with deep appreciation for her past labors. Mrs. Hazel N. Boyack was appointed president to succeed Mrs. Croft. Fremont Stake. The Fremont stake Relief Society was reorganized on August 14, 1927. On account of illness in her family Mrs. Lavina Walker found it necessary to withdraw from her position as president of the stake Relief Society, and she was honorably released. Mrs. Walker has worked untiringly in the Relief Society cause, and leaves her stake in excellent condition. Mrs. Marie M. Merrill was selected as the new president to fill the vacancy, with the following officers to assist: counselors, Mrs. Artemesia Romney and Mrs. Floretta Webster; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. M. May Grover; board members, Mrs. Hattie Rigby, Mrs. Elizabeth Stowell, Mrs. Nora Davis, Mrs. Ruby Stoker. Pioneer Stake. The Pioneer stake Relief Society was reorganized on August 28, 1927. Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, who has served as stake president for a number of years, found it necessary to retire and she was given an honorable release. Mrs. Lettie T. Cannon was appointed to succeed Mrs. Cutler, with Mrs. Edna Matson and Mrs. Florence M. Burton as counselors, and Mrs. Nora Hyde as secretary. For her excellent and efficient work, and in recognition of her radiant personality, Mrs. Cutler is loved and appreciated by all of the members of the stake. A delightful social affair in her honor was given Tuesday, September 13, at the home of Mrs. William T. Cannon by members of the stake board. The rooms of the Cannon home had been beautifully decorated for the occasion, and in addition to the members of the board there were present of the General Board, President Clarissa S. Williams, counselors Jennie B. Knight and Louise Y. Robison, the general secretary Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford and Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Others present included Mrs. Lettie T. Cannon, the incoming stake president, and her counselors. Covers were laid for 26. During the afternoon a delightful program was rendered, and Mrs. Cutler was presented with a token by the retiring board. Canadian Mission. President Charles H. Hart of the Canadian mission reports the appointment of Mrs. Lalene H. Hart as president of the Re- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 45 lief Societies of the Canadian mission. The Relief Societies of this mission are fortunate in having, as presiding officer, a woman who has had experience on the General Board. Mrs. Hart follows Mrs. Ida T. Quinney, who was released with her husband, President Joseph Quinney, Jr. Eastern States Mission. Miss Lola R. Bradford has recently been appointed president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern states mission, to succeed Miss Dicie W. Brimhall, the latter having been released as a missionary to return home. The work in this mission is of excellent character throughout. Salt Lake Stake The Salt Lake stake was reorganized September 25, 1927, Mrs. Vilate N. Bennion, who has successfully and efficiently served as stake president for a number of years found it necessary to resign on account of illness in her family, and was honorably released. Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams, counselor to Mrs. Bennion, and social worker at the Relief Society welfare department, was appointed to fill the vacancy caused by Mrs. Bennion's resignation. Salt Lake stake is very fortunate in securing the services of Mrs. Williams because of her experience as a missionary for the Church, as a stake worker for the Relief Society, and because of her training as a social service worker. For the last six years Mrs. Williams has been one of the valued workers in the family welfare department at Relief Society headquarters, where she has given efficient and faithful service, and where she is loved by her coworkers and by those whom she has assisted with their problems and burdens. Mrs. Williams' counselors are: Mrs. Marcia K. Howells and Mrs. Irene T. Seare, and her secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Sarah Twitchell. Boise Stake On September 18, the Boise stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Bessie G. Hale found it necessary to give up the work of the presidency and was honorably released. Mrs. Florence E. Lewis, a faithful and capable Relief Society worker was appointed president to succeed Mrs. Hale, with the following assistants: counselors, Mrs. Carmen B. Smith and Iva B. Ward; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Mary H. Bean. Mrs. Hale has served as president of the Relief Societies of Boise stake for eight years. She brought to her position training, personality and leadership, and these, with the faithful service she has given, have helped her to place her stake in the front ranks of the stakes of the Church. Guide Lessons for March LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in March) THE DISPENSATION OF THE FULNESS OF TIMES (CONTINUED) THE NEW SCRIPTURE 1. Some prophecies concerning it: 1. "Truth shall spring out of the earth'?so wrote the inspire psalmist more than twenty-five centuries ago. (Psalms 85:11.) 2. The ancient Prophet Ezekiel was commanded to foreshadow the preparation of a companion volume for the bible. (Ezekiel 37:15-21.) Back, far back before the Christian era, or even in the Mosaic dispensation the Lord declared to the Seer sold into Egypt that Judah and Joseph should have separate records, each of which should verify the truth of the other, "unto the confounding of false doctrines, and to laying down of contentions, and establishing peace." (II Nephi 3:12.) 3. God showed the book to Nephi before it was written. (I Nephi 13:38-40.) II. The Book of Gold: "The Golden Bible'?this nick-name given to the Book of Mormon has in it more than the scoffers ever dreamed of. The volume is doubly golden: (1) 'it was carved on metal plates, having the appearance of gold. ("Testimony of Eight Witnesses?Book of Mormon.) It is an abridgment from plates of brass, and of ore, and of gold. (See Brief Analysis of Book of Mormon, 1920 edition.) "The Plates were not pure gold, the plates of Nephi were made of ore, and Mormon also mentions ore as the material of which his plates were made. (I Nephi, 19:1, Mormon 8:5, Mosiah 28-11.) ('The ore,?possibly a copper alloy'. (From An Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon, p. 43, Sjodahl.) (2) The contents are golden truths, everlasting truths, truths most precious. (Jacob 1:2.) The new scripture was verily a bible?a book of fifteen books. (See names and order of books in Book of Mormon, 1920 edition.) The record contained the doctrines and doings of three minor gospel dispensations, the Jaredite, the Nephite, and the Messianic dispensations on this continent, and the story of two civilizations,