President of International Council of Women Celebrates Golden Wedding
During the time that our General Board representatives are attending the biennial conference of the National Council of
EDITORIAL 17
Women held in New York City, it is particularly gratifying to extend to the President of the International Council of Women, Lady Aberdeen, and her husband, Lord Aberdeen, felicitations on their golden wedding anniversary, which occurred November 7, 1927.
Lord and Lady Aberdeen have spent a harmonious wedded life together. Each has been called to prominent official positions and each has given the other splendid support. Two outstanding events marked the year 1927 for Lady Aberdeen, for, on March 14 of that year she celebrated her 70th birthday and on November 7 her golden wedding. Lady Aberdeen has served the International Council of Women long and well. The first period of her presidency covered the time from 1893 to 1899. At the Congress in London Mrs. May Wright Sewell, of the United States, was elected president and served in that capacity until the close of the Berlin Congress, in 1904. At that Congress Lady Aberdeen was again elected president and with the exception of the two years, from 1920 to 1922, when Madame Chaponniere-Chaix, of Geneva, filled the office, has held the position ever since. Such devoted service entitles her to the most thoughtful consideration.
We copy from the notes of the March Bulletin of the International Council of Women a note from Lady Aberdeen, referring to her illness in the early part of the year, that tends to reveal a good deal of her character:
"My first words this month must be words of deep and affectionate gratitude to the host of I. C. W. Friends who have sent to Lord Aberdeen and myself such touching messages of sympathy, concern, and good wishes during my recent illness.
"It is indeed an inspiration to receive such letters as those which have come to the House of Cromar during the last month, from many different parts of the world.
"It is a wonderful privilege to be permitted to work for great causes in company with comrades who show at such times as the present how strong are the links of personal attachment between women of so many races and countries who are bound together to carry on all our work for the I. C. W. In the spirit of the Golden Rule.
"By God's mercy I am allowed to remain with you all for a while longer, and since Lord Aberdeen, as I need not tell you, is a firm believer in the potentiality of the I. C. W. To accomplish its mission, as I am myself, I still hope to do all in my power to further that mission, although for a time that work must be done from my own home.
"Again, dear friends of the I. C. W., and of all the National Councils, accept heartfelt thanks from Lord Aberdeen and myself for all your goodness to me."
"Isabel Aberdeen and Temair."


On the occasion of the Golden Wedding, which occurred November 7, 1927, the International Council presented Lord and Lady Aberdeen with a beautiful motor car. In the editorial notes we find a paragraph which says:
"We have often wished to publish photographs in the Bulletin, but we have had to resist the temptation as our funds do not run to such extravagances. The Golden Wedding of the President, has, however, seemed to us a good occasion to make exception to this rule, and we therefore reproduce on our front page a photograph showing Lord and Lady Aberdeen at the door of the motor car that was given to them as a Golden Wedding present by many members of their large international family."
It is surely fitting after the long years of service, which always means great personal sacrifice, that Lady Aberdeen should receive this mark of recognition. The committee selecting the present should also be congratulated, for what could be more typical of the work of one who presides over an International Council than a vehicle that suggests travel to many parts of the world. We trust that Lord and Lady Aberdeen may live long to enjoy the present which has been extended with such hearty goodwill by all who are acquainted with her division of the International Council of Women.