GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 47 the Nephites and the Jaredites on the land choice above all other lands?America. This scripture which had silently, slumbered in the ground for more than twenty centuries is to "speak out of the ground;" through its coming forth, a long, long silence is to be broken; it is to speak for men long since dead, and for the living God; it is to come forth by a miracle, and go forth as a new witness for God, for the regeneration of a dwindled race and the enlightenment of a world. (See D. And C. 3:16-20.) III. The Guardian Messenger:;, Who he was: He was the last custodian of the record, and in the 421st year, A. D., he wrote the final chapter which, because of the promise it makes to the reader, is really a preface to the volume, a guide to the student. He was, after death, a spirit held in high esteem by the Savior, 'spoken of as an angel of authority by the Lord. (See D. And C. 27:5.) And although he lived on the earth long after the resurrection of Jesus, yet Moroni was evidently a resurrected being when he came to Joseph the Seer. (D. And C. 129.) "Question 4: How, and where did you obtain the Book of Mormon? "Answer: Moroni, the person who deposited the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, in a hill in Manchester, Ontario county, New York, being dead and raised again therefrom, appeared unto me, and told me where they were; and gave me directions how to obtain them. I obtained them and the Urim and Thummim with them, by the means of which I translated the plates; and thus came the Book of Mormon." (From the Elders' Journal, Joseph Smith, Jr., editor, Far West, Mo., July, 1838.) 2. His Special Mission: Wis was the special mission to prepare Joseph for the possession of the plates and deliver them to the seer with the Urim and Thummim and the breast plate, and assist in protecting them, receive them back into his own custody after the translation was finished, and evidently show the plates to three witnesses and testify to the divinity of the translation, and then become again the custodian of them. Some day, when knowledge covers the earth, they may be shown as material evidence of the blindness of those whose spiritual sight was blinded by bias, prejudice, and skepticism. See Testimony of the Witnesses, Book of Mormon. ) 3. His Masterly Management: 'Moroni, a messenger from God. What he did was more than marvelous, more than wonderful. It was work known as miracles. By his extended quotations to Joseph, Moroni gave evidence of being a student. His method of teaching and training marked him as an educator. He instructed when interest was intense, He reviewed; four times he 
 went over the first lesson. He encouraged; he warned; he trained for responsibility by a series of tests; he rewarded by aiding in' achievement of success; he punished by withdrawal of privileges. His requirements were of a character-developing nature; they called for both discipline in resistance and development in achievement. Joseph was not even to think of making money out of the book or the plates. He was not to show them except by permission, but he was to protect them, translate them and publish their contents. The mission of this mighty messenger is celebrated in song and statue. Few hymns are more often sung by the Latter-day Saints than the one beginning: "An angel from on high, the long, long silence broke." And the tower of the great granite temple which was forty years in building is surmounted by a gold-plated figure in the attitude of blowing a trumpet, and, when the stranger asks, "Whom does the statue represent?' to his question the answer is: "The Angel Moroni." Special References for Supplemental Study: 1. Book of Mormon II Nephi:29. 2. An Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon, chapter 1, Sjodahl. Questions and Problems 1. Quote or read the prophecy which to your mind most unmistakably refers to the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. 2, Why is the Book of Mormon a miracle? 3. Wherein is the Book of Mormon really a bible? 4. Why may III Nephi, chapters 11-30 inclusive, be fittingly called the "Fifth Gospel?" 5. What is there in the last chapter of the Book of Mormon that suggests the propriety of reading the chapter before reading the book? 6. What is there in the life and special mission of Moroni that justifies the belief in either special or continuous resurrections? 7. What are the evidences that the Angel Moroni was a student? 8. Wherein was Moroni a great teacher and character trainer? 9. What long, long silence was broken by the mission of Moroni? 10. What does the trumpet being blown by the Angel Moroni represent? 11. For the awakening of whom are the trumpet sounds especially directed? 12. Wherein were the works of the Angel Moroni miracles, that is, more than wonderful, more than marvelous? GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 49 LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in March) Teachers' Topic for March?Health in the Home Can one live a happy normal life when in ill health? 1. Preventive measures. A. Health opportunities for everybody. American standard includes yearly medical examination for all adults and school children. B. Practices that tend to destroy health. Fads, viz.: dieting, over-exercising, patronizing health advertisements, taking of medicines, especially patent, unless on advice of reputable physician. 2. Proper Home Sanitation. A. Observance of quarantine requirements. 3. Important Points in Personal Hygiene. A. Bathing. B. Care of teeth. C. Clean clothing. D. Sane hours for sleeping. E. Early detection of disease. 4. Proper Food. A. Temperance in eating. B. Insufficient nourishing food. (Milk essential for child.) C. Thoughtful selection and combination of foods. D. Regularity of meals. 5. Word of Wisdom. 
 Literature LESSON III (Third Week in March) JOHN MASEFIELD AND ALFRED EDWARD HOUSMAN When we think of authors who have written of the sea, James Fennimore Cooper and Sir Walter Scott of the past generations come quickly to mind. In this more modern time to think of a writer of the sea is to think at once of Joseph Conrad. A writer who is spoken of "as one of the two or three outstanding figures among contemporary English speaking poets is John Masefield, who was born in 1874, in the West of England. When a lad he served before the mast, did the drudgery and suffered the privations and the dangers of a sailor's life." Notwithstanding this suffering he had a passion for ships and the sea, as his poems known as Salt Water Ballads show. After he had knocked about a good deal as sailor and farm hand he took to writing as a profession and settled in Berkshire. In one respect he reminds us of Carl Sandburg, for he is the second example of a man spending his early life here, there and everywhere else, at this job and that, finally developing into a recognized poet. In 1896, he was living in America, in Yonkers, New York. There he first began to read poetry as he says, "with passion and system." He began with the great father of English poetry, Chaucer, and from him went to a study of Keats, Shelley, Milton and Shakespeare. Not only does Masefield love the sea, but he seems equally infatuated with English country districts which are usually conceded to be the most beautiful in the world. One of his poems entitled, "Sea Fever" begins: "I must go down to the sea again, to the lonely sea and sky; And all I ask is a tall ship and a star to steer her by, And the wheel's kick, and the wind's song, and the white sails shaking, And a grey mist on the sea's face, and a grey dawn breaking." And in his poem called "Prayer" his request is: "When the last sea is sailed, and the last field is reaped, Be good to me, O Lord, And let me pass in a night of sea, a night of storm and thunder." Tewksbury Road is a splendid example of his love for the English country district: GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 51 It is good to be out on the road, and going one knows not where, Going through meadow and village, one knows not whither nor why,? Through the grey, light drift of the dust, in the keen cool rush of the air, Under the flying white clouds, and the broad blue lift of the sky; And to halt at the chattering brook, in the tall green fern at the brink Where the harebell grows, and the gorse, and the foxgloves purple and white, Where the shy-eyed delicate deer troop down to the brook to drink When the stars are mellow and large at the coming on of the night. O, to feel the beat of the rain, and the homely smell of the earth, Is a tune for the blood to jig to, a joy past power of words; And the blessed green comely meadows are all a-ripple with mirth At the noise of the lambs at play and the dear wild cry of the birds. Of course it would be a surprising thing if Masefield's heart did not go out to the laboring man, the man who carries the heavy burdens of life. His sympathy for the common man makes us think of Wordsworth and Burns of the past and of A. E. Housman and W. W. Gibson of the present day. One cannot read the lines of Masefield without appreciating that he is a master of rhythm. There are people who are never satisfied with poetry unless the rhythm of the verse is pronounced and musical. To persons of this turn of mind John Masefield is an ever present joy. Another poet of England who is very much enjoyed by many readers is Alfred Edward Housman, born in 1859, whose reputation for many years rested on one slender volume called A Shropshire Lad, published in 1896. Most of these poems were written the year before their publication. Housman seems to belong to a group of poets who, like Pope, "wrote in numbers for the numbers came," for he says during the year that he wrote the poems of A Shropshire Lad "he was visited by a continuous poetic excitement." In 1922 he published a second slender volume of even shorter poems known as Last Poems. While most 
 of the poems of this volume were written in 1922, a few were written between 1895 and 1910. Mr. Housman is a graduate of Oxford University and was for ten years a higher division clerk in His Majesty's Patent office in London. Since 1892 he has been a professor of Latin, first in University College, London, and later in Cambridge University. He is a distinguished classical scholar. He likes to write of the exquisite beauty of nature in Shropshire, the devotion of friends, the pains of lovers and the homesickness that one may experience in London if his home chances to be in a country district. As an example of his love for nature we quote a poem that might be called "Poplars:" Far in a western brookland That bred me long ago, The poplars stand and tremble By pools I used to know. There, in the windless nighttime, The wanderer, marvelling why, Halts on the bridge to hearken How soft the poplars sigh. He hears: long since forgotten In fields where I was known, Here I lie down in London And turn to rest alone. There, by the starlit fences, The wanderer halts and hears My soul that lingers sighing About the glimmering weirs. Housman writes some very delicate lyrics. One-and-Twenty is an example of his love poems: When I was one-and-twenty I heard a wise man say, "Give crowns and pounds and guineas But not your heart away; Give pearls away and rubies But keep your fancy free." But I was one-and-twenty, No use to talk to me. When I was one-and-twenty I heard him say again, "The heart out of the bosom Was never given in vain; GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 53 'Tis paid with sighs a plenty And sold for endless rue." And I am two-and-twenty, And oh, 'tis true, 'tis true. Any person who has ever lived in England has heard the chimes of bells on Sunday morning as they ring out Old Hundred and tunes of Christmas cheer, as well as many other familiar songs. Tennyson talks of hearing "four bells from four hamlets round" on Christmas morning. In "Bredon Hill" Housman gives a picture of life in an English country village where the ringing of Church bells is a familiar experience: In summertime on Bredon The bells they sound so clear; Round both the shires they ring them In steeples far and near, A happy noise to hear. Here of a Sunday morning My love and I would lie, And see the coloured counties, And hear the larks so high About us in the sky. The bells would ring to call her In valleys miles away: "Come all to Church, good people; Good people, come and pray." But here my love would stay. And I would turn and answer Among the springtime thyme, "Oh, peal upon our wedding, And we will hear the chime, And come to church in time." But when the snows at Christmas On Bredon top were strown, My love rose up so early And stole out unbeknown And went to Church alone. They tolled the one bell only, Groom there was none to see, The mourners followed after, And so to church went she, And would not wait for me. 
 The bells they sound on Bredon, And still the steeples hum, "Come all to church, good people,"? Oh, noisy bells, be dumb; I hear you, I will come. He has paid his tribute to his friends in the poem, "With Rue my Heart is Laden," and it is one of the most delicate tributes to friendship found anywhere in modern literature: With rue my heart is laden For golden friends I had, For many a rose-lipt maiden And many a lightfoot lad. By brooks too broad for leaping The lightfoot boys are laid; The rose-lipt girls are sleeping In fields where roses fade. Questions and Problems 1. Name some sea tale written by Cooper, or Scott or Conrad, or by all if you are able. 2. Read to the class Tennyson's "Crossing the Bar." Note the contrast between Tennyson's call for the sea at death and Masefield's call for the sea at death in his poem entitled, "Prayer." 3. Name the flowers mentioned by Masefield in "Tewksbury Road." 4. The English lark finds place once again in our literature lesson. Which of the American poets of our course referred to the English lark? 5. If you have in the class any English people familiar with English chimes have them tell the class something about them, naming some of the tunes they have heard played by the bells. 6. Point out the words Housman has used to describe his friends in the poem "With Rue my Heart is Laden." 7. Read some lines from both Masefield and Housman that give pleasure because of the beauty of the rhythm of the verse. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 55 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) THE CHILD?STUDY COURSE LESSON 3 The Active Nature and Needs of Childhood. Based on chapter 3 of The Child: His Nature and His Needs. It will be recalled that in Lesson 1, we learned about the ways in which science is "bridging the gap" between what we know about child training and what we actually put into practice. The main point of emphasis there was, that teachers and parents alike must keep abreast the far-reaching changes now taking place in education. In lesson 2, we considered certain of the more important instincts and impulses which appear in childhood. We learned there that the proper guidance of these original tendencies is the chief responsibility of parents. In lesson 3, we are going to consider the active nature and needs of childhood and the way in which play satisfies those needs. A?THE HUMAN BEING IS BUILT OF ACTION (Pages 52-55) Did you ever hear parents say to their children: "Be still," "Can't you be quiet?" etc. To be "still" is one of the most difficult things for most normal children. Moreover, it is one of the most unnatural things to expect of a child, except during sleep or when intensely interested. Man is an active animal. He is built for action, mental and physical. His life is fulfilled in activity properly directed; it is thwarted by inactivity. The most striking characteristic of sick people generally, is their inactivity. This is true of the mentally diseased as well as of the physically ill. Contrary to popular opinion, which thinks of the insane as raving maniacs and their asylum as a "bedlam," the mentally diseased, taken as a class, are dangerously inactive. Their inactivity, as a matter of fact, is a symptom of their disease. Thus it is that a major form of treatment for insanity is occupational therapy, the underlying principle of which is activity. The meaning of this for child care and mental hygiene is clear. Unless already overactive or possessing a tendency in that direction, all children should be encouraged to physical and mental activity. The child who, without adequate cause, is mentally or physically inert, is in danger and in need of special guidance. 
 In the first part of chapter 3 of the text, the author describes the general laws of growth in young children, and summarizes the main items which are important for parents to remember. (The reference to left-handedness on page 52 is somewhat misleading. The author says: "*** dull children are more likely to be left-handed than bright children." This conclusion, we understand, is not fully established by science. The statement should, therefore, be interpreted with caution. The inference that all left-handed children are "dull" is certainly not justified by the facts.) Questions 1. Discuss (without using names or revealing identities) the cases of children known to you who are either (a) dangerously overactive, or (b) dangerously underactive. 2. What kinds of motor skill can parents expect of normal children at the ages of two, four, eight, twelve, etc.? 3. What is significant for parents in the fact that "all parts of the body, bones, muscles, limbs, trunk, and the various organs follow a law of growth of their own?" B.?THE FIVE FUNDAMENTALS OF PLAY (Pages 55-59) Childhood has one ultimate purpose: adulthood. All of the desires, the activities, and the behavior of the child converge on this objective. The long period of childhood is a period of preparation for adulthood, and play is the process by and through which adult behavior is learned. The child, to be sure, is not aware of this value which attaches to his play. To him, play is an end in itself; an activity engaged in for its own sake. The author has selected five play-needs of childhood: a place to play, time to play, playmates, equipment (toys, apparatus, etc.,) and intelligent suggestion. There is not much danger, at least in communities in which Relief Society work is organized, that children will have too little time to play and too little space to play in. There is need, however, in "Mormon" communities as elsewhere, to provide all children with wholesome playmates, and to give their play activities the intelligent guidance necessary. The natural tendency of children to resent supervision in their play, as in most other matters, is the cue for the application of a form of control which is indirect and which shall leave room for a maximum amount of self-government on the part of children themselves. Questions 1. What is the part played by toys in the development of the child? What, according to the author, are the rules which should GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 57 govern one in the purchase of toys for one's children? Examine the toy department or the toy-catalog of any typical store carrying such merchandise, in the light of the principles laid down in this chapter. How might parents become influential in raising the standards of toy-merchandizing in your community? 2. Consider your own children and the children in your community from the standpoint of the five fundamentals of play discussed in this chapter. For instance, do your own children have too little or too much time for play? Are the play activities of children in your community "intelligently directed," etc.? C.?AGE AND SEX DIFFERENCES IN PLAY (Pages 61-67) Parents are sometimes perplexed by the fact that John's play interests at six are quite different from those of Mary when she was the same age. A careful reading of the text will convince the reader that it is natural for children of the opposite sex to have play interests which are widely dissimilar, and that this dissimilarity increases with age. The reason for this is obvious: adulthood makes totally different demands upon the sexes. That is to say, the qualities needed in manhood are quite different from those needed in womanhood, and vice versa. Hence the play interests of the two sexes will tend to differ. The principle which should guide the parent here is: encourage your child to that type of play which is normal for his (or her) age and sex. In the case of the so-called "tom-boy" or "sissy boy" everything should be done, within reason, to counteract this tendency and to cultivate those play interests which are appropriate to the child's sex. (Care should be taken, of course, not to confuse the masculine tendency amongst all adolescent girls today with the more or less rare personality type loosely called "tom-boy.") Questions 1. What are the five differences noted by the author between boys' play and girls' play? 2. At what ages does it seem wise to cultivate (a) individualism, (b) rivalry, and (c) team work, in children's play? D.?CHARACTER AND PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT THROUGH PLAY (Pages 68-71) Equally important with physical development through play is the moral development which it makes possible. Such moral qualities as courage, honesty, sense of fair play, generosity, etc., are character traits of the utmost importance, all of which can be developed in some degree at least, by means of play. The child is imitative. He copies, more or less unconsciously, 
 the character and personality models he comes in contact with. Henry Churchill King puts the matter tersely in his book, Rational Living, when he states that: "Character is caught, not taught." Does it seem wise, therefore, to leave wholly undirected, the child's play life, his choice of playmates, and his use of leisure time? Questions 1. What are the educational values which the author maintains can be achieved through play? 2. What has been your observation regarding the relative influence of (a) playmates, (b) school teachers, (c) famous athletes, (d) movie stars, etc., upon the ideals and the character of your own and other children? Does it suggest the need for and the possibilities of an intelligent social control of commercialized leisure-time activity, on the one hand, and of character education, on the other? The main point in lesson 3: The normal, healthy child is active, physically and mentally. Much of his activity is play, and is an invaluable preparation for adulthood. Wise, parental guidance of the child's play life is a key to wholesome personality and strong character. A Beautiful Custom Copied from one of the Logan Newspapers Today at 2 p. m. Twenty-two bright and happy children of Salt Lake left for their homes after ten days vacation spent in Hyde Park, Benson and North Logan. On boarding the train each child was handed a box of delicacies packed by loving hands, to be enjoyed by them on the return trip. Very few people know of the beautiful custom that is being fostered and carried out by the Relief Societies; that of seeing that the orphans and children less fortunate have a summer vacation, who would not otherwise enjoy such a treat. The Cache stake Relief Society was responsible for the twenty-two children who came to Logan ten days ago, and to whom a great deal of credit is due, together with the big, generous hearted mothers of Hyde Park, Benson and North Logan, who royally entertained them in the country where everything is so beautiful at this season of the year. To these children it will be a happy remembrance; and to those who made it possible will come the joy and satisfaction of being able to serve others along with the pleasure of associating and becoming acquainted with little spirits less fortunate than themselves. "Go take to the lowly my blessing and peace, As I cared for the poor so do ye, And if you do good to the least among these Ye verily do it to me." Attend the school with a national reputation that holds five world's records. Positions Guaranteed Enter any time. Cups won by our students It pays to get the best We can assist you to earn expenses while in school. Write for full information. HENAGER'S BUSINESS COLLEGE P. O.