New Year's Greetings
With New Year's greetings from President Williams and the General Board we review the work of the past year in the Relief Society with intense interest and intense satisfaction. We congratulate the officers and members on the spirit of progress that has animated their work. All signs point to the fact that Relief Society workers are satisfied with nothing but the best as they appear very generally to be seeking out the best.
In Canada we find them connecting up with the colleges of the Dominion and making good use of the traveling libraries of that region. In California they are in touch with the latest information available for their social service work from the members of the faculty of the University of California, at Berkeley, while in Southern California they are no doubt making good use of the Los Angeles University and the University of Southern California. We have as one of stake presidents a woman who has been on the Extension Division of the University of Wyoming, so that we know that our Relief Society workers in Wyoming are reaching out to centers of learning. The same thing is doubtless true in Arizona, for everywhere the women are turning to educational centers for bulletins on subjects pertaining to the work of the organization.
In Utah, the University of Utah, the Brigham Young


University and the Agricultural College all serve the organization to an extent that is sometimes astonishing. One stake organization in a rural community has the reputation of utilizing practically everything the Agricultural College sends out. Very recently the literary leaders of the Salt Lake City stakes procured the services of Professor B. Roland Lewis, who gave them an address on Vachel Lindsay, the literature lesson of the month. The Brigham Young University is made use of in communities throughout the West. As many as six members of the faculty, in one week, have been known to appear before Relief Society audiences, and its Leadership week carries a course which is of special interest to Relief Society workers.
While all of these things tell of the forward march of the work we are increasingly grateful year by year for the restoration of the gospel, for as years pass on it becomes more and more our most precious possession. We are living in a transitional period when leaders, newspapers and magazines declare that the world needs religious leadership and when one leader, Dr. Cadman, calls for a truce on all arguments and asks that people live up to the things of which they have knowledge. To this suggestion a number of leading papers and magazines reply that few religious leaders of our time have any well defined notions on theological subjects. In the midst of such confusion it is gratifying to know that many thousands of Relief Society workers are entirely clear on the most vital matters of our religion. Such matters as the existence of God, the divinity of Christ, the divinity of the Bible and the Book of Mormon, and the restoration of the gospel and the priesthood. There are many people in the world who would give much if they had the certainty of knowledge, on such matters, possessed by hundreds of thousands in the religious group known as the Latter-day Saints, for many people find themselves in much the same position as the great Belgian playwright, Maeterlinck, when he exclaimed, "If we knew but one thing to be true would we not give our all." Consequently, as Latter-day Saints, as members of the Relief Society, we hail the New Year in a spirit of progress, on the one hand, and in a spirit of faith and devout trust in our Father in Heaven on the other. In the midst of a world of increasing material interest and apparently increasing religious difficulties, ours is certainly a joyous state.