[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | July | Issue: 3 | Title: HEPHZIBAH. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

HEPHZIBAH.
				II
	"Truth is stranger than fiction.”
	He grew quite enthusiastic on the subject,
and bye-and-bye said to his son, “it may be she
will marry her cousin Elisha and have the
homestead, and we shall see the village pros-
per again, for Elisha will have money.” This
was too much for the father, who, though
poor, compared to his eldest brother, was
proud, and replied bitterly, “No! he would
scorn a village girl, and my brother’s son
shall not look down upon my child.”  “Ah,
well, well, how foolish to differ about her mar-
riage on the day of her birth, strange indeed;
I cannot understand why we should thus drift
off into the future of one scarce yet initiated
into life; it may be all owing to her name.”
“It may be,” said Grandpa quietly “but it is
many a long day since I have been so aroused
as to dwell upon the future of any one, not
even my own sons, and to be thus exercised is
“passing strange.” And so the two—father
and son talked on; a channel of communica-
tion opened between them, that had been
closed for years. From that very day the old
Major seemed to have taken a new lease of 
life. The advent of the little stranger had
indeed created a change, and he watched her
from day to day, fancying he could see some
resemblance to that other Hephzibah for whom
she was Christened. As soon as she was old
enough to run about he insisted that she
should remain with him at the old homestead.
Much as the parents esteemed him, they could
not consent to such an arrangement, but
allowed little Hephzibah to visit at the old
home regularly with one of her elder sisters.
His love for the little one was so strong he
could not endure to be separated from her, but
kept her near him in the musty, old, deserted
house, until she was about as antique in her
manners as the aged veteran himself. When
other little girls were sewing “over and over”
or hemming by a thread, she would sit and
tell them long stories, and amuse them by the
hour together, and when they asked her where
she learned so many pretty tales, she would
answer, “In the old manor house,” talking to
herself. Poetry unwritten was in  her heart
and soul, and the realities of life were a perfect
blank to her ideal nature. Her practical
New England mother wondered what could
be done to bring the child down from the
airy heights, where she soared unconsciously,
to the level of the earth, and make her under-
stand the need of actual labor, in the work-a-
day world. Her hair, which was a mass of
bright brown waves, was never smooth, and
her white dimity aprons, made so neat and
nice, were soon crumpled and soiled; “generally


[Column 1]
untidy" was her mother's idea of the child's
appearance. At school, however, she progressed
rapidly, and was a favorite with her playmates;
but at night, she kept the household wide-a-
wake with her memorizing ballads and impro-
vising meaningless rhymes. Thus time passed
on; the semi-annual visits of the eldest son
from Boston continued as regular as ever, and
it came to his ears that little Hephzibah was
to be the heiress of the treasures and jewels of
his dead mother; it nettled him sorely, for he
had plead in vain to obtain them for his wife.
His father would never consent that any one
should ever possess them save those of his own
blood, and so he had thought his daughter
would some day inherit them, "Why not?"
he said to himself, "it is the proper thing and
in the direct line." He could not bear the
thought that the youngest son's daughter should
ever wear his mother's jewels. He was too
haughty to do more than barely recognize his
brother, and as for the wife and children, he
never deigned to notice them. One summer
when he came as usual he brought with him
his son Elisha, who, not knowing his aristocra-
tic father’s aversion to the villagers, romped
and played with his country cousins. The
grand-father was delighted, and inadvertently
said to his son one day when he happened to
see him with little Hephzibah, "That boy had
better marry his cousin Hephzibah and take 
possession here when he's of age." "My son
marry that country cousin of his? Never! I
would disown him. Let her marry one of her
own class." This quite enraged the old Major
who knew full well that her father was much
more honorable and generous than his city
brother; and not only so, but that the younger
son's wife was of a much better family than
the other daughter-in-law, and his hot temper
rose, and he replied, "She is too good for your
son, for now I remember who his mother was."
Angry words followed between the two, and
they were never afterwards reconciled to each
other. Little Elisha did not comprehend why
his father was not willing he should play with
Hephzibah, and persisted in being in her com-
pany, and begged his father to leave him in
the country, because he should be unhappy if
he must go back to Boston without his favorite
cousin. His girl cousin, however, was not
nearly so fond of him, in fact. she loved to
play by herself, and ransack old closets and
garrets, or wherever there were old things, for
which she seemed to have an unbounded  pas-
sion. She would sit for hours together among
the rubbish and dress her dolls and talk to
them as if they were conscious of all she said. 
She dwelt as much in a world of her own, as
did her aged grandfather, and they suited
each other admirably. Out of doors as well
as in, she enjoyed every nook and corner. The
orchard resounded with her sweet voice in
merry song and laughter, and there was not a 
tree she had not climbed. Her mother would
sometimes say, speaking of the fanciful child,
"Hephzibah has no more idea of eating and
drinking regularly, than the fairies and wood-
nymphs of which she is always talking and
dreaming." "Her ways are shiftless" she
would invariably add, "and that is what the
world will never overlook.” But the matter
rested there, and the child grew more unlike
other girls every day. She could not appre-
ciate her mother's fears and apprehensions
about the future, and while she was left to her
fine-spun fancies, and grandpa's curious stories,
with the old house and grounds to ramble
through at will, she cared not; an unsophisti-
cated child of nature, with a mind so rich in
imagery that all the earth wore radiant robes
of glory for her, and the star-bespangled
heavens, were mysteries she never cared to
have explained, but only to gaze on and wor-
ship from a distance. Little she dreamed that
in a few short years, life would reveal itself in

[Column 2]
a thousand glowing transports, and alas! in all
its cold and hard realities as well; but so it
proved.
	Ere long an event transpired that changed
all the current of Hephzibah's life. Her
father died suddenly, without a settlement of
any sort for his large family. The widowed
mother with three younger children, and not
one old enough to render much assistance in
the way of help or support, was more than
ever engrossed with the cares of life. Alas!
how heavy fall such burdens on women.
	The widow left so utterly dependent, with
ten children looking to her maintenance, took
up her burden heroically and never faltered.
Some said "The children's rich uncle will pro-
vide for them," But Mrs. H.—always an-
swered "No! we do not want his money; but if
I were a man with power to act, I would see
they had their own, of which he has robbed
them.” And this was true, for the eldest
brother taking advantage of the old Major's
idiosyncracies, had managed to obtain possession
of all his ready means, and used it in his own
business and then represented that he sup-
ported his father, and consequently all there
was worth claiming belonged to him alone.
One of the sons had died while quite young;
another gone, they knew not whither, for he
never wrote nor sent one word to comfort his
aged father; and the third lived a gay bachelor
life in the city of Boston. Neither of these
cared for the paternal estate, nor the heir-
looms of the family, therefore the eldest son
had full sway after his youngest brother's
death. He had always been annoyed about
his large family, and living so near the old
home, he feared his influence, but now he
breathed freely again, for he was gone where
he could no more trouble him about worldly
affairs. Inwardly he congratulated himself
that the "coast was clear," although he made
some pretensions to a desire to help the widow
and lighten her load of care.
	The widow really thought that in considera-
tion of the circumstances, the uncle would
take Hephzibah to Boston and educate her,
but no such offer was made, nor any hint of
such a thing given. The very next morning
after his brother's funeral, the rich merchant
bade them all good-bye ceremoniously, and
without a word of consolation, left for his own
luxurious home, knowing too that they were
entitled to a support at least, from the estate
he had charge of.
		      [to be continued.]

[Column 3]
meetings with only those she brought with
her. By the way, Indianola being so isolated,
the people greatly appreciate the too-seldom
visits of missionaries.
	Sister Felt's kind encouragement, seemed to
sink into the hearts of those who listened to
her. They appreciated her visit very much.
Little Vera Felt, who accompanied her, added
to the enjoyment of each meeting, with a
sweet recitation.
	We were received with the greatest kind-
ness and cordiality wherever we went. We
were greatly prospered and blessed on our
visit, and feel that the knowledge of God and
His ways, is increasing with our children.
His gifts and blessings are bestowed upon
them in rich abundance. There is a strong
attachment between the officers and members
of the Primary Associations.
	(We witnessed one touching, little episode on
our visit to Spring City. Their President,
Emma Robinson, had been bedfast for two or
three weeks. In the evening, the Primary
children, surrounded the bedroom window
and sang some of their beautiful songs. Sister
Robinson was moved to tears, and yet she
could not refrain from joining in with the
children in their praises to God, as she has
done so for fully nine years or more. After
the singing, many of the children crowded
around her bed, to press her hand and ask
God's blessings upon her.)
	Sister Felt expressed herself as being satis-
fied with the Primaries of Sanpete Stake, and
her visit to them. 
	Our manly little driver, Freddie Swalberg,
of Gunnison, did all that he could to speed us
on our journey. He took excellent care of our
team, and never missed a meeting. 
	Earnestly praying that our heavenly Father
will bless the Primaries in Zion, and all who
spend time, means, and labor for the advance-
ment of our precious children.
			We remain,
		HELENA MADSEN, Stake President,
		SARAH METCALF, Secretary,
	GUNNISON, June 11th, 1889.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


