Disarm By Minnie Johnson Hardy Spring has come to the desert, and yucca blossoms so white, Waxen and fair and fragrant, bloom in the morning light; A wood-dove coos in the thicket; but what is this Voice I hear? As the soft wind stirs the chaparral, it comes to me sweet and clear. It comes from the graves of dear ones, who wore the blue and the gray, Where flowers and flags are drooping, in loving memory today. It comes from the restless ocean, that cradle so blue and deep, Where many a brave young sailor has gone to his last, long sleep. From the graves of our splendid heroes, who, by some sad mischance, Have folded their hands forever, '"SSomewhere on the fields of France." The red poppies bloom in'Flanders, but what do the white crosses spell? Let your heart speak, dear mother! You know full well—too well. In honor today of our heroes, our flags now float at half-mast; We have closed a chapter in history, on a sad mistaken past. "O nations of Earth, awaken, be not slaves to war's wild alarm," 'Tis the voice of our cherished dear ones—''Peace—Disarm— Disarm." "Peace, peace on earth, O my brothers; it is our dear Father's will; Hear ye not his voice commanding," "My children, ye shall not kill?" "Cease making men into soldiers, cease making guns to destroy, Cease building monsters-of-the-deep to slay your neighbor's boy." A mockingbird sings in the chaparral, but still on the wind that Voice, "Let Brotherhood rule in the future, Live, Love; In peace rejoice." It echoes from city to village, from palace to cottage and farm; "Let not our sacrifice be in vain, Peace—Disarm—Disarm." Ina Coolbrith By Kate Thomas We are pleased to present to our readers a sketch of the life of Ina Coolbrith, a pioneer of the west and a niece of the Prophet Joseph. Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, Church Historian, tells us that his father kept up a correspondence with the author during his life and that the family has been aware of her literary achievements for many years.—Editor's Note. At the death of Ina Coolbrith, "the poet-laureate of California," a friend of hers told me that she came of Mormon parentage, but never spoke of it. However, the Los Angeles Times of March the seventh came out with the following: "Poetess' Past Uncovered. Ina Coolbrith Revealed as Mormon Leader's Niece, Pioneer of West, and Jack London's Mentor. "Robert H. Davis, in a copyrighted article in the New York Sun today, lifts the veil surrounding the early life of the late Ina Donna Coolbrith, poetess, and reveals her as a heroine of the Overland Trail, the niece of the founder of the Mormon religion and the "literary mother" of Jack London. "Ina Coolbrith died February 29, 1928, in Berkeley, California, at 86 years of age, regarded as one of the most noted poets of the West and a contemporary of Bret Harte, Mark Twain, Joaquin Miller, Prentice Mulford, Louis Agassiz and others who contributed to the literature of the nineteenth céntury. "On her arrival in San Francisco soon after the close of the Civil War, Davis says she became an associate of Harte in the editorship of the Overland Monthly. Her poems flamed through its pages, and her personality made her queen of Russian Hill, San Francisco's Mount Olympus. From 1874 to 1893 she was at the head of the public library at Oakland. "Through the instrumentality of one who was close to Ina Coolbrith, Davis offers the story of her genesis. She was born in Illinois, March 10, 1841, the daughter of Don Carlos Smith, a brothet of Joseph Smith the prophet, founder of Mormonism. And Agnes Coolbrith. "The family history became disrupted with the death. ™: her father and two uncles, who were slain by a mob June 27, 1844, in Carthage jail, Hancock county, Illinois. There are no available records as to what happened to her two sisters. "In the mid-Fifties Ina and her mother, who had remarried, left Illinois and crossed the plains over the Old Overland Trail with James Beckwith, Indian scout, arriving at Salt Lake when Ina still was in her teens. INA COOLBRITH 581 She vigorously opposed the polygamy of the Mormon colony, and a few years later went with her mother to Los Angeles, where she began her education as Ina Donna Coolbrith, taking the maiden. Name of her mother. She remained in Southern California until well into her twenties, turning a deaf ear to all offers of marriage. "In San Francisco she was elected as the only woman member of the Bohemian Club, and twenty different clubs and societies carried her in their 'memberships. In 1915 the poet laureateship of the state of California was conferred on her by the Governor. "While she was in the West, Davis says, Jack London came to her a ragged, barefoot newsboy and asked what she considered it best for him to read. She shaped his career. "She was talent's confessor," Davis continues, "the inspiration of youth, the kindly guide to all beginners, but none shared the secret of her girlhood." This sounded so near to home that I made inquiries about her and learned that she was much the type of the pioneer mother of Utah, kind, wholesome, old-fashioned, and motherly, with an intense love of the territory she had chosen as her abiding place, together with a strong desire to magnify the talents God had given her. Had she lived till March the tenth, she would have been eighty-seven years old; and her friends, west and east were planning a celebration. It made me think of "Aunt Em" and the good times held upon her honored birthday. Miss Coolbrith had been ill for several months; and while her death was not a surprise, it was a real sorrow to many people. She was the connecting link between the old California literary group and those of the modern day. "She belonged," stated one of the daily papers, "among the first picturesque group of pioneers, who came to the state in covered wagons. She came with her parents from Springfield, Illinois, in the days when the gold lure was drawing thousands across the plains." For years she was a librarian in Oakland, then was chosen librarian to the Mercantile and Bohemian Club libraries in San Francisco. At her home in San Francisco she became the center of a coterie of literary people, chief among them being Mark Twain, Bret Harte, Joaquin Miller, and Robert Louis Stevenson. The locality was spoken of by wits as the "poet's corner." During this period she published her first book, A Perfect Day and Other Poems. It is said that as a very young child she formed the idea of proclaiming the beauties of California in verse. She was bedecked with the flowers of her adopted native state when a passing Mexican called attention to her by calling out, "Look at the pretty little Americano!" so the story goes. The prettiness, in her simple mind, came from her decorations, and she determined then to make them known to everybody. She was locally famed as a poet, and her second book, Songs From the Golden Gate,


brought her much attention from people who were watching the growth of the then crude Pacific coast; presently she was referred to as the "Sappho of the West." This success induced her to go to New York, but she was not at home there and was very glad to return to California. She lived in various California towns and was in touch with phases of California from the Indian and Spanish population to the mining camps. Her best poems seem to have been written in Oakland. At the time of her death she was a resident of Berkeley. Her last poem, "The Vision of St. Francis," was printed in northern California newspapers last November. Laureateship was bestowed upon her by the governor through the legislature in 1919; "loved, laurel-crowned poetess of California." She has lived in the golden state almost eighty years. She was six when "dogged by Indians and harassed by hunger the little family reached California by way of Beckwith pass, named after the famous scout, Jim Beckwith, who piloted Miss Coolbrith's party." Eighty years within its borders! No wonder she wrote:
CALIFORNIA
Upon my fresh green sods No king has walked to curse and desolate; But in the valleys freedom sits and sings, And on the heights above; Upon her boughs the leaves of olive boughs, And in her arms a dove; And the great hills are pure, undesecrate, White with their snows untrod, And mighty with the presence of their God!
There was nothing profound in her verse. She was a rhythmical, light, lyric poet, as notice:
MEADOW LARKS
Sweet, sweet, sweet! O happy that I am! Listen to the meadow larks across the fields that sing! Sweet, sweet, sweet! O subtle breath of balm, O winds that blow, O buds that grow, O rapture of the spring!
Sweet, sweet, sweet! O happy world that is! Dear heart, I hear across the fields my mating pipe and call. Sweet, sweet, sweet! O world so full of bliss— For life is love, the world is love, and love is over all.
Nothing could be simpler. It is the rhythm that attracts. Note it also in:
WEST WINDS
I would you might sing me, summer wind, A song of a little chamber! Sing soft, sing low, how the roses grow, And the starry jasmines clamber, Through emerald rifts how the moonlight drifts, And the sunlight's mellow amber.
Sing of a hand in the fluttering leaves, Like a wee white bird in its nest; Of a white hand twined in the leaves to find A bloom for the fair young breast; Sing of my love, my little love, My snow-white dove in her nest, As she looks through the fragrant jasmine leaves Into the wasting nest.
Tenderly, tenderly, summer wind, With murmurous winds caresses, O wind of the south to her beautiful mouth Do you cling with your balmy kisses? Flutter and float o'er the white, white throat, And ruffle the golden tresses.
"The long year groweth from green to gold," Saith the song of the willow tree: "My tresses cover, my roots unfold," O summer wind sing it to me! Lorn and dreary, sad and dreary, As lovers that parted be— But sweet as the grace of a fair young face I never again may see.
And for those who have enjoyed the literary lessons there is a distinct pleasurable truth in the last stanza of:
SUMMER PAST
Now the summer is all over! We have wandered through the clover, We have plucked in wood and lea Bluebell and anemone. We were children of the sun, Very brown to look upon; We were stained, hands and lips, With the berries' juicy tips.
* 
o