INA COOLBRITH 583


Now the merry days are over! Woodland tenants seek the cover, And the swallow leaves again For his castle nests in Spain.
Shut the door and close the blind: We shall have the bitter wind, We shall have the dreary rain Striving, driving at the pane.
Send the ruddy firelight higher, Draw your easy-chair yet nigher, Through the winter bleak and chill We may have our summer still.
Here are poems we may read, Pleasant fancies to our need; Ah, eternal summer-time Dwells within the poet's rhyme!
All the birds' sweet melodies Linger in these songs of his, And the blossoms of all ages Wait their fragrance from his pages.
"In the light of today's criticisms and preferences," says an Oakland Tribune editorial, "it may be said that there are many followers of poetry who do not appreciate the values in that which Miss Coolbrith wrote. * * * She was an artist of high ideals, a writer who would not stoop for effects, and one who, with her loved memories and associations, clung fondly to the style and manners of that time in which she was so conspicuous a figure. Not only as a poetess was Miss Coolbrith loved. She had the gifts and graces to inspire others and to her came many who were later famous. * * * When the Bohemian Club of San Francisco departed from all precedent and made her its only woman member, it did so to honor the artist and friend of artists. Miss Coolbrith was the proud champion of pure, classic art, and a generous benefactor to youth seeking to express itself in any worthy way.
"There are older people in the Eastbay who remember her as the rarely beautiful young woman who presided at the Oakland library, where she directed young reading with a wisdom and friendliness which made a lasting impression. To the poetry of the West and the Nation she made a contribution which was recognized on two continents, and in the hearts of her friends she dwelt secure."
INA COOLBRITH 585
The San Francisco Examiner comments: "Wherever Ina Donna Coolbrith sat, in the company of men and women of her day, she was the center of attention. With the white scarf over her gray hair in these later years, she suggested somewhat the pictures of Queen Victoria; but Ina Coolbrith, even in illness, left the impression of vigor. Her humor and appreciation remained alert; her voice was deep and strong; her faculties did not desert. She was ever constructive and helpful. All through her years she was a source of inspiration to others."
Ina Coolbrith had met Whittier, Longfellow, Lowell and others of the earlier day poets. Of the later, Edwin Markham and George Sterling were her friends. On one of her birthdays not many years back, one of her best friends and warmest admirers, no less than "the Poet of the Sierras," Joaquin Miller, was asked to make a poem about her. His reply was, "I am not equal to doing her halfway justice. Her whole life has been a poem, a sweet pathetic poem." It makes one wonder just what the pathos might have been. But I was told by one who seemed to know that Ina Coolbrith, through her intense love for children, had given to certain children of others her whole heart and a devoted care and had reaped the usual reward of the unselfish by receiving in return small gratitude and little love. So wags the world.