Thanksgiving By Mrs. Merling D. Clyde
There's thankfulness within our hearts That those we love are near; The face of friends; the kindly word; The voice; the smiles that cheer.
We're thankful for enough to eat; A place to keep us warm; The knowledge that a Higher Power Will keep us safe from harm.
We're grateful for the sunshine bright, And for the winter snow; For rain, and trees; and for the flowers; For each dear day we know.
Mother's "Outside Interest" By Katharine C. McKay
Margaret Morrill read the editorial twice and then hardly grasped its meaning. It had something to do with women having an interest apart from the home. It did not appeal to her. She read little, anyway, and then only the women's page in Farm Journals or articles about poultry. Tonight being Sunday night and she a firm believer in keeping the Sabbath properly, she could not knit, darn, or sew, as was her custom. It would soon be nine o'clock and her bed time. With a sigh she laid the magazine down and looked about her. Tom and Mary, home from school over the week-end, were seated on the davenport, Tom listlessly turning cards, endeavoring to amuse himself with solitaire, Mary deep in a novel she had brought home with her. She knew they were both bored. Somehow they never seemed so very happy at home any more. During the first two years at school they had come home regularly every week-end. This year their visits had been very few, dances and parties offering excuse to stay in town. Tom Senior went in often, too, and went shopping with them or to theaters; but she, with her milk, chickens and turkeys to care for, could never accept their invitations. It made Mary quite out of patience. "Why on earth does Father keep a hired man when you do all the work? What's Jim good for anyway, if not to tend chickens and turkeys? And Annie is as good help as you could find anywhere." Tom would add, "Let up a little, Mom, and enjoy life. We only live once." And Ethel, the married daughter living in town, urged her, too, to take things easier. None of them seemed to understand that tending a garden, making butter and watching the growth of her fowls was her life—that she would be lost without her farm tasks. She glanced at her husband. He, clad in a silk dressing gown and slippers, Mary's idea of the proper way to dress for the evening, was sunk deep in a big leather chair, thoroughly enjoying his paper. She was sitting in an old rocker, an eye-sore, Mary called it, that was a remnant of less prosperous days. A faded cushion covered the board seat, a velvet tidy embroidered by her mother in the long ago, adorned the back. It was not very comfortable, but she was used to it; and besides, after she had done the supper dishes and tidied up the kitchen, it was practically bed time and foolish to think of getting comfortable. These new chairs, like the other new furnishings that Father and the children had insisted upon, while very elegant, were not restful to her. She was afraid of spoiling the upholstery with her rough