MOTHER'S "OUTSIDE" INTEREST 587
farm clothing, and could never rest her feet in comfort on the lustrous rugs for fear she would leave a trace of the hen-yard. The bright shining kitchen with its washable linoleum and rag rugs was more to her liking. No one was paying any attention to her; she might as well retire but she hated to just get up and leave without a word, so she ventured, "Them turkeys—"
"Those turkeys." Son and daughter spoke in concert, but neither looked up.
"Those turkeys," she corrected meekly, "that I bought from Ambrose ain't—"
"Aren't," they chorused again.
"Aren't what he made 'em out to be. I'm glad I didn't give him what he asked. They're worth what I did give, but I wont make much on them. Rate about third class, I imagine." She ceased and waited for a comment from one of them. There was no reply. After a moment Tom laid down his cards. "You're a good bargainer, Mom. If anyone could get the best of you it would be old Ambrose, and you can beat him. Are turkeys pretty high this year?"
"Will be by Christmas," his mother answered quietly. He was only trying to be polite. She knew that no one but her had the slightest interest in either old Ambrose or the turkeys. In fact Mary had threatened to wring the necks of the entire turkey flock, they gave her such a pain. An idle threat, as Mary could not be hired to go near a turkey unless it was picked, stuffed and roasted. Tom Senior, feeling a little ashamed that his son should show such manners, folded his paper and sat up attentively. "I didn't quite hear what you said, Margaret. Did Ambrose cheat you?"
"No, but I didn't make anything, either." Not much encouragement there. "How do you want that new hen-house fixed? I forgot all about it, but I'll tell Jim in the morning."
"I told him a week ago and it's all done now." Father, chagrined, resumed his paper. Tom, relieved of having to take part in an uninteresting conversation, spread the cards in front of him; so Margaret reached for her magazine. After all there might be something in that editorial—she'd think it over. With a quiet goodnight she took it to her room. Tom and the children would not retire for hours. After his perusal of the paper he always went through their financial problems with them, discussing their school and entertainment, even their clothes. She should have done that at least, but Father handled the funds


and Mary wound him around her finger, so she always went to him for everything. Alone in her room, she sat down on the edge of her bed to read the article a third time and see if it was really worth while. The writer, a woman editor, considered it almost a necessity that for her own sake a woman have something to occupy and entertain her besides her home. While her children were little, it was all well and proper to center all interest in the home; but when they entered high school or college, it was Mother's business to look to herself. She cited instances of women who had gone back to school teaching—had become buyers for local stores; one even had studied law. Mother Morrill thought it all over. It was evident that she needed something. She was not contented and pleased with herself, and her husband and children desired her companionship less all the time. She must face the matter squarely. She forced herself to recall an incident that had happened at Ethel's last winter; one which she put entirely out of her thoughts lest it hurt her too keenly. She had been upstairs getting Ethel's baby to sleep and had come down so quietly that her daughters, in conversation in the living room had not heard her. They were evidently discussing the coat she had just purchased. "I'd like, just for once, to drag Mother into a decent store and make her buy something with a little style." It was Mary speaking. "She acts actually afraid of Main Street."
"This coat isn't so bad," Ethel had said, "And as Mother says, it's very good material and will last a life time. Worse luck." Both girls laughed. "Doesn't that make you sick? This good material stuff gets on my nerves—I've heard it so long and so much. Really, Ethel, I believe Mother likes to look like a hick."
"Mary, for shame."
"I can't help it. Sometimes I'm positively ashamed of her; aren't you?—her hands and her hair—and then such awful clothes! She could dress better. I actually feel sorry for Dad when they go anyplace in town together, there's such a contrast."
"You mustn't even think of such all again, Mary. After all she's our mother and—"
Margaret Morrill had not waited for more. Quietly she had gone back upstairs. She told herself, with the good common sense that she possessed, that Father would never be ashamed of her—they had struggled and suffered too much together—and that Mary, when age had made her a little wiser, would get over all this foolishness. So she resolved from that moment to forget it entirely. Now, thinking over this evening's experience and many similar ones, and again using her common sense, she decided that
MOTHER'S "OUTSIDE" INTEREST 589
there must be something wrong with her. She looked at her hands—pretty hands they might have been, but the nails were broken and bruised, and the hands themselves were coarse and rough, covered with scars and deeply lined. She went to her mirror. Her face was not so bad—the complexion so beautiful in her youth had not been hurt by good soap and water, healthful food and sunshine. Her cheeks still possessed the ruddy glow so earnestly desired nowadays, but her hair—it was awful. However that could wait. The thing of importance now was that Mother had decided to have an "outside interest," and henceforth all her efforts must be turned to deciding what that should be. For the next week she read the paper and all the magazines industriously, especially the part concerning women and their work. The first time she asked for a part of the paper Tom Morrill looked up in surprise; but she was so casual, so matter of fact, that he forbore comment. At the end of a week her decision was made; so she spent her time planning how to carry it out. Much to her surprise, the children came home the following week end. Tom Senior brought them and seemed quite proud of his achievement. "I made Tom give up a stag-party and—what was your sacrifice, Mary?"
"Nothing but a luncheon," Mary answered carelessly. "But why, Tom?" Mother asked.
"I'll have to be with the sheep at least a month, so it will be our last time together for a while. Where will you go, Mother, Ethel's or Carrie's?" Both children waited expectantly. Mrs. Morrill hesitated, to enjoy the children's discomfiture. "Carrie's I guess. She's been wanting me for some time." There was positive relief manifested in their faces. "You'll like it at Aunt Carrie's, Mom; she has so many chickens and things," Tom said; and Mary added, "And Ethel's baby is so cross, you'd not enjoy a minute there." Well, that was settled, quickly and easily. Then the letter was sent to Carrie, letting her in on the secret and outlining some of her plan. Carrie was just finishing breakfast and getting the children off to school, hers were still in the "grades," when the letter came. She cried a little as she read it. "I wonder if my children will ever be ashamed of me," she thought, as she watched them, still almost babies, trudging off. "But Maggie will make it all right; she always does—I'll bank on her"; and with a sigh almost envious, she started to gather her dirty dishes. "Your station is Greenfield, Madam," the conductor said, as


two stations out of town Mrs. Morrill started down the aisle, suitcase in hand. "I forgot something," she replied and brushed by him. Back in the city she went at once to a hotel, a good, clean, reliable one, though not in the most fashionable part of town, and took a room and bath for two weeks. She examined her check book. It showed a goodly sum. All her chicken, egg and turkey money had gone into it, and nothing had ever been taken out. When she had wanted to help, Tom had always said, "No, Mother, that's yours and you might need it some time. We'll have to be lots worse off than this before I'll take a penny of it." So it had grown—she was almost amazed to see how much. Her first plan had been to venture into one of those shops that Mary had wished to "drag" her in and buy clothes suitable to a woman of business; but on second thought she decided she could probably do better if she went looking as she did. Accordingly she set out, the address she sought on a newspaper clipping in her hand. It was on a side street in a most undesirable part of the business section of town. It would have to be moved—but not immediately. Its location would do fine for the present, as there would be no chance of meeting the children. Before a dirty window bearing the sign "Wholesale Poultry" she stopped. There was no sign of life within, but the door gave to her push and she found herself in a large room, barren and untidy. A counter, covered with worn oil-cloth and containing a roll of paper and string, projected to the center near the front. Behind it, along the walls and ceiling, empty hooks were visible; at the rear a space, probably a refrigerating plant, was boxed off. The prospect was not very encouraging. At her entrance a man seated behind the counter, using it as a prop for his feet, had straightened up but did not deign to rise. He watched her with interest as she surveyed the room. At length he spoke, "Can I do anything for you, Madam?"
"I should like a few moments of your time to talk about your business." He looked at her clothes, substantial enough—but—and the worn leather bag she carried, and decided she was a solicitor or canvasser, perhaps a book agent. She drew a chair to the opposite side of the counter and seated herself. Ordinarily he didn't care for this kind of companionship, but he had nothing else to do this morning and she might prove interesting. "Your business is not very good, I imagine," she said, looking around. "Good? It's rotten. I just barely make enough to keep alive and am lucky to do that."
"How much is it worth, do you think?"
MOTHER'S "OUTSIDE" INTEREST 591
The question surprised him. He hesitated before replying but decided she could mean nothing serious. "It ain't worth nothing. I'd sell the whole works for half a dollar."
"I want to buy it." He was stunned for a moment, but instantly his business sense came to the fore. "Business ain't always so bad as this," he said, "I'll make you a good price," and he named what to Mrs. Morrill seemed an immense sum.
"I'll give you just half," she said, "cash."
"Why Ma'am, the property's worth more than that. I can't give it to you."
"I know what the property's worth and the business, you admit, is no good. I'm offering you a fair price and cash. Will you take it?" It was too good an opportunity to lose, and the owner of the Wholesale Poultry Business knew it. "Yes," he said. And so Mrs. Morrill acquired her "outside interest." The days following were exceedingly busy ones. Herself to care for first, Mrs. Morrill visited some of the best shops and put herself in the hands of the capable clerks. They turned out a most satisfactory product. Then one day she ventured into a beauty parlor—for a shampoo and manicure—she told the enquiring attendant and was whisked away to a clean little white curtained alcove. The girl ran her fingers through her long luxurious hair caressingly. "Golly," she said, "You don't see hair like this nowadays. The way you do it no one would dream it was so pretty." It was what Mrs. Morrill was hoping for. "How can I do it?" she asked. "Not so tight. You could have a beautiful natural wave if you'd train it. I'll show you when I get it dry." And so she fluffed and fussed; and Mrs. Morrill went away with combs, pins and nets, well tapered fingernails, light fluffy hair, and a sense of pride and well-being never hers before. She discovered that she would have to make regular visits to markets and farmers, and that necessitated a car. So she purchased a neat little roadster and took lessons in running it. Her shop underwent a complete transformation. She cleaned and scoured, added new furniture, more hooks, and installed a complete modern refrigerating plant to take the place of the unsatisfactory one on hand. She found she would either need a stenographer or learn to typewrite herself. The business could not warrant a stenographer yet, so she took a business course three nights a week and spent the other nights in practice. She had to talk long and hard to the retail merchants before she met with any success; but at length they came to realize that "she knew her stuff" and that they could do better through her than


from the farmers. She visited all the farmers in person within a radius of sixty miles and corresponded with those farther away. The business boomed. The little shop on Second Street radiated prosperity. Help had to be hired, trucks to be purchased. Mother Morrill was busy every minute of her day, but she went through it all as calmly and serenely as though she were used to running a railroad. Mary tore open her note. Half to herself she exclaimed, "Well, what do you think of this?" Ethel, standing behind her, responded, "Simply that Mother's done what Dad and you kids constantly urged—taken an apartment for the winter."
"Did you get one, too?"
"Yes, for myself and family. I bet Mother's cooked up a good old-fashioned meal. I've been looking forward to it all day."
"But, Ethel, we haven't even asked her to come to town this winter. She always made so much fuss over her everlasting turkeys. You don't suppose—she couldn't have brought them with her—could she?"
"Silly, turkeys would do fine in an apartment. I think Mother has just decided to give in and spend the winter here, and I'm mighty glad. The rest will do her a world of good."
"It will kill her. She has to be slaving or she isn't happy. Something wonderful must have happened to jar her loose from those turkeys." Tom was equally surprised. "My gosh," he expostulated on reading his mother's note, "An invitation to dinner." He glanced at the note again. "Did you notice, girls, it doesn't say supper? There's something queer." A few minutes later the phone rang. It was Tom Senior. "Do you know anything about your mother, Ethel? I was to meet her here when she came from Carrie's and she wasn't on the train."
"She's in town, Dad, at an apartment. We're all going up to dinner—invited for six o'clock."
"What? I'll be right up." Promptly at six o'clock the Morrill family rang the bell of apartment 5. Susan West answered. "Where's Mother?" they asked. "She ain't come yet." Susan threw the door wide, "Come in and make yourself to home. I'm looking for her any time." They looked at each other in amazement. "You working here all the time, Susan?" Mary asked. "Yes, your ma brought me in. I like it fine, too." More amazement. Susan departed to the kitchen. The family surveyed the room.
MOTHER'S "OUTSIDE" INTEREST 593
"It's perfectly charming," Ethel said at last; "done in exquisite taste."
"I'm glad Mother brought my chair in," Tom Senior was already in it. "You can't find a more comfortable piece of furniture than this."
"Thank heaven she left that old one of hers at the farm. I detest it."
"Mom seemed to like it though. Where on earth is she?" Tom voiced the question uppermost in all minds. Mary, after opening all doors and peering restlessly here and there, had sauntered over to the window. "For the love of Mike," she exclaimed. Tom was at her side, "Is that Mother?"
"Good night!" It was too much for Tom. The family all gathered round. A smart little roadster had driven up to the curb, and from it had emerged—Mother. "That can't be your mother, children?"
"Looks like her to me; but, oh boy, what a change!" Mother was coming up the stairs. She let herself in and ran from one to another, embracing her family. They met her in a daze, standing awkwardly—speechless. "Well, my dears, be seated and tell me how you like the apartment." They sat down, their eyes watching her stupidly. "Mother," they all began at once. "Aren't you starved?" she said, "I am. I'll see if dinner is ready." She pulled off her gloves, of soft fine kid, and revealed white well-cared-for hands; her coat, a creation, she removed unaided—both father and son were too confused to offer assistance. Then she removed her smart little toque. An involuntary "Oh!" escaped from the group when they saw her beautiful hair. She laughed, a little tremulously—"I'll see Susan"—and disappeared. "Goodnight—Irene!" It was Tom again who broke the silence. "What is it? What has happened? Isn't she a peach?" Mother came back then and ushered them to the table. Father at length found his voice, "I can't eat a thing, Margaret, till you explain this to us. What have you done?"
"I've gone into business," Mother answered with a calm she was far from feeling, "the wholesale poultry business—and I'm doing well. I'll tell you all about it later. Now let's eat, and afterward I'm treating the crowd to a musical comedy." None of them knew what they ate, they were too busy watching Mother. For the first time she held the reins of the conversation in her hands; she discussed the range with Tom Senior,


school with Mary and Tom, and the babies with Ethel, receiving only half-hearted replies from them all. It was very late that night before any of them retired. Mother had to go over and over her story, while the family made an effort to grasp it. "I've a position waiting for you, Tom, for Saturday and after school," she said; "I believe I can make you into a fairly good buyer, you're a lot like me. The salary won't be much at first, but will help out a little, and you won't be such an expense to your father."
"Bully for you, Mom; what time shall I appear in the morning?"
"And you, Mary, will be expected to take over the entire management of this apartment. I am away so much I can't attend to it properly."
"I'll love it," Mary answered, "It's so pretty and cozy." Then she wandered to her mother's room and started examining clothes. "Mother," she called, "These gowns are marvelous. You must go with me tomorrow to get a party dress. Dad has given me the money. Will you?" Mother smiled happily, "Of course, dear." At last the children were persuaded to retire. As they were leaving, Tom said, "My frat is entertaining the mothers at tea tomorrow, Mom, will you go?" Mother hesitated, "I'm pretty busy—"
"You'll have to come. I've got to show you to the fellows—they'll die of envy." Mother stretched out her silken-clad feet from which she had removed her slippers, and sighed—she was so happy. Tom Senior went over to her, he lifted her in his arms and going back to his own chair held her on his lap. It was the first time since Mary was a baby. Her eyes filled with tears. "Mother," he kept saying, and repeated over and over, "Mother." At last he said, "You've given them both something to do, Mother, are you leaving me out?"
"Oh Tom," she said, as she snuggled in his arms, "I could never leave you out; you're too much a part of me. You'll have to stand behind me in this business. It's going to be very hard sometimes."
"That I will, little woman," Tom answered; and, his masculine pride coming to the front, added, "You need never worry, I'll take care of you." And Mother, her face hid in his coat, smiled.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine