Social Service (Fourth Week in January)
THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE
Lesson 10. Prevalence and Treatment of Sense Defects.
(Based on Chapter XI, The Child: His Nature and His Needs.)
In the last lesson we considered the general principles of mental hygiene as they apply to the child. In the present lesson we are going to see how mental health and progress in school are dependent upon normal vision, proper hearing, sound teeth, right posture, correct diet, etc. This excellent chapter, in many ways the best one in the text, is written by Dr. C. E. A. Winslow, Professor of Public Health, at Yale University, one of the most eminent authorities in the United States. The author's main point is summed up in the apt phrase: "By taking thought a man cannot add a cubit to his stature, but he can add pounds to his child's weight." A. Defective Vision and Hearing. Of the physical defects which rendered more than forty percent of the drafted men unfit for military service during the late war, visual and auditory handicaps were among the most numerous. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 629 It is significant, too, that these two defects correspond to the two main senses by which the human being deals with, and makes successful or unsuccessful adjustment to the world about him. One of the marvels of our civilization is the extent to which permanent defects of vision can be overcome by the proper use of lenses, in the form of spectacles. It is probably safe to estimate that among literate people, about five percent of all children, and twenty-five percent of adults wear glasses. The school boy is no longer regarded as a "sissy," merely because he wears glasses. Only a false pride?usually on the part of the mother?would now deter a child from wearing properly fitted glasses, should he need them. It is definitely known that much of the child's school retardation, especially failure to read, can be traced to uncorrected eye difficulties. The same can be said of hearing. Many a child loses interest in school, gets discouraged, runs away, and finally becomes delinquent because in the beginning he could not hear the teacher and the other children clearly. While defective hearing is less responsive to correction than is defective vision, yet it is amazing what can be done by intelligent parents and teachers, if the child's defect is discovered in time. It might be of interest to our readers to know that one of our Latter-day Saint scholars, Dr. Harvey Fletcher, now with the Western Electric Company, New York City, has recently gained national eminence through his invention of the audiometer, a device by which the hearing of school children can be accurately determined in a very simple, reliable way. The device was commented on favorably in the columns of the Literary Digest several months ago. It has been installed in the public schools of Salt Lake City. Questions 1. To what extent are scarlet fever, and the other children's diseases the cause of deafness and ear trouble in children? What is significant about this fact, for the prevention of deafness? 2. Why, until recently, was a school boy wearing glasses dubbed a "sissy?" 3. Can you cite local examples of school failure and character mal-development due to eye or ear defects? 4. How many children in your community are too blind, or too deaf to attend public school? What is the theory and practice of the State School at Ogden, in the education and training of deaf and blind children? 5. Does your school systematically examine children for eye and ear troubles? If not, why not? 
 B. Other Physical Handicaps. In an age of soft foods and excessive sweets, it is imperative that the child's teeth be kept clean and free from decay. Regular brushing and periodical dental examinations are the best preventive measures known. While the school can do much to help children in the regular use of the tooth brush by means of tooth brush drills, lessons in hygiene, etc., the primary responsibility must rest upon the parents. They can do much by reward and encouragement, by furnishing the child with an appropriate tooth brush and dentifrice, to be kept in a proper place and used with religious regularity. Decayed teeth are like diseased tonsils and adenoids; they are the source of an infection which pours a toxic poison into the blood stream. The ultimate effect of this poisonous substance is to lower the threshold of physical and mental resistance, thus increasing fatigue and making learning difficult. It is axiomatic that healthy minds exist in healthy bodies. Character, morality, mental health, and will power are dependent upon physical health. One of the most interesting post-war health movements has as its objective a reduction in morbidity and morality due to heart disease. In many of our cities, notably Chicago, Cardiac Societies, as they are called, have undertaken to educate public sentiment in regard to the nature, causation, and treatment of cardiac disorders. In many school centers, they have gone so far as to finance special classes for children with weak hearts and to work out a diet, a curriculum, and a scheme of recreation adapted to the needs of children who cannot, at least during their tender years, engage in strenuous, competitive activities of the average school and play ground. These experiments have already demonstrated remarkable possibilities in dealing with, and in many cases overcoming a physical handicap which was once regarded as instrumountable. The movement referred to above is, however, only a small part of the great public health movement which has yielded for the public schools: (a) periodic medical and dental examinations, (b) school nurses, (c) health drills, (d) instruction in personal hygiene, etc. Questions 1. What, if any, is the attention paid to the needs of children with heart disorders in your school or community? 2. What should be the place of the school in the nutrition of the school child? Do you think, for example, school lunches are a good thing? Why or why not? GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 631 3. What is the status of health work in the schools of your community? Do you have a school physician, a school dentist, a school nurse? 4, How far should the public schools go in diagnosing or even treating sense defects and other physical handicaps in school children?