was very grievous in the eyes of the Lord. And there are circumstances connected with the curse of Canaan, the son of Ham, that point to the justification of a suspicion that the self-selling was not all on the side of the daughters. We know that Ham's wife was the mother of that branch of Noah's family which "preserved the curse in the land," and that they were denied the Priesthood and in the light of these facts we face the question: Did not Ham sell himself by marriage? B. MEMORABLE EVENTS 1. The Calling of Noah as a Dispensator: '""And the Lord ordained Noah after his order, and commanded him that he should go forth and declare his gospel unto the children of men, even as it was given unto Enoch." (See Pearl of Great Price, Moses 8:19). 2. Noah's Message: (a) His Last Call to Repentance: "And it came to pass that Noah called upon the children of men that they should repent; but they hearkened not unto his words." (Moses 8:20). (b) The Infidel's Answer: "And also, after that they had heard him they came up before him, saying: Behold, we are the sons of God; have we not taken unto ourselves the daughters of men? And are we not eating and drinking, and marrying and giving in marriage?" (Moses 3:21), (c) The Final Warning Call: "Believe and repent of your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, even as our fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, that ye may have all things manifest; and if ye do not this, the floods will come in upon you." (Moses'8:24). 3. The Deluge: (a) The Necessity for It. God had promised the flood as a penalty for persistence in sin; failure of his promise would mean that he was not a God of truth. The earth which obeys law felt the weight of man's iniquity and cried for deliverance: ''And it came to pass that Enoch looked upon the earth; and he heard a voice from the bowels thereof, saying; Wo, wo is me, the mother of men; I am pained, I am weary, because of the wickedness of my children. When shall I rest, and be cleansed from the filthiness which is gone forth out of me? When will my Creator sanctify me, that I may rest, and righeousness for a season abide upon my face? "And when Enoch heard the earth mourn, he wept, 1 i 
 and cried unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, wilt thou not have compassion upon the earth? Wilt thou not bless the children of Noah?" (Moses 7:48, 49). (b) The Preparation for the Deluge?The Lord was the architect of the ark, and it was built by Noah and his sons under divine supervision, in the face of the derision and persecution of the self-sufficient, sinful populace. (Genesis 6:14). (c) The Crew?Noah, six hundred years of age; Japhet, one hundred and fifty years of age; Shem, one hundred and eight years of age; Ham, one hundred years of age; and the three women helpmates. (See Genesis 7). (d) The Cargo of the Ark?It was just what the Lord directed Noah to take, no more no less. (Gen. 7). (e) In the Ark?Noah and his family were housed in the ark for nearly a year (ten months, fourteen days). (See Genesis 7:11; 8:9). Of this time there were forty days of down-pour before the ark foated. (See Genesis 7:17). Something over five months was the ark afloat. (See Genesis 7:24; 8:4). (?) The Pilot?God was the pilot of this ship of Salvation. The First Altar on the Baptized Earth?On coming out of the ark Noah's first thoughts were of God; his first emotion was gratitude; his first work was the building of an altar and offering sacrifice. (See Genesis 8:20). He first obeyed the first great law of salvation as given by Christ.: The Bow of Promise (See Genesis 9:13-17)?The rainbow had no doubt been seen before the flood, but it had not been selected as a token of God's promise or covenant with "all living things," that never again would there be another deluge, and in that promise there is seen the certainty that sin will never get such a universal grip on the human family; for if conditions that made the flood necessary should re-occur another deluge would follow. Identical causes produce identical effects. The Curse of Canaan?In his eargness to advertise his father's faults, Ham gave evidence of not being a high grade man, rather low in fact, when his conduct is compared with that of Japheth and Shem. But this sacrilege of Ham could not have justified the patriarch in pronouncing a curse upon one of the offender's children. If, however, the blood of Cain flowed in the veins of Canaan it was a bar to his having the privileges of the Priesthood. He could not become an officer in the kingdom of God nor would he be entitled to marriage with a woman entitled to the blessing of the Priesthood. Noah's pronouncement against Canaan must have had behind it something more than retribution; it must have had some great good as its objective. Whether that objective was the preventing of undesirable blood mixing, or not, it has operated and is still operating as such a preventative. C. DOCTRINES AND ORDINANCES. The same doctrines taught during the Adamic Dispensation were promulgated during the Noachian with emphasis on repentance, and, no doubt, the ordinances of baptism and ordination and marriage were performed. The work done in this dispensation before the flood converted none of the wicked, but it condemned all of them. They would not listen to truth; they would not heed warnings. The Lord kept the gospel on the earth, and the wicked were swept away. D. The Biography of Noah. 1. Noah was a child of promise, the great-grandson of Enoch. See Moses 8:2; Genesis 5:21-32. 2. He was the second father of the race. 3. Noah is Gabriel. See D. And C. Commentary, p. 623. 4. He appeared to Daniel. See Daniel 8:16-27; 9 21 -27. 5. He came to Zacharias. See Luke 1:19. 6. He notified the Virgin Mary of her election. Luke 1:26. 7. He spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith. D. & C. 128:21. E. Questions and Problems. 1. About what period of time was covered by the Noachian Dispensation, 2. In the light of the "Rainbow Covenant," discuss this statement: The social conditions just preceding the flood were worse than they ever were before or ever will be again. 3. Compare Genesis 6:6 with Moses 8:25 and discuss the relative consistency of the two statements. 4. Wherein was the deluge a necessity, (a) Human? (b) Divine? 5. Tell of the time during which the family was in the ark. (a) Before it arose from its moorings. (b) While it floated. (c) While it was on Mt. Ararat. 6. What was the first thing done by Noah after coming out of the ark? 
 7. In what way was the curse of Canaan a blessing to the human race? 8. Mention the earth-missions to which Noah has been called since his death. 9, Which of the missions of Noah do you consider the greatest? 10. Mention five memorable events of the Noachian Dispensation.