[Vol12 | March 1925 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Our President Laura J. Adamson]

Our President Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, Blaine Stake, Idaho
Delivered at a banquet given in honor of the General Board of the Relief Society, April 3rd, 1924, at the Hotel Utah, by the stake and mission presidents.
She is the woman whom the Lord, through his priesthood on earth, has chosen to occupy the highest position possible for the Church of Jesus Christ to bestow upon one of our sex. Truly a leader selected before the world was, to take her place among the noble ones.


And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: "These I will make my rulers; for he saw that they were good.'' May we not believe that these words applied to our women as well as to our men?
She is a woman whose life has been devoted to service of the highest order, to the relieving of sickness, sorrow and all forms of distress; a woman recognized nationally, even internationally, for her executive ability, her integrity, and her willingness to give service in the cause of humanity.
Our President, a true home-maker and a mother! She has given loving, sympathetic understanding companionship to her | husband. Has helped him in the battle of life to achieve and acquire. She has gone down to the portals of death that other spirits may have the privilege of receiving bodies. She has given to these spirits training of the highest order.
In a broader sense she is our mother; sacrificing and working continually that through the medium of this great organization our lives may be made richer; that our standards of life may be higher; that we may be better home-makers and mothers, thereby giving to the children of this generation better physical, mental, moral and spiritual opportunities.
Our President, sweet-spirited, gracious, serene, radiating sympathy, love and strength to all, our leader at a time when all the world is in commotion, when we need clear vision, strong faith, and a knowledge of the gospel that cannot be shaken.
Dear Sister Williams, as your stake and mission presidents and representatives of the women of this Church, we tender to you our love, our loyalty and support, and willingness to work under your leadership. May our Father continue to bless you with health and vision that under your guiding hand the women of this organization may accomplish the things required of them.
When Dreams Come True
The Trained Nurse and Hospital Review, a monthly magazine devoted to trained nursing in private practice, in hospitals, institutions and public health service, published in New York City, prints, under the above heading, in its September, 1924, issue, the following paragraph: "The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing, Salt Lake City, Utah, graduated eight students on April 17. The school's one-year course of training has been the means of fitting many young women to do relief work in circumstances where the greater skill of the trained nurse is not required."