Abraham Lincoln (1809 - 1865) "Let us have faith that right makes might; and in that faith let us to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it." "Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people?" ".. That from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause..." "The world has never had a good definition of the word liberty, and the American people, just now, are much in want of one." ",.. To do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among... All nations." "Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away." "Among free men there can be no successful appeal from the ballot to the bullet..." "If we do not make common cause to save the good old ship of the Union on this voyage, nobody will have a chance to pilot her on another voyage." "The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether." "At what point then is the approach of danger to be expected? I answer if it ever reach us it must spring up amongst us; it cannot come from abroad. If destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and finisher. As a nation of free men, we must live through all time or die by suicide." "Character is like a tree and reputation like its shadow. The shadow is what we think of it; the tree is the real thing." "What is conservatism? Is it not adherence to the old and tried, against the new and untried?" The Cover: 'Twelve-Mile Canyon, Near Gunnison, Utah. Photograph by Grace T. Kirton. Copyright by Eugene A. Perry STATUE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN By Augustus Saint-Gaudens Lincoln Park, Chicago, Illinois "Seek Ye First the Kingdom of God" Edith S. Elliott Member, Relief Society General Board (Address Delivered at the Annual Relief Society General Conference, October 2, 1947) SINCE the beginning of time man has had the opportunity to be guided in his conduct in thought and action by our Heavenly Father. "God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female created he them." The mere fact that man is a product of God's creation assures us that he had an interest in the achievement or he would not have gone to all the necessary work for the ultimate accomplishment. With the creation of man our Heavenly Father's interest in his well-being remained ever-constant, as witnessed in the holy scriptures and the revelations given for us in our day. Because of his knowledge of universal and eternal laws, he has been anxious for his earthly children to reap the rewards gained by knowledge of and obedience to them. These laws function with undisturbed accuracy. Like temporal laws when, if not kept, punishment and regret follow. Our Heavenly Father wants us to be happy and enjoy life in its fullness. He has told us that "man is that he might have joy." In order to experience the joy and happiness in store for us, the Savior explained the pattern. For us to follow in chapters 5, 6, and 7 of the gospel of St. Matthew. There is a repetition in Luke, part of which I would like to quote from chapter 12, verses 22 to 32: And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat; neither for the body, what ye shall put on. The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment. Consider the ravens: for they neither sow nor reap; which neither have storehouse nor barn; and God feedeth them: how much more are ye better than the fowls? And which of you with taking thought can add to his stature one cubit? If ye then be not able to do that thing which is least, why take ye thought for the rest? A Consider the lilies how they grow: they toil not, they spin not; and yet I say unto you, that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. If then God so clothe the grass, which is today in the field, and tomorrow is cast into the oven; how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith? And seek not ye what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind..; For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: and your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things. But rather seek ye the kingdom of God; and all these things shall be added unto you.; Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Page 75 WHEN the gospel was restored in its fullness through the Prophet Joseph Smith, it returned unchanged. All of the laws, commandments, and penalties remain the same. We are plainly told in a revelation recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants that "there is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of the world, upon which all blessings are predicated; and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." This quotation is a reminder of what we must do to gain salvation. The early saints who accepted the message of the latter-day Prophet and sought first the kingdom of God saw a literal fulfillment of the promise, "All these things shall be added unto you." When they faced the wilderness, no one could say, "O ye of little faith," because it was their faith in and love of God that sustained them through the desert and, later, the mountains, when they sought peace in a forbidding wasteland. Here they sought first the kingdom of God and during these past ten decades all these things have been added unto them. Let us think back over some of "these things" of the past one hundred years. This year 1947 is the Centennial year for the settlement of Utah. All members of the Church, as well as Utah's citizenry, have taken pride in recalling the unbelievable attainments made in the State, the Nation, and the world during this period. Since the restoration of the gospel, the whole world has had an outpouring of the favor of our Heavenly Father. It has been as the leaven to the lump. This past century has been the most wonderful that the world has ever known in the fields of medicine, mechanics, inventions, science, and many others. Freedom of speech, of the press, and of religion have reached heights never before known. Exertion of individual freedom has made for more liberal forms of government and democracies. Indeed, the Lord has kept his promise. THE century is over poems, songs, stories, and monuments honor the deeds of the faithful. Will future generations take the seeds from their harvest and produce as abundantly as they?

Let us consider the words of the great Emancipator, which I feel apply here: It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion.... Those of us privileged to witness the dawn of a new century are grateful that we have roots nourished by the fertility of so glorious a past. Let me repeat, we are witnessing the turn of a century. Let us pause for a few moments of stock-taking. We are part way up the hill of progress and can look back on what has gone before, and ahead with faith in the future. Unless we choose to go on, we retrogress. We can make our choice. It will take no effort, vision, or imagination to roll backward. It will take all of these and plenty of them to go forward. According to C. F. Kettering: 76 "