NOTES FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for .
Photograph submitted by Rosella F. Larkin
SINGING MOTHERS IN PIONEER COSTUME ASSEMBLED IN FRONT OF THE UTAH STATE FLAG, March 18, 1947
Standing at the right in the back row, Rosella F. Larkin, President, Ogden Twelfth Ward Relief Society; third from right, Second Counselor Nana HI. Cole; fourth from right, Secretary Claire J. Child; fifth from right, organist Olive P. Thomas; seventh from right, assistant organist Stella C. Smith; seventh from left, stake board member Emma M. Gilgen; tenth from left, Mary J. Wilson, member, General Board of Relief Society.
This flag was placed in the Twelfth Ward chapel on the occasion of the Relief Society anniversary party, and the presentation was made significant by pioneer stories and music.
Sister Larkin submits the following description of the Utah State Flag, as it was officially approved by the State Legislature in 1933:
"The State Flag of Utah shall be a flag of blue field, fringed with gold borders, with the following device worked in natural colors on the center of the blue field: The center of the shield; above the shield and thereon the American eagle with outstretched wings; the top of the shield pierced with six arrows arranged crosswise; upon the shield under the arrows the word 'Industry' and below the word 'Industry' on the center of the shield, a beehive; on each side of the beehive, growing sego lilies; below the beehive and near the bottom of the shield, the word 'Utah,' and below the word 'Utah' and on the bottom of the shield, the figures '1847'; with the appearance of being back of the shield there shall be two American flags on flagstaffs placed crosswise with the flags so draped that they will project beyond each side of the shield, the heads of the flagstaffs appearing over the face of the draped flag below the shield; below the shield the flags and upon the blue field, the figures '1896' (the year of statehood); around the entire design a narrow circle in gold."
Adaleine B. Bailey is president of Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society.
Photograph submitted by Leona B. Sonne
EUROPEAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT CONFERENCE OF MISSION PRESIDENTS, MALMO, SWEDEN, 
Left to right: Ethel E. J. Bloomquist, Swedish Mission; Jane Wunderlich, West German Mission; Margaret Petersen, Norwegian Mission; Martha Toronto, Czechoslovakian Mission; Leona B. Sonne, European Mission; Adrianna Zappey, Netherlands Mission; Nida Taggart, Swiss-Austrian Mission; Eliza Petersen, Danish Mission; Gladys Boyer, British Mission; Kate Barker, French Mission.
The women are assembled in front of the beautiful building recently acquired and renovated as the meeting place and branch headquarters of the Malmo District of the Swedish Mission. The building and grounds have been made very attractive by the labors of the missionaries and the saints laboring and residing in this beautiful city in the extreme south of Sweden.
"At the conference of mission presidents held at Malmo, Sweden, July 16th-19th, I had the opportunity to meet all the sisters who have charge of the Relief Societies in the European Mission except Sister Stover, who had returned to Salt Lake City, and Sister Sharp who could not be present. Sister Petersen of Denmark, Sister Toronto of Czechoslovakia, and Sister Wunderlich of the West German Mission, who has not been able to enter Germany yet, had but recently arrived and had not become acquainted with conditions in their respective missions. Sister Sharp of the South African Mission sent a very interesting report of her work, which was read and appreciated.