Literature
Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 8 Appreciation Values in Doctrine and Covenants Reading Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, May 18, 1948 Objective: To appreciate the Doctrine and Covenants as literature through a discussion of values to be received from the Lord's word, THROUGHOUT the study of the Doctrine and Covenants this year, the literary values of this modern scripture have been stressed. It has been our purpose to appreciate the beauty, as well as the truth, of the Lord's word in our day. In all studies of literature there is need at the end of a course to enjoy, to appreciate, to remember. This can well be done in what we may call a literary recital of the choice passages from the Doctrine and Covenants studied during our lessons. In the main, these passages have divided themselves into longer and shorter readings. The longer ones may be illustrated by the following: Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson that the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principle of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true, but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God. We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called, but few are chosen. No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distill upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever (121:34-46). Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. And the voice of warming shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them (1:1-5). Therefore, verily I say unto you, my friends, call your solemn assembly, as I have commanded you.

Home Training Lesson 7 Reverence Elder Joseph Jacobs
For Tuesday, May 25, 1948

Objective: Beginning of time.

VERENCE is profound respect or honor for a holy being or place or an exalted thing. One of the innate characteristics of human nature is that of reverence and respect for divine power—a power greater than that of man. There is something within the breast of every human being which instinctively reaches up for contact with his Maker, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind." This is the first and great commandment (Matt. 22:37-38). This is the true spirit of reverence.

From a quotation in the Doctrine and Covenants we learn that immortal as well as mortal beings give reverence and devotion to Deity: "And thus we saw the glory of the celestial, which excels in all things where God, even the Father, reigns upon his throne forever and ever; before whose throne all things bow in humble reverence and give him glory forever and ever" (76:92-93).

How Should We Treat the Name of the Lord?
Even the name of the Lord is to be treated with great reverence. "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain" (Exodus 20:7). From Clark's Commentary we read: This precept not only forbids all false oaths, but all swearing where the name of God is used, or where he is appealed to as a witness of the truth. It also necessarily forbids all light and irreverent mention of God, or any of his attributes; and we may safely add to all these, that every prayer, ejaculation, etc., that is not accompanied with deep reverence and the genuine spirit of piety, is here condemned also. Whatever the person himself may think or hope, however he may plead in his own behalf, and say he intends no evil, etc.; if he in any of the above ways, or in any other way, takes the name of God in vain, God will not hold him guiltless; he will account him guilty and punish him for it.

Jesus said, as recorded in Matthew 5:34-37:
"But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne: Nor by the earth, for it is his footstool: Neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King. Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black. But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil."

The name of Deity is so sacred that it should not be used frequently. This is the reason the name of the higher Priesthood was changed. There are in the church two priest-hoods, namely, the Melchizedek and Aaronic, including the Levitical Priesthood. Why the first is called the Melchizedek Priesthood is because Melchizedek was such a great high priest. Before his day it was called the Holy Priesthood, after the order of the Son of God. But out of respect or reverence to the name of the Supreme Being, to avoid the too frequent repetition of his name, they, the church, in ancient days, called that Priesthood after Melchizedek, or the Melchizedek Priesthood (D&C 107:1-4).

How Should We Revere Sacred Places?
Reverence for sacred places has been recognized from early Bible days. We read in Genesis:
"And Jacob went out from Beersheba and went toward Haran. And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep. And he dreamed, and behold, a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven; and behold, the angels of God ascending and descending on it. And, behold, the Lord stood above it, and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed; and thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. . . . And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the Lord is in this place; and I knew it not. And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! This is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had set for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it. . . . And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, if God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on, so that I come again to my father's house in peace; then shall the Lord be my God: And this stone which I have set for a pillar shall be God's house" (Gen. 28:10-22).

The story of Moses and the burning bush also depicts reverence for a sacred place:
"Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian; and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, a bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside, and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here am I. And he said, Draw not nigh hither: put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground" (Exodus 3:1-5).

It is likely that from this occurrence the nations of the East have come to perform their religious rites barefooted. The Greeks did so in ancient times and some sects, including the Mohammedans, still observe this custom.

Tourists visiting in the Near East who wish to go into a Mohammedan mosque today may do so provided they remove their shoes, or they may be furnished with slippers which have been previously blessed, to slip over their own shoes, thus preventing any pollution of sacred ground. The temple of Solomon was regarded as the most sacred edifice in all of Israel. Even while it was being built every precaution was taken to keep it so. Note the following passage: And the house, when it was in building, was built of stone made ready before it was brought thither; so that there was neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house, while it was in building (I Kings 6:7). We read about the Court of the Gentiles in the temple of Herod, which indicates that gentiles were permitted to enter only a portion of the temple area. The Holy of Holies was the most sacred part of the temple into which the high priest was permitted to enter. An incident recorded in II Samuel shows in what reverence the Ark of the Covenant was held: And when they came to Nachon's threshing floor, Uzzah put forth his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it; for the oxen shook it. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote him there for his error; and there he died by the ark of God (6:6-7). An incident which demonstrates the feeling of Jesus toward practices carried on in Herod's temple which were contrary to the sacred character of the temple, is recorded in Matthew 21:12-13: And Jesus went into the temple of God, and cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the moneychangers, and the seats of them that sold doves, and said unto them, It is written, My house shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves. How Should We Regard Our Temples Today? Just as in ancient times, so in our day, the dedicating and sanctifying of holy temples are most carefully observed. Note the following excerpts taken from the dedicatory prayer of the Kirtland Temple, given to the Prophet Joseph Smith by revelation: And now we ask thee, Holy Father, in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of thy bosom, in whose name alone salvation can be administered to the children of men, we ask thee, O Lord, to accept of this house, the workmanship of the hands of us, thy servants, which thou didst command us to build. For thou knowest that we have done this work through great tribulation; and out of our poverty we have given of our substance to build a house to thy name, that the Son of Man might have a place to manifest himself to his people. That thy glory may rest down upon thy people, and upon this thy house, which we now dedicate to thee, that it may be sanctified and consecrated to be holy, and that thy holy presence may be continually in this house; And that all people who shall enter upon the threshold of the Lord's house may feel thy power, and feel constrained to acknowledge that thou hast sanctified it, and that it is thy house, a place of thy holiness. And that this house may be a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of glory and of God, even thy house; that all the incomings of thy people, into this house, may be in the name of the Lord; that all their outgoings from this house may be in the name of the Lord; And that all their salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with holy hands, uplifted to the Most High; and that no unclean thing shall be permitted to come into thy house to pollute it. We ask thee, Holy Father, to establish the people that shall worship, and honorably hold a name and standing in this thy house, to all generations and for eternity; that no weapon formed against them shall prosper; that he who diggeth a pit for them shall fall into the same himself; that no combination of wickedness shall have power to rise up and prevail over thy people upon whom thy name shall be put in this house; and if any people shall rise against this people, that thine anger be kindled against them; and if they shall smite this people thou wilt smite them; thou wilt fight for thy people as thou didst in the day of battle, that they may be delivered from the hands of all their enemies. O hear, O hear, O hear us, O Lord! And answer these petitions, and accept the dedication of this house unto thee, the work of our hands, which we have built unto thy name; and also this church, to put upon it thy name. And help us by the power of thy Spirit, that we may mingle our voices with those bright, shining seraphs around thy throne, with acclamations of praise, singing Hosanna to God and the Lamb! And let these, thine anointed ones, be clothed with salvation, and thy saints shout aloud for joy. Amen, and Amen (D&C 109:4 ff.). From the dedicatory prayer of the Salt Lake Temple, given by President Wilford Woodruff, we read: O Lord, we regard with intense and indescribable feelings the completion of this sacred house. Deign to accept this the fourth temple which Thy covenant children have been assisted by Thee in erecting in these mountains.... We come before Thee with joy and thanksgiving, with spirits jubilant and hearts filled with praise, that Thou hast permitted us to see this day for which, during these forty years, we have hoped, and toiled, and prayed, when we can dedicate unto Thee this house which we have built to Thy most glorious name. One year ago we set the capstone with shouts of Hosanna to God and the Lamb. And today we Dedicate the whole unto Thee, with all that pertains unto it that it may be holy in Thy sight; that it may be a house of prayer, a house of praise and of worship; that Thy glory may rest upon it; that Thy holy presence may be continually in it. These, and numerous other quotations which could be cited, show that various places and buildings have been pronounced sacred and due reverence for them is enjoined.

January

It's the season for savings at Sears. Quality is at its peak. While prices hit money-saving lows.
SEARS Main or State at 8th South Dial 5-6651