LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in December. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in December. OUTLINES OF ANCIENT HISTORY. It is necessary for the student who wishes to become acquainted with the tribes of the earth, as they descended from Father Adam, to review succinctly the historical chronology as given in the Bible, with a little reference to the Book of Mormon and Pearl of Great Price. It is our purpose to frame an historical and genealogical ladder which shall reach from our present times back to Father Adam. We have given only the tables and outlines of sacred history in this lesson. The student and teacher should refer to the Bible to substantiate and further illustrate the matter provided in this lesson. Such of our Societies as purchased Smith's Old Testament History will find much assistance briefly prepared in that excellent book. We suggest, however, that too much time be not spent upon this lesson, unless the students care to meet once a week in the evening, as they already do in some of our stakes and wards, to supplement the study which we offer here as a monthly lesson. HISTORICAL OUTLINES OF SACRED HISTORY. Introductory. (a) Malachi 4:5. "Behold I will send you Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord."(b) "And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers; if it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." (As quoted by the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith.) 
 Importance of this work. (a) Doc. and Cov. 110:127, 128. (b) An unbroken chain made by saviors upon Mt. Zion who labor in temples. (c) St. John 20:12. "The U>oks were opened; and another book was opened, which is the Rook of Life; and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." (d) Importance of keeping records accurately. (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 128:8. (e) Vicarious work. Not a modern work. History. A domoic Dispensation. (a) Adam  inspired to read and write  taught children. (b) Enoch  seventh century  called to preach  vision  genealogies. (Slow of speech.) (See Pearl of Great Price.) i c I Methuselah  Enoch's son left on earth to fulfil promise. (d) Noah  flood  three sons and families saved. (e) Peleg  earth divided to the families of the sons of Noah after their generations, in their nations. (f) Tower of Rabel  confusion of tongues. (See Genesis, chapter eleven.) (g) Jared and those with him not confused, led to a promised land  barges  record made. (See Rook of Ether, R. of M.) Hebrew Dispensation. (a) Abram or Abraham: promise to him. (b) Isaac (Rebecca). Ishmael (Hagar). Descendants: Hebrews from Isaac; Arabs and Edomites from Tshmael. (c) Midian, son of Keturah. Father of Midianites. (d) Lot, father of Moabites and Ammonites. (e) Jacob (Israel) : Leah and Rachel, twelve sons. ( f) Esau, father of Edomites. (g* Joseph; his two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh. Israel in Egypt. three Seventy million persons returned went b400 down years to after Egypt in Joseph's under Moses. day; nearly Retained their own manners, language, religion and patriarchal government, but were in bondage. Religions of the Ancient World. 1. Monotheism  belief in one God. 2. Polytheism  belief in many gods. 3. Pantheism  nature as the supreme being. (A circle.) Mosaic Dispensation. (a) Moses the law-giver, slow of speech. Tablets of stone. Gave genealogies of people in Numbers. (b) Deliverance  Land of Canaan. (c) Joshua governed 25 years. Inheritance by lot. (d) Levites. (e) Fifteen judges. Samuel the last. (f) Three kings  Saul, David and Solomon. (g) Kingdom of Israel divided, B. C. 975: Judah (Rhehcboam), Judah and Benjamin; Israel (Jeroboam), ten tribes. (h) Revolt of the Ten Tribes. (i) Kingdom of Israel; nine different dynasties; nineteen kings; 225 years. (j) Shalmanezer, king of Assyria, took Israel captive (200,- 000), ending the national history of the Ten Tribes. 722 B. C. (k) Kingdom of Judah survived Israel 135 years, having but one dynasty and 20 kings. The Jewish Captivity. (a) King Zedekiah, the last king of Judah, ascended the throne 581 B. C. (b) Zedekiah carried captive to Babylon, 589 B. C. Sons slain; eyes put out. Jerusalem taken. Temple burned. People taken to Babylon. Lehi left Jerusalem during Zedekiah's reign before captivity. (c) Colony in Chaldea; comforted in captivity by the prophets; chastised for their disobedience and transgressions. (d) During captivity Babylonian Empire overthrown by Medo-Persian Empire, 538 B. C. Media, descendants of Madai. son of Japheth; Persia, Aryans, akin to the Medes. (e) Cyrus found Jews an oppressed race in whose religion he discovered a considerable resemblance to his own. (Zoroaster) (Daniel 43:36"). Permitted Ezra and Nehemiah to return to Jerusalem with a large concourse. (f) Temple rebuilt. 521-516-515; dedicated. (g) Samaritans, descendants of the original Ten Tribes, mixed later by frequent intermarriage with the heathen nations. (h) Ahasuerus (Xerxes), a Persian, married Esther 473 B. C. (i) Ezra led back another colony to Jerusalem 458 B. C. Stopped all intermarriages with other nations. (j) Ezra and Nehemiah arranged books of the Old Testament; rebuilt walls of city and fortified it under arms. Note: "Babylonian captivity thoroughly cured Jews of idolatry. Henceforth avoided mingling with idolatrous nations." 
 Semitic idolatrous polytheism vanished. Pure spiritual monotheism advanced. The Ten Tribes in the North Country. (a) Ten Tribes started for Canaan but traveled north. In one and one-half years achieved 2,800 miles. Burdened with their flocks and herds, and the old and inform. (b) Led by the Lord to a land in the north. Were they the ancestors of the Teutons? (c) Danish mounds were graves with jewels and trinkets. Danish manner of burying dead similar to habits of Israelites. (d) Legends (Scandinavian). Heaps of stone as landmarks should they wish to return. (e) Israelitish colonies and parts of families left behind; rebellious, infirm, and young. (f) From these remnants it is affirmed sprang the Norsemen and Teutons generally. Old Testament prophecies that Israel, especially Ephraim, should be scattered among the people. Conclusion. European history begins in Greece. "Much of the life we live today, with its political, social and intellectual advantages, its music, painting, oratory and sculpture, its thirst for knowledge and its free institution, was transmitted from the Greek to the Roman, by him to the Teutons, and so handed on to us." (Greece was conquered by the Romans.) MedoPersian Empire was conquered by the Romans who ruled all the country around the Mediterranean. "As at Rome all ancient history converges, so from Rome all modern history be QUESTIONS. gins." What can you say of the mission and immediate descent from Father Adam through Seth? (Read Genesis, chapter 5.) How did Adam learn to write and keep records? (See Pearl of Great Price. Moses 6:5-8; 6:46.) What can you tell of Enoch? How did Noah's three sons settle up the earth? (Genesis, chapter 10.) Who was Peleg? (Genesis 10:25.) When did Jared and his brother go out of the Promised Land? Who are Jacob's twelve sons? When did the Ten Tribes go into the North country? What especial service did Ezra and Nehemiah render to the Jew? What does tradition say about the Danish mounds? Tell what you can of Grecian learning. GUIDE LESSONS. 
 THE FIRST CHRISTMAS DAY. "And there were in the same country, shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by nigiht. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were so' e afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to ah people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you: Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. "And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men" (Luke 2:8-14). Around the name of Christmas is a halo of sweet songs and stories, but none can ever be dearer to the hearts of true Christians than this simple first tale of the birth of the Christ child. In these troublous, tragic times, the words of the heavenly host seem more sanctified than ever. A prayer must be in every Godfearing heart to hasten the day when there will be peace on earth, good will toward men. Read the story aloud and listen to the melting music of its lines. Think of the picture it suggests; read Ben Hur, with its fanciful story, and see how Lew Wallace Has brought these pictures out for use in vivid intensity. The following paragraph of the first Christmas eve is taken from his chapter on the coming of the angels to the shepherds: "That night, like most nights in the winter season in the hill country, was clear, crisp, and sparkling with stars. There was no wind; the atmosphere seemed never so pure. And the stillness was more than silence; it was a holy birth, a warning that heaven was stooping low to whisper some good thing to the listening earth." Following this he gives in dramatic form the story of the coming of the angel to the shepherds, of the singing of the heavenly host, and the visit of the shepherds to see the babe in the manger. Ben Hur is one of the greatest of stories based on the life of the Savior. Yet nothing compares with the Bible itself. Another tale that has won great fame is The Story of the Other Wise Man, by Henry Van Dyke. The spirit of the true Christian is portrayed in a remarkable way in this story. It deals with an imagined fourth wise man who failed to meet the other 
 three magi at the appointed time and place, and spent his lite in search of the Savior  a life of sacrifice, sorrow and noble deeds. His quest seemed unfruitful till at the last in his dying moments he was given the vision of his Master, and he passed to his rest, knowing he had found the Savior whom he had so faithfully followed all his days. A simpler Christmas story  on which children of all ages from ninety to nine enjoy  is The Birds' Christmas Carol, by Kate Douglas Wiggin. It pictures the two extremes of city life. Carol Rird, a rich little girl but an invalid, becomes interested in the ragged little Ruggleses. who live in a kind of "poverty flat" near the Bird mansion. Mrs. Ruggles is a hard-working widow with a large family on her hands. Christmas is coming, and Carol decides to invite the Ruggles children to dinner. The excitement caused by this unexpected lionor, the preparations made for them to appear "in style," the drills that Mrs. Ruggles gives her unruly youngsters in "manners" are very amusing; yet underneath it all is a sweet pathos, and a life lesson on which the reader loves to linger. Another Christmas Carol is that written by Charles Dickens. This has become a classic. and is usually studied in our schools. The theme is the redemption of Scrooge, a miserly old business man and a bachelor, whose love of the dollar has driven every instinct out of his lite and left him sordid and lonely. 1'is partner. Jacob Marley, appears to Scrooge in a dream. Mar ley has been dead for sonic years and he returns to warn Scrooge. of the fate that awaits him if he does not change his life. Then appear in turn three ghosts  the ghosts of the Christmas Past, the Christmas Present, and the Christmas of the Future. Scrooge is taken by the ghost of the past over the scenes of his boyhood; the ghost of the Christmas present asks him to sec the joys of the Christmas time which he has long ceased to share; and the ghost of the future shows him the end towards which his selfish life is leading. In his terror Scrooge wakes from the dream strongly resolved to mend his ways, and he keeps his resolve in a most generous way thereafter. The charming pictures of Christmas, the sweet wholesomeness of the holiday spirit that the story reveals make this a tale that continues to give delight to all. It should lxread every year in our schools and homes. The spirit of Christmas is reflected also by many delightful songs and poems of various kinds. Among the earliest of these are the quaint old carols still sung on Christmas morning in merry cal of England these: and elsewhere. The following stanzas are typiAs Joseph was a walking He heard the angel sing, "This shall be the birth-night, Of Christ our heavenly king. "His birth bed shall be neither In housen nor in hall, Nor in the place of paradise, But in the oxen's stall. From As Joseph Was a Walking. God rest you merry, gentlemen, Let nothing you dismay, For Jesus Christ our Savior, Was born upon this day, To save us all from Satan's power, When we were gone astray. From "God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen." Among the other time-honored Christmas songs are "The Cradle Hymn," by Martin Luther, and "Silent Night, Holy Night," by Von Weber, which are perhaps best known. The sweet simplicity of their soulful lines make them live forever with us. Following is the opening stanza of the last named song: Holy night, silent night, All is calm, all is bright, Round yon Virgin mother and child, Holy infant, so tender and mild, Sleep in heavenly peace, Sleep in heavenly peace. Luther's "Cradle Hymn" is to be found in the Deseret Sunday School Song Book, No. 214. These and other sweet Christmas hymns should often be heard in our homes. Other delightful Christmas poems for children  and grown folks too are "The Very Rest Kind of Christmas Tree," by Henry Van Dyke; "Piccola," Celia Thaxter; "A Real Santa Clans," Frank D. Sherman; "The Fool's Christmas," Florence May Alt. As a final word to close this pleasant task of outlining these few lessons on "Literature for the Home," the writer of these 
 lessons would express appreciation for the kindly spirit with which the lessons have been received, and offer the hope that the seeds sown through them may find constant expression in better books, choicer stories and songs in our homes, and the sharing of these riches constantly around the family fireside. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. Name the ten subjects that have been taken up in the course on "Literature for the Home," during the year. 2. What choice thought has come from this study to you? What practical result has come from the course and found expression in your life or home? 3. For this last lesson of the series, we suggest that a program be planned on "Christmas in Song and Story." Some such outline as the following might well be followed: (a) Christmas Song, "Holy Night," or another. (b) Reading of St. Luke 2:8-14. The First Christmas Story, or have selections from Ben Hur  (two or three pages) taken from the chapter of the Angel and the Shepherds. (c) Telling of the story of The Other Wise Man. Christmas. Luther's Cradle Hymn, or another suggestive of (d) (e) Birds' Christmas Carol, readings from this story. (f) Solo, "The Children's Friend," or some other story appropriate to the occasion. (g) Reading of one or two poems named in this article, (h) Closing song. LESSON IV. Home Economics.