REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE SUBMITTAL OF MATERIAL FOR "NOTES FROM THE FIELD"
THIS section of the Magazine is reserved for narrative reports and pictures of Relief Society activities in the stakes and missions. Its purpose is threefold: (1) to provide a medium for the exchange of ideas and methods for conducting Relief Society work which have proved successful in some organizations and which may be helpful and stimulating to others; (2) to recognize outstanding or unique accomplishments of Relief Society organizations; (3) to note the progress of Relief Society work in various parts of the world. It is recognized that personal accounts of individuals who have long served Relief Society, or who have otherwise distinguished themselves, are always of great interest, but the space available for "Notes From the Field" is so limited in relation to the number of stakes and missions that it must be reserved for reports on the work of the organization rather than that of individuals.
Wards and branches desiring to submit reports for publication in "Notes From the Field" are requested to send them through the stake or mission presidents. It often happens that one or two wards or branches in a stake or mission will send reports on special activities which are being conducted on a stake-wide or mission-wide basis, and, in such instances, it would be to the advantage of the stake or mission to have the report cover the entire activity in the same issue of the Magazine, with all participating wards or branches represented.
Where narrative reports are submitted, with or without accompanying photographs, the name of the stake and ward, or mission and branch, should be given, together with the title of the activity reported, the date, and other pertinent data, including the name, address, and position of the person making the report.
Pictures which are submitted for publication can be used only if they are clear and distinct and will make good cuts for reproduction. Black and white glossy prints reproduce most satisfactorily. Pictures should have the following information written clearly on the back:
Name of stake and ward, or mission and branch Title of picture, stating the activity represented or the purpose of meeting of the group Date picture was taken Name, address, and position in Relief Society of person submitting the picture
Identification of persons in the picture should be made on the reverse side. Names should be given from left to right, written clearly, and spelled correctly. The given names of the women should be used, not their husbands' names (for instance, Sarah D. Erickson, not Mrs. James Erickson).
The positions of the executive officers: president, counselors, and secretary-treasurer should always be listed with their names.
If the photograph has reference to some particular activity, such as sewing, visiting teaching, etc., the name of the leader and her position should also be listed.
Material submitted for "Notes From the Field" should be addressed to the General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah.
 NEBO STAKE (UTAH), PAYSON SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS AND PARTNERS AT A BANQUET January 31, 1946 Photograph submitted by Nadine Brown, Relief Society President of Payson Second Ward when this photograph was taken, now president of Nebo Stake Relief Society. EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, NORTH CAROLINA WEST DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY PARTY Leone W. Doxey, East Central States Mission Relief Society President, reports a delightful banquet celebrating the 104th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. 'The banquet was held in the ballroom of the O'Henry Hotel in Greensboro, North Carolina, March 16th, 1946. More than one hundred fifty men and women attended. At one end of the room on a raised platform was placed a large birthday cake. Each of the twelve presidents of the Relief Societies in the district was invited NOTES FROM THE FIELD 687 to light one of the candles on the cake. An effective pageant was presented representing the lives of the General Presidents of Relief Society. Sister Olive W. Webb was in charge of the banquet and Sister Winifred B. Roberts conducted the program. President and Sister Graham H. Doxey of the East Central States Mission and the district presidency and their wives were guests. The North Carolina West District Relief Society officers are: Vena W. Draughon, President; Ruth S. Gulledge, First Counselor; Olive W. Webb, Second Counselor; Winifred B. Roberts, Secretary-Treasurer. EMIGRATION STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), UNIVERSITY WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SEWING GROUP Front row, seated, left to right: Marilyn Stobbe; Vadna Matson, Second Counselor; Augusta Stobbe, President; Shirley Ann Stobbe; Etta Cowles; Fern Robison, First Counselor; Mary Lou Stobbe. Back row, standing, left to right: Alice Malin; Elizabeth Rickenbach; Lillie Sorenson; Grace Woodbury; Thelma Clark; Henrietta Thurman; Rachel Taylor; La Ree Snow; Clair Sprunt. From Emigration Stake, where Lillie C. Adams is president of the Relief Society, a report of the sewing activities in the University Ward has been received through First Counselor Fern Robison: "During the past winter, 1945-46 the women of the University Ward Relief Society pledged themselves to support a most helpful and thrifty project, that of making their own clothing. Good materials were scarce, but there were many members of the Relief Society group who had at their disposal good materials in pre-war garments, and, with careful planning and cutting, these were fashioned into stylish, good-looking clothes. The president, Sister Augusta Stobbe, completed two dresses and a suit for herself, plus suits for each of her three daughters. The work director, Sister Vadna Matson, assisted each member, in turn, as difficulties arose. By March 17th, the group wardrobe was completed. A fashion show was staged during the evening of March 17th while the University Ward members were being entertained at a banquet in commemoration of the 104th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. In the above photograph each of the women is wearing the dress, suit, or hat which she made for herself." Photograph submitted by Fern L. Robison. 688. WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), POCATELLO FIRST AND THIRD WARD BAZAARS Emily S. Romish, President, West Pocatello Stake Relief Socicty, reports two very successful bazaars. At the First Ward bazaar various kinds of children's and infants' clothing were displayed, together with a large number of sheets, pillowcases, rag rugs, aprons, crocheted doilies, pinafores, pajamas, quilts, dolls, pincushions, and many other useful and beautiful articles. The Third Ward bazaar was composed of eight different booths, each of which included well-made and useful articles of great variety. Photographs of three of the eight booths are shown on the opposite page. WEST POCATELLO STAKE, FIRST WARD BAZAAR Upper picture, handwork section, left to right: Martha Ross; Grace Richards and Karen Jensen, counselors; Sarah Jensen, work director; Allice Jensen, president; Myrtle Stoddard; Olive Larsen; Thora Brown, secretary-treasurer,; Mamie Bird. Lower picture, cooked food section, left to right: Lillian Eggleston; Lael Mausey; Ada Goodersham. NOTES FROM THE FIELD  WEST POCATELLO STAKE, THIRD WARD BAZAAR Top: left to right: Lucy Wardle, sewing chairman, in charge of pillowcase booth: Evelyn Thornock, in charge of tea towels; Sylvia Seelas, in charge of baby booth. Middle: left to right: Stella Price, President Pocatello Third Ward; Marie Hiltabrand, in charge of quilts; Maude Selover and Elva Neeley in charge of miscellaneous booth. Lower: Left to right: Louise Richardson and Etta Walker in charge of the cake booth; Verda Reid, Secretary; Violet Hart, First Counselor; Veta Leyland, Second Counselor, in charge of bazaar.  BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), BASIN BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Front row, left to right: Darlene Hansen, organist; Lottie Wehr, First Counselor; Verla L. Smith, President; Lova Kinghorn, Second Counselor; Ona Scott. Back row, left to right: Ethel Parkins; Louise Tuttle, Magazine agent; Helen Parks; Plet Avery; Clara Smith; Mae Scott, Secretary-Treasurer. Grace E. Allphin, Big Horn Stake Relief Society President, reports that the Basin Ward has been outstanding in all phases of Relief Society work. Photograph submitted by Grace E. Allphin CALIFORNIA MISSION, VENTURA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Seated, left to right: Mary Cotterel; Janet Watt; Julia Johnson. Standing, left to nght: Lillian Johnson; Afton Hodgson; Lavera Curtis; Suzanna Blair; Mae Badger, Frances L. Broadbent, Secretary-Treasurer; Thyra Hale, Second NOTES FROM THE FIELD 691 ? COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH ), MURRAY THIRD WARD VISITING TEACHERS First row, seated, left to tight: Elsie Wiseman; Belle Breakfield: Kate Peterson; Marie Evans; Mary Nelson; Ella French; Arick Kezerian; Josephine Miller; Louise Barthell; Margaret Chivrell; Marguerite Allington; Lottie Evans, First Counselor. Second Tow, standing, left to right: Afton Wallace; Billie Parker; Mary Sabine: Effie White; Clara Knight; Paula Stephan; Duella Hamblin; Kate Morris; Effie Miller; Mary Parker; Bernice Drown; Amber Palmer; Margaret Dawes; Lorene Tranter; Bertha of approximately twelve families each. Five districts comprise a region, presided over by a supervisor. The record achieved has been the result of faithful check-up work by the supervisors, who have acted, also, as extra teachers within their regions, Williams; Myrtle Themos; Mildred Williams; Elma Eskelson. Sister Ella R. Croxford is President of Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, Photograph submitted by Dora W. McMillan, President, Murray Third Ward Relief Society.  COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH) MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES These women have been instrumental in bringing the Magazine subscriptions for Cottonwood Stake from 26 per cent in 1942 to nearly 100 per cent in 1945. Photograph submitted by Sister Ella R. Croxford, President Cottonwood Stake Relief Society.  NEW YORK STAKE, QUEENS WARD, (NEW YORK) RELIEF SOCIETY CONCERT Left to right: La Var Jenson of Ephraim, Utah, piano soloist and accompanist; Earlene Christensen, former Brigham Young University student, pianist; Emily Wright, former student University of Utah, reader; Olive Harris, formerly of Richfield, Utah, soprano; Ruth Miller, pianist. Sister Vera H. Hales, President of Queens Ward Relief Society, in describing this unusually fine concert, reports that a letter of invitation was sent to all the ward Relief Society members and friends. The program of classical music was most ably presented before a large audience, April 26, 1946. Grace C. Woolley is president of New York Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Vera H. Hales NOTES FROM THE FIELD 693 SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), CLARKSTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS For three consecutive years the visiting teachers of the Clarkston Ward have achieved 100 per cent in their activities. Anne M. Farr is president of Smithfield Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Sister Archulious B. Archibald, ward Relief Society President. INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA), CENTINELA WARD PAGEANT, "THE GATE BEAUTIFUL" From Inglewood Stake, where Josephine E. B. Prestwich is president of the Relief Society, a report of the pageant, "The Gate Beautiful," has been received from Josephine Bullock, President of Centinela Ward:  "The pageant was presented March 19, 1946, in commemoration of the organization of the Relief Society. Two outstanding features of the pageant were the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith given 104 years ago to the sisters of the Relief Society; and the reading. By President Josephine Bullock. Of the counsel of President George Albert Smith written for the sisters of the Relief Society today. The program was closed by the congregation singing 'Praise to the Man." After the benediction, refreshments were served." Photograph submitted by Josephine Bullock SOUTH OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), EIGHTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY EASTER PAGEANT Standing, left to right: Beatrice Loftgreen; Louise Swan; Edna Buss; Nellie Van der Zee; Delecta Davis; Elizabeth Lochhead; Edith Quigley; Hilda Halverson; Walter Buss; Mabel Howey; Hellen Hansen; Norma Thomas; Ellen Allred; Minnie Doctor. Seated, center: Mary P. Lambert, Second Counselor, Eighteenth Ward Relief Society, and composer and director of the pageant. Under the direction of Sister Olive M. C. Christiansen, Stake Relief Society President; Sister Nina J. Langford, Stake Secretary-Treasurer, in submitting the above photograph, reports: "The pageant was produced by the Relief Society women in the Sunday evening meeting, March 4, 1946, and was repeated at the Mother's and Daughter's program preceding the South Ogden Stake quarterly conference, May 9th." Photograph submitted by Nina J. Langford NOTES FROM THE FIELD 695 MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA), COOLIDGE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, seated, left to right: Jewel Ray, Second Counselor; Rena Goodman, President; Minnie Wing, First Counselor; Charity Brewer. Second row, standing, left to right: Clara Wootan, Secretary-Treasurer, Betty Ellis; Gladys Ray; Ruth Tiffany; Vilate Jones; Ada Chesley; Opal Moody; May Tiffany; Florence Busby. Sister Vida D. Brinton is president of Maricopa Stake Relief Society. The president of Coolidge Ward, Sister Rena Goodman, reports the following activities: "We are just a few in number and are scattered over a thirty-mile area, but we manage to attend our Relief Society meetings. Our popular activity is sewing, most of which is done for our bazaar which is held each fall. Items made for the bazaar include: pillowcases, dish towels, aprons, and children's wear. Last year most of the articles were made from mash sacks. Each month at our work meetings, we Serve refreshments and give recognition to all of the members having birthdays during that month.", Photograph submitted by Rena Goodman ?>