TRIOLET Merling Dennis Clyde Harvesting love is best each year; Sowing freely to hearts that yearn; Leaving the rest to God, my dear. Harvesting love is best each year. No seed quite leaves the garden sere, Surprising with a quick return. Harvesting love is best each year; Sowing freely to hearts that yearn. Visiting Teachers' Messages Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 4?Courage President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, January 7, 1947 Objective: To show that courage, an outstanding virtue, was possessed by the pioneers; not alone courage to meet physical dangers, but also courage to meet spiritual pitfalls. PIONEERIN Western America one hundred years ago was a hazardous undertaking. It was fraught with trying difficulties, stubborn obstacles, and many serious dangers. 'There were roadways to be made, rivers to ford, and mountain ranges to cross, all in a wilderness which was inhabited by wild animals and barbarous red men. Notwithstanding all these difficulties and dangers, the Mormon pioneers went bravely forward and undertook this gigantic task. Motivated by their religious convictions and their desire for freedom, and with implicit faith in the project, there was engendered within them a courage that was remarkable and outstanding; a courage which enabled them, from the very beginning, men and women alike, to meet with valor and daring their difficulties and problems; a courage which seemed to lift them up, to help them over hard places, to help them to overcome or banish fear, discouragement, and futility;-a courage which helped them to feel and realize that their sacrifices would ultimately bring a rich reward; a courage which enabled them to resist and overcome spiritual pitfalls. Leaving Nauvoo in the dead of winter, February 4, 1846, the saints crossed the Mississippi River on the ice, and formed their first camp at Sugar Creek. It was nine miles from Nauvoo, their beloved city, which they could still see in the distance, and which most of them would never see again. Whitney says: That night, a bitter night, nine children were born in tents and wagons in that wintery camp. How these tender babies, these sick and delicate women were cared for under such conditions, is left to the imagination of the sensitive reader (Whitney, Orson F., History of Utah, Vol. 1, page 249). During all the days of pioneering, quite as important as any other contribution made by the pioneer woman, was her moral courage and inspiration. One of the bronze plaques on Utah's Seagull Monument, located on Temple Square, Salt Lake City, and "Erected in grateful remembrance of the mercy of God to the Utah Pioneers," portrays the pioneer woman. She is the inspiration of the group in which she is placed. She stands erect beside the man, who, with drooping head and relaxed muscles is plainly disheartened.   The children are weary and_ with unfaltering faith into the blue listless. It is the woman, with head of heaven and sees the gulls coming up and muscles tense, who looks to save the crops. Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4