THE ETHICS OF ECONOMY.

	There is a curiously erroneous idea pervad-
ing among certain classes of people that there
is something extremly plebeian about economy,
and conversely that it is a good form to spend,
in an apparently careless manner, with an air
of "I don't care anything abont the cost; I
mean to have it." whether the commodity be
dry good, confectionary or carriage hire. This
free-and-easy way of dispensing one's income is
to a notable extent an attribute of a certain
class of women. Men, who more generally
earn their money, are usually more select in
their methods of spending while they also
spend more liberally. Women of wealth sel-
dom fling money about so lavishly, as having
been accustomed to its use they better under-
stand what money represents. As a usual
thing it is the people of small, but prompt in-
comes, salaried people, who spend the most
lavishly and extravagantly. These, too, are
the people who complain of the cost of actual
living; who grumble about rent and grocers'
bills when they spend each month nearly an
equal sum in little expenses for they know not
what.
	Professor David Swing, of Chicago, has re-
cently been moved to utterance on this univer-
sal complaint about the cost of living, and re-
ferring to it he says:
	But the table is not the only place where the
bill of family expenses need not be large. In
all departments of home-life money is thrown
away. The custom is to open an account at
some popular storehouse and let the dealer
charge what pleases him. Thus the corner
shopkeeper gets rich and the family in the cot-
tage grows poor. Let the rich fatten these
shopkeepers; the humbler class cannot afford
to be charitable. There is no fixed price for
one in ten of the necessary commodities. Peaches
are fifty cents a basket or a dollar a basket, not
according to quality, but according to the sel-
ler and the place where sold. It is well to buy
of the dollar man if we wish to help him along,
but if the buyer needs help he would better
look up the fifty-cent man—the peaches being
the same. The millionaire sends out and pur-
chases a clothes wringer for three dollars; that
is well; it helps the seller; but the humbler
housekeeper can buy the same article exactly
for two-thirds of that sum. One thing is cer-
tain, that nothing is more flexible and submis-
sive than this very expense bill. But it does
not follow that one must have an enormous in-
come, and be beyond the reach of all perad-
venture. It is far better to take some risk
than to be homeless. A plain dinner in one's
own home, with one's beloved wife at the other

[Column 2]
end of the table, is better than a table d' hote
feast away from these other attractions. If eat-
ing were the main aim of existence, then the
proposition to sell wife and children and home
and books and hire a French cook would be
worthy of consideration.
	There is a further consideration involved in
this matter of scattering one's income about.
We spend our money for what we like. Our
expenses represent our tastes and our tenden-
cies. If our idea of social intercourse is that
of fragmentary conversation between the
courses of a French menu, we buy dinners for
our friends. If books and pictures represent
happiness we invest in those. If in dry goods,
we contribute to the prosperity of the merchant.
At all events we spend our money for what we
like, and are like that for which we spend our
money.
	It is an indication of character, and has also
its inflex influence on character. The matter
of amusement-going is one involving several
interests. Unquestionably the money invested
in a good dramatic performance or a fine opera
is a better investment than if put in the bank.
It is capital invested in the culture of life.
But who are you who have no interests, no en-
tertainment, no occupation at home, that you
must each night contribute your money and
your time to a company of strolling players,
whose performance may be all very well for
empty-headed people who must be externally
amused, but is quite the reverse for one who
has in himself the power of intellectual activ-
ity. The conservation of energy and of time
is a lesson greatly needed in the average indi-
vidual life of our great cities.—Selected.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this office.

