	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Camp life in February was quite a novel ex-
perience, and might be called a pleasant one
at Sugar Creek when compared with what was
laying before us; more especially the youthful
portion—they feeling no particular responsibil-
ities resting upon them, nor any great hard-
ships as yet. The band played every evening,
and Hans C. Hanson, an adopted son of my
parents, was very fond of playing his violin.
My husband would often join him with his flute,
and there being quite a number of young people
in my father's family we could form a cotillion
or French four by the big log fire, and often we
did so at evening, and danced to amuse our-
selves as well to keep our blood in proper
circulation. I there took my first lesson in
the Danish waltz. The weather was so cold
that it was impossible to keep warm without
exercise. Many declared that they had never
suffered so much from the cold as they did at
Sugar Creek, and we were informed that nine
children were born the first night the Saints
camped there. Feb. 5th, 1846. The inspiring
music by William Pitts' brass band, which was
organized into companies of tens to travel to-
gether, often gladdened the hearts of the Saints,
and helped greatly to keep their spirits from
sinking. They appointed Wm. Cahoon and
Howard Egan captains over them.
	Before starting from Sugar Creek the fol-
lowing memorial was addressed "To his excel-
lency Governor of the Territory of Iowa:
HONORED SIR:
	The time is at hand in which several thou-
sand free citizens of this great Republic are to
be driven from their peaceful homes and fire-
sides, their property and farms, and their
dearest constitutional rights, to wander in the
bareen plains and sterile mountains of western
wilds, and linger out their lives in wretched ex-
ile, far beyond the pale of professed civilization,
or else be exterminated upon their own lands
by the people and authorities of the State of
Illinois. As life is sweet, we have chosen
banishment rather than death, but, sir, the
terms of our banishment are so rigid that we
have no sufficient time allotted us to make the
necessary preparations to encounter the hard-
ships and difficulties of these dreary uninhab-
ited regions. We have not time allowed us to
dispose of our property, dwellings and farms,
consequently many of us will have to leave
them unsold, without the means of procuring
the necessary provisions. clothing, teams, etc.,
to sustain us but a short distance beyond the
settlements; hence our persecutors have placed
us in very unpleasant circumstances.
	To stay is death by fire and sword; to go in-

[Column 2]
to banishment unprepared is death by starva-
tion. But yet, under these heart rendering cir-
cumstances; several hundreds of us have started
upon our dreary journey, and are now en-
camped in Lee County, Iowa, suffering much
from the intensity of the cold, some of us are
already without food, and others have barely
sufficient to last a few weeks; hundreds of
others must shortly follow us in the same un-
happy condition. Therefore,—
	We, the presiding authorities of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as a com-
mittee in behalf of several thousand suffering
exiles, humbly ask your Excellency to shield
and protect us in our constitutional rights,
awhile we are passing through the Territory
over which you have jurisdiction. And,
should any of the exiles be under the necessi-
ty of stopping in this Territory for a time,
either in settled or unsettled parts, for the pur-
pose of raising crops, by renting farms or up-
on public lands, or to make the necessary pre-
parations for their exile in any lawful way, we
humbly petition your Excellency to use an in-
fluence and power in our behalf, and thus pre-
serve thousands of American citizens, together
with their wives and children, from intense
suffering, starvation and death. And your pe-
titioners will ever pray."
	In the diary of President Young was writ-
ten as follows: "Our homes, gardens, orchards,
farms, streets, bridges, mills, public halls, mag-
nigcient Temple and other public improvements,
we leave as a monument of our patriotism, in-
dustry, economy, uprightness of purpose, and
integrity of heart, and as a living testimony of
the falsehoods and wickedness of those who
charge us with disloyalty to the constitution of
our country, idleness and dishonesty."
	On the first day of March the majority of
the companies left their encampment. The fol-
lowing is copied from Sister Jane B. Taylor's
journal:
	"Sabbath morning, March 1st, a meeting was
called for the purpose of giving general instruc-
tions to the brethren regarding their journey.
Bro. Kimball exhorted the Saints to be diligent
in prayer to Almighty God all the day long. He
called especially upon the heads of families to at-
tend daily to family worship, and to give heed
to counsel, assuring them that if they did so
God would bless them, and angels of God
would go before them, and would be the break-
ers up of our way. He left the camp with
family shortly after meeting was dismissed—
Brigham's family towards evening."
	There was a great amount of sympathy mani-
fested by the people as we traveled through
Iowa. Many visited our camps, and wherever
the companies stopped our men were able to
find employement. The splendid music made
by the Nauvoo Brass Band quite surpassed
anything that had been heard in that part and
they were cordially invited to play at every 
settlement, and requested to give a number of
concerts—this they did after consulting the
Presidency, and for which they were gererous-
ly recompensed. Thus we see that God did
fulfil the predictions made that day by my
father, and truly His angels went before us,
and He was the breaker up of our way.
	It will be remembered by those familiar
with our history that a letter was received
about this time from Samuel Brannan, con-
taining a copy of rather a strange agreement
between him and a Mr. A. G. Benson, which
he desired the authorities to sign. This, it
seems, was read at a council held by a number
of the Apostles in a valley half a mile east of
the camp. Sam Brannan was scheming for
nought but worldly profit, and wanted the
Latter-day Saints who had been exiled to join
him, and a host of political demagogues to as-
sist them in their plans to settle upon the sea-
shore, then to rob them, after which the ar-
mies of the U. S. could compel them to sub-

[Column 3]
mit. Brannan already had charge of the
company of Saints who went around in the
ship Brooklyn, whose sad story "the half has
not been told." The idea of our deliverance,
coming through such a sonrce. Ex-Postmas-
ter Kendall and Benson, his agent, and others
had hood-winked Brannan into the belief that
"unless the leaders of the Church signed an
agreement with them, to which the President
of the United States, he said, was a "silent
party," the government would not permit the 
Mormons to proceed on their journey west-
ward. This agreement required the pioneers
"to transfer to A. G. Benson & Co., and to
their heirs and assignees the odd numbers of
all the lands and town lots they may acquire
in the country where they may settle. In
case they refused to sign the agreement the
President, it was said, would issue a proclama-
tion, setting forth that it was the intention of
the Mormons to take sides with either Mexi-
co or Great Britain against the United States,
and order them to be dispersed." This was
one of the plans instituted by Lucifer, who
wanted to reconcile God and Baal, but we had
wiser heads, who understoood their duty bet-
ter. President Young and his brethren were
determined to carry out the plans previously
laid out by Joseph Smith; and they saw the
wisdom of settling in a country where they
could be out of the reach of ruthless and ex-
terminating mobs, until Zion had increased
ad put on her strength. The Apostles did
not desert their people to run from their ene-
mies, as advised by Mr. Benson, to avoid be-
ing arrested; but it was in God that they trust-
ed, and to Him alone the pilgrims looked for
that protection which had been withheld from
them by their own countrymen. And it was
Him who led and placed them here upon the
"mineral back-bone" of the continent, and
this fact, with the wonderful prosperity that
has attended the Latter-day Saints, makes it a
constant eye-sore to "Uncle Sam."
	In that first exodus there was such a great
desire among the people and such a determina-
tion to emigrate with the first company that
there were hundreds started without the nec-
essary outfit. They could neither procure suf-
ficient teams nor provisions, which retarted
our progress, and was the cause of a greater
amount of suffering than there would other-
wise have been. And my father, in speaking
of it, said, under the circumstances it would
take years to reach the mountains.
	Our difficulties commenced the first day that
we started from Sugar Creek; and my trials as
well. My father had one large family carriage
in which mother and the children and most of
the women folds were obliged to ride or else
walk, as his wagons were all so heavily loaded;
I did not consider that my marrying had les-
sened my claims, nor given any one else the
right to my place by the side of my mother,
and it was something of a surprise and a
trial to my weak faith to find that my father's
family had become so large that he had not
conveyances for them. One of his wives
(Christine Golden) who came from Philadel-
phia and was living with the family of Bro.
Jedediah Grant at Sugar Creek, was unknown
to me until I met her there. She was a very
proud-spirited woman, and that morning father
sent her to his carriage, but finding it crowded
full she turned without a word and went and
rode that day with Sister Grant. After be-
coming acquainted we made our confessions,
and many a time we have referred to that day
and laughed heartily over it, as well as other
things that once vexed and tried us. At every
bad place the teams had to be doubled, and
the first day we were detained, it seemed to me
hours, while they crossed over a deep ravine
and drew the loaded wagons up a steep hill on
the other side. The rest had all got out of the
carriage, and while I sat holding the reins the


wind was so cold and piercing that it seemed
to me as if I should perish. We only made
six miles and encamped for the night on a
small creek about fifteen miles from Farming-
ton. "The same evening President Young ar-
rived with the remainder of the camp, except
the artillery, which came up later in the even-
ing." (H. K. Whitney's Journal.) The
snow had to be cleaned away to pitch the tents,
and our beds were made upon the frozen
ground. We were not blessed with a stove
in our tent that night and it was impossible to
get warm by the camp fire; so that night I laid
nothing off, not even my hood or josie. But
the weather moderated before morning and
the back bone of winter was broken. We
started from there about noon and traveled
only seven miles in consequence of the bad-
ness of the road. We passed through Farm-
ington on the 3rd and encamped three miles
beyond—making ten miles that we traveled
that day—the mud made traveling almost im-
possible. We overtook President Young here,
also Bishop Miller, who with his company had
been encamped about a week.

To be Continued.


