BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Many thanks, dear madame, for your kind
and prompt response to my letter; I will en-
deavor to answer it seriatim.
	I am pleased to take the place you have so
kindly allotted me, as one of the "beads" on
your "rosary;" which you keep "proudly and
lovingly by your side"—I fully realize the
truth of your remarks that women should draw
nearer to each other, and I have long been
convinced that it is cultivated souls that most
easily amalgamate, and the genial soul discov-
ers its congenial affinity, even in the dark.
This assertion I could readily elaborate, but
must not be too prolix, and the fact is patent;
a large heart and a broad brain are necessary
to form and cement that friendship which is
organized with the spirit, and with the under-
standing. The training of woman has been
and still is so defective; their schools need to
be sent to school that they may cease to mar
what God and some earthly parentage have of-
ten made so beautiful! Poor woman! I have
at this moment an "open vision" of the gener-
al teaching of girls from infancy upwards, and
I feel it marvelous that they are as good as
they are. God is at the helm and save the
frail human bark from "breakers" in a thou-
sand instances.
	How you express my own sensations when
you tell me yours. Your pride when you read
a noble article from the pen of a woman. I
read on and what an echo I hear in my heart
to your truthful workds. I can by rejoice
at your remark that my letter "coming before
breakfast gave you a pleasant beginning for

[Column 2]
the new day"—may I ever give you this pleas-
ure when you read my letters.
	Oh, no, dear lady, there is "no antagonism 
between us on account of religion," we will 
not even name that unless en passant, or you 
make an inquiry about it, and then you will 
find mine "the pen of a ready writer," for on 
that subject I am always "at home;" I am like 
you in respect of searching for truth, the 
hand-maid of God; and I want to behold  her 
in her subline nudity as she came from the 
courts of heaven; I want no tinsel of the world 
to garble her chaste and beautiful form, and 
may my eyes ever be pure and clear enough to 
behold and appreciate her. You speak of the 
opinions and the judgements by which you are 
surrounded. Let me say, the day of judgement is 
still in the future, though many presume to 
usurp the seat; as a people we should say with 
David in an hour of trial, "Let me fall into the 
hands of God, and not into the hands of man." 
	Your following remarks upon the different 
religions having a field for action allowed them,
is just; most righteous would it be that the L. 
D. S. have this same field of free action that 
they may develop themselves. Permit me to
say you are in error in speaking of the 
"corruptions," et. cetera. In the principles of 
our church there are no "corruptions," they 
are perfect, becaus God-given and not the 
work of man. Whatever is wrong among its 
members is their own work, and for that they 
must be responsible; it requires a very pure,
unselfish, broad-souled being to make a good 
Latter-day Saint. You say you have a relig-
ion of your own, and who has not? Especially 
one of strong individuality and a deep thinker 
—such bow to the statute laws of their 
church, but need the common law for the creed 
of their own souls and their own organizations,
so various and so complex is this said human 
organism! 
	Now you allude to polygamy and the "vir-
tuous indignation" out there; you are right-
eously sarcastic on their order of things; you 
mean to be just, but dear madam, "compari-
sons are odious" in such a matter, there are 
none, there can be none in time nor in eterni-
ty; your following words are good, and whole 
sheets might be written, for verily it is a pro-
lific theme; but I must remember it is a letter 
and not a homily I am writing. 
EXTRACT 2.
	I have just been reading the clipping you 
sent me from the "Daily Telegraph." I should 
like to sit face to face with the writer for a 
short time; I would set him a chair and then
say, allow me to criticize this writing of yours 
which I hold in my hand. In the first place 
you know nothing of the character of the man 
you so flippantly and unsparingly cut up as 
though you were an omniscient being. You be-
lie your own judgment in almost every part,
would such an equivocating witness be admit-
ted into any court where justice held her bal-
ance even? Judge ye all who read this article 
with their eyes open and no veil on their un-
derstanding; Brigham Young was as far above 
your garbled criticism as was Jesus Christ 
above that of the Jews and the Romans popu-
lace. 
	I would show him  where he knew he lied, 
because he contradicts himself, and I would 
show plainly that he is a "boughten article." I 
would also ask him, do you positively believe 
that a quarter of a million of people are all

[Column 3]
fools? The brainless, heartless beings you por-
tray them? My God! I wish the vision of 
your mind could be opened, that knowledge 
could be given unto you for a time, long enough 
to ever after give you common sense, the 
greatest gift  God, then your eyes wouid be 
open and you would behold your nudity—I 
would have liked to have placed you under 
the influence of that quiet eye that would have 
pinned you to your seat by the volley of truth,
of honesty, of power and of reproof which it 
would have emitted. Yes, I—only a woman 
would have made that man feel small as he had 
never felt before by the simple power of the 
spirit of truth which I posses as the gift of 
God, which surely would have been within me 
at the time I spoke to him. 
	Ah! one moment these scribblers speak of 
Brigham Young as a marvel among men, "One 
of the most successful men the present genera-
tion has known," and in the next sentence 
brand him as an arch impostor, "a man of no 
education and culture." They get a glimpse 
of the grandeur of the man's character, and 
they cannot but own it, or stamp themselves as 
ignorant dolts, but they try to throw it into the 
shade by speaking of his low birth, his non-ed-
ucation, et cetera. 
	What dupes such writers must be to their 
own narrow creed, to believe that a man unaid-
ed bya power not often known or acknowledged 
upon the earth, and without a collegiate edu-
cation, (which the world puts in the place of 
God) could have gathered together a quarter 
of a million of people—offering them no riches 
or aggrandizement of this world—but "sacri-
fice" is the first word of the covenant—aban-
donment of home and loved ones—a journey 
through a long and wearisome travel to a wil-
derness where no friends were waiting to re-
ceive them, no shelter to their worn-out frames 
but in the wagons in which they had made the 
journey, no food but what remained of that
which they had brought. Was rebellion heard 
against the LEADER of this mighty people?
Verily, no! Faith in God and this very lead-
er made "the rough places smooth" and the 
dark places plain. Wait-and see what history 
will tell of the man now, so belied, so mis-
judged, so misunderstood; it is sufficient for him 
and for this people to know, he was led by the 
hand of God-that all authorities in the Church 
of Latter-day Saints are led by the same spir-
it if they are in the path of duty—the most 
simple and feeble L. D. S. feels and knows 
there is a POWER mighter than man that holds 
ans guides the destinies of this "peculiar peo-
ple" The "Daily Telegraph" writer has faded 
from my mind, I seem to need one of Her-
schell's telescopes to again make him palpable-
this is a just and true figure of how the ene-
mies, and the opposers, and the would-be-wise,
and the skeptic, and the infidel, and every 
thing that hurts, or offends, or blights the pros-
pect, or impedes the progress, or for a time 
destroys happiness and peace, and every voice 
will be hushed that is screaming "sedition, re-
bellion, disloyalty to the constitution, evict
those people of the mountains," et cetera. We
will wake one morining and behold all such 
silent, the night had carried them away, and 
"joy cometh in the morning." Foot to foot,
shoulder to shoulder, hand to hand, heart to 
heart, brain to brain, like well-traiued soldiers 
let the Latter-day Saints move on. "The sword  
of the Lord and of Gideon" being thier 
mouth.


