EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister, I have been made pleased with
your pen-pictures of natural objects I love so
well;, what a fascination there is in gazing, even
mentally, on "the old forest," "the moss
grown rocks," "the sea—the shells and the
corals, gems of the ocean, the ferns and
flowers and clinging moss." We love to call
up these associations, and with them emotions
of the "auld lang syne" hinted at in the beau-
tiful verses: "In my first primeval childhood."
Our religion is full of poetry of this kind. The
"memory of the past" extends indefinately
backwards, expecially when the Urim and
Thummim ("the hights and perfections") of
the Gospel are with us. Then we can realize
dimly, dreamily it may be, something of the
past, when we dwelt in the presence of our Di-

[Column 2]
vine Father and delightful thought, of our
Divine Mother.
	And, then, when we sit beneath the canopy
of heaven, and are animated by a perception
of its vastness, what a sense of freedom is rea-
lized, although, as you remark, "The most love-
ly things of earth seem insignificant compared
with the grandeur and exquisite beauty of the
starry heavens." You have added to the pic-
ture, "by moonlight," which lends an addition-
al charm to the scene.
	As to your "guess," "Some day, may be, we
shall enjoy all these beauties and more, and
our hearts and souls be satisfied?" We shall.
	Now, the "Transcendalist" tells us that our
brain has been made for us, and that associa-
tions are mentally reproduced by our environ-
ments, which bring to the mind pictures of the
past as they were seen by our progenitors.
This is very kind of the philosophers, but I
would rather believe that we have a dim, it
may be a dreamlike remembrance of the past.
I think that our conception of "transcendental
physics" is more rational. If we have enjoyed
the beautiful things of our "primeval" garden,
where the flowers and trees, the living waters
and the living light were none the less lovely
because we were innocent; why not, by the
light of that spirit that "shall bring nll things
to our remembrance," have a glimpse now and
then of past beauties to cheer us on the way?
	As to the desires for "culture in art, litera-
ture, and the studies of nature," Parley P.
Pratt gives us some beautiful illustrations of
the influence of the Holy Spirit in his "Key
to Theology," And to some of us, who have,
in a degree, receieved of the things of the king-
dom to which we have been made heirs, to
whom the patent of nobility has been given,
signed, sealed and delivered by the living
Priesthood of our Heavenly Father; what won-
der if, at times, the remembrance of the glories
of our "primeval childhood" should be re-ec-
hoed in our souls and gladden our mental eyes
with their sweet sounds and dazzling beauties?
	I thank you, my sister, for your kind words,
they remind me that I am a Latter-day Saint.
What a glorious world you have to sow the
seeds of truth—seeds which never, never die!
	You shall have something for your valua-
ble magazine, I am glad of your prayers—
The prayers of the Saints have often aided
and sometimes given me a new lease of life.
	Very faithfully yours in the Gospel, with
fervent wishes for your prosperity,
