HOLIDAY TIMES. 

	As the holiday season approaches it brings
to one and all many thoughts and peculiar to the
time. In youth they are joyous, not serious
thoughts; bright and fanciful pictures present
themselves, holding out a panorama of beauti-
ful visions where gladness, merriment and
feasting abound.  Who shall say this is not
good, and exhilirating to the mind and body? 
No one can dispute the fact.  We all know by 
experience, who have lived long in this world, 
that nothing is more injurious to health than
depression of spirits.  "Sadness tends to death,"
was a favorite saying of one of our dear sisters
who has gone from our midst, but whose ex-
ample of cheerfulness under the most trying 
circumstances of life is worthy of imitation. 
Courage to bear adversity is commendable, 
courage in poverty, if it be honest poverty, is 
a true sign of heroism.  It is easy to hold up 
one's head in prosperity, that requires no par-
ticular quantity of courage whatever, but to 
shrink into a nutshel because fortune, the gid-
dy dame, has been playing us some mad freak
is ignoble.  Others may frown upon one be-
cause of adversities, because of an empty purse, 
or "lack of the needful," but one should pre-
serve his own equinamity, should think well of 
himself, should have the courage to look his 
friends in the face, if his  honor has been
maintained through it all, and congratulate
himself that he has the stamina to brave mis-
fortune; it is a proof of genuine character not
to sink under an accumulation of difficulties. 
	
	"Dearly bought the hidden treasure
	Finer feelings can bestow!
	Chords that vibrate sweetest pleasure
	Thrill the deepest notes of woe."

	Never was anything more strictly true than
these poetic sentiments of Robert Burns.  It is 
indeed those who feel the most keenly who en-
joy most and who suffer most It is argued by 
some wise acres that all pain is alike, but the
most learned medecin knwos that there is all
the difference imaginable in the degrees of in-
tensity of bodily suffering, and the heart as 
well. Tell me that all men and women are 
alike, they all suffer alike, all enjoy alike, it is 
not true. Our intelligence teaches us differ-
ently when we reflect and reason upon the sub-
ject. 
	Let me not digress. I was intending to 
write of holiday times; well, even this has as
much to do with the poor as the rich, they en-
ter into the solid enjoyment of these festive oc-
casions with as true a relish for pastime and 
happy reunions, as do those whose wealth and
grandeur make them the cynosure of all eyes. 
But those who have means at their command
might be  more intensely happy if they sought
to bless the meek and lowly, and without os-
tentation in some delicate manner bestow such
attention as would afford grateful appreciation
without woundi[-]g the sensibility of the reci-
ient.To know how to scatter bounties grace-
fully is as ingenious a matter and requires as 
much tact and skill as to probe a wound in or-
der to heal it.  Jesus said, "Take heed that ye
do not your alms before men to be seen of 
them."
	Why do we not follow the teachings of our
divine Master? He sought out the poor and
visited them.  He went not into the mansions
of the great of the earth, but into the hedges
and byways, and He said, "Blessed are the
meek, for they shall inherit the earth." There 

[Column 2]
may be a shadow at the holiday season or 
times, even on the Christmas day when all 
should be at peace with one another and all the
world, but even that may be sanctified to the
good of those who accept all the vicissitudes of 
life as dispensations of a divine providence
for the best good of the human family.  A lit-
tle pensiveness is beautiful mingeld with the
hilarity of a Christmas gathering, the blend-
ing of the more sober and thoughtful with the 
gay and hilarious gives tone to the holiday pic-
ture, and seasons the two elements, softening
and subduing the more ecstatic joy. and these
elevate and modify the sober and reflec-
tive.  And one can scarcely help feeling a holy
awe and reverence even on the most joyful
Christmas occasion, when recalling the incident
that led to the celebration of the most impor-
tant event which has occurred in the history
of the world since the tragedy which trans-
pired in the Garden of Eden.  Therefore it is 
meet to mingle tears and smiles on such an im-
portant anniversary. 
	
	"The time draws near the birth of Christ; 
	The moon is hid; the night is still; 
	The Christmas bells from hill to hill
	Answer each other in the mist."

	O, how significant are these choice lines of 
Tennyson; how many hearts can echo the re-
frain; a mist of pearly tears envelops many a 
household at these holiday times; and yet 'tis
sweet to feel thus, 'tis even sacred, so much so 
that one would not lessen the pain for the ex-
treme of pleasure. 'Tis sublime to contem-
plate the glory of immortality, and when we 
recall the birth and resurrection of our blessed 
Savior, our hearts are enlarged, our souls in-
spired with a divine enthusiasm that blends in 
harmony the celestial elements of our nature
with the immortal kinship.  We are not what 
we were, but what we would be; 

	"With trembling fingers do we weave
	The holly round the Christmas hearth; 
	A rainy cloud possess'd the earth; 
	And sadly fell our Christmas eve."

	"At our old pastimes in the hall
	We gambol'd, making vain pretense
	Of gladness, with an awful sense
	Of one mute shadow watching all."

	Are there any homes where no shadow falls
on Christmas day? From out these happy yet
shadowy households has past perhaps the most
glorious, the most perfect, the most complete
personification that made life dear and desira-
ble. On Christmas day, once the advent of 
the blessed, the precious Messiah, are we not
permitted to obtain a glimpse of the "beyond,"
and to commune in secret meditation, in si-
lence, with those whose lives were interwoven
with ours, and who can never pass from our
memory while time endures. Blessed day! 
And blessed memories thou bringest, for though
joy waits on thy footsteps, and mirth and gaie-
ty are thy handmaidens, yet withal thou hast
a silent shadow in thy train of followers, it 
is the pall that hangs forever like a mantle
over the altar of consecration, where mortals
bow in adoration of the Omnipotent, and ac-
cept the inevitable, feeling assured of the felic-
ity that those attain to, who pass the ordeals 
necessary that their names may be written in 
the Lamb's Book of Life. 	AUNT EM.


The power of a man's virtue should not be 
measured by his special efforts, but by his or-
dinary doing.—Pascal. 

	Letters, or at least the letters of most peo-
ple, are unsatisfactory after long absence. The 
mystery that we want to penetrate, the soul
that we want to reach with our soul, cannot un-
veil itself to us on a sheet of paper, even if it
yearn to do so, and is willing to let us know as 
much as we can understand.—Jean Ingelow.


