EFFECTS OF THE GOSPEL.

	The fruits of the Gospel are life and salvation,
so we will take this as the key to our subject,
whose minute effects are countless, and we can
only tell a few, trusting they may serve as a
stimulant to thinking minds in studying upon
the principles of the Gospel, and its wonderful
effects upon the children of men. We will look
for a moment at the case of our first parents,
Adam and Eve, immediately after their trans-
gression and fall; cast out of the presence of God,
with whom they had walked in the Garden of
Eden, bowed down with grief and shame at
His displeasure, feeling bitterly the weight of
the curse resting upon them.

[Column 2]
	We do not know how long they were left in
this state of darkness and misery, but we know
that after a time God revealed to them the Gos-
pel plan of life and salvation, that it changed
all their weeping and mourning into songs of
joy and praises unto God for the mercies and
blessings made known unto them relating, not
only to themselves, but unto all their posterity.
It gave them strength to brave the thorns and
briers, the pain, and all the ills of their new con-
dition, as they went forth to work our their sal-
aation, to learn the sweet by the bitter in their
journey back to the presence of God.
	Turn to the Bible and read the effects of this
Gospel upon the disciples of Christ; how it
called them from their various avocations in life
to follow Him, the greatest teacher of the Gos-
pel the world has known. It gave those follow-
ers of Christ, those saints of former days, power
to battle against sin and Satan, to withstand
temptation, to bear the persecution heaped upon
them, and to many it gave the power to lay
down their lives for its principles. It sustained
Job in all his afflictions; gave strength to Paul
in his endeavors to sustain and spread abroad its
truths, and courage to David to dare the man-
dates of unjust and wicked men. Its principles
led Enoch and his followers on to perfection, so
they had to be removed to a higher, purer
abode.
	Let us now look for a moment at the effects of
the lack of the Gospel among men. Do you
think if the Jews had possessed one spark of its
spirit and light they would have crucified Jesus,
and said, "Let His blood rest upon us and our
children." No, its light had gone out; been des-
troyed by the evils and abominations that filled
the nation. Would the world have mocked and
derided Noah as he builded the ark and warned
them of the coming destruction? No, it is the
utter absence of the spirit of the Gospel, its
principles and power, that brings ruin, misery
and desolation upon individuals and upon na-
tions.
	We can read the records of the past, can trace
therein the marvelous results of the Gospel, see
its mighty effects. How Israel was prospered
and blessed while she walked in its light: how
Egypt was favored of the Lord while she heark-
ened to its promptings, and the dire results of
both in failing to regard its principles and teach-
ings.
	But let us come nearer home that we may
not only read but see its workings and results.
It was that which sustained our Prophet Joseph
Smith through years of intense labor and perse-
cution until he established again in the earth
the true Church of Christ; until he began again
a work that reaches from the beginning unto the
end of time. Its voice has reached unto the
ends of the earth; no spot so high, so low or des-
olate, but it has or will reach, as thousands of
our Elders testify, and as tens of thousands of
the dispersed of Israel bear witness who have
gathered from the Islands of the Seas and from
parts afar off. We have seen by its magic power
the desert places become fruitful fields and smil-
ing gardens; the restoration of faith and confi-
dence almost fled from earth. The work is on-
ward; the battle for a time unceasing; but weary
not, for there will come a day of victory and
rest, for the Great God has decreed it, and when
the work of the Gospel is fully completed we
will find our sin-stricken world redeemed and
restored to that high position from which it has
fallen.								HOPE.


