BE DILIGENT AND FAITHFUL.

	Should we not make it our daily business to
live our religion according to our professions,
walk uprightly as becometh the children of the


Most High? Why have we come here, is it
not that we may prepare ourselves to enter into
a higher and holier life, which is to last forever?
In what way shall we prepare for the next life,
is it in repining and complaining of our lot,
wasting our time in frivolity and nonsense?
Should it not be a question with us, in what
way can we use our time, which has been al-
loted to us here, in wisely preparing ourselves
for that great future where we shall reap the re-
ward of our doings here upon this earth? Would
it not be pleasant to contemplate that while liv-
ing here to-day that we are trying to do the
very best we know how, seeking continually to
know and do the mind of our Father which is
in heaven being obedient to those whose right
it is to guide us along, ever striving to live hum-
ble and prayerful. Jesus said that for every
idle word and thought we will be called to give
an account. Have not all of us a talent, one if
not more, if so, should we not put that talent
out to usury, ever striving to do good, be kind
and loving to our parents, brothers and sisters,
and all those with whom we are associated.
Can we be in the society of the kind and pure
without feeling comforted and strengthened un-
der such an influence? If we expect to associate
with the intelligent we must seek to become in-
telligent ourselves. Should we not be meek and
lowly that we may become more and more like
our Elder Brother, Jesus Christ, who said,
"Where He was His should be also." To pre-
pare ourselves to be like Him must we not fol-
low out those sublime teachings where He said,
"Do unto others as you would wish others to do
unto you, to forgive others their trespasses as
we hope to be forgiven our trespasses." Jesus
also said, "If you love me keep my command-
ments." Are we diligent in keeping the com-
mandments of God as we receive them from
time to time? Jesus also said, "Let your light
shine before men that others seeing your good
works might glorify your Father which is in
Heaven;" also, "He that is ashamed of before God
and His holy angels, and he that is not ashamed
of me before men him will I not be ashamed of
before my Father and His holy angels. Let us
then be up and doing, striving with all our
might to so live that we may have a testimony
within us concerning the work of God in these
last days, which shall be like a well of living
water springing up unto eternal life. The
pleasure of this life are nothing compared with
those we experience when we feel that we are
living up to what we profess, walking in the
line of our duty, and doing good.
						AUNT HANNAH.
	Nephi.


