EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We have received, from one of our favorite
contributors, a Christmas Story for our next
number. It is a true story graphically told. We
are exceedingly grateful for the article, and

[Column 2]
﻿think the readers of the EXPONENT cannot fail
to be pleased with, and appreciate the story, and
admire the author's style of telling it.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
Weber Stake will be held in the Ogden Taber-
nacle, on Friday, the 7th inst., meeting com-
mencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. The Y. L. M.
I. A. will hold their Conference on the follow-
ing Saturday, at the same place and same hours.
It is expected Sister E. R. S. Smith and Zina D.
H. Young will be present.

	WE recieve, by courtesy of some friend, a
copy of a "Swiss Woman's Paper," published in
the interests of the women of that country. It
is printed in German, though some parts of it
are in the Zurich dialect. It contains a contin-
ued story, poetry, and miscellaneous articles of
various kinds. The paper is published every
Sunday, and edited by Mrs. Eliza Honnegar, St.
Gallen.

	MRS ANNIE WELLS CANNON, formally con-
nected with the office of the EXPONENT, and
whose departure for Europe with the mission-
aries on the 16th of October was announced in
our columms, arrived in Bern, Switzerland on
the 5th of November in good health and spirits
after a very pleasant, though rather fatiguing
journey across land and sea. At Bern she met
her husband, Elder John Q. Cannon, now Presi-
dent of the Swiss and German mission, after
having been separated from him for two years
and three months. We are anxiously waiting
for a descriptive letter of her travels, etc. for
publication.

	THE Ladies Conference of Salt Lake Stake
will convene in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Friday and Saturday, Dec. 14th and 15th;
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. each day. It
is hoped there will be a general attendance of
the sisters from the several branches in the
Stake. The Relief Society will occupy the day
on Friday, holding two sessions. The Primary
will assemble on Saturday morning. Children
from the several wards are invited. The Y. L.
M. I. A. will occupy the afternoon on Saturday.
A full and prompt attendance is earnestly de-
sired.

	A MEETING was held in the 2nd Ward of this
city, October 28th, ult., to reorganize the Primary
Association of that ward, Mrs. Sarah Wheeler,
President of the Relief Society, presided. Sis-
ters E. R. S. Smith, E. B. Wells and E. C.
Clawson were present by invitation. Sister E
R. S. Smith officiated in organizing. Bishop
Peterson and his counselor, James Leach, were
present and approved the proceedings. Officers
as follows: President, Mrs. Phebe C. Young;
Connselors, Johanna Olsen and Emily Hart;
Secretary, Hannah Olsen; Assistant Secretary.
Master Seymour Young; Treasurer, Pauline
Olsen. Remarks suitable to the occasion were
made by the visiting sisters, also Sisters
Wheeler and Young, and by Bishop Peterson.

	THE Juvenile Instructor Office have just is-
sued a new publication, "Lydia Knight's His-
tory." The first book of a series to be published,
entitled, "The Noble Women's Lives Series."
Price 25 cts. For sale at the Juvenile instruc-
tor Office, Salt Lake City. The author is
"Homespun," whose articles often appear in
our columns. It is a little different in the style from
such books generally, and well calculated to
please, as well as edify and instruct the reader.
The most minute details are strictly true, and
this ought to recommend it to the Latter-day
Saints. We are gratified that Homespun has
made this effort to do good, and cannot help con-
trasting her busy literary life, and many domes-
tic cares, with some of our sisters who think
when they marry and have one baby that they


can find no time for improvement, not even to
read. Sister Knight's history is similar to that
of hundreds of other upright, honorable women
whose persecutions and hardships, whose faith
and integrity to the Gospel of Christ has been
unflinching through evil report as well as good.
It is well for our young people to become ac-
quainted with the lives of those who have
helped in the beginning of the Church, who
have been among the early workers for Zion and
whom no accumulation of trials or difficulties
could cause to waver or turn away. There is
much rich material for history, for poetry and
for the drama among this people, and it is the
children of the Latter-day Saints who should
take up these facts and weave them into readable,
creditable prose and poetry, that will enrich the
literature of Zion. Homespun has begun a
good work and may she be able to accomplish
much in this direction, that will make her a
name worthy to be handed down to posterity as
a litterateur.

	THE Unity Club and Ways and Means Com-
mittee are busy preparing for the BAZAR for the
benefit of the Deseret Hospital fund, which will
open in the Social Hall on the 13th inst. It is
likely to be quite a large affair, as the Relief So-
ciety and Y. L. M. I. A. in the city, and also
in the country even, are invited to send in dona-
tions of whatever they like to give to this benev-
olent purpose. The Unity Club has been most
liberal in the past, and has aided the institu-
tion very much by the efforts of its members,
and as the winter is coming on it is an oppor-
tune time to help increase the means of blessing
the sick and afflicted. It is hoped, by those
whose labors have been unceasing in establish-
ing the Hospital, that the associations will re-
spond willingly and liberally to the call, both
the Relief Society and the Y. L. M. I. A. It
has been an immense undertaking and is still
in view of the fact of only a small proportion
being able to pay the full amount for the treat-
ment received. Then the officers labor under
another very serious difficulty, which is, that
they are renting the building, which is unavoid-
able on their part, and the rent alone amounts
to $720. a year, at the rate of $60, per month,
with other incidental expenses on the premises,
in addition to furnishing the house, keeping the
domestic and medical departments supplied with
every necessary for the use of patients and pay-
ing for help. It is quite a common occurrance
in other cities and towns for ladies to get up
bazars, fairs, theatres and entertainments for
thee benevolent purposes, and as Latter-day
Saints we should certainly be wide awake to
take care of those who need attention, kindness
and charity. The BAZAR will be arranged at-
tractively, and as this is just the season before
Christmas when people's hearts grow very ten-
der as the anniversary of time approaches when
"Peace and good will to all men" was declared
upon the earth, there is very little doubt of its
being a financial success.


