TO M.C.S.

Last but not least, unfailing, faithful friend,
	My heart sends forth its gifts of love to thee,
In language where the poet's sweet voice ascends,
The present joins, and with the future blends
	In choral song, a soul-felt harmony.

Well, listen, first unto the voice that sings
	Of the far years that form our mutual past;
While thoughts fair fingers fondly touch the strings,
And memory flies to fold her shadowy wings
	Over a realm whose treasures always last.

Forever last! for though estrangement's gloom
	Too often falls o'er friends we once have known,
Joys they have shared can never cease to bloom,
Searched for, and set, like flowers above a tomb,
	The troubled spirit calls them still its own.

I well remember, when a little child,
	Of wandering by a group of household graves,
The one fair spot, amid a forest wild,
Where blossoms bright, and rare, pale roses smiled
	Up to the boughs that bent like sylvan shades.

While leaning low to read the records there,
	A lady came and smiled, and whispered, "See!
This is my flower garden; full and fair
The buds expand and bloom above despair,
	The buried here were friends to you and me."

And so through life, amid the dearth and doom
	Of severed friendship, I have seemed to see
Those tender flowers upon the sunlit tomb,
And in my heart these words have since found room,
	"The buried here was once a friend to me."

But the voice sings, and bids us list again
	To the dear, tender tone that trembled up
Till the calm present joins to lead the strain
While spirit voices swell the sweet refrain,
	We drink delicious drops from memory's cup.

And gazing down into its tranquil deeps,
	A broken fountain faintly comes to view;
O'er its hushed source a heavy shadow sleeps,
And wearied hope amid the ruin weeps
	Great drops that gem the trampled flowers like dew.

It matters not by what rude hands, or when,
	The full, fresh font was shattered, but it seems
Song and bloom and beauty perished then,
That its dim waves will never flow again
	Beyond the barrier of broken dreams.

The picture grows, and lo, with laughing sound,
	Forth from its mossy vine-wreathed rock a rill
Leaps to the light, and the low hills around
Echo the songs that ceaselessly resound
	From the full waves that dance or dream at will.

Where'er it flows a fragrance fills the air;
	The daisy sleeps beneath the lily's shade;
Sweet song birds flit and flutter everywhere,
But whether bending bowers or ruins bare
	It wanders by, its song is never stayed.

Lovingly lingering where the summer lies
	Catching a ray from every sunbeam passed;
Touched by the tints that fill the far off skies,
Along its course the sparkling current hies,
	And near the silent fountain flows at last.

Leads gently by, and bubbling o'er the brim
	Fills the lone font and softly sweeps away;
Lends its own light unto the wavelets dim,
And leaping through the shadows gray and grim
	Fills all the air with grateful glittering spray.

Taught by the tide, the wakeued stream once more
	Wells forth to join the rapturous, ringing trill;
The shattered shrine resistless rises o'er,
And where dead flowers and silence slept before,
	Together glide the fountain and the rill.

Fearless and free where falsehood lurks in yain, 
	Through storm and shine the blended waters run;
Some mournful measures mingling in the strain,
Keeping their course along life's lessening plain
	To that far sea beyond the settling sun.

Even thus has Maggie's life flowed into mine;
	Thus undivided have our days sped on;
May every year some tendril new entwine,
Some sweet note rise, some soul gem softly shine
	To light the hours that wait the lingering dawn.

[Column 2]

The song is hushed—the touched chords tremble yet—
	The pen is stayed--but still the picture lives;
We list the dying sound with sweet regret;
But on the scene fair faith her seal has set,
	And friendship's hand the gift to Maggie gives.

	B.M.R.
March 13, 1875.


[Column 1]
