PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

(Continued.)
	"During the early period of the life of my
son Joseph I was engaged in teaching a private
school in the old schoolhouse built by Presi-
dent Young, in which, for many years, ward
meetings were held in that locality, also fast
meetings, where the children were blest after
the pattern of the Savior, and according to the
order of the Church of Jesus Chaist of Latter-
day Saints. There, on one occasion, Joseph
was blest by President Brigham Young, and
great things were promised him, among which
it was said that he should supersede his father
in holding the keys of the priesthood upon
the earth. I was very grateful for the bless-
ings and promises made to him by the one
holding the highest authority given to man
upon the earth, and yet it created in me a feel-
ing of greater humility as well as an ardent
desire to dedicate him more fully to the divine
work to be accomplished in this generation. L
felt the need of the Holy Spirit to assist me in
training him up in the nurture and admonition
of the lord."
	"Zion was growing and increasing, people
were getting more comfortable homes, and the
prosperity of the Saints was gradually becom-
ing apparent. From a barren and desolate
land villages and towns, farms and mills sprang
up by dint of the hard labor and energies of
the people, aided and blest by the Almighty.
My husband's wives were all made quite com-
fortable for those days, although now such
surroundings would seem quite old-fashioned
and countrified. We had to card, spin and color
our yarn, and weave, and the dresses made by
our own hands were more highly appreciated
by us then, than the silks and velvets some of
our young mothers are able to buy now. We
knew the worth of these things, for our own
hands had made them. We made our own soap,
we made our own molasses for sweetening, from
beets and sugar cane; we made our own candles,
and lived mostly by means of home made
articles. All this was a rich experience, and
taught us how to feel for each other, and to ap-
preciate every effort for advancement in the di-
rection of temporal progress. In those early
times in the valley the Saints were blest with
great faith, and there was very little sickness,
the gifts of the Gospel were enjoyed to a great
degree, the people were humble, and the pride
of the world was not so prevalent as it is to-
day."
	The next event of importance which oc-
curred in the life of Sister Presendia happened
on the 15th of November, 1853. She was
helping her son Oliver to move a lye leach
and was walking backwards and hit her heels
against a log and fell breaking her left arm.
The elbow turned downwards breaking the
ligaments of the wrist. In her own words,
"it was a terrible smash." She says, "I got up
by help of my knees and held my arm with
my right hand, straitened the arm and fixed
the bone so as to make it look natural and sent
for Brother Kimball. He said it looked to be
all right and he did not believe it could have
been broken, so sent for Dr. Ezra Williams
who lived just across the street, by this time
the arm was so painful I could hold it myself no
longer, and Sister Williams, the Doctor's
mother, held my hand for me. Dr. Williams
was not a surgeon and was unable to deter-
mine whether the arm was broken or not. Ac-
cordingly Dr. France was sent for, he under-
stood the human organism thoroughly and
knew directly what was dislocated and how to
dress the arm. Knowledge is power in such
extremities as this. I then learned my arm
was broken by the sense of feeling when the

[Column 2]

good doctor attempted to put it in its proper
place and bind it up. I was living at that
time where the old church blacksmith's shop
now is, in a small adobie house. Unfortunate-
ly for me fourteen months afterwards I fell on
the ice and broke it again, which was as a natur-
al consequence more severe and more trouble-
some than the first break. In those days we
did all our own spinning, coloring and weav-
ing. I had an English sister staying with me
by the name of Parsons to assist me as I was
unable to use my arm for some time. Sister
Parsons was a very good woman, very capable
and lady-like, but though she did her very
best, no one can do everything, and my sewing
was greatly behind on account of my having
had these accidents. Sister Mercy R. Thomp-
son, dear, kind-hearted soul, understanding my
circumstances made a surprise party and a
sewing bee all in one, and thus a few good sis-
ters helped each other and made up the child-
ren's clothing. Such kindness I shall never
forget. These were the times of scarcity, and
the Spring of 1856 was the time of the grass-
hopper famine, when those who had something
laid by lived on half rations, but many of the
Saints had no provisions at all and those who
were partly supplied, divided their scant store
with those more destitute than themselves. I
felt so keenly the sufferings of the people in
this time of scarcity that although I only re-
ceived half rations in common with the rest
of Bro. Kimball's family, yet I asked the Lord
in prayer to take away my appetite and give
me strength to keep up without it, so that I
might give my rations to the poor children who
had nothing. Strange as it may seem the
Lord heard and answered my prayers. I was
enabled to keep up my usual strength with
scarce any food at all, and the desire of my
heart was granted me that I might impart my
share to those who had none. In that dread-
ful time many were the scenes of distress piti-
ful to relate, and some were not able to endure
this severe test of their faith and apostatized
from the Church and went away. Some lived
on nothing but roots and greens for weeks to-
gether. Verily it was a time of trial that
pierced men's souls; to hear one's children cry-
ing for bread without a morsel to give is some-
thing that even strong men shrink from, and
the tender hearts of mothers in times like these
are torn with anguish."
	"In the summer of 1857 it was arranged
there should be a general celebration of the
24th of July, Pioneer Day as it is called, in
the tops of the mountains, at the head waters
of Big Cottonwood. Quite elaborate prepara-
tions were made and hundreds of the people
gathered there the day previous. Brigham
Young, then Governor of Utah, Heber C.
Kimball, Daniel H. Wells, George A. Smith,
and in fact all the leading men of the Church
went up to take part in the exercises and par-
ticipate in the enjoyments of the festive occa-
sion. They took with them their wives and
children, and many others joined the company,
for it was the people's holiday, and it was a
season of rejoicing for there had been a plenti-
ful harvest the year before after the famine,
and a day of prosperity seemed to have dawned
upon the saints."
	"Bro. Kimball had invited me to go up with
him, and Mother Whitney was with us. The
roads were steep and I walked so much going
up the mountain that I had chills and fever
that night. Mother Whitney administered
comfort to me and blessing and I was healed.
It was a splendid time of recreation, and vari-
ous pastimes and amusements were indulged
in, dancing, singing, orations, and O, how
grand the cannons sounded resounding from
peak to peak on these high mountain tops.
We were so near to heaven and heavenly be-
ings that every one felt the pure atmosphere
and all were so very happy. In the midst of

[Column 3]

this at what seemed a supreme enjoyment, a
time of liberty and peace, two messengers rode
into camp having just arrived from the plains
with the United States mail, and brought the
tidings of Johnston's army being on the march
for Utah. What a feeling came over the peo-
ple with these tidings. President Young had
only just before said if they will let us alone
for ten years we can save ourselves by the
help of God. The gravest matters of state
were discussed there during the next few hours
and the people returned with sobered counte-
nances and reflecting upon the serious condi-
tion of affairs."
	"The history of the Echo Canyon war is
well known, this was the next particular inci-
dent, it occurred the following fall and winter.
My son Oliver was one of the number who
went out with that expedition under Gen.
Wells, and many were the hardships endured
by those brave men. Their clothing was poor
and many suffered much with the cold on ac-
count of that. Oliver had his share of the
bitter experiences of that time and came home
when he was relieved from duty destitute and
worn out with fatigue."
	Following this was "the move," which trans-
pired in the spring of 1858.
	This wholesale moving was a time of
experiences, the people were comparatively
poor, especially in clothing and what is known
as family groceries, and any sort of delicacy or
luxury was rare, and was always saved for the
sick among us. President Kimball moved his
family south a few at a time, as did all those
who had large families, for whatever the world
may think of the advantages men enjoy in
having large families, there is certainly a heavy
responsibility resting upon them, especially
when there is any move to be made involving
a change of place or residence. Large bodies
move slowly, it is said, and that is why all
these large families could not move south at
the same time. Sister Presendia at this time
had her two boys, Oliver who was then a grown
young man and expected to do a man's work
in the family, and her little son Joseph, just
at a most interesting age.
	"It had been determined to leave our lovely
city to the army and all go farther south. Bro.
Kimball fitted up some teams and started a
part of his numerous family, I being one of
the number to make the first move to leave
our homes, the other wives were Anna Gheen
Kimball and Ellen Saunders Kimball, with
all our children. My son Oliver had been
married just before to Mary Ann Lack. Our
directions were to go as far as Springville and
remain there in care of Bishop Aaron Johnson.
We were most kindly received by him and his
family and well provided for. We left Salt
Lake City and our pleasant homes so endeared
to us because of our previous privations and
wanderings, on the last day of March, 1858.
We had no expectation of returning; we made
the sacrifice fully counting the cost. It was
no new thing for the Latter-day Saints, and
they seemed to accept it with the same spirit
of serenity and resignation, that has ever and
always characterized their movements in times
of the severest trial. While I was in Spring-
ville I was always busy, every one had to work,
it was an absolute necessity. I had left all, my
home, my furniture, my household appurte-
nances, such little things as are the ornaments
of home, it was very little we could take with
us, only the barest necessities, but all I wished
particularly for was my bedstead, lying on the
floor again was so hard after our long and
tedious journeys, it was annoying to be obliged
to submit to it again, and all on account of 
those who had already previously driven us in-
to the wilderness and been the cause of all
our hardships. Still there was no hardness in
our hearts, only pity for the condition in which
we were so unexpectedly placed.


