DISFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN.

	Ere Congress assembled the various methods
to put down "Mormonism" were being aired
through the newspapers. Once it seemed as if
women had no part or lot in the matter, but
since the ballot was given to the women of
Utah, they have become an important factor
in the question that so astonishes, perplexes
and vexes the nation. Cassidy, of Nevada,
wants the women of Utah disfranchised. That
is not new, he wanted it last year. It is not
very chivalrous to say the least, to take any
civil rights from women, who, according to the
general acceptation of the situation, have so few
privileges of any sort. It proves, however, that
having the franchise does give women power,
that they are a strength even in their "weak-
ness." "Mormon" women vote for the men
whom they have known and proven, and this
is the proof Cassidy gives us, that they do not
know how to vote. If these same women would
cast the ballot for the men who come here and
call them fools, ignorant dupes, and their child-
ren a name one does not like to soil the paper
with, then, I suppose, they would be counted
brave and intelligent, and they might retain
the franchise with all propriety, because it
would help the "Liberals" to place and power,
	The women of Utah have for nearly thirteen
years gone to the polls and voted as their best
judgment dictated, and no man or woman can,
truthfully say any evil has grown out of it. On
the contrary, we affirm women have become
more cultivated in the public weal, and have
sought and imparted to each other information on
general questions pertaining to rights, govern-
ment, laws and their enforcement. When
women know more of these matters it will be
better for any country. The children of wise
mothers are always an improvement upon those
of ignorant ones, and the wife who can talk in-
telligently with her husband on politics, may
keep him at home occasionally, whereas, other-
wise, he would seek the companionship of some
man or set of men, in order to discuss the sub-
ject.
	As for men loving women more who know
very little, who are submissive and inferior, who
have no positive opinions of their own, why
they are certainly inferior men, and it is not
that class of men that strong minded women
would choose for husbands, so they need give
themselves no uneasiness on the subject at all.
These men will not seek such women for mar-
riage, and such ladies would refuse them if
they should. But marrying will go on just the
same, and the clever women will wait until
some great souled, brave hearted man does ask
them. And pending that event go on with
some noble employment, "doing good as she hath


[Column 2]
opportunity." But this is not the subject under
contemplation, it is Cassidy, of Nevada, on the
disfranchisement of "Mormon" women. What
good will this disfranchisement do? It will not
solve the "Mormon" problem at all, nor will it
effect the majority vote, only there will be few-
er votes to count, which will make the present
authority less trouble. Mormon boys are attain-
ing their majority daily, and will vote just as
they please, and there will always be enough of
them to outvote the opposite party, no matter
how it multiplies, rest assured of that fact.
Therefore, Mr. Cassidy might as well save his
credit, and redeem himself as far as possible
from the disrepute he incurred last year by try-
ing to moot this same offensive question, and
let "Mormon" women go on voting as it pleases
them, and it will not affect his politics in the
least. It is strange he should want to meddle
with this affair at all, as there is plenty of mate-
rial for him to work upon in his own state with-
out coming over into Utah, and moreover med-
dling with the affairs of women, which is never
a wise thing to do in any case; much less when
it comes to such a general matter as this one, of
the right to vote. "Mormon women are ex-
ceedingly ambitious; they not only want to vote
but to have their rights extended to holding
office—we trust this will not wound the sensi-
tive feelings of Mr. Cassidy. So far from relin-
quishing their own right to vote so honorably
obtained, and so nobly maintained, they are all
the time working in the interests of equal po-
litical rights for all women; and furthermore,
have interceded with the Legislature to so
revise the Statutes of Utah as to make women
eligible to office. Vex not thyself Mr. Cassidy,
for it may be that women can never get a ma-
jority of votes to elect them to any office, should
they be fortunate enough to receive a nomina-
tion, and even that is very uncertain. Certain-
ly not if men were as narrow-minded as the
honorable Senator from Nevada. Is it an easy
matter to take away this boon once granted
and exercised? One would not think so judging
from the records of nations and pepoles; how-
ever, "Mormons" are not to be dealt with in the
same manner as other folks. There is no excuse
for repealing this law except that "voting is not
good for women." There is a trite saying some-
where extant, that, "What is sauce for the
goose is sauce for the gander," and vice versa, if
voting is good for the gander it must be for the
geese necessarily, but lest we should incur the
displeasure of the author of the "Geese of Gan-
derica," perhaps it would be better to
choose some other term. Remember,
Mr. Cassidy, the Edmund's Bill disfran-
chised both men and women who had ever
obeyed the celestial law—and after doing all
that, one would think there would be a boun-
dary to the extent of disfranchisement. Now
no one goes to the polls who is, or ever was in
the practice of plural marriage. This ought to
satisfy all people who clamor so about the deg-
radation of that paculiar principle. Now,
whether our young people will throw away
their political rights, esteeming them as nought,
for the higher law, remains to be proven.
Nevertheless, there will always be a majority to
keep the ship Zion balanced. Wait and see. It
is possible that the generation born in this
holy order, and heirs to the Priesthood are to
make another epoch in the history of the
Church.


[Column 1]
