SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH		-	-	JULY, 1911


[Column 1]
		THE FORTIETH VOLUME.
	It is very rare that a woman’s paper has
survived the changes that transpire in news-
paper or journalistic life for the number of
years this little periodical has held its place
among the women of this Western land.
To tell its complete history would be a long
story; what it has done and what recorded
during these years has been quite remark-
able. Not now because it is not so strange
a thing, but thirty-nine years ago times
here were very different, and indeed in the
United States there were very few women’s
papers.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston is the
oldest paper, founded by Lucy Stone, now in
its forty-second volume, having been issued
first in 1869. It has sometimes had a hard
struggle, yet it has always been a very pop-
ular paper with suffrage people, and those
of advanced ideas along the lines of pro-
gress. It has, however, had occasional gifts
of money, some large sums from those who
were anxious to help forward a movement
for the betterment of humanity. The only
other paper of the kind that has survived
so long was the Englishwomen’s Review,
that lived for half a century, and certainly
was one of the best periodicals of its time.
	The New North West, quite a popular
woman’s paper founded in Portland, Ore-
gon in 1869 by Abagail Scott, Dunniway,
was discontinued for lack of support, a
number of years ago.
	The Ballot Box of former days published
a few years in Toledo, Ohio, and afterwards
in Syracuse, New York, by Matilda Joslyn
Gage, one of the finest and best of that day.
	The Woman’s Tribune later in Washing-
ton, D. C.,, published and edited by Clara
B. Colby, a woman of untold energy and
enterprise the organ for some years of the
National Woman’s Suffrage Association, as
the Woman’s Journal was for years of the
American Woman’s Suffrage Association;
there was one earlier paper, The Golden
Era, published in San Francisco, started
about the same time, perhaps a little later,
than the New North West, by Mrs. A. J.
Boyer whose nom de Phune was Dora Dart-
moor, that was discontinued long years ago
now, but it was very popular for a time
and prosperous. It was sort of light read-
ing, and did not advocate any such objec-
tionable principles as Woman Suffrage or
Dress Reform, but this and a dozen other
wornen’s pepers were comparatively short-
lived, notwithstanding their popularity.
	The Woman’s Exponent was not likely to

[Column 2]
be very popular with the people outside the
Latter-day Saints, because it has always
stood for “Mormon” doctrine from the very
first issue, and therefore its supporters and
patrons have been almost entirely of our
own faith. Yet it has gained some friends
outside both here at home, and abroad in
other countries.
	It has been very useful among our own
people especially as an organ of the Re-
lief Society, which is one of the most bene-
ficial societies in the world; and in its vol-
umes there is much history contained, which
is reliable for reference for future histor-
ians, not only concerning woman’s work,
industrial and educational, but the lives of
the women, who figured conspicuously in the
days of the Prophet Joseph and his succes-
sor, Brigham Young, and who in connec-
tion with these and other great men, notably
Heber C. Kimball, Parley P. and Orson
Pratt, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Or-
son Hyde and others whose names stand
significant in Church history. These women
helped to lay the foundations of the great
latter-day work.
	Home industry too has been fostered and
encouraged by women, and President Brig-
ham Young appreciated the assistance of our
sisters in many undertakings both of enter-
prise and reform, that he established and
many of these projects, and schemes, are
written up in the volumes of the Woman’s
Exponent and will furnish good material for
future historians who will, it is ardently
hoped, remember the women of Zion when
compiling the history of this Western land.
	There has been no great work during
these years commenced by women that has
not been considered and helped by this lit-
tle paper.
	The grain movement established by Brig-
ham Young was planned and encouraged by
the Woman’s Exponent under his specific di-
rection and counsel, and it most certainly
should be sustained by the women of these
mountain vales and not only continue to aid
and encourage the work of women, but be-
come essential in all the movements for the
uplifting of women in all the departments of
home-culture and development, and in the
spiritual strengthening of the inner life, and
the bringing to pass greater confidence and
excellence in the graces of character, and
nobility of soul, an intense sympathy with
human life that should characterize the
Saints of God and help them to attain that
breadth of benevolence and charity, that is
more than compensation for the lack of
worldly wealth. This is the aim and pur-
pose of the Gospel to create an atmosphere
of strength, that will tend to the knowledge
of the Everlasting Truth, that will reveal
itself in the personality of the Latter-day
Saints, that all those who come into their
presence may feel and realize.
	As a people we should sustain our own
publications, not only as a duty but from
principle as well; we ought to have superior
composition and it cannot be reached with-
out an effort. Every great good to which
this people has attained in the past, has re-
quired individual effort and persistence in
the direction sought. Now that the Wom-
an’s Exponent is just entering its fortieth
year it is a good time to give a little encour-
agement and patronage. Let the sisters try
what can be done in the several stakes to
increase the number who will take it and
pay in advance, and give it support by voice

[Column 3]
and by soliciting among those who should
be its patrons, if only for the history of the
Relief Society itself, and the sketches of the
women who have carried this benevolent
work forward; and when the young women
who are attaining such superior educations
want to write books and delineate character,
they will have a fountain of material in the
lives of the veterans of Mormonism, who
crossed the Mississippi river in the dead of
winter on the ice, and those who while camp-
ing on the banks of the river after being
driven out by the mob were fed by the quails,
they and their children will be as wonderful
in history and story and song, as the hero-
ines of Greece and Rome that the poets por-
tray in verse and song.
	There is no lack of nobility and heroism
among Mormon women, there may be per-
haps of grace and polish of manner, but the
daughters who write the history of these
prophetesses who went among the sick and
suffering and toiled for humanity’s sake, and
not for dollars and cents, but in the humil-
ity and meekness of saints in very deed,
should have their praises sung by those, who
now reap the benefits bequeathed to them by
these grand and noble women, whose sim-
ple acts of charity and love shed around
them such tenderness, that it remains with
us who live today and who knew them
seems as a holy consecration, that has en-
kindled in our hearts a desire to go forward
and do likewise.


