Sing their praises, do not smother,
	Sacred strains that dwell within,
Honor father, honor mother,
	Pioneer heroes all akin.
					—V. Clayton McCune.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL SUFFRAGE ALLI-
			ANCE.
	At the International Suffrage Alliance
held recently in Stockholm, twenty-six
countries were represented by delegations,
two of these countries being admitted to the
Alliance during the Congress.
	Stockholm is one of the most beautiful
cities in the world, and is said to be a com-
bination of Edinburgh and Venice trans-
figured by the national genius of Sweden.
	Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, a woman
known here in America and abroad as one of
the very best women speakers, presided at
this great Congress of the women of the
world.
	The elaborate decorations in the national
colors, blue and yellow were very effective, 
and when worn by pretty girls, who were
pages going continually through the audi-
ence with notes, etc., were like moving pic-
tures in the scene of color.
	The first striking feature was the presen-
tation of the gavel of the convention, sent
by the newly enfranchised state of Wash-
ington and presented by Miss Janet Rich-
ards of Washington, D. C. in a very telling
speech. Mrs. Catt, however, used the heavy
gavel given her at the farewell luncheon in
New York by the Woman Suffrage Party,
for really this large Congress of women
from all nationalities needed much use of
the chairman’s gavel to keep them in order.
	One of the most dramatic moments of
the Congress was the presentation of the
International banner and flag by Anna Kle-
man, President of the Stockholm W. S. A.
the banner was the gift of a pioneer suffra-
gist, Froken Latten Van Kramer. The
banner itself was superb, white and gold,
and planted on the stage by three students
in white, wearing the national colors over
their shoulders; the woman’s choir rose and
standing behind the banner sang Alfren’s
setting of Ossian-Nilsson’s suffrage song.
The audience rose as the dramatic music be-
gan, and the banners of the different na-
tions were raised and lowered where they
hung round the gallery.
	The President herself, Mrs. Catt, pre-
sents a striking appearance upon the plat-
form, and her entrance was saluted with
waving flags and ringing applause, and the
audience refused to be seated until repeated-
ly reminded by the gavel; and the homage
paid Mrs. Catt throughout the Congress
was very helpful in relieving her of the em-
barrassment of the strain of the situation.
	Mrs. Catt makes a most magnificent ap-
pearance on the platform.
	The opening address by the International
President was something of an epic review
of the progress of the movement for suf-
frage all over the world, since the last Con-
gress. Mrs. Catt is brilliant and original,
and has a humorous style that pleases the
masses, and her speech was full of thrilling
incidents that awaken, the most placid na-
tures. The effect of her style is beyond de-
scription, one must see and hear her to ap-
preciate the force and strength of her con-
vincing eloquence.

[Column 2]
	At a public meeting in the Royal Opera,
Tuesday night, June 13, 1911, the speakers
of Finland, Germany, Sweden, Great Brit-
ain, Hungary and the United States fol-
lowed one another; it was wonderful. Noth-
ing like it has ever been heard before. Miss
Furnhjium was first, and spoke with dig-
nity, vigor arid authority. Dr. Augspurg
typically German with a rich humanity, arid
deal fervor mingling with it a kind of folk-
lore humor.
	Selma Lagerlof spoke so feelingly that
the Swedish women and then the men began
to weep, it was very affecting. Mrs. Snow-
den was at her best in this meeting, she
spoke with great magnetic power, she is very
incisive, and launches her words at her audi-
ence.
	Miss Rosika Schuimmer of Hungary is
dark, fine and electric and is a sort of pan-
tominist. Miss Shaw was last on the pro-
gram and received an ovation at the close.
	Mrs. Catt dismissed the meeting in a most
inimitable, graceful style, and said that of all
the speakers at the Congress there was but
one that made her need her handkerchief,
and that was Miss Tomova of Bohemia;
it was not what she said but the intense feel-
ing in a human voice, and the splendor of 
what she expressed like unto music that was
indescribably affecting.
	The most enlivening feature of the meet-
ing was the announcement by Colonel Mans-
field of Holland that the suggestion of the
International President that the delegates of
the different Men’s Leagues might put in
good time by forming a Men’s League in
Sweden had been carried into effect and
that furthermore an International Men’s
League had also been formed consisting of
America, England, Germany, Hungary,
Sweden and Holland. Shouts of “Bravo”
and prolonged applause greeted this an-
nouncement, and it was some time before the
business could be resumed.
	The matter of dress necessarily comes in
when women assemble from many countries,
and this Congress was no exception. It is
stated “the Swedish were most imposing in
garments of anybody in the Congress.” “Not
Paris itself surpasses Stockholm in the fash-
onable appearance of its women.”
	“One timid looking little dame from East-
ern Europe appeared the first day in a har-
em skirt, showing green lace stockings and
white slippers. The length of the perspec-
tive was greater than the delegates ap-
proved, and thereafter, “she wore peniten-
tial and shapeless black.”
	English women wore tailor-made suits.
The South Africans wore business-like suits.
The Australians halted between home or
office. The Hungarians wore what a New
York woman described as “bed-gowns.”
	The French women wore black and white,
so did the Russians. Germans were rich in 
taste, all except Miss Schermacher, who
wore a shirt-waist. Dr. Augspurg wore a
plum colored satin, trimmed with fringe,
made loose.
	The majority struggled to conform to
the hobble skirts as far as they could recon-


[Column 1]
cile it with their consciences, and that was
not too far. Some wore jewelry and crimped
their hair, but there was not much frivolity.
	At dress occasions, the suffragists made
a grand showing; and one woman won-
dered, “what the sainted souls of the
Bloomer period would have thought of their
degenerate daughters in reception gowns.”
However, taken as a whole, those groups
of women from all nations showed a high
general type in dress and manner.
	The most of the Congress seems to have
been very satisfactory, weather was fine, and
meetings successful and brilliant dinners.
	The Swedish custom of starting the
speeches after the first course, and sprink-
ling them between courses is a very excel-
lent one to follow, giving more time to en-
tertainment afterwards.
	Saturday evening, June 17, 1911, the dele-
gates were entertained by the Swedish W.
S. A. at Saltsjohaden, a summer resort near
Stockholm, very delightfully situated on the
Baltic sea. The party took a ferry and train
to reach the restaurant, and returned on a
large boat with a searchlight thrown on
the surrounding beautiful scenery.
	After dinner at the restaurant the guests
went into the garden and the Vice Presi-
dent spoke concerning Mrs. Catt praising
her methods and so on, others followed in
the same way, Mr. Ernest Beckman, M. P.
(whose wife is an American and who enter-
tained the delegates at supper in their
charming home	*	*	on Sunday, June
11, 1911). Mme. Brunschwiez of France
and Fran Linderman of Germany, all these
were profuse in their eulogies of Mrs. Catt.
	Miss Janet Richards of Washington D. C.
paid a pretty tribute to the Swedish flag,
likening it to the blue of the skies and the
golden sunshine, (blue and yellow), which
greeted the delegates so warmly.
	On Wednesday, June 4th, 1911, the
American minister and his wife, Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Graves, gave a luncheon to
the American delegates, fraternal delegates
and alternates, and invited the members of
the recently formed American Woman’s
Club in Stockholm to meet them after the
luncheon. There were many social func-
tions, and enjoyable music, dancing, peas-
ant dances, songs and speeches, almost in-
numerable.
	The delegates were invited to a beautiful
villa to see Mr. Thier’s collection of pictures,
and in the evening to a park Skansen where
there were out-door speeches from natural
platforms (huge rocks), and dances by
Swedish peasants in costume.
	Invitations to dinners and evening parties,
boat-riding and pleasure excursions were
numerous, and in variety are more enter-
taining to Americans than scenes and places
in one’s own land. Many of the incidents
connected with this International Alliance
Congress are deeply interesting, and some
even pathetic; for instance, one writer says,
“It is a strange sensation to sit on a box
overlooking a huge audience, sitting silent
as the dead, while one sad voice speaks out
into the silence words absolutely without
meaning to you; then to see all over that
audience people moved to tears! Truly it
was as though we watched a miracle, re-
specting, uncomprehending, wondering.
	Dr. Augspurg, the German President and
leader, is spoken of by one of the writers
who took notes of the Congress: 
	“She is sturdy of figure, strong of fea-

[Column 2]
ture, with close-cropped curling hair and
loose hanging robes of black or white.
She always appears like some monk of old,
austere, commanding, far-visioned. One can
picture her thundering words of wrath, ex-
horting to reform, and picturing dreams and
visions.”
	Rev. Anna Shaw, the same writer says,
spoke with wit compelling cleverness and
moving eloquence, and spoke magnificently
of the wonderful binding together of the
world’s womanhood in this International
Alliance, saying she considered it a greater
force for world’s peace than the finest of
International Hague Conferences ever held.
	It is almost impossible to select from the
material the Woman’s Journal contains what
will be the very best to give to our home
readers.
	Altogether the International Alliance
Congress seems to have taken that wonder-
ful city of Stockholm, if not the kingdom
of Sweden by storm.
	In the report of discussions in the meet-
ings of the International Alliance Congress,
we note many excellent points have been
brought out that will be helpful to all wom-
en who are working for the advancement
and uplifting of humanity, therefore we
hope the entire proceedings will be published
in book form for future use and specific
education along this line of woman’s en-
franchisement.—Extracts.


