THE FULFILLMENT OF PROPHECY.
	We who are living now are seeing won-
ders transpiring almost daily before our very
eyes, and the rapid movements that are be-
ing made in vehicles of all kinds of varieties
not only bring to mind Mother Shipton’s
prophecies, that are so frequently alluded to,
but the thoughtful people, who believe in the
scriptures recall prophetic sayings of the
Prophets of old:
	The modern methods of travel are indeed
astonishing, and it would seem that ere long
one may really fly hither and thither at will,
yet we know nature has not so provided, but
invention and ingenuity have achieved such
marvelous results that one stands amazed,
not knowing what may soon be accomplished
by the wonder-working brain, coupled with
the compelling forces so recently brought
into control by complicated processes of
man’s power over matter. And all these
things that are in a way coming about by
natural skill, and ability of mankind, are in
the fulfillment of the prophecies recorded in
the Scriptures, and have been foretold hun-
dreds of years ago.
	In the earlier days of the Church, when
the Elders were preaching among the peo-


ple, and the Gospel that seems to us who
are so well acquainted with it familiar now,
it was rather startling to hear the “Mor-
mon’’ Elders quoting from Isaiah and Eze-
kiel and Daniel and so on, and some of us
have almost forgotten these first lessons in
the Latter-day work; and we only talk of
the prevailing every-day topics usually; but
now and then the attention is called to
prophecy, and it brings before us the marvel
that has actually taken place before our very
eyes of that which is like magic and yet a
positive reality.
	The Old Testament is replete with pas-
sages significant of events transpiring
around us, and thoughtful people cannot
help now and then calling to mind the sol-
emn significance of some of these remark-
able sayings that have a direct bearing upon
the conditions of the days in which the pres-
ent generation are living.
	For instance we find recorded in the Book
of Nahum the following:
	“The chariots shall rage in the streets, they
shall jostle one against another on the broad
ways; they shall run like lightnings.”
	Could a better description of automobiles
be given than this ancient prophecy recorded
in the Scriptures, more than two thousand
years ago?
	It really ought to be convincing proof to
those who doubt the Old Bible, that there
were prophets taught of the Lord in those
ancient times.
	With the great progress being made in the
present age, what may we not look for in the
way of improvement, even now the people
that are going to and fro make one wonder
at the possibilities of travel and transporta-
tion.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES
	The Anti-Saloon League which did good
work for prohibition did not succeed in clos-
ing the saloons as we hoped to do, and ar-
dently desired, but it has paved the way for
the greater work which is to follow, and to
those who were zealous and worked dili-
gently much credit is due, and certainly the
effect of such a campaign cannot fail to pro-
duce results beneficial to those who took part
and the victory will be achieved sooner or
later for the wave of temperance is in the
air, and will eventually cover this country.
Notwithstanding the opposition is strong
and there are more against it than for it,
and there is money in favor of saloons, yet
the right in any cause is more than dollars
and cents. When there are no more saloons
other crimes will be lessened, as has already
been proven in the state of Kansas; and the
people will be more prosperous, and the
Lord will more abundantly bless the land for
the sake of those who love righteousness
and hate iniquity; and strong drink is a
compelling force in the cause of evil, and
the downfall of innocence and purity, and
the curse of cities and of nations.
	An uncommonly large number of wed-
dings have been solemnized in the Salt Lake
Temple during the month of June this year.
with wedding receptions at home afterwards.
These marriages of our young people are
very gratifying to the parents, and consid-
ering the number of Temples now in Utah
it seems there is no excuse for the young
men and women of the Latter-day Saints
to marry outside the Temple. There is no

[Column 2]
ceremony of marriage more perfect or more
beautiful in all its details than the cere-
mony in the Temples. There is a sacred-
ness there that is not felt outside the Temple.
	With the coming of summer and the real-
ly hot weather most of the women’s clubs
adjourn and many women and children hie
them away to the mountain resorts to rest
and recruit, and enjoy the luxury of cool
shades and refreshing breezes. Our moun-
tain retreats, canyons and vales are most
delightful places in which to escape for a
time from the rush, hurry and hustle of
busy city life, for we really are living in
what seems to Salt Lakers quite a large
modern city, we who have lived here many
years hardly realize its growth, it has been
so gradual, but if one pauses long enough to
consider what has been, and what it today
one can readily feel the upward trend to-
wards busy city life with many prevalent
vices and boisterous noises, that so oppress
one and affect one’s nerves, no wonder those
who can run away to the mountains and
vales, where it is possible to breathe freely
and sleep well, and come back refreshed and
invigorated to withstand the tumult of a
great city full of busy activity, bustle and
confusion. 
	The advertisement in this issue of the
paper of a class in Nursing and Obstetrics
calls to mind the great need there is of the
help of this kind for those who cannot
afford to pay the high prices of professional
nurses who have given years of time to prac-
tical study. Really it is an established fact
that every woman who looks forward to
motherhood should have some knowledge of
the physiology of her own body more than
that which is taught in the school-room.
Therefore we approve of all young women
taking a course of study in nursing. It is
also quite necessary, especially in country
places to have competent midwives, and in-
deed we believe that for all women, women
physicians are best. tI is good that we still
have a few graduated women physicians,
and it is much to be regretted that there are
so few of them. By all means let the Relief
Society encourage our sisters to study ob-
stetrics and pass a medical examination, so
that help can be obtained when needed
among the people. Knowledge is power is
as true now as it ever was, and a knowledge
of one’s own body is of the utmost conse-
quence to every woman, married, or single.


