WOMEN LAWYERS.
	Miss Olive Conger, one of the successful
contestants at the recent bar examination,
was admitted to practice recently before
the Supreme Court of the District of Co-
lumbia at a meeting of the court in general
term. Miss Conger was admitted in ad-
vance of the other contestants because she
desired to leave Washington at once for
Los Angeles, Cal. She will take up the
practice of law in that city. Miss Conger is
an employe in the customs divisions in the
Treasury Department. She became a grad-
uate of the Washington College of Law
last May, and while at the law school took
first prize for work in the moot court and
second prize in point of scholarship. She is
a cousin of former Minister to China Ed-
ward Conger and of former Senator Conger
of Michigan. Before coming to Washington
Miss Conger was a clerk in the Iowa State
Legislature.
	Six more women took the bar examina-
tion, all graduates of the Washington Col-
lege of Law. They will not know their fate
until the fall.
	Women are not admitted to the bar in
Georgia, Virginia and Arkansas.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS. 
	An unusually interesting program is be-
ing prepared for the National Suffrage con-
vention which meets in Louisville, Ky., Oct. 
19 to 25. 
	New York newspapers report that the 
annual election at Larchmont-on-the-Sound
brought out many society women, who voted 
for the various officers and at the same time 
assisted in carrying the appropriation of 
$25,000 for the new village sidewalks. 
	The Woman Suffrage Association of the 
District of Columbia, having learned of the 
introduction of the Bristow bill, conferring 
the right of the ballot on men of the Dis-
trict, has adopted resolutions calling for its
amendment so as to include women, as well 
as men, as its beneficiaries. 
	The address delivered by Mrs. Carrie 
Chapman-Catt at the opening of the Sixth 
Congress of the International Woman Suf-
rage Alliance in Stockholm, is to be trans-
lated into the languages of all the civilized 
lands and given a world-wide distribution. 
Funds to defray the expenses involved were 
voted by acclamation. Mrs. Catt was re-
elected president of the Alliance. 
	Dispatches from Sweden state that the 
International Suffrage convention at Stock-
holm accorded a warm welcome to Rev. 
Anna Howard Shaw, president of the Na-
tional American Suffrage Association, the 
whole assemblage rising at her entrance. 
The Swedish papers speak highly of Dr.
Shaw’s eloquence at a service in the State 
Church, where she occupied the pulpit, the 
first woman to receive this honor. 
	Lord Brassey, at the age of seventy-five, 
has become a convert to the suffrage cause, 
and his accession to the ranks is one of 
considerable importance, for Lord Brassey 
is a peer who commands universal respect, 
who has always enjoyed a reputation for 
sound, common sense and level-headedness, 

[Column 2]
and who has led a very useful life. His 
wife, Lady Brassey, is a sister of Lord Es-
sex. 
	Trinity Church of Seattle, Wash., known 
as very “high church’ ’and conservative, at 
its recent annual church meeting elected a 
woman as alternate delegate to the Diocesan 
Council soon to be held in Tacoma. The 
woman is Mrs. Rowe, wife of Rev. P. T. 
Rowe, the famous Bishop of Alaska. Rev. 
H. H. Gowen is pastor of Trinity. In 
presiding over the meeting he ruled that 
women are eligible, though, as far as is 
known, this is the first time one has been
chosen in the Episcopal church. Mr. Gowen 
expressed a willingness to make Mrs.
Rowe’s election a test case. 
	Hon. Andrew Fisher, Premier of the 
Commonwealth of Australia, when inter-
viewed in London a few days ago, said:
“How any man of advanced views can fail 
to see the justice of the claim the women 
are working for—the power to vote on the 
same terms as men—I cannot understand. 
The only logical position that women can 
take is to demand equal rights with men. I 
am surprised that every labor man cannot 
see that. The participation of women in 
public affairs in Australia has proved a 
benefit to the Commonwealth and to the 
women. It has been an unqualified success.”
	The thirteenth annual commencement of 
Cornell University Medical College was held 
June 14. The graduating class, eight of the 
members of which were young women, 
numbered fifty-five. The first honors were 
carried off by Miss Dudley, of Brooklyn; 
second honors went to Miss Dean, of Mine-
ola; while two other young women were on 
the honor roll of ten. President Schurman 
delivered the address, and, referring to the 
progress that women are making in the 
world, he said: “Women everywhere are 
giving a splendid account of themselves. 
Two women have carried off the highest 
honors here today. Everywhere it is the 
same. The women stand exceptionally high 
in their classes.”


