YOU AND I.
When we walked a-down the hillside,—
Mountain-lilies called before,
And I held within my apron
Mountain-lilies score on score,
Then I scarce could hear you speaking,—
Spring was calling in my ear,
Till you took my hand in parting,—
Then, for aye, I knew you, dear.
When I hid beside the roadway,
Gay you called me “Butterfly,”—
But your face grew solemn—manlike,
When I dared not raise my eye,—
In the Long Ago, beloved,
You and I.

In the great Unseen beyond us,
When we leave this earth, this sky,
Will I know you by your handclasp,
And you by my half-hid eye?
Ah, belov’d, when we meet, Godlike,
What if, dear, we framed those signals
I to know you by your handclasp,
You to know me—"Butterfly,"
By a lid that fluttered, birdlike,
Ere I dared to raise my eye,—
In the great Before, beloved,
You and I?
—Blanche Kendall McKay.


[Column 1]
CHAUTAUQUA ASSEMBLY.
	We are aware that there are a number
of Utah people who are not familiar with
the term we are using, viz., Chautauqua As-
sembly, in explaining it definitely one must
necessarily go into detail—but suffice it to
say it is an institution of great merit and
advantage.
	This year it is coming to abide in Utah
one week or ten days and it will be of great
benefit to those who attend the entire course.
	The Chautauqua is in a way something
like the summer schools, yet far in advance
of any of those schools of which we have
reliable knowledge.
	Considering there is to be a Chautauqua
Assembly of one week and more in Ogden,
it will be well to have some information of
what it is, and how conducted.
	The name is derived from Chautauqua
Lake, seven miles from Lake Erie in the
State of New York, and the water is said to
be "the highest navigable water in the
United States.
	"Among the summer schools having a
general course all are eclipsed by that most
elaborate organization of summer school

[Column 2]
work which is offered by Chautauqua."
	Its origin dates back to 1874, but the Lit-
erary and Scientific Circle was not organ-
ized until 1878, the summer college in 1879
and the correspondence school in 1885."
The Chautauqua so-called comprises a se-
ries of courses designed for general culture
rather than for special training."
	Branch assemblies are held here and there
in different places which follow as nearly
as possible the plan of the General Meet-
ing. The scope of the work has attained re-
markable proportions of comprehensiveness
and utility comprised in groups of twelve
divisions, embracing hundreds of topics.
	Quite a number of great men are to give
lectures at the Chautauqua Assembly in Og-
den, during the week commencing Friday,
July 21, and closing Sunday, July 30.
	The Hon. Wm. Spry, Governor of Utah,
will deliver the address at the opening, and
President Frank M. Driggs will preside.
	Hon. B. H. Roberts will deliver an ad-
dress on Pioneer Day, July 24, entitled His-
torical Events in Utah's History. This will
certainly be a "Red Letter Day."
	Woman's Day will be Wednesday, July
26, and the speech of the occasion will be
by Prof. Howell, "The Age of Action."
Prof. Tyler, "Conformity to Environments."
Mrs. McMahon, President of Utah Federa-
tion of Clubs.
	The one feature of the Assembly that
appeals strongly to the writer is the "Round
Table." When we recall the great men and
women of the past, who figured conspicuous-
ly at the Round Table and whose names are
synonyms for literary and scientific re-
search, discoveries and attainments, and that
those few who have opened up avenues of
thought along new lines of enterprise and
activity and have truly been benefactors to
humanity; lighting the torches that have
been beacons to the race; when we recall
the few who led the way to higher think-
ing, and broader views of enlightenment,
then we include those few, who at the
"Round Table" entertained each other, and as
it were created from the depths of thought,
(sub-conscious) if one may use the term,
and from this nucleus, call it by what name
you will, there came an awakening. Hon-
or be to these great names, philosophers,
statesmen, inventors and men and women of
superlative genius in all the departments
of mentality that led to superior inventions
and skilled labor machinery.
	Much has been done in climbing the lad-
der of learning, but man has not yet reached
the sublime heights, and yet great things
have been done marvelous, and still the
world moves on, and far greater things are
yet to come—inventions for saving time and
labor are helping men and women to cul-
tivate those greater gifts and talents and
make spiritual progress, in higher attain-
ments than have as yet been conceived of
by mortal minds; we are as a people enter-
ing into higher realms of progress and ad-
vancement and even of power to control
agencies unknown to our forefathers, and
the unseen elements and forces that exist,
and are yet to be controlled by the skill and
ingenuity of man.
	The Round Table of Chautauqua Assem-
bly, will undoubtedly be one of the most
fascinating features of the gathering, and so
we who are figuring in the activities of the
present ought to see and hear what will
transpire or take place at the meetings of
scholars and professors of great renown

[Column 3]
from the universities of learning, that have
all the advantages that accrue from great li-
braries and associations with the scholars of
the world.
	Recalling the Round Table brings to mind
the time of King Arthur and his knights
and the days of chivalry and romance, the
deeds of valor and feasting and of trou-
badours, and the seats of honor, and of Sir
Galahad who alone could occupy the
only man who could sit in the Siege Per-
ilous at the "Round Table," because he was
chaste. The Round Table of the Chautau-
gua Assembly will be quite different from
that shown at Winchester, in England, or
that of King Edward III at Windsor some
seventy years later.
	If the coming event the Chautauqua As-
sembly is well advertised personally by men
and women interested in the higher educa-
tion and cultivation of the people of Utah
there is little doubt of its success. And it is
desirable that Utah should have the best of
everything.


