“THE WAYS THEY ARE MANY AND
			WIDE.”
	The ways of life at the present time are
indeed many, and the paths in which some
are walking are very wide, and lead this way
and that, and the craze for the uncertain
ways is leading the young astray, and many
walk therein, and stray far from the paths
of safety, and after all what real joy is
there in pursuing a phantom? No true hap-
piness is gained and the end is sorrow and
lamentation, even if there should be peni-
tence.
	One looking on with sober thought at the
mad pursuit of pleasure, or vanity, so to
speak, cannot but realize in some small de-
gree at least the consequences that must
inevitably follow sooner or later, the reck-
lessness of the youth of the present day;
whose lives are to a large extent given over
to the pursuit of pleasure that is harmful
in its tendency if not in itself.
	Watching the crowds of pleasure seekers
as they go to and fro to the various resorts
where they congregate, and listening to the
snatches of conversation, judging of the
light conduct of many of those whose time
should be better employed, is almost heart-
rending; when one considers what the con-
sequences of such folly must be.
	What is possible for those to do who have
at heart the welfare of young people in the
midst of this whirlpool of pleasure and ex-
citement!
	It is a problem not easily solved. The
mad rush and restlessness that seems to be
abroad everywhere at the present time is
like a contagion; it spreads abroad until it
would seem to cover the earth.
	Parental care and authority in some in-
stances seem but of little avail, the wisdom
and experience of mature years, advising


and instructing is disregarded, until seem-
ingly there can be no restraining influence
brought to bear that will shield the unwary
from the pitfalls that lead downward; and
unless some powerful resistance is brought
to bear the wild course will end in misery
and destruction.
	Among the Latter-day Saints there seems
every safeguard possible thrown around the
youth of both sexes, and what more or bet-
ter methods can be devised than have al-
ready been instituted and put in practice.
Prayers and faith and home-training and
watchfulness, almost vigilance—if these do
not avail with all the educational training in
the school, the Sabbath School, the Mutual
Improvement Associations, what can be
done?
	There is no other people that pays more
attention, if as much, to the rising genera-
tion than the Latter-day Saints; seemingly
the children of the Saints are hedged about
with every protection possible; here and
there for obvious reasons there may be
homes where there is not the discipline per-
haps that ought to exist, and perhaps not
the devotion, the faith, the prayers, but such
homes are the exception and not the rule;
then why is this maddening rush for vanity
that undermines the health, that deprives
the life of its best perservative qualities and
leaves weakness, unsteady nerves, and pro-
vokes a restlessness that only the rush of
excitement satisfies and that but momen-
tarily.
	These are questions we cannot answer,
and only the wisdom that comes from on
High can inspire parents, teachers, and those
who have charge of young people to keep
an “eternal vigilance” over the youth of
Zion, it is said eternal vigilance is the price
of liberty—but where there is not only lib-
erty but license one might say, and incen-
tives to wrong-doing and pitfalls on every
hand to be shunned, and the innocent and
unsuspecting know not of the deception of
evil-doers and the betrayers of virtue, what
can be dope to arrest the progress of the de-
stroyer.


