RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			LIBERTY STAKE.
	Semi-annual Conference of Liberty Stake
Relief Society was held in Ninth Ward
meetinghouse, June 22, 1911, Pres. Annie
S. Musser, presiding.
	Sisters Romania B. Penrose and Sarah
McLelland of General Board were present,
also Elder C. W. Symons of Liberty Stake
High Council.


After the opening exercises, Pres. Mus-
ser welcomed the sisters. The statistical
and financial report for the year ending
December, 1910, was read and accepted.
The general officers, also the stake officers
were unanimously sustained. A piano solo
was rendered by Sister Elnora Miller. Re-
ports were made of the first five wards of
Liberty Stake, all were progressing, and
in the line of their duty. Sister Maud Ken-
ner rendered the solo, “There is Sunshine in
the Soul.” Sister Penrose addressed us for
a short time on mother’s work, care of chil-
dren, also care of the body.
	Sister McLelland spoke on prohibition,
and the benefits to be derived by leading
temperate lives.
	After the closing exercises conference
took recess until 2 o’clock. During the
noon recess lunch was served to all present,
and a musical program rendered. Confer-
ence reconvened at 2 o’clock, after the op-
ening exercises Elder Levi E. Young gave
us a talk on the Signs of the Times, Relief
Society work, and related some early his-
tory of this Society, paid many tributes to
woman and motherhood, the talk was very
instructive and listened to with interest.
Sister Elnora Miller played a selection from
“Il Travatore.” Sister Sarah McLelland re-
lated some of her missionary experiences
and read a synopsis of her trip to Nauvoo.
Sister R. B. Penrose spoke of the early
trials and sufferings of the Saints, also of
her missionary labors in Europe. Elder
Symons urged all the sisters to work and
vote for prohibition; gave us some good
instructions, and encouraged us to continue
in doing good.
	President Musser thanked all who had
helped to make our conference a success,
and after the closing exercises, conference
adjourned for six months.
