				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.


[Column 1]
			JORDAN STAKE.
	Conference minutes of the Jordan Stake
Relief Society held at Sandy, May 18, 1911.
Pres. Hildah H. H. Larson presiding, Maria
T. Goff conducting the exercises.
	President Emmeline B. Wells and her
Counselors, Clarissa S. Williams, and Julina
L. Smith were present. Meeting opened
by singing, “We Thank Thee O God for a
Prophet.” Prayer by Stake Counselor
James Jensen. Continued by singing,
“Prayer is the Soul’s Sincere Desire.”
	Minutes of previous conference read and
roll called. Reports were heard from near-
ly all the wards, which were in good con-
dition, most of them owned granaries and
all were storing grain.
	Counselor Maria T. Goff felt pleased
with the reports and felt greatly honored to
have our dear President Emmeline B. Wells
and her counselors meet with us.
	President E. B. Wells felt pleased with
the reports given of Temple work done, and
complimented the sisters on the correctness
of reports given. Spoke of the great work
done by the Relief Society and urged the
sisters to do their duty as Relief Society
workers.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams was grate-
ful to the Lord for her position as a leader
in Relief Society work; urged us all to be
missionaries and get a better attendance to
our Relief Society meetings. The Lord has

[Column 2]
given us brains, so do not let them get rusty
but use them for a good purpose.
	Stake Counselor J. W. W. Fitzgerald
gave some good instructions to the sisters.
	Meeting closed by singing “High on the
Mountain Top.” Benediction by Elzina
Beckstead. Meeting adjourned till 2 o’-
clock.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened by
singing, “Come, Come Ye Saints.” Prayer
by J. W. W. Fitzgerald continued by sing-
ing, “How Firm a Foundation.” Minutes
read and approved.
	Counselor Julina L. Smith was pleased
to hear the stake was doing Temple work
as so many are waiting on the other side
for us to do the work for them. The
Prophet Joseph had said that all good and
virtuous women should belong to the Re-
lief Society. Let us as mothers do all we
can to stop the liquor traffic.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams thought
it a good idea that we had an honored list,
that is, of members too old and unable to
attend the saints’ meetings.
	We can all aim to be faithful and make
others love us.
	Pres. Hyrum Goff said: Sisters, oppose
everything wrong and uphold everything
that is right. Continue in working for the
dead as it is a glorious work.
	Pres. E. B. Wells said the Relief Society
was the oldest organization of women in
the world and was doing a great work in
caring for the sick and the poor. Bore her
testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Had never met another man so wonderful.
About $40,000.00 had been expended for
charity during the year 1910, by the Relief
Society in its stakes and branches, not in-
cluding missions.
	Pres. Hilda H. H. Larson felt to appre-
ciate that we all had had an opportunity of
hearing Pres. Emmeline B. Wells who has
had so much experience in Relief Society
work.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Closed by singing, “The Spirit of God.”
Benediction by Bishop W. D. Kuhre.
			ELIZABEETH GARDNER, Secy.
