IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Elizabeth Yates died at Salt Lake
City, Utah, on December 31st, 1910, where
brief funeral services were held, presided over
by the Bishopric of the Emerson ward, after
which the remains were sent to Scipio, Mil-
lard County, for burial
	At a regular meeting of the Relief Society
at the Emerson Ward, held Jan. 3rd, 1911.
The following resolutions were read and
adopted:
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom, called from our midst, on Saturday.
December 31st, 1910, Elizabeth F. Yates; be it
	Resolved, by the officers and members of the
Emerson Ward Relief Society, of which Sis-
ter Yates was a faithful member, that we deep-
ly mourn her loss, and that we greatly appreci
ate the purity of her life, her wise counsel,
worthy example and the sweet influence of her
noble character, furthermore, be it


[Column 1]
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved
our sincere sympathy in the loss of a loving
mother; and be it further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the bereaved family, also that they
be made a part of the record of the Relief
Society and that a copy be sent to the Wom-
an’s Exponent for publication.
					Luella Harrow,
						Secretary.
	SKETCH OF ELIZABETH F. YATES.
	In the burial of Sister Elizabeth F. Yates
at Scipio, Utah, on Jan. 3, 1911, there was
closed the mortal career of another of that
splendid type of Pioneer Mormon Womanhood
of which Utah is so justly proud. Sister Yates
was born in South Moulton, Devonshire, Eng-
land, Oct. 8, 1833, and received the Gospel
there, being baptized and confirmed a member
of the Church on Dec. 4, 1851. On May 23,
1863, she had decided to make the sacrifice of
home, and sever all family ties, (for she was
the only one of a large family to receive the
Gospel) and emigrate to Zion.
	Leaving Liverpool on that date on the sail-
ing vessel Antararctis, seven weeks were spent
on the sea, nine days on the train, three days
on the Missouri River boat, and two months
and three days on the plains, arriving in Salt
Lake City with rejoicing and thanksgiving on
Oct. 3, 1863. Spending a year in Lehi, Utah,
she came to Scipio, then called Round Valley,
in 1864, and began the real life of a Pioneer.
	Her first home was a “Dugout,” of which
she was very proud. She often spoke with
pride of this humble home and rejoiced in the
fact that even in the days of her poverty she
was permitted to receive and entertain in this
primitive “dugout” home such prominent
Church officials as Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon and
other members of the Council of Twelve Apos-
tles.
	Sister Yates was a superior woman in every
way, dignified in appearance, impressive in her
address and humble in her spirit, she impressed
everyone with whom she associated, and her in-
fluence for good can hardly be estimated.
	She loved education and refinement, and in
later years, as opportunities came, on her
table could always be found the choicest liter-
ature.
	She was a subscriber for the Deseret News
from the time she came to Utah in 1863 and
for the Woman’s Exponent from its first pub-
lication, till her death, and for the Juvenile
Instructor from its first issue till after her
youngest child was married.
	She was always active as a Church worker.
As a Sunday School teacher, as an officer in the
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion and the Primary Association she wielded
a splendid influence among the young people
of her home ward, and many bear testimony
that they received their first impression of
correct living from Sister Yates.
	From July, 1876, till May, 1883, she was Pres-
ident of the Relief Society of the Scipio Ward.
On this latter date she was released from this
position to accept the Presidency of the Relief
Society of Millard Stake, which position she
filled with credit and honor until the fall of
1904, when she left the stake in order to be
near her children who had moved to Salt Lake
City and Ogden. Sister Yates was the mother
of nine children, six of whom, together with
her husband, Bishop Thos. Yates, who died
Feb. 23, 1903, had preceded her to the other
side.
	Dying in full faith in the Gospel she looked
forward to a happy reunion with these and
other loved ones, and left with those remain-
ing an incentive for good living, so that they
too may enjoy the society of those “gone be-
fore.”
	The end came peacefully in her beautiful
home in Salt Lake City, on Dec. 31, 1910. Her
son, Thomas J. Yates, and her daughter, Liz-
zie Y. Thompson (the other daughter Louie Y.
Robison being detained at home on account of
sickness) accompanied the remains to Scipio,
where she was tenderly laid to rest by the side
of her husband.
	The funeral services were beautiful and im-
pressive. Remarks were made by Frederic R.
Lyman and Orvil L. Thompson of the Millard
Stake Presidency, by the members of the Bish-

[Column 2]
opric of the Scipio Ward, by Patriarch Daniel
Thompson, a life long friend and associate of
Bishop and Sister Yates, and Elder Peter
Nielson, a counselor to Bishop Yates during
his long service in that position. All bore
strong testimonies of the splendid life and
character of Sister Yates and encouraged her
children, her twenty-eight grand-children and
her eight great-grandchildren, to emulate in
their lives her worthy example.
	Nothing could be more beautiful than her
life. While she was in possession of physical
strength she ministered to the physical as well
as the spiritual needs of her associates, and
no one was ever turned from her home un-
warmed or unfed.
	As her physical powers failed she was able
to spend much time in the Temple of the Lord
where she did work for many of her loved
ones who had passed away, and as the end ap-
proached she could well say: “Father, my
work is done, take me home to Thee.”
	Dinah Stoddard Wrigley departed this life
June 1, 1911. Whereas, it has pleased our
Heavenly Father, the Ruler of the universe,
Who doeth all things well, to remove from
our midst our beloved sister and co-worker
in the Relief Society of the Ferron Ward, in
the Emery Stake of Zion.
	Be it resolved, that we extend to the family
our sincere sympathy and appreciation of our
sister’s worth.
	In her death we realize the loss of a faith-
ful and energetic good woman, who was ever
ready to minister to the sick and needy, and at
all times doing whatsoever she could to help
the upbuilding of the Church of God on the
earth, and therefore has earned the great re-
ward which has been promised to the faithful
and entitles her to a glorious resurrection.
	Sister Dinah Wrigley was born at Callile,
Cumberland County, England, May 16, 1850.
She crossed the ocean when six years of age,
and came to Utah in the first handcart com-
pany in 1858. Her father died while crossing
the plains. She was chosen second counselor
in the Relief Society Board, when it was or-
ganized at Ferron in Dec. 1882, and has held
an honorable position in the same up to the
time of her death.
	May He who has said He will be a hus-
band to the widow, and father to the fatherless,
pour into the wounded souls of the bereft ones
in this dark hour of separation, the oil of heal-
ing.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions
be sent, with our sympathies to the bereaved
family, and that the same be recorded on the
records of our Society, also a copy be sent to
the Woman’s Exponent for publication.
			MARY J. KING, President.
			OLIVE M. OLSEN, Secretary.


