BECAUSE. 
Because women have to obey the laws just 
	as men do, they should vote equally with
	men.
Because women pay taxes just as men do, 
	thus supporting the government, they 
	should vote equally with men. 
Because women suffer from bad govern-
	ment just as do men, they should vote
	equally.
Because mothers need every help in mak-
	ing their children’s environment good, 
	they should vote equally with men. 
Because over 5,000,000 women in the Unit-
	ed States are in industry, and their health 
	and that of our future citizens is endan-
	gered by evil working conditions that can
	only be remedied by legislation, they 
	should vote equally with men. 
Because women of leisure that serve the 
	State in public matters should be able to 
	back their advice by their vote, they 
	should vote equally with men. 
Because busy housemothers and profession-
	al women cannot give such public ser-
	vice, and only serve the State by the 
	same means used by the busy men—


namely, by casting a ballot; they should
	vote equally with men.
Because women need to be trained to a
	higher sense of social and civic respon-
	sibility and such sense develops by use,
	they should vote equally with men.
Because women are the consumers, and the
	consumers need fuller representation in
	politics, they should vote equally with
	men.
Because women are citizens of a democracy,
	which is a government of the people, BY
	the people and FOR the people, and
	women are people, they should vote
	equally with men.
The Organized Enemies of woman’s suf-
	frage are the Liquor Interests, the Cor-
	rupt Corporations and the Corrupt Pol-
	iticians.
Why? Because Woman’s chief interest is
	the Home and Women will VOTE FOR
	THE HOME.
The Liquor Traffic breaks up the Home by
	causing crime and poverty.
The Corrupt Corporations tend to break up
	the Home by endeavoring to place the
	wealth of our country in the hands of the
	few, leaving empty the hands of the
	many.
The Corrupt Politicians make possible the
	business crimes of the Liquor Interests
	and the Corrupt Corporations.—Ex.


