SKETCH OF THE LABORS OF
		MARY J. R. WEST.
	Mary J. R. West first saw the light of day
Oct. 24, 1847. Born of goodly parents in
what is now Davis County, Utah. Her first
home being a wagon box.
	Her parents were called, when she was
a little girl, to help settle Parowan, Iron
County, Utah. Here she met and married
John A. West. They lived in Parowan un-
til 1878, when they were called to settle
Arizona. To Arizona they came, making
their home in Snowflake.
	Eleven children were born unto them.
Four of whom have gone to the great be-
yond. One of the little ones was a sufferer
all his life, requiring the constant care of his
mother, and to this child she was most earn-
estly devoted. He lived five years.
	Her trials have been many, but were met
with courage and fortitude.
	As an example of her nobility of char-
acter and her constant devotion to the sad
and motherless I will relate a few incidents.
	She had a half brother who was so badly
frozen when a child that his mental faculties
were impaired, and after the death of her
mother she took this brother into her home
and cared for him until death came.
	Another brother was left with five small
children, for these sister West cared until
they were grown. One of these girls died,
leaving a little girl, and her dying request
was for “Auntie” to care for her child. This
she did and is now doing a mother’s part
by the child.
	Sister West has always been faithful in
attending her religious duties. She was the
first president of the Snowflake Ward Relief
Society which office she filled with honor
for fifteen years. November 21, 1895, she
was set apart as second counselor to Emma
S. Smith in the stake Relief Society. She
served in this office ten years. She was
called to preside over the Relief Society in
Snowflake Stake August 11, 1905. At a
recent conference the President and Board
were honorably released.
	During Sister West’s administration she
and her board have accomplished very much


good in helping the poor and needy, the sick
and those who needed comfort, and they
have contributed liberally to the public build-
ings. The results of the nurse course which
was established during the past six months
will probably be more beneficial than any
other work.
	Sister West has had very poor health dur-
ing most of last winter. She was helpless
for a number of weeks.
	She left Snowflake May 23 for her home
in Salt Lake City, where she will now re-
side. We will miss her very much in this
Stake. She leaves with the love and respect
of her co-laborers and all who knew her. We
trust she will regain health sufficient to per-
form the labor in the Temple which she de-
sires to accomplish.
