Literature THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 5 Les Miserables ONE literary critic has said: "For the great mass of the reading public, Les Miserables has a decided superiority over all the other productions of Victor Hugo.... Even for one who does not care for his magnificence of style, or for his striking way of presenting humors and social problems, or for the stream of poetry that runs through everything he wrote, the story told in this great novel is as fascinating as anything written by that greatest of amusers, Alexandre Dumas." When Jean Valjean realizes what the Bishop of D?? has done for him, he is touched to the heart and, henceforth believes in goodness and makes it his law. His future life is a series of self-sacrifices resulting in moral growth. As this novel is a "social record," the pages of Les Miserables are crowded with characters representing all types of people from all stations of life as they play a part in the life drama of Jean Valjean. Fantine, the girl from the Latin quarter, was, in the words of the author, "one of those beings which are brought forth from the heart of the people. Sprung from the most unfathomable depths of social darkness, she bore on her brow the mark of the anonymous and unknown... Who were her parents? None could tell, she had never known either father or mother... At the time of her birth the directory was still in existence. She could have no family name for she had no family. She could have no baptismal name, for then there was no church... She was called little Fantine. Nobody knew anything more of her... At the age of ten, Fantine left the city and went to service among the farmers of the suburbs. At fifteen she came to Paris to seek her fortune. Fantine was beautiful and remained pure as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 787 long as she could... She worked to live; then, also to live, for the heart too has its hunger, she loved." She was abandoned by her lover and forced into a life of degradation to support her child Cosette. A wonderfully dramatic and pathetic picture of Fantine is drawn. Her mother-love is exquisitely described. Hugo says: "She had committed a fault; but in the depths of her nature, we know dwelt modesty and virtue." Realizing that in order to provide for the child she must place it with others, Fantine left Cosette at the Inn with the infamous Thenardiers. The story of the child's life here rivals the worst experiences of Oliver Twist and Nicholas Nickleby. It is the same kind of compelling protest against the abuses of children. Master novelist that he is, Hugo delights in contrast. In the Bishop of D?? he has drawn a character embodying tender mercy and divine hope, the influence of which redeems Jean Valjean. In Javert, the police officer, is expressed the dark shadow of an evil past. He has recognized the ex-convict, and though Valjean temporarily evades him, wherever he goes Javert ferrets him out. In Book V, Chapter V, a remarkable picture is given of Javert, who is quite as distinct a character in one field as the Bishop is in another. It is an interesting study to note in this great novel the two forces in conflict as they influence the life of Jean Valjean. "Javert was born in prison. His mother was a fortune-teller whose husband was in the galleys. He grew up to think himself without the pale of society,. And despaired of ever entering it. He noticed that society closes its doors without pity on two classes of men, those who attack it, and those who guard it; he could choose between these two classes only... He entered the police. He succeeded. At forty he was an inspector... This man was a compound of two sentiments, very simple and very good in themselves, but he almost made them evil by his exaggeration of them; respect for authority and hatred of rebellion; and in his eyes all crimes were only forms of rebellion... He had nothing but disdain, aversion and disgust for all who had once overstepped the bounds of the law... They are irremediably lost; no good can come out of them... And his whole person expressed the spy and the informer." Under the name of Monsieur Madeline, Valjean has become a rich manufacturer, mayor of the town, and a noted philanthropist. Among his many kind acts, he befriends Fantine, whose life has become a series of sordid tragedies as she tries to earn money to send to the Thenardiers for the care of Cosette. Chapter VI is the recital of a marvelous act of self-sacrifice on the part of Monsieur Madeline. At the risk of his life, he saves a man in the village known to be his enemy. Javert has been among the spectators and is convinced through the demonstration of marvelous strength of the identity of Madeline. Though his whole life is a series of kind acts and generous thoughts for others, the evil genius of the past is ever present in Javert, who seeks Valjean for stealing the forty sous piece from the 788 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE child the day he left the Bishop's home. In atonement for that act, for which he was not responsible, Valjean had never ceased to search for the little fellow to make restitution, and had given thousands of francs and befriended all children. He is the only real friend Fantine has ever had; she tells him of Cosette, whom he promises to bring to her. Jean Valjean, to save another man mistaken for him, surrenders himself and is returned to prison. The chapters dealing with Monsieur Madeline's mental conflict are among the most thrilling and graphically presented psychological studies to be found in fiction. His surrender means the giving up of the fine business which is the very life of the village, it means giving up the social security he had obtained with such effort. The man suspected is a ne'er-do-well. The struggle is a fierce one. The chapter relating the interview between Javert and Monsieur Madeline is one of the most dramatic climaxes in literature. The spirit of the Bishop of D??? is ever with Jean Valjean, and in the end his conscience triumphs. The officer relates the circumstantial evidence against the prisoner and expresses his positive conviction that it is Jean Valjean. He tells what the nature of the conviction will be for the ex-convict and finally apologizes to Monsieur Madeline for having suspected him. Chapter XI, Book Seven, records the famous trial. The accused has been identified as Jean Valjean and convicted when Monsieur Madeline appears and says in a mild voice: " "Gentlemen of the jury, release the accused. Your honor, order my arrest. He is not the man whom ye seek; it is I. I am Jean Valjean,' " His speech to the court is a model of simplicity and sincerity. It leaves no room for doubt. He tells where they can find the forty sous piece of which, seven years before, he had robbed Petit Gervais. It is Javert who arrests Valjean as he is paying a visit to Fantine who is dying. A world of pathos is expressed in this death scene. Not until Fantine is dead will Valjean leave her. Then he goes with Javert to the city prison from which he makes his escape during the night. He returns to his home where the two nuns are watching the body of Fantine. He makes provision for a decent burial for her; he is very generous in his gifts for the poor, and he entrusts the Cure to take charge of all he leaves behind. He carefully packs the two silver candlesticks with which he never parts. His hair has turned snow white in the fearful ordeal through which he has passed. He leaves the village to go to Paris. The death of Fantine closes the first major division of the novel. THE second division consists of the famous treatise on Waterloo. To quote from one of Victor Hugo's biographers: "No writer so constantly and fervently joined in the Napoleonic worship a$ did Victor Hugo; we must add that in no subject was he so much at ease as in these themes on Napoleon. The greatness of the man, the greatness of the events, the contrast between the height of power to which he attained and the depths of misery which succeeded the splendor of his triumphs?all these elements admirably blended with the love of the gi- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 789 gantic, the admiration for contrast and antithesis, the gorgeous imagery which distinguished Hugo's muse." As Jean Valjean wandered over the battlefield of Waterloo, the author takes occasion to reveal, as he saw it, the whole of that gigantic military tragedy. It is a classic complete in itself, but it has a very direct bearing on the novel in its final development. The comments on the nations and the leaders of their armies in this mighty conflict are in Hugo's best style. Chapter XVI deals with the Duke of Wellington and the English. "Waterloo, moreover, is the strangest encounter in history. Napoleon and Wellington; they are not enemies, they are opposites. Never has God, who takes pleasure in antithes- - is, made a more striking contrast and a more extraordinary meeting." Wellington is calculation, Napoleon genius?and "this time genius was vanquished by calculation... Waterloo is a battle of the first rank, won by a captain of the second. What is truly admirable in the Battle of Waterloo is England; English firmness, English resolution, English blood, the superb thing which England had there?may it not displease her?is herself. It is not her captain, it is her army." Another quotation: "Was it possible that Napoleon should win this battle? We answer no. Why? Because of Wellington? Because of Blucher? No. Because of God. For Bonaparte to be conqueror at Waterloo was not in the law of the nineteenth century. Another series of facts were preparing in which Napoleon had no place. The ill-will of events had long been announced. It was time that this vast man should fall.... Reeking blood, over-crowded cemeteries, weeping mothers, these are formidable pleaders. When the earth is suffering from a surcharge, there are mysterious moanings from the depths which the heavens hear. Napoleon had been impeached before the Infinite, and his fall was decreed. He vexed God. Waterloo is not a battle; it is the change of front of the universe." Jean Valjean was retaken and returned to the galleys. The chapters under the heading, "The Ship Orion" give an account of the collapse of the fine business he, as Monsieur Madeline, had established, and the lapse of the village again into poverty, a sad comment on the irony of life. The story of Jean Valjean's rescue of the sailor who had fallen overboard is a marvelous demonstration of physical strength and _self-sacrifice. "The throng applauded; old galley sergeants wept, women hugged each other on the wharves, and on all sides, voices were heard exclaiming, with a sort of tenderly subdued enthusiasm: "This man must. Be pardoned!'... The next morning the Toulon Journal published the following lines?November 17, 1823. Yesterday a convict at work on board the Orion, on his return from rescuing a sailor, fell into the sea, and was drowned. His body was not recovered. It is presumed that it has been caught under the piles at the pier-head of the arsenal. This man was registered by the number 9430, and his name was Jean Valjean." Questions and Suggestions 1. Briefly relate the story of Fantine. 790 - NOVEMBER,  . What great English novelist of this period in some characteristics suggests Hugo? 3. Have someone give a brief sketch of Javert. Compare him with the Bishop of D???. 4. Why did Hugo write with so much feeling of the Battle of Waterloo? Estimate the literary value of the sketch. 5. Describe the transformation in Jean Valjean.