We shall have to admit one thing about the Changed Life Saul?he was thorough. Nothing short of complete extermination of the early church satisfied him. The unusual quality of Saul's intellect and training shows up plainly even in his persecution activities. But the Lord took a hand. A vigorous, sincere, well-disciplined Pharisee, if rightly taught, could do just as much good in the service of the Church, as he could evil under the influence of a mistaken Jewish philosophy. Let us not be misled. Saul was no ordinary Pharisee. He had undoubtedly led a clean, wholesome life which, judging from certain statements of Christ in the Gospels, could not be said of some Pharisees. Furthermore, he had the special qualities necessary to make a successful apostle. Otherwise, the Master would never have chosen him for the important service he had in mind. We truly believe that Saul in all of his persecutions and drivings of the Christians did so with a firm conviction that he was in God's service. (I Timothy 1:12, 13.) He was no hypocrite. Shortly before reaching Damascus, Saul had his famous vision. "And suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven; and he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why per- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 783 secutest thou me?" We need not argue, as some have done, over the details of this vision and attempt to wrest from the Scriptures more than they plainly tell us. (Acts 9:3-9; 22:6-11; 26:12-18; I Cor. 15:8.) Suffice it to say that Saul knew, better than it was possible for mortal man to express, that Jesus was the Christ. He was henceforth to be in the service of the Master. SAUL REVERSES HIMSELF. We can only imagine what it must have meant to a man of Saul's training and temperament to suddenly find that the hated Jesus of Nazareth, whose humble followers he had been persecuting, was in reality the Messiah for whose coming the Jews were all looking. The greater the intelligence and training of a man under such circumstances, the greater the shock?and Saul was highly intelligent. When he could find words he said, "Who art thou, Lord?" The Lord said, "I am Jesus, whom thou persecutest. But rise, and stand upon thy feet; for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee; delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom I now send thee, to open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. Go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do." (See Acts 26:16-18; 9:5, 6.) It will be noted that Saul mentions not one word of reproach from the Savior. He was taken, physically blind, but spiritually very much awake, to Damascus where he was left at the house of one Judas, who was probably expecting him. (Acts 9:11.) Saul's three days of blindness roughly correspond in effect to the repetition of visions experienced by the Prophet Joseph Smith?his affliction gave him a good opportunity for mental readjustment and impressed the teachings he had received more firmly upon his mind. His theology, like Job, was on the ash heap, but out of it a new one, incomparably greater, was to arise. Saul's remarkable training in the Scriptures enabled him to understand quickly the teachings of Christ. Soon the whole panorama of Christian philosophy would be spread out before his quick mentality. After Ananias had healed Saul (Acts 9:10-19) the latter began to preach of Christ as zealously as he had formerly persecuted him. He did so well that soon the Jews sought to put him to death. (Acts 9:20-25.) This change on Saul's part we may call the Great Reversal. It is probably the greatest in history and has had greatest effects. A JEWISH THEOLOGIAN LEARNS CHRISTIANITY. One gets the impression from reading Acts 9:26-30 that Saul, immediately after escaping his enemies in Damascus, set out for Jerusalem and on arriving there conferred with the apostles. In the letter to the Galatians (1:16-19) we get a different understanding of what happened. "I immediately conferred not with flesh and blood; neither went I up to Jerusalem to those which were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia, and returned again unto Da- 784 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mascus. Then, after three years, I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days. But other of the apostles saw I none, save James, the Lord's brother." We do not know what part of Arabia Saul departed to, whether Sinai in the south, or elsewhere. He found quiet places where he could meditate and be taught by the spirit of revelation. In his letter to the Galatians, Saul emphasizes the fact that he did not receive the Gospel from man. "Nor was I taught it, but I received it through revelation of Jesus Christ." (Galatians 1:12.) It is perfectly possible that Saul, like Moses, John the Baptist, and even the Christ, learned many or most of the principles he was to teach by revelation while in Arabia. Because of the fact that he was to be a special emissary to the Gentiles he no doubt received instructions pertaining to that calling. We should much like to know what passed between Peter and Saul during the latter's visit to Jerusalem. It is probable that Peter told Saul first hand his experiences in the service of the Master and received in exchange the younger man's story of his unusual revelation. The visit of the future Apostle of the Gentiles to Jerusalem was not devoid of unpleasant experiences. The disciples still remembered his former persecutions and were afraid of him until Barnabas reassured them. (Acts 9:26, 27.) While in Jerusalem Saul preached boldly and soon was forced to flee to Tarsus via Caesarea. (Acts 9:28-30.) Saul seems to have worked in Syria and Cilicia for a long time, apparently fourteen years. (Galatians 1:21; 2:1.) During this period he received remarkable revelations that set him apart as one of God's great men. (See II Corinthians 12:1-4.) All of these experiences prepared Saul for the wider fields of missionary service that were yet to come. SAUL APPROVED FOR THE WORK. It is not to be inferred by this topic heading that Saul had not already been preaching. But his most vital and lasting contribution to Christianity was yet to come. The young Church of Christ had not yet formally declared its approval of a mission to the Gentiles. And work among the Gentiles was destined to be Saul's special work and joy. One of the many points showing the Acts to be an inspired book is that Peter, not Saul, formally opens the mission to the Gentiles. (Acts 10, 11.) That is as it should be for, according to the order of the Priesthood, it was Peter's prerogative to receive the revelation pertaining to and give the orders to set in motion any momentous undertaking. True enough, Saul had apparently been preaching: to the Gentiles, but not officially. (Galatians 2:2.) According to Acts 11:19-30 a thriving branch of the Church had been built up at Antioch. A number of "Greeks," or Gentiles, had also believed and "turned to the Lord". The report of them created great interest in Jerusalem, and Barnabas was sent to investigate. He sought out Saul, and both of them worked a year in Antioch with great success. At the time of the great famine, Barnabas and Saul were entrusted with relief funds for the brethren at Jerusalem. (See Acts 11:27-30.) It is probable that this visit is the one referred to in Gal. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 785 2:1, 2. "Then, fourteen years after, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and took Titus with me, also. And I went up by revelation, and communicated unto them that Gospel which I preach among the Gentiles." Apparently the time was at hand for Saul to begin his formal mission to the Gentiles, and the Lord wanted him to explain his views and calling to the heads of the Church. In fact, Saul says that he had been intrusted "with the gospel of the Uncircumcision, as Peter was with that of the Circumcision." (Gal. 2:7.) The Church Authorities then gave Saul and Barnabas "right hands of fellowship" that they should go to the Gentiles. (Gal. 2:9.) Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit) 1. Compare the backgrounds of Saul and Joseph Smith in relation to age, education and experience at the time they received their first visions. 2. Name as many qualifications of Saul as you can that eminently fitted him to be an apostle to the Gentiles. 3. Describe Saul's character as portrayed in the ninth chapter of the Acts. 4. Why did such a long time elapse between Saul's first vision and the time the Church Authorities gave him the right hand of fellowship to carry on work among the Gentiles? (See Gal. 2:1-9.) 5. See if you can arrange a connected story of Saul's activities from the death of Stephen to the time he went up to Jerusalem to consult Peter, James and John about the gospel he was preaching to the Gentiles. (See Acts 7:11; 22:26; II Cor. 11:32, 33; Gal. 1:2.)