Vol. XXVI NOVEMBER, 1939 No. 11
EDITORIAL
STAKES and wards are once more intensively engaged in the Membership Drive. Though not entirely attaining the goal set last year, sufficient impetus was given the work to justify our looking forward to a secure 100,000 by 1942. The ingeniousness and efficiency of coordinators merits our highest commendation. The fine support of executive officers as well as all groups within the Organization has played an important part in the momentum attained and membership secured. The clever, original, dignified showmanship has created and sustained interest and stimulated activity. We congratulate all who have so earnestly furthered this important program.
While we appreciate the ingenuity of our sisters in securing new members, we urge that great care be exercised so that nothing will be introduced which will in any way work a hardship upon the sisters or prove in the least embarrassing to them. It has been called to the attention of the General Board that a few of our organizations have introduced "The Secret Pal" or "Big Sister" movement. We recognize that this capitalizes upon a deep-seated need of all sisters for an intimate, personal friendship, that it carries with it the element of surprise, which is delightful, and the joy of giving. However, there are in our societies many sisters for whom providing even the least expensive gift ?a card?would be a hardship. Health as well as financial circumstances makes it difficult for many of our most devoted women to secure appropriate remembrances, small though they may be. Then, it is a truth that strive as we will to hold these gifts to a mere expression of love and friendship some people are so filled with the love of giving and their circumstances make it so easy for them to give generously that they go beyond what is intended?first, they send a card, next a linen handkerchief, then silk hose. The sister receiving these more expensive gifts may be one who can scarcely afford a card; yet, within her heart she longs to be equally generous to her "big sister". So, rather than being made happy over the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 747
gift which is hers, she is unhappy because she cannot in turn give as much as she has received. Then, too, when the time comes to disclose the identity of the "pal" or "big sister," if gifts have not been comparative in value, there may be great embarrassment. We realize the motives behind the introduction of such things into our Society are the finest. But Relief Society discourages anything that may in the least degree make anyone feel inadequate. We are a great sisterhood, loving one another irrespective of economic or social levels. Our expressions of love and friendship are continuous, everyday expressions, the kind word, the good deed. Required, material gifts for everyone irrespective of need or circumstances have no place in our program.