Amy Whipple Evans By Julia A. F. Lund RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 733 WHEN former President Clarissa S. Williams chose her Board, Amy W. Evans was among the number, and she remained with the group when President Louise Y. Robison assumed leadership. For more than eighteen years Sister Evans gave splendid service as a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Familiar with the work of the Organization through her association on the Granite Stake Relief Society Board, where she was a member of the social committee and had charge of the teacher-training work, she brought to the general organization knowledge and experience added to a wealth of native ability. Sister Evans is a woman of extensive and varied interests. Highly intellectual, she is deeply spiritual, a combination which blends beautifully in a womanly woman, which Sister Evans is in the truest sense. During her many years of service, she has been a member of every standing committee on the Board and has wielded a great influence in shaping its educational policy. In addition to visiting practically every stake in the Church, she has helped prepare the Conference-Convention programs. She was the Acting Editor of the Relief Society Magazine during the year Miss Alice Reynolds, while Editor, was absent in Europe. Splendidly trained through extensive study and much experience as a case worker, Sister Evans was the supervisor of the Social Service Department of the General Office for a number of years. The following is a tribute from one of her students: "Thus far in my experience as a student of social welfare and as a professional social worker, I have yet to find a professor of social work, an executive of any social welfare office, or a social case worker who has been as inspirational to me as Mrs. Amy W. Evans. I consider it a privilege to have worked under her supervision because from her I have learned the most valuable lessons that a person in my profession could learn. She possesses the qualities which go to make up eminence in her field: First, she has a keen intellect which she applies well in her work; second, she can make proper decisions because she has the capacity to weigh all parts of a situation carefully."; In recognition of the fine service rendered in the field of social work, a Fellowship established at the University of Utah School of Social Work was named in her honor. The Amy Whipple Evans Fellowship is a fitting and enduring tribute to her. The members of the General Board who have had the privilege of serving with Sister Evans feel their lives greatly enriched by association with her and a sense of deep personal loss since she has resigned from the Board. A clear thinker, she is also deliberate, so her opinions carry much weight. She has a fine sense of humor and abundant originality. Her deep insight into life gives her great sympathy and good judgment. Sister Evans is an artist of which harmony is a vital element. She believes that the art of living is "the finest of the fine arts". Her contribution has been a rich one in helping her fellowmen to realize this.