Character Education Bulletins
THE Utah State Department of Public Instruction has recently placed in all public and school libraries copies of two excellent bulletins, Character Education and Suggestions for Teaching the Effects of Alcohol, Tobacco and Other Narcotic Drugs. The schools of the State are carrying forward a program based upon the suggestions of these bulletins, adapted of course to the local needs, in compliance with the following House Bills: No. 60, an act to provide for special education for persons under 18, regarding the harmful effects of alcoholic beverages, including beer containing alcohol, tobacco and harmful narcotics; No. 61, an act to provide for special education in those qualities of character and habits of living that will make for upright and desirable citizenry. The Relief Society is deeply interested in the problems of youth and whole-heartedly endorses any program designed to promote the welfare of children. We urge our members to acquaint themselves with the bulletins, which have been made so easily available, in order that we may more intelligently cooperate with the schools.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE October 4, 5, 1939 Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THE Semi-annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, October 4-5, 1939. The Conference consisted of eight sessions: An opening meeting, five department meetings, a general officers' meeting and a general session for the public. President Louise Y. Robison presided over the Conference. The attendance was exceptionally large, consisting of general officers, board members and class leaders. The response to the roll call was as follows: 120 stakes, 3 missions, 3 mission presidents, 91 stake presidents, 139 counselors, 52 secretaries, and 491 board members.
Following the custom of previous years, the subject matter for the department meetings was the formal educational program of the Relief Society. The music, instrumental and vocal, was especially fine. During the public session, Mrs. Vincent Hilles Ober, President of the National Federation of Music Clubs, was in attendance and spoke in high praise of the work of Relief Society in the field of music, especially complimenting the efforts of the Relief Society Singing Mothers.
REORGANIZATIONS
The following reorganizations were reported:
Date Stake Released Appointed President Sept. 10, 1939 Cache Lula Y. Smith Mary M. West Sept., 1939 East Jordan Alta F. Andrus Lucy B. Godfrey June 18, 1939 Franklin Bertha P. Larson Alice S. Merrill July 5, 1939 Highland Jennie B. Duffin Allie R. Barnes 1939 Hollywood Zatelle F. Sessions Julia E. Parry July 16, 1939 Idaho Falls Mary S. Jordan Martha R. Telford Sept. 30, 1939 North Weber Cora Christensen Nellie W. Neal Sept. 1939 St. George Juanita L. P. Brooks Marian M. Snow Sept. 1939 Star Valley Pearl B. Holbrook Arvilla Hyer Aug. 27, 1939 Wayne Mary A. Brinkerhoff Ruby M. Forsyth 1939 Maricopa Mary M. Davis Clara Goodman Aug. 27, 1939 Ogden Cora S. Jenkins Kate F. Woodbury May 31, 1939 Oneida Ellen B. Larson Ora W. Packer Aug., 1939 St. Johns Camelia J. Rencher Clara R. Sherward June 25, 1939 Sevier Estella Poulsen Myrl Brugger
Missions Central States Nellie D. Woodruff Edna M. Bowman Hawaiian Cassandra D. Bailey Armada B. Cox New England Fern C. Eyring Valeria B. Young Northern States May G. Hinckley Ethie M. Muir
Opening Session
GREETINGS By President Louise Y. Robison
MY dear sisters, although I appreciate the honor of extending greetings to you, I have difficulty in expressing the sincere admiration and love which the General Board has for you dear co-workers. Many of us have worked together for years, we have solved problems together, we have prayed for each other, we have witnessed unselfish devotion to the work of Relief Society until our hearts are as one. We miss some of the dear ones whom we have learned to love until they seem part of our very lives. In their places, however, are new members of our great "official family" whom we greet with love, having confidence that they will carry our banner forward with the same spirit of devotion as the former sisters have done. I wish we had some way of introducing the new members. Each of us might try to see how many she can individually welcome. If you newer sisters (I dare not say younger) only knew how delighted all of us would be to meet you, I am sure you would go out of your way to introduce yourselves. Our meetings today will be devoted entirely to the educational work, and we especially welcome the class leaders. We deeply appreciate the excellent work you are doing. Hardly a report has been given this year by the General Board member who has visited your stake which has not been high in praise of the way you have treated the topics assigned to you. I sometimes wonder, though, when you are engrossed with your special lesson, if you create the desire in the ward class leader to think of the development of the whole Relief Society program, or only the lesson which the class leader is giving. The theology lesson could be made much stronger, and the members of the class would receive a broader understanding if some correlation could be made between it and the literary and social service lessons. There is hardly a lesson given in literature and social service, and certainly not a teacher's message which would not be vitalized by reference to some principle taught in the theology lesson, and all lessons should be applied to everyday life. Relief Society is working for the development of the individual woman. A well-rounded program is provided. We place it in your competent hands with the prayer that you will be given inspiration from the Great Teacher, that you, too, will bring life more abundant to those whom you teach.
Visiting Teacher Department Belle S. Spafford, Chairman.
SENTIMENTS FROM THE HOME By Vera S. Hilton President, Deseret Stake Relief Society
FROM a scientific standpoint, a response from ten to twenty per cent of a group is considered a very accurate representation of the opinion of that group. With this thought in mind, mimeographed sheets were sent to twenty per cent of our 930 family heads (of course, by heads I refer to the women) asking for their reaction to Relief Society visiting teaching. Of the 142 women replying, only two did not enjoy nor approve of the visits of the visiting teachers, stating that they had no benefit nor spiritual value in their homes. One woman thought the effort required was very great for the amount of benefit derived in any home; the other, that the main value was to the visiting teachers themselves and suggested that they visit only in the summer or occasionally, as need arose. The remaining 140 women reported that they enjoyed and appreciated the visits and felt they had benefited by them. The following values were listed: Educational?new ideas brought into the home; improved morale?cheered, rested, encouraged, comforted; inspirational?filled one with a desire and determination to live better lives and perform duties more faithfully; social?appreciated kindness and friendship of the visiting teachers; community?developed good will and sense of community responsibility; spiritual?left fine spirit in the home and better understanding and appreciation of the Gospel; Relief Society?general reminder of Relief Society, its values, purposes and responsibilities. Criticisms and suggestions for improvement of the work had to do not with the system itself but with the administration of it. In every case where comment was made, the women preferred having a message and having it discussed, not read, hurried through, nor broken into with discussions foreign to it. Other suggestions were: Visits should be short, business-like and friendly, not curious nor personal. News should not be carried from one home to another nor teachers indulge in faultfinding or talk about personal troubles. Teachers should be more humble and prayerful; they should be better prepared and use better methods. The teacher-training meeting should be more faithfully attended and visiting teachers have and use the Relief Society Magazine. Families in the district should be studied and special needs in each home understood. Attempts should be made to find new ways of appealing to those who do not attend Relief Society. It was suggested by a few Relief Society women that teachers remind them of their dues and donations. Some women suggested that fathers and children, if at home, be included in the discussion of the Message and that it be discussed with them if the mother were absent. Others thought the attitude of homes visited 752 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE should be improved, while some felt more care should be exercised by Relief Society presidents in the selection and assignment of teachers; that teachers be so instructed as to more fully sense their duties and feel their work a privilege. It was also suggested that a definite time be set for visits. A few, and these were visiting teachers themselves, felt that they had too much contact with the Message: First, in the teacher-training meeting, then as they took the Message into the homes in their districts and again as it was brought into their own homes by other visiting teachers. May we, through our visiting teaching, be able to strengthen our people, give them new thought, new comfort, new courage, new desire and determination to live the abundant life?the life of service. VISITING TEACHING TODAY By Counselor Kate M. Barker IT is a wonderful experience to meet together as we are this morning?a group of people coming from so many different places and yet understanding one another so well because of common ideals, common interests. 'This is the great purpose of life. Our Father in Heaven wishing for the greatest development and happiness of His children, planned a world where they would love to learn, to live and work together. The world is coming to realize that the biggest problem it has is the problem of human relationships. "To be alive in such an age! With every year a lightning page Tumed in the world's great wonder book Whereon the leaning nations look. When men speak strong for brotherhood, For peace and universal good." More and more, men are speaking strong for brotherhood. Organizations, national and international, are being formed for the purpose of bringing about brotherhood, which means understanding, appreciation, helpfulness, peace and love. But before there can be real brotherhood, there must be a common acceptance of the fatherhood of God, and this the world has not. Our Father in Heaven is expecting His Church to take the leadership in this movement. The fatherhood of God is a reality to us. He has not only given us the greatest of laws, ""Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thy self" (Luke 10:27), but He has also given us the perfect machinery for the realization of this love. This machinery is the Church, and every organization in the Church has a very definite responsibility. The work of Relief Society visiting teachers strikes at the very heart of brotherhood. When the Relief Society was first organized and the visiting teachers appointed, there were very definite needs to be met. People were joining the Church, one of a family, two of a city, and coming to Nauvoo. How lonely some of them must have been! But these friendly visitors went about, saying by their visit, "You are not alone, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 753 you are with your brothers and sisters." It was a hard winter. There was sickness and poverty. People had to keep close to one another, to render aid where there was need and in order that those who had might share with those who had not. Throughout the pioneer days there was a great need for this service. But as the population increased, the need was not so great. Gradually, mutual helpfulness was to a great extent replaced by specialization. There were hospitals, nurses, undertakers, social workers. But there is still need for this type of service?no one knows when, and it is better to go ninety-nine times when there is not a need than to miss the one time when there is. There is always the spiritual need. The need for the friendly hand, the encouraging word, the comforting word. There are always people who are discouraged, those whose faith is weakening, those who are in sorrow. This service is probably the greater challenge, for to be of real service in the spiritual realm one must have the "understanding heart", as_ expressed in the poem "The Visiting Teacher's Prayer" by Afton Free Baird: "Give me, Oh Lord, this day, The power to do one kindly deed; Help me this day, I pray, To plant one little seed. Of faith and hope within the heart Of one despondent. "Give me, Oh Lord, this day, The power to lift another's sorrow; One word of comfort say That will brighten the tomorrow Of some sad heart that ever longs For one departed. "Help me, Oh Lord, this day, Unselfishly to give; Show me the way, I pray, A better life to live, For I shall dedicate this day To Thee, Oh Lord." Do we appreciate the wonderful efficiency of our Organization? In an emergency, practically every home in the Church could be contacted in a day. No one need ever be desperately in need if the visiting teacher's work is 100% efficient. The Relief Society is for every adult woman of the Church, and in our Relief Society meetings we contact regularly only about one-fourth of them. It is easy to say they are not interested, that we plan a fine program and are ready to hold out the hand of fellowship, if they will only come. But that is not the spirit of the Gospel. That was not Jesus' way. He did not stand on a mountain and teach those who would come. He went into the homes and market places to seek the people. The message of the visiting teacher is the only Gospel message which reaches many of the homes. In our complex civilization, with the rapid tempo of living, many spiritual values are being lost. The Church must guard these values if we are to know the fellowship which our Father in Heaven wishes us to know. Before the days of quick and easy transportation,. There were ?neighborhoods". People exchanged labor, the social life was largely the life of the neighborhood; neighbors worked together, played together and developed a strong "we'' feeling. The sorrow of one was the sorrow of all. No one felt he was standing alone. There was a feeling of security because of being one of the neighborhood group. But now we do not 754 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE know the people living on the same block, or in the same apartment house. Life today is expressed in this verse: "I thought the house across the way was empty, Till yesterday crepe on the door, made me aware Some one had been living there." Have you ever been in a large city and had sickness in the family and felt that terrible loneliness which comes at such a time? People want neighbors. Human beings crave that security which comes from feeling that there are those near who are interested in them. When the Relief Society visiting teachers come to our homes, their presence says to us, "You are not alone. We are your friends. If you need help, we are ready to help, and back of us is a great organization of sisters who are also your friends." The sense of security which we feel will be in direct proportion to the sincerity and dependability of the teachers and the regularity of the visits. We are awakening to the full import of the great principle laid down by Paul, "No man liveth unto himself" and, "Finally be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous; not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing, but contrariwise blessings; Knowing that ye are thereunto called that ye should inherit a blessing." John's message was, "Love one another". But love does not come from a sense of duty; love comes from understanding and appreciation. In the hurry of life today we do not learn to really know people. We see so many people in this fast-moving age that our so-called friends are scarcely more than acquaintances. Lives touch only on the surface. In the horse and buggy days, one could drive along the street, see a friend at the side of the road, drive to the side, stop and visit for awhile. But today, our eyes are glued to the road; we do not see who is at the side of the road, and as a result, there are many neglected kindnesses, many forgotten courtesies and often stupid blunders and misunderstandings. We judge people too often by things that do not count?external things, little peculiarities. We see, too often, the little weaknesses and fail to see the strengths. As life becomes more complex, it is increasingly difficult for us to know people whose natural interests are different from our own. But if our Church cannot bring together people whom the ordinary affairs of life tend to push apart, because of education, economic levels, social backgrounds etc., if the testimony of the Gospel which we have does not make for a "fellowship" based on understanding and appreciation, then we are failing. THE visiting teacher comes into our homes each month with a spiritual message. She comes to talk with us. We have an opportunity to know her because we are meeting on the highest level, talking of those things about which we feel the deepest. We have a common meeting ground?a testimony of tlie Gospel. The prophet Ezekiel was commanded by the Lord to visit some convicts. Ezekiel was a learned man, he was a prophet and resented the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 755 idea of being sent to visit the convicts. He thought, "What have I in common with them?" But he went and sat with them and talked with them and came away astonished at what he found in the hearts of these convicts. In one of our wards was a woman whose standards of housekeeping were not as high as the standards of the community. As a result, she was criticized, not taken in as an intimate member of the group. A visiting. Teacher who was assigned to that district said, "How can I talk with her? What have I in common with her?" But she visited her several times, and soon after in a group when as usual some one was criticizing this sister, the visiting teacher said, "But you don't know her. If you knew her as I have come to know her you would love her as I do." We need more such loyalties. In another district was a woman who because of educational advantages and wealth was considered proud and unapproachable. The visiting teacher assigned to this home said, "How can I visit her? How can I talk with her about the Message?" But after a few visits, after sitting and talking about the Message, the teacher said, "I have found that she is one of the most humble women I know." We need more such interpreting of one to another. In our affairs of everyday life, how many of us get an opportunity to talk to another regarding the things we feel deepest about? We are so busy with making a living and with the mechanics of living that most of our conversation is about these surface things of life. But all of us have longings and ideals which if not expressed are more or less smothered. Even in our Church meetings we are passive. Our ideas are enlarged and intensified as we bring them in contact with those of others. Expressed, they became a part of us. The visiting teachers come to our homes each month. They come to talk with us fora few moments about spiritual things. They are sisters of like ideals even though they may not have had the same experiences. We have an opportunity for self-expression and growth in talking with them. The last night which Jesus spent with His disciples before His betrayal He prayed for them, "Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are.. "Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word: "That they all may be one, as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me."?John 17:11; 20: 21. This prayer is for us today. If we are to have the unity which Jesus prayed that we might have, if we are to build the brotherhood which He wishes His church to have, it must be based on more than cooperation in work, more than general in- _terest in people, or on general love for mankind. It must be built on real, personal friendship based on understanding and appreciation. To achieve such a unity is the real challenge of the Church today, the achievement of which will bear our testimony to the world that Jesus is 756 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Christ and His gospel is the practical way of life. The Relief Society visiting teacher has a wonderful opportunity for service in helping to bring this understanding and appreciation. THE MESSAGES AND THEIR USE By Leda T. Jensen ONE very definite part of the mision of the visiting teacher today is to carry the Gospel by precept and example into the homes of our people. The name "visiting teacher" implies that we do something about teaching, about stimulating those whom we visit to better thoughts and ultimately to better ways of life. The "Messages to the Home" have been prepared for this special reason, to provide a definite thought which would stimulate profitable discussion during the visit of the teacher in the home. The Messages are of a spititual nature and are correlated with the theology lessons. The titles of the subjects for this season are found in the June, 19309, issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The subjects selected contain the very essence of true religion. 'They are practical rules of conduct, which should be brought frequently to the minds of the women of the'Church. Religion is the most vital force in life to keep people living on a higher plane. The teaching program of the Church is very extensive, but there are many baptized members of the Church who do not avail themselves of any of the avenues of learning that are opened freely to them. Should not some effort be made to take the Gospel to them if they will not come and partake? Visiting teachers have access to many homes denied all others. 'The teaching in the homes will be informal, but the best results have often been found where individual teaching is possible. If the Messages are not being carried to the homes in the wards and are not being discussed in a creditable manner, renewed effort in the stakes is necessary. In order to establish a friendly relationship in the home, a prerequisite to successful teaching, and to know what approach to use to the lesson, it is necessary to know the families in the district. Visiting teachers should. Be interested in them, in their interests, and in what they are doing, so they will have a common ground on which to meet. One meets several types of women in visiting the homes. Each will have to be approached in a different way. What appeals to one type probably will not appeal to another. The faithful, the busy, the indifferent, the haughty person?each will have to be studied and wisely approached. Move slowly but persistently. Don't be too easily offended or think too much of being inconvenienced. Remember, "Ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve Him with all your heart, might, mind and strength." Make your preparation meeting held the first Tuesday of each month a teacher-training meeting. Don't use the time to embellish the material in the Magazine. There is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 757 sufficient material there for the length of discussion advisable in the home. Instead of devoting too much time to the what of the message, more time should be given to the use of it. How to present the topic, difficulties encountered and successful visits made would be of practical assistance to the teachers. Make the teachers' preparation meeting so interesting none can afford to miss it. Theology Department Annie Wells Cannon, Chairman PAUL THE APOSTLE TO THE GENTILES By Dr. Lowell L. Bennion HEN first asked to speak to you on the subject "Paul the Apostle to the Gentiles", I was very disappointed, because I did not feel authoritative in connection with the life of Paul; second, I thought of so many things that I would rather talk with the Relief Society group about than the missionary work of Paul. However, after some reflection I was very glad that such a topic had been assigned to me, for I found so much in the life of Paul that is closely related to the spirit of Relief Society work. I became aware of the difficult problem of selecting from many things one or two that we might discuss together. Of all the people in our Church, and I say it without reservation, I believe the Relief Society sisters are most whole-heartedly devoted to the service of the Master, Jesus Christ. I think that Relief Society sisters are preparing themselves intelligently through a fine program to be able and worthy messengers of the Master. Where in the world will you go to find a life and soul devoted more whole-heartedly first, last and always to Jesus Christ, greater love in the service of Jesus Christ, than that of the Apostle Paul? Where will you go to find a person better prepared to fulfil his mission as a disciple of the Lord, than was Paul? Paul was a Jew; yes, a member of the strictest sect of the Jews ? a Pharisee. He was schooled in the law of Moses. Yet, Paul was more than a Jew; he had more than a Jewish background. Paul was also a Roman; he had the rights of Roman citizenship; he had the Roman view of an eternal empire; he had the Roman concept of a universal kingdom. More than that, Paul was reared in Tarsus, in a great gentile city of Greek learning; therefore, Paul took into the ministry of Christ an understanding of the Gentiles. In Paul, we have this great Hebrew faith, moral courage and earnestness coupled with his vision of the work of God and an understanding of the people to whom he went to give his message. We could well take some time this morning talking about Paul as a teacher. Let me illustrate with one example, You recall the time that 758 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Paul was at Athens; Paul, a man engrossed in the Jewish faith, who had faith in the Jewish God, a personal, living God, trying to teach pagans who had no such concept of God; trying to teach people who believed in many gods, or in abstract definitions of God; trying to reveal to them the true and living God. How was he to do it? He might have simply explained the Jewish God to them. He might have been so engrossed in his own understanding that he would forget the position of the people to whom he spoke; but very wisely and cleverly Paul spoke to his people on the level of experience and understanding at which he found them. May I quote a few verses, to my mind among the most beautiful in Scripture: "Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars' hill, and said, Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too superstitious. "For as I passed by, and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with this" inscription, To the Unknown God. Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you. "God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands; "Neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed any thing, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath, and all things; "And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times appointed, and the bounds of their habitation; "That they should seck the Lord, if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us: "For in him we live, and move, and have our being; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we are also his offspring. ''Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Godhead is like unto gold, or silver, or stone, graven by art and man's device," ?Acts 17:22-29. He did not offend the Athenians in that statement, he talked about their unknown God and made them understand the unknown God as a knowable God, a living God. We might well spend our time this morning talking about Paul's great work as a missionary to the Gentiles. Paul's task was not merely to convert the Gentile world, he had also to convert his fellow disciples to some aspects of the mission of Jesus. Peter and the other disciples who lived in Palestine, and had lived there all their lives, found it ~ difficult to enlarge their vision greatly beyond the scope of the Jewish religion. In the beginning, it seems, they wished to make converts to Christianity first become Jews. In other words, Christianity was to be a Jewish sect. Christianity was to those disciples in Jerusalem, to many of them it seems, nothing more than Judaism plus the resurrection of Christ. To Paul, it was entirely new?a new religion, a new and universal church that included Judaism but was much more. Paul told Peter and the other disciples in Jerusalem that the Gentiles need not become Jews in order to become Christians. Had Paul not had that vision and understanding it is doubtful if Christianity would have become the great universal religion that it did become. I know the Lord may have found other ways, but the fact is, He found it through Paul. We should be grateful to Paul for his great understanding of Christianity. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 759 I WOULD like to spend the rest of the time this morning, not in talking about Paul as a great teacher and not in speaking of him as a missionary to the Gentiles, but in talking about Paul, the apostle to the Gentiles, and his meaning in our lives today and to our work as messengers and disciples of Jesus Christ. In the mission field we teach our converts the first principles of the Gospel. We will not baptize anyone unless he exercises faith and repents of those things which are not in harmony with the Gospel, unless he is willing to be baptized and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. I think that we, as members and workers in the Church often forget that these pre-requisites to entrance to the Church are not merely for the investigator. Faith, repentance, baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost are not just things which precede one's entrance into the Church of Christ; faith, repentance, baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost are the very foundation of our lives as Latter-day Saints. These four principles or ordinances of the Gospel are not dead events in our remote past. Most of us were baptized at the age of eight, and since that time baptism has not always meant a great deal to us. Faith and repentance we think of as preceding baptism, so they sometimes almost vanish from the picture of adulthood. Paul has brought home to me the fact that faith, repentance, baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost, each one of them, can continue as living principles throughout our lives; they receive increased meaning and significance as we grow older. I am going to illustrate the meaning that Paul put into these first principles of the Gospel. Is faith the first principle of the Gospel? Paul had faith before he was baptized into the church, before he had his vision on the road to Damascus. He had faith in the law of Moses, in the words of the prophets; he had faith even that the thing he was doing in persecuting the Christians was the will of God. The first principle of the Gospel is not merely faith. As our fourth Article of Faith states: "We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ;" if any great teacher of religion or any prophet has brought home to us the fact that the first principle of the Gospel is faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, it is certainly Paul. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ became to him something quite different from the faith which he had before. Previously Paul had tried to obey the law of Moses; he had struggled with his consciousness of sin. He had come to realize that no one can completely fulfil the Law, and especially that intricate law of Moses; but when he caught the spirit of Christ he became a new creaiure, he became free from sin, he rose above law. Paul's faith became a glorified faith in Christ. He said this of his relationship to Jesus: "For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, "Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord."?-Romans 8:38-39. We need faith today?whether we 760 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be eight years of age, twenty, thirty, forty or fifty?faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, faith in everything that Jesus Christ stands for in this world of ours. We need to use faith in the principles of love, mercy, forgiveness, integrity and unselfishness. Your very work as Relief Society workers is to exercise faith in these basic principles which we associate with the life of Christ. Although we associate faith with Paul, I think he reveals to us also the meaning of repentance in a very complete way. The first step in repentance, I believe, is not a feeling of remorse and regret, and I give you Paul's life as an example of the beginning of repentance. On the way to Damascus, seeking to get permission to persecute Christians, Paul had a vision. He saw a light and heard a voice which said: "Saul, Saul, why persecutcst thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest." That was the beginning of Paul's repentance. He saw a light, he got a new conception of truth and right, and in the light of that new truth his way of living seemed wrong, and Paul repented. The first step in repentance, I believe, is a new conception of truth and right ? increased knowledge. The only people who have no need of repentance are those who cease to learn, who cease to enlarge their understanding of what the gospel of Jesus Christ means. As teachers, we do not get people to repent by telling them to repent. I believe that people will repent when we show them a' better way of life, a greater truth, in the light of which they will be ashamed of their own way of living as Paul was ashamed of his. Not only did Paul reveal this first important step in repentance but also the completion of it, for the last step in repentance is to right the wrong that one has done? to substitute right living for wrong living, to overcome evil with good. Where do we have a better record of a man who devoted the rest of his life, and gave his life, to make good the wrong he had done against the works of Jesus Christ? I am sure that Stephen who had been stoned with the consent of Paul was not stoned in vain, because of the repentance that Paul wrought. It may seem more difficult to think of baptism, the third principle of our Gospel, as a living principle such as that of repentance, but Paul reveals to us the meaning of baptism in a way that should make it live on in our everyday lives. In the very beginning, after he had had this vision on the road to Damascus, Paul humbled himself and went to one Ananias, a disciple of the Lord, and was baptized. We might think that Paul, having received a vision, haying been called of God as an apostle, would think that it would be unnecessary to humble himself in the waters of baptism, but the record says that he went and was baptized. It is Paul again who portrays to us the meaning of baptism when he compares it with the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. We enter the waters of baptism as the old creature, the sinful but repentant creature, and come up washed and clean, a new creature in Jesus Christ. Not only is baptism a means of entering the Church and a way of gaining remission of sins, but baptism RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 761 is also a covenant. I am going to step ahead into modern revelation and read from the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 20, verse 37: "And again, by way of commandment to the church concerning the manner of baptism?All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the church that they have truly repented of all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into his church." It is a pledge to accept Christ and be His disciple. Every Sunday we have the privilege of renewing that covenant in our Church services. Our sacramental prayer reveals the meaning of the sacrament as a renewal of the baptismal covenant. In that prayer it is written: "That they may eat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his commandments which he has given them; that they may always have his Spirit to be with thein." Every Sunday, as we partake of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, if we will meditate upon the life of the Master, evaluate our own living in the light of His character and love, and have a desire to serve Him, I know that baptism will continue asa living principle of our lives. After the Lord had said to Paul. "Tam Jesus whom thou persecutest," He continues: "But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee; "Delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee, "To open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. "Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision." Over the whole known world Paul declared this covenant that he himself had made with Christ, and his testimony was so strong that king Agrippa said unto Paul: "Almost thou persuadest me to be a Chistian, "And Paul said, I would to God, that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, except these bonds." This illustrates Paul's loyalty to the baptismal covenant. On several occasions, Paul said he was unworthy to be a disciple of Jesus Christ; on other occasions, he said he had done more work than all the rest put together, which shows his great spirit of humility and yet his determination to not only repent but be loyal to the covenant he had made with his Lord. In relation to the fourth principle of the Gospel, the gift of the Holy Ghost, I think Paul reveals to us the great two-fold mission of the Holy Ghost. First of all as a witness that God lives and Jesus Christ is indeed His Son, he writes: "But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man. "For I neither received if of man nei ther was I taught it but by the revelation of Jesus Christ."??-Gal. 1:11-12. "Wherefore I give you to understand, 762 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost."?I Cor. 12:3. Paul certainly received his knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ through the revelations of the Holy Ghost. Paul certainly had complete conviction, absolute assurance that Jesus was indeed the Lord, the Son of God. No only that, but Paul wrote intimately about the gifts of the Holy Spirit. In conclusion, I am going to read to you the very familiar chapter in I Corinthians in which Paul talks about the gifts of the Holy Ghost: "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. "And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all know}- edge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. "And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. "Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, and is not puffed up, "Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; "Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; "Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. "Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. "For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. "But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. "When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things. "For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part but then shall I know even as I am known. "And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity."?-I Cor. 13. Sisters, may we exercise faith in the Lord Jesus Christ such as Paul exercised. May we recognize repentance as a living, continuing, growing principle of our lives. May we be true to the covenant that we made with Christ and our Father in Heaven through baptism, and may we, I pray God, enjoy the assurance enjoyed by Paul through the power of the Holy Ghost, that Jesus Christ is indeed the Son of God. Growing out of that assurance, may we pursue the life of love and service which Paul pursued. THE ESTABLISHMENT OF TESTIMONY Edith P. Backman Former President South African Mission Relief Society HE established testimonies of those dear, faithful, pioneer women, numbering eighteen, who were the charter members of our Relief Society, have been handed down to us as a real inspiration, a true pattern to follow, and a challenge to carry on the great work which they began. The love, devotion, loyalty and untiring service shown by the wonderful leaders and members up to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 763 the present time is proof of their testimonies of the divinity of this work, and their testimonies have led them to great accomplishments. A testimony that God lives, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God is the most valuable possession one can have. Our testimony may be more firmly established by attending meetings, partaking of the sacrament and hearing the testimonies of others. We are told to meet together often in His name. Even though the number may be few. His spirit may be there also. Think of the blessings in store for those who are honest with God in paying tithes and offerings. What a wonderful thing if we, as mothers, could instill the beauty of that principle into the hearts of our children. Thousands of testimonies which we have heard are proof that the faithful tithe payer is blessed an hundredfold. A famed American scientist, after quietly studying and living among the Mormons for. Three summer vacations, said he thought the Relief Society was the premier auxiliary organization in the Church because of its efficiency and effectiveness and the opportunity it offers its members to be of service. Certainly we should take advantage of the opportunity it gives us for development and growth. We should give our best to the work we have been called to do. Magnify it no matter how humble it may be; the Lord will give us more power to achieve in the various fields of our choice only when we have earnestly and diligently used the power we already have. He never calls on us to hold a position that He does not give us strength to carry on if we are faithful. Being of service is the greatest means of bringing joy, happiness, satisfaction and contentment. "When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are in the service of your God." For more than one hundred years, our Church has been sending missionaries into the field to preach the Gospel?the most wonderful missionary system in the world. Missionaries know, as Joseph Smith knew when he started the missionary system, that when the Holy Spirit bears testimony to the inmost soul of man, there is no danger of his being led away by other systems of adverse doctrine. Such a testimony! Four years ago last November we were called to go fifteen thousand miles away to preside over the South African Mission. After making it a matter of prayer, my husband said, "I am going to tell President Grant we will go." We were given blessings and promised health, happiness and success, and that we would return home and find our loved ones well and happy. I thank my Heavenly Father and the Presidency of the Church for giving us the opportunity of going with our children into the mission field to partake of the heavenly spirit existing there. I know this is the true work of God, and nothing else in life matters. It is the only source of true joy and happiness. May our Heavenly Father help us all to appreciate every opportunity given us to be of service to Him, and may we live lives that will be worthy of His wonderful blessings.
Social Service Department Jennie B. Knight, Chairman
SOCIAL SERVICE GOES TO WORK By Rae B. Barker
LIFE, as we know it, is group life. No one is independent of others. The social concept is the group concept. Social service then is service in the interest of the group. Growing out of Relief Society social-consciousness have come some successful, vital community projects which have carried our social service work beyond the class room into practical service projects. In 1934 in a ward social service class an idea took root. Something must be done with children's leisure time. A neighborhood library was a suggested remedy?a simple request it seemed, but actually so complex its realization involved the Parent-Teacher Association, the school board, public library and the city recreation department. The project was engineered by the local Parent-Teacher Association president in conjunction with the Relief Society representative. Together they were a splendid combination of "Noticer", "Specification Writer" and "Finisher"; they could see what needed to be done, how it could be done, and they earnestly set out to do it. They moved carefully, gaining one concession at a time. They convinced all supporting groups that the thing could be done. Contributions ranged from dimes to ten-dollar bills, building space and books (five hundred in one lot) to a budgeted appropriation for a librarian's salary. When in 1936 it was finally accomplished (it now has four successful summers and service to five school districts to its credit), those who had conceived the idea and set it in motion wisely let the open recognition go to the "Finishers". Another remote Relief Society group, a stake board, also did some "noticing" and "finishing" on even a larger scale with a different phase of group service. They recognized a distinct need for more women with nursing experience and for a maternity hospital. From April, 1937, to January, 1939, persistent, intelligent leadership played a winning game. Rebuff and discouragement were turned into success. Stake and county interest was built up until sufficient material support for nursing service and scientific equipment for a maternity delivery room was secured. This was matched with housing facilities and other furnishings by the Relief Society stake board, supplemented by ward Relief Societies and one generous brother. Still in its first year, this six-bed hospital is a source of great satisfaction to the thirty-five mothers already served, to other mothers registered for care in the months ahead, and certainly to those who were courageous enough to start and to finish so fine a social service project.
Family Relations Department Kate M. Barker, Chairman
PURPOSE AND CONDUCT OF COURSE IN "EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE" By Nellie O. Parker
THE course "Education For Family Life" was launched one year ago. While it has not been the entire success we wished it to be, there have been some very gratifying results. We feel that in many cases the aim of the course has not been clearly understood, and difficulties have arisen that need not have been; for example, the conflict with the social service lesson and its class leader. It was never intended that this course conflict with or detract from the social service lesson. The Relief Society program has always been planned to meet the needs and interests of the women and has been expanded to embrace new things as progress in a changing world has demanded. We find that we are not reaching all eligible Latter-day Saint women through our regular courses of study. We are not getting all of our young mothers, many of whom are high school and college graduates. Many of these young women are joining clubs and study groups to the exclusion of Relief Society. To meet this situation, the very popular subject of "Education For Family Life" was chosen as the new course of study. The class procedure was so planned as to give as many opportunities as possible for personal participation and development of leadership ability. Family relations is a very vital and timely subject. Current books and magazines abound with excellent thoughts and discussions concerning it. It is an important subject for everyone, especially parents. It assists them in aiding the family to function as it should, to build character and develop responsible citizens, to make better and happier homes and communities, and to build a true democracy. It is recommended that the course be held on the fourth Tuesday of each month and that it run simultaneously with the social service lesson but not draw from the social service class. It is the consensus of the General Board that if it is impossible to hold the class at this time because of the inconvenience to mothers with young children, another hour be chosen that will allow these women the privilege of attending. The class is not to be held on any of the other Tuesdays; we suggest that four P. M. on the fourth Tuesday may permit mothers to secure older children, home from school, to care for the babies. An evening hour, or Sunday evening after church, may be an advantageous time. It would be convenient for fathers to attend if the classes were held in the evening. An officer of Relief Society should meet with the class; this should not be too great a burden as the class meets but once each month. The class is to be recruited mainly from new women. Seek out and invite all women who should be inter-
766 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ested in the course and who would enjoy taking an active part either as class leader or giving topics and otherwise participating in the discussion. The class should be a means of adding new members to the Relief Society organization. In conformity with our aim, we suggest that the class be allowed as much opportunity for personal initiative and activity as possible within Relief Society regulations and standards. Use your best judgment in guiding the course. It is to be under the supervision of the counselor in charge of education. It is recommended that a committee of three be chosen, with one member as chairman, to serve as program committee, to manage programs and to arrange for those taking part each month. If there is difficulty in securing a different class leader for each lesson, members of the program committee themselves may take turns being class leader, giving other members assignments and allowing considerable time for discussing and solving the family relationship problems. There should be a department in Union meeting to instruct and guide leaders in planning, organizing, and presenting the lesson material. There should be open sessions occasionally to which husbands are invited and opportunity given them to participate in the discussion.
HINTS AND AIDS FOR TEACHING FAMILY RELATIONS By Caroline M. Hendricks
THIS morning I shall discuss three points with regard to the Family Relations class: First, what we are hoping to do?our aim in this department; second, some of the fundamental characteristics of a leader in Family Relations; third, the material in the lessons. In teaching Family Relations, please do not hope to tell people how they can be happy. There is no recipe for happy family life, there is no panacea; all we can hope to do is to help each other to see our problems and analyze them with a degree of intelligent understanding. Family relations is one of the most difficult subjects to teach; yet, it is one of the most satisfactory subjects. Do not attempt to use the number of members in your class as a criterion of your success. If during the entire year you can help one family, you are justified in feeling that your time and efforts have been very well spent. It is worth while for parents to come together and discuss their problems if they do nothing more than learn that their family is not unique in its problems. As long as we have family life, we will have problems to solve, and fundamentally these problems are the same. They differ in degree. One family may have a problem that is more serious than that of someone else in one respect, but the other person will have another problem that seems to balance it. We all have problems, and we always will have problems; what we are attempting to do is to
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 767
help people get an intelligent understanding of family relationships so that they will be able to solve their problems more satisfactorily. You have already heard that class discussion is the most desirable method of handling this subject matter. Encourage members to talk over their problems, but never let them feel that you realize they are talking about their own family problems, even if you know they are. Make discussion absolutely impersonal. You must be careful in the example cases discussed not to betray the confidence of people who probably have come to you to talk over their problems. Be sincere in your work, have faith in family life. Feel in your hearts that the greatest happiness in this world comes from human relationships and that the most important human relationships are those within the family group. Help your class members to realize that the greatest source of happiness and satisfaction in this life comes from satisfactory family relationships. Be vitally interested in your subject. Are you interested in family life? Are you interested in gaining information about it?the best information available? I would suggest that during the winter at least two good books dealing with the family be read. Do not depend entirely upon the material contained in the lesson. Such an important subject as Family Relations requires more information than can possibly be given in the space devoted to these lessons in the Magazine. This material will serve, I hope, to stimulate you; then, you must do research work. If you can make the members of your class feel that you have a fund of information back of what you are saying, it will inspire confidence in you and add greatly to your success. It is essential that any person who serves in the capacity of a leader in family life inspires confidence in people. E. R. Groves' book The American Family, is worthy of your consideration. Groves says that home is not a place, it is a habit of life, and some people have this habit, of course, more fully than do others. What we call "domesticity" is a habit that has come forth from associations in our former family experience. If we have this habit of home, this habit of domesticity, we have it as a result of our earlier life. Domestic experience is not attained by the power of the will but it must come through experience and growth. Help these young mothers, these young married people, to realize that we all have problems when we start out, and that living together in the family is simply an experience; emphasize the fact that there can be no happiness without growth and development. Help them to appreciate the seriousness of domestic failure; it influences throughout life every person who is a part of that family group. I cannot tell you where you can find well written material on the first lesson, which deals with the family council, but I do know of many families who have practiced the family council plan, and it has been their salvation. I hope you will discuss the importance of coming together in family life and its value in binding people together within the family. Use your own ideas and your own initiative and
768 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
work them into the ideas contained in the outlined lessons. The second lesson deals with the handling of family finances. Stress the point that whatever plan the family decides upon must be agreeable to both mates. There must be agreement as to the handling of family finances. I wish to stress again the importance of faith in family life as the foundation of success in your work. Our major aim is to make the home a refuge, a place of peace and comfort where every individual has security, love and affection; a place where those who are weary and tired after the day's work will find peace and rest. "It is not life that matters," says Hornell Hart, "it is the courage you bring to it." There is no problem that is too difficult for the individual if that individual has the necessary courage with which to meet that problem. This is the message we have for our young people who are beginning to found their homes during this very difficult period of time.
Officers Meeting
ADDRESS By William E. Ryberg Member of Church Welfare Committee
I SINCERELY appreciate the honor of representing the Church Welfare Committee at this meeting. As long as I can remember, one of the most impressive things in my life, and one from which I received great inspiration, was the work of Relief Society as expressed in my own mother. I well remember that through the most depressing periods of our early life a consoling thing which seemed to hold our family together was the great confidence and the firm testimony of my mother in the truth of the church to which we belonged, and I am confident this testimony was largely influenced by her activities in Relief Society. When my mother approached her eightieth birthday, she was still in the service of Relief Society, still making her calls in the district allotted to her. I recognize that today I am speaking to a group of sisters to whom Church Welfare is not at all new. The fundamental principles of the Relief Society, as I understand them, are exactly the ideals which Church Welfare is attempting to put into actual practice. If there is anything new to Church Welfare, which the Relief Society does not understand, it can only be that their service has been augmented by the service of certain brethren who have been called to assist in solving the economic problems and the distress of those who are unfortunate in a period of time when conditions are too serious for any one unit of the Church to handle alone.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 769
Sister Robison has asked what the Relief Society can do, as a body, to further the plans of the Church Welfare Program. I am thoroughly convinced that without the assistance of Relief Society, the Church Welfare Program cannot be successfully consummated. There is no organization in the Church which has the ability and which has had the experience in relief work that the Relief Society has had. The Relief Society does not only hold and maintain the admiration, respect, love and esteem of members of the Church, but throughout the world the influence of this organization is known. Therefore, there is no question in my mind but that the ultimate success of the Church Welfare Program will be measured in terms of the amount of activity into which the leaders of the Church bring the Relief Society. A very important factor in the success of the Program, and one, I believe, that lies directly within the hands of the members of the Relief Society, is the influence of women. If we were to analyze the underlying reasons for the success of men who have contributed to the world in the fields of science, literature, social service, or any phase of public life, we would find somewhere the inspiration of a splendid woman. In the totalitarian or dictatorship countries, the influence of womanhood is not present, while in the democracies, the place of women in the affairs of the state is almost equal to that of men. Men should recognize the influence for good exerted by women. I believe the Relief Society can influence the brethren to fulfill their obligations as members of the Priesthood. There are many of us who are willing to accept high positions of honor and responsibility in the Church without accepting the actual work and effort which go with these honors. A man who accepts a position of responsibility and honor and who does not fulfill the obligations of that honor is not only unfaithful to the Church but is unfaithful to that woman whom he admires most and also to himself. One of our first considerations should be the temporal welfare of our less fortunate brethren. I do not think it is quite consistent for our Church to pose as the spiritual savior of mankind if it cannot, here in this world, help in the temporal salvation of the less fortunate. Remember, sisters, there is no other place in all the world which is as blessed as is our own country. We should be grateful that we live in a country which is so blessed. The majority of Church members are not more than three generations away from the war-torn European countries, and the Gospel message is the thing that brought our grandparents here. Is it then too much that you sisters use your influence to help the brethren appreciate the blessings and recognize the obligations which are theirs as members of this Church? Before I close, I want to answer two other questions that were propounded to me: What can the Relief Society do in furnishing supplies from the efforts of their own auxiliary organization for the Church Welfare Program, and how may credits be received? In the first instance, the Relief Society presidency of any ward should contact the bishop and dis-
770 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
cuss with him first of all what articles are required in that particular ward, or what that particular ward might profitably contribute to the stake, and from the stake to the region. If the Relief Society in that ward has surplus commodities of any type, which are also surplus in the stake, there is no reason why these cannot be contributed to the region. There is no reason why that particular Relief Society cannot receive credit for that contribution, and there is no reason why they should not draw from the region other needed articles up to the amount of the credit. The other question is: How can Relief Society develop new projects in their own local ward units, and from what source can the money be obtained? The Relief Society stake president knows, or should know, the things which are surplus in the region, and the things which the region is in need of. In the event a program is developed in a stake or ward to supply these shortages, the funds naturally come from the bishop. The bishop can in turn take his funds from the fast offerings. In the event the fast offerings in his ward are not sufficient for this purpose, he has the right to request funds from the stake fast offerings. In the event the fast offerings from the stake are not sufficient, he has the right to request funds from the region. I think it is purely within the right of the president of a local unit to inform her bishop if she knows of any worthy members of the Church within her ward who are suffering. I think if the Bishop does not respond after the information is given to him, she should report the condition to her stake president. If it is not then corrected, the stake president should report it to a higher source. It is not human, it is inhuman, to allow people to suffer, and I think it is definitely the responsibility of the Relief Society to see that no such conditions occur. The following statement was made to me at the close of a certain meeting: "Brother Ryberg, I know that I can get assistance from the ward if I only dared ask, but I would rather be put against a wall and shot than to go through the humiliation that I would have to go through in order to get that assistance. My business would immediately become the business of the entire ward." That is tragic, sisters, and I have enough confidence in the rank and file of the Relief Society to believe that such situations exist only in a minority of cases. When a member of the Church comes to any person with authority in the Church and confesses the problems which are bearing him down, the information given is confidential, and the person who gives it has the right to expect that it will be kept in strictest confidence. The question has been asked: What part does the Relief Society play with reference to the Priesthood? Every Friday morning the General Committee meets with the First Presidency, a representative of the Presiding Bishopric, a representative of the Council of the Twelve, a representative of the First Council of Seventy, and a representative of the General Board of Relief Society. No step is taken in the Church Welfare Program, as related to the Relief
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 771
Society, without the General Board first being consulted. Now that should hold true throughout the entire Program. There is a definite place for the Relief Society in the ward set-up, in the stake set-up, and in the regional set-up. If the First Presidency, the Presiding Bishopric, the Council of the Twelve, the First Council of Seventy and the General Committee feel that the advice and counsel of the sisters of the General Board is necessary, surely the ward units and stake units should recognize that fact in their deliberations. If there is any place in a ward, stake or region in the Church where this is being overlooked, I am of the opinion that the Church Welfare Program is not particularly successful. In the event this condition exists in your stake or ward, you sisters holding responsible positions should report it to your stake president, and failing there, to your general officers. When it is reported to them, I am sure they will report it at the council meeting on Friday morning. I am happy to have been with you this morning, and have attempted to explain some things which seem to have been in question.
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS By President Louise Y. Robison
WE are very happy to meet with you this morning under such favorable conditions, to discuss problems of common interest. New Books: I should like to call your attention to some new books which are of special interest to Latter-day Saints. Brother George D. Pyper has just published a volume entitled The Story of Our Hymns, which presents in his delightful style the stories of our Latter-day Saint hymns. Sister Janet Bingham Dee of the Primary General Board has published a valuable and beautifully illustrated book, A Voice From The Dust, which presents the story and doctrine contained in the Book of Mormon in a form easily read. This publication should result in a greater understanding of the Book of Mormon. We unhesitatingly recommend both books to you. The Relief Society Song Book will soon be ready. It will be a handy, loose-leaf style so that when open it will lie perfectly flat. The words and music are photographic, making it very easily read. We are striving to keep the price of the book as low as possible. The stakes will be notified as soon as the book is ready. Last year some very excellent novels were used in our Literature course. The Deseret Book Company still has a number of these books on hand, which can be purchased at a nominal price. We suggest them as very appropriate Christmas gifts. Pre-natal Care: There are still women in our Society who do not know where to obtain information on pre-natal care. Splendid material may be secured by writing to your state board of health. Stake presidents kindly notify the sisters. Child Health: We have a great
772 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
responsibility in safeguarding the health of our children. Children with weak bodies grow up greatly handicapped. In a school district within one hundred miles of Salt Lake City, an examination of 338 pre-school children revealed only 78 with teeth in normal condition? these, of course, were baby teeth. An examination of 476 sixth-grade children?an eleven-year-old group with permanent teeth?revealed only 60 with teeth in good condition. The other day I heard of a man who earns $180 per month. An examination of the teeth of his five children revealed that each child had more than five cavities. The proper care of children's teeth may well be a project for Relief Society. This does not mean we are to pay for the dental care of all children, but rather that we impress mothers with the importance of good teeth and stimulate them to make use of the opportunities available to have teeth examined and properly cared for. Of course, there are families in the Church who have difficulty in supplying the basic necessities of life for children, and for this reason teeth are neglected. In such cases, tide them over. Let them feel it is their responsibility as far as possible to carry the expense of corrective work, but arrange for them to pay a little down and meet the balance as they best can. Where families positively cannot meet the expense themselves and where the ward and stake are unable to do so, call on the General Board. This problem is of sufficient importance to attract community interest. I believe there are doctors, city and county commissioners, and other groups who would aid in this important welfare program. Children must not go through life handicapped because of the small amount of money necessary to insure good teeth. Relief Society Funds and The Ward Budget: The Presiding Bishopric have instituted ward budgets throughout the Church. The Relief Society heartily approves of the principle of the budget. The budget plan has been clearly set forth in the August, 1939, issue of Progress of the Church, published by the Presiding Bishopric and sent to all bishops. We suggest that Relief Society presidents ask the bishops to permit them to read this. Due to the nature of Relief Society work, it is deemed advisable that there be certain modifications in the application of the budget plan with regard to Relief Society funds. The charity fund is not included in the budget. This fund is created from collections received by the visiting teachers and is used only for the purpose indicated by its name. Membership dues are not included; we believe that when women make the effort to pay their own annual dues they appreciate their membership more. The general fund, which is a contingent or operating fund of the Organization, has in the past been created by the industry of the women. It has been used for the purchase of textbooks, record books and miscellaneous things. Now, in wards operating on the budget plan, the general fund may be allowed Relief Society from the ward budget, just as other auxiliaries receive their operating fund. To determine the amount necessary, we recommend
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 773
that expenses incurred during the past three years be averaged and the amount of this average be requested of the bishop when the ward budget is set up. Do not draw on the bishopric for any more than is absolutely necessary. If you have available funds, use these before drawing on the ward budget. These rulings may change in the future, but for the present this is our plan. Even though a ward is on a budget, we can see no reason why Relief Society should not hold a bazaar to display useful handmade articles and to encourage people to make beautiful things. We cannot see any possible objection to the sale of these articles, but there should be no admission fee charged. We trust Relief Society will do everything within its power to aid the bishop in making the budget plan succeed. Relief Society Singing Mothers: The question has been asked whether the Relief Society Singing Mothers from all over the Church will again be invited to sing at April Conference, 1940. The plan now is to concentrate efforts on a glorious centennial in 1942. So we ask the Singing Mothers to perfect themselves and sing in the stakes and wards, but the Augmented Chorus will not be assembled again until 1942. We hope that by next April we will be prepared to announce the details of the program for our hundredth anniversary. Family Relations: Sound family relationships are of vital importance. The course "Education for Family Life" has been introduced into the Relief Society program to help young mothers better understand and meet the problems of family life. Magazine Drive: We are delighted with the work of our Magazine representatives. Most of the stakes are now engaged in the Drive and excellent results are being obtained. Do not feel that people are too poor to subscribe; those who have the least money are in many cases our most faithful subscribers. Class Leaders: Before calling any person to a position in Relief Society, in either ward or stake capacity, advise her of the full requirements of the position. Attendance of class leaders at Union meeting is almost a necessity. There may occasionally be a woman who is able to render fine service to Relief Society and thus tie herself to the Church, yet, because of being in school or at business, is unable to attend Union meeting. Such cases, however, are rare. Before asking women to accept positions, ask them if they have time to attend Union meeting. Church Beautification: Church beautification, and that also includes home beautification, can be carried out better with the women interested than in any other way. Encourage the sisters to plant gardens, shrubs and trees. A fine practice is to plant a tree in honor of a birthday or some other important event. I heard an Idaho man say that the thing which made him want to go back to his home in the East was a great big oak tree that had been planted in his honor when he was born. That tree tied him to the East even more than did the people. There is sentiment in tree planting. Encourage the sisters to see that ward chapels are kept clean, that
774 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
children are taught not to throw papers and other things about meeting house grounds. Nutrition: The following question has been asked: "Is the nutrition class, held on Work and Business day, optional with the wards?" We refer you to the following ruling in the May, 1938, issue of the Relief Society Magazine, page 334: "The General Board suggests that the use of this material (nutrition) be optional in the wards and may be used in connection with the traditional activities of the day (work and business)." However, need should determine the advisability of having the course. If there is one woman in your ward who needs help, there is no question but that the class should be held. Raising Funds For New Chapels: Help the bishops all you can, but it is not the ward Relief Society president's responsibility to raise funds for new chapels. Mormon Handicraft: Mormon Handicraft sales have increased at least one-third this year. We appreciate the cooperation of the local sisters as well as the fine support of the advisory committee. Articles received have been of higher standard ?fewer have been returned. We still need inexpensive articles but well made and attractive. We are still overstocked with some articles, so please write to us before the women go to the expense of making expensive things, such as bedspreads, and ascertain whether or not there is apt to be a sale for these articles. Membership dues are from January to January and are $1 a year for the ward or for an individual membership of anyone not a member of the Relief Society. Please check up and see if any of your women are depending upon the ward to take a membership. Literature Course: Due to present international trouble, it has been deemed advisable to change the third book in the Literature course. A new book will be substituted for the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. While the Four Horsemen is a great novel, presenting a vivid picture of the horrors of war, we believe that a more cheerful book should be used. Refreshments on Work and Business Day: We have found that some wards are going rather to the extreme in serving refreshments on Work and Business day. Serve light refreshments occasionally; they make for sociability, and Work and Business day is the social day in Relief Society, but do not make this a burden. Visiting Teachers: The following new ruling has been made: When a reorganization of Relief Society takes place in the ward, all visiting teachers are to be released when the president is released. In many wards the great number of inactive visiting teachers has become a burden. In reorganizing the visiting teachers, do not overlook any sister who has rendered good service. Be prayerful about making your new selections. In some way, try to honor those who have given faithful service over a long period of years. The question has been asked: Should non-members of the Church serve as visiting teachers? Generally speaking, we say no. There is, of course, an occasional exception. For example, in the mission field where
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 775
they are greatly handicapped for workers, we may find a woman who is genuinely converted but for some good reason has not yet joined the Church. This sister might reasonably be used. But in our wards, let us use Latter-day Saint women who understand the principles of the Gospel to bear the Relief Society message to the homes. We request that visiting teachers be not asked to sell books or tickets for any organization or cause, including Relief Society. We do not want them to act as Magazine agents when making their regular visits. We also request that they be not used as an advertising medium for any cause, unless it be some special Relief Society activity. The teachers may carry such an announcement, but do not have them go as solicitors. Visiting teachers are to go with a spiritual message for the purpose of uplifting the family.
First General Session
RELIEF SOCIETY WELFARE WORK By Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
IT is interesting as well as inspirational for us to look back and recount the many achievements of Relief Society women of the past in the field of human welfare, and we love to do this. But it is equally interesting as well as gratifying to observe the fine work being done by Relief Society women of today in this same field. ? The General Board appreciates your interest in the Church Welfare Program with which we are cooperating and to which we are devoted, and we commend you dear sisters for your efforts in this great undertaking?for the hours and days you have given to the cause. We appreciate also your ready attention to cases of need in your own wards. In all of our welfare work I am sure we are keeping in mind our ideal of helping people to help themselves and of trying to provide opportunity for them to do this. We appreciate your work in the interest of health and maternity welfare; in the general and special clinics you are aiding, and in the follow-up work you are doing in connection with them. We know that through your faithful efforts many children have been able to enter school this fall physically fit. But we are wondering if all the defects discovered were looked after or corrected. We are wondering if there are children in your communities who still have diseased tonsils and bad teeth, eyes that need glasses, ears that need attention, with apparently no one able to do anything about it. And what about malnutrition? We are hoping that our special nutrition work for this year will bear good fruit in this direction. We are mindful of the fact that last year you spent 33,000 days in volunteer nursing of the sick, and that you made 208,000 comforting and helpful visits to the sick, home-
776 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
bound and handicapped. Also, that the visiting teachers made over one million friendly family visits. We appreciate your interest and activity in the campaign of the Church for the non-use of liquor and tobacco and thus for the protection of our children from these devastating poisons. Education and prevention in this matter, as you know, are especially important. The first cigarette is, for the youth, the easiest to refuse; the first drink, the easiest to pass up. When once a young person becomes a cigarette addict, an alcoholic or a drug addict, you who have had experience in case work know that you have a real problem and a heartbreaking situation. It is gratifying to know that we are united in our stand for total abstinence in these things. In Utah, California and probably in many other states, the schools have a definite program for teaching the effects of alcohol, tobacco and other narcotic drugs. Let us find out what these programs are and support them. Let us ask what each of our schools is doing in this respect. Dr. Skidmore, State Superintendent of Public Instruction in Utah, says: "The responsibility of carrying on this particular program for the good of our young people rests largely with the school executives but can not be successful unless it has the backing of communities, churches, all public-spirited organizations and the best citizens of the State." I recently read a stimulating article by Charles Longacre, Secretary of the American Temperance Association, on the subject, "Who Has A Right To Drink?" Riding on a railroad train recently was a group of men discussing the futility of laws restricting the right to drink intoxicating liquor. The idea prevailed that all men have a right to drink, the same as the right to eat; that to attempt to regulate drinking is an interference with a man's personal liberties. The conversation was interrupted by a passenger who drew near the group and asked this question, "Do you believe that the engineer and the train crew that operate this train should enjoy the liberty to drink intoxicating beverages?" The unanimous reply was, "No". He then asked why these should be discriminated against and denied this right and this freedom. The verdict was that the law should require these men to be sober so as not to endanger the lives of passengers on the train. Then there was a question about air pilots, with the same conclusion. It was then computed that there are 60,000 railroad engineers in the United States, all of whom should not be allowed this freedom and right. It was also computed that besides the 60,000 railroad engineers, there are about 35,000,000 licensed automobile engineers who are entrusted with high-powered gasoline engines on the public highways, where there are no rails, no guards and no signals. The question was asked, "Is it not necessary that these latter should be required to be sober as well as the railroad engineers?" Again the answer was, "Yes". So we might go on, says the author, and ask about drunken pedestrians walking in front of the automobiles and causing accidents, and about the parents of in-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 777
nocent little children who dethrone their reason and impair their good judgment by the use of intoxicating liquor. Personal liberty surely cannot in justice infringe upon the rightful liberty and freedom of others. Even "wets" are agreed that the sale of adulterated foods that are injurious to health should be prohibited as well as that dangerous drugs and firearms should be restricted. The author then asks, "Who has a right to drink?" In the last paragraph of his article he sums up as follows: "Who has a right to drink? Do I as a prospective father or you as a prospective mother have a right to drink alcoholic beverages, or use cocaine or marihuana when science tells me that my offspring will have to suffer the blight and curse of both mental and physical defects for it?... No father has a right to come home staggering and jabbering and cursing and abusing his wife and children because of drink. No mother has a right to bring shame and disgrace and a handicap upon her offspring because of drink. No son or daughter has a right to bring reproach and dishonor and ingratitude upon an upright and respectable father and mother because of drink. No citizen has a right to make a pauper out of himself, to be supported by society because of drink. Any nation that debauches and corrupts its youth through the curse of drink destroys its own future and commits national suicide." WE appreciate your interest in homemaking and in the building up of stable family life. We are a family agency. We believe in the family. We have faith in the family. We feel that the most vital concern of society should be the cultivation and conservation of the family and its restoration and rehabilitation where necessary. In recent years the family has been the subject of much discussion and criticism. Critics representing the most radical group contend that the maintenance of family life is surely threatened. It is most heartening to learn, from a survey made recently at the University of Minnesota, of the fine ideals held by many young people today. A long questionnaire was sent out to 1600 Minnesota alumni, asking about the things they thought most important and most desirable. The first five choices of things the men most wanted were: A happy married life, financial success, security for old age, a comfortable standard of living, and making a good home. The first five things women most wanted were: A happy married life, a comfortable standard of living, making a good home, children they could be proud of, and travel. It will be noted that the first choice of both men and women was a happy married life, and the fifth choice of the men and the third of the women was "making a good home". This is surely encouraging in this day of easy divorce. We commend Relief Society women for their devotion to the Gospel and its teachings. In this day of world confusion, we are challenged as are all other Christian groups to preserve and maintain the ethical, moral and religious standards and ideals set up by the Master. Let us dedicate ourselves to these ideals. It is evident that there is 778 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE need to work not only for economic recovery and for health, but also for moral and spiritual recovery?for moral and spiritual rearmament. The guiding power of religion and spirituality is desperately needed in the world today. May this be our first interest is my earnest prayer. A ae Second General Session ADDRESS By Mrs. Vincent Hilles Ober President, National Federation of Music Clubs THE National Federation of Music Clubs is complimented in having a place on the program of the Relief Society Conference. We are proud, with you, of the Singing Mothers. The National Federation of Music Clubs is better and stronger because of the membership maintained in it by the Singing Mothers of the Relief Society. America's foundations were laid 332 years ago?quite recently in contrast to those of Europe, and along very different lines. In a country which has carried forward the greatest and the most successful experiment in democracy which the world has known to date, it is important to preserve our freedom of musical expression along with our freedom of speech and religion. The music of the United States should be a democratic music, and music should be used as a means of building and msuring the freedom of American institutions. Through music we can do much to integrate nationalities within our country, working toward the ideal of developing life so that it will include a pattern of peace, of brotherhood, of harmony and understanding, of sympathy, of nobleness with reference to humanity as our keynote. Music has a greater mission than to merely create a friendly reaction among individuals, or furnish entertainment; it can be a great influence for good in the world, because people who are engaged in cultural development have no time for evil planning. In these days of misunderstanding and friction, we pray for the peaceful influence of the gospel of music, that nations and neighbors may be interpreted to each other. Weare not a singing nation. We would be a more confident nation if we sang together. The organization which I represent, the National Federation of Music Clubs, has functioned for over forty-one years in making Ametica more musical. Our members?men and women, boys and gitls?in their club life have accomplished a record of which we are. Proud. We work with children, and last year we had over eight thousand participate in our contests. We support young artists, giving them engagements. We inspire the composer and recognize compositions of value. We create scholarship funds for the underprivileged, talented RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 779 child. In 47 countries, through our international music clubs, the compositions of American composers have been presented. We have established a MacDowell Fellowship for the use of the American composer. We are collecting music and sending it to stricken China. We are going to a conference called by the Secretary of State in the interest of maintaining happy and friendly relations between the Americas. We know of the interpretative powers of music between nations; we are at this time emphasizing sending music abroad. Last week we sent a large supply of music to Belgium, Sweden and Scotland. May our foundations in the United States be strengthened by a high purpose for the support of all things good! ADDRESS; By President Louise Y. Robison N the early part of this year it was my privilege to attend a conference held in the White House. I wish you might have the thrill which came to me the day I spent there. It was not the beautiful building, it was not even the thought that presidents or officers of our government lived there, although I honor these men in their positions. It was something more than that; it was my country, and it stood for opportunity and the fine things of life which it gives to us just to the extent that we are prepared to receive them. I was a bit early for the conference, possibly twenty minutes before the opening of the meeting. I was so glad that I had a few minutes to think, and I thanked God that I could say, "This is my country," and it is my country because my parents accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ and came to this land. My parents were English-born. I was never more thankful for them, that they were the type who heard the voice of the Shepherd through His servants when he called them to gather to this land, described by the prophets in the Book of Mormon as a land choice above all other lands. There were representatives from Alaska, Hawaii, Porto Rico, as well as from every state in the Union except two in attendance at the conference. It was interesting to sec how earnestly the subject of character education for our children was approached and how sincerely ways and means of accomplishing this were sought. I was interested in the address of Mr. Homer Folks. I will read just a bit of his address to let you see, as I do now, the possibility of every little child, whether it be your child or another person's, if properly cared for. Sister Amy W., Evans, a former member of our General Board, used to say that good social work, good community service, means that the community gives to every child the same attention that one would want given to his own child. The following paragraph from Homer Folks implies the wonderful opportunities there are for children. He said: "In planning for this 1939 conference, we have been looking ahead, 780 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not to 1940, but to 1980 or thereabouts. Somewhere within these United States, within the past few years, was born a child who will be elected in 1980 to the most responsible office in the world, whose incumbent lives here. We cannot guess his name or whereabouts. He may come from any place and from any social or economic group. He may now be in the home of one of the soft-coal miners, or in the family of a sharecropper, or quite possibly in the home of one of the unemployed, or in a family migrating from the Dust Bowl, or in a college professor's family, or he may be surrounded with every facility, convenience, and protection which money can buy. Very likely his home is on a farm. Even Dr. Gallup with his poll can give us no light on this problem." Children born in any of these situations can become leaders in this great country of ours. Mr. Folks later said that even though a child does not become President, there are hundreds of governors, mayors and lawmakers needed. In our Church think of the number of bishops, stake presidents and apostles needed, as well as the great office of president of the Church. What wonderful opportunities there are for children! But there are other things that must also be given them. Of course, attention was called to their need for good homes, food and medical help, but a fine Catholic Priest said, "Character, more than brains and brawn, is the essential for successful living and for an ordered society. To build character, youth must be taught the art of right thinking and the science of self-control." Speaking further, he said: "Man or child cannot do without absolutes; namely, the existence of God, the eternal and immutable principles of tight and wrong, and the inherent dignity of man." WHEN I heard these things, of course my mind turned to the Relief Society. What is Relief Society doing to uphold these standards and meet these needs? In listening to Sister Lyman and Sister Barker as they told of the real work we are doing, I realized that we have a program that will take care of every one of these needs. Statistics given me by a school nurse from a community within one hundred miles of Salt Lake City reveal that out of 476 examinations of sixth grade children, which means children about eleven years old who have their permanent teeth, only 60 children's teeth were in good condition. Now, much depends upon Relief Society. We have the means, we have the provisions for caring for these things. No matter how fine the spirit of a child or how hard he tries, he is handicapped when grown to manhood if he has a weak body. So we must build up the bodies of children and also direct them so they will live in accordance with the principles that have been given us. The thing that pleases me in contemplating all of this is that we were told to do these things by a prophet of God, a man whom God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ spoke to and told of the needs of the people not only a hundred years ago, but right today. Sisters of the Relief Society, see where you can put these things into practice. It was the opinion of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 781 conference held in the White House that the home, the school and the church are responsible for those things which they deemed even more essential than material things ?the emotional and religious training that will result in good characters. I pray my Heavenly Father that He will bless you wonderful women, that He will go with you to your homes and to your groups, and that you will have the spirit which we have had in this conference. Yesterday was marvelous; there were so many splertdid instructions?read them in your Magazine. I think a very interesting thing is revealed in the life of the Savior, the Son of God. He had power to call legions to His command, but when that terrible hour came and He knew He had to pass through a terrible ordeal, the Bible tells us in Matthew that He went to Gethsemane with His disciples and He was sorrowful, and He said to his friends Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, "Tarry ye here, and watch with me." He was sorrowful unto death, and while He prayed they slept, and when He came to them, He said, "What, could ye not watch with me one hour?" I wonder if there is any one here who does not need the human touch, who does not, through the Relief Society, have the opportunity of watching the one hour with those who are bearing heavy burdens! Look after those who have heavy burdens. You have been given that privilege, you can comfort and bless souls. May God help you that you may see how to do it, and may you have His spirit to lead you I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.  Notice: Conference Addresses N the interest of time and wide distribution, it has been deemed advisable to publish Relief Society Conference Addresses in the Relief Society Magazine rather than in a special Conference pamphlet. The Address by President David O. McKay will appear in full in a later issue of the Magazine. Digests of the following will also appear: "Lesson Objectives"?Mark K. Allen "Good Reading?Joan of Arc", Rosannah C. Irvine "Les Miserables", Belle S. Spafford "Report of Family Relations Work in Stakes", Annie M. Farr, Smithfield Stake, Emma G. Phillips, Liberty Stake "Educational Work of the Relief Society", Counselor Kate M. Barker DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 5 Saul's Vision and HELPFUL REFERENCES F. W. Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, chs. X, XI. A. T. Robertson, Epochs in the Life of Paul, pp. 39-102. B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, PP: 43?73- J. P. Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, pp. 28-52. F. A. Spencer, Beyond Damascus, chs. XI, XII. SAUL, SAUL, WHY PERSECUTEST THOU ME?" ? Saul's zeal and ability made him the scourge of the early Christians. He went from house to house ferreting out men and women who were members of the accursed society that proclaimed allegiance to Jesus, the arisen Messiah. Saul must have satisfied himself in time that the threat of a flourishing Christian community in Jerusalem was past, for we next find him seeking another field of labor. "And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest, and desired of him. Letters to Damascus, to the synagogues, that if he found any of this Way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem." (Acts 9:1, 2.)