Social Service Lesson 5 How To Sell The Gospel I. WHY IS IT IMPORTANT TO SELL THE GOSPEL? We who are convinced of the truthfulness of the Gospel often fail to see why other people do not feel as we do about it. We are convinced that the "Lord hath spoken" and that the world should be warned. But let us not overlook the fact that we must "sell" the idea to the world that the Gospel has been restored. To say the "Lord hath spoken again" does not arouse much interest in most people outside the Church today. We live in such a practical age that everyone wants to be "shown". Our own members are also affected by this spirit of the times. To keep our own members active we must continually "sell" the Gospel to them bydemonstrating concretely how it meets the fundamental wants of mankind. The use of commands and authority to keep people active in the Church is effective only with certain dispositions. There are other dispositions who can be stimulated only through showing them how the Church serves its members. The word of the Lord must be presented in such a way that the people will want to accept it. The Latter-day Saint message is a bold one and requires great skill in presenting it if it is to be accepted. A wise approach to those we would teach or convert is first to try to understand the person, all of his interests, enthusiasms, and the calibre of his intelligence and the language in which he thinks. We then should present aspects of our message that will appeal to him, that will lead him to ask for more information. One wonders if an intelligent approach to prospective converts, along the line of attack just mentioned, will not appeal to a distinctly different type of people than does the older method of blunt, dogmatic, and authoritative preaching. II. WHAT DO PEOPLE WANT FROM A RELIGION? Formerly we were taught that we have a definite "instinct" for religion which leads everyone to search out God some time in his life. Newer thought on this subject contends that the "mainsprings" back of religious behavior are as numerous and complicated as the motives behind any other phase of life. Some people participate in the Church as a result of one set of motives while others RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 791 are driven by distinctly different ones. There is still considerable difference of opinion as to what are the principal wants back of our participation in the Church. The wants named here should not be considered the only ones. They are, however, some of those most commonly found. A sense of security is the goal toward which much of our daily striving is directed. We all strongly want to feel secure in the love of our family, secure in our homes, secure financially, and secure in the favor of God. Uncertainty as to what comes after death, whether loved ones survive death, and whether righteousness will prevail in eternity?these uncertainties are removed by faith. The feeling that we are "on the Lord's side" is a great satisfaction in itself during these troublous days of world upheaval. Our faith that through Jesus all shall live again makes us feel secure that we are an eternal part of the great scheme of things. People with no faith feel insecure because their lives have no plan with which to anchor themselves. This is the sense of security which faith gives us. Spirituality, or a deep interest in the theological questions of the origin and destiny of the spirit of man, might be classed as an important want or need in many people. The appeal to spirituality has force with certain temperaments, while with others it seems to have little influence. The Gospel answers perplexing questions of a spiritual nature so adequately that often this appeal is one of the strongest that can be used in influencing people to participate in the Church. On the other hand, we should perhaps admit that wants that are somewhat removed from spiritual questions also are satisfied by Church work. For example, sociability (formerly called gregariousness) probably brings many people into Church activities. In small communities the Church is frequently the center of social life, as it should be. Interest in the social activities may lead to interest in the more spiritual mission of the Church. If we could but say, "Come along, let's go to Church?everybody will be there," we would be appealing to the want for sociability. Friendship with people who have faith makes us want to have faith, too. When several of our respected friends say, "I believe Dr. X is a good doctor," we fall in line and believe so, too. Likewise, if our closest friends are saying, "I believe a person is happier to be doing something in the Church," we are inclined to think so too. Closely related to the want for sociability is the want for social approval. This want may be satisfied in various ways through the Church. Good standing in the Church is itself a mark of social approval and lends prestige to a person in his other social relations, barring apparent hypocrisy. The feats of daring, sacrifice and endurance of our Pioneers are admired and, therefore, interesting to so-called "tougher-minded" people who are little interested in other phases of the Church. A certain amount of social approval is reflected to the Church in general because of the admiration shown for the physical courage of the Pioneers and colonizers of our early history. Perhaps we should point out here that the want for social approval in 792 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some cases is the only reason some people participate in the Church. In all teaching we should attempt to lead people to satisfy not one want but many, otherwise we should perhaps question their genuine faith in the Gospel as a whole. The want for love or affection is also of deep importance in motivating faith. Love of our families and friends makes us want to be united for all time. The teachings of the Church regarding the sanctity of the home are aimed at preserving love and good will in this life as well as in the hereafter. If we can show anyone who is not enjoying the benefits of the Church that love and home are more secure under the influence of our religious faith, we have made an appeal that touches close to the heart and which is likely to bring a favorable response to our message. The want to be a leader is very strong in many people, although not a universal want with all types of personalities. The organization units of the Church permit almost everyone who so desires to express his leadership. An opportunity to reach some position of leadership is the promise to all who will be genuinely faithful in performing their duties and meeting their obligations. A desire or want to be of service is closely related to the want for leadership and is a strong motive in our finest members. Some people are happy only when they are doing something for someone else. In fact, one of the aims of the Church is to permit its members to serve through the various organizations with their varied activities. A person's character grows by serving, and this growth gives a person a pleasant feeling of self-regard which in turn is also a strong incentive to service. The Relief Society perhaps satisfies more completely the desire to serve than any other organization. III. THE ART OF TEACHING. Now that we have recognized wants as the starting point in teaching and missionary work, a few suggestions are in order as to how wants may be utilized. In a scripture-reading age, an appeal was generally made through the authority of scriptural citations. We thus, by the use of authority, attempted to shift to our way of thinking a solution of wants that had already been found through some other religion. This method was very successful in many cases, and still is with people who follow this line of thinking. (For example, see Ben E. Rich's Mr. Durant of Salt Lake City.) But now we more often find it necessary to establish religion itself as a means of solving the problems of human wants. To do this the appeal to scriptural authority is of little value. We must now appeal to human wants themselves. Wants are often not clearly defined in our prospective convert's mind, in which case our task is to define the want or to arouse a new one. Some people are so bent on satisfying one or two major wants? such as financial gain and social prestige?that they are not aware of the need for security in a spiritual sense, or the need for safeguarding spiritual and family relationships. We as teachers may find it necessary to arouse these spiritual wants so that our message will have an appeal, be- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 793 cause where there is no desire there is no interest in our message. Assuming that we have found or created wants in other people, we must carefully show that what we have to offer through the Church is an adequate solution to those wants. Here again we must guard against dogmatism; we must refrain from promising more than the person is likely to find. If our claims are overstated, our investigator is likely to be disappointed, and his reaction will be like that of a person who has been "oversold" on some article of merchandise and then disappointed. We should be interested in winning people to a better way of life through the Church, not simply toa period of great enthusiasm followed by sudden cooling off. Proper "follow up" is as essential in Church work as in business. When we have shown a person how his wants can be satisfied by participation in the Church, we must reduce resistance to action by pointing out some concrete responses to be made soon. We may suggest coming to one of the meetings in the next few days. Offer to call for him on your way, in order to reduce the resistance a person naturally has in starting a new course of action on his own initiative. A stranger is not easily motivated to come alone to a meeting where he must "break into" the social group without the help of a friend. Let us not expect people to change their ways over night. Encourage them to make little attempts at first, larger ones later as they become more interested. We must not forget, too, that our own enthusiasm and sincerity in what we are doing is contagious, that it goes far toward making people believe that there must be some value in what we are doing. If our own lives are happy through satisfying our wants through the Church, we are likely to be good missionaries or teachers; if we are half-hearted, no one will be convinced that our way of life is better than any other. IV. ESTABLISH PLEASANT FEELINGS. There are many possible methods of creating pleasant feelings. In the first place, a clean and neat appearance of the teacher is as important as it is for the salesman. A congenial manner, based upon genuine interest in other people, is also important. Cheerfulness should radiate from us and joy in the faith we have. Our love of fellow men should make us tolerant and tactful. Our meetings themselves should be carefully planned to create pleasant feelings. The music should be well rendered. Care should be taken to make the appearance of the room clean and inviting. An excellent Relief Society project is to beautify the class room. Attractive pictures should adorn the walls. We have learned in public school work that a pleasant school room contributes to the progress of learning and personality growth, because it also improves the "emotional climate" and thereby promotes more congenial relationships. Friendly and personal greeting at the door appeals to the desire to be recognized, and one feels happier for having come. Well planned and well executed programs prevent strain and unrest and should be encouraged. Nothing is more discour- 794 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE aging to a person who begins to show some interest in Church activities than to come to a meeting and not be spoken to or made to feel welcome, and then to feel strained because the officers do not seem to know what the program is. Reference to the sentiments surrounding the ideals of the home, loyalty to the Church, to the flag and to the Constitution, belief in the hereafter and eternal ties tend to arouse pleasant feelings in us and make us want to continue attending the services. V. GUARD AGAINST ANTAGONIZING. When we begin to change our ways, we admit that we have not done the best we could, and we may feel embarrassed at this admission. We particularly dislike to be shown we are wrong. The teacher or missionary is in the dangerous position of appearing to think "T am better than thou." He must, therefore, let the other person "save his face," i. e. Find for himself that our solution is the best one. We simply lead the way through suggestions; we should not try to force our belief on a person. If we do, we may deflate his ego and arouse antagonism toward us. We should avoid using ridicule and disparaging criticism for the same reason. If a person apparently has deep prejudices against some phase of the Church, we should respect those prejudices by not attacking them directly. A better plan is to create good feeling first, and then associate that feeling with some phase of the work not so directly related to the prejudices. Another error we should guard against, particularly in handling our own members who are irregular in attending meetings, is to force them to participate publicly when to do so may embarrass them. Some personalities naturally dislike to appear before a group to speak, sing or pray. We should avoid forcing participation when it may arouse unpleasant feelings, which may be the cause of the person's not continuing to attend meetings. Gradual opportunity for expression should be offered with the hope that courage and enjoyment in this kind of participation will gradually develop. We should always let the person we teach feel that he is entitled to the credit for changing his life. Never should we boast of the conversions we make. We should be happy in the souls we help to save, but not selfish in the glory. A truly converted person is so happy he wants to help others to share what he has found. The teacher or missionary may not always feel at first a keen desire to be his brother's keeper, but somehow teaching has a way of converting the teacher. A missionary strengthens his own faith by having to defend it. Teaching, itself, makes us more aware of how the Church may serve our wants. Problems For Discussion 1. Show the importance of understanding the wants of people as a basis for leading them to participate in the Church. 2. Name a few wants the Church satisfies. 3. Which of the wants mentioned in the lesson did Jesus appeal to when He said, "Whosoever believeth in Him should not perish but RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 795 have eternal life. For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish but have everlasting life?" 4. What can your Relief Society group do to create more pleasant feelings as an inducement for new members to come out? (Consider not only the physical atmosphere but the emotional atmosphere created by the feelings the members have toward one another.) 5. What would you say are the essentials of successful visiting teaching? What are the common mistakes to guard against? References See references on salesmanship given at the close of last month's lesson.