Education for Family Life ~ FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS - Lesson Five Family Unity N our consideration of family relationships we have accepted Burgess' definition of the family; namely, "that the family is a unity of interacting personalities". In order to have a clear understanding of this point of view of the family, we must define the terms interaction and unity. The term interaction signifies the process by which meanings are communicated from one person to another, resulting in mutual modification. Society, or any part of society, exists only to the extent that interaction takes place. The type or quality of interaction determines the degree of unity within a given group. Unity is a relative term and one not easy to define; in fact, one author states that unity means whatever one wishes it to mean. Lumley says: "Whatever we consider as unity is unity. 'Unity is affirmed,' says the dictionary, 'of a simple substance or indivisible monad or of several particles or parts so intimately and closely united as to constitute a separate body or thing; it is a state of being one?oneness; it is a state of harmony, concord, conjunction, agreement, uniformity, cooperation, coherence, coordination, mutual aid, sympathetic understanding, conformity, solidarity; it is system, or- ' ganization, universe of discourse, community.' These are terms that represent attempts to point out, adequately characterize, and finally to say fully and accurately what unity is and what it is not." Even the above statement, as complete as it may seem, does not give us an adequate concept of family unity. Unity within the family implies E. Lumley, Principles of Sociology. Pp: 132-33- 796 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE love, security, stability, status, and power. Mowrer stresses the importance of the emotional factor in family unity. He says: "The family is not merely a group of individuals living in close proximity, as formal studies of divorce and desertion seem to assume. It is also an organization of attitudes and ideals which each family develops independently and which characterizes the family as a cultural group. Family pride, family prejudice, the jokes and proverbs intelligible to no outsider, and the hopes and ambitions that distinguish families from one another help to make up what may be called the 'family complex'. It is this identification of interests which makes of the family a cooperating unit, felt by its members and recognized by the community. The unity of the family lies, in other words, not in any formal obligation which the law imposes but in the interaction between its members. There is that intimate identification which grows out of unity of feeling and emotion. Thus, it is unnecessary for one member of the family to give expression of his approval or disapproval in language, for the others already know from more subtle expressions. Again, the members all respond to the same appeals, and their sympathies are aroused by the same causes. Failure to share in the family interests marks one as somewhat deficient in the virtues of the family, and in the long run family pressure tends to be too strong and causes him to accept as inevitable that in which he previously had not shared. And so in joy or sorrow, in fame or disgrace, that which comes to one of the family is shared by all alike. It is this unity of feeling, therefore, which constitutes the dominant tone of the family and which with intellectual unity constitutes the essential element in the thing which we call the family." Following a recent discussion on family unity, a mother of four children made the statement that it would be a waste of time and effort to attempt to develop very much unity within their family group, because the personalities of the members were so varied. To think that unity depends upon likenesses only is indeed a fallacy. Differences and the conflicts that arise therefrom can be guided and controlled in the interest of the group welfare. It is not uncommon to find an increase in family unity as the result of the reorganization of the group which was made necessary by a crisis precipitated by individual differences. So far we have attempted to develop a concept of family unity. Our next concern is the problem of how to promote unity within the family group. First, may we call attention to the fact that in each of the four preceding lessons we have presented suggestions for family living that, if practiced, will enhance family unity. Meeting together in the family council will tend to develop both intellectual and emotional unity, as will also the democratic handling of the family pocketbook. If each mate assumes his responsibility to his partner, both will experience a sense of unity that will permeate the entire group; the children will unconsciously absorb a feeling of unity and will respond according- *Reuter and Runner, The Family, p. 481. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 797 ly in their relations with other members. If the father fails to function in the accepted role of the father, each member of the family will be conscious of a degree of disorganization within the group which, naturally, gives a feeling of lack of unity. The more frequently the family experiences satisfaction and happiness as a result of functioning together, other things being equal, the stronger will be the bonds of unity. The following are a few of the innumerable activities that may profitably be engaged in by the family as a group: Participating as a group in church activities, engaging in family prayer, reading and discussing together, not only the Bible and other Church books, but worth while books of any kind, magazines and the daily newspaper; planning appropriate birthday anniversaries, sharing responsibility in family observance of annual holidays, summer picnics and winter evening candy-pulls. Functioning together successfully creates a community of interests, which is a basic factor in family unity. As a unity of interacting personalities the family is constantly moving either toward improved organization or disorganization. If disorganization is allowed to go on unchecked, the obvious result will be family disintegration. It is important for each family to be able to determine which of the two processes is dominating the interaction in their group. E. T. Krueger has set up a criterion for determining the degree of unity within the family. He says: "The stabilized family as a unity of interacting personalities possesses the following characteristics: "1. The subordination of the members to a common objective. This common objective may be chiefly economic; it may center about education of the children; it may concern the realization of a social ideal of mutuality of attitudes between its members; it may be conceived as service to the state or to Deity; it may be directed toward the preservation of family traditions and social status. "2. The conscious cooperation of its members to realize the common objective. "3. A reciprocity of personal services by which each member becomes dependent upon the other members, the entire group representing an interdependence of activities of an intimate and mutual character. "4. A coordination of the roles of the members of the family in terms of obligations and privileges, such that each member assumes a positional relationship or status to every other member which defines his duties and permits, within limits, the personal satisfaction of wishes. "5. Participation of the family in a social or communal world by which the family plays a role and secures a positional or status relationship of prestige in reference to other families. "6. A consensus of emotional attitudes in which each individual member more or less harmoniously relates his life to that of every other member and to the group as a whole. In relation to other members the attitudes are those of affection, sympathy, and respect; to the group as a 798 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE whole the attitudes are those of loyalty, pride, and responsibility." THE strength of the family is determined by the degree of unity within the family. By strength we refer to the power and ability of the group to realize the purpose of family living. The fundamental purpose of the family is the development of personalities who can make a satisfactory adjustment to the world in which they live. In order for the individual to develop such a personality, among other things he must feel secure; he must experience love and affection; he must be able to enjoy the feeling that he is wanted and that he belongs to a family of which he can be proud. He must be permitted to share in the common activities of family living, assume a part of the duties and responsibilities and enjoy his due proportion of the rights and privileges. Unity within the family will not be developed unless there is a conscious effort on the part of each member to promote such development. Once more may we emphasize the fact that example is more powerful than precept. If there is unity between husband and wife, the foundation stone for family unity is laid. Disorganization within the family breeds social disorganization and paves the way for family and social disintegration. Unity within the family breeds social unity and paves *Reuter and Runner, The Family, p. 491. (We suggest that it would prove to be of great value if each family would spend an evening together in discussing the above six characteristics in relation to their own group. ) the way for successful and happy living for the individual as a member of the family and for the family as a unit of society. The happy and successful family represents a social unit of power and strength upon which society depends for the development of personalities who have the ability and characteristics of true leadership. Problems and Questions for Discussion 1. What methods and practices would you suggest whereby family differences might be directed toward strengthening family unity rather than permitting them to cause family disorganization? 2. From the point of view of family unity, evaluate the practice of celebrating the birthdays of family members. From the same standpoint, plan in detail what you would consider to be an ideal Thanksgiving Day. 3. From your observations of family life, explain each of the six characteristics of stabilized family life as listed by Krueger. 4. What indications of unity are evident in the family that you consider to be the most successful family in your community? References 1. The American Family, E. R. Groves, Pub. J. B. Lippincott and Co., Chicago. 2. Readings in the Family, E. R. Groves and L. M. Brooks, Pub. J. B. Lippincott and Company, Chicago. 3.