GUIDE LESSONS; 479 Hebrews, can be learned through consulting any students' Bible or encyclopedia. In ancient times marriage ceremonies were elaborate, the gifts were costly, and weeks were spent in preparation and feasting before and after the ceremony. (Gen. 24:3; 4:38; Judges, 14:4; Prov. 2:17; Gen. 24:16; Judges 14:17, 18; Matt. 25.) Now, as to our modern Christian beliefs on the marriage ceremony: We will give here the ceremony, or form of solemnization, of matrimony as given in the English Prayer Book; which form is common to most of the Protestant churches, with a few modifications by this or that sect: At the day and time appointed for solemnization of matrimony, the persons to be married shall come into the body of the church, or shall be ready in some proper house, with their friends and neighbors; and there standing together, the man on the right hand, and the woman on the left, the minister shall say: Dearly beloved, we are gathered together here in the sight of God, and in the face of this company to join together this man and this woman in holy matrimony; which is commended of Saint Paul to be honorable among all men: and therefore is not by any to be entered into inadvisedly or lightly; but reverently, discreetly, advisedly, soberly and in the fear of God. Into this holy estate these two persons present come now to be joined. If any man can show just cause, why they may not lawfully be joined together, let him now speak or else hereafter forever hold his peace.' (And also speaking unto the persons who are to be married shall say:): "I require and charge you both, as ye will answer at the dreadful day of judgment when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed, that if either of you know any impediment, why ye may not be lawfully joined together in matrimony, ye now do confess it. For be you well assured, that if any persons are joined together, otherwise than as God's words doth allow, their marriage is not lawful." The minister, if he shall have reason. To doubt of the lawfulness of the proposed marriage, may demand sufficient surety for his identificatioin: but if no impediment shall be alleged or suspected, the minister shall say to the man: "Wilt thou have this woman to be thy wedded wife, to live together after God's ordinances in the holy estate of matrimony? Wilt thou love her, comfort her, honor her, and keep her in sickness and in health; and, forsaking all others keep thee only unto her, so long as ye both shall live?" The man shall answer, "I will." Then shall the minister say unto the woman: "Wilt thou have this man to be thy wedded husband to live together after God's ordinance in the holy estate of matrimony? Wilt thou obey him and serve him, love, honor and keep him in sickness and in health; and, forsaking all others, keep thee only unto her, so long as ye both shall live?" The woman shall answer, "I will." Then shall the minister say: "Who giveth this woman to be married to this man?" Then they give their troth to each other in this manner, the min- 
 ister receiving the woman at her father's hands shall cause the man with his right hand to take the woman by her right hand, and to say after him as followeth: "I take thee to my wedded wife, to have and to hold from this day forward, for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, 'till death do us part, according to God's ordinance, and hereto I plight thee my troth." Then shall they loose their hands: and the woman with her right hand, taking the man by his right hand, shall likewise say after the minister: "I take thee to my wedded husband, to have and to hold from this day forward, for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love, cherish, and to obey, fill death do us part, according to God's holy ordinance; and here too I give thee my troth," Then shall they again loose their hands and the man shall give unto the woman a ring. And the minister, taking the ring, shall deliver it unto the man, to put it upon the fourth finger of the woman's left hand. And the man holding the ring there, and taught by the minister, shall say: "With this ring, I thee wed, and with all my worldly goods I thee endow: in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen." Then the man, leaving the ring upon the fourth finger of the woman's hand, the minister shall say: "Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth, as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. Lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil. Amen. "O eternal God, Creator, and Preserver of all mankind, Giver cI all spiritual grace, the Author of everlasting life; send thy blessing upon these thy servants, this man and this woman, whom we bless in thy name; that as Isaac and Rebecca lived faithfully together, so these persons may surely perform and keep the vow and covenants betwixt them made, (wherefore this ring given and received is a token and pledge), and may ever remain in perfect love and peace together, and live according to the laws; through Jesus Christ our Lord, Amen." Then shall the minister join their right hands together, and say, "Those whom God hath joined together let no man put asunder." Then shall the minister speak unto the company: "For as much as N. And M. Have consented together in holy wedlock, and have witnessed the same before God and this company, and thereto have given and pledged their troth, each to the other, and have declared the same by giving and receiving a ring, and by joining hands; I pronounce that they are Man and Wife, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. Amen." And the minister shall add this blessing: "God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost, bless, preserve, and keep you; the Lord mercifully with his favor look upon you, and fill you with all spiritual benediction and 'grace; that ye may so live together in this life that in the world to come ye may have life everlasting. Amen.". The American Methodist Episcopalian service is practically the same with the significant elimination of the covenant of obedience which is made by the woman to the man, in the Eng- lish ceremony. Practically all Christian sects use the form above given, with small variations. The Catholics' attitude, as found in their own Cathechism, is as follows: The Sacrament of Matrimony is the sacrament which unites a Christian man and woman in lawful marriage. A Christian man and woman cannot be united in lawful marriage in any other way than by the Sacrament of Matrimony, because Christ raised marriage to the dignity of a sacrament. The bond of Christian marriage cannot be dissolved by any human power. The effects of the Sacrament of matrimony are first, to sanctify the love of husband and wife; 2nd, to give them grace to bear with each other's weaknesses; 3rd, to enable them to bring up their children in the fear and love of God. The church alone has the right to make laws concerning the sacrament of the marriage contract, though the state also has the right to make laws concerning the civil effects of the marriage contract. The church forbids the marriage of Catholics with persons who have a different religion or no religion at all, because such marriages generally lead to indifference, loss of faith, and to the neglect of the religious education of the children. Many marriages prove unhappy because they are entered into hastily and without worthy motives. Christians should prepare for holy and happy marriage by receiving the Sacrament of Penance and Holy Eucharist; by begging God to grant them a pure intention to so direct their choice; and by seeking the advice of their parents and the blessings of the pastors. Note the two significant points in this statement; first, the Catholic marriage can not be dissolved by any human power, which, of course, precludes the possibility of divorce. Some Catholics, however, by special dispensation of the Pope, do get a sort of divorce. It will be remembered that the quarrel between Henry Eighth and the Catholic church began with the pope's refusal to grant him any more divorces, and to marry him to any more wives. The second notable point is that the church forbids the marriage of Catholic with those of a different religion, and it should be stated that the orthodox Catholic certainly lives up to this teaching to a marked degree. But as said before, exceptions are made. The following quotation from the eleventh edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica will prove this fact: Divorce, that is, the annulment of marriage for any cause but an impediment which makes the marriage void, is unknown to the Roman Catholic church, Separation is only possible under the canon law by a judicial decree of nullity, which implies not the severing of the ties of a real marriage, but the solemn declaration that such marriage has never existed, There may, however, be a "separation from bed and board," even perpetual, which does not, however, give either party the right to marry during the life time of the other. But, marriage not being regarded as a sacrament until consummated, it may be dissolved, if nonconsummation be proved, by one or both parties taking the religious 
 vows, or by papal dispensation. The church claims exclusive control over marriage, and the council of Trent anathematized the opinion held by Luther and other Reformers, that it was properly a subject for the civil courts. This attitude became of extreme political importance when even in Catholic countries the codes established civil marriage ag the only legally binding form. All down through the scriptures Hebrews were enjoined with heavy penalties not to marry outside their faith. Catholics still observe this law pretty well, and the Jews of today are as strict as they were in days of old; that is, orthodox Jews are. What a pity that Latter-day Saints are not as faithful in keeping this law of intermarriage as are Jews and Catholics! A case in point is related by Elder Edward T. Ashton of the presidency of the Salt Lake stake of Zion. Traveling recently to St. George with a Hebrew, in the course of a pleasant conversation, the Hebrew remarked, that his mission to St. George would be of interest to his companion; for he was going down there to break up a marriage between one of his faith anc one of our faith. When asked as to traveling 300 miles to perform such a mission, the Hebrew gentleman replied that he would travel any distance in the state for such a purpose. Indeed his whole mission centered in the watch-care of the youth of his people in this state on that particular. Point. And he added, 'You may be interested to know that in 22 years in this state only two Orthodox Jews have married outside our people." What a magnificent record is that! The Latter-day Saints are blessed beyond their comprehension; for in their religion exists the authority of the priesthood, to seal not only for time, but for all eternity as well. Moreover, that sealing power makes the offspring of the marriage direct heirs to all the gifts and privileges of the gospel, and permits the parents to bring into the world the seed of promise which has been waiting for 6,000 years to come forth in this the last dispensation of time. Read the revelation on the marriage covenant for eternity. (Sec. 132 Doc. And Cov.) That celestial order of marriage pertains to the union of one man and one woman as well as to one man and several wives; it permitted and sanctioned the marriage of one man with more than one woman until the issuance of the Manifesto by President Wilford Woodruff, in 1890; and re-issued by President Joseph F. Smith in 1904. Since then no plural marriages are performed; all who claim otherwise are apostates to the gospel, and to the authority of God's holy priesthood. Do you understand that, students and sisters? But all single marriages performed before then and since then in the temples are marriages for eternity, as well as for time, and are in full harmony with GUIDE LESSONS - 483 the laws of God and man. How glorious to contemplate such a condition and such a promise. One thing more concerning marriage is worthy our consideration. This Church is more liberal to women than any other church in the world. A woman who is unhappy or abused in the marriage relation is justified in securing a divorce, for the man who has power to bind on earth and it is bound in heaven, also has the power to loose on earth and it is loosed in heaven The keys of the power to loose are held by one man?the President of the Church?and he has not delegated this power to any other man, as he has done in the case of sealing. Women in the final analysis, when they reach their heavenly state, will have the privilege of being placed where they belong and where their heart's affection is turned. In case of separation in the Church the children go with the mother, where the father is unworthy. No greater testimony of the breadth of sympathy and justice accorded women could be shown than in this religious provision. The Church teaches as did Paul, that the woman is not without the man in Christ Jesus nor is the man without the woman in Christ Jesus; and no unmarried man or woman can attain to the highest glory. A woman may be single, not from any fault of hers; usually it is not so with the man. Teach your children the glorious privilege of temple marriage; and the dangers of marriage with an unbeliever; and teach them by precept and example the beauty of the marriage relation through your own reverence for that covenant, and your respect for your husband and your obedience to his counsel. In that way children will imbibe a wholesome respect for the marriage ceremony itself and reverence for all that the ceremony implies and promises. Marriage is primarily for the bearing and rearing of children; those who refuse to bear children wilfully annul the marriage covenant, and therefore are covenant breakers and are on the sure road to apostasy and death. Birthcontrol, or limitation of offspring originates with the devil and leads downward. Beware of that doctrine. QUESTIONS What is marriage? Why do you hold it sacred? What protection to children does marriage afford?. Read about marriage in the encyclopedia, and then discuss: civil marriage, Catholic marriage, Roman laws, in regard to marriage. Our own U. S. Laws on marriage. 5. What can you say about marriage for time? For eternity?484; 
. Who in our Church possesses the authority to marry for time and eternity? How did the Church obtain that authority? : 7. If parents who are married outside of the Church lose their children by death, who will rear those children to maturity in eternity? 8. What do you teach your children about marriage? 9. Why will birth-control annul our sacred marriage covenant? 10. What is good cause for divorce? 11. Do your children and grand children believe in tempie marirage? If not, why not? 12. Invite a good L. D. S. Lawyer to give a talk on the civil aspects of marriage and divorce.