LTlission Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 4 (Tuesday, January 20, 1942) WHILE OF THESE EMBLEMS WE PARTAKE While of these emblems we partake, In Jesus' name and for His sake, Let us remember and be sure Our hearts and hands are clean and pure. For us the blood of Christ was shed, For us on Calv'ry's cross He bled, And thus dispelled the awful gloom, That else were this creation's doom. The law was broken, Jesus died That justice might be satisfied, That man might not remain the slave, Of death, of hell, or of the grave; But rise triumphant from the tomb, And in eternal splendor bloom; Freed from the power of death and pain, With Christ, the Lord, to rule and reign. OHN NICHOLSON, the author of this sacramental hymn, was born in Scotland on July 13, 1830, three months after the organization ?John Nicholson of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, although, of course, he was not born into that Church. Of his early life and 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT environment, we have no information whatever. He embraced the Restored Gospel in 1861, at the age of thirty one. As was the practice in those days, John Nicholson was called on a mission from his home town, two years after his baptism. His field of labor was in England. For a time he presided over the conference in which he labored. After three years of missionary work, he immigrated to America, and in 1866 settled in Salt Lake City. Twelve years later, in 1878, he was again called on a mission to England. He spent two years in the mission field, during which time he served as associate editor of the Millennial Star. These facts point to the nature and talents of John Nicholson. He was not only deeply religious, but he was also a very able man, patticularly as a public speaker and writer. Both as a preacher and as a writer, he was forceful and vigorous. This was his 'natural disposition. Positive in his ideas and feelings, he spoke frankly and convincingly. This quality of positiveness stood the Saints well in hand during the time when they were being much persecuted in Utah and elsewhere for their faith. Elder Nicholson gave lectures on various topics during these years of stress. He was also associate editor of the Deseret News at this time, Elder Charles A. Penrose being its editor. During his last years, Elder Nicholson worked in the Salt Lake Temple and reported the discourses given at the general conferences of the Church. He died in January, 1909. 723 F we were to distinguish among the various ordinances of the Church with respect to their importance, we should have to say that the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is the most vital. The principal ordinances in our Church are: (1) baptism; (2) confirmation; (3) the sacrament; (4) ordination to the Priesthood; and (Ss) healing the sick. There are others, such as marriage, but these are the most common. An ordinance ls sometimes called a rite, a ceremony, or ritual, and constitutes an act as distinguished from a thought or a word. While, of course, all the ordinances of the Church of Jesus Christ are sacred and should always be regarded as such, still, as already stated, the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is undoubtedly the most sacred. A little reflection will show that this is so. For one thing, the central fact in the religion of Jesus Christ is the death and resurrection of Christ. "He died that we might live" in a real sense, both in this life and in the next. "Adam fell that men might be," but Jesus died that we might be saved and exalted in his kingdom. As a result of Adam's transgression in the Garden of Eden, the spirit and the body of man would be eternally separated. It was necessary, therefore, that there should be something to reunite them. That something was the sacrifice of Christ. "As in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive." That is the way Paul puts it. The fall of man was not an accident, but an essential part of the "plan of life and salvation." In this idea, Latter-day Saints differ from all other Christians, for they seem to think that if Adam had not died, we should all have been very happy. The fact is that we wouldn't be happy at all, for we would be always thinking that Adam had done us a great injury, instead of a great good. Without the death of our first parents, we would not have needed Christ, with the example of an ideal, a perfect life. And then, for another thing, the death and resurrection of Christ being the central fact in revealed religion, everything in our faith revolves around it and takes its meaning from that fact. We have faith in Christ and his plan of salvation; we repent because we have in some way come in conflict with one or more of His laws, or commandments; we are baptized in His name, along with that of the Father and the Holy Ghost; we are confirmed into the Church of Christ; and our men receive the Priesthood so that they may act in His name on the earth. Indeed, whenever we pray, or heal the sick, or perform any of the ordinances of the Church, we do so "in the name of Jesus Christ." The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is the only ordinance that reminds us directly and concretely of the death and the sufferings of our Lord for us. We eat the bread in remembrance of the body which He gave up in death for us, and we drink the wine (water) in remembrance of the blood which He shed for our sins, that we might not have to suffer in like manner for them. Thus, in the most literal way, we are reminded, every time we partake of these emblems, of the great sacrifice which Christ made for us.. Of bread and wine. Of course, this ordinance of the sacrament was restored in our time, with other ordinances and essential principles. But, for certain reasons, water was substituted for wine, and smaller pieces of bread were used also. For, as the word "supper" indicates, the first celebration of this ordinance was almost a meal, made "It mattereth not," says the revelation to our Prophet on the subject, "what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to' my glory?remembering unto the Father my body which was laid down for you, and my blood which was shed for the remission of your sins." (Doctrine and Covenants, 27:2) We partake of the sacrament oftener than other believers in Christ. O far as we know, there was no special event or incident in the life of John Nicholson that led to the composition of this hymn. The poet was a very devout man as well as thoroughly informed on the teachings of the Church, and he was thoroughly converted to its doctrines. It is said that on his mission to England, between 1878 and 1880, he laid special stress on the work of salvation wrought out for us by the Savior. In view of this poem, we can understand this. Few men believed more sincerely and _ intelligently in that work than he. And few men lived more consistently with the teachings of the Gospel of Christ. The progress of thought and emotion?more of thought than feeling ?is simple in this poem: first, we have the condition under which we 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT should partake of "these emblems" ?cleanness of hands and purity of heart; second, the purpose of the sacrifice of Christ?to save the world from "doom"; third, this is carried over into the third stanza including the thought "that justice might be satisfied," since a law was broken by Adam; and fourth, the fact that, in the release of mankind from the tomb, we shall rise from the dead "triumphant," to "rule and reign" with Christ, the Lord. Here, then, we have the fact, the reason, and the result in the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. Questions 1. Which stanza of this poem appeals most to you? Suppose you memorize it, if not the whole poem. 2. Give the main facts in the life of John Nicholson. What was his vocation 725 in life? On what two Church periodicals did he work at different times? 3. Consider this poem with the idea of getting some information from it about the kind of man Elder Nicholson was. Is it mainly a poem of thought or a poem of feeling, or both? What ideas does it give us about the work of our Savior for us? Set down on paper as many of these as you can. 4. In what condition of soul should one partake of the sacrament? What is the significance of the words "hands" and "hearts" as used in this poem? When is one "pure in heart'? 5. Why do we partake of the sacrament? How do we come to use water instead of wine in the sacrament? (See History of the Church, Vol. I, page 106, and the prefatory note to the current edition of the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 27.) 6. What should we think about when the sacrament is being blessed and passed? Do you always try to bend your thoughts on the sacrifice of Christ for us, the benefit we derive from this ordinance, and its significance?