RELIEF MAGAZINE
Vol 28 October 1941 No. 10
THE COVER
The Assembly Hall on Temple Square in Salt Lake City
TO THE majority of Latter-day Saints October means conference time, and every autumn new interest is centered in historic Temple Square in Salt Lake City?in the Temple, the Tabernacle, Church Museum, and the Assembly Hall. It is thrilling to meet again with friends and co-workers, to be again one with the people who come from near and far to receive counsel and inspiration from our leaders.
To Relief Society women, the Assembly Hall has special significance. It is there that hundreds of women meet for instruction in Relief Society officers' meetings held in connection with semiannual Relief Society conferences.
The Assembly Hall stands on the southwest corner of Temple Square. It was built during 1877 to 1882 primarily for the holding of quarterly conferences for the old Salt Lake Stake. Made of granite like that of which the Temple. Is built, it is a beautiful, semi-Gothic structure, with a roof of four gables, each of which is surmounted with ornamental spires, as also are the four corners of the hall. This building has four entrances?one on each side and one at each end. The height of the tower rising from the center of the structure is 130 feet.
The Assembly Hall is now used not only for religious services, but for public lectures and concerts for which the larger Tabernacle would not be suitable. It will _accommodate about 3,000 people.
Editor's Note: Noted architects who have visited Salt Lake City have praised the beauty of the Assembly Hall. One visitor spoke of it as one of the most outstanding buildings, from an architectural standpoint, in the city. These features are well reproduced in the cover photograph by T. J. Howells, M. D., who has supplied many lovely covers for the Relief Society Magazine. Arrangements for this month's cover design are by Evan Jensen.
NOW IN ITS THIRD EDITION
The Book of Mormon in Fascinating Form
"A VOICE from the DUST"
Edited and Arranged by Genet Bingham Dee
All the majesty and inspirational quality of ''The Book of Mormon" has been enhanced in this masterly arrangement.
Easy to read... Easy to understand.
Beautifully illustrated?100 pictures?many in color.
Writes Pres. David O. McKay?
"It is a distinct contribution to our Church literature and will, I am sure, cause many to read 'The Book of Mormon' who otherwise might have neglected to do so."'
Thousands already have received new knowledge, new inspiration from "A VOICE FROM THE DUST.''
Come to our store or pin your check or money order to this advertisement and mail to us.
$2.50 Postpaid
DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City
Index to Advertisers
"A Voice From The Dust" (Deseret Book Co.) Fly-leaf
Bennett Glass & Paint Co 728
Deseret Book Co Inside Back Cover
Fisher Baking Co Fly-leaf
Larkin Mortuaries Inside Back Cover
L. D. S. Business College 728
Mountain Fuel Supply Co 728
The Deseret News Press Outside Back Cover
Utah Power & Light Co 728
NOW ENRICHED with VITAMINS and IRON
Provides the Energy your Children need for their School Activities
"Oven Fresh Daily At Your Grocer's
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine