Winter Cheer From Growing Plants James M. Kirkham Secretary of Church Beautification Committee POETAZ NARCISSUS, ORANGE CUP IF anyone doubts what is taking place in the Church Beautification Program, he has only to make a careful survey or read reports coming in from the different ward committees to be convinced. There are many outstanding achievements. We find that many communities are cleaner, more wholesome, and more livable. As a result of the campaign, we have more beauty spots and fewer unsightly places. Many home grounds have been improved and made more lovely through the inspiration received from those actively engaged in this beautification program. In all of this, the women of the Church have taken a very active part. We appreciate your wholehearted support. Orchids to you! The flower shows held in wards or at county and state fairs have given us a splendid opportunity to select the kind and variety of flowers that we would like to have in our homes or gardens, either this winter or next spring. We suggest that a survey be made in every ward to learn what plants, roots, or bulbs, are available for exchange or purchase from neighbors. This is one way to increase the number and kind of flowers and shrubs at very little cost. If there is a surplus, it may be given to some neighbor who needs encouragement to beautify his home grounds. HE fall season is upon us, and winter will soon be here. Many have had the experience and others should know the joy of having flowers in the house all winter long. A great variety of flowers will bloom indoors with little trouble. Arranged on shelves or in a window box near a sunny window, they will keep bright throughout the winter. The easiest plant to grow indoors is the bulb, both the hardy kind which is usually grown in gardens, and the tender variety which will not stand our cold winters, but grow vigorously indoors. The culture of bulbs for winter flowering is becoming more popular all the time. The careful selection of good firm Page 681 682 bulbs of different varieties will result in a succession of bloom from December until spring. A bulb is the underground storehouse of a plant, and it contains the unfolded plant yet to come, which under favorable conditions will yield fragrant flowers. Some bulbs need potting in soil, others can be grown - in bowls with fiber, moss, or even pebbles and water. Select bulbs according to the experience you have had and the attention you are willing to give them. It is easiest to grow those which flower in pebbles and water, but more interesting, and a better test of your gardening skill, to bring into flower those which require soil. All bulbs can be grown in soil, a smaller number in fiber, and still fewer in water with pebbles or moss. A few of the latter include the tender narcissi, known as Paper Whites (white), Soliel d'Or (yellow), and Chinese sacred lilies; also the largest size hyacinths and lilies of the valley. In bulb fiber, which is a mixture of peat and plant food, it is possible to grow, in bowls without drainage, all of the above, together with daffodils, early tulips, crocuses, freesias, calla lilies, grape hyacinths, and scillas. In pots with soil, all of the above bulbs can be grown, together with all garden tulips and narcissi, amarylis, Roman hyacinths, and, by the more skillful, lilies. From this list, one may select a pleasing assortment of flowers to decorate the winter garden. By starting bulbs in succession, a bowl or pot may be replaced as soon as its flowers fade, and a continuous display can be maintained throughout the season. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1941

 The bulb is packed full of foodstuff and it requires clean water and plenty of fresh air. Once the plant is well up, if you want to prolong the growth and flowering, do not keep it in too high a temperature;. Or, on the other hand, if you wish: to force it into bloom for any par-_ ticular reason then bring the plant. Out into a warm room. In order to grow roots, the plant must have darkness, and it must be kept damp and cool. Many like to place bulbs away after planting, keeping them in a cool dark cellar or closet for about six weeks. GERANIUMS are favorite plants for winter, but they will not. Flower well unless they can have plenty of sunshine. Geraniums that have flowered during the summer will not bloom during the winter. Nature demands that they need a rest. Start new cuttings, and when they reach the blooming stage you will have flowers for at least four months and maybe longer. Plant cuttings in small pots. They do not need too much water, but should be kept moist at all times. For next winter's house flowers. Start cuttings of geraniums, coleus, begonias, and others right now. Plant cuttings in a jar or small box of fine sand. Keep them moist, and roots will soon start. When sprouts are about one inch long, each cutting should be replanted in a small pot of sandy soil. If you want an attractive vine, select a good firm sweet potato. Place it in a glass container or jar filled with water, so that a part of the sweet potato is out of the water and will remain that way; soon you will have a beautiful vine. The tuber WINTER CHEER FROM GROWING PLANTS may be started in a hanging basket or bowl. A piece of charcoal should be kept in the water at all times to keep it sweet and pure. Warmth is necessary for the growth of a good vine. It does not need to be kept in a dark place to start growth. 'There are many varieties of ivy, wandering jew, and other vines which may add to the attractiveness of the home during the winter season. Thoughtful planning in the selection of containers, such as the jardiniere, in regard to color and design, may greatly add to the artistic effect 683 of the room. Such containers will also enable one to use flowering plants for attractive table decoration during the non-growing season. With such leadership as the Relief Society members are able to give this beautification program, there is no doubt but what our Church property and our homes will be more beautiful. Likewise, with the aid of the Relief Society members, the coming winter will be more enjoyable because of the flowers that will be found blooming in their homes. A BOW TO THE MORMONS A LINE O'TYPE OR TWO The following interesting item appeared in the Chicago Daily Tribune, September 16, 1940. "We came back from Salt Lake City with plans for a winter's reading about the Mormons, whose pioneering forms one of the strangest and most fascinating chapters of American history. We will probably. Begin with M. B. Werner's Brigham Young, a work of some years' vintage which we have not yet tackled. Its point of view toward the religious background is, no doubt, highly cynical. Mark Twain, too, has been elaborately humorous on the subject. But wisecracks grow old and wither away while the Mormons continue to pattern their lives after the industrious bee and to make their desert blossom, year after year, like the rose. "Every Mormon is apparently under a vow to water his lawn three times a day and plant trees and flowers wherever possible. The idea, prevalent in Chicago, of chopping down cottonwoods as votive offerings to the sewer pipe cult, would seem like sacrilege to a citizen of Salt Lake. The residential districts are a pageant of garden exhibits, even when the houses are merely those of the low-salaried middle class. Water meter rates are fairly high, but these thrifty folk pay their bills gladly for the sake of their petunias and rambler roses. "We remember, in_ particular, one fine home in a new subdivision where the petunias in bloom ran into acreage, evoking ohs and ahs of admiration from a 'Seeing Salt Lake' bus. Beyond the wall of that radiant little estate was open country?a sage brush hillside, stark and hostile to civilization. The contrast was of more value as a commentary 'on Mormonism, than a shelf of printed controversy by skeptics over the alleged revelations of Joseph Smith."