HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon If somber thoughts assail you as you tread The russet carpet that the night-wind spread, Look to the hills aglow with gold and red! THE world we love is on the brink of chaos and destruction, combatting a tempestuous madness never known before. Women today have harder tasks to face. Meet them with courage! The demands of this war call for greater sacrifice, greater force, greater faith. The call of the hour is to muster all the spiritual forces of the soul to overcome the evil that is sweeping the ideals and culture of civilization into oblivion. The words watch and pray have now a deeper significance! "Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet, Lest we forget?lest we forget!" ALICE MARBLE, tennis star, last month opened national headquarters in New York, to direct a physical-fitness program for American women as part of the civilian defense effort. THIRTY wives of aircraft corporation workers took their places alongside their husbands in the San Diego defense school, a vanguard of women destined for employment where manual dexterity is patamount. Women are also called to barrage balloon details, thus releasing man power for duty with the R. A. F. Another recent call is to furnish strands of hair, as they are told human hair can be used in the manufacture of plastics which can be used in innumerable armament industries. LADY HOWARD, beautiful Hungarian daughter-in-law of the Page 684 Earl of Effingham, was imprisoned in Holloway jail, London, under de- _ fense regulations, but she harbors no ill feeling, saying she knows precautions must be taken. Now she is free it is her desire to engage in war work for Britain. SARAH DELANO ROOSEVELT, 87, mother of the President of the United States, died in September. She was a notable American mother, greatly admired for her gracious qualities. SOPHRONIA BATEMAN, of Utah, celebrated her eighty-ninth birthday recently. She is a pioneer and Relief Society worker. Her descendants number 173. There are five generations. Anna H. L. Vincent was also feted by her family. She reached the age of 101 in September. She is a pioneer of Utah and has over one hundred descendants. SARAH PALFREY COOKE, of New York City, won the women's championship at the world tennis tournament held at Forest Hills in September. Helen Jacobs and Alice Marble, both professional now, are out of competition. MARGARET STEED'S The Sun is My Undoing, Jane Nicholson's Shelter, Mary Roberts Rhinehart's Familiar Faces and Amazon Throne by Bertita Harding, are among the list of worthwhile books for fall reading.  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE