Notes to THE FIELD Acentennial Commemorativbe Book SPECIAL centennial commemorative book will be issued by the General Board about May 1, 1942. This book, consisting of 96 pages, size 9x12 inches, will be chiefly pictorial, setting forth in picture and story the history of the Relief Society from its beginning to and including the general centennial celebration in April, 1942. This book will be bound in a blue paper book cover with its title "A Centenary of Relief Society" and the centennial insignia stamped in gold. The price of the book is to be fifty cents per copy, postpaid. The "Centenary of Relief Society" will make an appropriate and welcome gift, and will be off the press just in time for Mothers' Day in May, 1942. The General Board will send a special gift card with all copies of the book which are designated as gifts. The 'centennial commemorative book will be historically accurate and will bring together for the first time in a single volume pictures, information, and historical material relating to the Relief Society which cannot be procured elsewhere in one place. It will be an official souvenir of interest and value to all women of the Church and will become increasingly valuable as time goes on. All stake and ward Relief Society presidents have been issued a list of historical material, and rules for its submittal, concerning which the General Board would like to receive pictures and facts to be considered for use in the centennial book. Ward presidents will make repeated announcement of the General Board's request for historical Relief Society material, and all Relief Society members who may have the desired historical pictures and facts are requested to cooperate with their ward presidents in making them available for the use of the General Board. A limited edition of this book is contemplated, and it is realized that the demand for it may exceed the number which the General Board is now planning to print, especially in view of the exceptionally low price of fifty cents per copy. Because of the increasing difficulty, due to the national emergency, of procuring quantities of paper on short notice, ? a reprint on short notice in order to supply the demand might not be possible. In order not to disappoint the many members of the Relief Society who will want copies of the centennial book for themselves and for gifts to others, the General Board has asked all Relief Society Magazine representatives to begin at once to take advance orders for "The Centenary of Relief Society." These advance orders will be of great help to the General Board in determining the number to be printed, and those who order in advance will have their copies reserved for them. Orders may be placed at any time between _ now and publication of the book, and will be filled in the order in which they are received. Orders cannot be accepted without the remittance of fifty cents per copy. Page 687 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941