work toward a common goal must of necessity have a leader. This is as true of a church as it is of a political organization. Leadership, then, grows out of the nature of society. Jesus set the standard for leadership. When the mother of two of His disciples wished to have Him give precedence to her sons, He said: "Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister." (Matthew 20:20-28) The leaders of our Church, whether general or local, are striving to live up to this high standard. They have not set themselves up as leaders, but have been chosen by those having authority. Faith in God leads naturally to faith in those whom He has chosen to hold office in the Church. Church officers are chosen and set apart in their positions by those holding the Priesthood. "We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof." (Articles of Faith, Article 5.) It is not possible for any man to achieve perfection of character on the earth. Therefore, freedom from. Every human fault is not to be expected of any man. A small failing in a leader ought not to blind one's eyes to great and good qualities in him. Besides, every Latter-day Saint is given the opportunity to vote upon leadership in the Church, whether in the ward, in the stake, or in the general organization. It is only a matter of fairness, therefore, that once the leader has been sustained, he should receive the unrestrained loyalty of those over whom he has been chosen to preside. This is his due. Faith in the leaders of the Church may be shown in several ways: (1) by refraining from adverse criticism of them in the home or elsewhere, because this has a tendency to destroy confidence in them both in the minds of those who criticize and 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT in the minds of those who hear the criticism, and because its effect on the personality is unwholesome; (2) by attendance at the Sacrament meetings, by responding to whatever call is made of us by the authorities of the Church, and by showing a spirit of cooperation and helpfulness in Priesthood and auxiliary organizations which are carrying forward 709 the work of the Church. In doing these things, we express our faith in the Lord as well as in his servants. Questions for Discussion 1. What effect on one's self and others does destructive criticism have? 2. What did Jesus mean when he said, "Judge not that ye be not judged'? 3. Why is faith in our leadership an expression of faith in God? Te WVork-andBusiness Better Buymanship Lesson 4 Man-Made Fibers in the Spotlight (Tuesday, January 13, 1942) NO product has had such a difficult time establishing a reputation for itself and making known its identity, as rayon. Though it was patented in 1884, it is regarded as a product of the twentieth century. Its manufacture began in the United States in 1911, but it was not until 1924 that it was undertaken seriously. Within the last ten years, rayon has become an important factor in the American textile picture. A Frenchman, Count Helaire de Chardonnet, while attempting to produce artificial silk discovered that cellulose chemically treated would make a fiber. As a result, this new fiber became first known as "artificial silk." However, it had few, if any, of the qualities of silk. Instead, it is another fiber with characteristics and properties of its own. At first it was crude, ugly, with little durability and a cheap metallic luster. Years later, it was given the name of "rayon." Many people today do not know what rayon is or how it will act. Salesclerks, because of ignorance or to take advantage of the consumer, speak of it as silk rayon or sometimes just silk. Today we see rayon in very beautiful and very sleazy materials. It is used in combination with all other fibers and also alone, with finishes to make it resemble other fibers. Its use in table linens is becoming quite common. It is used in blankets, and has become extensively used in combination with wool in varying percentages for dress, suit, and coat materials. It is made into many beautiful materials that cannot be distinguished from silk. One fact that has caused much confusion is that rayon has taken on the names of silk materials, such as crepes, taffetas, satins, and velvets. In 1937, the Federal Trade Commission issued trade practice regulations regarding rayon which required that fabrics containing rayon should bear labels giving the kinds of fibers used in the fabrics and the percentages of each by weight. If the material is composed of rayon plus another fiber, the fiber composing the larger part should be listed first. Because rayon is exceedingly weak when wet, it is difficult to care for. Even when dry it is not nearly so strong as silk, but when wet, it loses from two-fifths to three-fourths of its original strength. For this reason, it must never be soaked, rubbed, wrung out, or, if the article is heavy, hung up to dry. Instead, it should be rolled in a towel to absorb excess moisture, and it should be ironed while damp. Rayon lacks elasticity, having only about two percent, and elongation takes place in rayon fabrics. These qualities make articles made from rayon wrinkle readily and become baggy and out of shape. Today we see and hear much about spun rayon. Spun rayon is made by cutting the continuous lengths into short lengths called 'rayon staples," which must then be spun as other short fibers. Rayon staples can be made in all lengths, in various thicknesses or sizes, shiny or dull, giving the widest range of possibilities in fabric creation. Some rayon fabrics are given a permanent crimp to resemble wool. Generally speaking, spun rayonmixture fabrics are crush resistant either because of texture or finish. The woolen-like types of fabrics are soft to the skin and are usually cooler than real wool. They may be had with ? shrinkage-controlled treatments and water-repellent surfaces. Many rayon fabrics have been developed into washable materials. However, because the care for rayons is so varied, it is wise to know at the time of purchase whether or not the material can be laundered or whether it must be dry cleaned. Acetate rayons require more careful treatment than other rayons, because they are melted by too hot an iron. A very cool iron must be used to prevent damage. Even when a cool iron is used, pressing over seams or thick places results in holes long before the article is worn out. To prevent injury to the fabric from ironing, pressing, or cleaning, it is best to know whether or not the article is made from acetate rayon. This can be determined by burning a small sample. Most rayons burn in a bright flame leaving a_ grey feathery ash much like cotton, while acetate rayons melt, drip, and leave a crisp, black, shiny ball with a slight odor of acetic acid. If the material is composed of both types of rayon, this can be revealed by soaking a bit of it in fingernail polish-remover containing acetone. The acetate rayon will dissolve, leaving the other unhurt. When carefully chosen and handied, rayons will prove quite satisfactory, but one must realize their limitations. NOTHER man-made material receiving much recognition is nylon. It is characterized by its extreme toughness, elasticity, strength, and resistance to abrasion. Nylon is also flame proof, will withstand higher temperatures than other fabrics, and will dry much faster because it absorbs less moisture. It 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT is proof against moth and mildew. And is as strong when wet as when dry. In spite of all these excellent qualities, nylon will snag and will run very readily, so nylon hosiery must be handled with as much care as any other hosiery. Other fibers being read about and experimented with are vinyarn, vinylite, soya-bean fiber, glass fiber, and casein fiber. Little definite information can be given about these, since these and many others are in the experimental process, but the future looks exceedingly hopeful for synthetic materials. An understanding of fabrics is the basis of the selection of all household and clothing materials. Wise consumers will use all the knowledge they have available, analyze 711 their past mistakes, and not make the same mistakes twice. Suggested Activities 1. Show what happens to acetate rayon under a hot iron. 2. Show tests to distinguish acetate from regenerated rayons. (See Better Buymanship Bulletin No. 23, "Fabrics," page 32; also see footnote.) 3. Examine samples of rayons of various types and qualities. Can tests used to determine qualities of other materials be used on rayon? 4. Show, if they can be obtained, samples of materials made from nylon and more recent synthetic materials. Note: Because of the lack of available space in the Magazine, the General Board has sent to each stake a list of references in blue bulletin No. 15, suitable for use in presenting this lesson. 'These references may be procured from stake workand-business leaders.