actor in the motivation of their daily lives; second, if the objective is to be realized, it should bear fruit during the period of testimony bearing that is to follow the presentation of the lesson. This testimony period becomes, in reality, the laboratory in which the beauties of the Gospel plan are shown as determining factors in the lives of Latter-day Saints. The measure of the success of this lesson will be found in the extent to which its objective sets the theme for the testimonies that are borne. To achieve this goal, the questions must be prepared with care in advance of the meeting, in order to direct the discussion away from trivialities and to concentrate on the objective of the lesson. For assistance in the formulating of questions, consult J. T. Wahlquist's Teaching as the Direction of Activities, pp. 117-125. 'The class leader should, as the lesson progresses, summarize the contributions of the class members and direct their thinking toward a definite understanding of the Atonement, but more important still, she should lead them to appreciate deeply the results of the atoning sacrifice of our Lord. Topics for Special Reports 1. Explain the difference in the meaning of the word "atonement" (a) as used in the "Old Testament," (See "Bible Dictionary," based on "Cambridge Companion to the Bible," found in some editions of the Bible, under title of "Sacrifice") and (b) the modern theological 707 usage. (See Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 252-257; Articles of Faith, pp. 74- 75:); 2. Define or explain the meaning of: atonement, Savior, Messiah, Jesus, Christ, and Jesus the Christ. Consult "Bible Dictionary," based on "Cambridge Com. Panion to the Bible," under these various titles. 3. Distinguish between the results of the Atonement as it influences general salvation and special salvation (or exaltation). 4. If possible, secure someone who joined the Church during her mature years and have her relate the impressions, the feelings of joy and hope that the Latterday Saint concept of the Atonement gave to her when she heard its message. Questions and Problems 1. What had brought about the situation that placed mankind in need of a sacrificial mediator? 2. To what did mankind need to be reconciled? 3. In what sense was the Atonement of Christ a sacrifice? 4. Why was Jesus of Nazareth the only person who could perform the Atonement? 5. In what respect does the Atonement of Christ have any influence on your life today? 6. What hope does the Atonement give amidst the uncertainties of mortality? 7. How can we make our children more fully appreciate the priceless heritage that is ours through the Atonement of Christ? 8. What does it mean to you to know that death has no permanent binding power over your soul? G. What value does this knowledge of a release from sin and a promise of forgiveness have to you as you live day by day? 10. To what extent should we testify in our testimony meetings of the meaning of such personal feelings as we have concerning the Atonement? References Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 4, PP 74-95, 476-479. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 17-31. Talmage, Vitality of Mormonism, pp 48-68. John Taylor, Mediation and Atonement. Bible, Leviticus 16; Revelations 20. Book of Mormon, II Nephi 9; Alma 42; Ether 3. 269 Doctrine and Covenants 19:16-19, 76, 128. Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 264- Gospel Doctrine, pp. 252-257. S Visiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 4 Loyalty to Church Leadership As An Expression of Faith (Tuesday, January 6, 1942) VERY group of persons, large or small, who wish to