To Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 3 Stepping Toward Marriage Through Courtship (Tuesday, January 27, 1942) Lesson Aim: To discover some of the factors in courtship which make for success or failure in marriage. HE boy and girl friendships of childhood and early adolescence eventually give way to the more mature and emotionalized attachments of courtship. As young people grow older, they quite naturally start thinking seriously of marriage and begin looking around, in an exploratory 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT way, for a mate. Courtship is the period immediately preceding marriage in which young people associate with each other in pairs, because of mutual attraction, and for the purpose of choosing a mate and preparing for marriage. Successful courtship goes a long way toward laying the foundations for successful marriage, and the mistakes or failures of courtship, on the other hand, are often responsible for the disappointments and failures of marriage. It is important, then, that we understand the problems of young people during this period, so that we can better help them over the pitfalls of courtship and guide them into happy and lasting marriage relationships. The Romantic Fallacy Not all societies choose mates for marriage upon the basis of sentiment, affection, and romance, as does ours. Most societies, in fact, look toward more practical considerations: Is he a good provider? Is she a good cook? Does the person considered have good health, et cetera? With many peoples the marriage matches are arranged by parents or relatives, and the actual participants have little, if anything, to say about the matter. But even so, these couples often learn to love each other and to make genuine successes of their marriage relationships. Few places in the world have as high a divorce rate as the United States, and yet it is here that most emphasis is put upon the idea of romance in courtship and marriage. Here romance is overemphasized. The romantic fallacy is not the belief in love and affection alone, because certainly every marriage should have 7 some of that, but rather it is the belief that love or romance is everything that needs to be considered in choosing a mate or in making one happy. It is a fallacy because it is false; when lovers become too absorbed in love, they are prone to forget some of the more practical things that are equally important to successful marriage. It is no wonder that our young people are so often swept off their feet by romantic infatuation, for almost everything they do in courtship stimulates and reinforces the idea. The modern novel and the picture show usually depict the struggles and conflicts of courtship, highly flavored with romantic passion, and then end with marriage and the assumption that all conflict is over and that eternal bliss is certain. 'These modern fairy tales, although they do not say "they lived happily ever after," imply as much. Their harm lies in their overemphasis on romance and erotic stimulation, and upon the unreal picture of life they paint in the minds of those who follow them. 'The popular song, which is given so much attention in the dance hall and on the radio and elsewhere, does very much the same thing; it stimulates the sentiments and builds up the idea that love is all that matters. Now this is the fallacy or the illusion that so many of our young people are living under. They are often in love with love, and nothing more; they see their lover through colored glasses, rather than with clear vision; they are blinded by romance. What is needed is a more realistic approach to the problems of both courtship and marriage. Love is important, but it isn't all-important. 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941

 And furthermore, love is something more than the physical passions and the emotional infatuations that are satisfied in the romantic complex. Love is something that deepens and grows with close and continued association and with the sacrifices and adjustments of married life. 'There is no such thing as love at first sight, although there may be the beginning of love at first sight. Someone has expressed the thought that one seldom marries the one he loves, but often learns to love the one he marries. This perhaps overstates the point, because couples are often well on the road to love before marriage, but the thought is that love which begins during courtship may enlarge and develop after marriage. And it will do so, if at all, through sacrifice, adjustment, and understanding. 'True love is companionship on the physical, emotional, intellectual, and spiritual planes, and this all-inclusive companionship cannot be found in a day; it must be built up realistically through years of working, playing, and living together. Chastity and Related Problems The conduct of children during courtship is the worry of every parent, for at this time the passions of the young are strong, temptations they are subjected to are many, and the controls of parents over them are less direct than formerly. But parents will do well to remember that a psychological weaning from the home nest is both natural and necessary, as is also the normal, process of courtship. If children have been given adequate knowledge and the proper ideals with which to guide their conduct, the chances are they will not go far astray. Parents should, of course, be concerned and should give help and _ guidance where possible, but they will do well to allow their children a normal amount of freedom and to avoid worry and anxiety as much as possible. ~"Necking," "petting," and "pitching woo" are some of the popular slang expressions used by young people today to indicate the kissing and caressing that is so often a part of courtship behavior. This is not the place to analyze the problem in any detail, but we do feel safe in making the following general points: (1) "Necking" is particularly objectionable and dangerous when it is engaged in intimately, frequently, and between persons who care very little for each other. There is too much exploitation in courtship; too much selfishness; too much of the idea, especially on the part of boys, of going "as far as she will let me." These mote or less intimate caresses of lovers should be mutually sincere. Furthermore, they should be reserved in the main until about the time of engagement, and even then they should be engaged in with reserve and moderation. Nothing should be done during courtship that will tend to destroy one's respect for himself or for the other person. (2) The chief dangers of "necking" are: first, it may cheapen the friendship and kill the respect so necessary for enduring love; second, it may stimulate unreasoned infatuation and result in a marriage that is ill-planned and between mates that are poorly matched; third, it may help to build up in the minds of the participants a shallow and false conception of love; fourth, LESSON DEPARTMENT it may lead from the less to the more intimate types of behavior until finally chastity itself is lost. There is no way of accurately determining the extent of unchastity in this country, but according to a number of estimates and other indications, it is high enough to be very definitely alarming. Dorothy Dunbar Bromley and Florence Haxton Britten in their recent book Youth and Sex, for example, indicate that about one-fourth of the girls and about one-half of the boys in college have had sexual relations. 'Their study was based upon 1,300 college students whom they contacted in various colleges throughout the land, and while their figures may be an overstatement because of the type of sample studied, they do emphasize the seriousness of the problem. Unchastity is perhaps less common in Utah and among our Latterday Saint people than in the nation at large. But even though less common, it is nevertheless frequent enough in our own communities to constitute a real problem and to challenge the attention of every thinking person in the Church. Sexual purity is one of the highest and most sacred principles of the Church, adultery being regarded as a sin second only to murder in seriousness. 'This alone should be incentive enough for clean living. But even aside from the religious and moral aspects of the problem, it is not difficult to find reasons aplenty for chastity. Margaret Banning, in her Reader's Digest article of August, 1937, called "The Case for Chastity," outlines most of these in a very clear and interesting manner. Briefly, her objections to unchastity 719 are as follows: (1) the danger of pre-marital pregnancy, with the resulting unsavory alternative of either induced abortion, illigitimacy, or a hasty and usually unwise marriage; (2) the danger of contracting one of the social diseases, with all of the stigma and expense and suffering that this involves; (3) the social penalty attached, which takes its toll through the loss of respect and influence; (4) and finally, the emotional and psychological price that one must pay through worry, fear, nervousness, et cetera. Hamilton, Davis, and others who have made careful statistical studies on happiness in marriage have all found that those individuals who have been unchaste before marriage are much less likely to be happy in marriage than those who have not. Truly the price for those who would indulge is great. But young people do not always realize this. And even when they do, they often find themselves in situations that make cool judgment and control very difficult. 'The task before parents, and others who would help, is a task of wise counsel and guidance. This is not an easy thing to do, but here are a few suggestions that may be of value: (1) understand your children and keep their confidences, so that you can reach them in their hour of need and assist them in their most personal problems; (2) see that the sex education of your children is properly taken care of so that their knowledge of the subject is adequate and their attitudes are healthy; (3) develop in your children, with the aid of religion, a strong sense of right and wrong and the power of self-control; (4) guide your children in their choice of partners, and counsel them 720 on behavior during courtship. It is well known, for example, that alcohol inflames the passions and at the same time reduces the power of judgment and self-control. It is also known that "necking," especially when engaged in experimentally and somewhat selfishly as a pastime, often leads to more intimate types of behavior and even to the loss of virtue. If young people could be made to realize these things a little more, if they were better trained from their early childhood, and if they could have the confiding help of the experienced in times when it is most needed, they would be able to avoid the pitfalls of courtship in greater numbers and would thereby be able to lay better foundations for successful marriage. Specific Preparation for Marriage We have seen that the first background for successful marriage is laid in the parental home through such things as good birth, healthy personality development, and education for family life. We have seen also that the attitudes and the behavior of courtship help to either make or mar a person's chances for happiness in marriage later on. But aside from these more or less general foundations for successful marriage, there are a number of rather specific ones that are usually made by the couple not long before the ceremony is performed. The first of these is the choice of a mate. Young people start the process of selection in the early stages of courtship when they "date" periodically with a number of partners on a friendship basis; they narrow their selection when they start "going steady"; they make their 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1941

 selection or choice rather final when they become engaged. The difficult part of the choice is knowing when to let the head rule and when to let the heart rule. Parents can help by sympathetic understanding and wise counsel, but they should avoid imposing their own choices upon their children. If young people could be made to realize that the head should come first, especially in the early stages of courtship when the field from which selections are to be made is being narrowed down, if they could face this problem a little more realistically and a little less romantically, if they could be made to use their heads a little more before marriage and their hearts a little more after marriage, their choices of life partners would be far better and their chances for success in marriage would be far greater. Such things as morality, character, health, disposition, intelligence, and similarity in interests and backgrounds, are important considerations in choosing a mate; and in most cases it is foolish to think of "reforming" the one you love after the ceremony has been performed. Love is important, too, but if the object of one's affections is chosen carefully and rationally, the early and somewhat immature love of courtship can be permitted to ripen into the eternal love of marriage; otherwise it may flicker out and die. Engagement. Symbolizes a final choice of marriage partners and is for the purpose of making the last necessary preparations and adjustments before the marriage ceremony. Courtship behavior during this period will quite naturally tend to be on a little more intimate level, and for this reason, couples should LESSON DEPARTMENT be extra cautious to maintain the same reserve and good judgment that characterized their earlier associations, so that the things for marriage will be left until marriage, and so that nothing will happen to mar their love and respect for each other. There are many problems that will need to be talked over before marriage; those who are engaged will want to come to a common understanding on such things as religion, education, money, and children. Physical examinations for both man and woman are another very important thing that every engaged couple should attend to. They will want to voluntarily present themselves before a competent physician about a month or six weeks prior to the time for the marriage ceremony in order that they may be examined for disease or physical abnormalities and that they may be given information and advice regarding the important relationships of married life. A great many mistakes and disappointments could be avoided if the pre-marital physical examination were resorted to more frequently. Finally, the engaged couple will want to make rather definite plans as to the time and kind of ceremony, the honeymoon, the place of residence afterwards, et cetera. Rational courtship is one of the foundations of successful marriage. Problems and Projects 1. What are the most important things to consider in choosing a mate? What do you think of the advice that one should use his head more before marriage and his heart more after marriage? What is the romantic fallacy? Is it safe to marry a person on the basis of love alone with the hope of reforming him after marriage? 721 How far should parents go in helping their children choose marriage partners? 2. Should a couple wait until marriage for their first kiss? Is it all right for a couple to kiss on the first date? What are the major objections to intimate "neck- "petting" during courtship, and how can young people be helped to use judgment and control in these matters? 3. Discuss the problem of chastity from the following standpoints: (a) causes of unchastity; (b) objections to unchastity; and (c) remedies, or ways of improving the situation. 4. Discuss the engagement as a step in the preparation for marriage. How long do you think an engagement should be? Why? Under what circumstances is one justified in breaking an engagement? Why? Discuss the pros and cons of pre-marital medical examinations. 5. Look back in your own lives upon the days when you were courting, and in the spirit of self-analysis, see if you can pick out those things that have helped to make your marriage successful. Would these same things apply to the young people of today? How can you pass your experiences on to them? References Anderson, Venice F., "Courtship," Improvement Era, January, 1928, pp. 198- 207. Baber, Ray E., Marriage and the Family, McGraw Hill, N. Y., 1939, pp. 142-200, 561-583. Baber, R. E., "They Know What They _ Want," Parents' Magazine, March, 1937, pp. 20-21. Banning, Margaret C., "The Case for Chastity," The Reader's Digest, August, 1937, PP. 1-10. Baykin, E., "Should Mothers be Matchmakers?", Parents' Magazine, August, 1936, pp. 20-21. Burkhart, Roy A., From Friendship to Marriage, Harpers, N. Y., 1937, PP. 1-110. Butterfield, Oliver M., "To Live Happily Even After," The ' Reader's Digest, May, 1936, pp. 27-30. Dittrick, H., "Getting Ready for Marnage," Hygeia, June, 1939, pp. 515-520. Elliott, Mable A., and Merrill, Francis E,. Social Disorganization, Harpers, N. Y., 1935, Pp- 460-475. Folsom, Joseph K., Plan for Marriage, Harpers, N. Y., 1938, pp. 1-28, 72-112. Folsom, Joseph K., "Finding a Mate in Modern Society," The Reader's Digest, July, 1938, pp. 56-58. Groves, E. R., Marriage, Henry Holt, N. Y., 1933, PP. 75-155. Groves, E. R., "When He Comes a Courting," Good Housekeeping, September, 1937, pp. 28-29. Hart, Hornell and Ella B., Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., N. Y., 1935, pp. 52-126. Lawton, S. W., "Women Men Marry," Forum, July 1939, pp. 33-35: McConaughy, James L., "Now That You are Engaged," Good Housekeeping, October, 1937, pp. 28-29. McKay, David O., "As Youth Contemplates an Eternal Partnership," Improvement Era, March, 1938, pp. 136- 139, 191. Rice, T. B., "Choice of a Marriage Mate," Hygeia, February, 1938, pp. 122- 124, Waller, Willard, The Family: A Dynamic Interpretation, Cordon Co., N. Y., 1938, pp. 173-302. Williams, Helen Spencer, "Romance," Improvement Era, June, 1938, pp. 330- 331, 380-383. Williams, Helen Spencer, "You Are Going To Be Married," Relief Society Magazine, June, 1938, p. 380.