Plan For Mlemortzing She Articles Of Faith Reprinted by permission of E. Frank Soderborg God? 1. We believe in God the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. Men? 2. We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression. Mankind? 38. We believe that, through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 4 Principles? 4. We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, Repentance; third, Baptism by immersion for the remission ig fourth, laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy ost. Hands? 5. We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof. 6th of April? 6. We believe in the same organization that existed in the Primitive Church; namely, apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, ete. 7 Tongues? 7. We believe in the gift of tongues, prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, interpretation of tongues, etc. Translate? 8. We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. Divine? 9. We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God. 10 Tribes? 10. We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes; that Zion will be built upon this [the American] continent; that Christ will reign personally upon the earth; and, that the earth will be renewed and, receive its paradisiacal glory. Odd One? 11. We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may. 12th Kings? 12. We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law. 18th Cor. 18. We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul?We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things.?Joseph Smith. NOTES The first article refers to God. The second article refers to men. The third article refers to mankind. In memorizing these first three we remember that God is first, men second, and mankind third, in order. The fourth article refers to the first four principles of the Gospel. The fifth article refers to "laying on of hands." Hands suggests five fingers. The sixth article refers to organization and is suggestive of the sixth of April, the date on which the Church was organized. The seventh article refers to tongues; being plural, we say seven tongues. Number eight rhymes with translate. (8 witnesses.) Number nine rhymes with divine?revelations. The tenth article refers to the ten tribes. The eleventh article we remember as the odd one and commences with, 'We claim," et cetera. The twelfth article refers to kings, Kings being plural, we say, twelve kings. The a article refers to a passage in the thirteenth chapter of First orinthians. Theole gy and Sestimony Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 4 CHAPTER 4, THE ATONEMENT AND SALVATION Article 3?"We believe that through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel." (Tuesday, January 6, 1942) I. Lesson Aum To understand the nature of the Atonement of Christ and how it affects our lives during mortality as well as in our postmortal state. II. Divisions of the Subject Matter A. The nature and purpose of the Atonement of Christ. (Articles of Faith, pp. 74- 79) B. The motives that prompted Christ to make the Atonement. (Articles of Faith, PP- 79-81, 477-478) C. The Atonement _ foreordained and foretold. (Articles of Faith, pp. 81-85, 476-477) D. The scope and general effect of the Atonement. (Articles of Faith, pp. 85- 89, 477) EK. The effect of the Atonement on the individual. (Articles of Faith, pp. 89- 9 III. Suggestions to Teachers The subject matter of this lesson is composed of material Page 706 that is common knowledge to most Latter-day Saints. The class leader should lead the class discussion, through the use of questions that will draw upon the general information of the group. The class leader should be very conscious of the objective of this lesson and see that her questions direct the thought of the class toward a realization of that objective. Latter-day Saints are often accused by the Christian world of knowing more about the Atonement, but feeling it less inwardly and spiritually than other Christians. To some extent this charge may be justified, because we are prone to talk about the facts and theories of the Atonement to the exclusion of its relationship to daily life and its personal worth to each individual. We should know more about the Atonement and also feel it more deeply than any other Christian group, because we have more information concerning its nature and purpose, due to latter-day revelation. Two factors must be kept in mind LESSON DEPARTMENT as the teacher leads the discussion: first, there must be a consistent attempt to get the class members to express the various ways in which the doctrine of the Atonement has appealed to them or become a determining f