The Striped Pencil Eva Willes Wangsgaard 6? I'LL give it to you now, Celinda," and Judith Rawson twitled a red, white, and blue pencil in her small fingers. "But I don't want it," Celinda said, and she tossed her light brown ringlets in emphasis. "Why don't you want it? Two days ago you were wild about it. You said you wouldn't play with me any more if I didn't give it to you. Now you won't take it. Why?" Celinda flashed a knowing smile. "Teacher's going to give us new pencils today. I saw the box on her desk." So that was it. Judith looked at the three inches of striped pencil. Monday it had been a new one. She had brought it to school and reveled in the envy of the whole third-grade class. But it hadn't proved as good as it was pretty. It kept breaking, and now there was hardlv any pencil left. Judith thought over the situation. Teacher would have the new pencils passed and would instruct the monitor to pass Judith by because Judith would have this one. Miss Warnock would say that no child needed two. Then she thought of her playmates. How they would laugh and tease her, especially the ones who had coaxed hardest for the bright tool on Monday! "Stingy! Stingy! See what you get." She couldn't bear even to think of it. The teacher announced recess. Judith found a place under the wooden steps and sat down to think things over. She couldn't take the pencil home. She couldn't put it back in Father's desk now. It was so short. Father would know that someone had taken it out and used it. Margie would remember how she had coaxed Father for it when it was new, and Artie would torment her. Her eyes smarted. She knew she shouldn't have taken it. What could she do? She couldn't bear to have Father look at her the way he would when he found out what had happened. He had said that he couldn't give it to one when all three of the children wanted it, so he had put it into the little hidden drawer in his desk. It didn't help much to remember that he had intended to give it to Judith before the other children saw it and wanted it too. He hadn't - given it to her. She had taken it. Now she didn't even want it. She crawled out from her hiding place. Maybe Arnold would like it. But Arnold had heard about the new pencils. So had Mary and Hazel and Blanche. Recess time was nearly gone. You couldn't throw a red, white, and blue pencil down in the schoolyard or in the grass. It stood out bright as a peacock. Somebody would pick it up and take it to teacher and say, "Here's Judith Rawson's pencil." 'Then Miss Warnock would ask where she had got such a pretty one. All of a sudden there was a dreadful pain in her throat. She wondered if she were going to have scarlet fever all over again. Page 673 She ran to the creek. 'lhe water went slipping by in little ripples. Judith looked around. Nobody was paying any attention. She leaned over the stream and opened her fingers. The bright strip of wood floated away like a little red, white, and blue canoe. Judith sighed and straightened up. The pencil was gone, but the hurt in her throat was still there. Maybe it was even worse. The bell rang. 'The first grade gathered in a wriggly line before the east door of the little two-room schoolhouse. Judith stood with the second and third-grade pupils at the west door. Miss Warnock stood on the stoop with the handle of the bell tucked up her long sleeve. "Order!" she commanded. 'The buzzing stopped. The organ began to play Marching Through Georgia, and the children filed in. Judith had never taken her seat and sat so quietly before. 'Teacher was pleased and called on her to pass the pencils. Judith stood up, and her spirits rose with her. She could have a pencil after all. No one had told Miss Warnock. N the way home, Judith kept fingering her slender golden treasure. It wasn't round, but it had six corners. She felt its sharp edges. She had never seen anything more beautiful. But something was still wrong. She didn't feel well. Something ached inside, and looking at the pencil somehow made it worse. At supper, Mother asked, "Are you ill, Judith?" Judith shook her head, but she sat too still and couldn't eat much. Food refused to be pushed down her throat. There didn't seem to be room. After supper, when the dishes had been washed and wiped, Margie and Judith sat at the dining table with their books. Father came in from his chores, washed his hands, and sat down in the wicker rocker with the paper. Suddenly he looked up. ""Weren't report cards due today?" he asked. "Yes. Oh, yes!" and the children ran to get their cards, and then presented them proudly. Father examined them. He beamed. "Not one low mark. Not one complaint." The children waited expectantly. "Why, Judith," Father _ said, "what a wonderful record! All excellents! You should have something for that. What shall it be? A kiss?" He kissed both the girls. "Maybe we can find something that lasts longer." He went to the desk. He opened the "secret" drawer. Judith's brown eyes opened in -alarm. She stood stiff and shivery. Father looked back at her. She dropped her eyes and studied the little spider webs of white thread in the blue squares of the checked gingham cushion of the chair. "Where is the pencil, Judith?" -he asked. "In the creek," said Judith. "Was it an accident?" asked Father. Judith was very still. "Was it an accident?" Father repeated. "No, sir," Judith whispered. "Tell me about it," he said. Judith told. Father sat very thoughtful. Finally he began to speak. "You realize, don't you, Judith, that if ou continue doing tricks like this you'll be just like that pencil? You'll look all right outside, but you'll be 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941

 THE STRIPED PENCIL weak and useless inside.-What good is a perfect report card if you have a faulty, too faulty, character?" "No good," Judith answered. "But you are different from the pencil. Nobody can give it a new lead, but you can make yourself as strong inside as you make up your mind to be." "Yes, sir," said Judith. 'How do you intend to go about it?" Father asked. Judith thought. She would offer to pick gooseberries. 'That ought to make anybody strong inside. 'The work was so slow and the limbs were so prickly. But gooseberries wouldn't be ready for months. She thought again. "T could do the supper dishes alone for a whole week," she said, but it seemed like a dreadful doom. Father just waited. Evidently he was not satisfied. Judith thought and considered what would be likely to make a person grow stronger inside. "I would read the Bible, too," she thought aloud. "You could tell me which verses." Father rested his nght hand on her head a moment; then he rose and took the Bible off its shelf in the bookcase. It was a great book, much heavier than a child could lift, and the beginning letters on all the chapters were fancy and written in gold. Father laid it carefully down on the table under the hanging lamp and drew up a chair for Judith. He turned the pages until he found the right place; then he went back to the wicker rocker and picked up a book to read. Judith stole a peek. It was David Harum. Judith turned back: to the Bible. 675 AT the top of the page was the word "PROVERBS." The outside column was headed "Chapter XX." At first, she couldn't understand what she read about things like iniquity and scorners, kings, mockers, and wine. But there must be something helpful here because Father always had a reason for what he made her do. The fifth verse made her stop and think: "Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of understanding will draw it out." She remembered that something in Father had drawn from her heart the thing that had been troubling her, and she remembered how silently he had waited for her to draw upon her own counsel. But she knew she had not yet found the verse Father had meant for her to find.. The answer was not in the next verse, either, but she stopped and thought again after reading number seven: "The just man walketh in his integrity: his children are blessed after him." She wanted to ask Father what "integrity" meant, but he would just say, "consult the dictionary," so she did. But she still couldn't see. She wrote the word on a piece of paper and took it to Mother who was setting the sponge for bread. Mother said that it meant being good through and through. Judith went back to her Bible and reread the verse. Maybe that was what Father had wanted her to see ?that it wasn't the value of the pencil that mattered, though a pencil like that would cost a dime, and a dime was a lot of money, but it was the doing of a dishonest thing. And it wasn't the now that counted, either. She had met and faced that 676 difficulty and was paying for it. But it was that children grow up to be parents, and if they haven't "integrity," they can't live right themselves. So how could they be a help and a blessing to their own little children? But maybe even that was not all Father was trying to have her understand. She read on. Number nine said: "Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?" And numbers eleven and twelve: "Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure, and whether it be nght. "The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, the Lord hath made even both of them." So being bright in school was a gift lent by the Lord and must be carefully used. There was nothing again that Judith could apply until she came to verse fifteen: "There is gold, and a multitude of rubies: but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel." And there were striped pencils, too. Oh, someday she hoped to have touched the "lips of knowledge" that Father had! But it was the seventeenth verse that brought her the true understanding: "Bread of deceit is sweet 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1941

 to a man; but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel." Judith remembered the sweetness of Monday, when she had been the most sought after child in the school. And she remembered this afternoon, when she had sat under the steps with a great problem in her head and a pain in her throat that went way, way down. She was still ashamed, but understanding made her feel better. The badness inside the pencil didn't hurt, but the hurt inside a child made her do something about it. - Judith went and stood beside Father. He looked up from his reading and waited. "T have found it," Judith said. "The striped pencil was pretty, but it wasn't worth the price of taking something not mine. Are pretty things always not worth it?" "Not always," Father said, "but often. But you have that knowledge now, and that is a precious jewel. It is not pretty, but beautiful. It is all the more beautiful because you earned it. Tomorrow, I shall get you a small Bible all for your own. Would you like that, Judith?" Judith kissed him for answer and the pain was all gone.