How can we translate the refining influence of the Gospel into daily living? Ways and occasions are provided if we will make the effort. They are not new. Like the gold and silver in the earth, they have been with us a long time. We know them by name, but we have yet to realize them in rich measure. Let us consider some practical principles of living which will bring daily the refining influence of the Gospel into our consciousness. The ancient Mosaic law?"Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy" was a great blessing to the Jewish people. It meant rest from hard toil for man and beast. Men remembered their Creator on this day and His purpose in their creation. By the time Jesus was born, many Jews, in their eagerness to obey the Law of Moses, interpreted the Sabbath commandment as a series of prohibitions. Jesus broke with this negative view of religion and gave us a new and enriched understanding of the meaning of the Sabbath. As it now stands in the "New Testament" record and in the Doctrine and Covenants, we know that the keeping of this ancient law can be a. Positive and refining experience in modern life. When discovered healing the sick on the Sabbath, Jesus was accused of desecrating God's holy day. His teply was a question: "Is it lawful to save life or to lose it?" "Ts it lawful to do good?" "To heal?" The obvious answer is yes. By doing good, by offering encouragement and friendship to those in need, we sanctify the Lord's day. It is the 658, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1941

 one day in the week when, freed from mundane cares, we could devote our energy to bringing joy and strength to others. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 59, a second purpose of Sabbath day living is stated: "... Thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day... And to pay thy devotions unto the Most High;... Confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord." It is a day to worship God and to gain help and strength from him that we might have the desire and needed inspiration to go forth and do good. Jesus used to go up to the Mount of Olives and pray all night, and then he would go down and comfort and bless the children of men. He received strength and power from the Father with which to save the souls of men. Such was the essence of his life. The Sabbath is our opportunity to be truly Christ-like ? to commune with the Father and then go forth and do his will. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is the ordinance in the Church best adapted to bring the refining influence of worship into our lives. It is a renewal of our baptismal covenant in which we pledge?in the words of the Book of Mosiah?that we were "willing to come into the fold of God, and to be called his people, and... Bear one another's burdens, that they may be light; yea, and to mourn with those that mourn and comfort those in need of comfort, and stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places...." It is an occasion to remember Jesus and everything that he did and taught; a time to evaluate the quality of our own moral living using his life as a standard; a sacred hour in which we, in the presence of like believers, pledge our loyalty and devotion to Christ and his Gospel. Let us not let this ordinance become a routine practice which we disgrace by talking with our neighbors. Let it mean rather a spiritual renewal, a resurrection of our determination to be real disciples of Jesus. This means that we cleanse our hands and make clean our hearts and thoughts; that we beautify as much as possible the place and manner in which we commune with our Lord. THE home can provide another setting in which the refining influence of the Gospel may work in us. But again, this home influence must not be taken for granted; it needs. To be. Thoughtfully engendered. May we be suggestive? Let us spend more time at home as a family. This can be done by eliminating some outside interests, business and social, and by buildin a home program which will hold the interest of the children. They love to read, sing, converse and play. They slough work at every opportunity when left alone, but they will work unceasingly when parents work with them and make a game of it, commenting on their muscles and their achievements. In the democratic spirit of the Gospel we should plan life with our children. Have a definite time in which to pray, work, read, and play. Regularity in these essentials will refine and stabilize family life. Another suggestion is that we spend less money on the house and more on the home ? on music, THE REFINING INFLUENCE OF THE GOSPEL books, house-paint, aesthetic touches here and there, and liveability for each member of the home. Let us make it easier for children to learn respect for each other's property, rights, and duties. We must grant our children the stability, the strength, and the graciousness that come from having lived in a lovely Latter-day Saint home. Upon it may some day depend their faith in God, in their fellows, in themselves, and in all the refining influences of the Gospel. HERE are numerous ways in which the Gospel can beautify our lives individually. We-can suggest but a few. Enjoy life. Beautify yourself, your home, your yard, your Church, your community. Look up at the sky and unto the hills; feel the rain on your head; behold the flowers, the sunset, and, once in a while, the early dawn. Express your joy in smiles, song, play, words of affection and in deeds of good will. Don't be a pessimist! Have faith. Find things to live for?the happiness of your husband, the education of your children, the success of your Sunday School class, the making of a beautiful (not elegant) home. Lose your life in pursuit of these 659 goals. Believe in things and live for them. If they are noble you will become noble also; if not, you will discover it and discard your goals for higher ones. Find a time each day for quiet meditation and prayer. Make the Lord your confidant. Ask him to help you achieve your goals. Evaluate your own integrity. Weigh the values in life you ascribe to and resolve to be true to them. Refuse in these moments of privacy to be caught in the whirl of meaningless activity we have all experienced some time or other. Eliminate trivial, superficial talk, ceaseless wisecracking, and cheap novels, magazines and movies. Rid life of the love-destroying, soul-killing attitudes of envy, jealousy, anger, hate, selfishness, conceit, fear, worry, and remorse. Live the life of love and service. Live at peace with yourself by being honest and true to your convictions. Live at peace with the world by being generous, tolerant, and merciful. Begin at home. Let your neighbors in on it, and then your Church and community. Entertain charity toward all men. Let the Gospel in all its beauty and strength not only be our faith, but our life. "In proportion as we perceive and embrace the truth do we become just, heroic, magnanimous, divine." ?William Lloyd Garrison. The World-?Famed Salt Lake Tabernacle Organ Thomas Giles Head of Music Department, University of Utah THE TABERNACLE ORGAN IN EARLY DAYS THE tremendous vastness of the great West with its towering mountains and never-ending plains probably affected the lives and thoughts of all members of pioneer groups wending their way across the wastelands and the prairies. Their leaders foresaw huge industries, great cattle ranches, large flocks of sheep, immense stores of grain, et cetera. In the face of such experiences, is it any wonder that the people of the early days suw rising before their very eyes a building with Page 660 the world's largest unsupported roof, saw organized one of the land's largest choral groups, and heard glorious tones from one of the earth's greatest musical instruments! The Tabernacle organ was begun in January, 1866, less than twenty years after the arrival of the original pioneers, and more than a year and a half before the 'Tabernacle was completed. Joseph H. Ridges, who had. Been an organ builder in Australia, was placed in charge of the work. Mr. Ridges, well known to the writer in the days of his youth, was a Cultured individual as well as a skilled wood-working mechanic. He knew the various types of wood and metal necessary for all parts of the instrument, and he knew how they should be pieced together to form an organ. Samples of wood were procured from all parts of the state, and the proper type for the manufacture of the wooden pipes, of which there are many hundreds in the organ, was found near Parowan. This necessitated oxteam transport of the lumber for a distance of about two hundred fifty miles. Most of the lumber was fashioned on the Tabernacle grounds and glued with homemade glue procured by boiling cow and other hides. The glue was also made on the Tabernacle grounds. The magnificent instrument was first dedicated in October, 1867, with a total complement of seven hundred pipes, although work continued until the originally contemplated two thousand pipes were in place. On this first occasion, the organ was used chiefly as an accompaniment for the "well organized choir under the leadership of Professor George Careless." From the time of this original performance until the present, the instrument has consistently gained in size and importance. The original groupings of pipes constituted what is known as a two-manual and pedal organ with twenty-nine stops. The manuals, played by the hands, as the name implies, are complete sets of keys, which apply to separate organs. 'The complementing set of pedal keys are played by the feet. The original manuals had only fiftysix keys each (at present the number is seventy-three), while the pedals were twenty-seven in number (at present the number is thirty). A stop refers to a set of pipes corresponding to the numbers of keys stated above. Each stop thus controls a set of pipes and may be used singly or in any form of grouping, such as two stops, four stops, twenty-seven stops, et cetera. The action was the so-called "tracker" type, mechanical throughout, which made the manipulation of the keys a difficult one, especially ~ when the keys of the two manuals were coupled together. Graphite was used freely, and levers were made as long as practical in order to relieve the organist of as much physical strain on the fingers as possible with that type of action. This action is a bit of lever mechanism which operates directly from the depression of the key to. The valve which opens to permit the passage of air into the pipe, thereby causing the sound of the particular pipe or pipes, if connections are made, to ensue. 'This "tracker" action, the only type known at the time of the building of the original organ, remained in the organ until 1900. The console at that time (this term is used to define the grouping of the various keyboards and pedals), was located at the base of and immediately in the center of the organ and formed a part of the front of the case. The console occupied this position until the "tracker" action was abolished in 1900. The supply of air was originally furnished by a hand-manipulated bellows, which supplied air to the so-called wind chests or reservoirs and various pressures determined by large, pure lead bars placed atop the bellows and reservoirs. 'These bars bore the stamp "Great Salt Lake City Deseret." A later development applied hydraulic motors to the bellows, and these in turn were supplanted by electric motors which were again replaced by the presentday power blowers which maintain the constant pressure desired, without the aid of bellows or separate air reservoirs. HE first real change in the construction of the organ took place in 1885 when Niels Johnson enlarged the organ from 2000 to 2648 pipes and added one more manual, making a total of three. Mr. Johnson added two organs (solo and choir) to the three existing ones (great, swell, and pedal), making a total of five. These changes brought the instrument quite abreast of the times and spread its THE WORLD-FAMED SALT LAKE TABERNACLE ORGAN 661 fame as one of the great organs of the world. It was now compared favorably with the best Europe and the eastern states had to offer. The tone of the instrument has undoubtedly never been surpassed from the first, due to the miracle of perfect acoustics existing in its near where it now stands, and the pressure of air was increased in all of the separate organs. One new row of keys (manual) was also added, giving the organ a really large console of four manuals and sixty-one notes, and pedals of thirty notes. In the new arrangeTHE WORLD-FAMED TABERNACLE ORGAN AS IT LOOKS TODAY glorious abode, the Tabernacle. Report has it that the first renovation and enlargement of the instrument (1885) brought forth favorable comment from the public and press. Not so, however, with the second changes of 1900. Many felt that the character of the old organ had changed. Truly it had. The organ was now "grown up." It had been enlarged to a very considerable extent. New sets of pipes, unknown at the time the original organ was built, had been added; the console had been moved from the organ case to the front of the choir seats, ment of air and pipes, enlargement of scope and power, some felt that sweetness had been sacrificed. The fact is that much sweetness had been added. In the construction of older organs, one group of pipes was encased in a heavy box with opening shutters. The ability to expand the effect of tonal volume caused this organ to be known as the "swell" organ. At present, all organs with the exception of the pedal are enclosed and subject to the swelling and subsiding of the tone at the command of the organist. A large foot pedal, manipulated by the right 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941

 foot, is used for this effect?simply opening and closing felt-padded shutters on all sides of the box. 'This mechanism alone quadruples the "sweet" sounds. The growth of the daily organ recital again made increasing demands on the organ, with the result that the Church authorities sanctioned remodeling and enlarging the great instrument in 1915. As in previous renovations and alterations the organ was again enlarged, and to such an extent that the widening by thirty feet of the great case was made necessary. 'The case was originally a splendid copy of the organ in the Sydney, Australia, Town Hall, built of pine wood and stained a walnut color. The original consisted of a pattern of two large columns formed by groups of pipes (thirtytwo feet) separated by a broken arch and surmounted by large, ornate, almost crown-shaped caps, supported on the sides by two smaller columns of a similar nature. The widening process necessitated the addition of two columns with decorations to match and gave the west end of the Tabernacle a decorative scheme which practically covers the entire end of the building. These internal as well as external additions were of the greatest importance to performer and listener alike. The total rows of pipes became increased to 128, and the electropneumatic action of 1900 was now replaced by the newest all-electric action, making possible instantaneous contact with every pipe. One of the chief additions was the beautiful Celestial or Echo organ located beneath the floor in the extreme east end of the building, opposite the organ itself. Other important additions of this period were the Orchestral and String organs and the addition of many unique stops of pipes (rows) in the pedal and other organs. The organs as of 1915 were: Great Organ of 22 stops, not including the chimes and the seven row or rank string organ which can be used from the great manual, Celestial Organ of 9 stops, not including the Celesta (steel bars), Swell Organ of 22 stops, Orchestral Organ of 16 stops, Solo Organ of 14 stops, not including the Concert Harp (bars) and chimes, and the Pedal Organ of 27 stops, making a huge assemblage of more than 8000 pipes. To all of this must be added the various coupling devices (47 of them), the tremolos for each organ and the pistons (64 of them) for arranging different combinations of stops with pedals controlling separately or en masse the shutters referred to above. The organ heard today has an added dozen of stops to the above, constituting one of the world's largest and finest instruments. Many of the original pipes of the organ of 1867 are still giving valiant service in the present organ, the ones seen in the front center of the organ (gilt) particularly. These pipes remained silent from 1867 to 1915 due to the false notion that a round wooden pipe would not "speak." Brother Ridges must have smiled when they sang so sweetly after the 1915 remodeling. He knew when he made them that the proper application of air pressure would cause these carefully and beautifully made pipes to "speak." They do. THE WORLD-FAMED SALT LAKE TABERNACLE ORGAN 663 664 THE organ has always been favored with serious, earnest musicians at the console. The first regular organist was Joseph J. Daynes, a skilled musician and performer, who functioned prior to 1870. The writer's father, Henry E. Giles, when a boy of fifteen years served while Brother Daynes was East studying (1874-1875). Organist Daynes retained his post longer than any of his successors to date. He retired in 1899. John J. McClellan, who inaugurated the daily organ recital and who was almost wholly responsible for the modernization in 1900 and 1915, was appointed in 1899 and held his post until his most untimely death in 1925. He was an organ artist of the highest type and carried the great work forth from where his predecessor had left off. He popularized organ music, taught young musicians to handle the instrument and developed his own virtuosity to the point where he was known throughout the land. The writer of this article was his first assistant in the Tabernacle before regular recognized assistants were appointed, and it was this position which paid his study and travel expenses over a period of seven glorious years in Europe during the "Golden Age" when Europe was Europe. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1941

 Following John J. McClellan came Tracy Y. Cannon (now retired) and Edward P. Kimball (deceased). The present group, Alexander Schreiner, Frank W. Asper and Wade N. Stephens, continue to maintain the high standards established before them. These artists, each of whom has had the finest European (Paris, Berlin) and Amertican (Boston, New York, Chicago) training possible to procure, furnish accompaniments for the marvelous choir and recitals of the highest order. It is doubtful if a finer group of musicians can be found functioning anywhere at the present time. While this is being written, new additions and improvements are now going on in the organ again moving it forward in the vanguard of famous instruments. 'The organ today has more than 140 stops and about 9,000 pipes. The daily recital certainly calls for a word of comment. It was not uncommon in the first twenty years of the innovation to have in attendance an audience of from 20 to 75. Later audiences, thought huge, rose to 1,800. At present it is quite a common sight to see over 3,500 in attendance at what is probably the country's most extensive series of musical programs, "The Tabernacle Organ Recital." a "There let the pealing organ blow, To the full voic'd quire below, In service high, and anthems clear, As may with sweetness, through mine ear, Dissolve me into ecstasies, And bring all Heav'n before mine eyes."