Berane Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 4 Types of Humor, Continued (Tuesday, January 20, 1942) "Humor is the good-natured side of any truth.... It is a sudden light on the funny side of things that often keeps one from saying or doing something foolish." Lesson Topics: Review of last lesson Satire Humor of situation Review of Last Lesson The previous lesson dealt with the mediums through which humor is expressed; that is, humor through the various unnatural and unusual combinations or uses of words, as in puns, and in the humor of coupling ?Opie Read incongruous facts and ideas, as in parodies and burlesques. The nature of the different types of humor thus produced was discussed and examples given from writers of the past and present who have employed these mediums. Satire In the last lesson mention was briefly made of the use of burlesque as a means of satire. Though satire 712 often employs burlesque and carica- | tute, it is not dependent upon them. Satire is a literary composition holding up to ridicule the abuses, vices, or follies of mankind, or of individuals. Its purpose is ordinarily reform. It is not always humorous, though it usually is. As a literary type, satire is very old. The great Greek comedian Aristophanes (Ar''-is-tof'u-n?z) used comic satire in an effort to reform all phases of the life of his time. He recognized the power of comiedy to clear the mind, to strip away evils and artificialities. The Frogs, by Aristophanes, shows the weakness of the author's time when there was a general breakup of the old morale which had made Greece great. He has the god Dionysus (Di'6 ni'siis), or Bacchus, patron of the arts, go to Hades to bring back a worthy poet. The god and his slave have many humorous adventures before they reach their destination. The quest is to find a poet who can inspire his country to its old glory. The most comic scene is that in which the god calls the two greatest Greek poets, Aeschylus (Es'ki lus) and Euripides (U rip'i d?z), both dead, to compete for the privilege of returning to earth?to the mission of redeeming their country. The author favors the poetry of the older Aeschylus. His purpose is to recall his people, through bringing Aeschylus back, from influences of the newer poetry of Euripides, which he thinks has deprived them of their manhood. So the satire shows the weaknesses of the more modern poets. This poetic contest is as humorous as anything in modern literature. A pair of huge scales is brought 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1941

 forth. The poets are then summoned and made to stand before the balances and recite their poetry into the balancing pans to test their power. The god says: "Move up. Stand close to the balance... Take hold now and each repeat a verse." This they do, and the scales show the line of Aeschylus to be the heavier. Euripides cannot see how this happens. But the god explains: "He slipped a river in, like the wool-jobbers, to moisten his meter. But your line was light, a thing with wings, ready to fly away." They try again. Euripides recites: "Speech is the temple and the altar of persuasion." Then Aeschylus recites: "Death is a god that lives no sacrifice." Again the older poet wins, and the god says: "No wonder, with death put into it?the heaviest of all calamities." The farce goes on for a time, Aeschylus continuing to outweigh his brother poet. Consequently it is decided that he is to return with the god and "restore his city to peace and wealth." The comedies of Aristophanes served as a model in humorous satire followed by later writers, including Moliere, Shakespeare, and even Bernard Shaw. One literary critic says that it is in Aristophanes that one can see the first clear note of the power of real comedy. He laughs both at lesser frailties and at national stupidities on a large scale. He had the power through his brilliant satire to point out the most glaring faults to his audiences and to win their applause. It has been said that the Greeks poisoned Socrates for telling the truth to their faces, but that they LESSON DEPARTMENT crowned Aristophanes with laurel for doing the same thing with humor. Chaucer was another poet to use satire as a weapon of reform. He shows up the evils of his day in the church, in the professions of law and medicine, and many other fields, through his characters in 'he Canterbury Tales. He does it as Aristophanes did, with delightful humor, not with the bitterness some satirists use. Swift is perhaps one of the bitterest of all satirists. Even in Gulliver's Travels, he strikes viciously in his indictment against humanity; though for most readers, the satire in this book is hidden under the burlesque of the story. One may read it as a romantic tale of imaginative adventure without realizing that it is satirical. Pope and Dryden were great satirists who made even bitter personal satires humorous. _Pope's 'satires against some of his literary and political enemies were so effective that he gleefully wrote that it pleased him much to see men who were not afraid of God, afraid of him?or at least of his poems. The essay is a type well adapted to satire, and modern literature is rich in this type. "Death in the Stadium," by Robert Nathan, satirizes many characteristics of Americans, particularly their desire for publicity. It tells the story of a great actor who stages his death scene in a stadium where people gathered to see the spectacle as if to see a football game. Robert Benchley is. One of the most humorous of modern satirists. In "Shakespeare Explained," he uses all that Harvard could do for him in making fun of that training. This 713 essay is a satirical protest against scholarly footnotes which he feels detract from literature. Stephen Leacock's new book, Too Much College, is a humorous satire of somewhat the same type. Leacock says the college attempts to teach the unteachable. In literature, for instance, he says that all that is best ?the flowers of poetry and drama, imagination and inspiration ? becomes distorted by systems of examinations and credits which defeat it. Literature, so taught, he states, looks in the mirror and reflects back a comic credit which is the real master and which controls degrees and jobs. This he calls a great joke on literature. He says, "It is as if education said, 'Divide the beauties of poetry into six elements and say them over to me, and I'll give you a degree as a horse doctor.'" He goes on with his indictment by saying that we substitute text knowledge for literary appreciation, the questions and answers of written examinations for reading for reading's sake. Examinations, he feels; poison love of literature at the root. Children remember what their mothers read to them because they were not prejudiced against that reading by the thought of examinations. Satire is doubtless one of the best known types of humor and one that most readily yields itself,. As has alteady been noted, to purposes of reform. But there are other types that give perhaps even more spontaneous laughter to the world. One of these is the humor of situation. Humor of Situation The humor of situation rests on circumstances that cause embarrass- ment or chagrin because they are incongruous. For instance, a gentleman and his son went from the country to the city for a day. Finishing their business early, the father said, "We'll go out and see Aunt Carrie." They had not been to Aunt Carrie's for a long time, and when they arrived she was not at home. 'They went in, however, thinking to surprise her. After waiting a while the father said, "I'm sure Aunt Carrie wouldn't mind if we got a bite to eat." They went to the kitchen and placed the food they found in the refrigerator upon the table and were beginning to eat when someone opened the door. It was not Aunt Carrie, but a startled, indignant stranger who had taken over Aunt Carrie's home for a few months while Aunt Carrie was away from the city. / Another illustration also from real life, follows: A lady was invited to pour at a tea to be given at a girls' dormitory. On the day that she thought had been designated for the 'tea, she dressed in her formal gown, took a taxi to the dormitory, swept up the walk and entered the lobby, only to find it occupied by girls and their boy friends who stared at her questioningly. "Isn't... The... I came to pour at the tea," she stammered. "That is next Thursday," one of the girls explained amusedly. This type of humor is found in literature of all ages. There are stories in Greek mythology which show it was popular hundreds of vears before Christ. Vulcan once played a practical joke upon his mother by making her a golden chair which closed like a trap when she sat in it. The humor of situation resulted. Gammer Gurten's Needle, the first English comedy based upon local material, is a comedy of situation. Poor "Gammer" had lost her one and only needle. The whole community turned out to search for it, but to no avail. Finally, when her grandson sat down, the needle was found. She had left it in his pants which she had been mending when someone called her attention from her work. The humor is boisterous and crude, but it shows a type which was to continue to be popular. Many of Shakespeare's comedies employ this medium. As You Like It is an example. One of the situations, upon which others of equal incongruity rest, is the disguise of Rosalind as a young man when she, accompanied by her cousin, Celia, steals from her uncle's court to seek her banished father in the Forest of Arden. There she meets Orlando, who has gone to the forest for safety from his selfish brother who has planned to have Orlando killed so that he himself may have the younger brother's property. Orlando had previously fallen in love with Rosalind, and after he arrives in the forest, he spends his time writing love poems to her, which he hangs on trees. These are brought to Rosalind, who is also in love with Orlando. She devises a meeting with him, and safe in her disguise as a young shepherd, promises to cure him of his hopeless love by pretending to be his beloved and listening | to his avowals. These love scenes are extremely funny, as are the scenes arising from the same original humorous situation ? that of mistaken identity?in which Phoebe, a rustic maiden, tries to win the love 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT of the young shepherd she thinks Rosalind to be. In other plays, Shakespeare uses this same humorous situation of mistaken identity, as in Portia, disguised as a lawyer, in The Merchant of Venice. Oscar Wilde achieves much of his humor through complicated situations. His play, The Importance of Being Earnest, is an excellent comedy growing from the mistaken-identity situation. Barrie, Shaw, and other modern playwrights use similar means of humor. Barrie's What Every Woman Knows and Shaw's Man and Superman are but two of many such plays. Novelists also recognize the importance of humorous situations. The picaresque stories of the Middle Ages, forerunners of the modern novel, were practically all of this type, the hero, always a ruffian or person of low estate, getting the better of a nobleman or master. Mark Twain's "The Blunders of a Bashful Man" is based upon the humor of situation and resembles very much the old picaresque or rogue stories. The Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, not so long ago made into a popular movie, is an excellent illustration of the same medium. This book, like many other books of humor in its highest form, is more than a funny story written to make people laugh. It has a serious purpose as well; it was the authors denunciation of aristocracy with its special privileges. Humor of situation is well adapted to the short story and has been used successfully innumerable times. "The Hazing of Valiant" is the story of a group of college boys who plan to enter the room of a freshman in the night and drag him out for 715 hazing. The one commissioned to enter the upstairs room of Valiant by means of a ladder, is horrified to see, as he steps into the room, a woman arise from the bed and come toward him in the dim moonlight. She begins to talk to him as if he were her husband. He thinks he has by mistake climbed into the apartment of a young professor. When the woman is about to scream, he, in humiliation, explains that he was only seeking a fellowstudent, and he begs her not to expose him. She makes him promise to abandon his hazing plans, and, finally, for the sake of his mother in whose name the intruder has begged to be shielded from the disgrace of publicity, she lets him go. The next day the would-be hazer receives a letter from Valiant explaining that a long nightgown, a black wig of braided hair, and a skill gained in imitating a girl's voice in high school all-boys' shows proved an effective disguise. A few others of the many excellent short stories of this type are: "Wanted?A Cook," by Alan Dale, a story of the imposition of a cook upon those who hired her under the false assumption that she could not speak English; "The Experiences of A. C.," by Bayard Taylor, the story of an effort of a few people to reform poverty; "The Girl and the Julep," by Emerson Hough, a story of Southern traditions of hospitality; and "The Enchanted Hat," by Harold Macgrath, the adventure of a letter. Still others are: 'That Other Baby at Rudder Grange," by Frank R. Stockton; "The Invisible Prince," by Henry Harland; and "Not oailieaiaes to Schedule," by Mary Stewart Cutting. Perhaps no type of humor has a greater part in real life than the humor of situation. Doubtless each member of the class has been the central figure in some situation, not humorous to her perhaps at the time, but decidedly so to others and to herself after her embarrassment had worn off. We should strive to look at these experiences objectively and enjoy the humor in them, instead of suffering in sensitive embarrassment. A sense of humor can turn many situations from tragedies to comedies. "From the days of Aristotle down to the present time it has been maintained, with varying emphasis in various keys, that it is the business of comedy to lay bare vice in its less aggressive shapes, and by exposing it, to improve the morals of the age."  Y. T. Greig. Problems and Projects 1. Discuss the advantages and danger of satire as a means of humor, remembering that kindliness is ever an element in real humor.. 2. Give illustrations, other than those in the lessons, of satire used as a means of reform. Most books of modern essays contain excellent illustrations. Some tecent dramas, such as You Can't Take It With You, have the same purpose. 3. Which do you ?njoy more?humor based upon unusual uses of words, upon the grotesque combinations of facts and ideas such as in parody and _ burlesque, or humor growing out of situations? Give reasons why. 4. Relate interesting situations in your own life or the lives of your friends which. Would serve as a basis for written humor. 5. If a committee is writing humor for your group, some of the experiences brought out in the above exercise might be used. 6. Discuss the use of humor in situations which might be regarded, from another viewpoint, as tragic. Illustrate from experiences or observations. Supplementary Readings Agnes Repplier, In the Putsuit. Of Laughter. Oppenheim, Great Impersonations. Wilder, Wit and Humor of America, Vols. I, VIII, X. Satirical Poems of Pope, Dryden, Swift. Novels of Wodehouse. Comedies of Shakespeare. Ring Lardner, Round Up. Eric Knight, The Flying Yorkshire Man.