[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | Unknown | Issue: 6 | Title: Greetings and Congratulations | Author: Unknown]

GREETINGS AND CONGRATULATIONS.
	Beloved Sisters and Co-laborers: —
	We desire again in the new year that has
just begun to extend to one and all, officers,
teachers and members of the Relief Society
throughout the world, a heartfelt and loving
greeting, and to express our appreciation of
your labors in the great and grand organi-
zation.
	There is no limit to the work of charity
in the Relief Society. It is a daily and an
hourly occupation, of mind and body. How
to manage affairs so as to deal with all kinds
of people and all sort of cases that come up;
with sickness in its various forms, and death
also with needy families who not only have
to be supplied but also taught in many in-
stances how to manage, especially mothers
who do not understand economy in the
home; all this is not simply giving, it is
both learning and teaching what is best to
do under all varieties of circumstances.
	We are aware of your diligence and faith-
fulness, and know that you will make any
effort possible tending to further develop-
ment, spiritually and mentally. No more
possible effort could be made than has al-
ready been accomplished, among the sick,
the destitute. The charity that “giveth lib-
erally and upbraideth not,” our sisters mani-
fest day by day; they are diligent in search-
ing out the needy and relieving their wants;
uplifting the fallen and saving from the
powers of evil those who are tempted to go
into by and forbidden paths.
	We commend your labors in all good
works, and we are assured of the many sac-
rifices you must necessarily make to perform
these noble acts of charity and benevolence;
and we pray that you may realize abundant
blessings in your own households and joy
and satisfaction in your own souls that will
give you peace of mind to more than com-
pensate for all that you do.
	One of the missions given this society by
the prophet Joseph Smith himself, was to
save souls; and if we can succeed in per-
suading the thoughtless and wayward to
turn from evil, and repent and reform, we
shall have accomplished a most desirable ob-
ject; to rescue them from error and lead
them to the truth is to earn the joy of saving
those that were lost and are found again.
	When we contemplate what our sisters
have done in a material way it is indeed
wonderful. The houses that have been built;
the granaries for the storing of wheat, be-
sides assisting the bishops in building meet-

[Column 2]
ing houses, halls, etc., one marvels at the
multiplicity of the labor actually accom-
plished.
	We especially commend your labors with
the young mothers in helping and advising
them. We know that such assistance must
be valuable; and urge you as much as pos-
sible to nourish and cherish spiritual growth
and a testimony of the Savior that it may
be rooted and grounded in the mind of the
young, together with an abiding faith in the
divinity of the mission of the prophet Jo-
seph Smith and of the restoration of the
holy priesthood. Encourage the bearing of
testimony in your meetings and do not fail
to allow the dear sisters who are advanced
in years to have an opportunity to express
themselves, for it is a joy and comfort to
them, and a blessing to those who listen.
	The cultivation of faith in our children is
essential to salvation. Faith is a mighty
power. Let us not neglect it while we are
living in this great day and age when mighty
events are transpiring and still greater are
yet to come. We must never neglect the
faith that lies at the foundation of all power.
	On the seventeenth of March, of this year,
this great organization of the Relief Society
will have reached its seventieth anniversary.
During all those years the spirit of the gold-
en rule has been manifested by these heroic
sisters of charity who richly deserve the title.
It seems very fitting that in this coming an-
niversary we should celebrate the day in
some way never to be forgotten, giving it a
historical importance and significance
worthy of record in Church history.
As it will be the Sabbath day, the
services must necessarily be of a religious
nature, and the brethren will undoubtedly
respond to the wishes of the officers of the
society in lending any assistance possible to
render the occasion appropriate and credit-
able.
	In closing we acknowledge our gratitude
to you all for the love and good wishes ex-
tended to us, and for the co-operation given
to our efforts for enlarging the work in all
its various departments. We shall thankful-
ly remember all favors shown and all kind-
nesses manifested in whatever way, for
these things appeal to us and help us to exert
ourselves, enlarge our own hearts and exer-
cise the divine charity that never faileth and
the humility that brings down the blessings
of heaven upon all who can attain to that
sublime excellence, to “Love our neighbor
as ourselves.”
	Peace and love be unto you and joy in
all your labors.
	Faithfully your Sisters,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS, President.
		CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, 1st Counselor.
		JULINA L. SMITH, 2nd Counselor.


[Column 1]
