[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | Unknown | Issue: 6 | Title: CHARLES DICKENS. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

		CHARLES DICKENS.
A Review of His Life, Suggested by the World-
	Wide Observance of His One-Hundredth
				Birthday.
	At the beginning of the nineteenth century
the civilized world was in almost a state of
stagnation so far as advancement along edu-
cational lines was concerned. Napoleon, that
most consummate and indomitable of sol-
diers, was marching through all Europe with
his “grand army,” carrying everything be-
fore him. The nations were terrified and
every effort, every means, was being ex-
pended to assemble armies, train and equip
them to meet this one great foe of nations―

[Column 2]
a feat at last successfully accomplished
when at Waterloo, in 1815, Napoleon’s star
fell from the heavens, and his power ceased
forever.
	Charles Dickens was at that time three
years old, having been born in 1812. The
terrors of war having past, the world was
in the dawn of a new era or epoch of let-
ters, and one of the brightest literary con-
stellations that has ever lighted the world
appeared when Charles Dickens began his
career. There were Scott, Thackeray, For-
ster (Dickens’s greatest friend and biog-
rapher), Macready the actor, Thomas Car-
lyle, Lytton, Leigh Hunt, Dean Stanley,
George Henry Lewes, and many others.
	The years of Charles Dickens’s childhood
and early manhood were important in the
social history of the old world. They may
be said to mark the parting of the ways be-
tween the past age and the present. He be-
gan life when coaches were the quickest
means of transportation from one part of
the country to another; and yet he lived to
cross the Atlantic in a steamboat. In read-
ing Dickens’s writings it is well to remem-
ber these facts and to think of London, the
scene of most of his books, not as the Lon-
don of today with her wonderful under-
ground railways, her network of electric
contrivances for lighting and conveying
messages, the great river Thames with ex-
pansive bridges where the greatest shipping
of the world is carried on, and along whose
banks now is one of the most interesting
thoroughfares in the world, with statues,
obelisks, parks and palaces; but a great,
dark city with thousands of inhabitants
struggling for a livelihood in almost any
way that presented itself; advancing, cer-
tainly, but the great genius of invention had
not discovered itself when Dickens began
his literary career.
	So much of Charles Dickens’s personal
history is in his writings that it is well to
know something of the man himself.
	Charles John Huffam Dickens was born
on Friday, February 7, 1812, at Landport in
Portsea. His father, John Dickens, was a
clerk in the navy pay office, working at this
time in the Portsmouth dock yard; his
mother had been a Miss Elizabeth Barron. 
Of his father, a thriftless, luckless man, Dick-
ens always spoke with affectionate regard;
though it is well known he was the model
for the famous character Micawber. To his
mother, who apparently misunderstood him,
and yet to whom he owed all he had of early
education, he seldom referred. He was by
no means an only nor a favored child, being
the second in a family of eight children.
After a short residence in London, when
Charles was between four and five years old
the family moved to Chatham, where many
strong impressions were made upon his
mind, even though so young, and which in
some ways are marked in his later life and
works. It was here he first learned to read,
having been taught by his mother. He was
fond of reading, fond of dreaming and his
father’s library, which though not large pos-
sessed some rather fine books, was Dickens’s

[Column 3]
delight. He cared little for games and out-
door sports, and was a rather small and deli-
cate child. The books he read, and whose
characters he afterwards lived and acted,
were, “Tom Jones,” “Roderick Random,”
“Peregrine Pickle,” “Humphrey Clinker,”
“The Vicar of Wakefield,” “Don Quixote,”
“Gil Bias,” “Robinson Crusoe,” and the
“Arabian Nights”—strange books for so
young a child, but he himself says in the
mouth of David Copperfield: “They did
me no harm, for whatever harm there was
in some of them was not there for me. I
knew nothing of it.”
	During the last two years at Chatham he
attended school; and when he was nine,
the family moved back to London. Now
began the sadness and trials of the boy’s life,
the memories of which he could never ef-
face nor the causes did he ever forgive; and
yet to this very time of trial for the little
fellow the world owes much, for it was
then he saw and learned the cruel side of
life; it was then his nature was so touched
with the lowly, the pathetic, even the crim-
inal side; it was then that he walked and
toiled among the poor, the unfortunate, the
cringing and the wicked, but possessed of
his God-given gifts of thoughtfulness, dis-
cernment, character study and a wonderful
mind. The people he met and the lessons
he learned in his sorrow have brightened
and delighted many hearts when pictured
and characterized by his most facile pen.
Of these days he himself writes: “I know
that I have lounged about the streets in-
sufficiently clad and unsatisfactorily fed. I
know that, but for the mercy of God, I might
easily have been, for any care that was taken
of me, a little robber or a little vagabond.”
	Through the adverse circumstances of his
parents he was compelled to go to work and
found employment pasting labels on boxes of
blacking. Trying to help his mother and
make the most he could out of a shilling a
day, exposed to everything painful and evil,
it is a wonder that his delicate body neither
succumbed to the privation and exposure
nor his character yielded to the evil influ-
ences; but Providence prevented either thing
happening, and instead his poverty actually
became the schoolmaster which produced
the great novelist. Yet the memories of
these days, while they provided many of his
best characters, were always painful to him,
and in later life he avoided the streets and
alleys that had been his early haunts; even
twenty-five years later he could only with
difficulty speak of those three years of his
apprenticeship in the shoe-blacking ware-
house, when his father, with the rest of the
family, were in Marshalsea—the debtor’s
prison. So blank were his evenings that at
last he remonstrated with his father and a
more suitable lodging was found for him
near Marshalsea, and in future days the
abode of Bob Sawyer.
	In 1824, when Charles Dickens was twelve
years old, through a small legacy and
the insolvent debtors’ act, John Dickens,
the father, was released from Marshalsea


[Column 1]
and to the great delight of the lad, Charles
was allowed to again attend school. Here
he found more congenial companionship
than Bob Fagin and the boys of his earlier
acquaintance. Here also he proved him-
self apt, but what he learned in school life
does not appear to have affected his work
like his necessary labors did. He entered
as a clerk the office of Edward Blackmore,
an attorney of Grays Inn, with whom he
stayed about two years. His master re-
cords that several incidents took place in the
office of which he must have been a keen
observer, “as I recognized some of them in
his ‘Pickwick’ and ‘Nickleby’ and I am
much mistaken if some of his characters had
not their originals in persons I well remem-
ber.” In some way he mastered shorthand
and at the age of nineteen gained admit-
tance to the gallery of the House of Com-
mons reporting in succession for the True
Sun, the Mirror of Parliament, and the
Morning Chronicle. It was doubtless dur-
ing his days as a newspaper reporter that
he gained his intimate knowledge of coach-
ing days and coaching ways which so charm
the readers of “Pickwick.”
	In December, 1833, Dickens made his first
appearance in print in the pages of the Old
Monthly Magazine, with “A Dinner at Pop-
lar Walk,” afterwards included in Sketches
by Boz under the name “Mr. Minns and his
Cousin.” That first appearance in print was
a great day for the world, and for him, who
walked Westminster Hall “because his eyes
were so dimmed with joy and pride they
could not bear the street, and were not fit to
be seen there.”
	It is not necessary to go into detail con-
cerning the issuing of different articles in
different magazines and papers, but from
this time on Dickens multiplied his literary
contributions, though for a time he contin-
ued as a reporter. It was a memorable time
in Dickens’s career when he issued his first
book. It was “Sketches by Boz,” in two
volumes, and at the same time “Pickwick”
began to appear in monthly instalments.
	On April 2nd, 1836, Dickens married
Catharine Hogarth, from whom in later
years he separated. Mr. G. A. Sala de-
scribes Dickens’s personal appearance at this
time in the following graphic manner: “Go
to Maclise’s canvas and ponder over that ex-
quisite delineation of the young man with
the long, silky hair, the fascinating smile,
and the marvelous clear and inquiring eyes;
that was the Charles Dickens who, in high
satin stock and double breast pin, in glossy
frock coat and velvet collar, in cut velvet
waistcoat and glistening chain was in the
early days of Queen Victoria’s reign one of
the best looking and best dressed young fel-
lows about town.”
	With complete publication of the “Pick-
wick Papers” fame came to Dickens with
overwhelming suddenness and he undertook
more work than he could well carry out,
having begun “Oliver Twist” and “Nicholas
Nickleby;” so immediately leaped into high
popularity the lad who so few years before
had followed a menial employment in a
blacking warehouse. Few advances of for-
tune have been so rapid, and it is memorable
that Dickens’s fame and popularity never
ceased nor waned during his lifetime, and
wherever he traveled or lived he was always
sought after and admired.
	As a man he was generous and lovable,
counting among his dearest friends the most

[Column 2]
notable men of the day. As a father he was
gentle, tender and companionable, his chil-
dren adored him. His daughter Mamie very
lovingly describes their home evenings, tell-
ing how her father sang and danced and
acted with his family like a child himself.
Dickens was not kindly disposed towards
other lands than his own, so as a traveler
he was not above criticism. Always ready to
criticize others, he was a Britisher through
and through. He made two trips to Amer-
ica and was received both times with open
arms and the greatest enthusiasm by the
American people, but after his return from
his first American tour, he very harshly and,
the Americans felt, unjustly criticized both
the country, the people and their customs.
Still he himself says that on his American
trip he felt nearer to being famous than ever
in his life; when on the street he was
stopped by a lady who said, “Mr. Dickens,
will you let me touch the hand that has
filled my house with many friends?”
	Dickens went on the continent for change
and rest many times, and began the writing
of some stories there, but was never able to
complete them there, saying that he missed
the numbers on the houses, the throngs of
people and other things that London pro-
vided and it seemed it was there among the
smoke and noise that he gathered the char-
acter studies which his genius portrayed.
Throughout his life Dickens had a great
fondness for the stage and many have won-
dered that he did not follow the profession
for he had undoubted ability in that line and
often appeared in amateur performances,
and in later life when he traveled through
the provinces and to American and gave read-
ings from his own work he charmed the
public with his readings and it is said he
made more money in that way than in writ-
ing. His work was increasing and he died,
as he had said he wished to, in the harness;
for it was while writing “The Alystery of
Edwin Drood,” in his fifty-ninth year. He
was buried quietly and privately as he had
wished in the Poets’ Corner in Westminster
Abbey, close to the monuments of Shake-
speare, Chaucer and Dryden.
	Dean Stanley, in speaking in Westminster
said: “He whom we mourn was the friend
of mankind, a philanthropist in the true
sense, the friend of youth, the friend of the
poor, the enemy of every form of meanness
and oppression. No English writer save
possibly Shakespeare, has drawn so many
characters that have become household
words.” Characterization was his chiefest
gift, whilst plot was his great weakness.
Most novelists find first a plot and weave
the story around it, bringing forth charac-
ters to aid and develop the story, while
Dickens’s books are almost entirely without
plot. Some critics claim that the lack of
plot is probably due to the fact that his nov-
els were published in serial form and as the
issues appeared he found new subjects and
characters; at any rate it was his way and
a true genius has to have a way all his own.
To some readers the lack of plot is very
acceptable, for one can pick up a novel of
Dickens and turn to almost any chapter and
be amused or touched just as the subject
may be; especially is this true of “Pick-
wick.” For instance, it is not at all neces-
sary to read the whole book to enjoy any-
thing so amusing as Sam Weller’s Valen-
tine, or Pickwick’s trial in the suit for dam-
ages by Mrs. Bardell, or Mr. Winkle’s

[Column 3]
elopement; in fact, if you are ever very tired
and somewhat depressed in spirit, pick up
“Pickwick” and read a few paragraphs—it
will certainly dispel the blues. He was a
master in every line—tragedy, pathos, com-
edy and farce. For tragedy read “Oliver
Twist;” for pathos, “Dombey and Son,”
“Little Dorrit” and “The Old Curiosity
Shop;” for farce, “Pickwick.” In descrip-
tive narrative Dickens has no equal. It is
sometimes said of him that his characters are
caricatures and that he greatly exagger-
rates everything; yet to draw caricatures is
a fine art of which one might well be proud.
That he exaggerated greatly is doubtful; he
had a keen perception of eccentricity and the
genius to draw it. The remark is often
made when some queer character is seen,
“How Dickens could have described him!”
As a matter of fact human life has many
phases, but there are few geniuses to por-
tray it. Another criticism of his work is
that he had few or no good women char-
acters. True, there are not many of the
heroic kind such as Shakespeare and Scott
portray; but for true womanliness there are
many, Bella Wilfer and Lizzie Hexam in
“Our Alutual Friend,” Agnes and Dora and
poor unfortunate Emily in “David Copper-
field.” That he drew his characters from
people he knew is well known, and “David
Copperfield,” his own favorite book, is found
to be almost a reproduction of his own life.
As his father is the original of Wilkins Mic-
awber, so is his mother the original of Mrs.
Nickleby, and again she seems to appear as
Mrs. Wilfer in “Our Alutual Friend”—not
an exaggerated character either, a woman
with some education and position, finding
herself in reduced circumstances naturally
resents anything like patronage from the
newly rich Mr. and Mrs. Boffin, especially
when she feels their wealth is obtained at
the expense of her daughter’s misfortune;
yet for two lovable, whole-hearted, inno-
cent-minded dear creatures commend me to
Mr. and Mrs. Boffin.
	Dickens was truly one of the world’s
great characters himself. We love the man
through his works, and his works through
the man. 					A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


