[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | Unknown | Issue: 6 | Title: MARY A. BURNHAM FREEZE. | Author: Unknown]

	MARY A. BURNHAM FREEZE.

	A saintly woman, fair of face,
	Divinely tall, of wondrous grace—
	Thy life a triumph of completeness,
	Thy soul the essence of love’s sweetness.

	On the 21st of January, Sister Mary A. 
Freeze was called home to the mansions 
awaiting the faithful and the true. The 
death of this estimable woman is most keen-
ly felt by thousands who knew and loved 
her. Possessed of a strong and pleasing 
personality, always firm but gentle, she 
passed along life’s ways with its sorrows 
and joys with an unfaltering step. Per-
haps her greatest characteristic was her 
strong spirituality which one always felt 
when conversing with her. Faith in God 
and reverence for all the principles of the 
gospel and for those in authority seemed to 
be the two things that guided her most in 
the broad work of her life. 
	While Sister Freeze was identified mostly 
with the work of the Mutual Improvement 
Associations, she also sympathized and 
worked in harmony with all the other aux-
iliary organizations of the Church, feeling 
that all these needed the support of those 
who labor for the upbuilding of the king-
dom of God and the uplifting of humanity. 
She was never known to refuse a duty or 
betray a trust, and no woman could be more 
beloved or honored than was she. While she 
had not had the advantages of education 
that most women have today, she was a stu-
dent and a reader, and her natural intellec-
tual tendencies led her into paths of study 
of nature and of life, written and unwritten, 
that enriched and broadened and refined 
her. She was a lover of poetry, but only 
discovered that she possessed any ability for 
writing through a great trial which her 
faith helped her gloriously to overcome and 
turn into a blessing. The principle of plural 
marriage she accepted as a divine truth and 
lived it as such, making the patriarchal 
home life of her husband’s family a beauti-
ful example of unselfishness and the abode
of faith. She has told her loved ones that 
in answer to a prayer at this time, beautiful 
words in verse came to her as a blessing, 
and she arose in the night and wrote them 
on the cover of a book. The columns of 
THE EXPONENT have many times contained 
verses and articles from her pen, breathing 
forth some of the thoughts and sentiments 
of her rich mind; and it seems especially 
significant that the last previous issue of this 
paper contained perhaps the last poem she 
ever wrote. The beautiful verses themselves 
seem almost a prediction of her passing 
away. Speaking of the universal brother-
hood of man and that we are never alone, 
since Christ has called us His own, the last 
verse reads: 

Look up sister, brother, be glad and rejoice, 
For He hath made plain by His own precious
	voice,
That we are all kindred—then why feel alone, 
Since we hope soon to meet Him and kneel at 
	His throne! 

	Mary A. Burnham Freeze was born in 
Nauvoo, Illinois, October 12, 1845. Her 
father had been a minister of the Christian 
church but through the efforts of the elders 
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints was convinced of the truth of 
their message and was baptized. He 
did not live to come to the valley, but her 

[Column 2]
mother, with her family of little ones, made 
the journey across the plains and arrived in 
Salt Lake City in 1852. The family moved 
later to Richmond, Cache County, where 
Mary attained her young womanhood and 
prepared herself for school teaching. It was 
there she married James Perry Freeze in 
1863, and shortly afterward they made their 
home in Salt Lake City, where she spent all 
the remaining years of her life. She had 
nine children and she was a most devoted 
and loving wife and mother. 
	In 1871 she was appointed president of 
the Retrenchment Association of the Elev-
enth Ward, and when the stake organiza-
tions were effected, she was appointed pres-
ident of the Salt Lake Stake Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association, leaving 
that position when the stake was divided, to 
become a member of the general board of 
the Young Ladies, in which position she
visited the different stakes of Zion and 
taught and admonished the daughters of the 
Saints. She enjoyed to the utmost her work
in the Temple, having been called to work
in that holy place when it was first opened. 
She also did splendid missionary work in 
connection with the Bureau of Information 
on the Temple block. Sister Freeze was a 
charter member of the Utah Woman’s Press
Club, and took an active part in all things 
pertaining to the advancement of women 
and the welfare of her people. Hers was a 
pure, noble, lovable spirit, and wherever 
known she will be greatly missed and sin-
cerely mourned. 
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


