[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | Unknown | Issue: 6 | Title: YOUTH OF ZION. | Author: MELL C. WOODS,]

YOUTH OF ZION.
Zion’s hope is most exultant
	In the future yet to be,
When the children of the cov’nant
	Write their deeds in history.
Sons and daughters with a mission
Foretold in prophetic vision.
Zion’s hosts must be triumphant
	In the battle for the right:
They are brave and strong and valiant;
	They must surely win the fight,
Maintaining righteousness and truth
In the full vigor of their youth.
In these mountain vales primeval
	They have grown to manhood’s prime,
Taught to shun the paths of evil,
	Filling life with deeds sublime;
Proclaiming equity and peace
Till tyranny and discord cease.
 In the shadow of these mountains,
	Tow’ring high t’ward heaven's dome,
Drinking deep from crystal fountains,
Flowing freely round the home,
Nature in her tenderest grace
Makes beautiful each lonely place.
These stalwart men from noble sires,
	Proudly bear the honored name;
Heroic deeds each life inspires,
	Treading paths that lead to fame;
Nor ever lay their armor down,
But win the prize and earn the crown.
			—Emmeline B. Wells.
Februaray 8, 1912.


[Column 1]
	AUNT MYRAM’S GARDEN.
		A TRUE STORY.
	Aunt Myram, as we called her, came
from England, where she had worked in a
stocking factory from the time she was old
enough to hold a bobbin. One day she heard
the call of a “new faith,” and accepting it,
came to Utah.
	In her heart she was a true child of na-
ture, and without realizing it, had craved a
bit of land of her own, all her life; when it
came to be her’s, that bit of a garden only
a few feet square, she loved it so fondly
and tended it with such care, had such a
pretty coaxing way, that the slips and seeds
grew to wonderful perfection in spite of un-
seasonable winds or weather.
	No matter how hard the day’s work had
been, Aunt Myram was never too weary to
weed and water that bit of garden; she
would say, if remonstrated with, “it rests
me to dig among the sweet violets and talk
to the mignonette and gilly flowers and
brings back memories of when, on a Sun-
day, I have seen just such old-fashioned
flowers in the farmers’ cottage gardens and
smelled just such fragrant violets, while
walking along the lanes and hedgerows of
dear old England.”
	Not that she regretted leaving the old
country, for in spite of the fact that her life
in America had been a hard one, with little
leisure or pastime, she kept the even tenor
of her way, looking back to the land of her
birth, with that kindly sweet remembrance
we have for our first teacher.
	Many the fragrant bouquets from that lit-
tle garden, that have graced my table in the
long ago and one of the visions I hope I
shall yet realize is to see dear Aunt Myram
again, radiant and sweet, “clothed with ce-
lestial grace,” among the flowers in the
gardens of Paradise.

[Column 2]
Within Aunt Myram’s garden grew
Flowers of every kind and hue;
Sweet Williams, pinks and lemon balm,
Wall-flowers and chrysanthemum,
Lilies white and lilies freckled,
Marigolds and tulips speckled,
London’s pride and four-o’clocks,
With larkspurs and tall hollyhocks;
Then honeysuckles, coral red,
And oh! the sweetest violet bed—
Why, you could scent them far away,
At morning’s dawn and close of day.
Bright morning glories, wet with dew,
Around her windows twined and grew;
And oh! the poppies that grew there,—
In Aunt Myram’s garden fair,—
think I see each silken head,
All white and pink and double red,—
Nodding and swaying in the light,
Making all nature seem more bright;
And sweet peas, too, the lovely things,
With clinging tendrils, fairy wings,
And mignonette and eglantine,
And daisies pied and columbine,
The sturdy Canterbury bell,—
And many more that I could tell,
All grew in sweet profusion there,
Nursed and tended with loving care.
But sweeter than all the flowers there
The little woman with silver hair
And bright black eyes and winning smile,
And gentle ways that cares beguile.
I see her there among her flowers,
As I sit thinking, in lonely hours.
Long since, Aunt Myram went away
Where flowers bloom in endless day;
But her nature sweet and brave and true,
A lesson left, for me and you:
Tho’ cares are many and days are gray,
Just tend the flowers along the way;
Skies will brighten and blossoms glow,
They need the showers to make them grow.
				MELL C. WOODS,
A tribute. March, 1901.


