[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | April | Issue: 22 | Title: HEPHZIBAH. | Author: Unknown]

HEPHZIBAH.
				XIX.

	When love comes in the balmy summer hours, 
		While all the earth with conscious pleasure teems,
	We linger in fair Eden’s charmed bowers,
		And ponder o’er, and o’er, love’s happy dreams.

	The “Pearce Farm,” was just the place for
love-making, secluded, quiet and peaceful.
The great, square front-yard was full of old-
fashioned flowers in bloom, and the house was
fragrant all day long with the perfume of
honey suckle and sweetbrier, that clustered
about the doorways; hay-making is said to be
love-making time, and now the new-mown hay,
lay sweet and fresh in the meadows; and this
young stranger from abroad was in search of a
wife; (though Hepsie knew it not;) he deter-
mined to make love while the opportunity was
favorable; his heart was touched with “Cupid’s
arrow," the girl was simplicity itself to him,
and suited his mood, after his experience in [---]
world. Only twice afterwards did they meet,	
ere almost without an engagement they were


[Column 1]

wed. The question that decided Hephzibah's
fate was asked one lovely afternoon when they
were sauntering through the meadows, just as
the sun was gaily lighting up the Western
sky. Harold had been in a very poetic mood,
and very tender withal after the fashion of an
ardent admirer, of which Hepsie had not the
slightest practical idea, and when he asked her
if she loved him well enough to be his wife,
she looked down and sighed, she knew not
what answer to make and in place of any re-
ply he caught her in his arms and kissed her
passionately, and declared he could not live, if
she refused to marry him. Hepsie struggled
to free herself from his embrace, she knew not
what to say; it was true that she was fascinated
by his charming presence; but she felt more
like weeping than rejoicing, she begged him
to give her time to think it all over, it had
been so sudden, such a surprise, she had not
dreamed of any declaration. She could
scarcely believe it was true. "I must see my
mother," she said, "she will understand better
than I do, I cannot answer now, school has not
closed yet, there are many things to be con-
sidered, O, no I cannot marry a stranger, you
must not come again my heart tells me so."
	Harold replied with the firmness of one who
knew his influence, "Hepsie you are mine now,
if love can make us one, but I will not come
again, since you will have it so, good night,
I'll not go in," by this time they had reached
the door, "good night," he clasped her to his
bounding heart and was gone in a moment,
she had not spoken again, she listened to the
sound of the horse's hoofs as as he rode away
in the still, calm twilight, and she felt as though
all was over; stealing quietly into her room
she threw herself down upon the bed and
wept bitterly, the great round moon shone in
upon the bare floor and the shadows of the
tall elm trees were like ghosts to her weird
imagination. Bye and bye sleep came to her
relief and the morning found her calm and
self-possessed, At breakfast Farmer Pearce,
who was a man of very few words said, "Miss
Hathaway you were late coming in from your
evening walk, I heard the horse's hoofs down
the rocky hill, and by the bye young Harvey
is a Mormon, and though his father is an old
friend of mine, yet on your account I can't
encourage his visits here Mr. Beamen charged
me to keep Mormons away from you, I'm sorry
for Harold, he's desperately smitten;" Hepsie
felt so embarassed she could not speak, but
Mrs. Pearce came to the rescue in her cool
way "let Miss Hathaway alone 'Lihu she
knows how to take care of herself, and as for
Mr. Beamen he put her in our care, and I'll
answer for't she'll not fall in love with neither
young Harvey with his polishes, nor Bancroft
neither; I know somethin about girls, she's
no fool." After this defense Hepsie felt ex-
cused from any reply, she went to her room to
dress for school and Farmer Pearce went out
to his haying; but the dear old lady followed
Hepsie and said, "don't mind my old man, he's
very fond of you Miss Hathaway, and he thinks
you're too good for Mr. Bancroft—he likes
young Harvey, only you know his folks are
'Mormons,' rich as they are, and they mean to
go to Nauvoo soon, and I guess they'd like
Harold to get him a wife and go along with
um." Hepsie had hard work to keep still,
but she could not talk about it. "I must go
now Mrs. Pearce don't worry about me, I
never was like other people; and I can't please
everybody either."
	Hepsie was very much dissatisfied with
herself, and she thought over and over what
had transpired. She felt she was in no wise
responsible for the coming of this young man,
nor had she tried to win his love; she had
[---]nted companionship to be sure and every-
thing [---] seemed to turn the tide of affairs in
his favor. She felt a little lonely when she

[Column 2]

thought that he would not come to Beechwoods
again; and a trifle piqued too.
	Mr. Bancroft renewed his attention follow-
ing her about so that she decided not to take
any more walks much as she needed the
change. He gave her to understand that he
knew Mr. H. had been unceremoniously dis-
missed and that Farmer Pearce would not
allow him to come there, and he intimated
that his love was not very deep, for he had also
paid his addresses to another young
lady, "one of your friends and of
your faith too." Evidently he expected this
would rouse Hepsie's indignation, or jealousy
if she really had an affection for Harold; but
he failed; the girl was non-committal. Not
even the old farmer or his wife could find
out, whether she was in love or not. Mean-
while Mr. B. pressed his attentions upon her,
though he must have known she disliked him,
he expected to win in the end by persistency
as many lovers had done.
	Before school closed Miss H. had recieved
two or three letters from Miss Reynolds in
reference to Harold and one anonymous one
warning her to beware of young Harvey. She
knew the handwriting however though the
author had sought to disguise it. She only
answered one letter but that was shown to
Harold and confirmed him in his determination
to marry her. We have not space to tell all
the tumult of emotions that pervaded the heart
of Hepsie during the last three weeks of the
school. It was a curious experience for so
young a girl. Her sister Mrs. S. and others
had heard of the young stranger's visits and
had visited her to warn her against marrying
a "Mormon." She had made up her mind
that she would not be over-persuaded either
way, and each conversation she had with friend
or relative always resulted in a flood of tears.
	School closed at last and Hepsie returned
home the following day and gradually she was
let into the secret, her own secret, that she was
to be married. It was quite understood, every
one knew except herself—all the arrangements
had been made before her return. The
Harveys were going to Nauvoo and many
other families from adjoining villages. There
seemed to be a special Providence in this
affair and everything tended in the direction
of the union of Harold and Hepsie. Had
the girl become more acquainted with him, the
marriage might never have been solemnized
but it was all managed as it were without
"common consent:" Hepsie had argued with
her mother thus "it will mar all my plans for
future action, everything will have to be
changed henceforth, all the golden vision of
my rose-hued future, my ambition to become
an author, must be buried in oblivion."
And she reasoned with herself, "Will his love
be sufficient to compensate me for all that I
have looked forward to,—the dreams of my
child-life, the ambition of my girlhood." She
was not quite satisfied; it was like a sacrifice
after all.
	A quiet wedding in a country village, the
one where Hephzibah was born and where
three generations of the family had taken an
active part. The morning was very beautiful;
many and fervent were the congratulations of
the villagers and friends, and yet there was
a degree of disappointment apparent. It was
not what had been expected, for many friends
had foretold for her a brilliant future. It really
seemed inconsistent that she should marry
young and settle down like other people to
common-place pursuits.
	It was strange that after the ceremony was
over, and the people had dispersed, for there
was neither wine nor wedding cake, or "a mar-
riage feast." of any kind: it was very strange
that the bride should have chosen of all places
in the world to take Harold for a ramble to
"the paternal mansion," it was not exactly in

[Column 3]

keeping with bridal garments, but it proved to
be a premonition of the future.
	Harold was enthusiastic in expressing his
new-found happiness, but Hepsie could not re-
joice. She could only see the old house as it
had been, her grand-pa sitting by the fire or
under the shade of the elms, and feel his hands
upon her head caressing her in the most endear-
ing terms. Soon after the marriage the young
couple took up their abode with Mr. and Mrs.
Harvey, who were busy making preparations
for gathering with the Saints to Nauvoo.
Hepsie soon found that a great deal was ex-
pected of her, more than she was equal to pre-
form. It was a frequent remark of Mrs.
Harvey's "I'm surprised you have such shift-
less ways, with all our money I would not
have brought up a girl in such an idle lacka-
daisical manner as you have been.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


