[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | April | Issue: 22 | Title: FELICIA. | Author: Unknown]

FELICIA.

From cloistered walls and woman's care
He brought his only child;
Through shadowy halls and windows bright,
The sun stole in and checked its light
Where, garlanded by symbols old,
Legends of beauty, valor bold,
Her own dead mother's picture smiled.

From out those casements ivy-wreathed,
A dream like garden met her sight,
From out those turrets higher still,
Her eyes might rove and drink their fill
Of forest, lake and waterfall,
Nor weary grow from morn till night.

All guarded 'round, the ancestral lands
Were safe as her own fireside;
Through woods whose light was green with shade
Or flecked with gold where sunlight strayed,
And musical with songs of birds
Or silent, save her voice was heard
The child might wander undenied.

For height and glen and dimpled vale
Were her's by birth and the young Lord  
Had all his people's love, and she
The flowers of his ancestral tree,
Held in their hearts that tender place
None since her mother's death had graced
Now unto her in full restored.

So free to wander and return
At her sweet will; where lilies hide
In shadows cool, and mosses creep,
Where little brooks their heights o'erleap,
And silent pools gave back to her
The sight, in silence lovelier—
The maiden and her hound beside,

[Column 2]

"What hast thou in the green wood found?"
Then answered she with gentle grace;
"I have found what words cannot tell,
As echoes falling sink and swell
And while we listen, die away
Yet in our being sing alway,
Unnamed, yet keeping there a place."

So passed their days and oft he gazed
As one half dreaming, on her face,
Feasting his heart in tenderness
Upon her girlhood's loveliness,
Picturing sometimes, what would be
That form arrayed in dignity
Belonging to her name and place,

"But—Oh not yet, still let her bloom
Sweet as the wild rose and as free
Not yet, the time of that new life
When pride and praise and beauty's strife
Efface the holy bloom of youth
And trace across the heart of truth
First thoughts of human falsity.

"Not yet for her that hour of fate
'Mid worldly splendors' golden light,
When one shall come her heart to win,
Nor even she can see within
The guise his soul perhaps might wear
'Till time shall prove him false or fair
And make life's fulness or its blight.

"She comes! a dream of beauty, grace 
And purity.  Ah could I keep
Her peace forever sweet as this,
My heart would ask no dearer bliss."
Fair, silent as the moonbeam's ray
Where murmuring wavelets rippling play,
She came like one who walks in sleep.

And while he watched her fervently
She came straight-way his chair beside,
She wreathed her white arms round his neck
And, as though sudden words to check,
Against his own she laid her cheek
And trembled, yet she did not speak,
Nor sought the rare, bright tears to hide.

"What hast thou in thy roaming met?
Is't joy, or sorrow, or some fear?
Where are thy little page and hound,
To call me not with faithful sound
If, thou hast met with thought of fright,
Like some late bird at coming night
Though moon and stars are shining clear?

But oh, the answer in her eyes
Revealed a truth in sudden light;
The little bird safe in its next
And warm beneath its mother's breast;
Will try its wings and, and nevermore
Is the wee nestling as before
But a new creature by that flight.

So, a wide change before his eyes,
The care his love had thought to rear
Against the world was all in vain;
For, o'er its heights, like sun and rain
The soul of love unerring drew
And to its voice, strange, sweet and new
Her own made echo true and clear.

"My hound was ever near my side,
My little page not far away,
And neither fear or thought of night
Came in my path, but, to my sight
There came one, wandering as I
For pleasure, just as free birds fly
Nor think it wrong where'er they stray.

"I saw him first while swift he rode
Through the dim forest to the lake,
And watched him where cliff shadows fall

[Column 3]

Above the whirlpool, and the call
Of sea gulls mingle with the cries
Of singing birds far up the skies
And wind and wave one chorus make.

"I saw him where the timid fawn
Scarce leaves her nest for fear of him;
He plucked a flower where, overleap
The shining waters, falling deep,
And where a pool, like mirror lies,
And boughs o'erhead in columns rise
And flowers perfume the arches dim."

"And hast thou learned to love him, child?
Thou hast but little known of life;
For thee wait honors; our own name
Is centuries old and linked with fame;
Mine only child, I fain would twine
Title as high and fair with thine
When thou shalt bear the name of wife."

"He proves his birth by noble mien,
And all the world, without him there
Would be for me a lonely place,
Since I have seen his smiling face;
All honors won through centuries old
Are pale and faint, are dim and cold
If with his life I have no share."

"I deemed thy life as yet a child's.
Tell me how thou hast learned so soon
To value as of lesser worth,
Splendor and pomp of titled birth
Beside the love of one unknown,
And guided by its voice alone
Have reached ere morning fades, its noon?"

"Ask me why summer light is joy,
Ask me what music is and then
I can reply. I only know
Since his dark eyes looked at me so,
That, bird and brook, glade, flower and tree
Make with his voice a harmony
That chimes to me o'er and again."

A step drew near. Not little page
Bowed low and entered, it was one
Who came as suitor, loyally.
Sing, little birds in every tree!
For she had loved with faithful eyes
One worthy, in his huntsman's guise—
An Earl—their distant kinsman's son.

