WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	AN AUDIENCE WITH THE POPE.
	Our letter to Cardinal Martennelli pro-
cured us our audience with His Holiness
Pope Pius X.
	On Nov. 25th 1909 at eleven o’clock in
the morning, we drove through the streets
of Rome in the brilliant sunshine, over the
beautiful arched bridge of St. Angelo, across
St. Peter’s Square to the entrance of the
Vatican.
	When we arrived the Swiss guard in their
picturesque costumes of yellow, blue, and
black stripes, all saluted.
	We wore the customary black dresses,
black veils, and no gloves and carried rosa-
ries which the Pope might bless for our
Catholic friends at home.
	We were conducted up the spacious stairs
past a line of more saluting Swiss guards
into a lofty waiting room where probably
ninety persons were assembled. The walls
of the room were hung with beautiful car-
dinal brocaded silk, there were silk curtains
at the door and windows, large paintings
on the wall, and at one end of the room
was a gold throne with the papal coat of
arms and a dove on the back and the figures
of St. Peter and St. Paul on the sides. The
canopy was of cardinal velvet.
	The men waiting here were in evening

[Column 2]
dress, although it was not yet noon. The
women were in black, while the young girls
were in white with white veils. The veils
are draped on top of the head and fall
over the shoulders with the ends fastened in
front, but do not cover the face. There were
a number of monks and nuns here too.
	After a time a chamberlain, in a gorgeous
costume of cardinal brocaded silk, and wear-
ing cardinal silk hose, black shoes with car-
dinal buckles, ushered us out in groups of
about thirty. We traversed interminable
distances it seemed, through a series of
broad and spacious apartments similar to
that which we had left. Finally we passed
through a smaller room where a number
of persons were standing evidently waiting
to receive a greeting and blessing from the
Pope. We were taken into the next room
and stood in a circle around the wall. It
was an exquisite room. The walls were hung
with cardinal moire silk, the carpet of car-
dinal velvet with the papal coat of arms in
the center and behind us was a large gold
throne. The windows were draped with
white silk curtains, long and softly sweeping
as transparent as lace.
	Two officers in full uniform with helmets
and swords kept guard. One lady had for-
gotten to remove her gloves so she was
asked to take them off. In a moment or so
another officer came in and inspected each of
us from top to toe to see that all was correct
and probably to see that there were no suspi-
cious characters present, for we heard that
at that time the Vatican feared anarchists.
	There was a little rustling movement in
the next room, the guard signaled us all to
kneel and the Pope, accompanied by an at-
tendant robed in purple, entered. His Holi-
ness was dressed entirely in white cloth, a
beautiful, fine, soft fabric, and he wore
hanging on his breast a magnificent emerald
cross. He came in in the simplest fashion,
walked around to each one and extended
his hand in blessing and that each might
kiss the ring of St. Peter which he wore.
After he had passed us, one woman, over
devout, I suppose, bowed to the floor to
kiss his feet, but he jumped back as though
very nervous and did not allow it. The at-
tendant and guards came up quickly, but
the Pope recovered himself, spoke to her and
placed his hand upon her head. After each
had received his greeting he arose, then
when the Pope had been all around the room
we all knelt again, and the Pope, standing in
the center, gave the blessing for all in melo-
dious Italian. He was a man of fine phy-
sique, with white hair, and a ruddy com-
plexion, large kindly Italian eyes and a
simple, gracious manner. His personality
spoke a kindly sympathy for human nature,
and one felt in his presence that a strenuous
life out among his people, helping them in
their struggle in the world, more strongly
appealed to him than an existence which re-
quired him to shut himself away in appar-
ent seclusion.
	After the Pope had finished the blessing
he went into the next room, when he re-
turned we formed a passage from one door
to the other, standing on each side, and as
he passed through, all knelt again, and the
audience, simple but impressive, was over.
	Then we walked back through all the
gorgeous cardinal rooms, past the saluting
Swiss guards and bowing footmen and left
the Vatican.
						G. B. W.


