Pioneers and Daughters. Mary A. Van
was chosen temporary chairman and Pearl
Woodmansee temporary secretary. Because
this society owes its origin to Hannah Lap-
ish, she was given the title of Founder Gen-
eral and was chosen President, with Sarah
Swift first counselor, and Emily Beebe sec-
ond counselor, Mary A. Van, secretary,
Pearl Woodmansee, corresponding secre-
tary, Anna Livingston, assistant secretary,
Jennie Careless, historian, Sarah Kedding-
ton, treasurer, Hannah Saunders, chaplain,
Mary S. Houtz, registrar, together with 39
charter members, and M. Y. Dougall, an
honorary member.
	Constitution and by laws were formed and
a committee, with Frances Armstrong as
chairman, appointed to read and report.
They were approved by the committee and
adopted by the society, whose object was to
commemorate and perpetuate the memory of
the sublime faith and heroic courage of the
Utah Hand-cart Pioneers, who for the sake
of their religion, journeyed on foot, draw-
ing their belongings in two-wheeled carts,
a distance of from one thousand to twelve
hundred miles, over barren country, inhabi-
ted only by wild animals and Indians.
	It shall be the purpose of this society to
collect and preserve an accurate history of
those memorable journeys with their indes-
cribable sufferings, hardships, and priva-
tions, and a display of more than ordinary
fortitude. And it is the subject of this soci-
ety to preserve the names of all those who
started to come to this then Territory by
hand-carts, whether they reached their desti-
nation or perished by the way.
	For this purpose we feel that a monument
should be erected in a public place, and all
these names inscribed upon it. Having this
object in view, a small bank was purchased,
and presented to the society by Sarah Swift,
and at each meeting it has a conspicuous
place on the table where members drop do-
nations from time to time.
	This being the third anniversary of our
society, it seems only fitting that we should
refresh our memories upon a few of the
things that have transpired during that time.
We have met on the 14th of each month,
and have had many interesting talks
from those who crossed the plains with
hand-carts; also words of encouragement
from Prest. Joseph F. Smith, John Henry
Smith, Seymour B. Young, and many
others. We have met twice each year with
the Hand-Cart Veterans, where interesting
times were had, and have had excursions
to Wandamere and many pleasant parties
at different homes.
	During all our little existence, we have
been fortunate in having the beautiful home
of our loved President Frances Armstrong
for our meeting place, and have received
many courtesies and pleasant surprises from
her hands. At the expiration of two years,
she was unanimously chosen our second
President, with Alicia Arnold first counsel-
or, and Jennie Careless second counselor.
Sister Lapish had served us well, and we
still feel she is the “back-bone” of the soci-
ety.

[Column 2]
	We have chosen red as our color, typical
of the flower called “Indian Paint Brush”
which grew in abundance at that time. Our
society pin is made of enamel in colors. We
also have a banner, hand painted by our
Founder-General, Hannah Lapish. This
also portrays the pulling of hand-carts
across the plains and was proudly carried
by our society in the big parade on the 24th
of last July.
	Since our organization people have
awakened to the fact that there was such a
thing as a Hand-cart Pioneer and many
inquiries have come from all over the state,
showing great interest in the organization.
While we know we are still in our infancy,
yet we feel we will, as Sister Dougall said
we would, come to the front and be a lead-
ing society in Utah. We have come to the
front, and are being recognized. This was
proven at our recent conference, when we
were called together by our honored Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith and counselors, and
entertained by them, and such men as Elders
Francis M. Lyman, Orson F. Whitney,
James E. Talmage, Bishop Heber S. Iver-
son, the Old Folks Choir, and others.
	We are proud of our society and the fact
that our pioneers and parents pulled hand-
carts across the plains. When we sing our
hand-cart song, “Some Must Push and 
Some Must Pull,” we feel, with Brother
Heber C. Kimball, that we have pushed and
pulled our way to Zion. Now we must keep
pushing and pulling to get into the Kingdom
of God.
					MARY A. VAN
							Secretary.


