EDITORIAL NOTE.
	Interesting programs were rendered
March 17 by nearly all the Relief Societies
in the Church, so many indeed it would be
impossible to publish them all; but it is with
much pleasure that we read of the renewed
interest in Relief Society work these occa-
sions arouse and we trust the Latter-day
Saint women will always appreciate their
membership in this splendid organization.
There are reports from Payette, Cannon,
Liberty, Roy wards and many others.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFER-
			ENCE. 
	The Conference of the General Relief So-
ciety of the Church was held in the Assem-
bly Hall, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 2nd
and 3rd, 1913, commencing Wednesday,
April 2nd, at 10 a. m., President Emmeline
B. Wells presiding. 
	The morning session opened with singing
“We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet.”
Prayer by Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Sing-
ing, “Softly Beams the Sacred Dawning.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells extended a
loving and tender greeting to those assem-
bled. She regretted the fact that the weather
was so stormy, but felt that this would not
mar the good effect of the conference, if we
all have sunshine in our hearts. She re-
gretted the fact that some have departed
from us since our last meeting, but felt no
sorrow for them; the only real sorrow we
should have is for those who go into outer
darkness. President Wells expressed the
hope that all the members of the Relief So-
ciety love, uphold, and sustain each other,
and that all are united in this great work of
love. 
	The work of the Lord is progressing. It
is a source of joy to know that another
temple is to be built, and this in Canada.
The growth in this direction will go on and
on, so that the salvation for the dead may be
more readily accomplished. 
	Mrs. Sarah P. Stohl of Box Elder Stake
responded to the President’s greeting. She
expressed joy and satisfaction in being per-
mitted once more to see and hear our be-
loved president. Felt that all should appre-
ciate the fact that our president knew per-
sonally the Prophet Joseph Smith, and knew
of his great desires to aid and uplift the
women of our people. She was pleased to
report Box Elder Stake in good condition. 
Weekly meetings have been inaugurated,
also department work, the older sisters

[Column 2]
meeting in one class and the young mothers
in another, each department taking up work
particularly fitting to its various needs. The
evolution of women has been discussed and
time has been spent on genealogical work. 
	Sister Verona B. Redd, secretary of Tay-
lor Stake, reported that much good is being
accomplished in this far away stake. The
people are intensely interested in their work,
and are steadily progressing. 
	She was followed by Mrs. Sarah McLel-
land, a member of the Board of Bannock
Stake. There are fourteen societies in this
stake, scattered over a large area of coun-
try. It is necessary to travel seventy-five
miles to reach one ward. The members are
all united, and the work is steadily growing. 
	Sister Alice Boomer represented Bingham
Stake, where there are ten societies and a
membership of four hundred. The class
work is especially good, being conducted by
competent class leaders. 
	Bro. George Pyper sang a tenor solo, “My
Native Land.”
	Benson Stake was reported by Mrs. Re-
becca Rawlins. The distinctive feature of
her report was that in this stake two sisters
have been appointed especially to call on all
the aged and sick and infirm, for the purpose
of giving them comfort and cheer.
	Mrs. Eleanor Squires reported Liberty
Stake, where the organization is new. In
this stake preparation meetings for officers
have been instituted and are very success-
ful. Among other things “Home Econom-
ics” has been taken up, and actual demon-
strations in cooking given. 
	By special request Bro. George Pyper
gave another solo, “O, My Father.” The
President expressed gratitude for this cour-
tesy, and asked that the audience give a ris-
ing vote of thanks to Bro. Pyper. 
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, President of
Pioneer Stake, and a member of the State
Legislature recently adjourned, then deliv-
ered an address, “Women in Social Ser-
vice.”
	Mrs. Cannon stated that outside of her
family and the Gospel nothing is so dear to
her as the Relief Society work, with all that
it has accomplished in its various fields. The
great opening for women in the world had
its beginning with the Latter-day Saints in
the organization of this powerful society,
which was the opening wedge. 
	The status of women today is very differ-
ent from what it was fifty years ago, great
changes have taken place and much progress
made.
	Woman has always had one opportunity
—the opportunity to work; this one thing
has never been denied her. Man has never
considered that she was out of her sphere
when she toiled in the fields and factories;
he has never criticized her for leaving her
home for any kind of drudgery; but when
she began to enter the professional field and
when she began to compete with men in the
great work of the world, she was reminded
that she was going out of her own sphere
and was neglecting her home. 
	After the key was turned for woman by
the Prophet Joseph Smith she began to look
around and to think; she felt that if she were
not out of her sphere in the working world,
she would not be out of her sphere in public
life; so she turned her eyes to education and
to general development, and little by little,
step by step, she has gained a prominent
place in the world’s work. 
	Last year much good was done in Amer-


[Column 1]
ica by the women, not only in suffrage
states, but in other states as well, and legis-
lative work has been greatly influenced by
them indirectly by the intelligent interest
they have manifested in public questions;
and, as this interest has grown, women have
had less time for novel reading and frivolous
amusements.
	There have been women in our State leg-
islature from time to time, and in the session
just closed we had three women in the
House of Representatives, all deeply inter-
ested in such legislation as would help to
uplift and benefit humanity. Some of the
social legislation worked for was secured,
and while some failed, it was only the be-
ginning of a campaign for better things
which will be ultimately successful.
	When it was recommended that the Juve-
nile Court be done away with because it
was only partially effective, the women rose
to the occasion; they were on the alert and
through their efforts the subject was recon-
sidered; and as the result the State of Utah
has one of the best Juvenile Court laws in
the world today.
	Another measure for which we are all
pleased is the minimum wage for women.
Utah is the first state to establish this law.
The least wage that can now be paid a girl
apprentice over sixteen, is seventy-five cents
a day, or $4.50 per week. Much was said
against this law by paid lobbyists, and it was
predicted that it would kill home industry.
This same prediction was made two years
ago with regard to the nine-hour law, but
no evil result has so far been seen. The
State Vice Commission in Chicago has been
discussing this same question and trying to
sift it to the bottom. They have found that
women do not receive a living wage and
girls sell their souls to live. They feel that
the question is beyond them and have ap-
pealed to President Wilson to call a con-
gress of governors to settle the question.
All thinking people may know that some-
thing is materially wrong when 95% of the
profits in a manufacturing business goes to
the manufacturer himself and only 5% goes
to the workers—the people who make the
business and put their whole lives into the
work.
	It is a great satisfaction to know that a
woman deputy is to be appointed in the State
department of Immigration, Labor and Sta-
tistics, and this seems highly appropriate
since 99% of the employees in the state,
aside from mining, smelting, and railroad-
ing, are women.
	We are extremely proud of the widowed
mother’s pension law, and proud of the men
and women who helped to bring it about.
It is much better, too, for the state to help
the mother care for her little ones and allow
her to train them when young than to have
in later years perhaps to support them in
penal institutions.
	Equal guardianship of children is another
good law accomplished through the efforts
of the women.
	Several good measures introduced by the
women failed, and among them the bill pro-
viding for the establishment of a girls’ dor-
mitory at the State University. This is the
first thing the women of the State in a
united body have asked for, and because of
the great need of such a home for outside
girls it is a matter of keen regret that the
measure failed.
	In the face of all these things, we can see
that women have a sphere beyond the home,

[Column 2]
and it is to be hoped that in the future the
women of the Relief Society will interest
themselves in all questions of social legisla-
tion and avail themselves of the opportuni-
ties they have to help bring about important
and needed reforms.
	Announcements were made and the ses-
sion closed with singing, “O Ye Mountains
High,” and prayer by Mrs. Sarah Jenne
Cannon.
		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	At 2 p. m. the conference was resumed.
The congregation sang “Hail to the Bright-
ness of Zion’s Glad Morning.”
	Prayer, Dr. Romania B. Penrose. Sing-
ing, “Earth with Her Ten Thousand
Flowers.”
	President Wells announced that the after-
noon session would be devoted to public
health problems. The speakers are all spe-
cialists in their lines and will no doubt give
very valuable information and instruction.
	Mrs. Alice M. Horne introduced the
speakers and their subjects.
	The first speaker was Dr. S. H. Paul,
Health Commissioner of Salt Lake City,
who took for his theme, “Saving the Babies
and the Value of Milk Depots.”
	Dr. Paul said he was especially pleased to
be able to talk to such a large audience, be-
cause to a great extent the efficiency of the
health department depended upon the un-
derstanding and co-operation of the public.
Many things the health authorities had at-
tempted, he said, had failed partially at first
because the reasons and necessity for certain
rules and regulations were not understood.
In illustrating this, Dr. Paul referred to con-
ditions of the city’s milk supply, which be-
fore the enactment and enforcement of the
present regulations were deplorable. At
first, he said, there was decided opposition
from milk producers, but more recently,
through co-operation of producers and dis-
tributors, Salt Lake’s milk supply compared
favorably with that of other cities.
	Dr. Paul spoke of the concerted attempts
of other cities to lower the rate of infant
mortality. In some cities he said that one
infant in five died before reaching one year
of age, and although conditions in Salt Lake
were vastly better than the average, at least
75% of the deaths of infants were from
ailments preventable through proper feeding,
and a large proportion were from milk unfit
before it reached the home. Dr. Paul said
that it was the purpose of the health depart-
ment to establish a milk depot where proper
milk could be furnished for infants, and to
engage trained nurses to instruct mothers
in the care and preparation of food for in-
fants.
	In providing proper milk for infants, he
said, the first requirement was to get good
milk of proper chemical composition, and
next to see that it was kept pure after it
was delivered to the home.
	Mrs. Emma Ramsey Morris gave a vocal
solo, “Fear Not Ye, O Israel,” and by spe-
cial request sang “Come, Come Ye Saints.”
	Prof. Jakob Bolin of the school of physical
education of the University of Utah, then
gave an entertaining and instructive talk on
the necessity for proper posture, explaining
the injurious effects of improper carriage
and describing exercises by which improper
posture may be corrected.
	He asserted that many women live in a
state of constant invalidism because of care-
lessness in this respect.
	Dr. W. Brown Ewing, nerve specialist,
was the next speaker. His address in full
appears in this paper.
	At the close of each lecture questions
were asked from the body of the house and
were answered by the speakers respectively.
	Congregation sang, “Come, Come Ye
Saints.”
	Closing prayer, Mrs. Emma A. Empey.
			(To be continued.)


