lief Societies of the St. Joseph Stake con-
vened at the meeting-house in Thatcher,
Sunday March the 9th, 1913, beginning at
10 a. m. We had no visitors from the Gen-
eral Board. President Elizabeth Layton and
counselors and all members of the Stake
Board present; also Stake President An-
drew Kimball and Counselors, members of
High Council, Patriarchs Claridge and Bar-
ney, and a number of Bishops from the dif-
ferent wards, which was quite an encourag-
ing feature. The morning singing was con-
gregational and the time spent in executing
the business part of the program.
	First Counselor Selena Phillips, who was
in charge, welcomed the sisters; hoped they
would gain renewed courage and interest in
attending our conferences, for there is so
much we can do to build ourselves up in the
work of the Lord. Spoke of utilizing our
spare moments in reading and informing
our minds on the various subjects which will
fit us to perform our parts in life.
	Reports, written and verbal, from several
of the wards were given, and a solo “At
Last” was beautifully rendered by Sister
Effie Montierth. Reports resumed, all
showing fairly good work done along the
lines of Relief activities.
	Sister Mary K. Taylor spoke by way of
encouragement to the teachers, explaining
the duties of this high calling, and urged
that they magnify their work along this
line. Said they should seek to understand
the principles of the Gospel, for we cannot
give what we do not possess. Said they
should seek the Lord in earnest prayer to be
inspired as to what is most needed in the
homes they visit. Their work is also to
relieve the needy, to comfort the mourners,
and in all things seek to do that which
tends to better and higher conditions in life
among the Saints. Said we must put forth
every effort to have all the married sisters
enrolled in the Relief Society.
	Sister Josephine Kimball, who recently
visited the Franklin Ward, which is about
sixty miles away, reported the Society in a
very prosperous condition, the sisters feeling
well in their work, their meetings resumed
after a siege of sickness, and a determina-
tion on their part to do better and more
efficient work. Had held a re-union and
entertainment by which they had replenished
their funds. All felt well and an enjoyable
time was had.
	The Stake Relief Society officers were
presented and unanimously sustained. Sis-
ter Alice Pace was added to the Board.
Meeting was adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Singing, “Zion prospers, all is well.”
	Benediction was pronounced by Laura
Barney.
	Conference was resumed at 2 p. m. The
session was held in connection with the reg-
ular Sabbath services. The choir sang some

[Column 2]
beautiful hymns and anthems, and a solo
was given by Sister Lottie Larson. Invoca-
tion was offered by Elder A. Barney, and
benediction was pronounced by President
John F. Nash. After the administration of
the sacrament, the meeting was given over
to the sisters and conference was resumed.
	The statistical and financial report for
the year of 1912 was read, showing an in-
crease in attendance at the meetings.
Through the efforts of the sisters a new
steel elevator has been built, with a capacity
of one thousand bushels, and in which they
have stored four hundred and fifty bushels
of wheat. A great deal of charity work
has been accomplished, not alone among our
own people, but the refugees from Mexico
have been gladly assisted in many ways.
	President C. M. Layton advised that, if
possible, the wheat now stored be disposed
of for cash, and when next harvest time
comes, fill the elevator with wheat of a su-
perior quality. Felt that the sisters were
doing a good work, and that the attendance
was equal to or better than the attendance
of any organization in the Stake. Urged
young mothers to join the society, and get
the good from it which is given in the dif-
ferent subjects taught. We should not
slacken our efforts to make our societies the
best in the world.
	Second Counselor Frances Kimball gave
a talk on the education of our girls—the
true education—wherein they might be
taught their high and holy mission which
they were sent on earth to perform, that of
the sacredness of motherhood. Deplored
the fact that the shrinking from this respon-
sibility was gaining ground among our Lat-
ter-day Saint girls. Showed the sin of this
evil and strongly urged mothers to teach
their daughters that no mission could equal
that of bringing into the world those spirits
held in reserve in the spirit world, which
God has ordained to assist in the consumma-
tion of this great latter-day work. Thought
we should be more conservative in our dress,
amusements, food, etc.
	Sister Emma B. Coleman spoke of our
several duties as Latter-day Saints, as mem-
bers of the Relief Society, and as mothers
in Israel. Said if we taught our children
to live and love the Gospel while they are
young, when they grow up, though they
might possibly stray away for a time, they
will have something to remember and event-
ually come back to, while those who have
been neglected, have nothing to remember
with love, and may never come back.
	A recitation, “What has she done? and
the reply,” was given by Sister Emma Mer-
rill.
	President Andrew Kimball read an “Anti-
cigarette bill,” now being discussed in the
Legislature and likely to become a law, and
made comment thereon. This has been got-
ten up mostly through the influence of the
Parents’ Class of the Sunday School, and
hoped that the efforts put forth would not
be in vain. Spoke of tithing and obedience

[Column 3]
to the Priesthood. Said no Board has a
right to change, add to or take from their
officers without the advice and consent of
those placed over them. Each Society
should have credit for their public work,
for waiting on the sick and attending to the
dressing of the dead. Advised that there be
a sufficient number on the Board to visit
every Society once a month or often-
er. Prayed God to bless all engaged in Re-
lief Society work.
	President E. W. Layton made closing re-
marks, thanking all for their attendance and
the choir for their beautiful singing. An-
nounced that conference would be adjourned
for six months.
		JOSEPHINE CLUFF KIMBALL.
						Stake Secretary.


