	Bear River Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in the Garland Social Hall,
Jan. 16th, 1913, at 10 and 2 o’clock.
	President Margaret W. Manning, presid-
ing.
	There were present, First Counselor of the
Stake Presidency, P. M. Hansen, five High
Councilors, two bishops, one member of
high priests’ quorum, five members of the
Y. M. M. I. A. and Y. L. M. I. A. stake
boards, two ward teachers, two members of
Primary stake board, and one member of
Stake Religion class; Sisters Julia Farns-
worth and Elizabeth McCune of the General
Board, ten stake board members and a very
good representation of officers and members
from the various wards.
	Singing, Now Let us Rejoice.
	Prayer, Bro. J. P. Christenson.
	Singing, Sweet is the work, My God.
	Pres. Margaret W. Manning made the
opening remarks. Felt very grateful for the
good attendance at our conference and
thought the sisters had a great deal of faith
to enable them to get out so early and come
so far to conference; felt the Lord would
certainly bless them for so doing; felt grate-
ful that so many of the Priesthood were
able to meet with us; was more than pleased
to announce that we had two sisters of the
General Board with us, Sisters Julia Farns-
worth and Elizabeth McCune. They had ex-
pressed a desire to hear the local presidents
report the different societies, which was very
ably done.
	Duet. Sisters Lucetta Thompson and
Mame Shumway.
	Sister McCune: There is an excellent

[Column 2]
spirit in our midst; had lived in the country
and knew the extra effort the sisters had
to make to come so far. The Lord will
certainly bless us for all the efforts we put
forth to do our duty. Was very much
pleased with the reports that had been given
on the storing of grain and other Relief
Society work; encouraged the sisters to
continue in gathering grain; advised them
not to sell all of it at once, but felt we
should keep some always on hand; had
worked in the Temple and was very much
interested in work for our dead. President
Joseph F. Smith gave the General Board as
a mission, the making and keeping of tem-
ple clothes on hand; urged Relief Society
presidents to keep two or three suits on
hand in case of emergency. Mothers should
teach their daughters to come to the temples
properly dressed; felt it would be lovely for
girls to make their own dainty little temple
suits to be married in, instead of spending
so much time on their silks and satins.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth: Had enjoyed
the spirit of conference; thanked the sisters
for the warm welcome they had given them;
felt the gospel brings us nearer together
and makes us more or less acquainted.
Mothers should not neglect homes, hus-
bands, and children for public duties; urged
the sisters to do all they could in temple
work.
	Pres. P. M. Hanson made encouraging
remarks, and commended the sisters for
their faithful and energetic work in Relief
Society.
	Singing, The Happy Day has Rolled on.
	Prayer, Bro. J. E. Dewey.
	During the noon hours a wholesome lunch
was served to all present by the Garland
Relief Society sisters, the same having
been prepared by sisters from the different
societies.
	Afternoon session.
	Singing, Now let us Anew.
	Prayer, Bro. David Manning.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth: Thought the
attendance very good for so small a stake;
had been a member of the Relief Society for
thirty-seven years; read a sketch of the life
and mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith;
referred back to the council in heaven, and
mentioned the many incidents down through
the ages of men that were necessary for the
restoration of the Gospel, and the coming
of the Prophet Joseph Smith; portrayed
beautifully his youth and first vision; pic-
tured on through the struggles of life, how
he was fitted to fill his glorious mission.
	Sister McCune said: When talking of
the prophet it always brings a good spirit;
spoke of genealogical classes that were be-
ing organized in the Church; urged all to
join that could; encouraged family reunions,
so they could organize and help each other
in doing work for their dead. It is wonder-
ful what can be accomplished if we only
put forth our efforts; spoke of temptations
menacing us, especially the young. Parents
must be ever on the alert watching and
help to keep them clean and pure; spoke of
the evils in cities where young people went
to supper after dances and theaters, the
temptations there awaiting them.
	Sister Farnsworth said if we would be
loyal to the Exponent it would be printed
in magazine form and contain and outline.
	Ester C. Evans: Felt we had had a splen-
did conference; felt grateful for the visit-
ing sisters that were with us; said we had
made progress in our work and study in the


past year; felt anxious that we continue on
through the new year, and knew we would
if we would do our part and work unitedly
together. Prayed the Lord’s blessings on
us all.
	Conference was then adjourned for six
months.
	Singing, Abide with Me.
	Closing prayer, Hannah E. Loveland.
				EFFIE I. WELLING,
						Sec. Pro Tem.

