					VINCY R. BARKER,
						7th Ward R. S.


[Column 1] 
Harriet Amelia Snow.
A SKETCH.
Harriet Amelia, daughter of Aaron and
Elizabeth T. Squires, born 13th September
1819, in Aurora, Geauga Co.Ohio. Her hon-
orable lineage is best established by refer-
ence to the fact that her parents were na-
tives of New England, one of her grand-
fathers served in the Revolutionary war,
and that her progenitors came to America
in the Mayflower.
At twenty-five years of age, she embraced
the Gospel, and gathered with the Church
at Nauvoo. In January, 1846, she was
married to Elder Lorenzo Snow, and in
the February following with her husband
and his three other wives, crossed the Mis-
sissippi and joined the encampment of the
Saints who had preceded them. Thence
to Salt Lake Valley her story is not dissimi-
lar to that of the majority of the Saints,
except in personal incident and circum-
stance.
A praiseworthy act of hers, during the
trip across the plains, deserves historical rec-

[Column 2] 
ord. A woman had died on the way, leav-
ing three little children—one of them a
helpless infant. Sister Snow was so
wrought upon by the pitiful condition of
the infant, that she weaned her own child
and nursed the motherless babe. By a stupid
blunder of her teamster, she was one night
left behind, alone, with two little children
on the prairie. Luckily for her, a wagon had
broken down and had been abandoned by
the company. Depositing the babes in the
wagon box, she made search, and found that
some flour and a handbell had been left in
the wreck, and with this scanty outfit she
set about making supper. She first took
the clapper out of the handbell, then stopped
up the hole where it had been fastened in.
This now served her for a water pitcher.
Filling it at a brook some distance away,
she wet up some of the flour, then, with
some matches that she had with her, started
a fire, and baked the flour—cakes, herself
and thirteen months old child making their
supper upon them. She then ensconced her-
self in the wagon with her babes, and slept
till early morning, when her husband found
her and complimented her highly for her
ingenuity and bravery. (Extract from
Women of Mormondom.)
After living a few years in Salt Lake
City, her husband was called to settle in
Box Elder, and preside over thaf part of
Zion. In 1857, one of her husband’s wives
died, leaving a little girl three years old,
and a baby boy. “Aunt Harriet” (as she was
lovingly called,) took the little girl into her
heart and home, another wife took the little
baby boy, but some years later, she also
took this little one, and they shared her
mother-love, together with her own children,
until they grew up and were married. She
was a blessing in the family, in times of
illness, they all depended on her greatly,
for she was skillful in understanding the
use of herbs and nursing the sick, and her
faith and childlike trust in the Heavenly
Father was a power, and inspired the broken
hearted with calmness, courage and faith.
In May 1868, the Relief Society was or-
ganized in Brigham City, she was called to
the position of 1st counselor to President
Leonora Snow Morley. After the death of
Sister Morley, in February, 1872, Aunt
Harriet became the President of the Relief
Society of Brigham City.
In those days, there was need of a great
deal of practical labor for the Relief Soci-
ety, poor emigrants came every year to
town, sometimes whole families came next
to empty-handed, needing everything. Aunt
Harriet used to say in Relief Society meet-
ing, “let your hearts and minds expand,
let us divide and share what we have with
the newcomers,” working days were kept
every month, where quilts and carpets were
made, ready to sell or give away according
to needs.
In the first years of the Society, Aunt
Harriet led the sisters in making many over-
alls, shirts and knitted socks, which were
sent to the men who worked on the Temple
in Salt Lake City, very little money was to


[Column 1] 
be found here then, but Aunt Harriet was
resourceful, many calls were made of the
Relief Society to assist, building up the
commonwealth. Aunt Harriet made chick-
en raising a study. When the call for the
first Tabernacle in Brigham City came, she
inspired the members of the Society to
gather Sunday eggs for a certain period of
time, and a fine sum in hard cash was rea-
lized, which was quite an item in those days
when money was so scarce.
	She was an inspiration in building up
home industry, she organized a class in
braiding straw, with Sister Carrie Smith as
teacher, fine hats with homemade trimming
were made in this department. Through
her management the Society helped build
the woollen factory and the Co-op Store;
when the days of prosperity arrived, the
Society owned a goodly amount of stock
in both institutions, and when poor families
were in need, the sisters would get the splen-
did homemade cloth, call extra working
days, cut and sew until the needy were com-
fortably provided for. She herself always
dressed in home made as much as was pos-
sible. Although money was so scarce,
Aunt Harriet managed through the Society
to emigrate a number of people—several
families from England and others. But
very little if any of this money ever was re-
turned. She was prompt in filling every
call, never shirking work. The following
incident will serve as an example. On July
24th, 1875, the United Order held a Grand
Fair. Every interested man and woman
was busy in assisting with preparations.
The committee called on the Relief Society
to make thirteen flags—the Stars and Stripes
—one for each department of Home Indus-
try, and one extra large for the Courthouse.
The request was made just a couple of days
before the 24th, but Aunt Harriet was equal
to the occasion. She gathered several sew-
ing machines to her house, requested a num-
ber of the best needle women to come and
work, and proudly they turned out the full
number just in time for the great celebra-
tion.
	In 1876, Sister Emmeline B. Wells met
with the Society in Brigham City, May 22nd
she came to explain the call from President
Brigham Young, that the Relief Societies
should gather and store wheat, this wonder-
ful call Aunt Harriet took up with her whole
soul, full of energy and determination she
led the sisters into the fields to glean wheat
like Ruth of old, this was the beginning of
this work, but little by little the members
gathered means for buying wheat. In the
beginning it was kept in the basement of
the Court House, this was found impracti-
cal, so Aunt Harriet gave one of her up-
stair rooms to keep wheat in, until a granary
could be built. She planned and worked
hard for a granary. She asked all children
to bring to her all the glass pieces they
could find, these she crushed herself, and
had it mixed into the mortar used in build-
ing the granary, this substantial cool rock
building was completed in 1880. This was
the first granary among the Relief Societies
in the Stake, but she had the joy to see a
number more before her death. She was
anxious and zealous in storing wheat.
	When the Relief Society was organized
into a stake capacity, March 13th, 1878,
she became President of the Relief Society
of Box Elder Stake.
	A few years before, however, President
Brigham Young called upon the Relief So-

[Column 2]
cieties to send a number of good women to
Salt Lake City, to study and qualify in ob-
stetrics, that we might have good midwives.
Aunt Harriet with the assistance of Presi-
dent Lorenzo Snow, organized several clas-
ses. These sisters were called and set apart
for this mission, by President Lorenzo Snow
and his counselors, and Aunt Harriet obliged
herself to see that they did not suffer for
anything needful, during their schooling.
She was a mother to these and raised means
to pay the tuition for those who did not
have the means on hand, she also bought
a number of books as a medical library for
their benefit in their work.
	When the call for raising silk came, she
took up the work in earnest, herself raising
cocoons. She called upon ward societies to
buy land and plant mulberry trees. For
some years this industry prospered, the three
wards in Brigham City also the Willard as-
sociation had splendid mulberry tree
groves. Aunt Harriet, although along in
years, would hitch up a horse and buggy and
drive to the groves for loads of leaves for
her silk worms.
	In 1884, June 11th and 12th a conjoint
Fair was held in the Court House, by the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. Association,
the Relief Society had a splendid exhibit
of sericulture, including seven silk dresses,
four silver grey, three changeable royal
purple, big skeins of beautiful reeled silk,
many cocoons, twilled silk cloth, crocheted
ladies mitts, bright colored netted neckties,
skeins of sewing silk, also the waste from
the silk worked together with wool, showing
what could be done in this useful industry.
	When the Deseret Hospital was erected,
July 17th 1882, Aunt Harriet raised liberal
contributions yearly, of good quilts, sacks of
clean clothes, boxes of canned fruit, and sent
down to help sustain it.
	How dignified, happy and proud she
looked, when telling us about the first call
towards the Logan Temple. We had felt
happy and proud to assist building the Tab-
ernacle, but to help with the Temple,—well
it was done with a spirit of joyful reverence.
	As Stake President Aunt Harriet had to
travel a great deal, Box Elder Stake was far
reaching, taking in Snowville, Park Valley,
Grouse Creek, Malad and into Cassia Co.,
Idaho, when Aunt Harriet, and Sister Eliza
R. Snow, in President Lorenzo Snow’s com-
pany, which included many of the prominent
brethren, had traveled through the Stake and
finished organizing, she found herself Presi-
dent of twenty-four associations. The wes-
tern trip took about three weeks in those
days, but she enjoyed her labor and brought
her wonderful influence to the different
wards, she was a tower of strength to her
co-laborers; she was noble and wise in coun-
seling and directing, and her strong spiritual
mindedness coupled with her sweet humili-
ty, made her sublime. The branch presi-
dents would look forward to her coming,
and if there were any sick sisters or chil-
dren in their midst, they would take her to
them, that she might bless and comfort them.
	The nearby settlements she would visit to-
gether with as many of her board as could
go, sometimes in one big three seated wagon,
sometimes another smaller buggy. These
trips were thoroughly enjoyed by all includ-
ed.
	Aunt Harriet was very conscientious, al-
ways, duty first, in fact, her husband’s trib-
ute that he paid her the last Relief Soci-
ety meeting he attended before leaving for

[Column 3] 
Palestine 1872, gives a plain index to her
character. He delivered a spirited farewell
sermon to the Society concluding with these
words: “I leave you now in the care of
Aunt Harriet, for I know, even if the Devil
stood in the door, she would push him aside
and go to perform her duty.”
	Aunt Harriet was a tall, large woman,
dignified in appearance, plain and frugal in
tastes and habits, modest, unassuming, in-
dustrious. Her very presence inspired re-
spect and confidence in old and young, she
always wore homemade clothing as far as
could be had, continually urging the sisters
to be self-sustaining and patronize home in-
dustry, not follow the fashions of the world.
The following incident may show her integ-
rity to principle even in small things. One
bright summer day she traveled with a num-
ber of her board to visit a near by settle-
ment. Aunt Harriet wore a new dress, per-
fectly plain, princess cut, but instead of the
old fashioned invisible pocket, her daughter
had put on a new mode, a placket pocket,
At the meeting the local president reported
her ward and spoke very forcibly on the
follies of fashion, among other things, she
said: “Brigham City lies on a hill and it
ought to be a light to the whole Stake.”
Naturally the Stake officers present won-
dered if any of them had offended in some
way, so returning home in their big three
seated wagon, being all women, Counselor
Mary the teamster, they began to criticize
each other’s dress like happy school
children determined to find the culprit; with
much merriment they accused each other,
until one declared it must be Aunt Harriet’s
new pocket, and there she sat, never saying
one word but her shoulders shaking with
suppressed laughter and her eyes twinkling
with amusement. (Let me state here, that
I have never heard Aunt Harriet laugh
loud, but always a silent laugh, so to
speak.)
	Next morning the same company went to
Bear River City, arriving at the president’s
home, removing their dust coats, helping
each other with little tidy-up touches, sud-
denly they all stood transfixed looking at
Aunt Harriet for lo! she had picked off
the modern pocket and inserted an old
fashioned one in its stead, blessed Saint as
she was, always telling us, that example
speaks louder than precept. She enjoyed
the company of the young, and attended the
Young Ladies’ and Primary meetings con-
stantly.
	In looking backward through the long
vista of years, it seems impossible to give
a perfect sketch of her many-sided labors,
spiritually and temporally, she firmly be-
lieved and carried out the instructions of
the Prophet Joseph, to the Relief Society,
that they should strive to save souls and
provoke the brethren to good works. The
many peculiar calls that came to our women
in her time, she always accepted and magni-
fied her calling, loyal and true to her peers.
Her intimate associates at headquarters
were Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H.
Young, Emmeline B. Wells, Phoebe Wood-
ruff, M. Isabella Horne, Jane Richards,
these leaders in woman’s work often visited
and enjoyed the progress of home indus-
tries in Box Elder County.
	She was a true mother in Israel, always
willing and ready to go among the sick.
She was sent for a great deal, because
the sisters loved her and her administration
in the sacred ordinances because of her sub-


lime faith in the Gospel. She always
taught and inspired her sisters to live up
to every principle of the Gospel. Being
among the first to enter Celestial Marriage,
she often testified to the greatness of this
principle, saying, “I know this is a true prin-
ciple, or I should never have stayed by it,
it is a pure and sacred principle, calculated
to exalt and ennoble all who honor and live
it as revealed by the Prophet Joseph Smith.”
	She taught and urged the sisters to gath-
er genealogy and do Temple work, herself
setting a strong example. In 1889 her
health failed more or less, she became rather
feeble and her eyesight became quite dim,
but spiritually she was full of energy to
finish her genealogy. In October she went
to Salt Lake City, attended all the meetings
of the Relief Society also the General Con-
ference, then she traveled all alone down
to Manti and worked in the Temple till her
record was finished. A month later she re-
turned home unannounced, in the afternoon
she came and surprised us in our home,
bringing her lantern; she was in the habit of
doing this, when she would stay and spend
the evening, and we would take her home
at night. She told us all her experience
during the trip and her work, told how she
had now finished her own record, also had
taken some genealogy of one of her hus-
band’s wives, fearing that she would not
attend to it, Aunt Harriet had also this
finished. Under the recital she looked so
earnest and grave, and we sat gazing at her
with eyes brimfull of tears, with a feeling
of awe, our hearts full of love and tenderness
towards her, but the still small voice plainly
whispered to us “Aunt Harriet will soon
leave us, she has finished her work.”
	Next year, May 12th, 1890, she passed to
the great beyond.
	We thank Our Heavenly Father for hav-
ing known, lived and labored with our moth-
er, “Aunt Harriet.” 
