MOTHER’S DAY IN MAY TIME.
	It is a beautiful season to have chosen in
which to keep a festive occasion, in remem-
brance of the mothers through whom the
earth has been peopled—the mothers, who
knowing the suffering and the responsibility
have accepted it all to perpetuate the human
race—mothers of prophets, seers and reve-
lators; mothers of doctors, lawyers, minis-
ters; mothers of doctors, lawyers, minis-
ters; mothers of kings and princes; mothers
of great men in all the walks of life. We
only read of one man who had no earthly
mother, and he was the first man Adam.
He was alone in the new world; and since
it was not good for him to be alone, he was
given an Eve to be his companion and help-
meet. She was the mother of the race that
has peopled the world.
	There is no joy equal to that of the moth-
er when the babe is born—a new life, an
immortal soul that will exist forever, a part
of her own life! Would it were possible
that all the women in the world could realize
the importance of this great blessing and
could comprehend the vastness and magni-
tude of motherhood—there would be more
rejoicing and less unhappiness.
	Some of the most vivid word-
pictures of the supreme joy of motherhood
are drawn in connection with the birth of
Isaac and of Samuel; and still more intensi-
fied in the royal birth of Jesus. Those who
read these wonderful passages in the Scrip-
tures can scarcely realize all that these births
meant to the mothers, who were really and
truly in direct communication with divine
messengers; we marvel at these manifesta-
tions given to women of ancient times and
while we can hardly understand it all, the
simplicity of the narration appeals to us with
the utmost sense of its sublimity.
	In the case of Sarah, we wonder how
she could laugh when the Lord spoke with
her. To us who have such reverence for
even a prophet or an apostle, it seems in-
credible that one should make light of con-
versation with the Lord.
	The month of May is typical of all the
tenderest and most beautiful expressions.
It is the month of delicate flowers, bright-
colored birds, and budding and blossoming
fruits. It seems indeed fitting that Mothers
day should be observed in May, for it is
also the month in which the graves of our
country’s heroes, and of loved ones gone be-
fore, should be decorated with choicest flow-
ers by the hands of women who love the


cause for which they laid down their lives;
and so we say on each May day: O happy
mothers to have borne illustrious sons who
fought in freedom’s cause and whose graves
are dear to every mother who loves her own.
	As we look backward, we can find many
wonderful mothers of men and women. In 
the nineteenth century, there was Lucy
Mack Smith, mother of the great Prophet
of this dispensation, and of his brother the
Patriarch. If we could but look into her
eyes and hear her relate the story of her
life, we would certainly class her with the 
greatest mothers who have been permitted
to bring forth men who have stood for the 
highest ideals of honor and spiritual up-
lifting that have ever been revealed, since
the world began.


