THE CHILD—BORN AND UNBORN.
By W. Brown Ewing, read at General Re- 
		lief Society Conference.
	When a member of your committee asked
for this address I confess I was at a loss to
know just what ground to cover and just
what would be the most useful.
	As my work has been, for so many years,
entirely along mental and nervous lines I
naturally take up that phase of the subject. 
	It has often been said that “the hand that
rocks the cradle rules the world.” The
proper way to train a child is to begin with
its grandparents. The problems of caring 
for the fit and the unfit are entirely separate
and distinct. The education of children is a
vast problem that has not been fully worked
out.
	Environment, good or bad, has a wonder-
ful influence on the future mental welfare
of the child. But no surroundings however
good they may be, will compensate, in any
adequate degree, for a bad heredity and a
vitiated nerve cell formation. He who dis-
regards nature’s laws will surely pay the
penalty—sooner or later. Like will produce
like, just as surely as night follows day, in
the palace of the king or the hovel of the
pauper.
	If we remember that genius is essentially
abnormal, and direct the teaching along gen-
eral lines rather than toward fostering any
special bent, we will surely more nearly
reach the desired goal. Yet how often we
find the opposite course persisted in and the
precocious child encouraged along the one
line of his peculiar aptitude—a one-sided
brain development—and the abnormal ten-
dency strengthened rather than retarded. No
amount of cultivation will give good growth
when the nerve cells are few and ill-nour-
ished; but careful culture can do much
when there are those with strong inherent
impulses toward development. On neurol-
ogical grounds, therefore, nurture is to be
considered of much less importance than
nature, and in that sense the capacities that
we most admire in person’s worthy of re-
mark are certainly inborn rather than made
(Donaldson).
	To be efficacious, physical and mental
training should go hand in hand, so
that the mentality may not be ham-
pered by a weak body. Would you
wish a child to become an accomplished
musician or a lightning calculator and
yet need a guardian in the ordinary 
affairs of life? From such material are the
world’s feeble-minded and criminal classes
recruited.
	Every child is a separate and distinct
problem. The treatment that will strengthen
one nervous system may utterly ruin an-
other; and only by careful study and obser-
vation can you decide what course to pur-
sue. Children like or dislike intuitively and
their confidence may be secured or lost in a
moment’s time. Their confidence may be


[Column 1]
secured by a kind word or thoughtful act,
or lost by a careless word or deed. The
child has not yet been born whose love and
affection was gained by falsehood or deceit.
Study the child, even more assiduously than
the “alfalfa weevil,” for really the subject is
more worthy and more important. A “sane
mind is a sound body” is more important
than monetary consideration, for in the end
the difference may be the sorrows that ac-
company the little white casket and the beau-
tiful flowers. It costs no more to “raise” a
man capable of living for eighty years than
it does to “grow” one who has not the capac-
ity of living to be forty years old (Fisher.)
	To begin a child’s training with its grand-
parents simply means that children sprung
from unhealthy and abnormal parents will be
abnormal, and that they will start the battle
of life under a handicap. The strenuous-
ness of this life is hard enough on the here-
ditarily strong; what must it be on the one
who from the first is below par? The vast
experience that culminated in the Mendelian
theory enables us to predict, almost with
certainty, the relative fitness or unfitness of
the progeny of a given marriage. The re-
sults of an analysis of pedigrees of insane
subjects, and rules of theoretical expectation
as propounded by Mendel, and known as
the Mendelian laws, are as follows—
	1—Both parents being neuropathic, all
children will be neuropathic.
	2—One parent normal, but with neuropa-
thic taint from one parent, and the other par-
ent being neuropathic, half the children will
be neuropathic and half will be normal but
capable of transmitting the neuropathic
make-up to their progeny.
	3—One parent being normal and of pure
normal ancestry and the other parent being
neuropathic, all of the children will be normal
but capable of transmitting the neuropathic
make-up to their progeny.
	4—Both parents being normal, but each
with the neuropathic taint from one parent,
one-fourth of the children will be normal
and not capable of transmitting the neuropa-
thic make-up to their progeny, one-half
will be normal but capable of transmitting
the neuropathic make-up, and the remaining
one-fourth will be neuropathic.
	5—Both parents being normal, one of pure
normal ancestry and the other with a
neuropathic taint from one parent, all the
children will be normal, half of them will be
capable and half incapable of transmitting
the neuropathic make-up to their progeny.
	6—Both parents being normal and of pure
normal ancestry, all the children will be nor-
mal and not capable of transmitting the
neuropathic make-up in their progeny.
	What better inheritance could you wish
from your parents than a pure normal hered-
ity without taint of any kind? Can lands
and houses, and the cattle on a thousand
hills compensate for it? True it is that oc-
casionally a defective is born to normal par-
ents, but the relative infrequency of such an
occurrence only emphasizes the law of hered-
ity. The child born to a heritage of unrest
may not “outgrow it” regardless of the fa-
ble to the contrary so often quoted. He may
be trained out of it but he will “outgrow”
very few things but his cradle and
his clothes.
	The problem of caring for the unfit is
becoming more and more grave with each
succeeding year. When we must face it
squarely is only a problem in procrastina-
tion. We know that the vast majority of

[Column 2]
degenerates are the children of parents who
were insane, feeble-minded, epileptic, alco-
holic, or too closely related by blood. If this
statement holds good, it stands to reason that
the more profound the parental taint the
worse, the degeneracy. Shall our defective
population be allowed to increase without
restraint? Shall we continue to procrasti-
nate? Shall children be born who have very
little chance of life and almost none of real
usefulness? It seems only too true that “the
forests are protected, the hogs inspected and
the children neglected.”
	In your capacity as advisers in case of
sickness you can assist many whose oppor-
tunities have been limited or those over
whom fortune has spread a cloud that seems
to have no silver lining.
	If you could at the same time discourage
the marriage of the unfit—remembering that
only from healthy parents can healthy off-
spring result—you will accomplish a work
that future generations will remember with
gratitude. I know full well that very many
people select their life-mate with much less
care than would be bestowed on a new suit
or hat. It will be said that I would take
from love all the poetry—perhaps—yet I
would like to substitute good common sense
for poetry. The so-called Indiana Child
Creed that every child has the inalienable
right to be born free from disease, free from
deformity, and with pure blood; every child
has the inalienable right to be loved; to
have its individuality respected; to be
trained wisely in mind, body and soul: to be
protected from disease, from evil influences
and evil persons, and to have a fair chance
in life, holds good in this and every state.
We say that all rules are broken in case of
sickness, and the comforts of the well must
give way to the sick, yet I have known the
expectant mother to receive less considera-
tion and care than is bestowed on the lower
animals. Is it ignorance? Is it thought-
lessness? Or worse—is it a question of dol-
lars and cents? If she requires intelligent
care after a new life is ushered into the
world, she certainly does before. In the
present generation women underclad, under-
fed, overworked, cannot bear infants en-
dowed with an organism fit to stay; factory
children, with no light, no air, no resistance,
grow up, if at all, to ages in which they are
permitted to procreate their kind, only poor-
er (Jacob). Thus children are starved or de-
fectives before they are born, infected with
hereditary diseases, and destined to be born
only to perish.
	In the education of the mother, in the care
of herself and her baby, we have the strong-
est weapon for fighting infant mortality. The
prevention of infant mortality forces the
problem of tuberculosis into second place.
The United States government report for
1908 gives the mortality from every form of
tuberculosis, in the registration area, as 78,-
289: whereas the number of infant deaths
under one year of age total 136,432!
	A baby comes into the world with less
chance to live one week than an old man
of ninety, and less chance to live a year
than one of eighty. Is it not true that there
are too many short coffins sold in the United
States? More than 1000 infants, under one
year of age, die annually in this state. Dr.
Hope of Liverpool reports that the deaths
among children under three months of age
either wholly or partially fed on artificial
foods are fifteen times as great as they are
among an equal number of infants fed on

[Column 3]
breast-milk. Ten bottle-fed babies die to
one that is breast-fed. Partially from statis-
tics and partially from estimates 1,500,000
persons die annually in the United States,
630,000 of these from preventable diseases.
	The fundamental causes of infant mor-
tality are mainly the result of three condi-
tions—poverty, ignorance, and neglect.
	The head of the United States government
Children’s Bureau (Miss Julia Lathrop) has
this to say regarding infant mortality:
	“Most of us are very much shocked to
find that in the ten years from 1910 back to
1900, there came into the world at least two
and one half million children who died be-
fore they were one year old, slipping into
life and out again, unknown and unnum-
bered in any public way.”
	And yet is there not something worse than
infant mortality — disgraceful and waste-
ful as it is? The moral degenerates that fill
our prisons, the insane that fill our asylums,
all have to be reckoned with. If improper
marriages, vicious living, ignorance and pov-
erty pad the death roll, do they not also
leave us a certain class of human beings
characterized throughout life by certain pe-
culiarities, eccentricities, originality in some
useless way, oddities of manner, speech or
dress, non-conformity to the rules that gov-
ern the great body of mankind, these things
not amounting to true insanity, and yet being
usually by heredity closely allied to it, or by
evolution ending in it at last? No one has
lived long in the world without meeting
many examples. Some of these examples
are strikingly original, a genius in some
lines of work or thought, yet in the ordinary
affairs of life wanting in those traits that
bring success, and capable of transmitting
to posterity an unstable mentality and a
vitiated heredity. The poor you have al-
ways with you, the mentally defective like-
wise; in the one case a distinctive hereditary
taint as a causative factor and at the same
time preventable, in the other a misfortune.
You can neither legislate nor educate pover-
ty from the world, but you can educate
hereditary mental defectives out of exist- 
ence.
	In your labors of love among the poorer
classes there is a vast field open to you, a
field that has not received the attention it
deserves, a field that by its newness begets
opposition in the ignorant, and yet a field of
work that will amply pay for all your time
and labor, and the result will be—what?—
Better children born and unborn.


