While the influences which determined that the pioneers settle in villages are quite well known, it may be interesting to enumerate them here. In the first place, it was necessary that people be close together in order to protect themseives from the attacks of the Indians. In fact, most of our towns began as forts. Not until the Indians were finally subjugated were the people able to enlarge materially the community area. Another reason for the settlement in villages was the fact of irrigation. The canal systems were very limited, so that people tended to cluster about the source of irrigation water, the river. Those who settled very far from the river found it difficult to secure culinary water. A third influence might be that of the New England community itself. Many of the "Mormon" leaders came from New England, and were doubtless acquainted with that type of community, so that the natural thing for them to do was to establish communities comparable to those with which they were familiar. Then, too, the "Mormon" community was settled differently from those of other rural sections. They came in a group; whereas, settlers in other rural areas came one by one, and settled apart on their farms. The "Mormon" people had felt a strong community bond, because of their experiences in braving together the perils of the prairie in the great western exodus, and because the presence of a common antagonism had made it necessary for them to hang together in order to avoid "hanging separately." Finally, the people craved the services of social institutions, especially that of the Church. They wanted to be fed spiritually. UTAH RURAL LIFE 173 They had one motive only in coming to Utah; that of achieving freedom to worship God in the manner which they desired. Their motivation was not primarily economic. Consequently it would have gone "against the grain," if they had been separated from one another had been denied the privelege of frequently communing together in religious services. Furthermore, the leaders desired that the Church be a vital institution in the lives of the people, and recognized that in order for it to maintain its greatest effectiveness, it should be able to reach all of the people regularly. The village community afforded opportunity to accomplish this. Certain of the influences described have now ceased to be of any consequence. The Indians are no longer a menace to safety. Irrigation canals have been lengthened and extended, so as to permit of farmers living on their individual farms. Perhaps the influence of the river and the topography of the land still exert some influence; but the greatest present influence which is tending to preserve the village intact, as is the case in many of our rural communities, is the fact that it makes accessible to the group the modern social institutions. For example, a thousand farm people scattered about on individual farms, would take some of them so far away from the central church or school, or store, that it would very much handicap them. On the other hand, where they live in a compact village, all of them are within easy walking distance of the school, the church, the store, etc. Furthermore, the fact that they are in a village, makes it possible for them to unite on projects and secure modern conveniences for all at a cost which is relatively low, and which under conditions of open country settlement, would be prohibitive for the vast majority. The town of Escalante, for instance, bonded itself for $12,- 000 and secured an electric lighting system, of which about half of the families of the town are able to get the benefit. That is, there are nearly 100 families who have electric lights in their homes—more could have them if they wished—at a cost of about $120 per family. Private electrical plants cost in the neighborhood of $800 to $1,000. Municipal water systems are possible for the small village of 500 people, but if they were scattered about over a large area, they could not secure a private water system except at a considerable cost over what the community system would be. The same is true of sewage disposal. In short, the village can, if it will, supply most of the needs which a larger city is able to provide. Consolidated schools are possible here because of the village system, In the open country sections of the prairie, eastern, and 
 southern states, consolidation is very difficult to achieve, becatise of the fact that farm roads are impassable part of the year, and children cannot be transported to a central school. Finally, the church can be maintained in the village, because it is more accessible to all of the people. Utah is fortunate in that so many of its rural communities are of one religious faith. One of the tragedies of present day rural life in America is that of the decline of the church, and many students of the problem assign the cause to that of denominational rivalry. Great financial burdens are placed upon the relatively few adherents of each competing church, until finally, it is given up entirely. The chances in Utah for the development of a rural civilization of surpassing quality, are exceedingly favorable. The solution of some economic problems must be arrived at first, and after that is accomplished, it is necessary to develop in the people on the farm the feeling that they are the "salt of the earth," and are consequently entitled to institutions and services of the same excellence as are those of the city. Nothing is too good for the farmer and his family. He is entitled to the modern conveniences of life—even some of the luxuries—and he should see to it that he gets them. His children are entitled to the same cultural home environment which is characteristic of the best urban homes. He is entitled to the best daily paper, the best libraries, the best schools, the best churches, which the Twentieth Century is able to offer. Adversity By Samantha T. Brimhall Fole\ Adversity, shouldst thou depart To leave me evermore, And mammon come to fill thy place. Gold heaping at my door That I should never want again, Or need to call a friend, Shall I dismiss the hidden hand Which thou didst always lend? When pride of gold shall fill my mind To hush the faith I feel, Drop I the threads and wind no more From God's eternal reel? Break not the strand and go away For this is Heaven's gold. Which brighter shines, Adversity In settings of thy mould, EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: - - - - - - - Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - -: - Auice Louise REYNOLDS Business Manager..... - -: - - Jeanette A. Hyor Assistant Manager - - - - Amy Brown Lyman , Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 
Vol. XII APRIL, 1925 No. 4 Some Social Problems in Country Life Our social problems do not seemingly diminish in this Twentieth century life of ours. The disposition to leave the country and go to the city is not growing less as time passes. Mr. Branson, professor of rural economics in the University of North Carolina said, in a lecture recently delivered at the Utah Agricultural College, "The city of Rome in its palmiest days was a country village compared with some of our large cities of today. At present there are seven million people living in New York City alone, and the London police have jurisdiction over eleven million people, while the London School Board presides over thirteen million." The disposition to congregate in cities depletes the country districts materially. In the state of Illinois there are fifteen hundred abandoned churches in rural districts, and in one state in the Union there are eight hundred abandoned churches of one denomination. Statistics go to show that one out of seven persons in New York City finds a pauper's grave, while one of every three persons in London is buried as a pauper. These statistics may call to mind the fact that within the last two years President Heber J. Grant and the members of the Council of the Twelve have strongly advised the Latterday Saints, wherever practical, to stay on their farms. The wisdom of this advice will be apparent in the light of the statistics quoted. The problem of rural life is not a greatly aggravated problem in Utah, at the present time, for the 
 simple reason that Brigham Young had the vision to advise the people to build in communities where they could have the advantage of community life. Asa rule the greatest amount of dissatisfaction with rural life is not found among the people living in compact, well-organized communities, but rather from persons leading lonely lives on farms that are far apart. The Missionary Work of Young Women in Great Britain Somewhere from about 1897 until 1904, a group of young women were called from Zion to fill missions in Great Britain. Among this number was Counselor Jennie B. Knight who was one of the first. After 1904, the practice was discontinued, no doubt, for good and sufficient reason. There were doubtless persons who regretted quite sincerely that young women, as missionaries, had been taken from Great Britain, as many people believe that women as a class are very spiritual in their nature, and for this reason apt to impress others with a vital spiritual message. To any who had regrets, we wish to say that the discontinuance of sending young women from Zion to do missionary work, has in no wise stopped the missionary work of women as one may learn who cares to talk with the women of the Church in Great Britain. While in London we visited the meetings of the North London branch, and one evening attended the Relief Society meeting. One of the distinct thrills we had, while in London, was listening to a young Jewish girl, who has a beautiful voice, sing, "Jesus, Lover of My Soul." This same young woman is a very active member of the Relief Society. She told me that the gospel was brought to her by one of her friends. She and two of her sisters are now in the Church. In telling her story, she revealed the fact that the people of her own church were very much distressed at their leaving the Jewish church, and joining the Latter-day Saints. It doubtless took a great deal of courage on the part of these young women to sever their connection with their own people, and join the Church of Christ. We asked the three young women presiding over the Relief Society, how they came to be interested in the gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints, and they each in turn said that it had been brought to them by young women who were their friends. A young woman-who had moved to London from South Africa, having won a scholarship at the Royal Academy of Music, was at the October fast meeting. We asked her how she come to join the Church; she replied to our question by moving her hand from her own lap to the lap of the woman who sat nexti to her and said, EDITORIAL 177 as she did so, "This sister brought me the gospel." One of the young women told me that she stoutly refused the invitation of a friend, who works at the same place of business, to attend meeting. "Why," she said, "I know a young woman the 'Mormons' have spirited away. Nevertheless," she added, "since you urge, I will go with you." Very greatly to her surprise. One of the first persons she saw when entering the meeting was the friend whom - she believed had been ''spirited away." She chatted with her friend, and the interest thus aroused led to her conversion and baptism. One young woman said that the opposition felt by her mother when she joined the Church, had disappeared because of the change for the better her mother had noted in her life. One young woman told me she had interested five young women who are now members of the Church. Dr. Kate Waller Barrett With a deep sense of sorrow and personal loss the women of Utah note the recent death of Dr. Kate Waller Barrett, for she was their true and loyal friend. For many years past Dr. Barrett has figured in all the most noteworthy councils of women. She has held many offices of honor and leadership not only in important organizations of women, but her talent and splendid judgment have been recognized by the men of the nation and she has been called by them to responsible positions and missions, some of them quite unusual for a woman.; The delegates from the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. To the National and International Councils of Women always received from her a friendly welcome and valiant support, which they were pleased to reciprocate when in her travels she more than once visited in Utah. Mrs. Barrett was the possessor of many natural gifts and a beautiful personality. She was a daughter of the South, having been born in Virginia, a kinswoman of Robert E. Lee. Her soft Southern accent and magnetic beauty fascinated her audiences whenever she graced a public platform. She stood for progress along all lines but particularly did she champion the cause of defenseless and betrayed girls, and the best years of her life were devoted to the establishment and maintenance of the Florence Crittenden Homes?these homes to be a refuge for fallen women where they might have protection and encouragement to regain and recover themselves. She insisted with eloquent and uncompromising earnestness upon one standard of morality for both sexes. The memory of so lively a woman and so chivalrous a friend will ever remain in the hearts of those who knew her. The intrinsic worth of her kindly deeds and her unselfish devotion to humanity stand forever as an inspiration for all womankind.