Of Interest to Women Conducted by Lalene H. Hart Will you suggest a way to remedy a croquett mixture that ls too soft to mold?. Soften some granulated gelatine in a little cold water, dissolve over hot water, add to the mixture and chill. It can then be molded easily. When the croquetts are cooked the gelatine will soften and they will be moist and creamy inside. Croquetts are best fried. In deep fat or they may be baked, if there is not enough fat. What can I do with mayonnaise that was curdled? The usual cause of mayonnaise crudling is that the oil is added too fast, or it may be the ingredients are too warm. Beat an egg yolk and add slowly to the mixture which has curdled, being careful to keep it cold. When all is beaten in smooth, add the remainder of the oil. The ingredients for mayonnaise should be kept very cold and combined slowly in order to make a smooth, thick dressing. How can I utilize left-over biscuits? The easiest and quickest way is to put them in a dripping pan, pour just enough hot water over them to moisten well, cover with lid or same sized pan. Put in the oven and heat. The steam will soften them and they will be light and fluffy as fresh ones. Another way is to beat an egg, add one half cup milk, two tablespoons sugar and a dash of nutmeg or cinnamon. Cut the biscuits in halves, dip in the egg mixture and fry in hot fat to a golden brown. Serve as toast. How can I use cream that I have tried to whip, but have been unsuccessful? Chill the cream, separate an egg and chill the white. Whip the cream and the egg together and note results. Cream that is really too thin to whip, but has been beaten can be used for sauce by cutting marshmallows into small pieces and allowing them to dissolve and blend in the cream for several hours before using. Lettuce may be kept crisp for many days if it is kept covered with a pan or bowl; and an excellent way to keep celery crisp is to clean it and place in a two quart fruit jar and partly screw the lid on?Mrs. W. J. I., Salt Lake. (Note) They should be kept where it is very cool, or they might mold. A very good and absorbent mop cloth can be made from 
 several cotton stockings. Sew them together and quilt with long stitches on the sewing machine.?Mrs. L. S. B., Garfield, Utah. To avoid wasting the small pieces of toilet soap, when taking a new bar, slightly moisten both the old and the new pieces, press small pieces firmly into the new bar and they will stick together like glue?Mrs. E. A. N., Fountain Green, Utah. (Note) Pieces of laundry soap may be put in a cup for that purpose and dissolved into a soft soap and used for many purposes. They may be put into a soap-shaker and used especially for dishes. If you haven't a soap-shaker, buy one for ten cents and save soap and time. Often envelopes unsealed come to you in the mails. Cut off the gummed portion of these and save for mending torn music books or magazines, sealing packages or labelling your canned fruits?Mrs. G. R. Duncan, Arizona. A string wet with kerosene and tied around sugar cans or barrels, latd cans, or anything that attracts ants, will keep them away. The string should be moistened every two or three days.? Mrs, A. L., Redmond, Utah. Living on a farm where I have plenty of chickens and eggs, I find it a help also a money saver to hang a flour sack near the stove and when there are any egg shells, put them into the sack, let dry and crush. Put away to feed chickens in the winter. They take the place of oyster shells. Chickens do not really need them in the summer.?Mrs. T. T. M., Drummond, Idaho.