[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 14 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: Making Right Choices Marianne C. Sharp]
Going back and forth between her bedroom and the bath, she heard her mother and father talking in now low, now louder, tones. "Bless her,' Celia murmured, grateful tears coming into her eyes. Because Mother was really telling Papa about his old-fashioned ways, the necessity of making the sort of impression Celia wanted on_ her hoped-for fiance. And, as usual, when Mother really meant business, Papa was listening. 'Though even now he was breaking in, grumbling about dinner being served at the unheard of hour of eight o'clock. "My father never ate supper after six in his life," he fumed. Celia's mother succeeded in calming him. "It's Celia's future that's at stake. She's nineteen. At that age you thought you knew what was best for you, too." Celia's mother had been so successful that, at a quarter of eight, just as the old-fashioned buzzer on the front door sang through the house, announcing Jamie, her father came from her parents' room downstairs, dressed in his tuxedo. As Celia flew down the stairs, her blue chiffon dress spreading fan-like around her, her dark-gold hair drawn back into a lady-like chignon, her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 grateful glance even noted his black bow tie, and cracked, but polished patent leather shoes. HERE in the small entrance-way with its fanlight, the rosepatterned paper on the walls, the friendly smell of turkey coming from the kitchen, Celia thought for one breathless instant that Jamie was going to kiss her. But tonight was different from times at college. This was Jamie's formal visit to meet her parents, to decide. Celia was so in love that she was past minding that her own decision had been made long ago, and_ that Jamie might know it. Dark-haired Jamie gave her his hat. Men, it seemed, still wore hats in San Francisco. San Francisco, Celia thought, with another catch in her throat, was perhaps one of the few formal cities left in the United States. Certainly in Callifornia. Celia's parents dutifully came into the living room, "parlor," Papa called it. "Jamie, I'd like you to meet my parents," Celia said, her voice a little high and shaky. "Mother, Papa, this is James Thornton." Papa started to rock back and forth on his toes, giving Jamie the once-over as he did in court.