[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Why Not | Author: Jones]
Helen Hinckley Jones OU want to write a short story. Well, why not? Go ahead and write it. Don't read a book on how to write it; don't go to a lecture and note down a dozen rules; don't even read this article until after you have written it. That is, unless you are able to put these suggestions in the back of your mind and forget them. I've seen too many writers get paralysis through analysis. Worrying too much about the how of writing keeps you from living in the what. Perhaps you have the story already in your mind and heart. A story needs to live with you in both these regions, in order to be a really good story. Maybe you have carried it with you for years. Maybe it occurred full bloom to you last night. But, if you don't have a story, you can still create one. Notice the word is create and not contrive. Are you old enough to remember how the balky pump used to be primed? You can prime your mind, too, and sometimes by priming you get a surprising flow of good story ideas. Here are a few pump primers. See if you can recall—through your emotions, not through your mind — some moment in your own life that had a powerful emotional impact upon you. Did you ever feel really lighthearted, really brokenhearted, really buoyed up? If you have felt these emotions, or a hundred others, see if you can coax the same reaction back into your physical body. See if you can feel again. This is one ability that is shared by most creative people. If you can, Page 296 then the situations in which you felt this way will occur to you and you will have an idea or incident out of which to make a story. You may not be able to do this. If not, here is a purely mental primer. Think of some person whose life has touched yours. You are not going to tell his story. That would be biography. You think of this character until you can lift him out of his time and place. You know his strength and his weakness. Now you say, "What if?" You put this person into many many situations and try to imagine how he would react to these situations. You will probably catch on to a story. Very frequently I use my father in my books and stories. I knew him so well. You see I knew him almost as well as I know myself, because we were much alike. If I need to get really inside the character of a man, I give him the same combination of material and spiritual qualities which I know so well. In my novel, The Mountains Are Muine, my Amos Farnsworth has my father's wisdom and patience and reliance on God. Still another primer is to think about universal truths in which you teally believe. You can start with Poor Richard's Almanac, or you can start with Proverbs in the Bible. What do you deeply believe? Now you create a character who does not believe this thing and allow her to have the experiences which will bring her to the point where she will agree with you. Don't try to create a story in a day. Figure on doing a great deal WHY NOT WRITE A STORY? Of "brooding" on your idea. Let the idea mature and ripen and take form before you try to put it down on paper. I know that many good stories have been written in the fire of a moment's inspiration. I know even more that haven't. A famous short story writer recently said that one of her stories took her twentytwo years before an_ incident touched the whole idea off and made it into a story. But maybe you had better not wait twenty-two years, if you plan to enter this year's Relief Society Short Story Contest! AN* WAY, now you have a story to tell and your problem is to tell it. My advice is to get where you can enter the mood of the story. One author who writes graphic stories of the South Seas has one corner of a room with books about the islands on low shelves, a map of the area on the wall beside him. He studies the map and the pictures until he "goes under," as one might go under an anesthetic. Then he writes. The important thing is to write as fast as you can and as freely as you can. I try to remove my conscious mind from the whole operation and tap a deeper flow of creative energy. If I stop to worry about vocabulary or sentence structure, I'm lost. The day is lost. 'The story is lost. If you can do the story at one sitting, so much the better. I wrote while my girls were babies, so I know that that can't always be done.