[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Contest]
Contest Announcements—1958 CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1958 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. Beginning this year the amounts of the prize awards for poetry have been increased from $25, $20, and $15, to $40, $30, and $20; and for stories, from $50, $40, and $30, to $75, $60, and $50. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contests study carefully the articles on story writing and poetry which appear in this Magazine and similar articles in the May issue 1955, 1956, and 1957, and in the June issue for the preceding nine years. &liza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1958. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize $40 Second prize - $30 Third prize -..22..0- $20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1959 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birthmonth of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Page 290 Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. ) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5: No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poems. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used.