[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  May  i,  and  May  15,  1898 
'Tor  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  IN  WAYNE  STAKE:  The  Rehef  Society 
conference  was  held  in  the  Thurber  Rehef  Society  hall.  Meeting  was  called  to  order 
by  Counselor  Mary  E.  Hanks  .  .  .  said  she  desired  to  see  the  young  people  step  forward 
in  the  Church  and  prayed  God  to  bless  the  sisters  in  their  labors.  Loa,  Thurber  and 
Grover  branches  were  represented  by  their  respective  presidents.  Teasdale,  Cainsville, 
Aldrich  and  Giles  were  also  reported  by  their  representatives.  .  .  .  Stake  President  Jane  S. 
Coleman  was  pleased  with  the  reports  given  and  felt  to  thank  the  Lord  for  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel.  ...  At  our  meetings  we  should  make  choice  of  elevating  subjects,  such 
as  virtue,  charity  .  .  .  also  to  see  that  our  rcx:ords  are  kept  in  good  condition.  Spoke  in 
very  appreciative  terms  of  what  the  Thurber  Relief  Society  had  accomplished.  .  .  . 
Through  their  energy  and  the  assistance  of  the  brethren  they  have  built  a  fine  brick 
building. 
— Annie  O.  Coleman,  Sec. 
CLARA  BARTON:  Clara  Barton  has  started  for  Cuba  again  with  an  army  of 
women.  They  carry  food  for  the  starving,  clothing  for  the  naked,  medicine  for  the 
sick  and  succor  for  the  dying.  Surely  such  soldiers  as  Red  Cross  women  deserve  to  be 
voters! 
— News  Note 
MOTHERS  CONGRESS  IN  WASHINGTON,  D.  C.:  The  dispatches  bring  news 
of  the  Mothers  Congress  now  in  session  in  Washington  and  to  which  four  .  .  .  Utah 
women  are  in  attendance.  Hannah  Sorenson,  Augusta  W.  Grant  and  Hattie  B.  Harker, 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  Delia  Booth  of  Provo. — News  Note 
MARTIN  LUTHER 
.  .  .  Yet  this  brave  and  gifted  leader 
Was  tender  in  his  love. 
In  his  care  for  wife  and  children 
He  was  gentle  as  a  dove. 
In  his  character  was  mingled 
The  stern,  the  fierce,  the  kind. 
Defiant  when  beset  by  wrong, 
Yet  graceful  and  refined.  .  .  . 
— Mary  A.  Freeze 
DAUGHTERS  OF  THE  REVOLUTION:  Our  aim  is  high.  It  is  to  imbue 
our  sons  and  daughters  with  the  love  of  liberty  and  unity  which  are  the  greatest  blessings 
vouchsafed  a  nation.  Our  object  is  to  study  the  divine  institutions  of  our  country. 
To  make  ourselves  familiar  with  the  history  of  our  country  and  with  the  lives  of  our 
great  men  and  women.  .  .  . 
— Clarissa  L.  S.  Williams 
QUEEN  WILHELMINA:  A  date  in  mid-September,  1898,  will  probably  be 
the  day  upon  which  Queen  Wilhelmina  of  Holland  will  formally  take  the  oath  of 
succession  to  the  Dutch  throne.  No  one  could  have  shown  more  tact  in  managing 
affairs  of  state  during  her  daughter's  minority  than  the  Queen  Regent,  who,  like  her 
sister,  the  Duchess  of  Albany,  is  a  person  of  singularly  unpretentious  manners. 
— News  Note 
Page  304