[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Magazine | Author: Sharp]
[Magazine Honor Roll for 1957 Marianne C. Sharp]
the  Magazine  is  truly  a  masterpiece.  The 
writing  is  beautifully  sensitive,  yet  re- 
strained, and  the  quiet  strength  of  the 
pioneer  woman  is  revealed  with  much 
artistry.  Let  us  hear  again  from  Mrs. 
Kingsbury. 
— Dorothy  }.  Roberts 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
I  observed  with  interest  the  beautiful 
netting  in  the  November  1957  issue  of 
the  Magazine,  and  thought  perhaps  you 
might  be  interested  to  know  how  my 
grandmother,  Nancy  Shaffer  Perry,  did  it. 
She  did  not  have  a  shuttle  or  other  equip- 
ment, so  Grandpa  whittled  her  out  some 
large  needles  of  wood.  They  had  large  eyes, 
and  Grandma  had  a  way  of  putting  the 
thread  in  many  times  so  that  it  formed  a 
very  long  thread  to  work  with  without 
tying  new  threads  all  the  time.  Then  she 
had  her  sticks,  etc.,  and  she  did  beautiful 
work.  One  thing  she  made  was  a  bed- 
spread, which  my  daughter  really  prizes. 
— Florence  Thurston 
Ogden,  Utah 
Each  issue  of  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine is  an  inspiration  to  me.  I  love  the 
stories.  "Fifty  Singing  Aprils,"  in  the  Feb- 
ruary issue,  by  Mabel  Law  Atkinson,  the 
second  prize  story,  is  beautifuUy  written, 
with  a  great  depth  of  love  and  tender- 
ness to  inspire  all  of  us.  I  look  forward 
for  each  Magazine  to  arrive  and  wish  to 
thank  everyone  who  makes  it  so  beautiful 
and  inspiring. 
— Mrs.  Orlena  Arnell 
St.  Charles,  Idaho 
I  always  enjoy  the  Magazine,  especially 
the  story  edition  (April).  Of  course,  I 
gain  most  from  the  lessons,  and,  being  a 
stake  leader,  they  are  vital  to  me.  But 
for  plain  enjoyment  I  read  the  stories  and 
poetry. 
— Sadie  H.  Greenhalgh 
I  don't  know  what  I  would  do  if  my 
Relief  Society  Magazine  arrived  on  a  day 
when  I  couldn't  take  time  off  to  read  it. 
Even  the  busiest  days,  I  can't  put  it 
down  until  I  have  read  it  from  co\er  to 
cover.  My  husband  and  I  were  pleasantly 
surprised  to  see  the  picture  of  Dr.  Russell 
Nelson  and  his  family  and  the  lo\ely 
article  written  by  his  sweet  wife  Dantzel 
in  the  February  issue.  Dr.  Nelson  helped 
the  Lord  spare  my  life  while  in  Boston, 
for  which  we  are  so  extremely  grateful. 
Because  of  this  marvelous  blessing  I  have 
been  given  the  opportunity  of  being  Re- 
lief Society  president,  and  I  gain  so  much 
from  the  wonderful  companion.  The  Re- 
Jief  Society  Magazine. 
— Grace  S.  Mortimer 
Nephi,  Utah 
La  Marque,  Texas 
Although  I  am  a  man,  I  enjoy  The 
ReUef  Society  Magazine  as  much  as  my 
Relief  Society  sister  does.  I  worked 
with  Relief  Societies  in  Missoula,  Mon- 
tana, about  thirty  years  ago,  also  in  Idaho 
in  two  different  wards.  May  I  say  I  have 
never  worked  with  finer,  cleaner,  or  sweeter 
ladies  than  those  sisters  were.  I  am  past 
eighty-two  years  and  have  been  a  Church 
member  since  1897.  ^  ^"^  ^^^^  oldest 
member  in  Missoula  Ward. 
— Ariel  G.  Nielsen 
Missoula,  Montana 
Just  a  line  to  express  my  appreciation 
for  Mabel  Law  Atkinson's  beautiful  poem 
"Perfect  Prelude"  in  the  January  1958 
issue  of  the  Magazine.  Her  last  thought: 
"I  never  knew  the  mellowed  years  could 
be  the  perfect  prelude  to  eternity,"  is  so' 
wonderful  and  so  true.  .  .  .  We  appreci- 
ate not  only  the  Magazine,  but  also  the 
wonderful  material  given  us  for  Relief 
Society  work.  The  lessons  are  outstand- 
ing. Many  thanks.  I  have  had  the  priN'i- 
lege  of  serving  in  Relief  Society  more 
than  forty-five  years  and  feel  it  has  been 
a  splendid  experience. 
—Elizabeth  H.  Welker 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Page  282