[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 15 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Week]
[Notes to the Field: Brigham Young University Leadership Week]
music  heard.  Hear  the  notes  of  axultance  as  you,  a  perfect  little  flower  of  humanitv — 
the  live  doll  for  whom  I  had  yearned  since  a  small  child — were  placed  in  my  waiting 
arms.  Hear  the  tones  of  awe  and  wonder  as  I  watched  you  growing  and  made  little 
dresses  for  you,  and  curled  your  hair;  as  I  saw  you  taking  part  in  Sunday  School  and 
Primary,  in  school  programs,  in  high  school  and  college  aeti\ities  and  in  IMutual. 
Listen  and  you  will  hear  in  my  song  the  added  o\ertones  of  beauty  when  you 
confided  to  me  that  the  one  man  had  told  you  of  his  love.  That  was  when  ^'ou  whis- 
pered to  me — it  was  just  past  midnight  and  you  had  wakaicd  me — "Mama,  he  holds 
me  at  my  best."  Listen,  and  clarion-clear  will  come  in  winging,  mounting  crescendos 
the  reverence  and  gratitude,  the  humility  and  pride  in  mv  soul  as  I  walked  with  you 
the  temple  aisles  and  saw  the  wonder  on  your  face  and  received  from  your  eyes  the  flash 
of  understanding  of  all  that  lay  ahead  in  your  never-ending  journcv  of  happiness. 
Dear,  precious  girl  of  mine,  can  you  hear  the  rapturous  lyrics  of  the  stars  in  my 
song  because  of  the  renewed  fulfillment  I  receive  each  time  vou  place  a  new  little 
grandchild  in  my  arms?  Now  I  watch  you  welcoming  and  caring  for  each  new  baby 
with  a  joy  which  passeth  understanding,  and  you  still  find  the  time  to  go  be\'ond  }'Our 
own  walls  to  serve  others  of  the  Master's  children,  as  you  grow  in  sweetness  and  compas- 
sion. 
So  listen,  my  daughter,  on  this  Mother's  Day,  to  my  song  of  gratitude  in  praise 
of  you. 
cJhe  Lrropnet  jjoseph  Smiths  cJnbute  to   cHts    lliotlier 
■jV/fY  mother  is  one  of  the  noblest  and  the  best  of  all  women.  May  God  grant  to 
-^  ■■■  prolong  her  days  and  mine,  that  ^^'e  may  live  to  enjo}-  each  other's  society  long, 
and  to  breathe  the  free  air  (D.  H.  C.  V,  page  126).

The  Uruguayan  Mission 
Preston  R.  Nihley 
Assistant  Church  Historian 
TN  May  1947,  the  First  Presidency  announced  that  a  new  mission  of  the 
Church  would  be  estabhshed  in  the  country  of  Uruguay,  South  America, 
with  Fredrick  S.  Wihiams  of  South  Gate,  Cahfornia,  as  president.  This 
was  the  third  mission  for  President  Wilhams  in  South  America;  he  had 
ser\ed  in  the  South  American  Mission  from  1927  to  1929,  and  as  President 
of  the  Argentine  Mission  from  1938  to  1942. 
After  his  release  from  the  Argentine  Mission,  President  Williams  had 
spent  several  years  in  Uruguay  as  an  employee  of  the  United  States  Govern- 
ment.   He  was  therefore  well  qualified  to  preside  over  the  new  mission. 
President  Williams  and  family  arrived  in  Montevideo  during  the  latter 
part  of  August  1947.  He  soon  purchased  a  mission  home,  where  a  meeting 
was  held  on  September  7th,  with  nine  people  in  attendance.  The  work  of 
proselvting  has  continued  since  that  time. 
After  having  served  faithfully  for  almost  four  years,  as  the  first  president 
of  the  Uruguayan  Mission,  President  Williams  was  released  in  July  1951, 
and  was  succeeded  bv  Elder  Lyman  S.  Shreeve.  President  Shreeve  was 
presiding  in  January  1954,  when  the  Uruguayan  Mission  was  visited  by 
Courtesy  Oficina  Nacional  de  Turismo  del  Uruguay 
Photograph   submitted  by   Afton   K.    Shreeve 
A  COUNTRY  SCENE,  LAVELLEJA,  URUGUAY 
Page  288

THE  URUGUYAN  MISSION 
289 
Courtesy  Oficina  Nacional  de  Turismo  del  Uruguay 
Photograph  submitted   by   Louise   B.    Parry 
VIEW  OF  PUNTA  DEL  ESTE,  MALDONADO,  URUGUAY 
President  Da\id  O.  McKav,  who  was  making  a  tour  of  the  South  American 
missions.  President  McKay  was  accompanied  by  Mrs.  McKa}-  and  their 
son  Robert. 
On  January  30,  1954,  at  Montexideo,  President  McKav  laid  the  corner- 
stone "of  the  first  complete  Church  edifice,  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  built  in  South  America." 
President  Shreeve  served  as  mission  president  until  September  19^5, 
when  he  was  succeeded  by  Frank  D.  Parry.  After  a  brief  illness,  Sister 
Louise  B.  Parrv,  wife  of  President  Parry,  died  at  Montevideo,  on  June  7, 
1956.  With  the  help  of  his  daughter,  Sharon  Louise  Parry,  President  Parry 
continued  to  preside  over  the  mission  until  March  1958,  when  he  was  suc- 
ceeded by  Arthur  M.  Jensen. 
On  December  31,  1957,  there  were  1,800  members  of  the  Church  in 
the  Uruguayan  Mission,  located  in  thirty-two  branches. 
Twenty-eight  Relief  Society  organizations,  with  :;78  members,  were 
reported  in  December  1957.  Lois  Geniel  Hansen  Jensen  presides  over  the 
Uruguayan  Mission  Relief  Society.