[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Fiction | Title: The Finish (continued) | Author: Frances C. Yost]
and  were  wiping  their  eyes. 
Then  Granny  Crocket  continued: 
"That  was  such  a  good  chance  for 
Wilford.  It  meant  a  whole  week- 
end of  good  eating.  It  meant  roasts 
and  gravy,  vegetables  and  fruit,  cool 
milk  and  rich  cream  on  the  cereal 
for  breakfast,  and  good  desserts  like 
carrot  pudding  and  vinegar  pie.  But 
dear  old  Wilford  was  too  .  .  .  too 
loyal  to  go  and  leave  me.  He  turned 
that  wonderful  invitation  down.  He 
said  he  had  to  cram  for  tests." 
"What  did  you  do?  Did  the  sup- 
plies get  through  from  your  own 
folks?"  Tom  asked. 
"No,  the  supplies  didn't  come, 
and  the  mail  didn't  get  through, 
either.  We  had  hoped  every  day 
for  something  from  Pa  or  Ma,  but 
nothing  came.  We  just  went  on 
eating  boiled  potatoes.  Finally,  I 
couldn't  look  a  potato  in  the  face. 
That's  the  honest  truth.  I  sort  of 
started  just  living  on  water. 
^^TT  was  the  next  week  end  that 
Grandpa  Lee  asked  me  to  go 
home  with  him.  It  was  a  big 
temptation.  I  would  have  said  'yes' 
too  quickly  to  be  polite,  but  then 
I  remembered  Wilford  who  had 
sacrificed  the  same  chance  for  me 
only  a  week  before.  I  started  to 
say,  I  had  to  study,  but  Wilford 
came  along  and  said,  'Of  course 
she'll  go  with  you,  Lee.' 
"Somehow  I  just  had  to  be  loyal

THE  FINISH  317 
as  my  brother,  even  if  I  died,  so  I  'That's  what  I  started  out  to  tell 
said,  'But  I  have  to  cook  for  Wil-  you.      I    didn't    finish.      I    married 
ford!'  Grandpa  Lee.    We  stayed  on  at  the 
*'  'Cook  for  me,  that's  a  laugh!'  Academy,  however.     Grandpa   Lee 
Wilford     said.      'She'll    have    her  was  taken  on  as  the  shop  instructor, 
clothes  packed  the  minute  school's  teaching  woodwork.    So,  instead  of 
out!'  being  a  student,  I  became  one  of 
"It  was  a  wonderful  trip  in  the  the  faculty  member's  wives, 
old  whitetop  buggy.  If  I  hadn't  been  "Now,  Tom,  I   want  you  to  go 
so  hungry,  it  might  have  been  ro-  on  and  finish,  as  I  didn't.     I  want 
mantic.    I  wasn't  thinking  so  much  you  to  take  this  dab  of  money  as 
about    being    with    my    best    boy  a  gift  from  me.     You  know,  Tom, 
friend  and  meeting  his  folks  as   I  I'd  like  to  be  a  little  part  of  the 
was  thinking  about  what  his  mother  finish  with  you."   Granny  Crocket 
might  cook.  winked. 
"Grandpa  Lee  was  the  youngest  Tom  looked  at  the  crisp  ten-dol- 
of  ten  children,  and  his  mother  lar  bill  Granny  Crockett  had  ex- 
always  cooked  things  special  for  him  tended  to  him.  An  hour  ago  he 
when  he  came  home  Friday  nights,  wouldn't  have  been  too  proud  to 
As  we  jogged  along  he  wondered  take  a  ten-dollar  bill  from  anyone, 
what  his  mother  would  have  cooked  But  now  he  looked  into  her  spark- 
up.  And  my  mouth  watered  just  ling  blue  eyes  and  said,  "Granny,  I 
listening  to  him.  I  remember  so  appreciate  your  thinking  of  me,  but 
well  how  we  drove  into  the  lane  and  honest  fact,  we're  getting  along  just 
his  folks  came  out  to  meet  us.  Soon  fine.  Why  you  should  see  what  a 
as  we  were  in  the  house  and  had  pretty  table  Sally  manages  to  set. 
our  wraps  off,  Lee's  father  said:  We  have  cereal  and  milk,  and  most 
'Now  Ma's  fixing  an  early  supper  everything  we  need.  And  look  at 
but,  while  we're  waiting,  have  a  Sally  Lynn  and  Donny.  Why,  only 
glass  of  Ma's  grapejuice.'  yesterday,   Sally  took  them  to  the 
"I  was  glad  for  anything  offered  well-child  clinic  and  they're  gaining 
me.      But    I    had    no    more    fin-  right  along." 
ished  the  grapejuice  than  the  stair-  But  Tom's  speech  hadn't  fooled 
way  at  one  end  of  the  big  living  old  Granny  Crocket.    "Tom,  when 
room  started  going  around,  and  then  a  smart  fellow  like  you  talks  about 
I  fainted  completely  away.  not   finishing  college,  it's  the  lack 
"It    didn't    take    your    Grandpa  of   money   that's   behind   the   talk. 
Lee's  mother  long  to  find  out  what  Take  it!" 
was  ailing  me.  She  was  of  pioneer  "Granny  Crocket,  just  talking  to 
stock  and  had  been  through  life's  you  has  made  me  change  my  mind 
mill  herself.  She  fed  me  well  and  about  quitting  school.  So  you  buy 
loaded  the  buggy  with  all  kinds  of  yourself  a  new  bonnet  with  this 
supplies  for  Wilford  and  me  to  money  and  be  to  the  graduation  ex- 
start  housekeeping  properly  again."  ercises  in  June.     When  they  hand 
"How  long  did  you  go  to  school  me  my  degree,  I  want  you  there  to 
at  the  Academy?"  Tom  asked.  be  part  of  the  finish!"
