Notes from the Field. Amy Brozvn Lyman. Among' the many splendid branches working under the virile ])residency of Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth of the Northwestern States ^lission is the Relief Society of the Evansville Branch, a ])icture ofwhich we here reproduce. It is a pleasure to be thus associated with our sisters out in the mission in the good work of the Relief Society. Benson Stake. On Tuesday, May 2nd, Miss Gertrude Mc- Cheyne of the Agricultural College lectured before the Relief Society of Richmond on the Household Budget. There were pres- ent at the meeting 105 members, 5 stake officers and 40 teachers. After the meeting luncheon was served to all present. Bear Rh'er Stake. A very pleasant social and surprise was recently tendered to Mrs. Mosiah Evans, First Counselor of the Bear River Stake, at the Garland Ward chapel, just before her removal to Spanish Fork, Utah. The social was given in the form of a farewell party and a tribute to Mrs. Evans for her faithful labors in the Relief Society. Mrs. D. E. Manning pre- sided, and beside the stake and local officers and workers in the Society, there were in attendance the Stake Presidency and their wives, a number of High Councilors and Bishops and their wives. NOTES FROM THE EI ELD. 405 A very interesting' program was carried out and an excellent luncheon was served in cafeteria style. Carnations and other beautiful flowers were used as decorations. Mrs. Evans was pre- sented with an engraved gold ring made from Utah gold, and a book of poems, "Alusings and Memories," by Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells. South Sanpete Stake. Mrs. Jane H. Bench, First Counselor in the South Sanpete Stake, recently retired from the Stake Pres- idency on account of ill health. The stake officers held a party in honor of Sister Bench and an enjoyable program was given and refreshments served. Mrs. Bench was presented with a copy of the book of poems, "Musings and Memories," by Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells. Mrs. Bench has for twenty-two years been a faithful worker in the Relief Society, holding offices both in the Ward and in the Stake. The Salt Lake Stake authorities have joined with the Stake Relief Society officers to make a thorough canvass of that whole Stake in the interest of the Living Record sheet. Each ward has called from forty to fifty special workers, taking them from the various auxiliary organizations to visit the homes of the people and to assist the people in preparing a sheet for each individual in the ward. These sample sheets will be filed in the Stake arch- ives and will, no doubt, later become a part of the Church collec- tion in the Genealogical Society's archives. Panguitch Stake. Escalante Ward, in the Panguitch Stake of Zion, has done a very excellent work in securing donations amounting to $59.00 in clothing, shoes and cash for the benefit of the poor of that ward. They had a successful sewing bee one day recently for a bereaved family. The mother died three days after that, leaving her widowed husband and five small children to mourn her loss. We join with the sisters of that ward in of- fering consolation to the mourning husband and children. Donations to J3ishops. Besides all of the charity work that is done by the Relief Society, the various organizations are con- stantly being called upon by the bishops to assist financially with various undertakings in the wards. They are frequently asked to donate furniture, carpets, electric light fixtures for the ward churches, etc., etc. The Malad Stake recently paid $200.00 for carpet for the stake tabernacle. The Bingham Stake Relief Societw during the last year, raisefland donated $413.30 for electric fixtures for the Latter-day Saints Auditorium recentlv erected at Idaho Falls. 406. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. In a letter, dated December 13th, from Mapusaga Tutuila, Samoa, Mrs. Jennie L. Smith writes for outlines suitable to be used among the native sisters of these Islands. She states that these women are very anxious to learn of the Relief Society work in general and to take up cooking and sewing. We were delighted to get a message from far-away Samoa, and to learn that our members in this land are anxious to keep in touch with the work at home. A question has been sent to the office asking if a Relief So- ciety member may receive credit on the Relief Society charity records for her individual charity work. The Relief Society l;ooks record only such charity work as is done by and through tlie officers and members of the organization in their official ca- pacity. The Relief Society of Colonia, Dublan, in Old Mexico, have forwarded to this office $11.00 as their donation for their Temple Day. Think of this, sisters, you who dwel lin the peaceful, favored wards and stakes of this country These Meix.can refugees have done more accordingly for this purpose than any stake in Zion. The General Board are especially touched and pleased with this evidence of faith and generosity on the part of our sisters in war- stricken Mexico. Conferences in all of the distant stakes have occupied the spring months, our Board members going out to visit them. All have reported splendid results of the new activities instituted in our Society during the last few years. The Guide Lessons are greatly enjoyed and are bringing into the Society the young mar- ried women in the communities the Nurse Class work is growing; in value and importance, while the Magazine is universally pop- ular and receives commendation in all quarters. The General Board rejoice greatly in the spirit of unity and willing endeavor wiiich fills every stake visited this spring. — ;