A Prince of Ur. Homespun. Nimrod was moody and sad. He had sought his Rabmags court sorcerers — for comfort and cheer in vain. They had plied their arts to no avail. Augur after augur had been cast, and each had been more gloomy than the last — although the priests had tried in vain to dissemble the results of their incanta- tions. But Nimrod was not so old that he had forgotten his peculiar skill at reading faces and his bold eyes had torn from the inmost thoughts of his attendants the secrets they, would fain have hidden from their master's gloomy eyes. "Why does Mardan linger?" he stormed. No one could answer. — "Bring me my dancing girls" he commanded sharply. And into his presence they trooped, graceful as gazelles, lithe as their own native acacia trees, beautiful with the dusky bloom of Elam or the fair golden locks of the Western barbarian. Their echoing tamborines and the jingle of their sharp little bangles preceded them as they came with the musical tumult into the Presence. Scarcely had they begun their evolutions before there was a great outcry in the outer courts, and into the very midst of the dancers plunged the form of a richly clad princelet, his fringes torn and just now trailing yards behind, his embroidered abaya, as well as his inner white linen tunic torn into shreds by the two huge dogs which clung to him as he dashed across the hall of Audience in a frenzy of fear and despair. It was Mardan. The black dog was at his throat. "The god of my fathers, with all the demons in hell what is — all this?" screamed the monarch, rising on his throne with sudden rage. Even as he spoke, a great crowd of snapping, snarling curs of every description ran into the lighted hall, followed by as many soldiers and slaves, and here and there they ran, upsetting ex- quisite alabaster vases and ivory tables, crushing delicate idols and tearing the splendid tapestries from the walls as they plunged pell mell across the vast spaces of the great Audience hall. It was but a moment — — and the dogs ran out over the court yard, across exquisite flower beds, uprooting choice plants at — every leap up the garden terraces, along the river walls, down the lovely titled walks that led into the precincts of the Ziggarut — proper, and then horror of superstitious horrors — up the Zig- — garut steps they plunged soldiers and priests after the pack and as terrace after terrace was mounted, the dogs plunged in; A PRINCE OF UR. 387 — — — wild rage down down first one and then the other until only the black dog" was left— — with his yellow mate to stand at bay in the very shrine of the gods and there they gave battle to their captors. A dozen priests and bare-legged soldiers had been torn and gashed in the frightful melee. When at last one of the two noble mastiffs had been stretched bleeding and dead, upon the jeweled pavement of the shrine, while the other escaped in wild flight down the terraced steps, the priests were themselves too much overcome with anguish and awe at this malevolent omen to follow the black dog in his downward flight. Quiet and order — — would be restored after a few hours, well it was but an omen others had failed— why not this? So mused Alardan, who stood watching the flight of the pack of attendants. Not so Nimrod. He cast a glance of bitter hatred at the cause of this new disturbance, and it was only by feigning the most courageous disregard of his late peril or of its dire signifi- cance that Mardan could persuade his raging father to listen to his proud, pleading cry. "What am I? That the Son of the Sun shouli look with for- giveness on the least of his slaves? What then is the intent of my heart? Is it that I shall be forever unhappy at the feet of my lord? Is he a father to deny his son? Or have I trusted in my own thoughts? Have I not walked according to thy word? Has not thy mouth guided my goings forth, and thy counsels, have they not directed me? Have I not dedicated this great festival to thee and filled thy temple with the booty of my spoils? This is thy dwelling for myriads of years. The whole world is gath- ering together to dedicate its offerings to thee thus I have en- ; riched thy domain. I am the great High Priest of the sacred shrine of Ishtar. I have prepared to be sacrificed three choice damsels, daughters of Onitah, and their own baby brother the — — innocent offering of his father's breast the head of the son for the head of the father he shall give — the breast of the son for the breast of the father he shall give." The grim and surly humor of the king was visil:)ly shaken — by the sound of this proud if somewhat bombastic recital, de- livered by a man clothed in torn and tattered raiment who had controlled his own fear through some strong motive, and who now stood, alike fearless of man and of the dark omen of the (^ogs which had thrust their impious presence into the very sanctuary of the hoi}' Assyrian god — INIerodach. "What hast thou further to say to me, prince -Mardan?" Nimrod knew very well that all of Mardan's labors and all his chesty avowals were centered on the single point of usurping the post held now by Terah, that of Petesi of Ur for ambition: v.as Mardan's passion — wine and women were but his dalliance. Like father, like son. There was a half doubt, a half pleasure in " " — 
IGAZINE. listening- to — Marclan's ornate appeal to his vanity. Yet Nimrod was restless, and he must be appeased. Mardan drew the rag's of his once elegant attire about him, and with a. proud smile of disdain directed at the cowering danc- ing girls who had shrunk into a far corner when the black dog'^ had enterefl the hall, but who now gathered about him in the ille. frivolous fashion common to court favorites — to them Mardan vouchsafed nought but a contemptuous stare. His was higher aim. "Your gracious majesty —OSun, have I not obeyed the or- ders of thy lips? And thy counsels, have they not guided me? Have I not given glory to thee, to the ends of the earth?" Now fully appeased, but still furiously impatient, Nimrod poused to make reply in the stately language of the court. "Rejoice and be g^lad. Behold, I am near thee. My hand, is with thee and I am more to thee than a million of men. I have found thy heart firm in valor, and my heart exults thereat. But haste, what of the princess Sarai?" "It is of the Princess Royal I would speak. Behold, she approaches this very hour decked in the royal robes of her father's house, riding in her flower-filled chariot, accompanied by her singing maidens and her tiring maidens, her court maidens and her closet friends in waiting, veiled as the high priestess of Ishtar should be veiled. She appears now at the gates of this palace wall to greet thee and to extend the hand of the neophyte-royal. She comes to seek thy gracious pleasure and after this night's initiation in the mysteries of Mylitta's pavement at the hands of — your most glorious majesty shall she not be crowned as the — queen Ishtar of the Ziggarut of Ur the goddess of the moon Korash, to sit in the shrine and to deliver to the children of men the oracles of Nimrod-Merodach?" "That is well, Mardan. I could forgive thee much for this one deed of thine. Nimrod hath no place in his memory where his faithful sons have been blotted out from his own triumphs. I like thy speech — I like most ]:»leasing well the tidings thou hast l:>roug'ht. I shall receive the princess Sarai as befits a royal queen of the province of Ur. Let her come into my presence as soon as her train approaches." "A moment, most powerful of gods. There is just one re- by my lady-queen, and that is — c,uest sent "Speak it — speakAfardan, don't mumble and cringe it. — "Gracious Sun-god, the princess hath the modesty of her sex, and the right jealousy of her surpassing beauty. She hath put up her petition to the sun-god. that he will permit her to remain veiled in his ])rcsence till this evening be gone, lest her eyes should be blinded and her face shrivel in the refulgence of the fire and glory which beams from thy god-like eye." .
 389 — Ninirod sat silent while Marclan stood, ])ale and yet com- posed as if he were Init the bearer of a maiden's modest wish for proper protection in such strange, sudden and unexpected plight. "Her re(|uest shall be on my knees," said Nimrod subtly; "fhe shall not regret her devotion to my religion and my service." With a swing- of his great arms, Nimrod indicated that he would have no more speech. But even as he spoke, the sound of timbals and the tinkling- of zithers ])roclaimed the approach of the royal cortege. They came, one great perfumed mass of flower-wreathed loveliness, their stately carriage and their red- lipped, yet refined physical Semitic luxuriance dimming- the glory of their coarser Assyrian sisters of the harem who were the court favorites and dancing women of Nimrod's train. Nimrod saw the elegant sweep of white tissues, the curl of dark eyelashes, the rounded limb of a young" goddess here and there in the feminine train which now quite filled his audience chamber. He nodded his ap])roval and the long- files openerl to admit the more stately approach of a tall and veiled figure that was like a Nile lily sweei)ing- on its wind-tossed stem. There was so much hateur in the carriage of the head that its lines caught and held the glance of the monarch. There was pride to match his own. There was haughtiness surpassing that of every queen of his long and capricious reign. The long- limbs moved with a willowy grace that was almost too seductive. Nimrod frowned. He had caug'ht but one ])assing" glimpse of this sec|uestered beauty in her — father's ])alace — but he had not thought her voluptuous quite the contrar}'. And yet, in the very panther-like movements of these tissue-clad limbs there was to the practiced eye of the old roue a hint of sophistication which surprised no less than it annoyed. TTe was visibly disappointed. Yet, he could discover very plainly the rich swee]) of midnight hair which escaped its jeweled fillet underneath the filmy veil and fell in midnight wonder to the very ankles of the ])roud Ijcauty who stood — not with the bowed head of an innocent damsel, but with level eyes studying- her captor, as he sat bulked low in the huge carved, g-olden and ivory throne under its canop\' of rich jewels and lustrous tapestries. The g;irl was undeniably exquisite in her stately uprightness, as she stood, neither speaking- nor. crouching-, Init expectant and proudly silent as becanie a queen of the house of Terah. — "My queen, thou hast the favor of thy lord " said Mardan, unable longer to bear the stress of the long and breathless silence. "At the feet of my lord, the king, my god, my sun-god, seven times seven I pro.strate m\self. Seven times seven T kiss the hem of tliA' rol)es, my lord, and my god." At the softly spoken words the danisel had slipped to the floor, and over the huge sandalled feet of the king, she let the 390 RJlLJIiJ' SOCIETV MAGAZINE. trailing- glory of her hair sweep like a veil of perfumed silence. The touch was wine in Nimrod's veins. "The shadow of the glorious sun-goddess which I waited for is in thy face and form, be thou who thou mayst be. In that shadow my soul shall abide for this hour — the king hath sworn it — leave, us." With an outward commanding gesture. the monarch swept the mass of idle couriers and attendants out of his presence, leaving only his private retinue. Mardan was also excluded from the ap-proaching festivities which were to be royally private as befitted the exclusive dignity of a king. And Mardan was glad to go, for he had other and vastly important business which awaited con- summation. He withdrew with pompous ceremony, folding his torn garments about him. Nimrod gave the signal for the entertainment to begin. He had planned to astonish his fair guest with his kingly gorgeous- ness rather than to awe her with any glimpse of his great personal prowess, for with the contempt of the strong for their own strength, he delighted more in those qualities which were entirely ajiart from his brute triumphs. The princess should be wooed with the graces of the court, not crushed by the coarse evidences of his physical supremacy. Nimrod was a cunning man. And with that cunning he united some of the artistic fancies which had come down to him from his remote ancestors on the maternal side — Tubal and Tubal-Cain. The court musicians struck up their clashing melo lies. Out from the dusky recesses of the far end of the now dimly lighted audience hall, treading lightly between the huge carved and fluted pillars of the wonderful chamber, came a vast procession of slaves, bearing fruit baskets of silvered wire, with salvers of gold on which rested great clusters of dark and white grapes, globes of juicy ai^ricots, dates and figs, and yellow-re pomegranates 1 — fol- lowed by the cup-bearers holding aloft their precious vintages, no less costly than the jeweled chalices in which they sparkled and glowed. And as this artistically arranged procession reached the foot of the throne, the lights of the palace were suddenly in- crease a thousand fold, so that the princess might behold upon 1 the frieze of the walls the presentment of the very scene she was witnessing, embossed and carved in exquisitely conceived colors and rainbow-tinted relievo. She gasped with keen, apprehensive ]ileasure. Nimrod was reproducing in her his own late surprised joy. Next followed a band oi stringed musicians, the chords of delight struck upon their quivering harmonies vibrated from nerve to nerve of the charmed listeners. These were youths, clad in the ccnrt garments of white linen, here and there jewelled fillets ca- A PRINCE 01' UR. 391 lessing their tig^htly curled locks which hung^ upon their shoulders, and from their scanty yet gleaming- white attire wafted great bil- lowing waves of perfumes of the san lalwood which formed their lyres. Anon they tapped their sandals with muffled insistence on the richly tiled floors of the hall. After these came a certain few of the court dancing women. And the exquisite coloring of their filmy orange, blue, red, gold, or silver robes dazzled the eyes of the onlooker. For the colore were carefully graded symbols of the accepted shades of the seven planets. As they circled or twisted in slow and lovely rhythms, the artistic blending of their rainbow efifects was so thrilling that the girl who sat at the feet of the king almost swooned with sensuous delight. Their perfumes were attar of roses in delicious restraint of suggestiveness rather than open oppressiveness. Back of these came other dancers, and these increased the rapidity of their movements, but their robes were of pale shadowy tints as 1ecame the daughters of Babylonian princes. These were fol- lowed again by the trained Egyptian muscle dancers. Their swart, yet elegantly supple bodies were almost nude, only the flashing jeweled girdles masked their slim and delicately moulderl bodies. As they began their swirling movements, the veiled princess on the throne steps hid her eyes under her hands. It was the first time she had ever seen these far-famed dancers from the Egyptian courts of the Pharaohs. But as no one spoke to her. she gradually lifted up her eyes, for she was determined that she would not lack in any essential which could catch and hold the errant fancy of this huge monarch of the whole earth. The per- fumes rising from the incense bowls did not overpower the subtler but more penetrating ungents of the Jatamansi or spikenard which floate 1 about these stationary writhers like a circular spiral, up- rising cloud of ethereal suggestion. The entranced and excited girl on the steps of the throne was by this time convinced that the things taking place before her eyes were so rarely conceived in their gradations of color, sound and motion that generations of artists' dreams had evolved the final perfection of their composition. Her perception of the perfumes which had one by one assailed her sensitive nostrils proved that they had been chosen with no less artistic thought than were the other features of this gorgeous and inconceivable entertainment. That the refined and luxurious Chaldeans loved perfumes as her own people did music she had known for long. But that they could (leliberatelv steal from the sacred sanctuary its secrets of o 'ors w'th which to entrance the senses of the courtier was of itself a startling, yet not unpleasant sensation. She lifted her delicate nostrilsand drew in ('eeply the mystic spell of the sensuous per- fumes drifting about her in the lofty spaces of the great Tlall of Aar'ience. Ah, whv shoidd. Al)ram'denv to her all the dear de- " ! — 392 KELIIil' SOCIETY MAGAZINE. — and color and perfnmc just to focus them upon lights, of nmsic, the worship of a god whose very Name was not even to be pro- nounced. How different was this adulation of her own person and the individual kingly effort to win her smiles and her heart. Slie was touched to the core of her vain, selfish, sordid soul. This — was the true meaning- of Life. To enjoy to give and to receive th: pleasure of the senses. With the thought, she lifted up her arms unconsciously, and caressed the feet, huge and sinewy, of the king at whose feet she lay. A scream rang through the palace, x^nother and another, mingled with swift Assyrian curses, and the hoarse bellowing of a dog whose baying wrath smote upon the perfumed silence of the hall within with cruel suddenness. It was the great black dog returning from the chase around tlie terrace and grounds of the Ziggarut. Straight for the throat of Nimrod the great beast came in leaps and bounds with hanging tongue blood-red, and foam- flecked driveling jaws. He stayed not, nor did he falter. The monarch turned with ashy paleness at the ill-omened intrusion, but lie was Nimrod still. He arose to his full height swiftly and Ln-aced himself for the charge. He would not even deign to go down from his throne steps to meet the black precursor of evil tidings. But he did turn and sweep the girl on the throne steps into safety behind his seat. She stood upright, determined to see the whole scene. And such a scene Nimrod caught the maddened beast in his two great hands, and at first he simidy twisted the neck of the dog and threw him — from him. But the dog rose up arching his back in agony, and s])at out his vomit upon the very steps where the princess had been sitting. Reaching down, Nimrod seized the brute, and with tremen- dous grip he tore from its roots the tongue of the crazed animal, and flung it far from him. The dog fought wildly and flung himself "from his grasp as he swung voiceless, soundless and blood-dripping around and around the whole area of that huge vast hall, the dancers and musicians huddling in terror-stricken groups, while the screaming girls clung to each other or some disengaged man with wild and terrible agony. Suddenly some dancer moaned out as if the words were torn from her body "An omen — an omen— Instantlv Nimrod was down from the throne, and catching the brute who had been allowed by the terror-stricken attendants free pas.sage between their helpless ranks, he seized the body of the animal, and actually crushed its Ijones into jelly as he encir- cled the quivering and soon lifeless l)ody. He flung it from him as if it had been a mouse. " — — ! : — J PRINCE OF UR. 393 A few steps from him the poor frightened g'irl was prone upon the floor moaning her plaint "It is an omen-— an omen — —O Nindar i)reserve us from the — Maskin an omen And without a moment's hesitation, as soon as Nimrod had finished his slaughter of the brute, he seized the quivering form of the girl and strangled her remorselessly. He turned thunder- ing to his guards, who by this time had rushed pell-mell into the hall, and bellowed at them "Death to all cowards. Strike, I say strike." A scene of confusion and murder followed which were im- possible to describe. Surely, the princess had been witness to the brute forces which kept this relentless giant on his throne. But when Nimrod approached her in the midst of the screaming- carnage, she merely stepped out from behind the throne to receive his bloody hand and together they left the hall, now crowded with the attendants and the fully cowed priests and courtiers. Nimrod bent graciously above this girl whose fierce spirit had risen up ruthlessly to answer the supreme challenge of his mighty soul. She was his physical mate, young as she was, old as he might be! Together they left the hall In the inner chamber, the king sat upon his couch, the princess beside him. After the magnificent banquet, the rich entertainment, the varied pleasures, and the awful horrors had closed in the early evening's strange surprises. Nimrod stood before his captive, and with the puzzled frown still upon his brow, he said "Like and yet unlike. Not Sarai and yet thou hast pride, — courage and will thou art not that being of supreme charm and beauty, the Princess Sarai. Who and what art thou?" The girl sat at his feet, her head bowed in her hands, the veil of her seclusion still folded about her brows. "I am a princess of the house of Terah. The sister's sister of that other proud and self-willed Sarai, whom all men and women love because of her superior arts and her more finished graces. — Me they tolerate her they adore. What have I done? What have I left undone? Every lesson in grace and culture that she has learned hath 1)een conned by me. Every toil that she has undertaken T have duplicated. And yet, to her is given the crown of supremacy, to me the girdle of jealous bondage. And now even mv veil will not suffice to make me as Sarai in the eyes of my lord." The sobbing breaths of the proud confession struck the re- mains of chivalry that still lingered in the heart of the luige man who l)ent al)ove her, himself half repelled and half fascinated by her unearthlv charm. ! — 
 "Be thou what thou art, but be jealous of no woman. It is the canker which eats out the heart of human souls as rust doth consume the iron wedge. Jealousy is a rage of kings, but be- comes a sword in the breast of a tender woman." "Even thou dost assail me," she wept with bitter unrestraint. Nimrod soothed and scolded the girl. But after all, he was grateful for the unusual diversion after this swift and omen- plagued evening and he was disposed to be more than ordinarily gracious and forgiving for both the deception practiced upon him and the disappointment to his highest hopes. There were other days and nights. Sarai was still to be conquered. Just now the business in hand was quite sufficient. Suddenly in the still watches of the night the ghostly howl of a dog sounded long and penetrating through all the corridors of the Ziggarut. Nimrod ran instantly into his audience cham- ber. With the rage of a wild animal, he beat upon his hands for his frightened attendants. It was the omen — the omen Lights fluttered and came" up, courtiers and soldiers and priests gathered in the Audience hall of the Ziggarut. Nimrod stood like a huge, restless ghost. Behind him walked the daugh- ter of Terah — — Tscah with no trace of cowardice or shrinking in her soul. She might lack many lovable traits, but the courage of her race, reinforced by the teachings of her childhood which protected her from the childish torments of the superstitious, made her at this juncture the ideal counselor of the king. And still at intervals, sounded the faint, ghastly echo of that dog's braying. Wtih a proud sweep of her uncovered arms, her face glow- ing with the fires of a thousand vaulting hopes and worldly ambi- tions, this far from happy, but vain-glorious girl now set herself to use the gifts of her prophetic ancestry to stay the wild disorder she saw sweeping through the palace, all because of a howling, ghostly dog. somewhere in the distance across the courts. Iscah stood up veiled and prophetic beside Nimrod. "Ishtar says," quoth the girl in her wild ecstasy, "fear not. Nimrod. The breath of inspiration which speaks to thee is spoken to me, and I conceal it not. Thine enemies shall melt away frpm before thy feet like the floods of Sivan. I am the mighty mistress Ishtar of Arbella who will put thine enemies to fiight before thy feet." All eyes were turned, in the flaring oil torches of sudden ligth- ing, upon the uplifted face of the princess of the house of Terah. She stood with both arms extended and lifted above her head, her face as colorless as alabaster walls of the palace chamber under the tissues of her veil. Her eyes gleamed like stars, and she was the incarnation of unearthly inspiration. Some of the — A PRINCE OF UR. . 395 dancing girls who had crowded into the hall, shrank in grave fear before the fierce gleam of her eyes, and the piercing tones of her high-pitched voice. But Nimrod lowered his scepter before her and his face lighted with renewed hope and courage. This was the very tonic he needed. As the instant pause was made, there issued from some inner — courtyard the crude spitting and yowling of a score of cats and instantly there was another scene of confusion. Two death omens in one night was unbearable to these superstitious Chal- deans. But in the midst of it all the voice of the girl rang out like the clarion call of a soul seated on the heights of human courage, gazing with unholy awe upon the decrees writ in the spirit world. "Fear not, O Nimrod. I am Ishtar of Arbella. Where are the words which I spake unto thee? Thine enemies, the Urkians, do I give unto thee. I am Ishtar of Arbella. In front of thee and at thy side do I go, I march. Fear not, thou art in the midst of these that can heal thee and guard thee. I shall be in the midst of thine host. I advance, I stand still. This is the torture of thine enemies which thou hast heard presaged before thee this night." Her words acted like some strong stimulant to the jaded monarch's courage. Some long-forgotten remembrance of the true prophetic gifts of the house of Shem entered into his soul and he felt that there must be some truth in what the girl was crying. — He would be all man all king. These sorceries and witchcrafts were all-sufificient to his blind and cruel followers they were the leash with which he held them down. But for him- self— was he not a high priest after the order of the Divine One? Did he not possess the royal garments and the robe of the priest- hood which his father Cush had given him after it was stolen from Noah by Ham in the ark? He would have done with child- ish fears. And he would command the forces of nature by right of his inherited priesthood. He would put on the robes of his priesthood. "What ho— begin thy labors. Nimrod will prepare at once for the sacrifices of Ishtar." "Spoken like a king and a high priest." cried Iscah boldly. She loved courage in man as she loved her own vanity. And to- gether,Nimrod and his newly chosen queen hurried to their chamber to prepare for the midnight ceremony. (to be continued.)