the General Board, and suggest your careful survey of these in- — nocent and beautiful faces which baby belongs to which grand- mother? 364 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. We present herewith the views of five members of the quo- rnm of the Twelve apostles, and ask that our Relief Society offi- cers shall read these stirring and splendid comments in the various meeting-s of our Society. ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON: In my opinion the practice of restricting the number of chil- dren in the family, as advocated by many people, is sinful. It is contrary to the first great commandment given to Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, when the Lord said to them, "Be fruitful, multiply, and replenish the earth," etc. Woman is so constituted that, ordinarily, she is capable of bearing, during the years of her greatest strength and physical vigor, from eight to ten children, and in exceptional cases a larger number than that. The law of her nature so ordered it, and God's command, while it did not specify the exact number of children allotted to woman, simply implied that she should ex- ercise the sacred power of procreation to its utmost limit. Restricting the family to one or two children, as is often done in the world at large,^m,ore especially among the rich who have — ample means to support large families is a serious evil even to them. It may, and frequently does, lead to grievous disappoint- ment in after life, where death has stepped in and claimed the children as its victims before they reached maturity. Thus the parents are left without the ministrations of loved ones to smooth their pathway down to the grave. The hope of posterity is cut ofif, and their names disappear from among men. Those who resort to restrictive measures, respecting the number of children in the family, except it be by non-association of husband and wife, trifle with the fountains of life, and will certainly invite the dis- pleasure and righteous anger of an offended Creator, who gave to man and woman this God-li