A Priceless Golden Wedding. Few women are so privileged as to celebrate a golden wed- ding, and fewer women have been blessed upon this earth to cele- brate such a golden wedding as was enjoyed by our beloved and honored Counselor, Julina L. Smith, on Alay 5, 1916. To be the wife of one of the greatest men that ever lived upon this earth, the liiother of eleven of his children who are all lovely and notable characters, with thirty-eight grand children to be surrounded by; all of these dear ones and by a host of affectionate and loyal friends —this is indeed a blessing accorded to few mortal women. President Joseph F. Smith and his noble wife, Julina L. Smith, received a few of their vast army of friends on this happy occasion in the Bee-Hive House. President Smith was his usual princely and handsome self. Sister Smith wore a golden wedding gown of white satin, beautifully made by one of our own sisters and modestly decorated with laces and flowers. She was not handsomer on her wedding day than she was on this happy occa- sion. The house was decorated in a profusion of flowers and the favorite Hawaiian band discoursed music for the entertainment of the guests. Heaven will not hold a more precious and beautiful tribute than was offered to this favored woman by her husband, her children, the General Board of the Relief Society of which she is one of the Presidency, and the many friends, who sent up a prayer in behalf of the happy couple that years may be added to this honored father and mother in Israel. Answering our request Mrs. Smith writes The editors of the Relief Society Magazine have called upon me for a sketch of my life, feeling that the people should be some- what acquainted with those who stand at the head of the great Relief Society work, and direct its affairs. It gives me much pleasure to comply with this request, inasmuch as I have been a member of the Relief Society ever since I was eighteen years of age, and a member of the General Board since the Relief Society was incorporated in 1894. I was born in Salt Lake City, June 18, 1849, both my par- ents having helped to pioneer the way to Utah, in the year 1847. My father, Alfred B. Lamson was an excellent mechanic and blacksmith which enabled him to render services of great valye to those who crossed the plains, in those early days, and especially to the people after they reached the valley. In early days, his home was one of the best, and was the first house erected in the 
 slate of Utah which was finished on the interior with plastered walls. My mother, Melissa Jane Bigler Lambson, was the young- est sister of our late beloved President of the Relief Society, Bath- sheba W. Smith. May 5, 1866, I married Joseph F. Smith, who, at that time, was laboring as a clerk, assisting my uncle, George A. Smith, in the Historian's office. Our first baby, Mercy Josephine, was born in 1867, and in 1868, with my full consent, my husband married Sarah Ellen Rich- ards, a daughter of President Willard Richards, who was one year younger than I. We started our married lives together, mere girls, and for forty-seven years were companions. In 1869, a daughter was born to Sarah, but our Heavenly Father saw fit to leave her with us for only a few days. When my second baby was only eight months' old the angel of death again visited us bearing away our first-born, our little chatter-box, the delight of our home. On the first of January, 1870, with the consent of both Sarah and myself, Joseph married my sister, Edna, and later married Alice, daughter of President Heber C. Kimball and Mary, niece of President John Taylor. As our family increased in size, additions were made to the two original rooms of our dwelling, until, in time, the roof cov- ered ninefeen rooms which formed three apartments and housed a family of tenty-one. After we had our separate apartments, and later separate rooms, we continued to have all things in common. Aunt Sarah was particularly skilful with the needle, and we often exchanged work with benefits to all, especially when our children were little. In case of sickness all else was neglected, if necessary, while we nursed and watched alternately. In times of death we mourned equally, and in time of health we rejoiced and worked shoulder to shoulder with our husband. When the mother of three children, I studied obstetrics and nursing under the best physicians then in Utah, and the knowl- edge acquired has been of great service not only in our own family but in hundreds of cases where I have responded to calls from expectant mothers. It has always been a joy to me to place a tiny one for the first time in its mother's arms, for then I felt again the thrills that I have felt in looking into the baby faces of my own. My first three children were daughters, and no mother ever loved her babies more than I did mine, but as most mothers do, I desired a son. I prayed that I might have a son, if I was thought Worthy to raise one to walk in his father's footsteps and be true to the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Otherwise I would be satisfied with daughters, for children I must have. A PRICELESS GOLDEN WEDDING. 371 Sarah was the mother of two daughters and a son, and Edna had two sons before my prayers were answered, but in my first son, Joseph F. Smith, Junior, as in my second, third and fourth, my prayers were fully answered for they have been all a mother could ask for. I have given birth to eleven children and have adopted two. Sarah is the mother of eleven and Edna ten, with all of whom I share a mother's interest, for I have watched over and helped to care for them since they drew their first breath. And in fact they all seem to be a part of me. The old home no longer shelters us, for as birdlings leave the parent nest and build their own, so our babies have become full- fledged, and many of them, with their mates, have flown away. Leonora, (Mrs. Joseph Nelson) ^'resident Smith's oldest child then living, and the daughter of Sarah, was the first to leave our home and go to a home of her own, and to her were given three sons and a daughter before a grandchild came to me. To my sister, Edna, came the next grandchild, through her son, Hyrum. My first grandchild, David J. Smith, was born on Sunday, November 10, 1901, the day and hour his grandfather was sus- tained as the President of the Church. Since then we have rapidly increased in number, for today I have thirty-eight grand- children; Sarah eighteen and Edna fifteen. Edward A. Smith, my adopted son who is now deceased, was the father of eight children. Because of their scattered condition I have not a rec- ord of his grandchildren. The scenes have changed many times during the past fifty years. For two years I was on the Hawaiian Islands while my husband was in exile for the gospel's sake. During this time I had with me two of my children, and it was while here that my fourth son was born. My other children were left in the care of Sarah and Edna. For a number of years our families were scattered and, to obey the laws of the land, changes were made in our family customs, which grieved us all. Now only on special occasions can we meet together as we did formerly, for we have grown so numerous and become so scattered. Many roofs now shelter those who used to dwell T3eneath the same roof and many walls surround the laughter of children's voices. Still, in my memory, live those happy days, and I can see as a moving picture the familiar games being played, the races run after the pears when the wind blew hard, the thumping for the ripe watermelons, the shelling of peas and the stringing of beans brought in from the garden. The climbing of the giant locust tree for the birds' nests, with the patching trousers that followed the harnessing of the; old horse ready for a drive or perhaps the bustling ofT to school after the morning prayers and breakfast and, as the night comes; A PRICELESS GOLDEN WEDDING. ?>7i on the tired bo3^s and,^irls. Again I see the father as he goes from room to room and bed to bed to see that everyone is tucked in for the night. Such memories as these come back when I think of the old home. After the.old home had grown too large and we had decided to rent it, President Smith wanted to go back, but I answered if 1 could go back with papa and mamas' children all there I would not hesitate, but to go to an empty house, never. And this reminds me of an answer to a letter I wrote to Hyrum, who is presiding over the European Mission, telling him how the old place looked, and how it made me feel, and I will here quote a few lines from his wife's letter to me: "Dear Aunt Julina: Your most welcome and most ap- preciated letter ofMay 12 was duly received. The children had just gone to school, so Hyrum and I sat down quietly to read and enjoy the news of our beloved ones at home. Then I read this part of your letter: 'After a good cleaning the place looked so nice that it almost made me homesick. I saw the little chil- dren playing in my big room, the one they used to make their playground, and the one they were never sent out of.' I looked up at Hyrum and the big tears were rolling down his face and he said, "That is true. I never remember being sent out of that room by Aunt Julina, in my life, and they were very happy days. Papa and our three mammas worked hard in those days, and each one did his share, and love and unity prevailed. Then he went on and told about the great quantity of fruit that was grown in the orchard, and how all the children that were large enough used to gather and prepare this fruit for drying, and then he related many other reminiscences and wound up by saying. 'Indeed, they " were happy days.' And so the years pass on, and to our children no doubt mem- ories of their lives will be as sweet as mine are today to me. On the 5th of May we celebrated my fiftieth wedding anni- versary, and that evening we all met together with many of our friends. The following day. President Smith's grandchildren gathered at the Bee-Hive. A photograph was taken of my im- mediate family which is produced herewith. On the same day a moving picture was taken of President Smith and his grand- children, which can be filed away for their enjoyment in future years. On the same day, President Smith's oldest grandson, Joseph Smith Nelson, was ordained an elder preparatory to a mission. Such, in brief, is the recital of a busy and happy life lived in the midst of a modern patriarchal family. "