Current Topics. James H. Anderson. The Telephone controversy in Salt Lake County took an unusual course — went in favor of the customers. it Preparedness for war has swung to the other limit of the pendulum from the ultra peace propaganda of two years ago in the United States. The Filipinos will not be independent of the United States for some time to come, the bill for granting independence to the Philippines having failed in Congress. Eqltal Suffragists are making great headway in national lines. The immediate future may not record complete success, but a victorious conclusion is drawing rapidly near. U. S. Ambassador Gerard, at Berlin, says peace is on the way. As yet he has failed to furnish a time-schedule for its journey. The Norway Fish-catch for 1916 has been purchased by Great Britain, thus forming another link in the starvation block- ade against Germany. High Taxes add to the high cost of living in Utah this year, and many are the protests that go up to the boards of equalization in every county of the State and the end is not yet. ; Bulgarian Troops have entered Greece, and there has been fighting with the British and French troops. Constantine's king- dom is thus getting a taste of war, even though he will not fight. Three Eggs a Week and no meat for certain periods in Ger- many is a government regulation there which indicates anything but a well-fed people —but it is war. Italy has met with a severe military defeat at the hands of Austrian troops, thereby losing advantages heretofore gained by almost a year of hard fighting. \\'.\K and rumors of war still mark the ascending scale, the 
 latest threatened field being South America, where three new rev- clrtions have broken out during the past month. Jesse Gesas, the Salt Lake automobilist who ran his car into and killed two young people who had just alighted from a street- car, has been convicted of involuntary manslaughter. This action by the courts may prove a salutary lesson to automobile "speed- ers." Air Raids in the European war zone do not seem to diminish in frequency, notwithstanding the fact that the number of aerial warriors to be brought down is increasing with considerable ra- pidity. Gasoline is so scarce in Germany owing to war needs that U. S. Ambassador Gerard has had to ^ive up his automobile trips in Berlin. The experience may keep him among the peace advo- cates for this country. At Verdun, France, the German assault has lasted for more than 100 days, with little gain in territory, and the loss of nearly -400,000 men the French lines holding with considerable firmness, ; and losses about two-thirds those of the Germans. Berlin says it does not want President Wilson as a peace- maker in Europe. But, then, the kaiser need not fear any offer of the President's services —these may be enforced by a sterner hand when the game is finally called. Amalgamation of the interurban electric lines running from Payson, Utah, to Preston, Idaho, a distance of over 200 miles, is being sought by the management of the now three distinct com- panies. This would make of all the line an inter-state railway. Community Cooking has been adopted in some parts of Germany as a means of conserving the food supply and as afford- ing opportunity for its equitable distribution. At any rate, all should get the same quality of food. Another Beet Sugar Factory for Utah. This one is to be erected on the west side of Cache Valley, arrangements therefor having been definitely made. Which means thousands of dollars' increase to our Utah farmers. Wire-tapping of the telephone system in New York has re- sulted in the indictment there of the mayor and a police commis- ; CURRENT TOPICS. 401 sioner. It is held that such a theft of information is not made justifiable by reason of the "tappers" holding public office. Louis D. Brandeis has been confirmed as justice of the — United States Supreme Court the only instance in American his- tory where a person against whom such accusations were made has received the approving vote of a majority of the Senate. Venustiano Carranza, whom President Wilson's Mexican policy aided materially in placing at the head of our southern neighbor's national affairs, has turned on the hand that befriended him, and the outlook for relations between this country and Mex- ico seems darker than at any time during the past three years. Indian War Veterans in Utah are given another concession in the way of government pensions. Congressman Joseph Howell has worked persistently for this for twelve years past, and has won his contention against great odds. When the bill had passed the House, the two Utah Senators were not slow in getting it through the Senate. Another Mexican Raid into United States territory oc- curred on May 6, and the raiders were pursued across the line by American troops, who killed or captured many of the bandits. Foreign Minister Aguilar of Mexico announced that the raid — was organized in the United States- a specimen of Mexican offi- cial prevarication which is becoming frequent. An Anti-prohibition campaign in Utah has been inaugu- rated by certain interests represented by Robert W. Brown of Cleveland, O., and some Utah politicians not in harmony with the temperance sentiment now generally prevalent in this part of the country. "Business clubs" are being organized to fight prohibi- tion. But the people are wise to this subterfuge. Great Britain has advised all its representatives in the United States to observe carefully the laws of this country. This counsel was given before there were any prosecutions of British representatives for violating those laws. Germany has given sim- ilar advice, but not until a number of Germans had been indicted and one of the indicted Teutons, Captain Boy-Ed. was specially honored by the kaiser when he left this country because of un- neutral conduct.