Plain Gossip. By Mrs. Grundy. "1 don't know what I'm going to do,' I says to Car'line, as me and her was rockin' on her front porch. "I am plain crazy over my Ted." "What's the matter with Ted?" she sez. "Hain't yoii seen him with one o' them cigerits in his mouth, sknlkin' behind your barn?" "No I ain't," she says, "and if I did I wouldn't be 'tal sur- prised." "What d' you mean Car'line?" says I. 'I mean jist what I sed," says she, "I wouldn't be one mite surprised to see your boys smokin' cigerits nor your man drinkin' beer." "Here, Car'line, what's come over you to talk like that? What's me and my family done to you that you make sech a crack as that for, at us?" — "Nothin' to me Marthy, it's what you're doin' to yourself and your family." At that I jist bridled and sassed back. "Well, Car'line, I come to talk things over a little and not to git insulted right on your own porch." And I ris' right up and started home. "Keep your jacket on, Marthy," says she, "and sit right down. I have been waitin for years for this yere chance to speak my mind to you, and I am goin' to do it right now." I guess my cheeks was burnin' and I took purty mad, so Car'Hne caught hold of my hand and says: "Now, Marthy, you have gotcbrisid'able sense in your head, in spite of the fact that you weigh 180 pounds without your shoes. You jist set right down and listen to your best friend and take your medicine. I ain't seen your boy smokin' cigerits nor your man drinkin' beer, but I jist wondered and wondered and won- dered how in the name of common sense you can drink cofifee for breakfast and tea for dinner, day after day, and day after day, and expect your folks to have more sense 'en you've got. I should think that coffee'd choke you every time you take a mouth- ful. You bein' Ted's mother, and the Lord expectin' you to set an example to him, makes it a heap sight worse for you to drink cofifee and tea than it would if you was an old maid. They're talking a whole lot 'bout gettin' prohibition, and you jest better believe I am goin' to work to get it, hard as I know how. but it clean beats me to see anyone professin' to be a 'Mormon' fightin' ; PLAIN GOSSIP. 403 for prohibition when they pour tea and coffee down their throats all the time." "Land o' mercy," I says, then, "do you think coffee is as bad as tobacco?" "I certainly think it breaks the Word of Wisdom, jist as bad 'en when a mother 'lows herself to set sech bad examples for her children, how can she expect them to be stronger and wiser 'en she is? Mind you, I never expect to clean out all the ba 1 men out of this yere state when we git prohibition, but I certainly do expect the women who belong to this yere Relief Society 'ill have sense enough and religion enough to start the thing right by quitting all their tea and coffee. That is the kind o' prohibition talk I am goin' to talk," she says, says she. "And what about all this chocolate candy the girls make now days and stuff by the pound?" says I. "Purty nigh as bad," says she. "Our girls git a cocaine jag on them every time they git outside o' a pound box of choco- late candy." "I thought these doctors tell," I sez, "that a little home-made candy's all right," I sez. "A little maybe," she flares back, "maybe it is— two pieces, not two pounds!" "There's one sentence in the Word of Wisdom that mighty few people read, that all good things of the earth are for man, but are to be 'used with prudence.' Prudence, that's the word.. There's scurc'ly a man or woman in this Churc hbut what eats for' the pleasure of it, and not for the prudence of it." "Yes," I says, "I guess we ought not to eat meat, if we keep the Word of Wisdom." "Now, Marthy," she says, says she, "you go home and read your Doctrine and Covenants and you will find it told plain there that he that sayeth not to eat meat the same is not of God. All things is ordained for man to be used with prudence." "Even tea and coffee," I says. "No," she says, says she. "They might be a good medicine, but nobody ever keeps 'em strictly for medicine; they jist drink it cause it tastes good, that's all and 'cause it feels good, and the selfish,disobedient motive which makes you drink tea and coffee is the very same motive which makes Ted smoke his cigerit. They's stimulants in whiskey, tobacco, tea and coffee, and they's all included in the 'Mormon' prohibition," she says. "You jist go home, Marthy, and think over this tea and coffee proposition. T want you to help me get prohibition this fall and you can't start out to tell other folks to keep the Word of Wisdom when you break it yourself."