OBITUARY.

	DIED AT East Mill Creek, Sept. 2nd, 1878, of
consumption, Lilian Edna, youngest daughter
of John and Ann E. Neff, aged one year, five
months and eleven days.

	"There is no flock however well attended,
	But one dead Lamb is there."

	To those who mourn let me say, that time
will accustom you to Lilian's absence, you will
never forget her, you need not shut her from
your thoughts, but you will find other duties
supplying the place of those you once owed to
her. I know it may seem cold and unnatural
but our Father has placed us here to find our
happiness in blessing those around us, and if
he takes any of the dear objects away, he sig-
nifies by the act that our duties to these are
finished. Oh we have a priceless faith! We
lay our loved ones in the arms of God and feel
in the depths of our soul that all is well with
them. We know that we shall soon meet them
again. never to part. Were Lilian absent from
her mother here upon earth, she would have
constant fears that some ill might betide her,
but now she knows that evil can never touch
her immortal one.—W. C. L.

	WE HAVE to record the demise of another
faithful Sister Christina N. Miller, who died of
heart disease at her residence Sept. 7th in this
city. Deceased was born in Franklin Co.
Pennsylvania March 18th, 1818; emigrated to
Utah in the hand cart company Aug. 1860, and
reached the city in good health and spirits;
she was devoted to her religion, and ever re-
joiced in its principles; and was true and faith-
ful to the same. President Angus M. Cannon
preached a most edifying and consoling dis-
course at her funeral, applicable and comfort-
ing to all that heard it. He spoke of visiting
her in her home in Pennsylvania, and of her
kindness and hospitality to the Elders when-
ever they visited her. With her they ever
found "a quiet and peaceful home" "that she
died in the Lord and her works will follow
her." There was a large assembly of friends
to pay their last respects, and a long line o
carriages filled with the same followed the
hearse to the cemetery. Pres. A. M. Cannon,
the Bishop, and other prominent men in au-
thority attended. Pres. Cannon made a few
appropriate and closing remarks.—"Let me die
the death of the righteous." Amen.
							H. T. K.


