R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Aug. 31, was one long to be re-
membered. Pres. M. I. Horne, after the
opening exercises and reading of minutes,
addressed the sisters, relating incidental
parts of her visit to the northern settle-
ments. She said the meetings had been
largely attended, and the brethren left
their harvest fields to come and hear the
sisters talk; there are many enegetic and
earnest sisters in the country places, desir-
ous of working in unison with the sisters
in Salt Lake in helping to store up grain,
promote home industries and all good
works.
	Coun. E. R. Snow followed, dwelling
more largely upon the organization of Pri-
mary Associations, and the great field of
work open for those who will move in this
matter; that in training the little ones,
teaching them true and correct principle,
we form characters for the Saints of God.
Blessed the sisters for their energy, said
she was proud of those who were taking
hold in earnest to help build up God's king-
dom. 
	Coun. Zina D. Young spoke upon home-
manufacture, and urged the sisters to do all
in their power to promote and sustain it:
felt that we were all capable of sowing
good seed in the hearts of those we meet
from time to time, if we would do so.
	Coun. P. Woodruff said we were privi-
leged in many respects above those in the
country, and should appreciate it. Spoke
upon diligence and faithfulness, and also
upon the importance of little things, usually
considered trifles.
	Mrs. S. M. Heywood’s remarks were
mostly upon the children, the movement
now in contemplation, which she believed
would result in good; felt that fathers as
well as mothers should be interested in this
matter.
	Mrs. E. A. Whitney then made some
good remarks, alluding to the prophecies
of the brethren in the early days of the
Church, and their fulfillment, which in
many instances had been literally verified
in our day. After closing her remarks, she
sang “A song of Zion,” which had a most
inspiring effect upon the entire audience.
	Coun. E. Howard referred to Sister Whit-
ney’s address as delightful, and recognized
through hearing it the need of a Saint of
God being humble and meek, for it was
such God would exalt. She thought those
who would take an interest in teaching and
instructing the children in these Primary
Associations would be greatly blessed.
	Coun. S. M. Kimball, after adding her
testimony to that of the other sisters in re-
gard to her interest in helping to educate
the little ones, morally and spiritually, in
the Primary Associations, and getting the
co-operation of the parents, said she wished
to mention the condition of Sister Whit-
ney. “Her days are almost numbered,
and it seemed as if a part of herself went
out in blessing us this afternoon, and I
asked myself if there was a reciprocity of
blessings for Sister Whitney. I think
there should be, and I feel to say God bless
Sister Whitney, comfort and cheer her
heart; may her pathway be made smooth,
and may honor and blessings be multiplied
on her head forever.” By request of Pres.
Horne, all the sisters present then rose to
their feet, Sister Kimball repeated the
blessings, and the whole congregation con-
firmed it by a hearty Amen.
	Coun. B. W. Smith said she felt the power
of the blessing of the sisters, and exhorted

[Column 2]
the sisters to prepare themselves for the
great day of the Lord’s coming.
	Pres. Horne made a few suitable closing
remarks.

	RICHMOND, Aug. 27th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	We had a general time of rejoicing when
our worthy Sisters E. R. Snow and E. Davis
paid us a visit. They held two meetings
one in the afternoon for the Relief Society,
and in the evening for the Y. L. M. I. As-
sociation. They handed out to us many
choice instructions for our good. I trust
we may treasure them up in honest hearts;
we cannot help saying God bless and pros-
per thine handmaidens “oh Lord who
seek to do good all the day long.” Our an-
nual report was made on the 4th of June;
there was satisfaction among the sisters in
regard to it, although there had not been a
great deal accomplished; circumstances
known to the society accounted for the lit-
tle done. We have sought to do good in
our humble way, we have striven to do
what we have been called on to do, and
such is still our desire, and we ever pray
God to help us, and we desire the good will
of those whom the Lord has appointed to
lead us and all Israel. Notwithstanding
the storms of wind and rain we have a good
harvest; and our brethren are busy in the
field, and at the threshing machine. The
grasshoppers are not unmindful of us, and
are having a long visit. Quite a number
of young children have been laid away
this summer which has caused deep sor-
row in the hearts of their parents. “But
the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away
blessed be the name of the Lord.” We
are now having some delightful weather.
	I will now say good-bye as I fear to
weary you. Your excellent paper is very
welcome, and the good sisters of Richmond
desire to be remembered to the editor.
	Yours in the Gospel of Christ,
	ABIGAIL POND, President,
