HOME AFFAIRS.

	QUARTERLY MEETING: The sisters should
remember that the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake will be held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday Sept. 21. There will be two sessions,
commencing at 10 o'clock a. m., and 2 o'clock
p.m. Presidents and officers of the various
branches of Relief Society in Salt Lake Co.
and all interested in the work are solicited to
attend. Secretaries should send in their re-
ports previous to the time of holding the meet-
ing that the Secretary may review and proper-
ly arrange them. Reports may be sent to this
office, and this arrangement will be perhaps the
most practicable. As there is some necessary


[Column 1]
business to be transacted by the officers of Re-
lief Society it is hoped all that can will make
a point of being present to take part in its
transaction. If the Secretaries will refer to
the instructions given at the last R. S. Confer-
ence in this city and published in WOMAN'S
EXPONENT of July 1, it may help them in
making up reports. They cannot be too care-
ful and particular, but it should be done in or-
der.
	WE HAVE received with the Sept. 5 No. of
the "New North West" an interesting and
ably edited woman's paper, published in Port-
land, Oregon, by Mrs. A. J. Duniway, a sup-
plement to the Portland Bee containing the
speech of Senator Mitchell, delivered by invi-
tation of the leading citizens of Portland at
New Market Theatre in that city, on Saturday
evening Aug. 31.
	MRS. Dr. Ferguson begs to announce that on
Monday, September 16th, she will open a SE-
LECT MORNING CLASS for LADIES, for
instruction in the higher branches of a compre-
hensive English education. Recitations every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning,
from 9 to 12 30. The Evening Class in Elocu-
tion and Dramatic Reading, for Ladies and
Gentlemen, will meet on Wednesday and Sat-
urday. Classes in vocal and Instrumental
Music, French and Drawing, as last winter.
For terms apply to Dr. E. B. Ferguson, First
East Street.
	THE LADIES Relief Association for gather-
ing means for the Yellow Fever sufferers held
a meeting and formed Committees to visit the
different parts of the city and solicit donations
for that noble and benevolent purpose.
Among the active and efficient workers are
Mrs. Oliver Durant, Mrs. G. M. Anderson,
Mrs. Joseph Morrell, Miss Helen Golinski,
Mrs. A. J. Patterson and Miss Jote Spencer.
Altogether they have collected up to the pres-
ent time, Sept. 13, $925 which will be forward-
ed to the suffering South. The Hebrew ladies
have also raised some funds. There has been
one performance at the Theatre, Base Ball
Games played, lectures given and other enter-
tainments to accumulate means for this lauda-
ble purpose, and in this way quite a large sum
of money has been raised and the work still
goes on.
	THERE WILL be a Territorial Fair held in
Salt Lake City under the auspices of the D.
A. and M. Society, in which the ladies are so-
licited to take part. The following ladies have
been appointed a committee to take charge of
the department of woman's work. Mrs Pris-
cilla M. Staines, Mrs. Sarepta M. Heywood,
Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs. Abba Rumell,
Mrs. Ann Dewey. The ladies of the Relief
Societies are solicited to contribute silk and
other goods which are manufactured by them,
also all kinds of fancy articles, ornamental
needlework, hair-work, drawing, painting, or
any of these classes of work, as well as domes-
tic manufactures of all kinds. The ladies of
the Territory should take pains to aid in mak-
ing this Territorial Fair the best that has ever
been held, and will thus be conferring a public
good by contributing to encourage home pro-
ductions and home-talent. The Fair will com-
mence Oct. 2d, in the City Market.
	THE ENTERTAINMENT given by the Azelea
Literary Association in the Social Hall on
Monday evening Sept. 9, for the benefit of the
Yellow Fever Sufferers was a financial success;
the proceeds, we are told, amounting to $130.
The first part of the programme consisted of
songs and select reading, recitations, most of

[Column 2]
them exceedingly well rendered for amateurs,
and an essay by Miss Josephine Spencer, on
the subject for which the entertainment had
been given, which did her great credit. The
comic play of "Toodles" constituted the last
part of the evening's entertainment and we
can but deprecate the selection of a play that
portrays the drunkard without any object of
moralizing but simply to be funny. It seems
to us that every person who desires to see a
better state of society and correct principles
promulgated among the young should discoun-
tenance the imitations of drunkenness upon
the stage, unless there is good to be effected
through the moral it presents.
	WE HAD a pleasant interview with Mrs
E. Hardacre who came here as a correspond-
ent in the interest of the "New York Herald."
We had been informed previously that Mrs.
H. was coming to write sensational letters
about Mormon Women, something in the
style of a former correspondent who paid Salt
Lake a visit of some weeks last year. Mrs. H.
is a lady of exceedingly pleasant manners, an
intelligent face and sympathetic eyes. She is
attractive in conversation, and is no doubt a
clever writer, as she seems to possess the nec-
essary requisites. Her stay in this city was
limited and she has gone on to California, but
will return here again after a short tour through
portions of that state, and spend a week or ten
days in this vicinity making notes of observa-
tion and writing for the N. Y. Herald from
here. Mrs. H. expects to make some sketches
of the ruins and curiosities of Southern Califor-
nia, and also write an article upon them for
Scribner's Monthly, to which she is already a
contributor. What opinions she may form
concerning Mormon Women, remains to be
known through her articles. She seemed anx-
ious to hear of the travels and hardships of the
early settlers here, and her eyes filled with
tears when she contemplated the sufferings en-
dured by these heroic women; and she remark-
ed "if trials, persecutions, hardships and cruci-
fixions will entitle people to salvation, then
your people have certainly earned it." She
marveled as many others have at the wonder-
ful work which had been done in settling the
Desert.


