UTAH COUNTY SILK MEETING.

	Meeting of the Utah Co. Branch Silk Asso-
ciation held at Elder Daniel Grave's Park Gar-
dens, Provo, Aug. 30th; meeting called to order
by Prest. Mary Hindley. Opened by singing
and prayer. Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted. Elder Graves stated the
object of the meeting to consult about the best
method of obtaining means to carry on the
silk enterprise. Gave an account of an inter-
view he had with a brother with a view to
purchasing a reel and other machinery for the
working up of the silk. Recommended the
brethren to encourage the sisters by their faith
and means, that they may be enabled to carry
on the business effectually. It is necessary that
the Association have means to buy up the co-
coons, so that the sisters may not get discour-
aged but keep on trying to raise a little silk.
Motioned that each ward get up a petition to
their City Fathers and ask them to present it
to the County Court.
	Pres't. Hindley spoke of several items of in-
terest to the members of the Association, and
regretted the disadvantage of having no means
to buy up the cocoons.
	An amendment to the motion was made by
Mrs. J. Durrant, to the effect that a committee
of three be formed in each ward, one of the


R. S., and two of the Y. L. M. I. A. to raise
a fund by subscription to buy up the cocoons,
and purchase the necessary machinery etc.,
which was carried unanimously.
	Mrs. Crompton of American Fork reported
30 lbs. cocoons and 4 oz. of eggs raised there
this season.
	D. Graves stated that there had been 3000
mulberry trees planted out this season in Utah
County. Also reported 50 lbs. of cocoons rais-
ed in Provo this season, and exhibited speci-
mens of spun silk prepared for the loom. Mrs
Wooley of Pleasant Grove reported 17 lbs. co-
coons and 5 oz. eggs raised in that settlement.
	Mrs. Hardy of Payson reported 5 lbs. co-
coons and silk-worm eggs to the value of six
dollars, also one and a half lbs. of silk reeled
ready for the loom.
	Mrs. E. D. Clarke motioned that a report of
the Commitees' be sent to Pres't. Hindley be-
fore the end of Sep. Carried.
	Meeting adjourned until Oct. next.
				MRS. M. HINDLEY, Pres't.
