GEORGE ELIOT.

	Mrs. Marlon Lewis (George Eliot) is thus
described by a correspondent: “My hand
was held for a moment by a lady in the
plainest possible attire. Somewhat to my
surprise, I found her intensely feminine.
Her slight figure—it might almost be called
diminutive—her gentle, persuasive air,
her constrained gesticulation, the low, sweet
voice—all were as far removed from the
repulsive phenomenon, the “man-woman,”
as it is possible to conceive. The brow
alone seemed to betray her intellectual su-
periority; her face reminded me somewhat
of the portrait of Charlotte Bronte, that
every one is familiar with. Yet there was
no striking similarity; I should rather say
the types of head and face are the same.
When she crossed the room to call atten-
tion to a volume under discussion she
seemed almost like an invalid, and evinced
also an invalid’s indifference to fashion and
frivolity in dress. Perhaps it is half true,
the strange story that I heard in all its va-
riations, for there were those present who
sat transfixed and gazed rapturously upon
the creator of “Romola” and “Adam
Bede.” Every syllable she uttered sank
deep into fertile hearts. I can speak for
the homely home that seemed almost bare,
and for the homely hospitality, than which
nothing can be less pretentious. I shall
never forget the absolute repose of Mrs.
Lowes, the deliberation with which she
discussed the affairs of life, speaking al-
ways as if she were revealing only about a
tenth part of her knowledge upon the sub-
ject in question. With her it seemed as if
the tides had all come in; as if she had
weathered the ultimate storm; as if cir-
cumstance and not desire had swept her
apart from her kind, and left her isolated,
the unrivaled mistress of a passionless ex-
perience.—“Woman’s Words.”


GRATITUDE is a blossom of rare sweet-
ness, its fragrance is ever refreshing, in
this world of careless indifference; it should
be nourished, for it is one of the genuine
growths of a divine nature. Yet we see
much more of the counterfeit than the re-
ality, and it is hard to detect the real from
the unreal, unless we ourselves possess the
true germ.—Emile.


MISS HELEN M. Taylor, widely and popu-
larly known as a strong advocate and firm
supporter of woman suffrage in England,
has been nominated for a member of Par-
liament from Southwark district, London.
Earl Beaconsfield is said to be in sympathy
with the measure. It is thought this will
be a practical test of the strength of the
movement in favor of woman suffrage.


