EDITOR EXPONENT:

	*	*	*	There is nothing affords me
more pleasure than to know that it is a
privilege of mine to mingle my name with
the Saints of God, through the columns of
your most enterprising and well-influenced
paper.
	Our Conference came off on the 10th,
11th, and 12th. The Saints all attended
that could; it was well attended in general
by both Saints and Sectarians, and a good
spirit prevailed. We feel to thank God for
the privilege of living in this day and age
of the world, and for the privilege of hear-
ing the Gospel, also of receiving the same.
	You can't realize for even one moment
the great pleasure that it is to us to have
the honor of being numbered with the
people of God, and we are all looking for-
ward to the day when we can gather out
from wicked Babylon, and dwell with the
Saints in Zion, where we can render assist-
ance to those who are striving to build up
the kingdom of God upon the earth; we
can readily realize the great work that you
are all engaged in, and as soon as our Heav-
enly Father sees fit to open up the way for
us to gather with you in Zion, we will be
up and alive to our duty, with a readiness
of mind in helping to accomplish the great
work that is now being established for the
last time upon the earth, we feel that there
is a great work enjoined upon us to do, and
we will hail the day with unspeakable joy
when we can begin our part of it.
	We have had some very great delusions
to contend with during the absence of the
Elders last winter; we had one who had
turned from the truth to contend with,
who caused considerable strife and confu-
sion among the Saints, but we can now
look back and see the result; he came to
work against us, but to the contrary it was
for us and to his disappointment.
	The Saints here are all enjoying good
health and are getting along very well.
We have a Sabbath School in our Branch;
one Testament class, one Catechism class
and some smaller classes. I will write to
you again just as soon as I hear from the
different branches of the Church. I will
close by asking you to remember me in
your prayers. Your sister in the Gospel of
Christ,				JOAN MANNING.


