EDITOR EXPONEMT:

	Two late copies of the EXPONENT have
just come to hand, the first I have seen
since leaving home in April last. The ar-
ticles on storing grain which they contain
thrilled me as I read them, and I have felt
irresistibly impelled to write a few words
in encouragement of the work, and I am
persuaded that the language which I can
best use for this purpose will be that which
is descriptive of the present actual condi-
tion of thousands of families in this State.
	I have recently traveled through the
coal regions, and had occasion, in the course
of my genealogical labors, to make the ac-
quaintance of many individuals in differ-

[Column 2]
ent stations in life. The universal cry is
unprecedentedly hard times. Those who
have money are taking the best of care of
it, and confidence in new enterprises
scarcely exists. The coal mines are now
averaging, as nearly as I could learn, and I
made special inquiries, about one-third the
wages per diem. that they received before
the panic, and do not average working more
than half as many days in a month as they
did then. Thus there are thousands of
families in the coal regions of this State
who are now subsisting on about one-sixth
the income they had before the panic!
True, they made high wages then, but with
rare exceptions coal miners are a very im-
provident class, who never lay up for a 
rainy day, and the late tremendous reduc-
tions in wages has entailed great suffering
upon them. In many towns in Luzerne
County that I visited, I was informed that
hundreds of families were dependent
wholly, or in part, on charity for food, and
that often all they had to eat was bread or
potatoes. Probably the worst feature of
the matter is the discouraging outlook,
which, instead of promising better times
forebodes worse. Rumors of threatened
communistic uprisings have been rife ever
since I reached the State, and it is not im-
probable that the scenes of the Pittsburg
riots of last summer may be re-enacted at
any time in various portions of the State.
	In the States of Iowa and Illinois, though
there is less scarcity of food, business is
equally as dull, work as scarce and wages
as low as further east. In Central Illinois
coal has been selling at seventy-five cents
and one dollar per ton, loaded on the cars.
When coal is so low miners wages must be
at least proportionately so, and even those
who could find work at all, in many in-
stances, could not earn more than fifty cents
per day.
	The iron industry is suffering severely,
too. Workman in foundries and rolling
mills receive from eighty cents to a dollar
and a half per diem—very low wages for
that class of work—and all kinds of labor
is paid for at very low rates.
	Where will all this end? The states I
have named are only specimens of the
whole Union.
	Political parties are becoming, with great
rapidity, more intense and bitter in their
hatred of each other. Kearney, the Pacific
Coast agitator, is now in New England,
making inflammatory speeches to vast au-
diences of working men, which are re-
sponded to by thunderous applause, and
copied in all the leading newspapers of the
east. What will be the end of this politi-
cal discord?
	As a people, the Latterday Saints have
been thoroughly instructed, by the inspired
servants of God, as to what the end must
be. As a people we know that this Repub-
lic is doomed to suffer the wrath of an of-
fended God, and that among his judgments
will be famine, with its attendant horrors.
There are prophets in Israel who have
warned and forewarned us of these things.
But what will it benefit us to have prophets
in our midst, if we heed not their inspired
warnings?
	If the Saints in Zion could but appreciate
the true condition of this whole nation, as
one can who has traveled extensively
through it from west to east, I am sure they
would feel much more keenly than many
of them do the urgent necessity of making
immediate and strenuous efforts to prepare
for the terrible scenes that are near at hand,
the contemplation of which, when they are
pictured to the mind by the spirit of

[Column 3]
prophecy, is enough to appal the stoutest
heart.
	"Save the grain," is the motto that the
Latter-day Saints should adopt and act up-
on, for in the day of want all the faith we
ever had in the doctrine of new revelation,
modern prophets, etc., will not satisfy phy-
sical hunger, if our works have not been
according to our faith.
	Your brother in the Gospel,
