		THE REGAL CHAIR.

	"The chair is that in which the sovereigns
of England have been crowned since the
time of Edward the Second. The princi-
pal antiquity, however, connected with it
is the 'fatal stone,' enclosed within the
frame-work, immediately under the royal
seat; much of fable is connected with this
relic of antiquity. This stone is of an ob-
long form, but irregular, measuring 26
inches in length, 17 3/4 in breadth, 10 1/2 in
thickness; it is a sandy, granular stone
seat of debris of sienite, chiefly quartz,
with light and reddish colored feldspar,
and also light and dark mica. History re-
lates that it is the stone whereon the pa-
triarch Jacob laid his head, in the plain of
Luz. It is also added that it was brought
to Brigantia, in the kingdom of Gallicia. in
Spain, in which place Gathol, King of the
Scots, sat on it as his throne. Thence it
was conveyed into Ireland by Simon Brech,
who was King of the Scots, about 700
years before Christ; from thence into Scot-
land by King Fergus, about 370 years after-
wards; and in the year A. D. 1850, it was
transferred from Dunstaffrage Castle to the
Abbey Scone in the Sheriffdom of Perth,
by King Kenneth, who caused it to be en-
closed in this wooden chair, and a prophet-
ic verse to be engraved, of which the fol-
lowing is a translation.

	'Should fate not fail, where'er this stone is found,
	The Scots shall monarchs of that realm be crowned.'

	This is the more remarkable from its
having been fulfilled in the person of King
James the Sixth of Scotland and the First
of England, who was grandfather of the
Princess Sophia, Electress Dowager of
Hanover, grandmother of King George the
Second, and from the same lineage comes
the amiable Queen Victoria. The chair
itself is of oak, and is still firm and sound.
There can be no doubt, from the character
of its construction, that it belongs to the
reign of Edward First, and that it was
made for the reception of the highly prized
relic which it now encloses.
		Respectfully,
