THE STORING OF GRAIN.

	The great prevalence of disasters of various
kinds which tend to famine with its most ter-
rible consequences, should be an incentive to
the sisters who are interested in the storing of
grain and other products for a day to come, to
press forward and be active and earnest in the
noble enterprise. The women of Utah should
consider it a privilege to have the opportunity
of assisting in a great public benevolence of
this character. Woman's sympathies are all
enlisted in the cries of the needy, woman's
heart goes out in sweet charity to the little
children, whose woe-begone faces tell the story
of want, then let women who have been blest
above all women on the face of the earth, with
light and intelligence from above, use their
faculties for good and wise purposes.
	The counsel given the sisters to undertake
this seemingly arduous work was given by one
who is now resting from his earthly labors,
they should prove their devotion to him, their
respect for his words by heeding the advice he
gave, and fill the storehouses in the different
sections of the country with the products of
the soil, such as will preserve man and beast
in times of famine.
	This year the Lord has given to His people
abundant harvests, they should not be unmind-
ful of His goodness and favor but prove their
gratitude by storing up a portion to bless and
comfort the poor in the day of need.
	The Presidents of Relief Societies in city
and country should take active measures in re-
gard to this matter and when the wheat is gar-
nered, get their reports ready to forward to the
Central Grain Committee that they may be
prepared to make a full and correct statement
of all the grain in the Territory, or in possess-
ion of the sisters of the Relief Societies at the
Annual Grain Meeting which will be held in
this city Saturday. Nov. 16th, 1878. We ex-
pect to hear that some white beans also have
been stored; it has often been remarked
through these columns that white beans would
keep longer and require less care than even
the wheat.


