	PEACE AND GOOD WILL.

	In good old New England where our early
years were spent, in the home, in Sunday
School and in Church we were taught that the
Gospel of Christ meant peace and good-will,
that it inculcated great charity, that it taught
its followers to love their neighbors as them-
selves, in fact that to "Do to others as ye
would they should do unto you" was the max-
im ensuring the highest Christian attainment.
Can it be that New England people have
apostatized from the simple faith that was so
strenously enjoined upon us in childhood?  So
it would seem if we can credit what we read in
the columns of a Christian paper.  They
would inflict upon an industrious, thrifty, en-
terprising people the most severe chatisement
by refusing them the right of representation
to citizenship, to the protection which America
through her constitution guarantees to all her
children.  "The Watchman" says "In Utah
women vote.  We shall say nothing here con-
cerning the abstract propriety of giving the
ballot to women."  We judge from this that
"The Watchman" does not believe that woman
has any right to the ballot.  There are men and
women we are conscious, in dear old Mass-
achusetts who will never hold their peace un-
til the franchise is extended to woman, and not-
withstanding the strength and power of the
clergy and others who oppose suffrage for wo-
men, yet they cannot prevent its coming.
"The Watchman" says "In other parts of our
country there is a general conviction that un-
til women of culture and intelligence become
sufficiently interested in political affairs to go
to the polls, it would be dangerous to extend
the franchise to both sexes." "The Watchman"
must know that there are many hundreds of
women in the Old Baby State and other States
and Territories cultivated and intelligent who
are quite sufficiently interested to go to the
polls and vote—and all they lack is the privi-
lege of being allowed to use the ballot.
	And further "It would certainly not be
wrong for Congress to repeal the law giving
woman the franchise, and require conformity
to the almost universal custom of our nation."
Wise counselor, liberal and Christian-like to
wrest the ballot from the hands of a few heroic
women, who driven from their homes, friends
and associations have braved the perils of the
wilderness enduring the hardships, toils and
privations consequent upon a pioneer life.
These self-same women many of them de-
scended from Puritan fathers and mothers and
by every sacred right entitled to protection,
yet compelled to go beyond the borders of civ-
ilization, taking their lives in their hands as it
were, laying down by the way their loved
ones one after another, still enduring suffering
and fatigue, feeling only that God was their

[Column 2]
friend. Now after years of struggling and
poverty, prosperity in a measure has dawned
upon them, and blessings multiplied and even
the franchise extended to them, almost it
would seem, as a gift from God, forsooth these
good, pious people, who preach peace and good
will to all mankind, are afraid to let these wo-
men vote—it increases the power of the Mor-
mons; these women can be disfranchised, that
will be no injustice.  Further, "Congress, in
the exercise of its right to govern the Territo-
ries, should disfranchise those voters, whether
men or women, who are living in polygamous
marriage. * * * We do not know that it
would be proper to disfranchise the offspring of
all unlawful wives; yet even this might be
done, if necessary in order to defeat the politi-
cal views of those who promote the great bar-
barism."  How can this great Republic disfran-
chise her sons, who are by birth entitled to
citizenship, and who have infringed upon no
law?  When "The Watchman" talks at ran-
dom after this fashion, it is time it looked up
the law and studied the Constitution.  That is
something Congress is powerless to do.  "The
Watchman" should stick to religion, peace and
good will, and spare itself the trouble of giv-
ing advice to Congress in regard to disfranchis-
ing an honest, industrious people, who mind
their own business and do not believe in med-
dling; who till the soil, who build up the coun-
try, who maintain just laws and good institu-
tions, who do not encourage vice, or pauper-
ism, or vagrancy, who believe in being self-sup-
porting, who maintain their integrity to God
and their fellow men.
	Further, "The Watchman" says, "Gentile
women, as a rule, do not care to exercise the
privilege of voting, while the Mormon women
are urged and almost forced to exercise it."
This is, indeed, too much.  Mormon women
esteem the ballot a sacred right, and are anx-
ious to exercise it, there is no occasion to urge
or force them, for they have as much at stake
as their husbands have—their lives are insepar-
ably connected, and we would as much expect
to see the wife urging the husband to go to the
polls, or the daughter the father, as the oppo-
site.
	Mormon women know something of the
term liberty, for they have felt the iron rod of
oppression in being [-]riven out without shelter
to perish, as thousands did, and they will in-
graft into the minds and hearts of their chil-
dren the love of liberty and freedom, and teach
their sons to respect the claims of the injured
and the cries of the oppressed, and their daugh-
ters that they are entitled to all the rights and
privileges of free-born American women, and
that neither Congress nor Christian ministers
have any rights to defraud them of their inalien-
able birthright.
	We can forgive the "Watchman" for all its
absurdities, knowing as we do that God rules,
and that although "man proposes God dispos-
es," therefore we say watch and wait and you
will see the salvation of God, in the deliver-
ance of His people.
	And as for women everywhere, "Watchman,
what of the morning?'!  Do you not see the
morning star of woman's destiny in the as-
cendant?  Why the whole civilized world is
becoming enlightened with its beams. In
America, lighting up the dark places, are some
of its brightest rays becoming visible. There
are some wise men who recognize the star, and
who even say "peace and good will" to woman,
and take her by the hand and welcome her to
their circle, and would fain assign to her all
that nature gave her intelligence and capacity
to do, would lift her up to their level in educa-
tion, and in science, and say there is room for

[Column 3]
us both, let us walk side by side.  But in spite of
all, "the blind who will not see," the light will
dawn and they who recognize its importance
and participate in its effulgence will be blessed
and benefitted thereby.  Men and women will
be capable of greater good when they are lifted
to a higher standard, which they never can at-
tain while they are unjust to each other, and
narrow and selfish in their views of life and its
aims and possibilities.
	Surely there is room for all, in this great
country, and protection for all under its glori-
ous Constitutson.


