EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The subject I have chosen to write upon
is of great importance, namely, OUR HOLY
RELIGION. This is truly a subject that
should engage our attention to a much
greater extent than it really does; we
should strive continually to live nearer our
God, to live in such a way as to merit His
approbation, that we may call down His
blessings upon us and have His Spirit with
us at all times; then will all things be easy
for us, nothing will be too hard for us to
perform, no trial too hard for us to endure,
for the Spirit of the Lord will sweeten the
bitter cup. He does not require anything
at our hands that we cannot perform, and
things that would seem to be great trials
we would then take pleasure in doing. My
dear sisters, let us rise above the frivolous
things of the world; and live so as to enjoy
the Spirit of God; then we will know what
true happiness is. There is nothing in this
world brings the joy and comfort that it
does to know that the course we pursue is
right and pleasing in the sight of our
Heavenly Father. We see this fully illus-
trated here in the UNITED ORDER every
day. The happy faces we meet bespeak
their trust in God, for we feel assured He
will bless and prosper us in all our efforts to
serve Him and keep His commands. We
have been truly blessed and prospered in
every proceeding since our commencement
here. It is very wonderful to see the vast


amount of labor that has been performed
by a few stalwart sons of Israel, in opening
up new farms, and building dwellings.
They built a saw mill first, and sawed lum-
ber to make the frame buildings. They
are now building a dining hall, 56 by 28,
with kitchen in the centre; when com-
pleted we expect to all eat at one table.
All is peace and union here, and all feel as
though they were brothers and sisters in-
deed.
	Some people seem to think it a great
trial to live in this way; I think it a great
pleasure to live so, and feel that we are do-
ing the will of our Father. He will surely
bless and prosper us in all our efforts to
serve Him and keep His commandments.
None of our number have fallen victims to
sickness or disease, we have been blessed
with health, while all around us they have
been called to mourn the loss of near and
dear friends. This I esteem as one of the
greatest blessings we could enjoy. The
Lord has great blessings in store for us, if
we will only live up to His laws and re-
quirements; if we do not there is no prom-
ise to us. Let us be up and doing while
the day lasts, for if we do not soon the
summer will be past, the harvest ended,
and our souls not saved. Now is the ac-
cepted time of the Lord; then let us take
hold with a united effort and help roll on
this work, and never be found fighting
against any of the principles of the Gospel.
	Our Relief Society is in a flourishing
condition; our number is small, but through
the blessings of God we hope to do much
good. We have a great many kinds of
work under way, which, when, finished,
we expect to exchange for grain to lay up.
		Yours respectfully,
						M. T. WILCOX.
	Kingston, Piute Co., July 7, 1878.


