		NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE THIRD general meeting of the Uni-
ted Women's Societies of Germany will be
held this year at Wiesbaden, commencing
on October 2d.
	IN MUNICH lectures have been established
for the higher development of women. The
opening address was given by Dr. Francis
Von Holzendorff; it was very clear and
plain, pointing out that urgent necessity
requires a higher female education.—Ex.
	MANY OF the Eastern papers recognize
the fitness of having a woman-president
for Vassar College. The Orange (N. J.)
Journal recommends in the highest terms
Antoinette Brown Blackwell for that posi-
tion. She is a graduate of Oberlin in
classics and theology.
	SOME RUSSIAN ladies, who were study-
ing at Berlin, recently received a command
to return to St. Petersburg, and were then
accused of being members of a secret so-
ciety. Eight of the number were exiled
to Siberia and condemned to work in the
mines, and two were imprisoned. It is
said they belong to some of the best Rus-
sian families.—Ex.
	SIXTH CONGRESS OF WOMEN, 1878.—A
Sixth Congress of Women will be held at
Providence, R. I., October 9th, 10th and
11th, in Low's Opera House. Executive
session at 10 a. m. Public sessions at 2 and
7 p. m.
	At Evening session an admittance fee of
twenty-five cents will be charged.
	Entertainment during the sessions of
the Congress will be provided for officers
and speakers upon application to Miss Mary
E. Eddy, 32 Bradford Street, Providence.
		KATE N. DOGGET, President,
		MARY F. EASTNAN, Secretary.
	PRINCESS BISMARK has preserved all the
simplicity of her youth. She is a perfect
specimen, in the best sense of the word, of
the German Hausfrau (housewife). She is
very quiet, bears her honors as the most
natural thing in the world, holds fast by
the old friends of humbler days, and has
but one great object in life—to make her
husband and children happy. She cares
for them in a peaceful, motherly way; and
her serenity and patience, which have al-
ways secured for Bismarck a quiet home,
have certainly contributed to his success
through life. "She it is," he once said to a
friend, "who has made me what I am."
They have three children—Marie, Herbert
and William. Herbert is his father's pri-
vate secretary; William has studied for
the bar. Both will enter Parliament this
year.—Ex.

[Column 2]
	MADAME EMILE Durand, who is now
one of the literary celebrities of France,
writes under the nom de plume of "Henri
Greville." One of her efforts has just been
crowned by the Academy, and one or more
of her tales have been translated into all
the tongues of Europe. She is a comfort-
able looking lady of thirty-five, and a most
agreeable talker. In her varied experience
she has seen a good deal of the ups and
downs of life, but has now settled down, as
she says, "to making her three novels a
year." Her husband is the Paris corres-
pondent of a St. Petersburg paper, and a
painter.—Ex.
	THE ANNUAL Meeting of the Oregon
Sate Woman Suffrage Association was held
in Astoria, Aug. 7, Mrs. Abagail Scott
Duniway, editor of the "New North
West," presiding. The main questions un-
der discussion were Suffrage, Widows'
Rights, Ownership of Children. Mrs.
Duniway seems to have been quite satis-
fied with the success of the meeting. This
lady makes a call through her columns for
a special meeting of the O. S. W. S. A., to
be held at Salem, Oregon, Sept. 25th. She
invites the best speakers and essayists of
the State to be present and participate in
the deliberations. The Convention will
occupy three days and evenings. The con-
vention is called for the purpose of agitat-
ing woman's claims for political enfran-
chisement. Mrs. Duniway is an able lec-
turer and an indefatigable and earnest
worker in woman's advancement. She re-
cently delivered a memorial address to the
Constitutional Convention of Washington
Territory, in behalf of the suffrage for wo-
man, appealing to the members of the Con-
vention to incorporate Woman's S[-]ffrage
in the State Constitution under which they
seek admission into the UNION. The ad-
dress is well written—Mrs. D. makes use of
strong arguments in presenting woman's
claims, and appeals in eloquent language,
which must have made itself felt, coming
from the lips of an earnest woman, in be-
half of her sister-women.


