[Vol55 | April 1968 | Page 296 | General Feature | Mama's Dish Cupboard Joy | Lamoreaux Frei]
MAMA'S DISH CUPBOARD Joy Lamoreaux Fret # There is in a simple household task an occasional wafting, as of spring into summer, of a lovely memory. Such is my remembrance of a Saturday, when Mama, finishing her toast and honey, rose from the table in quite her ordinary way, saying "Hurry and finish breakfast, girls, because this morning we must get at that dish cupboard." But cleaning Mama's dish cupboard was anything but ordinary. It was an adventure; it summoned all the warmth and glow of a girl's delight, like new patent leather shoes for the Fourth of July, or standing barefoot at the hearth on Christmas Eve. Mama, though, would pull a chair to the kitchen cabinet as though she did that every day, and the cleaning of her cupboard began. Each of us had our special "dish," and as Mama handed dusty favorites to her girls, we heard again the promises: when we were grown, they would be ours to keep; we would have ideal husbands and lovely china cupboards, with this exquisite glass behind the panes. And as each piece descended, Mama, too, became enchanted, and told nostalgic tales for every one. "That cup came all the way across the plains in great-grandma's wagon box," she would say, And we imagined the lady in homespun skirts, wrapping cut glass in linen and protecting it across plains and mountains, while her own hands grew red and rough. And we knew how tenderly she unwrapped it, and how fondly it was placed in the old west home, a delicate radiance beside log walls. And we could see Mama, laughing, vivacious, with crumpled tissue about her knees in her own first home, and daddy smiling at her beauty. For "that was a present on our own wedding day." There was the tiny tea service with tiny cups that one plump mulberry would fill on summer mornings under the mulberry tree; and the baby plate and cup that had been glued many times since'six rosy mouths had learned to drink from it. So carefully, so gently, we washed and polished every shimmering piece, and each was seen as through a mist, and brought a flood of questions, and romantic answers. Answers that would live for us when, in the distant years, mama would be gone, and we would hear her laughter floating from the shelves of our own cupboards, cleaning them. Our own cupboards—that would embrace the dear fragilities that had been Mama's. Cupboards that would need scrubbing, but would never seem a task to scrub, that would welcome soap and keep the secret of remembering tears. Cleaning Mama's dish cupboard was the glory of a Saturday morning— and more. For the memory of those mornings would, with marriage and children, bring a gentle realization of the timelessness of woman's spirit, of the enduring tenderness of ordinary women who had loved and been loved, and who treasured crystal symbols of that love. And just as Mama's girl had stood enthralled at the tale behind a glistening teacup, just as Mama had known the enchantment of her mother's cupboard, so our daughters would one day ask, "And where did you get this dish, Mama?"