[Vol55 | April 1968 | Page 271 | General Feature | The Home Inside and Out The Seven C's Plus Contentment | Mabel Jones Gabbott]
[The Home Inside and Out The Seven C's Plus Contentment Mabel Jones Gabbott]

I sang when I was burdened, A tender, sweet refrain; I learned that one who suffered Found comfort for his pain. I sang when fears obsessed me, New courage quelled my fear And a timid soul was strengthened I did not know was near. — Della Adams Leitner 271 Vangie Mae Blair =» Louise Farmer leaned back in her chair and glared at her blanket-draped legs propped on the old footstool and felt sorry for herself. She knew it was stupid to feel that way. She was really very lucky, but that didn't seem to make any difference. This was the first time in her life she had been tied down. Even after the birth of each of her five children she had always been able to get up and do things. Not much, of course, but still she had never felt so physically trapped as she felt now. "All because of a silly little operation," she said to the vase of wilted daffodils on the table beside her. Oh, but it wasn't silly, she mentally reminded herself, with 272 a sad shake of her gray head. An operation for her varicose veins had been necessary, important, and for her own good. The doctor had told her that over and over again. "And now all you will have to do," he had said, "is to keep off your feet and give everything a chance to adjust." As if it was easy to keep off your feet and do nothing. That was the hardest thing in the world, just ask anyone who ever tried it! She looked around the room in disgust. There was a thin film of dust on her tables, television, and buffet. The rug by the door needed straightening, and all of the flowers were wilted and needed to be thrown away and fresh ones cut and arranged. It would be so easy, she thought, just to take fifteen minutes and fix it all up. But she had given her word to the doctor that she would follow, to the letter, his orders of extremely limited movement. All her life she had kept her promises. She was going to keep this one, even if it nearly killed her to do it. What really topped it off, she thought to herself with a vengeance, was that today was the Sabbath and she couldn't go to her meetings. The benches in the chapel were too hard and much too close together to let her use a footstool to keep her feet up.