[Vol55 | April 1968 | Page 304 | General Feature | Notes From the Field Relief | Society Activities]
The discovery of many hidden talents and an appreciation of Relief Society by the husbands was a great reward."' 308 Notes From the Field Memphis Stake (Tennessee) Holds First Relief Society Bazaar December 2, 1967 Front row, left to right: Melba Murphy, President, Helena (Ark.) Branch Relief Society; Dana McDaniel, President, Memphis Second Ward Relief Society (Tenn.), Macelle Holliday, President, Sarah (Miss.) Ward Relief Society; Mary Webber, Homemaking Counselor, Helena Branch Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Charmein Hexem, Homemaking Counselor, Jonesboro (Ark.), Branch Relief Society; Marie Rogeau, President, Jonesboro Branch Relief Society; Ramona Floyd, President, Booneville (Miss.) Ward Relief Society; Carol Johnson, President, Hayti (Mo.) Ward Relief Society; Louise Burns, President, Memphis Ward Relief Society; Sylvia Messner, Homemaking Counselor, Millington (Tenn.) Ward Relief Society. Mary Lou Rourk, President, Memphis Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A sweet spirit of love and cooperation prevailed throughout the day at the first stake bazaar of the Memphis Stake Relief Society, although outside there raged the worst rainstorm of the year, complete with tornado warnings. "The theme of the bazaar was 'Around the World,' and the booths featured handwork and ideas from many countries. Everyone worked hard, and inside the gymnasium at Crenshaw (Miss.) High School, there was nothing but sunshine."' 

309 April 1968

 Kansas City Stake Annual Relief Society Social December 8, 1967 Facing camera, left to right: Marjorie Nelson; Edith Conwell; Juanita Harris; Rowena S. Gillette; Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society; Marjorie M. Reeve, President, Kansas City Stake Relief Society. Shown greeting the sisters are President Jewel A. Pope of the Kansas City Stake, his mother, and wife Jean. Sister Reeve reports: ''The Kansas City Stake Relief Society held its annual social in December. The stake board and Sister Sharp greeted the guests as they arrived. 'A short program of musical numbers and remarks by Sister Sharp were followed by a presentation of 'As a City on a Hill,' by Alberta H. Christensen. "An art display lined the walls of the cultural hall. In our September leadership meeting the art work of the sisters had been displayed, and we felt it was worthwhile to show the work to the entire stake. "This social is looked forward to each year."' Bountiful North Stake (Utah) Relief Society Sewing Schools and Fashion Show Seated, left to right: Janene B. Wood; Dalane M. Evenson. I Standing, left to right: Gayle H. McMaster, Homemaking Counselor, Bountiful North Stake Relief Society; Jean G. Ashby; Mildred A. Van Uitert, President; Rulena O. Gray; Evelyn C. Lemon, stake homemaking leader; Edna N. Eggett, guest commentator; Anita H. Davis, Secretary-Treasurer; Shirley C. Moss. Sister Van Uitert reports: ''Early in the spring of 1967, the Bountiful North Stake initiated a series of sewing schools, under the direction of the stake Relief Society presidency and the stake homemaking leader. Classes ranging from beginning sewing to tailoring were offered. The ward homemaking leaders were instructed; they then conducted the schools on a ward basis. 'Participation was excellent, and hundreds of articles, emphasizing Church dress standards, were made. "In the fall, a fashion show was staged, with mothers and children modeling the clothing. The guests were seated at beautifully decorated small tables where refreshments were served. Musical numbers and a guest commentator helped to make the event outstanding. "Enthusiasm was so great that the sewing schools will be held again this year. We feel that it is a great addition to the lives of the sisters, learning to work together, sewing, budgeting money, time, materials, and learning something useful and profitable." Bountiful South Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Christmas Concert December 1, 1967 Eulala H. Butters, President, Bountiful South Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Christmas concert had its inception early in the spring when a letter was directed to each ward, encouraging the sisters to write a song in keeping with the scriptures or the Christmas season, set to music. 'We were delighted when sixteen original compositions were submitted, all beautifully written. We used eight of these for our concert, and the others in stake leadership meetings. The original music was intermingled with a beautiful narration, written and given by Sister Elaine McKay. "Organ music and Christmas carols sung by each ward group were a prelude to the concert. Beautiful displays of gifts, ornaments, and decorations greeted early arrivals. A tableau with special lighting effects made the concert complete. Nearly 1150 people attended the concert, and left with a special feeling of closeness to the Savior of the world, and a greater appreciation of the efforts of the Singing Mothers."