[Vol55 | April 1968 | Page 298 | General Feature | "It Is Time to Get in the Chips" | Zara Sabin]
Time to Get in the Chips" Zara Sabin: Today, as I was preparing kindling for the fireplace, my thoughts went to a time long past when a little boy sang gaily, "It is five o'clock, it is six o'clock, it is time to get in the chips.... It is five o'clock, it is six o'clock, it is time to get in the chips." The chips were from logs the older brothers or father sawed or chopped and split for use throughout the house for its warming or the cooking of meals. Again, I saw the kitchen range, its black top gleaming almost as brightly as its silver-hued ornaments; smelled the oven-fresh bread, pies, and cakes; heard the popping of corn in the big three-footed iron kettle. Prayers of the kneeling group, which surrounded the table night and morning, giving thanks for blessings and asking guidance and protection in speech and act, rang in my ears and heart. The laughter and gaiety, banter, and jokes of a family who loved life and each other, sang around the parlor organ, worked together in the house or field, which included a carefree boy who could make his own song, are memories beyond price, such as belong to many an older generation. "It is five o'clock, it is six o'clock, it is time to get in the chips." aS THE INTERVAL I long for an interval now and then, iff \ With no one demanding my presence, when {jj}! The tasks of the day are complete and done, No heed of tomorrow, no care, not one. Close the shutters tight, let the darkness keep An Interval quiet as childhood sleep: But a child no longer, what drone am I That others should shield as the days go by? Fling the shutters wide, let the daylight in, What matters age? It is time to begin To do what I can, when I can, and how; Tomorrow abides, but today is now. F F — Bertha A. Kleinman <@) 298 # The old Saipanese woman had told her son she had a big secret. But, like a child, she was anxious to share that secret with someone who could really appreciate its full impact. And now she had found that soneeone—Nancy. "The old woman want to show you something," the man said, "in the boonies. Come." Nancy obediently followed them onto a path which appeared from out of nowhere. Inadvertently, she crunched snail shells beneath her feet and ducked under giant spider webs as she was led deeper and deeper into the tangantangan. Then the foliage dropped suddenly from roof-top to knee-high, and the jungle became a quiet forest sprouting row upon row of white, weathered grave markers.