[Vol55 | April 1968 | Page 292 | General Feature | And a Bag to Match | Shirley Thulin]
And A Bag To Match Shirley Thulin = Every little girl loves Mommy's purse, so surprise her with a bag of her very own. This project is so easy, you may want to make several, one to match each new dress you make for her. The bag should be made of faille or a similar fabric. If the child's new dress is of a thinner material, line it with faille or heavy satin, and treat the lining and the matching dress fabric as one piece of material. Bonded lace also makes a beautiful bag. First, cut two circles of fabric 15 inches in diameter. Pin the two sections together, right sides facing. (If you are lining the bag you will have four circles. Be sure to pin the four together so that the right sides of the dress fabric will be together.) Stitch all around ¥, inch from the edge, leaving an opening of 3 inches, as shown in figure 1. Now trim the seam allowance to ', inch, turn the right side out, and slip stitch the opening together. Now, with a fine needle (so that it will not leave holes in the fabric) baste all around the edge, pulling out the seam so that the circle will be nice and round. Now press and remove the bastings. Second, on the wrong side, mark a circle %/, inch from the edge. Now mark another circle */, inch from this circle. Stitch around both of these marked circles. This forms a casing. Make two buttonholes one inch apart on each side (figure 2). Be sure to make the buttonholes through the casing only, and not clear through to the right side. You will have to make them by hand. Thus, from the right side, the buttonholes will not show. Third, make two drawstrings, each ¥, yard long. These can be made of white shoelaces, rug yarn, or ribbon. To insert the drawstrings, fasten a safety pin to the end of one drawstring. Pass through one buttonhole in the casing, work around, passing in and out of both buttonholes on opposite side. Bring string out of second buttonhole of first side (figure 3). Join the ends by knotting the drawstring. Fasten a safety pin to the second drawstring; insert in the buttonhole on the opposite side and thread clear around just like the first drawstring. Now turn to right side and the bag is finished. 292 ... And A Bag To Match _—3", Y"' Buttonholes >\ Inside of Bag \< Buttonholes Figure 1 Figure 2 Inside of Bag Figure 3 PIGEONS AT DAWN The morning wakes to