Notes to the Field Mormon Handicraft MORMON HANDICRAFT was a dream, then a plan and is now a reality. It has opened its friendly doors to all, especially the visitors to our city. Its beautiful setting overlooking as it does the Temple grounds is very advantageous. This and its worthy unselfish purpose should assure its success. IT has been organized to help meet the crying need for more income and more ways of supplementing and adding to the family resources. Our people have been drawn from many different lands and they have brought their characteristic traits and talents with them. Many are gifted and artistic and do excellent handwork. Mormon Handicraft affords a market for this work and has been instituted primarily for this purpose. In order to be self-maintaining it must retain a small amount of the proceeds when the articles are sold. It is hoped that it will be possible to reduce the amount of the retainer when experience proves that it can operate on a smaller amount. The movement has great possibilities for developing new avenues of employment. While our women have always made fine quilts, this should create a demand for many more. The same might be hoped for other things such as rug making, sewing, needle work, pottery, wood carving, painting and sculpture. The making of jellies and jams from native fruits, ground cherry preserve like pioneers made can be featured. Dried corn, candy, honey, figs and sorghum should prove salable and might develop into an industry at points where materials are found and are available. THE General Board appreciates the loyal and hearty cooperation that has been given by many stakes, wards and individuals. St. John's Stake, Arizona, was the first to take out a membership. It was followed closely by North Weber and its 8th Ward. Highland Stake brought many fine articles with its application for membership. Wasatch Stake brought in a variety of aprons. Sister Broadbent, of Wasatch Stake, was the first individual to proffer an article for sale. Granite Stake has the distinction of being the first to take out a membership for the stake and for each ward in the stake. IT is hoped that our fine workmen will avail themselves of the opportunity to turn the work of their leisure time to profit without leaving their homes. Not only will it add to their income but it will increase their skill, their power to do and through exercising their self-expression happier, fuller living will result. IT can be a challenge to all our people to develop their talents and latent possibilities; to create and make things of a high standard of excellence. "By their works ye shall know them." These articles displayed and offered for sale will be the banner of the Mormon people to the world. Emerson said that if a man makes even a mouse trap better than any one else the world will beat a path to his door. WE trust that each member of our great Relief Society organization will use her leisure to grow to full stature of her possibilities. As Walter Pitkin quotes an old English saying: "Rest is not quitting the busy career, Rest is the fitting of self for one's sphere." Mormon Handicraft is organized to aid you; to encourage you by making a market for your hand work. Work and Business Department? Knitting: HAVE you ever tried a knitting exchange? If not you will find it a very profitable and enjoyable experience for a Work and Business Meeting. Have members bring knitting to meeting and then exchange their patterns and instructions with one another. At the same meeting a fashion show of knit dresses and sweaters, as well as a display of knit articles, adds much to the occasion. Hand knit dresses are among the most durable and inexpensive clothing, as well as the most fashionable. At a recent fashion show of "knits" in a large department store, the average cost of material was $5.00. There were dresses and sweaters for all occasions and they were truly beautiful. Knit children's and baby clothes are very durable and comfortable. They launder well and are especially good for school. One may obtain from the local merchants illustrated booklets on knitting which give full detailed instructions on how to make the articles illustrated. These booklets contain many suggestions, and ideas for things not illustrated for those who are interested and quick to see possibilities. The following is a practical list of these booklets: "Hand Knits" Vol. 97, price 15c. Resort Fashions, published by the Bear Brand and Bucilla Yarns. "Fleishers Classic Hand Knit"? THE FIELD 393 Both Men and Women's clothing, Price 20c. "Bernat's Handicrafter," Price 25c. "Minerva Capri Book," price 25c. "Fleishers Children's Book," this is very fine, and has everything for children. Vol. 33, price 25c. "Fleishers New Hand Knits for Youth (Girls)," price 25c. "Fleishers New Fashions in Hand Knits," Vol. 45, price 25c. (This is very complete and beautifully illustrated.) "Knitted Creations," by Nantung, designs for men and women, price 25c. We must not forget shawls. Is there anything lovelier to wrap a baby in than a fluffy knit white shawl? Undoubtedly many women will like new patterns for these and will bring shawls for display. Enlistment Committee EFFICIENT Enlistment Committee Gets Results," is the very intriguing title under which Sister Elizabeth McKay Hill discusses this very important work in Relief Society. We are very grateful to Sister Hill for the following account of this fine service, and the office heartily endorses it: "Enlistment work" in the Bonneville Stake under the capable leadership of Ella Coulam is one of our strongest departments. Sister Coulam is a past President, and a woman blessed with the gifts of vision, wisdom and tact. "A committee of four with one acting as Chairman is chosen in each Ward and it is their duty to learn and interest all who are not attending Relief Society. A card catalogue is compiled containing the name, address and telephone number of each woman living in the Ward eligible 394 for Relief Society Membership, and by comparison with the roll the committee is aware of the women whom they should interest through personal contact. "It is suggested that the teacher supervisors call members of the enlistment committee to accompany the regular visiting teacher when her companion cannot go. This enables the enlistment committee members to visit all parts of the Ward and gives them an opportunity to broaden their acquaintance and interest new members. On regular meeting day, the enlistment officers act as a reception committee and introduce to the presiding officers and other members all new-comers and those not acquainted. Nominations for membership may be made by the enlistment committee members. "On Union Meeting days, the Stake Board member invites a representative from each of the Ward Committees to help receive at the door, so that to each one who attends, a familiar hand is extended and introductions are exchanged enabling all to become Stake conscious as well as Ward conscious. "The Relief Society Handbook is used as a guide in class work at Stake Department meetings; each committee member learns what Relief Society really stands for and can therefore talk intelligently on the subject. "When Bonneville Stake was organized in 1935, we had an enrollment in our Relief Societies of 435. At the close of 1936 our enrollment was 480. During the year two new Wards were organized from Yale and LeGrand Wards, creating Yalecrest and Gilmer Park; as a result, Gilmer Park enrolled 19 new members and Yalecrest 24 new members. "For January, February, March, 1937, due to enlistment work, Thirty-third Ward has 6 new members, Yale Ward 6, Yalecrest 7, Emigration 3, LeGrand 11, and Gilmer Park 2. "We will ever owe a debt of gratitude to Myrtle B. Shurtliff, who was instrumental in starting this work in 1922, when she was President of Liberty Stake, our Mother Stake." LESSONS FOR 1937-38 The Ministry of the Savior. In the Theology Department the following lessons will be studied: 1. Some Mormon Contributions To An Understanding Of The Life And Teachings Of Christ. 2. Some Mormon Contributions To An Understanding Of The Life And Teachings Of Christ. (Cont'd.) 3. A Supreme Rule of Life?The Law Of Brotherhood. 4. The Use Of Parables In Christ's Teaching. 5. Some Thoughts On, Prayer And The Reign Of Law In The Master's Teaching. 6. Christ And The Doctrine Of The Resurrection. 7. Christ And The Atonement. 8. The Second Advent Of The Messiah. 9. The Influence Of The Christ On Civilization. The main references for this course are: Bible. Book of Mormon Doctrine and Covenants. Pearl of Great Price. Gospel Doctrine?Smith. The Way to Perfection?Smith. Jesus The Christ?Talmage. The Articles of Faith?Talmage. An additional list of reference books found in the different lessons which will be very helpful for comparison for those who can get access to them follows. Some are not available even to those who have money to purchase them, but some of them will doubtless be found in the seminary libraries. Critical Introduction to the Old Testament?Gray. Introduction To The Old Testament?McFadyen. Literature Of The New Testament ?Scott. New Testament Criticism?Dana. Jesus of Nazareth?Klausner. Experience With The Supernatural In Early Christian Times?Case. The Teachings of Jesus?Rall. Notes on the Parables of our Lord ?Trench. The Parables of Jesus?Goebel. The Parabolic Teaching of Christ ?Bruce. The Parables of Jesus?Buttrick. Why I Believe in Religion? Brown. Religion and The Mind of Today ?Leighton. The Mediation and Atonement? Taylor. The Art of Florence?H. H. Powers. Great Books?F. W. Farrar. TEACHERS' TOPIC In the Teachers' Topic certain traits and dispositions of the Master will be given. The following are the topics: 1. The Strength Of Jesus. 2. The Firmness Of Jesus. 3. The Optimism Of Jesus. 4. The Courage Of Jesus. 5. The Reasonableness Of Jesus. 6. The Humility Of Jesus. 7. The Patience Of Jesus. 8. The Poise Of Jesus. 9. The Friendship Of Jesus. 395 LITERATURE In the Literature Department Biography will be continued with the following lessons: 1, 2, and 3?Sacagawea. 4 and 5?Log Cabin Lady. 6, 7, 8, and 9?The Romance Of An Old Playhouse. These volumes may be secured at the Deseret Book Store at the following prices: Star Of The West, Sacagawea $1.00 postpaid Log Cabin Lady $1.25 postpaid The Romance Of An Old Playhouse $2.00 postpaid If the entire course is purchased at one time the price to Relief Society is $4, postpaid. MISSION LESSONS The Mission Lessons in Biography are as follows: 1. Margaret Bach Huefner. 2. Jennette Evans McKay. 3. Magdalena Straubhaar Schwendiman. 4. Melissa Jane Lambson Davis. 5. Margaret Stalle Barker. 6. Review And Discussion Of Lessons 1-5. 7, 8, and 9. Sacagawea. Mission Lessons in Child Guidance: 1. Social Behavior. 2. Work and Play. 3. Children's Lies. 4. Sex Education. 5. Adolescence. 6. Personality Adjustments. 7. Success And Failure. 8. Mental Hygiene Of Childhood.