Another Woman for the Hall of Fame
Alice L. Reynolds
The prohibition question has been very much to the fore of late. The November issue of the contains an article by President Clarissa S. Williams on the subject of "Prohibition Enforcement," which is in line with one phase of current thought on that subject. All this brings to mind the fact that the movement that finally resulted in the Eighteenth Amendment was begun by a band of courageous women under the leadership of Frances Elizabeth Willard, whose statue in the Hall of Fame, in Washington, proclaims the fact that one woman at least has been deemed worthy of place by the side of the distinguished men whose statues are to be found in the rotunda of the national Capitol.
But this article is not chiefly interested in Frances Willard on prohibition, but in the woman for whom American women voted, that she, too, like Frances Willard, might have the honor of having her statue placed in the nation's Hall of Fame. The rules of the contest provide that no woman may be considered for such honor until ten years after her death. The result of the last vote on this matter gave the place to Alice Freeman Palmer, wife of George Herbert Palmer of Harvard University.
Alice Freeman, later Mrs. George Herbert Palmer, is perhaps the most conspicuous woman from the standpoint of education that America has produced. She was born February 21, 1855, at Colesville, Broome county, New York. Her childhood was spent in the beautiful region of the Susquehanna river. She was a great lover of nature, pitying those who lived in cities because she felt "that the country-bred were provided with securer sources of happiness."
As a child she was precocious, as the following anecdote will illustrate: Once while at evening prayers a large Junebug came through the window and entered one of her curls. She could not induce him to fly away. She kept quiet until prayer was over, then said to her father, "I wanted to scream but I couldn't upset you and God." "Of course not," said her father, who carried the insect off.
At the period when she was passing from childhood to girlhood, the family moved to Windsor, New York. Here she entered Windsor Academy, a school maintained by the Presbyterian 
church. From this institution she was graduated in 1872. She went a thousand miles from home to attend college in Ann Arbor, Michigan, for the doors of that institution had been thrown wide open to women.
President Angell tells the story of her entrance into that institution as follows: "In 1872, when Alice Freeman presented herself at my office, accompanied by her father, to apply for admission to the University, she was a simple, modest girl of seventeen. She had pursued her studies in the little academy at Windsor. Her teacher regarded her as a child of much promise, precocious, possessed of a bright, alert mind, of great industry, of quick sympathies and of an instinctive desire to be helpful to others. Her preparation for college had been meagre and both she and her father were doubtful of her ability to pass the required examinations. The doubts were not without foundation. The examiners on inspecting her work, were inclined to decide that she ought to do more preparatory work before they could accept her. Meantime I had had not a little conversation with her and her father, and had been impressed with her high intelligence. At my request the examiners decided to allow her to enter on a trial of six weeks. I was confident that she would demonstrate her capacity to go on with her class. I need hardly add that it was soon apparent to her instructors that my confidence was fully justified. She speedily gained and constantly held an excellent position as a scholar."
She remained in the university until her graduation. At commencement a part was assigned her, "one of the first granted to the girl students of Michigan." Her subject was "The Relations of Science and Poetry." President Angell, in commenting on her address, observed that "it captured the attention of her audience and held it firmly throughout."
After graduation from Michigan, she accepted, at the solicitation of a friend, a position at a girl's seminary at Lake Geneva, Wisconsin. Here she taught Latin and Greek. In the summer of 1877 she was offered an instructorship in Wellesley college, but declined because of the severe illness of her sister, Stella. She next went to Saginaw, Michigan, where a teacher of great tact was needed, for that reason President Angell had recommended her to the superintendent. Within two months, we are told, all friction in the school had disappeared.
Her sister Stella passed away on June 20, 1879, and now for the third time Alice Freeman received an invitation to go to Wellesley, this time to be head of the department of history. That she succeeded admirably in this position and that her influence in the school was of undoubted value can readily be realized when we take into consideration the fact that by 1881 she was president of the college.
In reviewing her life, President Charles W. Eliot of Harvard said: "At twenty-two years of age she was already principal of a high school in Michigan. At twenty-four she took a
professorship of history in a new college for women where all of the officers and teachers were women?a pioneer work indeed. At twenty-six she became president of that novel college, at a time when its worth had not yet been demonstrated."
The period of her presidency was in many ways the richest period of her life, and because of this fact we shall go somewhat into detail. Her administration lasted just six years, but in that brief period of time, we are told by her husband, in his excellent story of her life, she "created a Wellesley type which has proved durable." It is said of her that "she fashioned the college after her own image!"
One of the first things she did was to raise the college standards, thereby producing "an atmosphere of exactitude." The college steadily grew in popularity and prestige, so that frequently over a hundred desirable young women were turned away because the dormitory room was insufficient and Wellesley was too small a town to accommodate many students in private homes.
After all, it was not the fact that Miss Freeman gave scholastic tone to Wellesley that counted most in her administration, but the wonderful spirit that radiated from a rich personality. In the first place, she made a business of coming in very close contact with her students. She dined with a large group every day, keeping her office doors swinging wide open so that she was easy of access. By some means or other best known to herself she managed to meet all the girls of the college personally within a short time after the opening of school, and these meetings were of no casual nature, for she managed to turn most of the girls in the right direction. She was with her students and yet above them.
Her husband, George Herbert Palmer, tells a group of stories that serve to illustrate her characteristics and go far to show why she was so successful as a college president. He tells us that at one time "a woman who had already spent several years in teaching" and was "nervous, vain, and touchy," easily finding in whatever was said some covert disparagement of herself, was complaining one day of some recent rudeness. Miss Freeman said, "Why not be superior to these things and let them go unregarded?" "I wonder how you would like to be insulted," came the quick reply. Miss Freeman drew herself up with splendid dignity: "Miss S., there is nobody living who could insult me!" "And she was right. No one would have dared do so, but had they attempted it, they would have found her altogether beyond their reach."
Another story from her husband reads: "A gentleman tells me that when he attended a small New England college he found some of the regulations galling. On 
remonstrating, he was told, 'You'd better go to Wellesley, where, whenever the little president raises her hand, the whole college hurries to obey.'" Yet her authority did not rest on bare will; on knowledge rather, on sanity, poise, and a large way of handling business.
One of her students writes of her: "Mrs. Palmer had a strange effect on me. When I saw her, I felt as if I could do things that I never dreamed of before. Even now, whenever I think of her, I have a sense of dignity in my life. I don't know what it is. It seems as if her appreciation of the worth of things puts a spirit into me that carries me along until the next time I think of her. I shouldn't care to go on in a world in which she hadn't been."
"Probably the ennobling atmosphere which seemed thus to radiate from her presence was in some measure connected with her religious faith. She believed that conscious fellowship with God is the foundation of every strong life, the natural source from which all must derive their power and their peace."
The sum and substance of the whole thing is she radiated such power into the midst of her work that none who came in contact with her seem able to forget her.
But her term at Wellesley was cut short by the advent of Professor George Herbert Palmer into her life. In the summer of 1886 she visited with a friend the country home of the Palmer family at Boxford. This was the beginning of the end, as friendship ripened into love. It was on the anniversary of her thirty-second birthday that Mr. Palmer presented her with an engagement ring. They kept their secret until the end of the year; Mr. Palmer remained away from Wellesley, as both understood that the work of the institution would be upset if the truth were guessed. As soon as the commencement exercises were over, Miss Freeman called a meeting of the trustees and told them of her engagement.
Mr. Palmer tells us that it was his hope that she would at once be released, that the marriage might take place during the summer. However, the trustees could not be brought to see things in this light, they felt that her leaving would surely imperil the college, consequently they asked for time to look about for someone to fill her place. They suggested some very novel arrangements in order to keep her, one of which was that Professor Palmer should sever his connection with Harvard University, marry Miss Freeman, and accept a position on the Wellesley faculty. Finally, Mr. Palmer agreed in anything but a whole-hearted way that she should remain at Wellesley until December. This, he thinks, was the one serious mistake made by both of them, as it only put off her resignation for a short period and made her very unhappy, as she had constantly to listen to rea-
sons why she should not marry at all. The only thing that made the situation tolerable was that there were those who agreed with Charles W. Eliot's diagnosis of the situation, when he wrote: "After six years of masterly work at Wellesley College, in which she exhibited the keenest intelligence, large executive ability, and a remarkable capacity for winning affection and respect, she laid down these functions, married at the age of thirty-two and apparently entered on a wholly new career. Alice Freeman thus gave the most striking testimony she could give of her faith in the fundamental social principle that love between man and woman, and the family life which results therefrom, afford for each sex the conditions of its greatest happiness. The opponents of the higher education of women had always argued that such education would tend to prevent marriage and to dispossess the family as the cornerstone of society. Alice Freeman gave the whole force of her conspicuous example to disprove that objection. She illustrated in her own case the supremacy of love and of family life in the heart of both men and women."
She was married January 3, 1887, the first day of the Christmas recess of Harvard University. It was Mr. Palmer's sabbatical year and they went to Europe to enjoy it. This was the first play year of her life, a strenuous year in some respects, but one full of pleasant experiences. When they returned home she had the first opportunity of her life for leisure. Such an active nature as hers could not long be divorced from work. She plunged into the duties of housekeeping and hostess, achieving marked success in both lines. It was not long before she was again absorbed in public life.
In 1889 she was appointed a member of the Massachusetts State Board of Education by Governor Ames. She constantly made addresses, her journal shows frequently as many as forty in a year. Of her public addresses President Angell wrote, "Few speakers have in so large a measure as she that magnetic unanalyzable power, divinely given now and then to some fortunate man or woman, of captivating and charming and holding complete possession of assemblies from the first to the last utterance."
When the University of Chicago began its work, President Harper would not relinquish the thought of Alice Freeman Palmer as the first dean of women. She urged that the undertaking was impossible at such a distance from her home. President Harper tried to tempt her husband by offering him a place on the Chicago faculty with a substantial raise of salary, but Professor Palmer felt that his work was with the Harvard faculty. She finally compromised and remained long enough at Chicago to get the women's work under way, and give to it that tone and idealization that is so dearly prized by all who ever saw her work.
But she never forgot her beloved Wellesley, being potent in the raising of a fund of over $110,000 at one time for its advancement.
In 1902 another sabbatical year came to Professor Palmer. They went abroad, but soon after reaching Europe, her health failed her, and she was ordered to a French hospital, where attended by skilled physicians and devoted nurses she died, December 6, 1902. 
After Mr. Palmer's return from Europe, a memorial service was held in Harvard chapel. This occurred January 31, 1903. No more memorable and distinguished service was ever held for an American woman than for Alice Freeman Palmer. A chorus of Harvard men and another of Wellesley girls furnished the music. Four college presidents made addresses?Presidents Angell, Hazard, Tucker and Eliot.
Few women have had as many monuments reared to them as has this highly gifted and self-sacrificing woman. In 1890 Abbott Thayer painted her portrait for Wellesley college, and in 1892 Anne Whitney carved her bust. A monument interpreting her work, designed by Daniel Chester French, has been placed in Wellesley college chapel, and a magnificent building bearing her name is found upon the campus of the University of Michigan.
Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde, business manager of the , desires Magazine agents, in addition to previous instructions, to bear in mind the following hints:
Postal employees would rather handle mail correctly than otherwise, as it takes less time, less effort and causes less annoyance. But the tendency of some patrons to ignore requirements, and the ingenuity of others in concealing their intent, mislead the most experienced clerks and carriers at times.
A list of valuable hints by which the patron may expedite his own business as well as facilitate the work of postal employees is given:
Use street and number in addressing all mail for city delivery. Too much emphasis cannot be laid upon the desirability of addressing plainly, correctly and completely all mail matter. Envelopes and wrappers should also carry return cards of senders.
Avoid careless abbreviations?Cal. And Col., Miss. And Minn., Va. And Pa., Ind. And Md., are often confused. "When in doubt?spell it out."
Avoid making remittances with currency and stamps in the ordinary mail. Use money orders or other safe methods of sending money.
Register valuable inclosures and such correspondence as may require a record or receipt.