Amy Brown Lyman Elected to State Legislature
Dr. George W. Middleton
Amy Brown Lyman will bring to the legislative chamber of the state capitol a ripened experience in the problems of communal life, which will certainly have a wholesome bearing on the deliberations of the forthcoming legislature. In these days when our society tends to become ever more complex and bewildering, it is a happy choice of the electorate that brings one so sane of judgment and so well versed in the needs of the people to the councils of our legislative body.
As I rummage back through the pages of memory, I see one of the most alert, vivacious, whole hearted girls it has ever been my pleasure to know, coming from her native village of Pleasant Grove to join the ranks of the earnest students at the old Brigham Young Academy. She brought with her an atmosphere of sunshine, and a wealth of mirth and good cheer which shed its glamour over the whole student body, and made her forthwith one of the most popular students of the institution. She was keen as a student, and sympathetic as a friend, and her soul went out in expressions of kindness and good-will to all alike, regardless of rank or social standing.
That charm of personality and that wealth of human sympathy, which we remember in Amy Brown, the girl in her teens, has characterized the life of Amy Brown Lyman through all the years of her public service to date, and has been enriched by a wide and varied experience in dealing with educational and social needs and meeting emergencies in the lives of the unfortunate.
After her graduation in 1890 with the last class conducted
by the venerable old master, Dr. Karl G. Maeser, she was taken into the employ of her alma mater, and for four years taught in the training school of that institution. From Provo she came to the public school service of Salt Lake City, and attracted attention at once by the efficiency of her methods. No doubt if she had chosen the teacher's profession as her life's work, she would have made a great success of it, as she has the instinct of the real teacher in her make-up.
After her marriage in 1896 to Dr. Richard R. Lyman, then head of the Civil Engineering Department of the University of Utah, and now a member of the Council of the Twelve, she devoted herself to domestic pursuits for a number of years. The home over which she presides has been an ideal one in which love rules, and in which hospitality of a high order has been extended to a very wide circle of friends.
In 1902 Dr. Lyman went on a leave of absence for graduate work in eastern institutions. At the University of Chicago, and at Cornell, Mrs. Lyman took advantage of the opportunities afforded for study, and attended such lectures and class demonstrations as she found congenial in these great institutions.
From her early childhood Mrs. Lyman has been active in Church work, much of which has been along secretarial lines. When she was eleven years of age she was secretary of the Primary Association in her native town, and since that time she has been in constant service in various church organizations. In 1909 she was called to serve as a member of the General Board of Relief Society, and in August, 1913, she was appointed and set apart by President Joseph F. Smith as General Secretary of this, the principal woman's organization of the Church.
This latter calling has given her ample opportunity for the exercise of her talents, and she has spared no pains to fit herself for her calling. She has made a particular study of the various phases of the work, including family welfare and allied social problems. At the beginning of the World War, Mrs. Lyman took the Red Cross Home Service course in Denver, and a year later she spent several months in field work in the Denver City Charity Office. During the period of the war she was a member of the Red Cross Civilian Relief Committee, of the Salt Lake County Chapter, and was engaged actively in the Home Service Department, where she gave liberally of her time in family welfare service.
Her various experiences have given her an insight into civic and social problems, and she has been a force in the various movements, which have for their purpose the betterment of the community. She is a member of the Board of the Charity Organization Society, Vice President of the Board of Trustees of the Community Clinic, and Vice Chairman of the State Welfare Commission.
Mrs. Lyman is a born executive. Her carefully filed and indexed records of the various activities of the General Board of the Relief Society, and her accurate method of keeping their accounts are indicators of the order and system which is a part of her very nature.
As representative of the big Church organization with which she is affiliated, Mrs. Lyman has been several times a delegate to the National Council of Women, once a delegate to the Congress of Women of the United States, and has attended the National Conference of Social Work on various occasions as a delegate of the General Board. In 1921, Mrs. Lyman was appointed by Governor Mabey to represent the State at the meeting of the American Child Hygiene Association.
If there is anything in heredity, Mrs. Lyman has certainly a claim for superiority of birthright. Her maternal grandfather was a graduate of a German university, and her father, who was one of the original band of pioneers of July 24, 1847, was a man of unusual intellect, and mental culture. She is of pioneer stock, and has Scotch, Irish and German strains mingled in her blood. Sociologists have taught us that the mingling of races is productive of the higher types physically and mentally, and Mrs. Lyman in her fine personality and splendid mentality is certainly a verification of this ethnological law.
But the elements of her make-up which have done most to win human hearts, and to hold in a bond of fidelity and devotion all the multitude of friends she has made, are her absolute sincerity, her faith, and her unbounded sympathy for her fellows, whether of high or low estate. People swear by her because they have learned that loyalty and fidelity are a part of her religion.
With such an outlook on life, and such a training and experience in dealing with the intricate problems of social welfare, Mrs. Lyman should make a legislator of the first order.