President Clarissa S. Williams Visits Mexico
President Clarissa S. Williams has visited, recently, the Juarez stake of old Mexico, the first time in eleven years that a member of the General Board of Relief Society has attended a conference of this stake, because of the unsettled conditions of the country during the revolutionary times. President Williams was a member of President Heber J. Grant's party which visited, also, the St. Joseph and the Maricopa stakes. The party was comprised of President and Mrs. Heber J. Grant, and daughter Emily, together with the following representatives of the Church organizations: Elder Melvin J. Ballard, of the Council of the Twelve and the Y. M. M. I. A.; President Clarissa S. Williams, Relief Society; George D. Pyper, Sunday School; Mary Connelly, Y. L. M. I. A.; President Louie B. Felt, and Jane Crawford, Primary Association; Elder Owen Woodruff, a recently returned missionary, was also a member of the party.
The conference was held at Juarez, on November 15-16. Mrs. Fannie C. Harper, president of the Juarez stake Relief Society, and her co-workers were overjoyed with a visitor from the General Board, and particularly in the opportunity of having the president meet with them and address the women of the stake. The meetings were held in the Juarez academy, and the sessions were all inspiring and spirited. The five wards were well represented at the convention, and all the ward presidents were in attendance. President Williams found that the women are devoted and loyal to the Relief Society, and to the Church itself. She reports that the Mexican territory, through which she passed, bears evident marks, in its devastated and desolate appearance, of the revolution.
Preceding the conference in Mexico, the Maricopa stake, in Arizona, was visited on November 11-12. A two-day conference was held at Mesa, and President Williams found the Relief Society organizations of this stake in excellent condition. During the year there has been an increase in membership, and an added interest in the lesson work and the welfare activities. Leaving Maricopa, the party of visitors went to El Paso, Texas, where two meetings were held on November 13. From El Paso, they proceeded by train to Demming, thence by auto to Juarez. En route to Juarez a meeting was held at Dublan on November 14, which was greatly appreciated by the Saints there. The
meeting was held in a house which was built by the Relief Society and which is now the only meeting house in the town. The ward chapel was destroyed during the revolution.
On the return trip from Mexico, a conference of the St. Joseph stake was held on November 18-19, at Thatcher, Arizona. The Relief Societies there are officered by energetic women. It was found that their records and reports are well kept. The conference was successful, and it was evident that a good spirit exists throughout the stake. At Thatcher, President Williams left the party and went to Phoenix to visit her niece, Miss Cheever, of Provo. While in Phoenix, President Williams addressed a Relief Society meeting of the Phoenix ward.
On the trip, President Williams attended twenty-seven meetings and two socials. She traveled 3,400 miles by train and 500 miles by auto. Although the journey was strenuous, she enjoyed the trip very much. She appreciated the opportunity afforded her of visiting these remote organizations, and it was a joy and satisfaction to her to see the women carrying on the work and perpetuating the ideals of the Relief Society.