Dairy Products and Public Welfare
Fred W. Merrill
Note.?This address was delivered at Relief Society October Conference.
I am convinced that I need your sympathy and your faith and prayers because the subject I have to present to you is not entirely in line with the subjects under discussion during this morning's session. The Relief Society has always been an organization that looks after the needs of the people. I come to you this morning representing a body of people who are sorely in need, and I speak for the people of the whole state of Utah.
I need not report the fact that this year has been a strenuous one for the farmers. There has not been a period in many years equal to it and yet we are led to marvel at the success they have had notwithstanding their handicaps. I believe that the greatest pioneer that this century has ever known was acting under direct inspiration when this state was settled, and when people were sent out to develop what seemed then to be the vast resources of the state. Colonies went down into Washington county and into Uintah county and other remote places. Years ago, I used to question the wisdom of the man who sent them there. Now, I understand exactly why it was done. It was the policy and the purpose of Brigham Young and his counselors to put the people of the state in places and conditions where they would be self supporting.
But I am sorry to tell you today that in one industry, which ought to be the chief industry of the state and the one on which we are most dependent, we are not self-supporting. It is a regrettable thing that in the line of dairy products Utah does not produce enough to feed her own people. There is no one industry which touches so closely the health of the people as does the dairy industry. Every home uses, or should use, dairy products. Leading scientists have said that these products have made us what we are, that we owe our intellectual development, our physical development, our development as a state and nation to the fact that we have been consumers of dairy products. I think of no calamity that would be as great as that which would occur if the dairy products should be taken from our homes.
We face the fact, sustained by the evidence that has been gathered by the Commissioner of Agriculture, that in the consumption of the dairy products we are 30 per cent below the average consumption of the 
United States. Dr. Gowans says 40 per cent of the children of the state are not drinking enough milk or eating enough dairy products, and other school officials tell us there is a marked manifestation of malnutrition, which is largely due to the fact that children are not consuming sufficient dairy foods.
If it is true that there is a close relationship between the diet of the people and the intellectuality of the people, as well as the degree of physical perfection attained, and if dairy products go to make up the most satisfactory diet, then the dairy industry is of enough importance to command the attention of the women of this state. Cooperation along this line could not better be obtained than through the Relief Society organization.
We ship into the state every year over one and one-half million pounds of butter and yet conditions are almost ideal in this state for the production of dairy products: the climate is unequalled and our valleys produce the finest kind of feed. We ship into this state one and one-half million pounds of cheese and yet we eat only one-fourth the amount of cheese we ought to eat. Our per capita consumption of this valuable food is less than four pounds, when it should be sixteen. This increased consumption would manifest itself in better growth and greater vitality; it would also result in an economic condition in this state from which we would not have to suffer as we have had to suffer this last year.
If we could have an agricultural program developed in Utah which would admit of large enough production of all these things we need, we should establish a reputation for being self-supporting. There is a market on the Pacific Coast for millions and millions of pounds of dairy products, which ought to be produced in Utah. Los Angeles alone could handle all the cheese we could manufacture in the next twenty years.
In the dairy cow we have a money maker. We find the community which has for its support the dairy cow to be one which is self-supporting. When Commissioner Hinckley first tried to establish the dairy industry he had in mind first of all the general health of the people and then the economic conditions of the state, realizing that Utah must develop an agricultural program which will provide for things most valuable as foods, and thus automatically for a ready market also.
So we are going to ask the Relief Societies of the State of Utah to support us in the development of such a program. We want dairy products produced in every part of the state of Utah; we want people to consume dairy products, believing that it will be for the health and general physical development of the people. Especially we want our children to consume dairy products. The Romans and the Greeks at one time were a great pastoral people, and their great strength lay in the fact that they lived near
to nature. When they left the farms for the cities, deterioration set in and those nations fell. The United States at one time was a great pastoral nation. The people lived in the country. When we first came to Utah we lived in a country environment; we had no cities, we had few food problems. We lived from the soil and I believe we were healthier, stronger, more physically able to carry our responsibility than we have ever been since.
This getting away from natural living conditions has made it necessary for us to meet great problems relating to child welfare and health, and civic improvement, and this people can survive in the end only as their agricultural activities are preserved and developed in a ratio commensurate with development along other lines, and as they keep the commandments of God and live according to those commandments.