Of Interest to Women SOME HELPFUL THINGS TO KNOW Lalene H\. Hart In the fall or spring, when it is not necessary to use ice, a fireless cooker may be used to keep meat, milk, or butter cool. Put the stones out of doors at night to become thoroughly cold; in the morning put them in the cooker and they will remain cool all day. An easy and quick method of cleaning silverware is to use 1 teaspoon of salt and 1 teaspoon of soda to 1 quart of water. Heat in an aluminum pan, place silverware so that it is in contact with the pan. Rinse in hot, water and wipe dry. This does not give a highly polished article but is very effective and saves time. When rugs require beating to remove dust, place them right side down over a pair of bed springs and beat on the wrong side. The dust can then fall to the ground or be carried away by the 36 wind. This method does not injure the rugs as much as when placed over a line. To destroy moths in carpets or rugs, remove dust, then spread a damp cloth over the rug and iron it dry with a hot iron, being careful not to scorch nap. The heat and steam will kill the worms and eggs. Colors may also be brightened by sponging the rug with a strong solution of salt water or ammonia water. Care must be taken not to wet the rug too much. The best bed springs will sometimes rust. It is economy to cover them. An old piece of blanket, quilt, or ticking is good, but a canvas is best, especially for beds on the sleeping porch.' It not only protects the bedding from rust, but keeps the dust and cold from penetrating the under side of the mattress. With a darning needle and cord, the covering can be tacked in place and will not wrinkle. Old blankets make fine summer comforters. When too much worn for use, cover with silkoline, factory, cotton challis, or outing flannel, and tie. The color and weight of material depends on kind of blankets used. Old pillow ticks when washed make good dusters. They may be tied over the broom and used for ceiling and walls. More dusting and less sweeping saves time and energy and is much more sanitary. Gloves or mitts made from bed ticking with an elastic in the band at the wrist, are very serviceable for house work. They. Wear well and are easily washed. A heavy piece of asbestos tacked across the end of the ironing board will take the place of an iron stand and is much more convenient. A "treat box" in the kitchen or pantry may encourage the housewife who is wrestling with her budget. Drop into the box the few cents left from the laundry, the milk, sale of rags or papers, or any small unexpected income. Though few, the cents soon count up and may be used for little extras, surprises, or treats for the family. Children who eat foods which contain the right vitamines in proper proportions, resist colds much more readily than those who do not. "It looks good enough to eat,' has a real value in planning