the new year, it is especially fitting that we renew our faith in the gospel of service and resolve to remain steadfast in the face of rigorous and demanding duty. If we meet each day of the years before us with courage and patience and faith, we can, as we advance in years, look back on our days of usefulness with no regrets and no misgivings. In the evening of our lives, when in retrospect we view the deeds of our active years, can we survey the past with a serene countenance and a sanguine spirit? Will we be able to say, I answered the call of service however I could? I gave myself willingly to the cause of the Master?to loving service and brave living? I prayed and labored, humbly and hopefully, trusting that my reward would be, in this world, the peace of duty well performed and, in the eternal life to come, a place in the heavenly kingdom? W. C. T. U. ADOPTS WORLD PROGRAM The World's Women's Christian Temperance Union convention, held in November, at Philadelphia, adopted a three-year program to carry out the organization's ideals. The resolutions called for work toward abolition of the liquor trade in every land, for the teaching of scientific temperance to school children of all nations, a campaign to urge pledge-signing in all classes of society and encouragement of the compilation and study of scientific facts that relate to the welfare of the race. The W. C. T. U. Pledged itself, through international cooperation, to work for the establishment of world peace. A resolution was adopted urging a single standard of personal purity for men and women, on the ground that the strength of a nation lies in the moral integrity of its people. The Union also pledged itself to continue the work for the political equality of women in countries that have not yet granted. Them suffrage. In the countries where women have the vote it was decided to work out programs to promote the education for citizenship in the affairs of government. In addition, a resolution was adopted urging all the nations of the world to join an international campaign for suppression of liquor sales on shipboard, and copies of the W. C. T. U. Action will be sent to-heads of governments throughout the globe with the request that they place themselves on record for or against "bone dry oceans."