Guide Lessons for March LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in March) GUARDIAN AND MINISTERING ANGELS The Necessity for Guardian Angels. When Satan was banished from heaven he made his way to the earth with his hosts of banished spirits. He evidently knew that none of the valiant spirits from heaven would have any inclination for any earthly existence if the privilege of being "added upon" or receiving bodies could not be obtained. Two of Lucifer's great objectives were the prevention of mortal life and the destruction of that life. To accomplish the first he attempted to have Adam and Eve perpetually separated, and to accomplish the second he has sought by disease, individual strife, and the destruction of war to depopulate the earth. Satan has no respectful regard for God's authority but he stands in fearful and submissive awe of the power that Divinity has for the enforcement of authority. The evil one has reason to know what it means to come in conflict with the angels. See Revelation 12:7-10. The prince of darkness is held in check by the knowledge that the same authority and power which cast one of his spirits out of man and permitted the evil spirits to possess the bodies of swine could banish him and all his hosts from the face of the earth. See Mark 5:1-16. If angels were needed as a power to preserve heaven from the grasps of Satan, how could the children of our Father be expected to survive on earth among the condemned without the protective presence of messengers from on high? Group Guardiansmip. The government of God provides for the meeting of emergencies by having in readiness or subject to call, valiant spirits for the defense of heaven's cause?beings trained in obedience through the law of love and loyalty; beings in whose presence wickedness quails and the emissaries of unrighteousness grow weak. These defenders of righteousness may not be visible, though 42 they be present on earth in multitudes and are part of heaven's power. See II Kings 6:15, 17; Matthew 26:53. Individual Guardianship. Among the duties of guardian angels are private revelation, protection,-comfort, admonition, and a watchfulness of the intentions and actions of enemies. The Angel Moroni, the guardian of the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, revealed the existence and place of deposit to the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Angel Gabriel revealed to her husband the foreordained motherhood of Elizabeth, (see Luke 1:11-20) and this same angel announced to Mary her marvelous mission. See Luke 1:26-36. Some angel with especial interest in the virgin mother's welfare, and undoubtedly by appointment, saved Mary from being misunderstood by her espoused husband, who stood between her and the contumely of society in obedience to Divine instruction. See Matt. 1:18-20. The guardian angel of Jesus was on the alert at the councils of the murderous Herod, read his thoughts, and reported his intentions to the foster father of the Babe of Bethlehem. See Matt. 2:1-14. Satan used his scriptural knowledge of the doctrine of guardian angels in an attempt to ensnare the Savior. See Luke 4:10, and Psalms 91:11. After the temptation was over, angels "ministered unto him." See Matt. 4:11. As to whether these angels witnessed the "temptation" contest as did the friends and the Father of the Redeemer witness the crime of all crimes at Calvary, we do not know, but this we know, that these angels brought the comfort needed by one who had fasted, fought and won. The Value of the Guardian-Angel Idea. A prominent physician in discussing religion made this remark, "I am glad my parents taught me the doctrine of guardian angels; it steadied my early life over many a chasm of temptation. The very idea itself is a protection to youth. "I need no argument to prove to me that to live in thought only with pure, powerful protectors will make of one something more than it is possible to be without the thought." But guardian angels are something more than imaginations growing out of beliefs. They are real, tangible entities whose influence may be felt and whose words may be heard and whose power may be exercised within the field of their appointment. The nursery rhyme, "Lie still, my babe, and sweetly slumber, Haly angels guard thy bed," GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 43 is more than poetry, it is truth?God's truth. And if the mother's eyes were opened as were the eyes of the servant of Elisha she would see by vision what she now sees by faith. Ministering Angels. (By President Joseph F. Smith) "We are told by the Prophet Joseph Smith, that 'there are no angels who minister to this earth but those who do belong or have belonged to it.' Hence, when messengers are sent to minister to the inhabitants of this earth, they are not strangers, but from the ranks of our kindred, friends, and fellow-beings and fellow-servants. The ancient prophets who died were those who came 'to visit their fellow creatures upon the earth. They came to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; it' was such beings? holy beings, if you please?that waited upon the Savior and administered to him on the Mount. The angel that visited John, when an exile, and unfolded to his vision future events in the history of man upon the earth, was one who had been here, who had toiled and suffered in common with the people of God; for you remember that John, after his eyes had beheld the glories of the great future, was about to fall down and worship him, but was peremptorily forbidden to do so. 'See thou do it not; for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book: worship God.' (Rev. 22:9.) Jesus has visited the people of this earth from time to time. He visited and showed himself in his spiritual body to the brother of Jared, touching certain stones with his finger, that the brother of Jared had fashioned out of the rock, making them to give light to him and his people in the barges in which they crossed the waters of the great deep to come to this land. He visited others at various times before and after he tabernacled in the flesh. It was J?sus who created this earth, it therefore is his inheritance, and he had a perfect right to come and minister to inhabitants of this earth. He came in the meridian of time and tabernacled in the flesh, some 33 years among men, introducing and teaching the fulness of the gospel, and calling upon all men to follow in his footsteps; to do the same thing that he himself did, that they might be worthy to inherit with him the same glory. After he suffered the death of the body, he appeared, not only to his disciples and others on the eastern continent, but to the inhabitants of this continent, and. He ministered unto them as he did to the people in the land of Palestine. In like manner our fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, and friends who have passed away from this earth, having been faithful, and worthy to enjoy these rights and privileges, may have a mission given them to visit their relatives and friends upon the earth again, bringing from the divine Presence messages of love, of warning, of reproof and instruction, to those whom they had learned to love 44 in the flesh. And so it is with Sister Cannon. She can return and visit her friends, provided it be in accordance with the wisdom of the Almighty. There are laws to which they who are in the Paradise of God must be subject, as well as laws to which we are subject. It is our duty to make ourselves acquainted with those laws, that we may know how to live in harmony with his will while we dwell in the flesh, that we may be entitled to come forth in the morning of the first resurrection, clothed with glory, immortality and eternal lives, and be permitted to sit down at the right hand of God, in the kingdom of heaven. And except we become acquainted with those laws, and live in harmony with them, 'we need not expect to enjoy these privileges."?Gospel Doctrine, pages 548, 549. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Show that angels were used in heaven to enforce God's authority. 2. What is the necessity for guardian angels on earth? 3. Give an instance of an army of angels guarding a city. 4, Give scriptural proof that reserves of guardian angels ?, are ever ready to come at the call of the Lord. 5. Look up the proof of this statement: "Gabriel is Noah, the first ancestor of our race after the flood." Doc. And Cov. Commentary, p. 623. 6. Name some of the evident duties of guardian angels. 7. What part did a guardian angel play in protecting Mary from public disgrace? 8. Prove from Sec. 3 of Doctrine and Covenants that admonition is a duty of a guardian being. 9, Give evidence that Jesus had guardian angels. 10. Show that guardian angels keep alert to the intentions and actions of the enemy. 11. If guardian angels can read the thoughts of the evil minded when necessary, what about their knowledge of our intentions and actions? 12. To whom is the privilege given to become ministering angels on this earth? 13. Discuss the consistency of leaving the visitation of the dead with the Lord. 14. Of what advantage is it to a child to be taught the doctrine of guardian angels? LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in March) GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 45 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in March) BENJAMIN FRANKLIN Benjamin Franklin lived in both the Colonial and Revolutionary periods of our history. While Jonathan Edwards, the noted Puritan divine, was writing and preaching seven-part sermons, Franklin was composing brief, pithy proverbs that would catch -his reader's eye and fasten themselves upon his reader's mind. Franklin's spirit was very ? different from that of Edwards BENJAMIN FRANKLIN the visions he caught, and the ideas he was interested in broadcasting and promoting, were the very opposite of those that appealed to Edwards. True to the traditions of the Puritans, the great preacher had kept the eyes of the people riveted on God, heaven, and spiritual entities; while Franklin, only three years younger, caught a glimpse of the vast possibilities of life in the material world and urged the development of natural resources. In other words, Franklin's philosophy of life asked, "Why not have a bit of heaven here on earth?" Mr. Payne has condensed the main facts of Franklin's early life in such admirable fashion that we include his paragraph without alteration: "The facts of Franklin's life are well known. The eleventh and youngest son of a soap boiler and tallow candler, he was born in Boston, January 17, 1706. He was sent to school during parts of two years and then apprenticed to the printer's trade under his eldest brother, owner of one of the earliest American newspapers, The New England Courant. Franklin had little formal education, but he was a close student and a careful, tireless reader; and naturally in his trade of printer he soon acquired a good, practical English education. He wrote some brief essays in imitation of Addison's Spectator papers, a volume of which he found in his father's library. During the night he slipped them under the door of his brother's printing shop, and 46 was pleased to find that his 'compositions were deemed wortiy of publication, and that they attracted considerable favorable comment when they appeared in print. "Dissatisfied with the treatment he was receiving at the hands of his brother, Franklin, having been accidentally freed from the bonds of his apprenticeship by a legal ruse of his brother's, ran' away when he was seventeen years old, passed through New York, and landed in Philadelphia, where he found employment in his trade. Everyone knows the story of his ludicrous entry into Philadelphia, as it is-described in the Autobiography. Franklin seems to take keen delight in telling how he walked down Market Street, his pockets stuffed with his extra shirt and stockings, a big puffy roll under each arm, while he was eating a third roll, thus provoking, by his comical appearance, the laughter of Miss Deborah Read, the young woman who afterward became his wife." This is the record of his early life; his later attainments will be brought out as we examine his many and varied activities. He died in 1790 at the ripe age of 84. Franklin was in all probability the most versatile man of the Eighteenth century, consequently he is not unfrequently styled, printer, inventor, statesman, scientist, patriot, philosopher, philanthropist, and writer. He is styled printer because while in England he succeeded in making a study of the most advanced methods of printing practiced by the English. Returning to Philadelphia after a sojourn of eighteen months he bought the Pennsylvania Gazette, and began a publishing business on his own account. He is known as an inventor because he invented the Franklin stove, well known in his day; also the lightning rod. He is classed among scientists because of the knowledge he gave to the world concerning electricity. For his investigations in this field he was held in great esteem, both at home and abroad. Particularly did the European nations value this contribution, and for this reason bestowed upon him many honors of marked distinction. He is revered as a statesman and a patriot because he is the. Only man born in America whose signature is attached to the Declaration of Independence, the Treaty of Alliance with France, the Treaty of Peace with England, and the Constitution of the United States. For eighteen years he did service for the Colonists in England, and for several years as the representative of the new government at the French court he was sought and admired as few Americans have ever been sought and, admired in Europe. Any tourist visiting France today may know something of. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 47 the esteem in which the French hold him, for despite all the upheavals that have taken place in Paris there is still a street that bears his name, and in the beautiful palace at Versailles his statue is yet to be found. When he returned from France he was chosen governor of the state of Pennsylvania and later elected to the Constitutional Convention of 1787. In James Madison's Journal of the Constitutional Convention, we find the following note relative to Franklin's signing the Declaration of Independence. ''Doctor Franklin looking towards the president's chair, at the back of which a rising sun happened to be painted, observed to a few members near him that painters had found it difficult to distinguish in their art a rising from a setting sun. 'I have,' said he, often and often, in the course of the session, and the vicissitudes of my hopes and fears as to its issue, looked at that behind the president without being able to tell whether it was rising or setting, but now at length I have the happiness to know that it is a rising and not a setting sun." He is accepted as a philosopher because of the proverbs of his Almanacs. He has been charged with being too practical and too materialistic in his philosophy; however that may be, his philosophy certainly acted as a balance for the philosophy of Edwards among the Puritans, and Woolman among the Quakers. He was and still is held in regard as a philanthropist because he would not take out patents on his inventions, preferring to give them to the public without restrictions. What we value particularly at the present time is that he founded the Philadelphia Library and the Academy which finally evolved into the University of Pennsylvania. He also founded the popular magazine known as the Saturday Evening Post. Closely allied to his philanthropic work was his work for civic betterment. As a result of his activities the streets of Philadelphia were paved, a police department and a fire department established, and a state militia organized. Franklin is held in repute as a man of letters because of his contributions to American literature. Mr. Page has aptly said, "Although Franklin continued to write under his own as well as under various assumed names, and on a variety of subjects, big and little, it was not until the appearance of his Almanac that he became something of an influence in the colony." Franklin's own account has never been equalled by any who have attempted to tell the tale, consequently we insert for our readers his own story: "In 1732 I first published my almanac under the name of Richard Saunders; it was continued by me about twenty-five years and commonly called, Poor Richard's Almanac. I endeavored 48 to make it both entertaining and useful, and it accordingly caine to be in such demand that I reaped considerable profit from it, vending annually near ten thousand. And observing that it was generally read, scarce any neighborhood in the province being without it, I considered it as a proper vehicle for conveying instruction among the common people, who bought scarcely any other books. I therefore filled all the little spaces that occurred between the remarkable days in the calendar with proverbial sentences, chiefly such as inculcated industry and frugality as the means of procuring wealth, and thereby securing virtue; it being more difficult for a man in want to act always honestly as, (to use here one of these proverbs) 'it is hard for an empty sack to stand upright.' " These maxims were not original, they incorporate the wisdom of the ages; but the phraseology, the thing that carried them over, was Franklin's own. We include a group of them in the lesson, knowing that many of them will be familiar. 1. Be ashamed to catch yourself idle. 2. Drive thy business, let not that drive thee. 3. Light strokes fell great oaks. 4, Three removes are as bad as a fire. 5. He that by the plow would thrive, himself must either hold or drive. 6. Ata great pennyworth, pause awhile. 7. Plow deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep. 8. A plowman on his legs is higher than a gentleman on his knees. 9. If you would know the value of money, go and try to borrow some; for he who goes a borrowing goes a sorrowing. 10. Creditors are a superstitious sect, great observers of set days and times. We conclude with Page's comment on the Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin, which to our mind is well deserved. "Franklin's own story of his life to 1757 is one of the greatest biographies of the world. Written in the form of a letter to his son, for the latter and his descendants only, and with no thought of publication, it has found a secure place among the world's classics. It is a simple, straightforward account of the author's rise by his own efforts from 'poverty and obscurity to a state of affluence and some degree of celebrity in the world.' PROBLEMS AND QUESTIONS 1. What four great state documents had Franklin the distinction of signing? 2. The almanacs contain many proverbs not given in GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 49 lesson, such as, "A stitch in time saves nine." Let each member of the class collect and give as many as she can. It might be a good thing to feature in some way the woman who collects the largest number of Franklin's maxims. 3. Select from those collected a group that you think would tend to make people prosperous and thrifty. 4, Select a group that you think would stimulate industry. 5. What were the things Franklin did to improve living conditions in the city of Philadelphia? 6. When Franklin was at work among' the English printers they called him the "Water American." How does this instance go to prove that Franklin's habits of life were ahead of his time? 7. In the majority of our communities it will perhaps not be difficult to obtain a copy of Franklin's Autobiography. Where it can be obtained, read the account of Franklin's entrance into the City of Philadelphia; where it cannot be obtained, review what the lesson says. REFERENCES Cambridge History of American Literature. Readings from American Literature, Calhoun and MacAlarney. Library of American Literature, Stedman Hutchinson, Vol. III contains 24 selections. Some chapters especially recommended from the almanacs: The Way to Wealth or Poor Richard Improved. Autobiography abstracts: Part I, Chapter I. Franklin's Early Interest in Books. Part I, Chapter II. Seeking His Fortune. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) WHAT COURTSHIP SHOULD REVEAL (Continued) The Religious and Moral Values ?courtship," says Henderson, "if it is honest, upright, Christian, is a series of acts intended to end in the establishment of a family. Ii it is not that, it is false, cruel, selfish, and must end in sorrow of some degree and kind, perhaps in tragedy. * * * For 'love' that is worthy of the name is not a sudden flame of sense but an unselfish principle of devotion, a serious act of consecration. It is a pity that the word which we use as a synonym of religious union with God should frequently be employed to designate the act of vice or the impetuous outburst of animal appetite. This confusion of language tends to confuse thought and conduct to blind, impulsive action.'?Henderson: Social Duties, p. 25-27, 50 The worth of a man cannot be fully appreciated if we take into account merely his inherited powers and his financial success. The proper estimate of a man's or a woman's worth must include a consideration of his or her moral and spiritual power. Besides the desire to promote the moral and spiritual life, it implies active service in the church and a successful home life. Not often do we give to great religious teachers and successful home makers all the credit to which they are entitled. Their true significance comes to light only when they fail to function, when the moral influence of the church fails to reach the people, and when the home does not properly care for the maturing. Child. And yet. The very existence of our civilization depends upon their sincere and humble service. The moral and spiritual values which they produce cannot be easily measured. They can, at least, not be measured in dollars and cents. To those who are contemplating marriage the question of the religious and family interests cannot be ignored. We may safely say that marriage would be a failure were these interests seriously lacking -in either the young man or the young woman. A married life without religion and without home interests would be without the fundamental stabilizing factors. The fickleness of other interests would soon destroy the home. As Latter-day Saints we can see only confusion and sensuality in a married life that does not place the gospel of Jesus Christ and family life on the highest plane in the scale of values. In fact, marriage is for us a religious imperative. The Lord has said' in modern revelation: '" * * * That whoso forbiddeth to marry is not ordained of God, for marriage is ordained of God unto man." Doc. And Cov. Section 49:15. The Religious Interest The religious interest, faith in God, the possibilities of a better world, and eternal life, is the embodiment of the highest ideals of human life. The person who has clearly defined religious ideals and maintains standards which conform to religious life is generally a man who views life with sufficient seriousness to guarantee success. Thus, one of the first things that a young woman should know about a young man is his religious interest. Is he active in the religious life of the community? Does he show -by his efforts that he actually believes in the validity and destiny of the spiritual life. Marnage for Eternity One way in which a man or a woman expresses sincere religious faith is in the desire to marry within the Church and in a temple. Do they regard marriage of sufficient importance GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 51 to justify its being made a sacred union, one that will last throughout eternity? The Lord in modern revelation has made it clear that the great blessings of marriage cannot be realized by those who marry outside of the Church. The commandment reads: "Therefore, if a man marry him a wife in the world, and he marry her not by me, nor by my word; and he covenant with her so long as he is in the world, and she with him, their covenant and marriage are not of force when they are dead, and when they are out of the world; therefore, they are not bound by any law when they are out of the world." Doc. And Cov. Sec. 132:15. If there is any relationship which justifies a sacred ceremony it is that of marriage. To look upon marriage as a mere contract, and that only for life, may be an actual condition. Of divorce. In fact, our Church statistics show that there are fewer divorces among the Latter-day Saints who marry within a temple than among those who marry by civil law. Home Habits and Family Ideals Perhaps the most important information of all is that which concerns the home life of a young man or woman. A man or woman who does not live in harmony with father, mother, brother, or sister in the home of his parents before marriage may have difficulty in living in harmonious relations with his wife and children after he has established a home of his own. There is no place where the real selfhood gives such direct expression of its real character as in the home. Conduct on the street, in church, and at school reveal certain characteristics of a person, but not the complete self. Life in public is in many respects artificial. It expresses for the time being certain common habits and natural inclinations. In the home, where the individual spends a large part of his life, he generally does not try to be anything other than his natural and habitual self. A girl must, therefore, not deceive herself by thinking that her young man is always the perfect gentleman she meets at church, on the street, or in the party. In these places he observes carefully the customs of society, he conforms to conventionalities. If she is to know him as he really is, she must see him living his home life; at least she must find out something about his home conduct. In obtaining such knowledge the greatest care should be taken. Petty gossip and stories prepared by jealous people should be discredited. Friendly association with his parents and with the brothers and sisters of a young man as well as frank conversations with him about his ideals of home life will reveal to a girl more reliable information than can be obtained from 52 friends. In all such matters it is the young man or woman concerned who should take the initiative. Parents can, however, render valuable assistance and should always be ready with friendly and sensible suggestions. The Revealing of Interests in Larger Social Problems It is natural for youth to desire to take part in the great world of affairs, but, because of petty social interests and personal pleasures, many young people have not felt the higher impulse. The young man or woman who is entirely indifferent toward the great social and political problems of our country, state and community lacks the very essentials of good citizenship. A young person of high aspirations should hesitate to marry an individual who is coldly indifferent toward great social questions. It is, therefore, essential to know whether a young man has the ability or the desire to play a real part in solving the social problems which confront us. Will he inspire his wife and children with the spirit of human service, a desire to make the world better? Conversation will reveal these interests very quickly. This is the place where parents may well render service to both sons and daughters. It is a very splendid thing for a father and mother to engage in serious conversation on the political and social questions of the day with the young man who visits their home. When a young man calls at the home he may thus be entertained occasionally quite as well by father and mother as by the daughter. Courtship is essentially the life and problem of youth, but it is also the parents' responsibility to assist in making proper selection in marriages. QUESTIONS 1. How does Henderson define courtship? 2. Why are the religious and family duties of men and women not properly appreciated? 3. Show why marriages which are not directed by religious and social motives frequently result in failure. 4. What significance do the Latter-day Saints attach to marriage within the Church? 5. What reason can you give to show that a truly religious man generally becomes a good husband and father? 6. Is the conduct of a young woman on the street and in church a full indication of what she is in the home? Explain fully the difference between private life in the home and conduct in public places. 7. In passing judgment on the life and character of a young person who has become an intimate friend of your son or daughter, what value should be-attached to second-hand information? GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 53 8. How may reliable information be obtained concerning the home life of a young man or woman? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MARCH. ? USE OF DAIRY PRODUCTS 1. Increase of dairy herds and dairy products may be an important factor in overcoming present financial depression among farmers of the West. 2. The dairy business furnishes regularly, weekly or monthly, cash income to farmers. 3. The people generally may be greatly benefitted by more liberal use of dairy products. They are both cheaper and more beneficial than meat. 4, Every child should have at least a quart of milk a day. Milk is also an excellent food for adults. 5. Butter fat (cream or butter) is one of the most nutritious and healthful of all concentrated foods. Fat in some form, taken with grains and vegetables, is an essential food element. 6. Cheese is an excellent and economical substitute for meat. 7. A more liberal use of all dairy products will promote the health of your family and the wealth of your state. The would like to secure the following Magazines, for which we will be glad to pay 20 cents per copy. Before sending any copies, write the Magazine, stating how many of each you have on hand: January and March, 1916 February and April, 1917 April and December, 1919 January and August, 1921