HEALTH AND DANCING.

	Next to moral and religious virtues,
health should be regarded as the greatest
blessing we can claim from God. And one
of our sacred duties is to prize and guard
this precious boon, as one which through
carelessness or mismanagement, may be
easily and irretrievably lost.
	The indifference shown by many, espec-
ially among the young, to the importance
of preserving health, must be grievous in
the sight of that kind and merciful Father
whose will it is to shower blessings upon
His children. Yet, the majority of sins in
these respects are, doubtless committed ig-
norantly; hence the marvelous goodness
still extended, which preserves life and
prevents injuries in thousands of cases
where unseen or unheeded dangers threat-
en. Still, nature's laws are most impera-
tive and save in instances of special provi-
dence, must be obeyed. In all ordinary
cases they cannot be broken, whether ig-
norantly or otherwise, but the transgressor
must pay the penalty.
	How carefully should our young people
be taught concerning these things! How

[Column 2]
deeply should their minds be impressed
with a sense of the extreme folly and ac-
tual sin of ignoring the laws of health!
They should be brought to learn and profit
by the experience of others, as far as possi-
ble, and not left to risk life and health in
gaining knowledge for themselves. True,
many things can only be realized and un-
derstood through practical experience; but
a great deal that is useful and necessary in
life, the young may obtain by observation,
reflection and giving heed to the admoni-
tions of their elders.
	In the olden times, when our grand-
mothers and great-grand-mothers—of
whose fortitude, ambition and abilities we
hear such wonderful stories—were rosy-
cheeked girls, not a hundredth part of the
gayety and fashionable amusements that
now exist in society were known or even
thought of. Dancing of any description
was but rarely engaged in; round dancing
or waltzing, in this country, was as foreign
to the minds and habits of the young as
the moon is from the earth. It is strange
that young women in these days, who
waste so much strength and vitality in dan-
cing and whirling, should be generally del-
icate in health, never vigorous and robust
as maidens were in days gone by? No, it
is not strange, it is simply a natural conse-
quence.
	Perhaps as great evils have been wrought
for the human family, through the intro-
duction of so much and so many different
styles of dancing as in any other way.
Physicians as well as moral reformers con-
demn the practice of round dancing, some
of them in the strongest terms.
	Young ladies of the present day are not
to blame for the great delight they take in
this most fascinating recreation. They
have not been shown the evil tendencies to
which it leads. Let mothers, and people of
studious thought and reflection come to un-
derstand the nature of these things first;
then teach it to the girls, and see how read-
ily they will listen and comply with those
instructions.
	With many young ladies, waltzing has
become almost like an intoxicating bever-
age to an habitual drinker. When it is pre-
sented to them, it would seem like a great
sacrifice not to indulge somewhat; and
when a little is accepted the temptation to
indulge too far is irresistible. But bring
our girls to realize that there is real danger,
positive wrong in round dancing, and a
majority of them will abandon the prac-
tice forthwith.
	Some of them may be hard to convince,
but surely they are worth laboring with.
Talk to them of future generations, of a
time when they are likely to become moth-
ers—a time for which they should be pre-
paring physically, mentally and spiritually.
Inspire them now with the thought, the
wish (which is sure to come in later years,
perhaps too late) to be among the most cap-
able, noble and honorable of mothers. Tell
them in connection with these things, how
very much depends upon the present care
and preservation of their health and
strength. And tell them in a way that
they must understand, that too much dan-
cing of any sort, now in their early years,
is one thing that is likely to make them

[Column 3]
frail, weakly women all their lives, and
doubtless shorten their days and retard
their usefulness.

	It may be considered by some, that it
should be sufficient to tell young folks
what is good for them and what is likely
to prove hurtful; but this is not sufficient
for most older people. The old as well as
the young, are liable to give too little at-
tention to the care of health, and to violate
the laws of nature. For this reason if for
no other, they should exercise great pa-
tience in teaching the youth.	INEZ.


