	BLOOMSBURG, COLUMBIA CO, PENN,
		March 14, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Perhaps a few lines from this part of the
land may not be uninteresting to your read-
ers. I left my home and loved ones in
Zion on the 7th of Jan., to pay a visit to
my husband's relatives who reside here.
All was new and strange to me, having
been reared in Utah. I had the pleasure of
traveling with our honored Delegate and
his family. Having a desire to see the city
in which the laws of our nation are made,
I accompanied them to Washington. I was
delighted with the beauties of that great
city, but only remained three days and then
came here, where I found a kind, warm-
hearted people. I am treated as well as I
could possibly be if I did not belong to the
"Mormons." There is a liberal feeling
manifested toward our people, although
they do not understand us. They do not
deny but that our principles are in accord-
ance with the Scriptures, still their faith is
not very strong in that good old book.
	I have been asked many questions con-
cerning our faith and practice, all of which
I have endeavored to answer truthfully, to
the best of my ability. I take particular
pleasure in talking on the principle of CE-
LESTIAL MARRIAGE—bearing testimony to
the world that the women of Utah are not
kept, or forced, to live in that order against
their will; that we, as well as our husbands,
know it to be of divine origin, and we
would not desire to abolish it. They some-
times look at me as though they almost
doubted the sense of their own hearing,
and finally come to the conclusion that we
must be differently constituted to the rest
of the world. I tell them "not so;" it is
because we know that God has commanded,
and we are willing to bring self into sub
jection to His laws; and we can, with His
assistance, overcome selfishness, and jeal-
ousy, and be willing for others to enjoy
equally with ourselves; then we can be
happy, loving them and their children.
	I trust I may be the means of doing some
little good in allaying prejudice that has
hitherto existed towards us. I find that
their prejudice is born of ignorance; that
where there is a better understanding of
things the people are inclined to be Just—to
accord to us our rights as American citi-
zens.  I also find that the pure and good
have the least to say condemnatory of our
principles, which is a great proof that we
are right. I believe there are many honest
hearts here, who would obey the Gospel if
the opportunity was afforded them. Many
of them never saw a Latter-day Saint pre-
vious to seeing me. I have many times
wondered why there were never any Elders
sent to this region, for we read that "This
Gospel must be preached to every creature
before the end shall come."


The EXPONENT comes to hand regularly,
and is welcomed as a messenger of light
and peace. Every word that comes from
Zion is fraught with the deepest interest; I
feel that we have just reason to be proud of
"onr little paper," which grows in interest
every year. The Lord is surely with you
in your labors, and may His blessings con-
tinue with you and all who labor for the
spreading of the truth and righteousness upon
the earth, is the prayer of your sister,
