OBITUARIES.

	Died; of pneumonia, on March 24, 1878, at
5 30 a. m., in the 14th Ward, after four days
sickness, Eliza May, lovely daughter of Mary
Ann Ruth May and Jesse W. Fox, Jr., aged 2
years, 2 months, and 14 days. The funeral ser-
vices were conducted by Bishop Thomas Tay-
lor at the residence of Jesse W. Fox, Sen., at 1
o'clock, March 25, and were numerously at-
tended. Appropriate remarks were made by
President Angus M. Cannon and Bishop Rob-
ert T. Burton.

	Died, in the 14th Ward of this city, of mem-
branous croup, on April 10, 1878, at 9.45 p. m ,
John Roy, beloved son of Frankie E. Fox and
John H. Reese, aged 2 years, 4 months and 28


days. The funeral services were conducted by
President Angus M. Cannon at the residence
of J. W. Fox, Sen. Appropriate remarks were
made by Elder Joseph F. Smith.

	Died April 10th 1878, at her residence in
Fairview, Sanpete County, of lung fever, Sarah
Jane Anderson, wife of Archibald Anderson,
and daughter of Thomas G. and Margaret
Davis Reese. Deceased was born in Merthyr,
Tydvil, Glamorshire, South Wales, May 9th,
1844; was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1853, and
has remained a faithful member from that
time. She emigrated to this country in 1856,
crossing the plains in Captain Bunker's Hand-
cart Company. She was married August 23d,
1859, to Archibald Anderson, and leaves ten liv-
ing children, eight girls and two boys, the
youngest 5 weeks old. She proved herself to
be a true Latter-day Saint and a loving wife
and mother. She was a Teacher in the Relief
Society, which position she filled with honor.
She was universally beloved by all who knew
her; too much cannot be said in her praise.
We deeply sympathize with her husband for
his loss.—Com.

	At Mona, Juab County, January 26, 1878,
Mrs. Nancy Harrison, wife of John Harrison,
departed this life, aged 37 years, 2 months and
3 days. Deceased was born in St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England. In the bloom of early wo-
manhood she has passed away, leaving a hus-
band and five children and numerous friends
to mourn her loss. She was an estimable lady,
endeared to all who knew her; she will be
greatly missed, not only by her family but in
the Church, in the Relief Society, and as a
leader in the choir. She endured her long,
painful sickness with singular fortitude; her
habitual cheerfulness and natural sweetness of
disposition seemed never to forsake her. She
was a faithful worker in the Church. In her
early life she received the additional charms
of Christian grace, which shone brighter as
she drew nearer to the light of eternal day.
Her youngest daughter preceded her in cross-
ing the River of Death, and now they rejoice
together in the brightness of the Heavenly
Home.
	I believe that God thus comforts us, by re-
flecting heavenly peace upon the countenance
of death, as if a ray of its light dropped earth-
ward as the pearly gates opened, or as if the
earthly tabernacle heard the "well done" and
smiled; "Thou hast been faithful, take this
crown of radiant whiteness." O will He say
this to me, have I been faithful?
