THEIR MINDS AND MANNERS.

"The reasoning maid, above her sex's dread
Had dared to read, and dared to say she read."

	This quotation, simple as are its words, is
full of historical significance. It shows us that
at that period, about a hundred years ago, wo-
men not only did not read, but if they dared
to do so, must brave the opposition of their co-
temporaries, and even of their own sex. It
was considered superfluous for girls to be taught
even in the common branches of knowledge
thoroughly, but their deportment, their train-
ing for society, their grace of carriage, were of
the utmost importance. There were, to be
be sure, women who possessed, in an unusual
degree, native mental endowments, and conse-
quently attained literary excellence; but even
such ladies did not seem to comprehend that a
higher education would be advantageous for
the sex generally. Lady Montagu, whose
fame is still widely known, in writing of her
niece, gives us a good illustration in proof of
this assertion—"I am glad you intend sending
my eldest niece to a boarding school. What
girls learn at these schools is trifling, but they
unlearn what would be a great disservice—a
provincial dialect, which is extremely ungen-
teel, and other tricks that they learn in the
nursery. The carriage of the person, which is
of great importance, is well attended to, and
dancing is well taught. As for the French lan-
guage, I do not think it necessary, unless for
persons in high life. All the boarding schools
are on very much the same plan, so that you
may place her wherever there is a good air and
a good dance-master."
	This letter was written in 1773, and at that
date MEN were thoroughly trained as scholars
and gentlemen. Ladies were expected to be
graceful, to behave with a subdued dignity
suited to a subordinate position. If by some
natural pro[-]livities any lady became better
informed than the generality of the sex, such
an one was instructed to conceal it, for learn-
ing was looked upon as incompatible with the
requisites of a true lady.
	How materially have the manners and cus-
toms of people changed since that time. And
yet how far moderns still fall short of a true
balance of mind and manners in the education
and culture of women.
	Much of the culture of mind and deportment
depends upon the homelife, the early impres-
sions, the associations of childhood, the atmos-
phere of the surroundings, the tone of the ele-
ments which characterize the mother's train-
ing and influence. These constitute the funda-
mental grounds on which to rear a fabric of
exquisite elegance, beauty and sublimity, or

[Column 2]
that which will continually undermine all the
harmony of outward polish and years of ardu-
our labor.
	We believe that a positive revolution is now
being effected in the culture and education of
women. Very much has already been accom-
plished by women of exceptional ability and
capability, but it yet remains for future exer-
tions to effect a permanent revolution among
all classes, and enlist woman generally in the
noble work of higher culture in all that will
develop the strongest attributes of goodness
and excellence.
	We cannot but believe that religion has a
more deeply cultivating effect than any other
power. It subdues and tranquilizes those pas-
sions which are calculated to destroy and lay
waste the better germs of life and character.
Then however highly cultivated a woman may
be in intellect, or mind, religion will still add
a charm to her character, an enthusiasm to her
inspirations, a loveliness to enhance all other
attributes of her soul. If this be true religion,
founded upon correct principles of faith and
doctrine, how lofty will be the aspirations that
emanate therefrom, how deep the inner foun-
tains, from which flow peacefully those
thoughts and ideas that shape themselves into
harmony, purifying, elevating and refining all
other requisites in the completeness of wo-
manly character.
	The great fear in this age is not so much in
the lack of higher education of mind, for it
would seem woman has now so many opportu-
nities for the cultivating of the intellect, that
all studies which man pursues will ere long be
open to woman; on this point, then, we need
not quibble, neither is it that woman will be-
come neglectful of her husband or children
through the cultivation of mind; what then?
It is that the manners of the present time are
not so perfect as in the time when women were
disciplined more carefully in deportment and
carriage. Every observer knows that there is
a charm in a person whose carriage is easy and
whose address is courteous, and this charm is
intensified, in a very great degree, when it is
associated with a cultivated mind, a tender
heart, and a devotion to God.
	Such women should the daughters of Zion
become; but such women they never will, nor
never can be, without discipline of the most
careful kind. There is a work of exceeding
magnitude before the mothers, the teachers,
the women of Zion, who are desirous of im-
proving and elevating the condition of woman.
This work does not belong exclusively to any
one class, but to all; and it will do good to all;
—a refining tendency will diffuse itself through
the associations of the Saints, if there is here
and there a germ well cultivated. The chil-
dren of the Latter-day Saints, many of them,
not only have good physical organizations and
intellectual capacities, but possess those char-
acteristics which may develop the grandest
possibilities of which the human mind can
conceive.
	Fvery day school, every Sunday school,
every organization for the young people, every
home, should be so conducted as to have an
influence, not only on the MINDS of children
and youth, but on the MANNERS. It is never
too late to begin to do better, and if there has
been neglect of any duty in the past, there is
opportunity given to improve in the future.
We are aware the facilities for cultivation are
not so general as in older towns and settle-
ments, and the Saints have many hindrances
and difficulties which differ widely from the
world, yet, notwithstanding all these, there
might be a vast improvement in the manners
of "our girls and boys," if greater care was

[Column 3]
taken in their training and in the examples of
fathers and mothers.
	In our humble opinion, although it is not a
disgrace to be awkward, yet every school-teach-
er should study deportment, and their exam-
ple in this respect should be such as their pu-
pils can copy.
	We are aware that this subject, like many
others, is inexhaustible, but even a few words
may sometimes set people thinking, and the
result be something more real than words.
	As a people we are proud of our religion, we
feel it is something superior to any other; then
it ought to make the Saints superior in heart,
in mind and in manners. The Saints should
not only be more devoted to God and more
willing and obedient than the world, but they
should be kinder, more charitable, more hu-
mane, more hospitable, more merciful, more
tender, more equitable, more benevolent, more
truthful, more affable, and in their associations
with their fellow-creatures preserve that quiet
dignity of demeanor, that gentleness of man-
ners, that attract the heart and rivet the at-
tention, and demand the respect and admira-
tion of all who are capable of comprehending
true nobility.
	We would not be understood as speaking of
that sort of cultivation which leads women to
despise labor—far from it. All honest labor is
elevating, and any woman may manifest as
much ease and grace in the duty of housekeep-
ing as in the drawing-room. Cultivating grace
of attitude in idle languor is not half so charm-
ing as in those motions and movements that
are necesssry to the labor of a household. Have
not men often been led to praise, even in verse,
the simplicity and grace of manner, of girls
compeled to perform menial services, such as
bar-maid and hotel-waiter. And is there any-
thing sweeter or more lovely than a young girl
full of vigor, neat and graceful, waiting upon
father and mother, or entertaining guests, re-
lieving the mother, tired, perchance, with long
years of care and toil. We know ladies who
have had very few advantages, who are almost
perfect in manners, and draw all hearts to
them, who, by observation and practise, have
learned to converse so well that no one would
suspect how small a part of their knowledge
had been obtained from books.
	We thought to say only a few words to draw
attention to this snbject, but will now conclude
by remarking that such training and discipline
as is good for girls is also good for boys, with
only the differences of some peculiar charac-
teristics easily discriminated by the mother or
instructor. Good manners require thought,
attention, care and practise, and if a little
more consideration was given to this subject,
instead of letting children form their own
manners or go without, there would be an in-
creased degree of good feeling and happiness,
that would add to the general pleasure of hu-
man life.		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


