AN ESSAY ON FAITH.

	We all know that Faith is one of the first
principles of the Gospel, and is at the founda-
tion of all truth. Certainly without faith we
could not comprehend the Gospel, as it is the
leading principle, and by it we draw near unto
God, our Heavenly Father, who is ready and
willing at all times to hear and answer our
prayers, if we go unto Him in faith, nothing
doubting.
	We are living in a momentous period, and it
behooves us to exercise faith, for if we have
sufficient faith we will not be afraid of what-
ever opposition and ridicule we may have to
encounter from the world, for faith enables us
to rely entirely upon our Father in heaven,
knowing that if we are faithful He will sustain
and uphold us in all trials and difficulties.
	When we look upon the so-called Christian
world what a contrast it presents to the faith
of the Latter-day Saints! they claim to believe
the Bible, and say that it is sufficient for their
salvation, and yet they do not believe in the
gifts and blessings which St. Paul said should
characterize the Church of Christ, but tell us
they are done away, and are not necessary in
our day; but we believe differently, for St. Paul,
in comparing the Church to the body of Christ,
says, 1st Cotinthians, 12th chapter, 23d verse:
"For God hath set some in the Church, first,
Apostles, secondly, Prophets, thirdly, Teachers,
after that miracles, then gifts of healing, helps,
governments, diversities of tongues." St.
Paul further says, in his Epistle to the Ephe-
sians, 14th chap., 12th verse, they were "given
for the perfecting of the Saints, for the work of
the ministry, for the edifying of the body of
Christ, till we all come to the unity of the
faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God,
unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the
stature of the fulness of Christ." I would ask,
"Have all come to a unity of the faith? It cer-
tainly does not look so. We all know we are
enabled by faith to lay hold of the promises
which are given us. Let us, then, try to walk
in accordance with the principles of faith,
truth and righteousness in which we are en-
gaged, and fight agatnst sin and temptation,
or anything of a destroying nature, that would
lead us astray from doing the will of our Fa-
ther.		J. F. Q.
	16th Ward, S. L. Oity.


[Column 1]
MRS. M. L. MORRIS
Wishes to announce to her former patrons and others
that she
CLEANS, REMODELS AND DYES
STRAW AND TUSCAN HATS.
LEGHORN made a specialty. Ladies' own material
made up.
Residence—One block west and half a block
south of Court House.

