NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. CAMPBELL a lady lecturer known
to fame, has been lecturing during the past
month in some of the most conservative
old towns of Mass., on Woman's Suffrage.
The Woman's Journal in alluding to the
fact, and speaking of Somerset, said it was
at first doubtful whether the lecture would
receive even respectful consideration. At
Taunton, Mrs. Campbell lectured under the
auspices of the Woman's Christian Temper-
ance Union. "The lady was self-possessed,
spoke eloquently, and commanded close at-
tention." She believes that the ballot would
be better used by women than by men, and 
thinks in the good time coming, when wo-
men help make the laws there will be some
improvement.
	A MEETING in support of the extension
of the franchise to women was held in the 
Temperance Hall, Leceister, England,
March 21st. A large number of ladies
were present. * * The Chairman
in opening the proceedings said they were
there to discuss a serious and interesting
question, which must arise in a highly civ-
ilized state of society, namely the proper
position of women.
	It was moved by one of the leading cit-
izens that a petition in favor of the Wo-
man's Suffrage Bill should be signed by the
Chairman in behalf of the meeting and for-
warded to Mr. Taylor, M. P. for presenta-
tion to the House of Commons. Another
gentleman seconded the motion, and Miss
Helen Taylor, member of the London
School Board, supported the motion as fol-
lows: The main interest of the question
to her was from the point of responsibility.
The Suffrage should be used by women not 
as a matter of right but of duty, and a wo-
man who had been successful in life, and who
said she did not want to vote, had a very
low idea of the responsibility attaching to 
her. There were questions affecting a large
class of women in the country, which wo-
men could understand better than men,
however noble they might be, and upon
which they should be allowed to exercise
their opinions. The interests of the whole
nation would profit by the franchise being
extended to women, and she hoped the
time was not far distant when their prayer
would be granted. Meetings of a similar
character to this have been held recently in
many of the large towns in England and
Scotland. These items were taken from
the April No. of the Woman's Suffrage
Journal of that country.


