BY HANNAH T. KING.
[continued.]

	The Woman of Samaria next appears;
she is also nameless but her conversation
with the Savior at the well, renders her re-
nowned. Jesus had walked a long way,
and coming to the well, which was built up
three or four feet above the level of the
ground, sat upon it to rest himself, while
his disciples were gone into the city to buy
food; while there, a woman comes to draw
water, and Jesus said to her "Give me
drink," the woman saith "how is it that
thou being a Jew, asketh drink of me, who
am a Samaritan?" the Jews having no deal-
ings with the Samaritans. This led to some
remarks from the Savior, and He shows her
that He know her previous life, which calls
forth from her the remark, "Sir I perceive
that thou art a prophet." They continue
talking and at last she said "I know that
Messias cometh, which is called Christ;
when He comes He will tell us all things;"
Jesus saith unto her "I that speak unto
thee, am He!" Then came the disciples,
and were surprised that he talked with the
woman, but no man said "Why talkest thou
with her?" The woman then left her water-
pot and ran into the city and saith unto the
men, "come see a man who told me all that
ever I did;" and many invited him to their
houses, and he abode with them two days.
Here, as is often the case, woman is the in-
strument to convey the first intimation of
the gospel of life and salvation, who like
this woman are nameless, but their names
are written in that Book which has yet to
be opened.
	And now comes another nameless wo-
man: nine verses only, tell this episode of
her life to unborn generations, yet that
brief history has inspired some of the
grandest Italian painters to depict on their
immortal canvass, and to any one who can
realize her position before the Savior, and
His God-like nature, can never behold that
marvelous delineation without their whole
soul being melted, and the deep fountains
of their heart being broken up. There are
the characters, which, stooping down, he
traced in the sand as they recounted to him
her sin. The Scribes and Pharisees were
her accusers, namely that she was taken in
adultery, the penalty of which in the Jew-
ish laws was stoning to death. Without
raising himself up He commanded "Let
him that is without sin, cast the first stone
at her." The woman is drawn in that re-
markable picture, kneeling with her face
nearly touching the ground; her long and
beautiful hair covers her as with a mantle.
The scene is laid at the moment he raises,
himself up, and looking round finds all have
gone out leaving him and the woman alone.
He then says "Woman where are thine ac-
cusers?—have none condemned thee?" she
saith "none Lord;" Jesus saith unto her,
neither do I condemn thee, go, and sin no
more." "Man sees the deed God the cir-
cumstance," probably the Savior might
know some extenuating features of the
case, at any rate he knew well her accusers
were gross hypocrites, and it was not so
much their horror of her crime, as it was
if possible to entrap him in his words, that
they might bring an accusation against
him, for they were ever seeking for his
life; but he beat them with their own wea-
pons in this case; and their own consciences
would not allow one of them to cast a stone
at her. Another phase of the case is, Je-
sus did not come in the capacity of a judge,

[Column 2]
and he was ever careful not to assume an
office to which He was not ordained, saying
on one particular occasion when they sought
his judgment on a certain case, tempting
him, that they might catch him in his
words; "who made me a judge?" These
words should be a mighty key, to all, both
men and women, not to take the judgment
seat unless they have been legally appoint-
ed to that most critical office. Oh! let us re-
member this august example, when we do
so thoughtlessly take the judgment seat
against our fellow mortals, henceforth let
us put our finger on our lips, and wait the
verdict from the rightful judge.
	The next two characters are, as it were,
blended in less than twenty verses of the
fifth chapter of St. Mark. A Ruler of the
Synagogue, Jarius by name, goeth to meet
the Savior, and falling at his feet, according
to the Eastern fashion, besought him say-
ing, "my little daughter lieth at the point
of death, I pray thee come and lay thy
hands upon her that she may be healed;
and she shall live." He seemed to have
just the right faith; and Jesus went with
him, and a great multitude followed him,
so that they pressed upon him; and a cer-
tain woman who had suffered severe sick-
ness for twelve years, and spent all that she
had with physicians and only grew worse,
came in the press behind him, and grasped
his robe, for she said, if I may but touch
his clothes, I shall be healed; and in a mo-
ment she was made whole! The Savior
looked around and said "who touched me?
for I perceive that virtue has gone out of 
me! The woman then fearing and trem-
bling, knowing she was healed, came and
fell down before him and told him all the
truth, when Jesus said to her, "daughter,
thy faith hath made thee whole, go in
peace and be whole of thy plague." No
name, no place of abode, nothing is told
but a woman sick and afflicted an earnest
woman full of faith and full of devotion,
and her faith saved her. I realize that were
the Savior now in our midst, there are
numberless women among us that would do
precisely the same, and meet the same
glorious result.
	The Savior passed on in his labor of love;
soon the friends meet them, and tell him
trouble not thyself the maid is dead; but
he turning to the father saith, "be not
afraid, only believe thy daughter is not
dead but sleepeth," and passed on till he
reached the room in which she lay appar-
ently dead, and taking her by the hand he
saith unto her, "damsel, I say unto thee
arise! and she arose and walked; and he de-
sired them to give her something to eat.
We seem to linger to hear what she said,
what her parents said, what the Savior said
on that momentous occasion; but no, silence
is the only commentary. Yet there is
much food for reflection, even from these
nameless women; and from this brief but
momentous epoch of their lives. One fea-
ture is ever visible throughout the Savior's
mission; his love and mercy, his gentle dig-
nity, his god-like demeanor, most especially
to women, yes, even the erring, that a 
species of worship is called forth by every
act of his deep and earnest life.
	Now I come to the sisters Martha and
Mary, they must not be separated; the very
difference of their characters, seem to
make the bond between them stronger;
many have supposed that the Savior did
not esteem Martha so highly as he did
Mary, but that is not how I read it, the
Scripture says expressly "Now Jesus loved
Martha and her sister, and Lazarus,"—if
the Savior loved once, it was forever; there

[Column 3]
could be nothing fickle or changeable about
him. Martha exhibits a most admirable
character, an exemplary housewife, a most
hospitable woman, blessed is the house
with such a woman at its head; she was the
intrepid soldier of Christ, she had all faith
in him, she worshipped him; she loved to
entertain him; she was exerting herself to
the utmost, even to over exertion, that she
might honor and bless him with the good
of her household; she was probably some-
what over earnest in the ears of the world,
such a temperament can hardly help it, and
who will censure her, when finding she
cannot accomplish all without help she hur-
ries to her sister and finds her lost to all
worldly cares sitting at the feet of her
Lord, and drinking in his gracious words,
his divine teaching, regardless of all else!
Imagine Martha breaking in upon that
rapt audience with the hasty words, "Lord,
dost thou not care that my sister hath left
me to serve alone? Bid her that she help
me." How "malapropos" these words read,
sounds even upon the most gracious ears.
By the mind's eye, I can see that god-like
face raised to hers, and I feel a sweet and
gentle smile accompanied the words, that
have often been deemed a severe rebuke, I
fancy I hear a low sweet voice saying in
low tones "Martha, Martha, thou art care-
ful and troubled about many things, but one
thing is needful and Mary has chosen that
good part which shall not be taken away
from her." Of course there is a gentle re-
proof runs through them, but how sweetly
they might be said, and whom the Lord
loveth He chastenth,, and I know by an
intuition that He did love Martha, she
was probably acting against His wishes, in
making so great an entertainment for him.
but do I fear his judgment of her? Not in
the least, the Scripture says, he loved her
—that is enough—the wounds of such a 
friend are better than the [-]isses of daily
life! The next episode we have in the life
of these sisters of Bethany, is the death
of their brother Lazarus. They sent unto
Jesus, saying "Lord, he whom thou loveth
is sick!" Jesus said to his disciples "This
sickness is not unto death, but for the glory
of God." And he remained where he was
two days; after that he saith to them, our
friend Lazarus sleepeth but I go that I may
awake him, at last he said Lazarus is dead!
and I am glad for your sakes that I was not
there to the intent ye might believe; let us
go to him. Then Martha, as soon as she
heard that Jesus was coming went and met
him, but Mary sat still in the house. Here
we see the characters of these sisters
strongly depicted, the one, full of life and
energy, the other swallowed up by love and
grief—and perhaps hurt that the Savior
had seemed to neglect them in their hour
of trial, by delaying his coming. Martha
in her warm and loving faith, exclaims,
"Lord hadst thou been here my brother
had not died! but I know that whatever
thou wilt ask of God, He will give it thee,"
Jesus saith, "thy brother shall rise again."
Martha responded, "I know he shall rise in
the resurrection at the last day; Jesus said
"I am the resurrection and the life, he that
believeth on me shall never die; believest
thou this? she saith "yea Lord, I believe
that thou art the Christ, the son of God!"
Then she went and called her sister secret-
ly saying, "the master hath come, and call-
eth for thee," and Mary arose, and went
quickly, and Jesus stood in the place where
Martha had met him; as soon as Mary was
come near to Jesus she fell at his feet say-
ing, "Lord if thou hadst been here my
brother had not died." And when Jesus


saw her sorrow, and those that were with
her, he groaned in spirit, and said, "where
have ye laid him? They say, "Lord come
and see" Jesus wept." Then said the Jews
"Behold how he loved him!" They reach
the grave. Jesus commands them to re-
move the stone, here Martha's faith fails
her, she exclaims, he hath been dead four
days and his body is decomposed. Jesus said
to her, "Saidst I not unto thee that if thou
wouldst believe thou shouldst see the glory
of God? Then he cried with a loud voice
"Lazarus come forth!" At the sound of that
Almighty voice, earth had no power to 
retain her prey, and he with grave clothes
bound, awakes to life.
	To be continued.


