NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS MATILDA Hindman is in Colorado
organizing Equal Rights County Leagues,
in advance of the elections. The lady
seems to be having excellent success in her
work.

	THE GOVERNOR of California has recent-
ly signed a bill No 66, to allow women the
right to practice law in that country. A
member of the Senate writes "the good
news in a jubilant spirit." But it was a
close shave; only two majority in a full
house.

	THE EXECUTIVE Committee of the Mass-
achusetts Woman Suffrage Association, at
their last regular monthly meeting, unani-
mously passed a vote of thanks to the mem-
bers of the Legislature who supported by
vote and speech the petitions for Woman
Suffrage.

	THE CALIFORNIA Woman Suffrage As-
sociation held a public meeting at No. 14
Hoppin Homestead Building, San Francis-
co, last week. Miss Rosa E. G. Hazard
read an essay on "Daniel Deronda," which
was followed by a paper on "Gwendolen"
and general discussion.—EX.

	AN ARTICLE in the "Woman's Journal"
of Apr. 20, entitled "Woman's Rights
Means Temperance," contains some very
good logic: after quoting a very touching
paragraph from Mrs. A. Elmore's temperance
article, "Specimen of Work Done Inside,"
the writer, Mrs. Harriet N. K. Goff, goes
on to say, we find no fault with this in-
struction as far as it goes: alluding to "wo-
man's love as a shield," etc., she says,
"But how is the affection of a wife which
simply clings to a besotted husband and
which oozes out the more, the more
he kicks and beats her, to be cultiva-
ted or approved?" She informs us that her
experience has been extensive in the tem-
perance work among all classes, and all goes
to prove that wives and mothers need more
admonitions to inform their intellects and
cultivate personal and mental independence,
than to pour out the wealth of their hearts
—to develop more of the judicious element
in the love they now lavish so freely, and
to become less of the "vine" and more of
the "oak." Mrs. Goff gives some apt il-
lustrations of man's brutality and woman's
deficiences to meet the case, and says: "True
pure shielding love" is just what both hus-
band and wife need, that it must be recip-
rocal; they must work together and not be
continually crying out to each other "hands
off," this is my sphere, keep to your own."


TRUE greatness drapes itself gracefully
with the mantle of humility.


