A WOMAN MISSIONARY COMING.

	Our friends in the East are becoming ex-
tremely anxious about our salvation, they
feel our condition as women citizens to be
so deplorable, notwithstanding our having
the right of franchise, that they are con-
strained to resort to some method of re-
deeming us from the bondage in which we
are bound. They have decided to send us
a woman missionary to show us the error of
our ways, and help to redeem the Mormon
women from their load of sin and degrada-
tion. At the Presbyterian Church on Grav-
el, Hill, at Cream Ridge, Monmouth Co., the
minister informed his flock that he desired
to send out a lady-missionary to convert
the poor deluded Mormon Women, and that
money would be a necessary consequence
of his resolve; a meeting was called for the
sole purpose of obtaining sufficient means
to bring the lady hither on this special er-
rand! What peculiar ideas they must en-
tertain of us as a people.
	How full of Christian philanthropy these
good people must be to appropriate their
means to correcting our errors, and re-
forming our morals. What their ideas
may be concerning us we are not prepared
to say, but presuming from the fact that we
need women missionaries from abroad, one
would suppose they looked upon us as
heathen in our views, and uncivilized in
our social life. Well we shall be very glad
to enlighten their minds on these and oth-
er subjects, through this lady missionary,
and we will guarantee she will go home a
much wiser woman than when she came.
In a country where women have the Suf-
frage, and organizations of improvement
among themselves, where they publish a
paper specially devoted to the interests of
the women of the Territory, where every
facility available is theirs to make use of
for their advancement and progress, it
seems as if they would be wholly capable
of determining for themselves on matters
of religion, and of judging of the true and
false.
	If the good lady comes here honest in
her desires for our spiritual welfare she will


soon comprehend the true position of things,
and it will no doubt place Mormon women
upon another plane in the estimation of
the good people of Monmouth Co., New
Jersey. Every courtesy that could be ex-
tended to us if we went abroad to represent
our views, will no doubt be extended to 
this lady missionary if she comes here in
good faith as a missionary, but, as for con-
verting Mormon women, they have already
been converted to the truth and they not
only believe but know that the principles
they have espoused, including Celestial
Marriage are of God and not of man.
[handwritten] E. B. Wells 			EMILE.


