HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE CORDIALLY welcome, as an exchange,
the "Woman's Suffrage Journal," published
in London and Manchester, and ably edited
by Miss Lydia E. Becker, a lady of superior at-
tainments and a successful champion of wo-
man's cause in the British Isles. Her letter
addressed to us was full of kindly feeling and
liberality. This Journal gives one a correct idea
of the advanced progress of the woman's work
in the British E[-]pire, and of the opinions and
sentiments entertained by men and women on
the popular question of woman's suffrage and
equality of sex, in a country where one wo-
man holds sovereign rule, and has had a peace-
ful and prosperous reign for forty years.


THROUGH COURTESY of Simeon C. Aratoon,
Esq., of Calcutta, Bengal, India, to whom we
return generous thanks, we have received some
books edited, in the English language, by one
of the learned women of that country, Raj
LakshiDebi, wife of BabooProsonnocomar, Sen.,
M. D. "The Gods of Greece, Italy and India"
and "The Chronology of the Hindu's" are the
titles. They seem to be well written, and con
tain many things which are of interest to those
who wish to inform themselves in regard to
customs and traditions of the ancients.
	WE WELCOME to our list of exchanges "The
American Home," published in Chicago, Mrs.
Theodore C. Campbell, Editor and Proprietor.
Several ladies of note contribute to its columns
—"Hyacinth," "Methusaleh," "Aunt Carrie,"
nom de plumes of favorite writers well-known
to the public. There are other contributors of
pleasing style of composition, with whose
writings the public are familiar. This maga-
zine has some pages appropriated to what is
termed a Home Letter Box, in which are some
very useful practical hints on all subjects, and
"lots of fun." There is a serial in course of
publication, and many interesting notes on
gardening plants, in fact, all the different de-
partments of home life, recipes for cooking,
advertisements, etc., etc. The paper is in its
second volume.
	WE HAD the pleasure of a call from Miss Isa-
bella L. Bird, of Edinburgh, Scotland. The
lady is traveling for the benefit of her health,
and while making the tour of this continent
has been taking notes by the way, anticipating
publishing a book of travels. After visiting
California and the adjacent country she ex-
pects to sail for Japan. She expressed herself
as pleased with the city, and surprised at the
wonderful improvement made in so short a
time, drew a favorable comparison to other
towns in the West that she had visited, and 
commended our people for their industry and
enterprise. She spoke of the neatness of the
cottages and their surroundings, as in striking
contrast with the squalor and untidiness of
those she had seen in many towns by the way;
said the surroundings of the dwellings remind-
ed her of the homes of the cottagers in Eng-
land. Miss Bird is an advocate of reform in
dress and economy in the various departments
of home and society. She was anxious to
learn the views of the ladies here on this sub-
ject. She was particularly interested in hear-
ing of the organization we have here for STOR-
ING GRAIN, and looked upon it as a proof that
we practically demonstrated our faith in the lit-
eral fulfilment of prophecy. It is pleasant to
meet ladies of culture, free from predjudice, and
anxious to obtain correct information concern-
ing our general interests as a people.


