A FAREWELL TO EMMA.

	Am I not dreaming? Is it indeed a reality?
Emma, our beloved one, dead! How dearly
we loved her, how fondly we all prized her!
The silvery tones of her voice, her sunny, azure
smile, her sweet, winning ways, her number-
less acts of kindness, live only in remembrance
now. Beloved, darling Emma! our hearts
with grief are laden, and we weep, because
thou art gone; we feel it is hard to give thee
up, so good, so gifted, so loving and true, but
'Death hath all seasons for its own," and we
have no power to stay his hand. He has come,
an unbidden and unwelcome victor, and if we
look at the dark side only our poor human
hearts would break with grief, for we are but
human. But the angel of the Lord will roll
the stone away from the door of our hearts,
and enable us to look up above the tomb to the


beautiful gardens of paradise, where thou art
arrayed in the white robe of immortality; the
golden crown of salvation on thy sinless brow,
and the flaming harp of love—in thy hand, and
through faith we know that a merciful Parent,
a Father of loving kindness, hath called thee
thus early to dwell with the pure forever,
and the thought of thy goodness shall be as a 
healing balm to our stricken hearts. Farewell,
farewell, dear girl, but not forever.

	They have borne thee away, dearest Emma,
		To the silent and peaceful grave,
	Where the fairest flowers of summer
		Above thee will gently wave.
	They have carried away the casket.
		To rest 'neath the dark green sod;
	But thy soul is a brilliant jewel
		In the diadem of God.

	They have borne thee away, darling Emma,
		From the joys and scenes of earth,
	Away from the friends who loved thee;
		For thine own excelmg worth:
	Away from thy young companions,
		To whom thou wast ever dear;
	How oft they will miss thee, Emma,
		In their joyous gatherings here.

	They have borne thee away, precious Emma,
		Earthly love and parental care,
	From thy home and family circle,
		Which cherished thee fondly there.
	They will miss thee from their dwelling,
		Thy gentle and kindly tone,
	At morning, noon and evening,
		They'll watch for the dear one gone.

	How oft will the glittering teardrop
		From our innermost hearts arise,
	As we mourn thy early departure,
		Thou innocent "child of the skies".
	But the thought of thy numerous virtues
		Shall be as a healing balm,
	Which speaks to our murmuring spirits,
		And bids them be peaceful and calm.
	
	We have bade thee adieu, dearest Emma,
		A long and a sad farewell,
	But the memory of thy gooness
		Shall evermore with us dwell;
	And we'll bow to the will of "our Father,"
		He gave and taketh away,
	Holy Faith points a meeting hereafter,
		Through Christ, the truth and the way.
									L. M. HEWLINGS.
Salt Lake City, April, 1878.


