GUIDE LESSONS. 357 source and kept unpolluted. If there is any doubt whatever about the purity of the water it should be boiled before it is used for drinking purposes. Utensils for containing drinking water should be kept very clean. Water may be boiled, cooled, covered and if desired very cold, set on ice to chill. Natural ice, unless known to come from streams or ponds of pure water should not be dissolved in our drinks as many disease microbes are not destroyed by freezing. But as has been suggested, liquids may be chilled by setting them on the ice. Animals should be confined to their proper limits so the home surroundings may be more cleanly and the elimination of flies from the home be more easy. Care and attention to sanitation means the saving of precious human lives. A single fly may menace the health of a whole family and even cause death. One little ordinary fly may carry on him concealed from the natural eye, 100,000 germs. These germs can only be seen with a microscope, but when they find favourable breeding places such as milk, preserves, jelly, or other foods they multiply very rapidly. All foods should be most carefully screened from flies. Foods likely to ferment should be kept in refrigerators or cool places, and not allowed to become stale before using. Milk very readily absorbs impurities from the air or from anything with which it comes in contact such as spoons, cups, pans, etc. Greatest care should be taken to keep the milk pure. When pans are used they should be thoroughly scalded after being washed and then placed in the sunshine. The best way is to keep milk in clean, covered bottles. It should be quickly set away in a cool place and never needlessly exposed to the air. It should be kept cool up to the time of using it, and it should never be exposed to flies. The cause of much sickness among children in the summer, particularly intestinal troubles, is the use of impure milk. That is one reason milk stations are established in big cities where milk can be delivered pure, and where nurses give instructions to young mothers. In country homes where people keep a cow and set away the milk in pans, the greatest care should be taken to have pans, cupboard, safe or refrigerator very clean and cool. The room also should be very clean, with whitewashed or calcimined and bare walls, and no soiled clothing of any kind or old things in storage, should be allowed in the room. Milk or food spilled on shelves will soon contaminate the air. "Where a baby is bottle-fed, every time the feeding bottle and nipple are used, they should be rinsed in luke-warm water, washed in hot water, to which a small amount of washing soda has been added, and then scalded. Never use a rubber tube between bottle and nipple, or a bottle without rounded corners." 
 "If a case of typhoid fever, scarlet fever, diphtheria, or other contagious disease breaks out in the family, do not return any bottles to the milkman except with the knowledge of the attending physician and under conditions prescribed by him." QUESTIONS. 1. What is the duty of the citizen as to public health? 2. Name some of the conditions which contribute to public health. 3. State how the home may be protected from flies. 4. How may the cause be promoted? 5. What about public health committees? 6. What about your drinking water? 7. Is the supply in your place of residence of the right quality? 8. If you can not get the best kind of water what should be done? 9. What about the use of natural ice? 10. What about the care of domestic animals? 11. Tell something about the danger of flies to human food. 12. How should food in general be cared for? 13. Why should great care be taken with milk? 14. State four important facts in caring for milk. 15. What is one of the great causes of summer sickness among children? 16. Tell something about caring for milk in country homes. 17. How should milk be cared for when a baby is bottle-fed? 18. What about milk bottles at a time of contagious disease?
CARE OF THE CHILD. Fourth Week. The child is a wonderful being. From his first sharp cry on entering the world to the end of his period of development, he opens up for us problem after problem. The care of young infants is a matter that receives more attention from the medical profession now than ever before, and the trained sisterhood of nurses that bless the modern communities remove many dangerous pitfalls from the baby's path. The reason for our care and attention which we bestow on our helpless little one is not alone that he may be fed when he hungers, and put to sleep when he is weary, but we also wish him to grow to complete manhood, strong and beautiful to reach; GUIDE LESSONS. 359 maturity, serene, cheerful and happy. Back of the solicitude with which we provide for him pure air, proper food, a clean skin and sufficient sleep, is the purpose of developing a good physique and strong nerves. Incidentally we wish him to acquire a good disposition which shall make the best of life's problems and turn all experiences to some useful purpose. During the second year the principal food must be good, wholesome, cow's milk. After the fourteenth month of age, most healthy children are able to digest milk in its plain, unmodified form an additional food element may now be supplied by the; various cereals; these should be made into a thin gruel or jelly, strained, and mixed with milk. When the little one has demonstrated his ability to digest these articles, he may have a little clear soup, from which the fat has been removed, now and then, as a change of diet; next a well baked apple, stewed prunes and orange juice may by degrees be allowed. As the summer approaches, stale wheat bread, or toasted biscuit which has been dipped in milk should take the place of the gruels, especially if there is any looseness of the bowels. Next he may have a poached or soft-boiled egg. Naturally all these things are not to be given at one meal. The necessity for cleanliness is not the only reason for regular bathing. The simplest and most natural means to insure the healthy activity of the skin is by the daily common-sense use of a very little pure soap and plenty of water, regulated according to the condition of the child. All children should be bathed daily, and the habit of bathing that is usually begun directly after birth should be continued through the whole of the little one's growing life. The person who bathes the child should wear a large apron, made preferably of Turkish towelling. This should not take the place of the large Turkish towel with which to dry the baby. Baby's towel must be thoroughly clean and warm before being used. Be sure to use a table on which to bathe the baby. The eyelids should be carefully cleansed and all secretions removed from the corners, and the eyelashes the ears may be; thoroughly washed, but without sticking any pointed object into their canal. The mouth may be washed with a fine piece of linen and a very weak solution of boric acid. The principal activities of a child are absorbing nourishment and obtaining rest. This principle of sleep or rest may be found in the normal action of every part of the body. Take for example, the heart, which seems to be working ceaselessly but which has a well defined period of rest, amounting to about one-half second between each relaxation and contraction of its muscular tissue. One would be quite exact in saying that during this period the heart sleeps. Objection should be made to the habit of allowing the babe to sleep in one position during the whole night; 
 from the first day of life the child should be placed on its side when sleeping and from time to time should be changed from one side to the other. A child should never be awakened in the morning by any other means than through the natural admission of light into the bedroom. That is the only permissible way of arousing babies and children, thus causing no shock to the tender system. Babies should not be nursed at irregular periods, but should be nursed, bathed and put to sleep on the stroke of the clock. It is difficult to restore health and vitality to a child or a man who has been neglected and maltreated in infancy and early childhood. The child is helpless in the mother's hands. Let her see to it that she attends intelligently and wisely to the needs of her innocent, helpless babe.
QUESTIONS. Why should mothers study the nature and constitution of child life? What is the baby's first requirement? What comes next? What is the safe food for babies under a year old? What diet would you suggest after the first year? How was it with your children? How often should baby be fed? What do you think about babies over six months nursing during the night? Why should a child sleep till nature awakens him? What advantages are there in nursing the baby regularly? In putting him to bed without rocking and at the same hour? How did you train your babies?
EXTENSION WORK IN CACHE STAKE. Cache Stake. In the Cache stake the Relief Society has for some time been conducting an Extension Division for the purpose of doing helpful work along special lines. During the year of 1915, this department raised $196.72 for luncheon served at the County Fair. It also received as donations from clothing firms and individuals $468.57 worth of new clothing, which it has joyfully distributed to those in need. The department also received in donation $300 worth of worn clothing and shoes. This clothing the committee cleaned, altered, mended and pressed before distributing it to worthy individuals. Seventy-five tons of coal was donated to the department by a generous coal dealer and was wisely distributed by the committee.
Current Topics. James H. Anderson. Switzerland is considerably disturbed over frequent violations of that nation's neutrality by German aviators. The Swiss are fortunate in having the violations confined to aerial flights rather than a resort to that which Belgium experienced. The British campaign in Mesopotamia has met with a severe setback in the surrender to the Turks of Gen. Townshend and his army at Kut-el-Amara. Failure to back up with sufficient force this campaign and others attempted in the present war has done more to diminish British prestige as a fighter among the nations than any other event since the American Revolution. Francisco Villa, the Mexican revolutionist and bandit whom the American army pursued 200 miles into Mexico, has made good his escape for the present. An important factor in his successful coup was the story given out by Carranza government officials that Villa was dead, this being an effort to deceive the Americans into a withdrawal of troops from Mexico. Uncle Sam's Aerial Service in connection with the advance of American troops into Mexico was a total collapse, all the machines being put out of commission in a short time. While American editors have been criticising severely Great Britain's aerial war service they have been overlooking a more notable incompetency at home.
Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing announces the opening of its thirteenth school year on Monday, September 18, 1916. School term, 8 months. Course A Entrance fee for the course in Obstetrics, which includes nursing and invalid cooking $50.00. Course B Entrance fee for course in Nursing, which includes invalid cooking $25.00. Course C At intervals during the school year, lectures on Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases, Etc., will be given by eminent physicians, surgeons, and specialists. No charge. Course D A class in Invalid Cooking will be conducted by experts; no extra charge for students taking other courses. Instructor. DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. For further information write to General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah "Utah's Most Popular Music House" English and American SAVE HALF ARCHITECTURE When Buying Your Piano By GEO. M. ALLEN We always have on hand a representative is in Mrs. Horne's Art Book, stock of instruments used as demonstrators, returned from rentals, etc., practically good DEVOTEES AND THEIR as new, but AT ABOUT ? ORIGINAL PRICES SHRINES. Send to this office or Mention this magazine and ask for special list. to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID The Most Interesting, Z. C. M. I. Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections School Shoes of the West For Boys ARE REACHED VIA are made for service Including they will keep the boys' Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon feet warm and dry. Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Z. C. M. I. Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts ALLOVERS Pacific Coast Excursions are the ideal Daily to November 30th play garment For Descriptive Literature, address for boys and D. E. Burley, girls. Cheap, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah serviceable.
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters and sons to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. If the "DAY" has been set Let me sell you the Ring Diamond Rings $20 and up One Quality Only the Best McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Plan Your 1916 Vacation See America's Playground California Special Excursion Rates May 1st to Sept. 1st, 1916 See the Thirteen Hundred Miles of Scenery via the SOUTHERN PACIFIC Half the pleasure of a trip is Planning it For carefully illustrated itineraries Write or call on C. L. McFAUL, Ticket Office Second Floor Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY, 1916. SPECIAL ARTICLES BIRTH CONTROL Elders Richards, MacKay, Whitney and Smith. A PRICELESS GOLDEN WEDDING DAY Prest. Joseph F. Smith, and Mrs. Julina L. Smith. WHEN FIRST WE MET Alfred Lambourne.