Plain Gossip. By Mrs. Grundy. I was sitting with Caroline trying to study out what this here Relief Society would be doing next to keep us on the buzz, when she up and says, says she "D'you get on to that lesson they give us on the Ideal Home?" "Yes, I did," I says, "and I don't take no stock," I says, "in what that there teacher tells 'bout man being the head of the house 'cause he's got more wisdom and virtue than the woman has. And I just snorted, I was so mad when I thought about it." And she says, says she, "Don't get your Irish up over a little thing like that for unless I miss my guess they's more truth than poetry in that same saying." And I snapped back, "D'you mean to tell me that men is more virtuous than women?" "I didn't mean to tell you nothing," she says, says she, "unless you keep your little shirt on and let's talk it out friendly like." Then I ast her again, "Well now, tell me right out. You don't mean for a minute that men is more virtuous than women?" "Maybe not," she says, says she, "when you lump men together like that." "What do you call virtue?" I says. "I call virtue," she says, says she, "right living in most every direction. Do you ever take time to think?" she says, in her most cutting way. "Well, just take time right now, for the matter of doing a little thinking is a powerful healthy thing for women to do and it is what mighty few on 'em do anyway." Then I snorted again and she could see my dander was rising higher than a kite. "But that's not answering my question," says I. "Well then," she says, says she, "just you answer your own question by answering some of mine. Would you say that a man who never had a temptation to drink a glass of beer or whiskey had just as much of the virtue of holding himself in as the man who has been marked with the love of whiskey and just longs for it all the time and yet, don't touch it? More'n that don't you kind of pride yourself on the fact that you top me in virtue 'cause you love tea and don't drink it, when it's no trouble for me to stop drinking it for I never wanted it? Can't you see that, you old blind mole?" "Well, yes," I says, "maybe so, but what's that got to do with virtue?" "I'm coming to that," she says, says she. "Virtue means lots 
 of things besides just keeping the seventh commandment, but we'll come down to cases and talk straight about being chaste but you answer me another question. Do you think your little gal of six years old who never had any temptation to be unchaste is more virtuous and beats her brother of twenty-five who has been on a mission where he has run up against piles of women who would be mighty glad to lead him from the path of virtue?" "Well, but," says I, "President Brigham Young said once, and I heard him, that there'd be no bad women if there weren't no bad men." "Course they wouldn't," she says, says she, "'cause women's just naturally good and don't have to exercise half the bridle on themselves that men do to be just common decent. Just let me tell you one thing, Marthy Ann, and you write it down in your little account book, in big letters. There's nothing will keep a man virtuous except the fear of God." "What do you mean," says I, madder still, "that all the men except the men in our Church can't be virtuous?" And she says, says she: "I don't say nothing of the kind. Men all over the earth who feel God deep down are scared to do wrong and 'cause of that fear they sometimes hold in from doing that which nature prompts them all the time to do. Men's prompted considerable to break the seventh commandment, and women ain't usually much troubled that way 'less they're in peculiar circumstances. Little gals are shielded and guarded by their mothers and fathers and protected by their brothers till they are married and then their husband gives them all the affection they want besides protecting them from other men. You see, Marthy Ann, gals who go wrong usually go wrong because they want pretty clothes, but men go wrong 'cause they're just driven by nature to go wrong. And when boys and men keep from going wrong it's 'cause they fear God and want to keep His commandments, for they are just tempted to go wrong right along, week in the week out, year in and year out. And I say and so does any thinking person, that men who keep themselves from going wrong when they are tempted all the time as they are, are more virtuous than women who don't see much temptations during their lifetimes?not in that way, anyway. Men and women are just made as they are made, that's all." "Well, but," says I, "you know as well as I do," says I, "the reason why women are under men on this earth is 'cause Eve went and ate that fruit and coaxed Adam to do likewise." "O, shucks," she says, says she, "ain't you got no more sense than to think that our Father would just wilfully make a man to boss and a woman to mind 'cause they stole an apple and ate it? Why Marthy Ann, I am surprised at you not having more in your think tank than to bring forward such a fool reason. Why, PLAIN GOSSIP. 337 that story of the Garden of Eden is just a mere telling of a fact that's as eternal and elemental as the Wasatch mountains yes,?and a lot more so. What fool nonsense you'd teach if you tried to make people think that man's place in the household and in life and woman's place also was just fixed for this life only. I don't believe 'Mormonism' in any such a way. You just go home, Marthy Ann, and contemplate, if you can, really contemplate, meditate, consider, think, study it out and you will find that man stands at the head of his house if he is a right, good, pure man, not because he wears pants or 'cause he refused to take the apple Satan begged him to, but he stands there 'cause he is got more wisdom and the virtue of self-control better developed than his wife has and that's not saying that she's not his equal either. 'Cause the bishop stands at the head of his counsellors and has the deciding voice is not proof that the counsellors ain't his equal. You'll find that he has been picked out 'cause they think he is a little wiser and got a little more self-control than belongs to the two brethren they make his counsellors." "But I don't care," I says, says I, "I don't believe, and you can't make me, that my husband's more virtuous than I am. I never looked at another man crosswise in my life and never wanted to." "Well," she says, says she, "maybe this here point is a little too fine for you to see, but you go home and ask your husband if the reason why he never looked crosswise at any gal was 'cause he never wanted to."