A HEROINE. 343 take their peaceful way adown the dusty road of life, meeting its problems as supinely as did the crowds of dogs which gathered about them now in mangy droves of snarling opposition to every hindrance on their way. As the dogs snapped and yowled here and there, plunging now through the crowd of yokels, or mingling in a mass of canine fury to settle some contested canine point, the huge, black dog came back towards them with his awkward but swift leaps, and in an instant there was a mingling of yaps and growls, and the masters fell upon the struggling writhing mass of dog-flesh in the dusty road, and together with the soldier's stout axes laid about their ears, the dogs were separated and went whimpering onwards. But the black dog was evidently not through with his work. He trotted away quietly enough but after him leaped a large yellow mastiff, and they disappeared down the curving way that led to the courts of the Ziggarut. The bedlam of dogs yapped after them more slowly. (to be continued.)
A HEROINE. Her face has not the glow which poets sing, With cheeks of red rose hue, Lips that rival all the cherries' red, And eyes of deeply azure blue. Yet might they sing of dark brown hair, That crowns her face so pure and fair. Her eyes speak peace, of dusky brown, Like dusky pools in ocean deep; Where 'neath the surface, pure and calm, The troubled waters softly sleep. For, though her heart is sore and sad, She smiles that others may be glad. Her face a story tells to me, Of battles fought and victories won, Of one who's humbly learned to say, "Thy will, not mine be done." Her soul through all her deep despair Is calmed and soothed by mighty prayer. To sick and troubled homes and hearts, She's carried hope and cheer; Brought joy and peace to orphaned babes, And taught them, God is near, Who rocks upon her faithful breast, Can say with her, God knoweth best. Lucy Burnham.
Home Science Department. Janette A. Hyde. Perhaps there is no food more wholesome, nor even more valuable than a simple salad, when the blood is sluggish and needs refreshing. A succulent salad of some kind should find its way to the table at least once a day. We find it quite necessary, therefore, to recommend, once more, to our readers the advisability of planting a few of the most important and useful of the vegetables to be used in salad making. In nearly any altitude, where we find our people located, the following vegetables can be raised, and will be helpful for salads Cress, lettuce, sorrel, endive, romaine, chicory, escarole (dandelion greens), young beet greens, spinach, celery, cucumbers, and tomatoes. Any of these form the basis for salads, and may be served with pure olive oil, a little lemon juice, or vinegar, paprika (sweet red pepper), and a little salt. Fresh fruits, such as oranges, bananas, peaches, pears, cherries, etc., may also be used with the salad greens. These form a wonderful combination and a healthful change. Green vegetables and fruits are a natural tonic, rich in the much-needed mineral salts, as well as that mysterious substance called vitamines. This substance is now considered one of the most important of food elements. The green vegetables cleanse the blood, stimulate the appetite, and act as a mild laxative, and are more efficacious and natural than using pills, or any artificial spring medicine. Pure olive oil is nourishing food, supplying fat in the best and most easily digested form. It acts also as a laxative. Lemon juice slightly stimulates the liver, and is a better acid for daily use than vinegar. A little Worcestershire sauce, A-1 sauce, catsup, horseradish, grated onion, a few capers, chopped, sweet pepper, etc., may be added to the salad dressing. These all serve to increase the flow of the gastric juices, which is so essential to digestion. Meat, fish, or nut salads should be served with a properly prepared and cooked mayonnaise dressing. This salad has its value as a nourishing food, but should not be used in place of the lighter green vegetable and fruit salads. The more substantial salads serve as a complete luncheon or supper dish, and if served as such, with the proper accompaniment, are enjoyed and easily digested by most people. The green or fruit salad should be served only as a part of, or as a finish to, a meal. Plain salad is always served in Italy with HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 345 the meat course, no potatoes or other vegetable accompanying the meat. The success of salad depends upon the crispness and freshness of the vegetables and fruit to be used also the method of; making the dressing, and the wise choice of dressings for the salad at hand. One cannot be too particular in washing and cleaning the greens to be used, as they are not sterilised by cooking. It is quite essential to keep the vegetables in ice water or in the ice-chest until ready for use, then drain and wipe dry with a clean towel. The standard salad dressings are French, mayonnaise, or cooked dressing of some kind. All others are varieties of these. The boiled dressing is a cheap and inexpensive substitute for mayonnaise. Easter Salad. Ingredients 1 bunch new green asparagus, cooked 1 large orange 1 egg, hard cooked 1 head lettuce French dressing Time: Preparation, 15 minutes. Number served 4 persons. : Have ready the asparagus, which has been carefully cooked, drained and chilled. Cut the orange into four slices, crosswise; remove the pulp, making four orange-skin rings. Divide the asparagus into four portions slip the stalks through the orange; rings, and arrange on individual plates on a bed of crisped lettuce. Pour over French dressing, dust with the egg, chopped very fine, add a sprinkling of chopped parsley. Serve very cold. A good salad to serve with cold ham or tongue for luncheon or supper. Pineapple Dressing. Ingredients 6 tablespoonfuls pineapple juice 3 level tablespoonfuls granulated sugar 1 level tablespoonful butter 2 eggs beaten 1 level tablespoonful cornstarch Time: Preparation, 15 minutes. Number served, 4-6 persons. Mix all ingredients carefully together, and cook over boiling water, stirring constantly, until the mixture is smooth and begins to thicken. At serving time, add three-fourths cupful of cream, whipped. To be used with a fruit salad. 
 Cream Mayonnaise. To a quantity of stiff mayonnaise, add an equal quantity or less of whipped cream. This dressing should be used the day it is made, and kept in the refrigerator until it is ready to be served. Excellent for chicken, Waldorf or nut salad. French Dressing. Ingredients 1/4 level teaspoonful salt 1/4 level teaspoonful white pepper 1 tablespoonful vinegar or lemon juice 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil Time: Preparation, 5 minutes. Number served 4 persons. : Add the oil to the salt and pepper mix well.; Add the vinegar or lemon juice, beat until thoroughly emulsified. This may be easily and quickly done by shaking in a bottle, and many prefer to do it this way. Chopped chive or a few drops of onion juice, or Worcestershire sauce may be added if desired. Russian Dressing. To one cupful mayonnaise, add one tablespoonful, or more, of tomato catsup and nine olives finely chopped. Strawberry Salad. Ingredients 1 head chicory or escarole 1 box large strawberries 6 slices pineapple (canned) A few chopped pistachio nuts Cream mayonnaise Time Preparation, 30 minutes. : Number served 6 persons. : Wash chicory and crisp in ice-water. Wash and hull berries; stand in refrigerator until cold. Arrange chicory on individual plates, placing a slice of pineapple in the centre of each. Cover pineapple with berries, top with cream mayonnaise, garnish with nuts. If berries are sour, sprinkle lightly with powdered sugar before placing in refrigerator. An excellent luncheon or supper salad. Cooked Dressing. Ingredients. 1/2 level teaspoonful salt 1/4 level teaspoonful paprika 1 level tablespoonful cornstarch HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 347 1/2 cupful cream 1 egg yolk 3 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar, or 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice Time: Preparation, 10 minutes. Number served 4 persons. : Mix the cornstarch with the cream add seasoning cook; ; over boiling water until the mixture thickens, stirring constantly. Add the egg yolk, slightly beaten, and cook a moment longer. Remove from fire, add vinegar, mix well, cool, and it is ready to use. If it is impossible to get cream, use milk, and add one teaspoonful melted butter after dressing is cooked. Roquefort Dressing. Mash a small quantity of Roquefort cheese and stir through a well-made French dressing. Serve on lettuce hearts. Mayonnaise Dressing. Ingredients Yolks of two eggs 1/2 level teaspoonful salt 1/4 level teaspoonful white pepper Lemon juice, 1 tablespoonful, about Vinegar, 1 tablespoonful, about Olive oil, 1 cupful or more Time: Preparation, 20 minutes, about. Number served 6-8 persons, or more. : Have all ingredients and utensils very cold. Put the yolks into a bowl or mayonnaise mixer add salt, pepper mix.; ; Add one teaspoonful vinegar mix again. Now add, drop by drop, ; and beating all the while, sufficient oil to give the desired amount of dressing. As the mixture thickens, alternate with a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar. With care, almost a pint of oil may be used. By following directions carefully this dressing should not curdle. If it does, start again with a clean bowl and another egg yolk. After adding a little vinegar and oil, add, slowly and stirring constantly, the curdled dressing, and the final results will be good.