Granite Stake Relief Society Cantata. The Granite Stake Relief Society gave so unique and so charming an entertainment on their Annual Day, that they were invited by the General Board to repeat the whole program on the evening of April 5th, that our visiting stake officers might attend in a body as the guests of our Board. So inspiring and original was the conception, so pleasing and successful were the results, that our readers will be glad to hear the whole story. The original inspiration came to the President of the stake, Mrs. Leonora Taylor Harrington, about a year ago, when she called her workers together and asked them to prepare an entertainment that should be descriptive of the origin and growth of the Relief Society. Many ideas were suggested, but the plan of writing a cantata, to be accompanied by a set of historic tableaux to be given by each ward, was finally adopted. We give here the program PROGRAM ANNIVERSARY DAY. 1. Selection Orchestra Invocation. 2. Cantata, "The Opened Door"...Relief Society Organisation. Words, written and arranged by Lucy M. Green Music composed by Ida H. White and Lucy M. Green. 1 The Story Mrs. Louise Y. Robinson 2. Organ Prelude, "Darkness" Ida H. White 3. Chorus, "For behold, darkness shall cover the earth"... Relief Society Choir 4. Chorus, "The Lord Shall Arise" Choir 5. Solo, Soprano, "Arise, Shine, for Thy Light is Come"... Mrs. Luella F. Sharp 6. Solo, Contralto, "The Key is Turned"...Miss Violet Felkins 7. Trio (double), "With Heavenly Inspiration" Mrs. Myrtle Doelle, Miss Annie Woodbury, Johanna Goebel, Miss Pearl White, Miss Theresa Horne, Violet Felkins 8. Solo and Chorus, "Blessed is he that considereth the poor" Mrs. Sharp and Choir 9. Soprano Recit., "Kindness, Love, Charity" Mrs. Luella F. Sharp 10. Duet, "Gentle Words" Mrs. Myrtle Doelle, Miss Annie Woodbury 11. Duet, "The Glory of God is Intelligence" Miss Johanna Goebel, Annie Woodbury 
 12. Chorus, "Blessed are They" Choir 13. Chorus, "Song of Rejoicing" Choir Mrs. Ida H. White, Organ. Miss Edith Horne, Piano. Mrs. Lucy M. Green, Director. Recitation Mrs. George Goff Ladies' Quartette, Mrs. Ida White, Pearl White, Theresa Horne, Violet Felkins. Tableau. 1. The First Relief Society Waterloo Ward 2. Five Presidents, 1843 to 1916, Emma Smith, E. R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba Smith, Emmeline B. Wells Farmers Ward 3. Woman's Greatest Mission, "Motherhood" Wilford Relief Society Activities. 4. The Teachers' "Musical Tableau" East Mill Creek 5. The Wheat Gathering Miller 6. Relief Society Nurses Parley's 7. Art Sugar 8. Genealogy Emerson 9. "Saving the Babies" Richards 10 Relief Society Aiding the Nations Burton 11. A Twentieth Century Relief Society Forest Dale 12. Watch for last tableau (something good) Mrs. Mary M. Silver, Ellen R. Clark, Eliz. Allan Dancing. The words of the cantata illustrate the thought of the author in placing before the hearers the processional history of this greatest of all of women's movements. The music was exceptionally good. When it is remembered that it was prepared by two women who have had but the most elementary training in music, and little in harmony and composition, the whole cantata is a marvel of achievement. The numbers were all attractive and melodic, while the rendition was superior in every sense. Sister Green, who handled the baton, showed herself a musician of great native ability. The orchestra was a pleasing feature of the work and the white-robed choir of ninety voices, of whom forty-eight were grandmothers, was a delightful vision. Professor B. Cecil Gates, who attended the entertainment for the purpose of hearing the cantata, expressed unusual pleasure at the rendition and at the music itself. He stated that it was a remarkable achievement, the music being melodic and gracefully conceived, and as a type of the old-fashioned and simple cantata form, the piece merited much praise, and he could recommend it to all our local choirs. GRANITE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CANTATA. 323 The leader and author of the cantata, Lucy May Hilton Green, was born with a love of music and especially Church and sacred music. From earliest childhood she was in the Sunday School choirs and naturally graduated into the Church choirs. She was born in England, married to Thomas E. Green, in 1901. They have one son. She joined the Church in Glasgow, Scotland, and at the age of 15 was set apart as secretary of the Relief Society of Glasgow. She led the singing and when out with the elders helped in their street meetings. She was secretary and chorister of Jordan stake Primary Board for two years, and has LUCY MAY HILTON GREEN. IDA HORNE WHITE. acted in every one of the organisations. She was a singer in the Salt Lake Temple Choir for years. She has had some vocal training and piano lessons in her early teens, but has always been singing in Church choirs and oratorio societies. She came to Utah in 1897. She has been chorister of the Granite stake Relief Society for eleven years. Mrs. Ida Horne White, who composed the music, assisted by Sister Green, has also been engaged in musical matters since her childhood. She was organist in the Primary when quite a child, and was ward organist for over twelve years, when she was called as the organist of the Relief Society of Granite stake. She studied piano with Mrs. Agnes Dahlquist Beckstrand, of this 
 city, and had some elementary harmony and piano lessons with Professor Alfred M. Durham of the Murdock Academy. She also had vocal lessons from Madam Swenson. The wonder is not that women could produce such work, but that in spite of all their many cares and burdens and with so few opportunities, these sisters have persisted in their struggle for achievement and have succeeded. The story of the development of the Relief Society was told by Mrs. Louie Y. Robinson, whose recital was interesting and whose manner was dignified and appealing. The story showed that the lady had spent a great deal of time and effort in securing her facts and items, and her share of the program was indeed one of the most important parts. The tableaux were artistically conceived and most beautifully developed. They certainly surpassed anything of the kind ever given locally. We thought the one on genealogy was the best of them all, yet others preferred different ones, and when all were so good it would be invidious to make decisions. We trust our sisters everywhere will appreciate this suggestion for the development of our musical and artistic growth.