CURRENT TOPICS. 353 Salt Lake City schools have been given a new superintendent?Ernest A. Smith of Meadville, Pa. On the part of the people, there is much criticism of the city board of education, on the basis of a popular impression that a bonafide resident of Utah, be he ever so faithful and competent in the school system service, has no prospect of recognition or promotion under the existing control of the city system. The American Embargo Conference, in antagonising President Wilson's attitude against German submarine methods under the guise of working for peace, seems to be only one step farther removed from national treachery than the Sinn Feins of Ireland. Loyal Americans of whatever political party, uphold the President in his insistence on the humanitarian treatment, under prevailing international law, of unarmed neutrals. President Wilson sent a note to the German government advising the latter, in effect, that unless German submarine warfare against unarmed merchant vessels was stopped, official relations on the part of the United States with the Teutons would be severed. That the Germans regarded the note as having more of emphasis than of meaning in its language is shown by the kaiser's reply, which diplomatically lays a foundation for further argument. Revolt in Ireland of approximately 20,000 members of the Sinn Fein and Larkinite societies, who have been permitted by the patient internal policy of Great Britain to arm and drill for war in professed sympathy with a separate Irish nationality, cost the lives of several hundred people and the destruction of much property in Dublin, the central scene of the fighting, before the rebellion was brought under control. The Irish people generally disapprove of the revolt, and regard it as treasonable to the existing government in a marked degree, now that the latter is at war with the Teutonic allies in Europe. Wolfe Von Igel, secretary to Captain Von Papen, former military attache to the German legation at Washington, has been arrested in New York for violation of United States neutrality laws. The German ambassador insists that Von Igel and the papers taken with him be restored, on the basis that the arrest and seizure were made in the German consulate, which technically is German territory the United States officials, however, properly; take the view that a German consulate in the United States is not German territory for the purpose of launching schemes for violating the laws of this nation by promoting armed excursions into another country.