The April Conference. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. The annual conference of the Relief Society was held Tuesday and Wednesday, April 4 and 5, 1916, with representatives from sixty stakes, and two missions. Two public sessions were held, on Tuesday at ten a. m. and two p. m., in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. At the morning session, there were 1,220 people in attendance, and at the afternoon session the number reached 1,556. On Wednesday two officers' meetings were held in the auditorium of the Bishop's Building, when the hall was taxed to its capacity. On Saturday April 8, two special meetings were held in the Bishop's building. The morning meeting was devoted to public health and nurse work, and at the afternoon session Home Economics was the subject for consideration. Both sessions were well attended. The meetings of the conference were presided over by President Emmeline B. Wells. At the opening session Mrs. Wells extended love and greetings to those assembled and expressed her great delight and happiness in the large attendance. She felt thankful for the peace that reigns in our land and expressed the hope that it would continue. Mrs. Wells declared that this is the greatest day that the Relief Society has yet had and urged the members to be diligent and faithful and to place the work of this organisation before any worldly pleasure. The work has increased beyond all expectation and extends now to the islands of the sea and to every place possible where women can meet and organise. She emphasised the importance of the charity aspects of the work and asked God's blessing and protection on all the members of the Society. Mrs. John T. Caine, a counsellor in the Cache stake, responded to the greeting of Mrs. Wells. She said that the women of the Society were not forgetting the charitable purpose for which the organisation was founded, and were but broadening their scope through the study of genealogy, home economics, and theology, while not neglecting the care of the sick, and to look after the poor. Especial mention was made of the Relief Society Magazine, the successor of the Woman's Exponent, and the aid rendered by it to the women in their work. She spoke of the encouragement of temple work engendered by the genealogical study, and the importance of the home economic study. The study of home economics, she declared, was introducing more system into our homes. The modern mother is getting a broader outlook into the affairs of Church and state, and becoming a better 
 companion to her husband, and a better mother to her children, through the work of the Relief Society. The reports of the work in the stakes were given by Mrs. Aggie H. Stevens, of Weber stake Mrs. Alice R. Woolley, of; Tooele; Mrs. Phoebe A. Brough, of Woodruff; Mrs. Louisa B. Benson, of Oneida, and Mrs. Minnie Robinson of the California mission. The speakers all reported the societies of the various stakes in a thriving condition, a spirit of unity and harmony prevailing among the members. Mrs. Robinson mentioned the recently organised Relief Society at Tucson, Arizona, made up of women who have been forced to leave their homes in Mexico because of the war, and told of their faithfulness and interest in the work. Mrs. Benson mentioned the efforts of the Relief Society women to raise over $1,000 for the new stake gymnasium in Oneida, although the membership of the stake organisation amounted to less than one thousand members. Elder Rulon S. Wells, of the Council of the Seventy, was the next speaker. He felt that the women of the Relief Society are wielding a wonderful force and power in the community and that it is their duty to practice holiness thus bettering mankind and bringing relief to those in distress. He quoted the passage in the Doctrine and Covenants which says:"You must practice virtue and holiness before the Lord continually," and said that this means faith in the gospel, remission of sins and the retaining of the Spirit of God. In this world of ours men are striving to gain knowledge of the truth, but are going at it in a wrong way. They are trying to gain it through philosophy and learning. Elder Wells did not depreciate the attainments and learning of the age, but said that as far as finding God is concerned, the wisdom of men is but foolishness. We can only obtain knowledge of him by practicing virtue and holiness. In these words is involved the whole plan of Relief Society work, the sanctifying and purifying of the hearts of men that all may be brought back into his presence. The way back is open to all and the children of men do not have to be philosophers or scholars to find it. It is being found and shown by the women of Zion. Every time Relief Society women answer the cry of distress they are helping in the saving of souls and are developing godlike characteristics. They are loving their neighbours as themselves and are practicing virtue and holiness in the uplift of humanity. The Lord is, therefore, pleased with them and their work. At the Tuesday afternoon session addresses were made by Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings, Counsellor Julina L. Smith, Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, and President Emmeline B. Wells. Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon urged the young women to be THE APRIL CONFERENCE. 311 faithful in attendance at their Relief Society meetings, and valiant in all their labours connected with the Church. She spoke of the wonderful work being done in the Sandwich Islands, and stated that these faithful sisters are looking to us for help and inspiration. She felt that our responsibilities are very great, and urged all to live up to the knowledge we possess. The next speaker was Dr. Romania B. Penrose. Mrs. Penrose spoke of the importance of being cheerful, and helpful to those with whom we come in contact. She felt that it is our duty to be as thoughtful of others as we are of ourselves, and if we desire to hide our own failings, let us be as anxious and willing to hide the failings of others. Mrs. Penrose was followed by Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings, who spoke briefly on Temple Work, and on the importance of living lives that will permit us to enjoy the ordinances and blessings in the holy temples. Mrs. Jennings called attention to the fact that the ideals of the Latter-day Saints are high, and that we should struggle continually to live up to them. Counsellor Julina L. Smith emphasised the need of stricter training in the homes of the young people. In the beginning of her address she paid a tribute to President Emmeline B. Wells and to the late Bathsheba W. Smith, characterising them both as faithful to their work and to the Church. She stated that there are many things which can be taught in no other place as effectively as in the home, such as praying and paying tithes. The Relief Society women should care for the sick and distressed, but their first duty should be to their boys and girls. Mrs. Smith regretted the fact that there is so much immodesty at the present time in the matter of dress. She felt that young girls do not understand how to dress, and that the mothers should impress upon them the importance of being neatly and modestly attired at all times. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams followed in the same line of thought, expressed by the former speaker, emphasising especially the importance of proper chaperonage for young people. She stated that young people must have pleasure and recreation, and that proper amusements should be furnished for them, but parents should not overlook the importance of properly guarding and protecting them in their pleasures as well as at all other times. She mentioned the necessity of keeping moderately early hours, and the importance of parents knowing always with whom their young are associated. She stated that we are responsible for our children. They are the most precious heritages God has given us, and we can never give up the care of them. We should join them in their pleasures and sympathise with them at all times. Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune told of her recent work in the Eastern States mission. While she was there, the New York City 
 and Brooklyn branches of the Society were reorganised and the women had received a splendid start in genealogical work. The extensive libraries of New York City, Boston and Chicago are proving of great assistance in this special work, and the eastern Saints are already planning how they can help the people at home look up their ancestry. President Emmeline B. Wells urged the members of the organisation to place special emphasis this year on the storing of grain, dried fruits, etc. With war going on in so many countries she declared, it is necessary for the women of the Church to be prepared to feed those who come hungry from war-stricken districts. OFFICERS' MEETINGS. Morning session, 10 o'clock. At the two officers' meetings held on Wednesday, April 5, the roll call showed the following attendance General Board:?member, 22; stakes represented, 60 41 by stake presidents and 19 by stake officers, 11 stakes not represented. Two missions were represented, the California, by President Minnie Robinson, and the Northwestern States, by Mrs. Alec Nibley. There were in all 405 officers in attendance. The annual financial and statistical report of the General Society was read by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, with comparisons, explanations and comments. The report showed that the Society is growing in all the branches of its work. Following are a few comparative figures: Membership, 1914, 38,879 members: in 1915, 41,274. (This great increase is due in part to the fact that the reports from the missions last year were not complete.) Number of branches in 1914, 845 in 1915, 1,004. Paid for charitable purposes, 1914, $48,482.12 in 1915, $56,967.31. These funds, it must be remembered, are gathered and disbursed entirely by the local branches. One of the most gratifying features of the report was the fact that though the resources of this great organisation are $536,046.29, its liabilities, or indebtedness, is only $2,004.41. This speaks well for the financial wisdom and business ability of the women of the Society. A lesson on the women of the Bible was given by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, the special subject being Deborah. Mrs. Gates pointed out the essentials necessary in presenting a lesson, the choosing of the central thought, the introducing of the lesson with review questions of the last lessons, and its proper conclusion. She characterised Deborah as a type of modern woman, she being a capable judge, poet and mother in Israel. Especial tribute was paid to her womanliness, and Mrs. Gates concluded the lesson: THE APRIL CONFERENCE. 313 with reading the song of Deborah (Judges 5). The lesson was followed by a discussion. Following is a plan of the lesson as outlined by Mrs. Gates. This plan might be used with profit in connection with other lessons PRESENTING A LESSON. Choose the Central Thought. (a) Too many added thoughts, or side issues will confuse the hearers. (b) Don't cover too much ground. (c) Focus to central thought. Introduce Lesson with Questions. (a) Connect lesson thought with lives and experiences of your hearers. Tell the Story, or State the Lesson. (a) With young hearers, it is sometimes effective to draw from them by indirect questions, the central thought to be presented. (b) Let the central thought be developed rather than told. (c) Give atmosphere and local colour of story, but don't over-emphasise minor points. Conclusion. (a) Fasten the lesson thought through apt quotations, questions, or through a few strong sentences. (b) If your hearers are responsive, let them add personal experiences to show their own application of the lesson. Note. Make the Bible familiar to all Relief Society members. Afternoon session, 2 o'clock. The whole time of the afternoon session was given to a discussion of Relief Society problems, with the following speakers: Mrs. Amanda Bagley, President of Cottonwood stake Mrs.; Addie M. Cannon, President of Forest Dale ward Mrs. Elizabeth Cartwright, President of the Seventeenth ward, and Mrs. Mary B. Horsfall, President of the Ninth ward. Mrs. Bagley stated that she is probably one of the youngest Relief Society presidents of the Church, from the point of service,?and that her stake is one of the youngest the Cottonwood stake being until recently a part of the Granite stake. The first problem of this new stake was the membership. The stake officers, however, united in a determined effort to enlarge the membership and to bring in all available people. Their success in this matter 
 has been remarkable, and was due to the fact that the meetings were made attractive, and that the officers had endeavoured to get as many people as possible interested in the various lines of work and activities. In the beginning only three meetings were held each month, but because of the increased interest, weekly meetings had been established. As a means of being helpful to those in need, this stake, during last summer, canned 1,100 quarts of fresh fruit which was distributed, the Relief Society furnishing the bottles. Another attractive feature of the work, during the last year, was the course of lectures given under the direction of the county physician, at the County Hospital, especially for Relief Society workers. These lectures were given monthly and consisted principally of instruction in nursing, and the care of the sick generally. This stake has a stake sewing committee, and a similar committee in each ward. During the year the ward committees under the direction of the stake committee, prepared numerous articles for the annual bazaar. In order to have attractive, useful and saleable articles, the stake committee furnished plans and patterns and supervised the work. The Stake Board is, at present, preparing a theatrical entertainment which they expect to take to each ward during the year. A nominal price of admission will be charged for the entertainment and the proceeds will be left in the respective wards. Mrs. Bagley expressed the belief that she has the best stake in the Church and the best and most willing workers. Mrs. Addie Cannon stated that two of the hardest problems Forest Dale ward has encountered are, general attendance and weekly meetings. But when she compared the growth of the ward organisation, from the time small monthly meetings were held in a little room 13x16, in a private house, to the present meetings held in a room 31x33, furnished with long tables, commodious cupboards, and all sorts of conveniences, she could not but feel encouraged. It has been a hard matter in this ward to unite the work and business meetings, as so much sewing has been done in the past, but that the matter is being adjusted successfully. One of the chief features of work in this ward is the work that has been done for the needy children. Every effort is being put forth to see that none of the children in the ward are handicapped. The members of the Society are trying to enlarge their own sympathies so that they will be interested in all children. Most mothers are interested in their own children, but it takes a large-hearted and broad-minded woman to be interested in the children of others. There are a great many deserted wives and widows in this ward who are reaping the benefit of this splendid work. THE APRIL CONFERENCE. 315 The sewing meetings are the best attended and much work is accomplished on these days. As much as one hundred yards of material is cut and made up in one day. The finished articles are given away whenever there is need for them, while others are sold at nominal prices. Mrs. Lizzie Cartwright, President of the Seventeenth ward stated that, being less than a year old in the work, she had hardly had time to solve any of the problems she had met. Her first work was preparing Christmas baskets for the needy, which is an established custom in this ward. This year was no exception to the rule. Mrs. Cartwright felt that one of the most important problems is the charity department. To help others to help themselves is the keynote of true charity, and to give help without requiring service in return is often more harmful than helpful. She suggested the possibility of arranging for labour bureaux in the cities in connection with charity work, where people might be assisted to help themselves and where work might be given to others who are really in need, but who are too proud to apply for help. These problems are very hard for a young president to solve, and help and suggestions along these lines would be very acceptable. In her short Relief Society experience Mrs. Cartwright had already met two classes of people, those who prefer to beg rather than to work, and those who are too proud to ask for assistance although they are really in need. The speaker stated that of all meetings in her ward, the work meetings were the best attended. She had, therefore, wondered if it would not be a good plan to allow the members to sew at all the meetings. Mrs. Mary B. Horsfall, President of the Ninth ward, stated that the membership problem was one of the difficulties in her ward that there are names on her roll of many who never attend meetings and never pay dues then there are others who pay dues; and contribute liberally, but who do not attend the meetings. In connection with this, another problem is met in getting the dues collected in January instead of March. In this ward there has also been difficulty in getting the sisters interested in genealogy. The officers, therefore, decided to have stories or autobiographies of the lives of the members given at intervals, in order to stir up interest, and because of the fact that many of the people are from foreign lands and have had unique experiences, this exercise has been very interesting and instructive, and has successfully brought about the end for which it was designed. Counsellor Julina L. Smith remarked upon the subject of devotion to duty in Relief Society work. Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams spoke on the importance of transacting all Relief Society work in a businesslike manner. She instructed the stake presidents to purchase small pasteboard filing 
 cases where all official correspondence and circular letters should be filed for reference. President Emmeline B. Wells, in a few closing remarks, expressed her appreciation for the love and kindness as well as the material gifts and flowers which had been showered upon her by the stakes and wards of the Relief Society on her recent birthday. She also desired to express her thanks, and the thanks of the entire Board, for the beautiful flowers sent to the Relief Society headquarters by the Maricopa stake Relief Society, at this conference time. President Wells left her blessing with all present and hoped that peace would be with us until we meet again, in October. Mrs. Maria T. Goff moved a vote of thanks to the General Board for the luncheons served on Tuesday and Wednesday, between the meetings. The motion was seconded and carried by a rising vote. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Saturday, April 8, 10 a. m. Meeting was held under the direction of the Committee on School Obstetrics and Nursing and Public Health, and was presided over by the chairman, Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings. Dr. Roberts gave the opening address which consisted of instructions on the care of children. She explained among other things, how germs are carried, and that when the mother, who is afflicted with a cough, nurses her babe she should cover her mouth and nostrils with a handkerchief as protection for the child. She stated that babies should sleep alone. Mothers should watch for mouth-breathing. If a child sleeps with its mouth open, the mother should make investigation at once, as this habit causes deafness and other ailments. Babies should nurse every three hours only, during the day, and once during the night. Babies should be bathed on a table rather than on the lap. Boiled water and sterile clothes should be used around the new-born babe. In case of earache, two or three drops of warm water should be put in the ear after which the nose should be blown. For a sprained wrist cold water cloths should be used for four or five hours and the wrist given absolute rest. Adhesive plaster around the wrist will support it. In case a patient is subject to fainting, at the first appearance of symptoms, insist upon her stooping over to pick up articles on the floor. Several repetitions of this will cause the blood to circulate normally. For nose bleed, have the patient hold the head erect, raise the hands. The nurse should then place her knee in the patient's back and have her remain in this posture until relief is secured. A handkerchief or a rolled up piece of paper placed in the THE APRIL CONFERENCE. 317 mouth under the upper lip will also stop nose bleeding. These emergency treatments were demonstrated by members of the Nurse Class. The subject, "Why I am a Member of the School of Nurses," was treated by Miss Mary Young, Mrs. E. E. Jenkins and Mrs. Preston Nibley. Miss Young stated that among the useful lessons she had learned was that of self-control, and the proper attitude to assume under difficult circumstances also the sacredness of the; human body. Miss Young had especially enjoyed the lessons in invalid cooking. She spoke also of the beautiful spirit that had obtained in the school and of the splendid methods used by the teacher in presenting the work. Mrs. Preston Nibley spoke on the importance of this work to the young mother. In her own little family she had been confronted with many new problems, which she approached with fear and nervousness. She felt that her training in the Nurse School had increased her confidence, and she was firmly of the opinion that knowledge dispels fear. She expressed her gratitude to the Relief Society and to Dr. Roberts for the splendid training she had received. Mrs. E. E. Jenkins stated that a great deal of sickness is due to ignorance, and that any study which will help us to understand our bodies and their needs is worth while to ourselves and beneficial to others. She argued that by learning the needs of our bodies, we will learn to be masters of our appetites and will be stronger mentally, physically, and spiritually. Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry gave an address on "The Mother and Child." She referred very feelingly to the birth at Bethlehem, pointing out the lack of material comfort, emphasising the richness of faith and contentment. She spoke of the great responsibility of motherhood, calling attention to the fact that very few mothers realise the possibilities in their own children. Little did the mother of Abraham Lincoln realise the possibilities in the helpless little babe at her breast. Mrs. Dusenberry made a plea for the misunderstood children of whom there are, she declared, seventy-five out of every hundred. She closed her address by reciting Eugene Field's poem, "All Alone." Saturday, April 8, 2 p. m. The Economics Session was held under the direction of the Committee on Home Economics, the chairman, Janette A. Hyde, presiding. The speakers on this occasion were Miss Gertrude McCheyne, who treated the subjects, "Method of Teaching Home Economics in Womens' Organisations," "The Organisation of Housework;" and Mrs. E. D. Ball, who spoke on "The Household Budget and the Business-side of Housekeeping." 
 Miss McCheyne emphasised the importance of choosing for class instructors in this department, young women who are willing and anxious to learn the newest and best methods of home-making, and who have the ability to teach others. At the roll call, it was suggested that, to stimulate interest, sentiments, recipes, quotations, and menus be given by the members, in answer to their names. All work should be practical and illustrative. The teacher should not try to take up too many things in one lesson. She should choose a subject, develop certain points, and be sure that all these points are clear in the minds of the class. In every lesson, there should be some written material required from the class, either written suggestions, or comments on some phase of the work. An interesting change from the regular routine is to have magazine and book articles reviewed by the members of the class. Evening meetings, occasionally, are also helpful in keeping up the interest of the class, as well as the interest of the public. Debates are also profitable and pleasurable. The speaker referred to an interesting debate, held by a Home Economics class on the subject, "Resolved, that it is easier to keep clean a large house, than a small one." Miss McCheyne suggested that the work be made seasonal. There are some subjects that are appropriate at all times, such as care of children, but there are other subjects, which are more interesting at certain times, than they are at others for example;?housecleaning, fruit canning, etc. Miss McCheyne urged that suitable books be purchased in the wards and stakes, in order that more reading may be done. The speaker stated that the organisation of housework simply means system. Common sense teaches us that in order to be efficient in the home, we must have system, everything must be planned and arranged for. Lack of system breeds discontent, and causes old age. In order to have system in the home, there must be co-operation with the children. No work can be organised without co-operation. Meals should be had regularly, and all other work should have its proper time and place. Children should be interested in the appearance of the home, and should be trained early to do their part, by learning to pick up their clothing, and to clean up after their games. Children should be trained early to work. Many mothers lack concentration or brain organisation. They do things in a haphazard manner, and without thought. Such women are always tired. The brain should be trained to save the body, and to help to preserve order in the home. Mrs. Ball explained the Business-side of Housekeeping. She showed how accounts should be kept in the various parts of the home, in order that each might have its proper apportionment of the family income. All business transacted in the home should be written down, and kept for future reference. Looking back, helps THE APRIL CONFERENCE. 319 one to plan ahead. Whenever travelling is done by the family, a careful account of expenditures is invaluable for future reference. The man and wife should co-operate in the planning of the home budget. They should be equally interested in the income, and in the expenditures. In those homes where money is a source of irritation, lack of business methods is usually the cause. The chief objection to the budget system is that it takes too much time. Mrs. Ball declared that where accounts are properly and accurately kept, it takes only three or four minutes each day to carry on the system. The results of the budget system are peace of mind and contentment for all the family. At the close of this session, the assembly adjourned to the Oregon Short Line depot, to visit the Demonstration Train from the Agricultural College, which was side-tracked for inspection. MUSIC. One of the pleasant features of the Conference was the beautiful music which was furnished so liberally by talented musicians. Following are the numbers that were given Violin solo, Romania Hyde, accompanied by Prof. J. J. McClellan Soprano solo Miss Lillie Shipp Soprano solo Mrs. Mabel P. Kirk Soprano solo Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward Soprano solo Master Leo Neibaur Soprano solo Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley Soprano solo Phyllis Pugsley Soprano solo Miss Margaret Dusenberry LUNCHEON. During the noon hours of the three meeting days, light luncheon was served the visitors on the 4th floor of the Bishops' Building by the General Board. CANTATA?GRANITE STAKE. On Wednesday, April 5th, the Granite stake Relief Society repeated its splendid cantata. RECEPTION AT UNIVERSITY. On Monday, April 10, a reception was given by the University of Utah to the Relief Society delegates. Six hundred of our workers called at the University between the hours of 3 and 6. They were served with delicious refreshments, and were escorted through the art gallery, where the Utah State Art Exhibit has recently been placed. As the conference visitors left the City, expressions were heard on every side, that this was the most interesting and valuable conference we have yet held.