MOTHERS OF OUR LEADERS IN ISRAEL. 307 From Boston they went direct to Greenville, R. I., to her sister Euphamia Gillooly. After arriving in Greenville, James Nibley the father, found employment as night-watchman at the woollen mills, and the son, James, and daughters, Mary and Margaret, worked at the looms, while the mother remained at home, caring for her family, while the younger children attended the school in the district. The family remained here five years, and accumulated considerable means, and out of the first money received Jean Nibley paid her indebtedness to the merchant in Scotland who had so generously assisted her family to emigrate. Before their departure from Rhode Island they had saved money enough to buy a good outfit with which to emigrate to Utah, making them independent of any other help and in the month of May of 1860, the family of James Nibley prepared to move west. They joined Capt. John Smith's company of Saints at Boston, in which Karl G. Maeser was a member, travelled west by train to Albany, thence to Niagara Falls and Chicago, from there to Quincy, Illinois, then by boat up the Mississippi river to Hannibal. From there they went to St. Joseph, Missouri, where they took steamer, and sailed up the Missouri river to Florence, or Winter Quarters. The family spent one month at Winter Quarters making preparations for the journey across the plains. At Florence James Nibley bought a new Schuttler wagon, two yoke of oxen, two cows, and a new Charter Oak stove, and about June 19, 1860, left Florence with the company in charge of J. D. Ross as captain. The company made the journey in a little less than three months, arriving in Salt Lake City on the 1st of September. The family of James Nibley were counselled to go north and settle in Cache Valley. Arriving at Wellsville, the father and eldest son, James, began at once to prepare a house to dwell in. They dug a hole four feet in depth, then with a log foundation and a covering of willows and earth, a chimney built of cobble rock, with a piece of carpet hung over the door, the home was completed. This crude cabin served as a shelter to the family of James Nibley, wife and six children that winter. The next year they built a house, aided by the bishop of the town. The mother and children, next day after their arrival, went into the grain fields to glean, that they might provide bread for the coming winter, and after this was gone Sister Nibley went out and did washing for the two following years, receiving for her pay seven pounds of flour a day. In those days the Indians were very troublesome and a fort had to be built for the protection of the new settlers. The two 
 eldest daughters, Mary and Margaret, were married and soon after this the eldest son, James married. The small, but exceedingly rare cook stove they had brought with them from Omaha, was sold for twenty-five acres of land, and after the city of Wellsville was laid out, James Nibley built a good sized log room upon one of the city lots, and later added two rooms, which made them a comfortable home. She raised chickens, made butter and kept an excellent garden. As an evidence of the untiring thrift and industry of this active mother, we are told that Jean Nibley dug potatoes on shares one season and sold her share for $25.00 with which she bought shares in the Co-operative store of Wellsville. Sister Nibley acted as teacher in the Relief Society for a number of years, and was a regular attendant at the meetings. Her son Charles married in 1869, and moved to Brigham City. Henry married in 1879, and the daughter, Euphamia, married in 1880. In December, 1876, Brother James Nibley, the father and husband was stricken with pneumonia and died in nine days after, at the age of 66 years. Sister Jean Wilson Nibley survived her husband twelve years, her daughter Euphamia remaining with her as a faithful companion and nurse. For the last few years of her life she was an invalid. She died in March, 1889, and was buried by the side of her husband in the cemetery at Wellsville. WRITTEN FOR A BEREFT SISTER Edith McClendon. Dear sister, you have been bereft of one you hold most dear Your precious child has gone into another sphere. You had no thought that she would be called away Or you'd have prayed to God to let her with you stay. Ofttimes 'tis best we know not what is designed to be, But silent bow beneath the rod, and answer His decree. We do not know the sweets of life, until the bitter flows, Nor feel the need of light, until the brightness goes.