Keep My Own Kit Linford CHAPTER 2 Synopsis: Irene Spencer, who has been married seven months, goes with her husband Dick to see his family home. Irene, who met Dick in South Africa and has no relatives in the States, is to live in the old home with Dick's Grandfather and _ his young handicapped brother, who have been living elsewhere. The shabby old house repels Irene, and she is worried over her responsibilities in the strange household. RANDAD, this is Irene," Dick said. Grandad might once have been as tall as his wiry grandson, but his shoulders were stooped with many years. A cane hooked over one arm also revealed his age. Otherwise, the few lines in his face accented his dignity. His hair was iron gray, with snow-white streaks running through it. He must have gone gray early like Dick, Irene thought. Grandad took one of her hands into both of his. Sea-green eyes smiled into hers. "Dick has good taste," he said mischievously. "I've always been partial to brown-eyed blondes. Dick's letters have been full of nothing but you for the past year. I'm glad to know you at last, Irene." "Dick told me about you," Irene spoke through a tightening in her throat. "About Davy, and how wonderful you and Aunt Ella have been." "Let's get on with your tour of the house," Grandad _ interjected 114 easily. He was embarrassed by reference to his sacrifices for his grandson. Irene understood, and a warm feeling of kinship with him flooded her. He asked, "Have you been upstairs? Have you seen the solarium? The library? What have you missed?" "Some other time, Grandad," Dick said. "Trene's pretty worn out. You weren't home when we got here, so I took the key from Aunt Ella and we came over just to pass the time. Right now what we need most is something to eat." "No sooner said than done," Grandad nodded. "Your Aunt Ella knew you'd be hungry. She's fixing something now. We didn't expect you until tomorrow." "Dick was so anxious to get home that he didn't stop to make any of the business calls he intended to make," Irene explained. "Then they'll keep, I imagine." Grandad grinned. "Let's go. Come on, Davy." He took the child's hand and drew him out from where he was half-hidden behind him. Dick was startled. He hadn't known the boy was there at all. "Davy! I didn't see you there! How's my boy? Come on over here and let me have a look at you." He stooped down and sat on his heels, his arms extended. Davy retreated further behind his grandfather. Grandad's tone was reassuring. "Tt's your brother Dick, Davy. Home at last. All the way from South Africa." Dick looked up at Grandad. A puzzled frown pulled his eyebrows together. "He doesn't remember me, does he?" "No, not much. He was less than four years old when you left. He knows about you, though. He's known for quite a while that you were coming home. He's been waiting for you. He's just a bit timid." [ RENE was mystified. "How do you know he was waiting? I mean, with his handicap...?" There was a warning fire in Grandad's eye. "Davy is not tretarded mentally, Irene. He's very normal in most ways. We never discuss him as if he can't understand, because he can." Walking to the car, Grandad went ahead with Davy. Dick's voice was low. "Grandad didn't mean to be curt, honey, but you have to know about Davy. He's really gifted in some ways. Grandad's tutored the boy himself because, of course, we couldn't place him in a_ public school, and financially we've been unable to hire anyone else. Grandad wanted to do it. He used to teach at the university. Under the circumstances, he's done wonders with Davy." Irene mused, "When the child looks at you, Dick... Well, I've never seen anything quite like i "I know the look you mean. He used to do that before I left. Get that awful expression on his face. KEEP MY OWN Sort of blank." He drew a deep breath. "I don't know exactly what it means. Grandad could explain it better... Basically, I guess it's a sort of defense, like not speaking. All of it is psychological. We made sure of that. There's not a thing wrong with Davy physically." Davy scrambled into the back seat of Dick's car and took refuge in a comer. Grandad was looking back at the house. After a moment of meditation, Dick spoke. "It's home, Grandad." "Our family belongs there," Grandad said. "In a way, the house doesn't belong to us. We belong to it." Irene was silent, the alien, apart from those who belonged. Dick drew her back into the circle. "When I was just a little fellow Grandad used to recite John Burroughs, Irene. While I was away, it almost seemed I could hear the house itself intoning the same lines." "John Burroughs? I know." " "Waiting. 'That's the one you mean, isn't it?" Grandad asked. Dick nodded. Grandad went on, a quaver forming an emotional undertone to his words: I don't think Serene, I fold my hands and wait, Nor care for wind, nor tide, nor sea; I rave no more 'gainst time or fate, For lo! My own shall come to me. The stars come nightly to the sky; The tidal wave unto the sea; Nor time, nor space, nor deep, nor high, Can keep my own away from me. "That's a part of it," he said after a moment, "the part you probably mean." Dick was obviously moved by the recitation. "Yes."" He touched Irene's rr: 9? Arm. "Coming, honey? "Yes." She glanced back once MOre, HE powerful motor of the car propelled them rapidly away down the wide street, leaving the grand old house alone and quiet again in the protecting shade of the trees that surrounded it. It had waited many years. It was content to wait yet a little time more for the return of its own. "Now, Irene," Grandad cautioned as they turned in the drive leading to the small house, "don't take Dick's Aunt Ella too seriously. She's a bit brusque sometimes, but she means well. When you get to know her, youll think as much of her as we do." "You told me hardly anything about her, Dick," Irene reminded. "She's a distant aunt on my mother's side, honey," he replied. "Grandad could tell you how distant. She doesn't have anybody but us. She was my mother's right hand, and she's kept the family together ever since mother... Since we lost her." Grandad nodded agreement. The cottage was a white jewel, nestled in a setting of trees and grasses that still wore the new-green patterns of early spring. Irene sighed in appreciation. "It's such a pretty cottage," she said. "We've been comfortable here, but it's not like living in our own home," Grandad said. Looking at the glistening white cottage, Irene wondered how anyone could prefer that gloomy old mansion to this. Filla met them at the door. When they had arrived earlier, she had been bathing, and had told Dick where the key to the big house was. Irene was surprised to see that Ella wasn't as old as she had originally surmised. Her hair was rolled into a neat bun high on the back of her head. Her figure was ample and her smile easy, when she chose to bestow it. "It's about time you came back," she said. "Don't you know it's way past lunchtime? Or don't you eat regularly in South Africa?" Dick laughed at her. "People in South Africa are much the same as they are here, with much the same appetites. Something smells good, Aunt Ella!" Grandad led Irene forward. "Ella, this is Dick's wife, Irene." Flla stuck out her hand. Awkwardly, Irene took it. She wasn't accustomed to women — shaking hands. Indeed, handshaking at all was in Irene's eyes, a purely American habit. Ella pumped her arm for a moment, then dropped it unceremoniously. "Glad to know you," she said heartily. "Come in, come in. Everything's ready. I know my Davy's hungry." Davy ran to her, and they led the way to the kitchen. LLA was justly proud of her culinary skills. A thick potato soup with flecks of ham floating atop it was followed by a delightfully crisp spring salad.