VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 48 — "Inasmuch As They Are Faithful They Shall Be Preserved, and I, the Lord Will Be With Them" (D & C 61:10). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, Objective: To emphasize the fact that the Lord's protecting spirit gives the faithful strength to meet life's problems. The scriptures are filled with promises that those who remain steadfast and faithful to the Lord's commandments shall be protected and preserved. David the Psalmist said, "the Lord... Forsaketh not his saints; they are preserved forever' (Psalms 37:28). The great general and prophet Moroni in the Book of Mormon declared, "God will support, and keep, and preserve us, so long as we are faithful unto him" (Alma 44:4). There are both physical and spiritual aspects to the Lord's promises and assurances that the faithful will be guarded, saved, and _preserved. In some _ instances, the faithful will be protected and preserved against physical harm. This was the meaning of this promise given by Moroni. More frequently, however, this promise has had a spiritual rather than a physical meaning. The statement given above by David had this more enduring meaning. He spoke of the faithful people being preserved not just in this life but "forever," It is this broader meaning that the Savior emphasized when he said, "Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it" (Luke 17:33). Obviously, when one loses his life, as indicated in this scripture, he is not preserved and _ protected physically; yet as the Savior has promised, if one loses himself, and even his life, in the service of others, and thereby in the Lord's service, he preserves his soul and gains eternal life. Over and over again the Savior emphasized the divine fact that saving one's soul is infinitely more important than preserving one's life. "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" (Mark 8:36). To be preserved in a_ spiritual sense means to be delivered from evil; to be shielded by the Lord's spirit; to be secure and firm in our convictions of the truth. It means to be sustained and upheld in righteousness and to possess one of the Lord's choice gifts, the blessing of peace of mind. Temple Bailey, in an impressive story, tells about a young mother who set her foot on the path of life and wondered if the way would be long and hard. Her guide said to her, "Yes, the way is hard and you will be old before you reach the end of it, but the end will be better than the beginning." In this story the young mother faced her problems with faith and confidence, but as her children grew, illness came into their lives and there was sorrow, and the way was stormy and dark. 'The children were filled with fear and uncertainty, but they came to their mother with confidence and she covered them with her protective mantle of love. Then the mother said to her guide, "These days are even better than the brightness of the sun, for now my children have learned courage." This story continues with the experiences of trouble and _ affliction through which the mother and her children learned the true meaning of faith and love and the need for the constant assurance of the Lord's protective spirit. 'hey learned that with faithfulness through life's experiences, both bitter and sweet, the Lord helped them to develop the qualities which preserved _ their spiritual strength, and thus they came to realize that the end was better than the beginning. President Hugh B. Brown said: Men sometimes labor under the false impression that reverses, disappointments, tragedies come only as the result of sin and disobedience.... The trial perhaps may come... To teach some of the great lessons of life. And so we must remember that the winds blow and _ the rains beat upon the house that is built upon the rock. The promise is not exemption from the storm but that they who shall so build shall have strength to withstand it (Eternal Quest, pp. 247-248). We will not be spared from the problems of life and we may not be spared from some of its tragedies. But, the Lord will give us his protective spirit as a_ shield. His strength will become our strength, and, if we are truly faithful, we have no need to fear, for we can have the Lord's comforting spirit to be with us and his assurance that our souls will be preserved throughout this life and throughout eternity. NOBLE THOUGHTS Think noble thoughts always. They are the seeds of noble deeds, and the flowers that they bring make for happy hours and sweet memories. —Pauline Bell