The Relief Society Magazine - June 1967, Vol. 54, No. 6

Eastward From Islands Margery S. Stewart Bind me with your winter wheat Fields under the austere cliffs. Hold me by all chains Of remembrance and duty, Lest I, seduced by beauty, Live as the hibiscus for one day. Remind me of eternity, Pierce my eyes with splendor Of all precepts and all holiness, So, wounded and broken, I return, Nor among thorn hedge burn In the glowing ashes gray. Lash me with bitter winds, Scar me with grinding hours, So I live to see morning Rise like a shout among cloud rifts, Sun melting ice drifts And the dark chains away. Break me with burden and bond. Dissolve me not With summer and sound.

The Cover: Mount Hood, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Farm Scene in Colorado Photograph by Arizona Photographic Associates

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

How thrilled I was to see a picture of my mother and her co-workers in the Note From the Field from Sydney Stake (Australia) in the February Magazine. It has been eight years since I left my home, but some of the faces were still familiar. I would like to thank my mother for sending me a gift subscription to the Magazine.

Nita Ehmann Olsen Ogden, Utah

I have now received my fourth issue of The Relief Society Magazine, which has been a great source of strength to me, and adds much happiness and wonderful ideas to a newly married couple.

Julie Tall Marshall Orem, Utah

I wish to express my appreciation for all the work that goes into our Magazine. My mother gave me a year's subscription when I married, and I have very happily renewed it twice since. As we presently live thirty miles from the nearest church, I am unable to attend Relief Society, and miss both the lessons and the fellowship of the sisters. Last year I was homemaking leader and organist. Now I find that the Magazine helps to fill the gap that exists in my week, and I am glad to be able to study the appropriate lessons. I was thrilled to read the address by Elder Harold B. Lee in the January issue, and I took his counsel to my heart.

Jeanette Miller Verona, Tasmania, Australia

We thought my picture was so nice (hobby feature, October 1966) that my husband rushed out and got a nice little frame for it. I have received many letters, even from people not of our faith, saying how pleased they were to see it.

Hestella Kuttler Pocatello, Idaho

402

A friend sends me The Relief Society Magazine. This has gone on for years. What a gift it is! I am not of your faith, but I enjoy this publication. It is so refreshing to read stories, editorials, and poems that stand for what is basically good and beautiful. I especially like Dorothy Clapp Robinson's stories.

Mrs. Wm. A. Hopper Boise, Idaho

I have just finished reading the wonderful story "Tell Me of Love" (serial, concluded in February 1967), by Rosa Lee Lloyd, and must tell you how it has inspired me. The Ridgehaven family was such a credit to their Church and to their country, that the story has actually helped me to face my own life and its problems with new courage. Seldom have I read a story with so much verve and suspense. I am sure everyone is looking forward to Mrs. Lloyd's next appearance in the Magazine.

Marva Cain Memphis, Tennessee

When the hustle and restlessness of modern living patterns are broken down to a minimum, I take joy and pleasure in reading The Relief Society Magazine. Here in the mission field, one doesn't have much time for literature concerning life and the sublime incidents which occur therein, and so I always take pride in the Magazine, for it lends me renewed spirits and disposition.

Elder Markus Zimmer Berlin, Germany

The Relief Society Magazine certainly has added much to our home. There are many, many wonderful suggestions for keeping an orderly home, with the love, understanding, and beauty of the gospel.

Darla J. Berl Typens, Pennsylvania

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$4.95 Here is the gospel plan in its plainness and also in its majesty. The book is based on a course of gospel achievement taught successfully in southern California for several years. Inspirational reading — and a thought provoking course of study that will make a rewarding summer project. TEACH ME by Dorthea C. Murdock A book every mother needs for the summer months to help her keep the children amused and constructively busy. Originally created for use in Relief Society nursery classes, this enchanting collection of stories, games, make-it projects, etc., has found a wider use in homes. Every page is full of fun ideas children will really appreciate. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Please send me: (] TEACH ME SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 771 SO. MAIN ST. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA (] PLEASE SEND ME CHARGE ACCOUNT INFORMATION account [J. Total amount of purchase $.....00. 00.2... Which includes 3%% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, and 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. I enclose check / money order [] OR, please charge my established June 67 RS. 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL (J REASONING, REVELATION and YOU! Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah BENEFICIAL LIFE ~ Snucarce a Company

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from T3 size-cap overflow) ===
ng her mother's death, Ray plunged into her University studies. Keeping busy helped to fill the deep void caused by this untimely tragedy. The year 1898 was Ray's final one at the University, terminating in her being graduated in June with a B. A. Degree. She was one of six in that year's graduating class. When school closed, she traveled to Cincinnati where she enrolled in the College of Music and studied piano. Growing homesick for her friends in the West, she returned and accepted a teaching position in the Madison Elementary School in Ogden, Utah. On her first day of teaching, the principal followed her into the 410 Emma Ray Riggs McKay room and introduced her to the class. Then he pointed to a little boy who was sitting on the right side of the room and remarked aloud, "Miss Riggs, you might have trouble with that boy down there. He has been a disciplinary problem ever since he entered the class. Now, if you have any trouble, you just send him to me and we will see that he behaves himself."' She noticed that he colored with embarrassment as he slumped down in his seat. She felt sorry for him. After the principal left, she took time while the pupils were studying to write a note. As she walked down the aisle, she slipped this note into the little boy's hand unnoticed by the rest of the class. On the note she had written, "I don't believe what the principal said about you. I am sure you are a fine boy and that you will give me your best this year." Later, his mother told her that he took the note from his pocket for her to read and said, "Be sure to return it, Mother, because I want to wear it next to my heart." He was cooperative all that year. He grew to be one of Ogden's outstanding citizens, a fine man. Just before he was released from his mission, David O. Received an appointment by mail to teach at the Weber Stake Academy in Ogden, which he readily accepted. The courtship which had begun at his missionary farewell blossomed through correspondence, and was continued in earnest for a year and a half after he returned from Scotland, in August 1899. One colorful autumn afternoon under a graceful umbrella tree, he proposed to her in Lester Park in Ogden. She was thrilled, but answered, 'Are you sure you want me?" "Yes. I am very sure," smiled her sweetheart. They became engaged. It was some months later, January 2, 1901, when David O. Called for Ray in his horse-drawn hack to drive her three blocks to the Salt Lake Temple. Here they were married by Elder John Henry Smith to be companions for eternity. "Though it was crisp, zero weather, our hearts were warm and we didn't feel the cold," Ray recalls. Following the ceremony, they drove back to the home of her cousin Bell White to complete last-minute preparations for that night's reception. The next day the happy couple traveled on the old Bamberger Electric train to Ogden. They visited at David O.'s Aunt Mary's, hitched the team to their fringed surrey, and drove to Huntsville where they started their married life. They have been considering each other's needs and problems ever since. From the first, Ray knew that a successful marriage has to be worked for, not just in the first six months of wedded bliss, or the first five or ten years, but each day the couple are together—forever. 

411 June 1967

 Photograph by C. R. Savage A year prior to their marriage, David O. McKay had been called to the Weber Stake Sunday School board and later became second assistant to Superintendent Thomas B. Evans. In this community, also, he was well established in his teaching career at Weber Academy, so they made their first home in Ogden at 2247 Monroe Avenue. In April 1902 he was appointed principal of Weber. While her husband was busy with his responsibilities as the academy's chief executive and a stake auxiliary leader performing his Church duties, Ray was concerned not only with the problems of bringing children into the world and of rearing them in an atmosphere of love and kindness, but of being a loving companion to her husband as well. During 093) eee many miles in a horse-drawn so she could be with her young husband and encourage him as he visited wards in the area on speaking assignments. "I have a husband who wants me to be with him and I am glad to do what he wants me to do at all times," was her resolve. "It warms my heart when I look down in the audience and see her sitting there," her husband has said repeatedly. HOW SHE TRAINED HER CHILDREN When Ray sat in the congregation and first heard the announcement of her husband's appointment as a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles at the April 1906 general conference, she began to cry. Though her joy was great at this deserved honor and recognition of his spiritual worthiness and leadership capabilities, she knew in her heart that this important assignment would require him to spend considerably more time away from her and their little ones. In the 412 b Emma Ray Riggs at the age of twelve her early married life she traveled buggy holding a baby on her lap Emma Ray Riggs McKay years that followed, he did have to spend two and three weeks away from home for stake conferences, for the General Authorities traveled by horse and buggy. But she was equal to her increased responsibilities as homemaker and mother, teaching her children to be prayerful, helpful, honest, thoughtful of others, and faithful in their Church duties. Mothers ask "How did she rear her children?" The following are some incidents in their lives. LL meet the needs of their growing family, a larger house was built on 676 Twenty-first Street which served as home from 1904 to 1920. The children were trained to help in the home. One of the earliest recollections of her oldest son is of helping his mother on washday. She began the laundry process by transferring the overnight soaked clothes into an elongated boiler on the coal stove and boiling them in lye water as she had learned to do as a girl. She then used the handle of a broom, from which all of the paint had been scraped, to move the clothes from the boiler to the washer. Her son turned the washer. It was a great day for him when a motor was attached to the washing machine and he was relieved of this chore. It was his duty, also, to make a fire every morning in the kitchen stove, and, later, in the furnace. Milking and caring for their cow were his responsibilities as well. Sometimes the children helped her pluck the feathers from chickens which had been dipped in boiling water, then dunked quickly in a tub of cold water so the pluckers wouldn't burn their hands while they worked. The cleaned chickens were then singed over a flame to burn the fine hairs, fried to a golden brown, and served on Sundays or for night meals. Sometimes her children churned butter from thick, sweet cream skimmed from the top of their pans of cooled milk. She traded at a little corner grocery store located half a block away, charged each time, then paid the bill at the first of the month. Once, as she was reviewing her charge slips, she noticed several marked "candy." Upon questioning the children, she found one to be the guilty party. Instead of becoming angry and spanking him, she took him firmly by the hand and walked with him to the store. She had him apologize to the storekeeper for charging candy without his parents' permission. This punishment was far more effective to impress the principle of honesty on the youngster than a spanking would have been. She then provided an opportunity for him to earn a little spending money by giving him the responsibility of the white Leghorn chickens they kept in the back yard. He fed them and gathered the 

413 June 1967

 eggs. When his mother had used all the eggs she needed, she allowed him to keep the rest, which he washed and saved. As soon as he had a dozen, he soid them at the store for his spending money. Next door to their home was a vacant lot. One day one of the boys, while in this field retrieving his runaway chickens, stumbled onto someone's stray rabbit. Forgetting the chickens momentarily, he gave chase to the bunny, caught it, took it home, and improvised a pen out of a cardboard box, intending to keep the pet. Noting his activity, Mother reminded him that the rabbit wasn't his. It belonged to somebody else. "Oh, please let me keep it. We don't know who the owner is," pleaded her little boy. "We'll speak to Papa when he comes home." On the principle of honesty the two parents were united in their stand. The rabbit must be returned to the field. In a few minutes the boy re-entered the house still carrying his furry treasure. "Why didn't you let it go?" "T did, but it kept coming back to me," he hedged. Gently, his mother accompanied him to the field and stood beside him as he reluctantly placed the bunny on the ground and watched it hop away. Sensing his grief, she felt as sad as he did. A week later a pair of rabbits was bought and given to him to care for as his own. Every day this son had to walk several blocks to find clover or alfalfa to appease the appetites of his ever-increasing group of rabbits. Across the street lived Miss Seaman, the principal of his school, who grew a large plot of lucerne in her back yard. One day, in his searching, he spotted this plot, so conveniently near his home. He was overjoyed at his good fortune. Crawling through a hole in the fence, he hurriedly picked the tender lucerne, stuffed it carefully into his gunny sack, climbed back through the hole and, with the full pack slung over his shoulder, ran whistling to his hungry pets. This he continued to do. It wasn't long before Miss Seaman, peering out of her window, noticed a neatly cleaned area in her green patch. With diligent watching, she soon discovered the culprit and called his mother on the phone. His mother was humiliated. To think a son of hers would do such a thing! He must go with her to apologize. That was a blow. It was bad enough to have to say he was sorry to the groceryman, but to his principal! This was too much. Though he pleaded, promising never to do it again, his mother was adamant. He gave the apology and was made to understand he wasn't permitted to go into her 39 414 Emma Ray Riggs McKay yard again. His mother instructed him, "If you want rabbits, you'll have to look around for food for them." She could be lenient when the questioned act didn't hurt the child or infringe upon another's rights. She asked one of her boys to go to Miller's Butcher Shop on Washington Avenue, several blocks away, for some pickled onions. On the way home, he tasted one. It tasted so good, he kept eating them. The carton was only half full when he arrived home. His mother remarked, "Oh, you like these, do you?" He was relieved that she hadn't scolded him. "If you obey me, nothing will happen to you."' He was convinced that if he were hurt, it was because he had disobeyed. Once he piled several boxes on top of one another to stand on so he could reach to string some ropes across the room. He was cautioned by his mother to use a chair. Not heeding her advice, he climbed on the tier of boxes and fell, but he didn't cry because he knew he had disobeyed. To help her children develop an interest in things, Ray let them have patches of the garden for their own. With considerable patience, she showed them how to plant pansy and violet seeds, reminded them to water them daily, then shared their pleasure when the tender shoots appeared and the flowers blossomed. Ne morning in March 1916, David O. McKay was severely injured and hospitalized after a serious car accident in the canyon. That night when Ray called one of the boys to eat his dinner, he refused, saying he was fasting and praying for his papa's recovery. The next morning he asked his mother what he could do to help. She suggested he pick a bouquet of his pansies. This he did and walked nine blocks carrying his offering personally to the hospital. This sincere display of affection not only cheered the patient, but was treasured through the years by a grateful father and proud mother. Ray loved to be with her children. One boy remembers he lived only a block away from his elementary school, but, to be able to eat in a hurry to have more time for ball playing, he asked repeatedly if he could take his lunch to school. It would have been easier for her to prepare a sandwich, and have him away for the day, but instead she said, "I would much rather have you come home at noon." "But why?" "Because I just want to see you. I like to have you home." This made him feel that he was wanted and loved. She believed that each occasion shared with the children strength- 415 Sat, ete hth atti fi Soiieotes: a" Emma Ray plays the piano for her husband President David O. McKay 416 Emma Ray Riggs McKay ened her relations with them, so she spent a lot of time with her children. Often she sang to them by the stove in the dining room before the furnace was installed. There were always lullabys to help her children go to sleep. She drilled them with their spelling, or in other ways helped them with their studies. If members of her family were in plays she practiced with them, giving them their cues. At the end of their performances she was always ready to praise, but only when commendation was deserved. If needed, she suggested ways for improvement. ''Now in such and such a scene, we couldn't hear you very well," for example. With her children, too, Ray spent a lot of time teaching them how to read, starting on a primer she had bought entitled The Sunbonnet Babies. She encouraged them to go over and over the pages, sounding out the words, until they knew The Sunbonnet Babies and other books by heart. As a result, they were readers when they entered school and were placed in high first or in the second grade. She also started her children on the piano, and though some of them played other instruments later, she maintained that learning the piano was an important foundation upon which to base a music education and appreciation. She played duets with them. One of her sons played the violin. She accompanied him in Church or on programs where he was asked to perform. She was present when any of her children performed in any way. She always showed an interest in their various accomplishments and activities. When her children made a grammatical error in their conversation, she corrected them each time and gave the reason for the proper usage, thus giving them good training in English. On the day her oldest son left for his first day at school she was apprehensive. Would he be subjected to swearing and other bad language from which he had been sheltered these six years? He returned at the end of the day and she inquired, 'Well, dear, did you hear any bad language today?" "Yes, Mother."' "Oh! That's too bad. What did you hear?" " 'Ts' for 'are,' "' was his reply. Recently this son, now a prominent attorney, visited his parents. Thinking his mother was asleep on the couch, he passed by her and walked directly across the room to greet his father. As they were conversing, his eighty-nine-year-old mother raised her head and remarked, '""You made a grammatical error." "There's nothing like a grammatical error to awaken your mother," laughed her husband. (To be concluded) 417 For Successful Family Home Evenings Belva B. Ashton Member, General Board of Relief Society « Robert Frost has one of his characters in "The Death of the Hired Man" say, "Home is the place where, when you have to go there, they have to take you in." A wonderful woman whom I know well told a group of us that her teenage daughter once asked her, "Mother, why are you nicer to everyone else than you are to us?" Knowing this woman as I do, I am sure she does love and serve her family, but in a humble, sweet way she suggested that perhaps too often each of us saves her "special" manners, "kind" words, and "encouraging" smiles for friends and acquaintances, Supposing any action will be accepted by those with whom we live —they will "love" us no matter how we treat them! Or, in the words of Robert Frost, "They have to take you in." However, a song from "Showboat" says, "It ain't necessarily so." And it is not necessarily so! Homes are not automatically filled with love. There is need to apply gospel teachings in our lives every day and with every person. Most certainly we should be 418 Left to Right: Randall Holt, thoughtful and considerate with the members of our family. Learning how to live better must be worked at the year around— summer and winter. But here it is—June! In the Northern Hemisphere trees are green with leaves and some are colorful with blossoms. Skies are blue and birds are singing. Streams are rushing downhill over smooth pebbles, fish are jumping in cool lakes. Children are busy with chores or playing, and fields are newly planted. Summer has arrived! Summer is a wonderful, delightful time. Activities, interests, chores, and responsibilities change, and with this change in routine and activities, something else often happens... FAMILY HOME EVENINGS ARE OFTEN PUT ASIDE. This would olt, Violet P. Passey, Jeffrey Holt not be serious if bad habits also "went on vacation" during the summer, but, unfortunately, such is not the case. How can any of us—adults or children—choose the right if we do not constantly, day by day, learn and practice the right? This ability to choose and live wisely is what I envision the Family Home Evening can help us do. It does not automatically happen in the home of the active Church member, nor in the home of the inactive believer. It more often happens, when conscientious and prayerful teaching and _ living make it happen. It is neither easier nor harder to hold regular Family Home Evenings in the summer than in the winter. In both cases there are forces which tend to draw us away.