[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
Visiting Teacher Messages Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants PREVIEW OF MESSAGES FOR 1962-63 Christine H. Robinson HIS year's visiting teacher messages "Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants" are taken from Sections 58 to 62. In describing some of the conditions and circumstances under which these five revelations were given, the Prophet Joseph Smith emphasized the fact that in the early days of the Church "there was a great anxiety to obtain the word of the Lord upon every subject that in any way concerned our salvation" (D. H. C. I: 207). The chief emphasis in this year's messages is on some of the principles of living which affect our salvation. They stress particularly the personal blessings that come from effective and productive work. For example, they emphasize that we should keep ourselves "anxiously engaged" in good works. 'They point out that works of righteousness bring rich personal rewards and they alert us to the great value of the gift of time and urge us to use it wisely in the quest for eternal values. These messages exhort us to be cheerful, prayerful, and faithful. They also point out the importance of being industrious in the application of self-initiative. 'They stress the extent to which personal salva- 462 tion depends upon applying to ourselves the eternal principle of repentance. As. With all Doctrine and Covenants teachings these messages, although they deal with enduring and eternal truths, are modern scriptures and their application is particularly appropriate in our lives today. If we follow their teachings they will help us find nght solutions to our problems and help us build lives on solid foundations which will bring us joy and happiness, not only in this life but throughout eternity. The messages and their objectives for 1962-1963 are as follows: Message 41—"Men Should Be Anxiously Engaged in a Good Cause" (D & C 58:27). Objective: —To demonstrate that the best cause in which we can be anxiously engaged is that of giving love and service to others. Message 42 — "He Who Doeth the Works of Righteousness Shall Receive His Reward" (D & C 59:23). Objective: 'To describe specific qualities and works which help to build righteous living. Message 43—"Be of Good Cheer" (D & C 61:36). Objective: To point out that cheerfulness is an important element of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 the gospel's teachings. The Lord wants us to be of good cheer. Message 44—"Thou Shalt Not Idle Away Thy Time" (D & C 60:13). Objective: To emphasize the importance of utilizing our time wisely and to the best possible advantage. Message 45—''Pray Always That You Enter Not Into Temptation" (D & C 61:39). Objective: —To show that prayer is the shield the Lord provides to help us Overcome temptation. Message 46—"He Who Has Repented of His Sins, the Same Is Forgiven and I, the Lord, Remember Them No More" (D & C 58:42). Objective: To show how greatly we are blessed through the divine principle of repentance. Message 47—"It Is Not Meet That I Should Command in All Things" (D & C 58:26). Objective: To emphasize the fact that it is through the exercise of free agency that we develop initiative and self-reliance. Message 48—'"Inasmuch As They Are Faithful They Shall Be Preserved, and I, the Lord, Will Be With Them" (D & C 61:10). Objective: To emphasize the fact that the Lord's protecting spirit gives the faithful strength to meet life's problems.