[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Fiction | Title: Peace | Author: Jones]
Peace in a Troubled World Ruth L. Jones RECENTLY, I was talking with a neighbor who 'is not a member of the Church. She expressed the almost hysterical fear in her heart of the possible destruction of the earth in a nuclear war and of her unsuccessful attempts to hide these fears from her small son. I tried to give her some assurance with thoughts somewhat like these: Yes — man has become very powerful — sufficiently so that he can destroy the works of man — but he does not have sufficient knowledge and power to destroy the works of God. Furthermore, man never will be able to change the eternal plans and purposes which God has for his creations. These are fearsome times, it is true, and we cannot help wondering what lies immediately ahead, but it is imperative that we continue to live our lives with trust in the ultimate triumph of right. We must see to it that we maintain homes of security and peace for our families. We need not try to do this alone. Our Heavenly Father is as near as our faith will allow him to be. He intends that we shall be happy — "men are that they might have joy," and it is not only our privilege, but our duty to attain this. Nothing can be gained by living in fear and doubts. He who created us and the earth will continue to keep his creations under his control. He will not forsake us. Then, I declare my sincere testimony that God lives. He has eternal plans for his children. Jesus is the Christ. The gospel has been restored. Truth is stronger than error, righteousness will overcome sin, and justice will be done. We have only to accept the will of our Father and the blessings which, inevitably, follow obedience to him. I hope that the good lady received a measure of peace from these words. I hope, too, that, as mothers in Israel, we shall make sure that our children have a clear understanding of what their destiny can be — that this knowledge may give them the blessed assurance of the goodness and mercy and omnipotence of God. Page 448 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by LaVona Hoopes I ST. JOSEPH STAKE (ARIZONA), PIMA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR November 1961 Left to right: Katheryn Cluff, Second Counselor; Polly Carter, First Counselor; Thelma Rogers, President; Louise Taylor, Secretary-Treasurer. LaVona Hoopes, President, St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, reports: "Due to the outstanding co-operation of the sisters in the Pima Ward Relief Society, a large number of articles were prepared for sale at the bazaar. A delicious Spanish supper was served. Previous to the bazaar, in October 1961, some of the articles prepared for the bazaar were entered in the Graham County Fair. Of seventy-three entries, sixteen blue ribbons were received, fourteen red nbbons, and eleven white ribbons. In preparing for the bazaar, it was suggested that the sisters make their articles of a quality good enough to be entered in the county fair." Page 449 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 451 its membership from a number of copper mining towns all situated thirty to forty-five miles apart. 'The most central town, Kitwe, has been chosen as the meeting place for this branch. In spite of long distances to travel, the sisters are very enthusiastic and feel it a privilege to belong to Relief Society. We have heard it said that this is the most remote branch from the headquarters of the Church in the world. Roads, at times, are unsafe for travel, but these sisters are most faithful and have an attendance of between ninety-five and one hundred per cent." 6 a Photograph submitted by Ora M. Gardner DESERET STAKE (UTAH), OASIS WARD HONORS VETERAN RELIEF SOCIETY WORKER AT SOCIAL, October 1961 Ora M. Gardner, President, Deseret Stake Relief Society, reports that Sister Jensine Anderson, eighty-three, eldest member of Oasis Ward Relief Society, was honored at the opening social in October. Sister Anderson, who was born in Denmark, joined the Relief Society sixty-three years ago, and has been an active member ever since. She ° has been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine since the first issue, and before that she was a subscriber to the Woman's Exponent, more than sixty years in all. As a visiting teacher, Sister Anderson, with her companion, had a perfect record for over five consecutive years. Many times they walked from home to home in the scatterd farming community. At the last county fair she was awarded five blue and six red ribbons for her lovely handwork. The award money was turned over to the Relief Society to "help out." Ethel M. Stanworth is president of Oasis Ward Relief Society. At the social Sister Stanworth presented in honor of Sister Anderscon a tribute in the form of a "This Is Your Life" program. A beautiful book was made, containing birthday greeting cards, pictures, and the story of Sister Anderson's life. 452 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 ite aC " ead I I ' BRISBANE STAKE (AUSTRALIA), BRISBANE THIRD WARD 'SOCIAL HONORING RETIRING PRESIDENCY AND WELCOMING THE NEW PRESIDENCY, July 1961 Front row, seated, left to mght: Amy Beatrice Bates; Sarah Lydia Lamb; Catherine Mary Tulloch, First Counselor, reappointed; Shirley Hauritz, retiring president; Gertrude Shirra, new President; Evangeline Thurger Smith, Second Counselor, reappointed; Jessie Stitchel Low; Lucy May Boundy; Margaret Elizabeth 'Tewlin. Back row, standing. Left to right: Doris Leppard; Elizabeth Frances Refoy; Ann Innes Fulcher; Enid J. Dean; Dorothy Elizabeth Solomon; Beryl Grace Buckle; Sirrka Annikka Brosser; Mary Millicent Manning; Chnistlene Schilling; Dorothy Robins. Enid M. Richards, President, Brisbane Stake Relief Society, reports that Sister Gertrude Shirra has returned to America, and the First Counselor Mary Tulloch was appointed president of the Brisbane Third Ward Relief Society. HRotograph submitted Pisa gee B. Glade I BOISE STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION Left to right: Clara Anderson, visiting teacher message leader; Zola Jeppson, Counselor; Alyce B. Glade, President; Eugenia Carver, Counselor; Rachael Rich, Secretary; Marian —— work director. 454 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 ae LY Photograph submitted by Ilah K. Smith DENVER STAKE (COLORADO) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, November 13, 1961 Seated in the front row, left to nght: Elva Wnght, Education Counselor; [ah K. Smith, President, Denver Stake Relief Society; Ruby Scott, Work Director Counselor; Reta Beck, chorister; Daisy Corlock, organist; Becky Christensen, organist. Sister Smith reports: "This lovely group presented the music for stake quarterly conference, November 13, 1961. They sang, "Oh, May I Know the Lord as Friend' and "The Battle Hymn of the Republic.' These songs were learned in the wards, and a lovely rendition was given by the stake group, with only a limited number of stake practices. All six wards and two branches, a total of eight units, were represented." Photograph submitted by Elva G. Ravsten SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, NORTH ALABAMA DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR DISTRICT CONFERENCE November 5, 1961 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 455 Front row, left to right: Thora Nichols; Georgia Stacey; Jean Riley; Carol Simley; Elva G. Ravsten, President, Southern States Mission Relief Society; Norma Johns; Pernie Newbold; Joy Densmore, chorister. Second row, left to right: Nell Martin; Lois Acker; Nora Huddleston; Ethel Lillis; Essie Cummings; Jetta Lowther. Third row, left to right: Charlene Williams; Dora Tuberville; Alice Collins; Sarah Vines; Elinor Robinson. Fourth row, left to right: Jessie Sanders; Hazel Jex; Ida Mae Morton; Nettie Stockman; organists Sally Cummings and Sue Ellen Tuberville. Sister Ravsten reports: "We are very happy with our Relief Society Singing Mothers. A year ago we didn't have a Singing Mothers chorus in the North Alabama District. With faith that the Lord would help us if we did our part, we organized a Singing Mothers chorus, and for the last two district conferences, these mothers have presented the music. The music was beautiful, and the sweet spirit and humility of these sisters opened the way for the spirit of the Lord to be with us." "ity — iain H. Christensen SOUTH SANPETE STAKE (UTAH), AND WARD WORK MEETING LEADERS DISPLAY HANDWORK AT VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION November 18, 1961 Left to right: Christine Allred, Ephraim North Ward; Kit Barton, Manti North Ward; Lenore Dennison, Manti South Ward; Marzetta Willardsen, South Sanpete Stake work meeting leader; Naomi Davis, Manti Center Ward; Marcel Poulson, Ephraim South Ward; Jessie Bradley, Sterling Ward; Ada Larsen, Ephraim West Ward. Vonda H. Christensen, President, South Sanpete Stake Relief Society, reports that many beautiful articles of handwork were on display at the visiting teacher convention. Included were many lovely aprons, quilts, stuffed toys, artificial flowers, and paintings. The women of the stake were privileged to hear a message of inspiration and encouragement from General President Belle S. Spafford, who was guest speaker at the convention. Audio-Visual Teaching Materials for the 1962-1963 Lessons "THE BETTER FOR YOU TO SEE AND HEAR, MY DEARS" Alice L. Wilkinson Member, General Board of Relief Society UDIO-visual teaching maA terials, when wisely and skillfully used, will give life and lasting interest to all lessons taught in Relief Society. 'Today, they are accepted as important teaching tools, and their use can be easily justified if we remember that we can learn more quickly if we can see what is being explained orally. A great impetus in the use of audio-visual materials has been noted since World War II. Reports indicate that with their use time required to train men for the armed services was cut as much as thirty to forty per cent. Some authorities say that eighty-five to ninety per cent of what an ordinary person learns is through the eye. We often hear the expression, "I can remember your face, but I can't remember your name." 'This is evidence that an impression through sight is more permanent than one __ received through hearing. With so much to Page 456 learn about our gospel and the many things which enrich our lives, we, as Relief Society class leaders, dare not neglect the fastest and most permanent method at hand. The reasons why our learning processes are stepped up by the use of audio-visual materials have been stated in previous articles published in The Relief Society Magazine, a list of which is given at the end of this article. But for the sake of many mrew class leaders who are entering upon their first teaching experience, it may be well to review them here. They arouse interest. They focus attention. They stimulate thought. They clarify a point. They help to retain ideas. They stimulate imagination. They recall experiences. They save time. They provide student activity. They complement and enrich other methods.