[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
Lite rature—America's Literature (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York) PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1962-63 The New Birth of Freedom Elder Briant S. Jacobs DUCATION, indeed all existence, might be deSea yfned as a_ never-ending J voyage into self - discovery. And while each of us is moved irresistibly forward with emerging time, we best deepen and enrich our present search for identity by constantly returning to the past. The future is fantasy, since it unfolds itself to us only as an endless series of present moments. The living present alone seems real, but before it is here it is blended and tempered by all that is past, which it joins and gives substance to. The past approached as a sympathetic friend loyally tending to our every question and sensitive response sustains our imaginations and spirits with a breadth of vision and a warmth of understanding for all humankind. It bequeaths to our life some of its brightest joys and most enduring LESSON DEPARTMENT satisfactions. For those who approach the past in humility and awe, it yields superb cause for gratitude. The accumulative growth of centuries was culminated in the late eighteenth century by the Founding Fathers of the United States who wrote down what Englishmen living in New England had long known in their hearts. It was they who gave birth to the United States as a revoJutionary idea, as theory. Now it remained for the nineteenth century to fire these brittle theories in the roaring furnace of a new age. "As our cause is new, so must we think anew," wrote Lincoln, for his pioneering, conflicting century. 'Thus fired and proved and strengthened, old truths were born anew and the maturing nation in conflict with herself attained a permanent maturity heretofore unknown. Romantic idealisms were moderated by tensions of a new realism; major issues and tensions increasingly became those familiar to the twentieth century. The same "great and marching words" of the glorious American past were still present and dominant, but in the mid-nineteenth century they were redefined: reality, aristocracy, wit, sin, nature, tradition, selfreliance, time, space, brotherhood, and freedom. The Civil War, that livid saber-cut across the face of American history, released pent-up conflicts so complex and comprehensive that a century has had to lapse away before they could be seen from a viewpoint even approaching a trustworthy perspective. Its accompanying literature mirrors its tumult and variety of values. Through the living words of literature, we have access to this crucial 465 period now freed from the arbitrary limitations of a place, a time, a nationality. During 1962-63 the following authors will write to us and for us: Lesson 33—Thoreau, Man in Nature Objective: To feel and appreciate Thoreau's "inexpressible satisfaction'' with the gift of life. Lesson 34—Henry David Thoreau, Individualist Objective: To relive some of Thoreau's words, that we may feel the force of his integrity and independence. Lesson 35—The Alcott Family Objective: To accept the Alcott home, real and fictional, as a memorable example of the unity which kindness and love can create. Lesson 36—Oliver Wendell Holmes, Amiable Amateur Objective: To enrich our understanding and enjoyment of Holmes' wit and poetry by acknowledging the issues of his time which he represented. Lesson 37—The Literary Lincoln Objective: To establish a closer interrelationship between Lincoln's character and his writings, that we may more fully appreciate the genius of both. Lesson 383—Herman Melville (1819-1891 ) Objective: To become acquainted with Melville as man and as American that we may better understand the close relationship between his life and his writings. 466 Lesson 39—Melville's Masterpiece— Moby Dick Objective: To enjoy sharing Moby Dick either with the first reader or with the devotee. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 Lesson 40—The Challenge of Walt Whitman Objective: To attempt a sympathetic approach to Whitman, that we may experience further insight into his greatness. PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1962-63 Elder Ariel S. Ballif Course Objective: "ANKIND has always M lived in group association. Wherever this association exists, some form of regulation has been agreed upon. 'This represents man's effort to govern or to give direction to group interaction. 'The degree of regulation has varied from simple assent of the members of the group to complete dominance by a limited number. From this have developed the most effective forms of government that the group has been able to produce. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints maintains that man is a creation of God, made in his image, and entitled to God's wisdom to assist and direct him to the full expression of his capabilities. Man was placed upon this earth with instruction for growth and advancement given by the Creator himself. Blessed with free agency and designed to live in a society where choice is assured, man has varied in his response to the divine instrucTo understand the law of God as it operates through his Priesthood for the exaltation of his children. Tion. In doing so, he has lost ground, in some instances to the extent that he could hardly be recognized in his behavior as the spirit child of God the Eternal Father. Whenever man has chosen to operate on his own without the wisdom and counsel of God, he has had to learn by trial and error. Advancement under these conditions has been slow, with many receding periods, never with the steady, consistent, upward movement that could have been his to enjoy through ehedience to divine law. When man has recognized God and been in tune witn his mind and will, his progress. Has been more directly upward toward the glory of Godhood, which is the design of the Creator. We believe that God is the Creator of this world and all life upon it, including man. We believe that there was purpose in the creation, not merely a chance arrangement. This purpose includes the opportunity for man to work out his own salvation, to develop his LESSON DEPARTMENT talents and abilities toward perfection through learning, understanding, and living the principles, laws, and commandments governing the attainment of eternal life revealed by God. These revelations are the mind and will of God. 'They are divine law.