[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans CAnnon]
Biddulph, a teacher of English at Ricks Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon @& We Ww ® ® BB BB B BOB BB B8® College, Rexburg, and a Latter-day Saint woman, won the Idaho scholarship. DeOks HAWLEY, wife of Dr. Harold Hawley of New York State, and Lorna Johnson, wife of Lavern Johnson, of Illinois, are farm wives who help their husbands make farming pay generously. Dr. Hawley has a Ph. D. Degree in agricultural economics; his wife has a master's degree in home economics. Dr. Hawley worked out an accounting system that takes into consideration every smallest item of cost and profit. Mrs. Johnson handles the accounting work. EVERAL Latter-day Saint women participated in the national convention of Penwomen held in Washington, D. C., in April. They are: Wilma Bunker, national president; Mrs. Erla Young, co-chairman of the art workshop; Mrs. Virginia Evans, hostess of the Korean Embassy Tea; Mrs. Fiametta Fausett, co-chairman of the craft exhibit; Mrs. Mirla Thayne, hostess at the German Embassy tea; Mrs. Mabel Harmer, chairman of the contest for teenage books; Mrs. Mabel Jones Gabbott, in charge of the contest for juvenile verse. Page 417 EDITORIAL VOL. 


 NO. 6 HE 132d Annual Confer- } ence of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter- — day Saints was held in the historic Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 6, 7, and 8, 1962. President David O. McKay, Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, conducted all of the general sessions, and was assisted during the conference by President Henry D. Moyle and President Hugh B. Brown. All of the General Authorities were in attendance at the conference sessions except Elder Delbert L. Stapley and Elder George QO. Morris of the Council of the Twelve, who were ill; Elder John Longden, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, who was touring the Pacific area; Elder Bruce R. McConkie and Elder Marion D. Hanks of the First Council of the Seventy who are serving as missions presidents in Australia and Great Britain, respectively. Leaders from all the wards and branches, stakes and missions of the Church throughout the world were present for the conference sessions. By means of translators and earphones, Dutch, Spanish, and German leaders were enabled to hear the conference proceedings in their own tongues. A vast network of television and radio stations carried the conference messages to thousands of people across the United States, and for the first time, an international audience heard prophetic words from Temple Page 418 Square — majestic tones of the great organ, and the voices of the choir praising the Lord. Five short wave channels beamed from Boston, three in English and two in Spanish, directed the proceedings to Europe, South Africa, South America, Central America, and Mexico. It was reported that during the year 1961 an additional 130,481 people became members of the Church, making a total of 1,823,661 members in all the world. At the close of 1961 there were 345 stakes and sixtyfour missions. Throughout the conference sessions, reference was made to the opportunities of members of the Church to become "shining lights" and help illumine the troubled world, and to seek eternal life in the kingdom of Jesus Christ. As expressed by President McKay, the principal message of the conference exemplified "the reality of God the Father and his Son _ Jesus Christ." N his opening address, President McKay described the organization of the Church in Fayette, Seneca County, New York, April 6, 1830, and referred to the inspired words of the Lord as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith that "A great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men." "Faith in the existence of an intelligent Creator," said President McKay, "was the first element that EDITORIAL contributed to the perpetuity of the Church, the everlasting foundation on which the Church is built." He declared that the gospel teaches that Christ is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. One of the two great general principles to which all others are subsidiary is this: "Love your neighbor as yourself...." The gospel bids the strong bear the burdens of the weak, and to use the advantages given them by their larger opportunities in the interest of the common good that the whole level of humanity may be lifted, and the path of spiritual attainment opened to the weakestand most unlearned, as well as to the strong and intelligent.... RESIDENT Henry D. Moyle emphasized the everlasting importance of revelation and direction from God in all ages: We know and bear witness to the world that the survival of our faith in God is dependent upon present day direction from God. How impotent is man when he is left alone with only the revelations of the past. Without present day revelation, the very foundation upon which this last dispensation of the fulness of times was built, would crumble. There can be no fulness of the gospel without revelation, noW OF ever. Joseph Smith must continue to be recognized by the Church and the world to be the modern day lawgiver by whom the gospel of Jesus Christ was restored to the earth in its pristine purity. RESIDENT Hugh B. Brown emphasized the characteristics, the duties, and the responsibilities incumbent upon those who have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ: 419. There is one doctrinal event which foreshadows and overshadows all other Christian doctrine... The atonement of Christ.... Faith in this one transcendent event, the most important in all history, is the enduring foundation upon which the true Christian gospel is built. Upon it the salvation of the whole human family depends. [NX his closing address, President McKay blessed the saints throughout the world and enjoined them to obedience to the gospel, and declared his strong and vibrant testmony: In our daily desire for material success and pleasure, we have a tendency to neglect the importance of the Creator's place in our hearts and in our homes; and in social intercourse we are prone to neglect the importance of making the Creator the center of our lives. Our religion is not a cloak to wear on Sunday and hang in the closet for the rest of the week, neither is it something for nations to parade on certain occasions and then to wrap up in mothballs to await another occasion. Men today are rapidly classifying themselves into two groups: believers and nonbelievers..... The gospel of Jesus Christ is the plan whereby our hearts and lives and towns and nations can be united in bringing about universal peace and the brotherhood of man. God lives! So does Jesus Christ, his beloved Son, who gave the gospel, the eternal plan of salvation of the human soul.... God bless you brethren and sisters, may you carry back to your wards and stakes and missions the spirit of this great, greatest of all conferences ever held in the Church. To You With Love Betty Lou Martin HE valley was aglow with the warm, fresh beauty gam) Of spring, and the city a= seemed to bustle with renewed energy. 'The familiar smell of dry leaves and grass being burned seemed to fill the air. Spring is finally here, the young mother thought as she walked along the street, pushing her small son in his stroller. 'The grass gets greener every day. Joyce Vance moved slowly along the streets of the small college town. The campus was one of the loveliest in the entire State, and she couldn't help feeling slightly sentimental as she strolled by the buildings. "There have been many good memories here," Joyce sighed as she stopped for a moment to adjust Bobbie's cap. "Here now, dear, it isn't quite warm enough to take your cap off yet." Joyce was approaching the university apartments where she and Roger had lived for the past five years. It was home now, and they accepted it. 'They had done their best to fix up the apartment, and even though it was small, they had managed. Just the will to manage, Joyce thought as she remembered all her dreams of the house that they would live in when she married. Joyce had waited for Roger while he was on his mission. She hadn't minded really. 'The time had gone by swiftly and soon Roger was home. She hadn't objected, either, when Roger expressed his desire to go on and finish college. However, she Page 420 had wished inwardly that he would settle down to a job. She wanted a home of her own. All her life she and her mother had been moved from one city to another by her father. It wasn't her father's fault that his job had transferred him all over the state. "My goodness, Bobbie, it is almost five o'clock." Joyce quickened her pace. "We had _ better hurry home and get your father some dinner. He has to go to work tonight." Once inside the apartment, Joyce made the baby comfortable and then began preparing dinner. I wonder what it will be like not to have to economize at every turn. After five years of it, I doubt very much that I ' will ever be able to get out of the habit, Joyce thought. "Dinner ready, Joyce?" Roger called cheerfully as he picked up Bobbie and walked into the kitchen that was really only a partition from the living room. "Something smells good." Roger was tall, with dark hair and blue eyes. Joyce thought he looked tired and that the strain of school and work was taking its toll. "You say that every night, my dear husband, even though we have about the same thing," Joyce explained patiently. "It won't always be this way." Roger tried to console Joyce. "Besides, I think that it has been good for us to have to economize. At least now we know how." "That is just about all that you TO YOU WITH LOVE can say for it." Joyce set the steaming bowl of potatoes on the table. "You better get washed up now. Dinner is ready." FTER Roger had left for work and Joyce was finishing up the dishes, she couldn't help feeling guilty as she thought back over the way she had spoken to Roger. I shouldn't have talked to him that way. After all, it is just as difficult for him as it is for me. He is the one who has to go to school, study, and keep up a part-time job. Joyce glanced up at the calendar. Oh, well, if things worked out, Roger should have only six more months of school left. Suddenly Joyce stared at the dates on the calendar. Why it is Roger's birthday next week. I almost forgot. What will I ever do for money to buy him a birthday present? The next few days passed by hurniedly, and still Joyce had not come to a solution as to how she would be able to afford a present for Roger. Just this once she wanted to give him something really nice, something that would help him over these last few months of school. It had been such a difficult struggle, and this last winter had seemed to be worse than the others. Now their rent was due, and they had to have some repairs made on the car. There just wouldn't be any money left over at all. One evening Roger and Joyce were down town buying groceries when Roger stopped by a sporting goods shop and admired the reel and rod fishing combination displayed in the window. "Look, honey," he called to Joyce. "When I get out of school and we 421 get enough money ahead, this is what I am going to have." Roger's eyes fairly twinkled with admiration. "Isn't that a beauty?" "Too bad you can't have it for this summer, dear," Joyce remarked. "You could at least have a little enjoyment out of it now." "Oh, I can wait. I can still use father's fishing equipment. We just have to wait for these things." Joyce frowned. "I just wish that I had your patience." she strained to see the price tag on the fishing equipment. It was $19.95. Later, on their way home, Roger said, "That reminds me. I almost forgot to give you our tithing money. We will have to pay it this next Sunday." Roger opened his wallet and took out some bills. "That's right, it is fast day this Sunday." Joyce reached to take the money from Roger's hand. Then suddenly the thought struck her. Just this once it will be all night. We have always paid our tithing promptly before. Roger wouldn't agree with me for postponing it, but he doesn't have to know. I'll be able to make up our tithing in the next few months. Joyce seemed to relax now. I've found a way, she thought. Roger will have that new fishing equipment for his birthday. T the campus branch of Relief Society, Joyce sat by her good friend Melba Anders. "Melba," she said, "can you come to town with me after meeting? I have to get Roger's birthday present." Melba nodded just as the Relief Society president stood up to start the meeting. All through the lesson Joyce tried to concentrate, but her thoughts kept wandering to buy- 422 ing the present for Roger. E: xcitement surged through her. Chances are that Roger will forget about our tithing receipt. I have always taken care of them anyway. After meeting, Joyce and Melba walked toward their car. "My, but you are lucky to be able to buy Roger a present. It has been so long since I have given Cliff anything for his birthday. All I can ever manage is a birthday card and a cake. What are you going to buy?" "Oh, I had my eye on a reel and rod combination that Roger was admiring. I am so excited, Melba, I can't wait to give it to him." "Won't that be quite expensive?" Melba questioned. "TI really don't mean to be inquisitive, but I thought that you two were having a pretty rugged time of it." Joyce lowered her voice. "We are, Melba, and I want to do something I am not sure is the right thing. I want to use our tithing money this month for his present. 'Then I'll make it up in the next few months, and pay double then." "Joyce, you wouldn't do that." Melba couldn't hide her disapproval. "Don't. It is so difficult to get back on a regular schedule, after once postponing a sacred obligation." "Why, Melba, you remember telling me you did the same thing once," Joyce reminded Melba. "Yes I did, and I've regretted that postponement ever since. When we paid our tithing regularly, everything went so smoothly it was unbelievable. 'Then I got the idea that I just had to have some new curtains. Cliff didn't know about it, either, and believe me, when he found out, I know that he lost some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 of his respect for me. After that we had one thing after another come up. First I broke my glasses, then the baby got sick, and we just kept getting further behind. I ended up regretting my decision, and I have been very prompt ever since." Melba touched Joyce's arm. "You have a couple of days before Roger's birthday. 'Think about it for awhile. Then, if you still feel that same way, Pll go down with you to buy the present, but please think about it some more. You wouldn't want your blessings to be postponed."