[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Fiction | Title: Recipes for a Brunch| Author: Linnie Fisher Robinson]
BESIDES the fact that we have to have food, the best thing about it is that it brings the loved faces of the family or friends together around one board. We cherish these occasions — the fun, the joy of being together, and the food that tastes so good.

The people who eat at my table usually say, "I haven't made that dish for a long time, but I'm going to, for it tastes so good." On the strength of that, and the fact that there are some who are new at cooking who have asked for recipes of the ways I cook some things, I offer these loved recipes from various relatives and friends.

MENU
Creamed Chicken in Patty Shells — Grapefruit in Gelatine
Candied Carrots — Sliced Beets With Lemon Juice

CREAMED CHICKEN

Cooked and cubed meat from one large chicken
3 c. chicken stock (If you haven't this much, make some with bouillon cubes. Do not water it)
1 c. canned mushrooms and juice

1 small onion minced fine
1 small jar sliced pimento
¼ c. flour and chicken fat (if there is not enough fat for flour, use butter)
1 c. thick cream
seasonings to taste

Drain mushrooms (saving juice), saute in butter until golden brown, then add juice; add onion and pimento. Heat stock and put mushroom mixture in it, then add flour, which has been stirred into the chicken fat or butter. Cook until done and thick. Season to taste and add cream, and last of all add the cubed chicken. Set in a pan of boiling water to keep warm until you serve it. If you make this ahead of time, be certain to warm this mixture in a pan of hot water, no matter how little or much you make. Also, do not put in chicken until mixture is hot. If you stir cubed chicken in any liquid, it will become soft and mushy. Recipe serves 8 to 10. (I might add I use 7 chickens for 60 people.)

PATTY SHELLS

2 c. flour
3 tbsp. sugar
1 tsp. baking powder
1 tsp. salt

1 c. shortening
1 egg
3 tbsp. half and half cream
or evaporated milk

Combine first four items. Stir egg into shortening. It will be light and fluffy. Add cream and stir lightly into flour mixture. Roll out lightly on floured board and cut with a 4½" bowl. Bake on the bottom of muffin tins. Do not press dough hard on tins, but put the dough on lightly, gathering it a little around the pan, then it will come off easier and have no holes in it. Bake at 400° until golden brown. Cool before removing from tins. Makes 10 shells.

GRAPEFRUIT IN GELATINE

5 large pink grapefruit
juice of 1 lemon
5 tbsp. sugar or more, to taste

4 envelopes gelatine (unsweetened and unflavored)
2 or 3 drops red food coloring
1 c. water.

Wash grapefruit and cut in half, as for breakfast, and with sharp grapefruit knife extract sections and save juice. Discard only membrane. Be careful not to cut the shell of the grapefruit. Soak gelatine in water, adding a little of the juice if necessary. Heat the remainder of juice and dissolve gelatine in hot liquid. Set aside to cool. When cool add the rest of the grapefruit and a few drops of coloring. Add the juice of the lemon and sugar. Pour into the half shells, place in bake pans or cereal dishes, and set in refrigerator to harden.

CANDIED CARROTS

4 lbs. carrots
1 c. water
3 tbsp. butter

4 tbsp. carrot juice
4 tbsp. brown sugar
salt to taste

Wash and scrape the carrots and cut in half and quarter the halves. Steam in presto cooker with the cup of water for 5 minutes. Cool quickly and pour off water, reserving 4 tbsp. of the carrot juice. Put juice in another saucepan, add the brown sugar, butter, and about ¼ tsp. salt. Cook for a minute and pour the steamed carrots into the saucepan and take out the steam rack from the presto. Pour the carrots carefully back and forth from one kettle to the other until they are well coated. This method keeps the carrots from breaking up and makes them taste good indeed. Serves 14 to 16.

SLICED BEETS WITH LEMON JUICE

2 tbsp. whole cloves
4 sticks cinnamon
2 shakes nutmeg
enough cooked cubed beets to make 4 pints
2 c. beet juice

1 c. sugar
2 tbsp. butter
juice of 2 or 3 lemons
2 tbsp. cornstarch
4 tbsp. water for mixing cornstarch

Put spices in cheesecloth bag and tie. Place in beet juice and cook 2 or 3 minutes, then add sugar, lemon juice, butter, and beets and cook another 2 minutes. Then take out spice bag and pour off juice into another pan and thicken. Cook until done and pour over the beets. Heat and serve. Serves 10 to 12. Color the mixture if needed. (Seasonings must be to taste.) The sauce is better tasting if allowed to stand a day or so.