[Vol55 | December 1968 | Page 928 | General Feature | "Look Books" for the | Little Ones]
["Look Books" for the Little Ones]

Santa Claus dispensed gifts from the tree for the little ones. The refreshments were on a circular table with a candy covered gingerbread house as a centerpiece. The table was covered with a full length skirt of white felt, edged with gold fringe and decorated with felt cutouts. The cutouts were very clever reproductions of Santa and his reindeer, Mr. And Mrs. Snowman, and Christmas trees, decorated with rhinestones and sequins. 927 °7.**Look Books'' for the Little Ones 723 RH Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts ® It has often been repeated that a gift of the hand is truly a gift of the heart. When listing our most treasured gifts over the years, a gift made by someone dear usually rests atop the inventory. Sister Alice M. Graves, Mesa, Arizona, makes for each one of her twenty-two grandchildren and five great-grandchildren a gift which they hold most precious. The "Look Books," as she has aptly named them, are constructed of durable posterpaper, with covers of a bright color. She puts the book together with binder rings, using reinforcements on all holes. She then paints the reinforcements on the covers to match. The books for the smaller youngsters consist entirely of pictures which come from greeting cards and discarded books. Sister Graves saves her own greeting cards, 'Look Books" for the Little Ones and is assisted by friends and neighbors in saving all sorts of cards. Knowing the children and their likes and dislikes enables her to prepare a book to suit each child's interests. She also tries to include in each book, at least one picture of a child praying to remind the children of the importance of prayer. The books for the smaller children need no words, for they make up their own stories as they go along. The older children who have learned to read, enjoy verses which go along with the pictures, Sister Graves writes all of the verses herself, and they are delightful. The grateful mothers have reported that these books aid in keeping the children quiet in meetings. Because of special construction, the books are not noisy and they last for years. Many of the grandchildren have special places for their special books, and one young man has had his book for four years, has looked at it nearly every day, and it remains in the same beautiful condition it was in when he received it. Sister Graves also makes a lovely gift for her older granddaughters, her daughters, and daughters-in-law. It is a cookbook constructed in the same way as the "Look Books," and appropriately illustrated. It contains her favorite tried and true recipes. These books, also, are treasured gifts. COOKIES FOR CHILDREN (Continued from page 917) Sugar Cookies 114, c. Soft shortening (part butter) 1 tsp. Lemon flavoring 2, ¢. Sugar 5 c. Sifted flour (wholewheat flour may be 4 eggs; used) 1 tsp. Vanilla 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Almond flavoring 2 tsp. Salt Sift together dry ingredients. Cream together shortening, sugar, eggs, and flavorings. Mix together to make a soft dough. Chill at least one hour. Roll. Cut. Bake 6 minutes for thin cookies at 400° and longer for thicker cookies. Yule Cookies 1 c. Butter substitute 21, c. Sifted whole-wheat flour 2 c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Baking powder Y, c. Honey Y, tsp. Salt 3 large eggs, or 4 small 2 tsp. Quick cooking oatmeal Yc. Orange juice 1 c. Seedless raisins 1 tbsp. Grated orange rind: 1 pkg. Fruit cake mix (or make your own) 3 tbsp. Lemon juice 1, c. Coarsely chopped nuts 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind 4 oz. Bottle drained maraschino 1 apple, coarsely grated cherries or ¥, c. Candied maraschino cherries (4 0z.) Cream sugar and shortening. Add honey and eggs, and beat until light. Add all fruits and fruit juices, beating after each additon. Sift flour, salt, and baking powder together twice and stir in. Mix in oatmeal and nuts. Drop on greased cookie sheet. Flatten lightly with fork dipped in sugar. Bake at 350° for 12-15 minutes. Store in tightly covered container. Coconut-Nut Cookies whites of 2 eggs 1 c. Dates, finely cut 2/, c. Brown sugar 2 c. Chopped walnuts ¥, c. Honey 1 to 1% c. Shredded coconut 1 c. Shredded coconut for rolling cookies Beat egg whites until stiff. Add sugar to make meringue. Add honey, chopped nuts, dates, and 1 c. Coconut. Mix-well. Drop by teaspoon on coconut and roll until thoroughly coated. Place on greased cookie sheet and bake at 325° to 350° for 15-20 minutes until slightly browned. Do not remove from cookie sheet until completely cooled or the cookies will collapse. 

929 December 1968

 Chocolate Oatmeal Cookies 2c. Sugar. Y, tsp. Salt Yc. Milk 3 c. Quick oatmeal ¥, c. Butter or substitute ¥, c. Chopped nuts 3 tbsp. Cocoa 1 c. Coconut 1 tsp. Vanilla Combine sugar, milk, butter, cocoa, and vanilla in saucepan. Bring to boil slowly. Remove. Add oatmeal, coconut, and nuts. Quickly stir until thick enough to drop by teaspoon on waxed paper. Let cool to set up. A CHRISTMAS CLOWN (continued from page 926) finish. The frame was built around the table from scrap lumber with uprights and crosspieces to support the clown's face. Chicken wire was attached to the basketball standard to form the basis for the hair. Cardboard for the clown's face was obtained at a hardware store. It was made in two pieces for ease in handling. The features were painted with poster paint. The hair was made by attaching colored napkins to. The chicken wire, with crepe paper used for additional decoration. This was a popular booth at the bazaar, both with adults and especially with the children.