[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | August | Issue: 3 | Title: IN RURAL ENGLAND. | Author: Unknown]

		﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XVIII.
	WHILE Clair and Maitland were away
during the hunting season Jane and Anna
were busy plying the needle, Jane with
her own wardrobe and Anna with fine em-
broidery and lace; her tastes were refined in
every particular and those were the days of
fine fancy needle-work. The French ladies
or governesses, for they were really ladies in
education and cultivation had taught her
the art of the needle to perfection.
	Every evening Dr. Bland came to sit
awhile when he was not too busy, and he
was most welcome for the old place was
lonely without Clair. The Doctor’s house
was being remodeled and Miss Conway had
to be consulted in the matter, and this was
a common ground of conversation. The
season was delightful, and the young ladies
took great pleasure in walking and driving
through the beautiful fields; the foliage
made charming pictures of which they
never tired, and whether in early morning or
sunset time, the trees and shrubbery wore
every shade of artistic coloring, and often
the girls remarked to each other as they
gazed and admired, “Will we ever be as
quietly happy again as we are now in this
beautiful Autumn weather?” and indeed so
many scenes and changes had come and gone
in quick succession, that this season of rest
was like a forboding. It filled them with
presentiments lest evil was lurking near.
Neither of them knew exactly what would
be done with the old home-ruin in fact it
had never really been a home in Sir Ed-
ward’s time, it was sort of a refuge, Jane
had made it more homelike than before, and
it is little wonder if these young women, did
wonder what the future held in store.
	Time went on slowly but the grey No-
vember soon set in and the gloom deepened
outside, and the raw and chill winds tossed
the dry leaves hither and thither, and finally
the rainy and wet season set in and there
were no more walks or rides, and the girls
thought Clair and Maitland would soon
come now for the hunting must be over;
but when Dr. Bland declared it was famous
hunting weather, Anna felt inclined to re-
bel at being left so long without an escort
or some one to help pass the time away: the

[Column 2]
Dr. inquired what she would do without
her cousin, at which she forgot herself
momentarily and rated him soundly for
mentioning snch a thing. “And why not?”
said he, “we are soon to be married, and
you must accept the situation however
lonely you may feel, I am glad however
that you have so much spirit, to protest, it
really makes me think you have some of
your father’s characteristics after all, and it
will be the better for you to have a will of
your own, it is quite becoming in a woman
to know her own mind, and I am not so
anxious as to your future seeing that you
can take your own part.
	“Miss Conway was a little disconcerted
she felt it was but an ebullition of emotional
feeling and not at all in keeping with her
cousin’s true character, she knew that An-
na needed a discreet and prudent guide and
Clair with Italian blood in his veins was
not the person to look to; but she comforted
herself with the thought that for the present
she would be near to give advice; she dis-
trusted Lady Walton and had less confidence
in her husband, she had an intuitive feeling
of his insincerity when he came to talk with
her at the Castle, she knew from her uncle
the deception he had practiced in that to
him bitter past, that blighted his whole life,
as it were, and she was glad to remember
she had been downright plain
with him about Anna and Maitland; he
could not be mistaken in her candor, what-
ever might come She pitied Lady Walton’s
weakness and really woudered that Mait-
land possessed as much honor and manli-
ness as he had shown, considering his
parents; she felt he was at least constant
and that was someth1ng.
	After Doctor Bland left the house Jane
had a long talk with her cousin speaking
very plainly to her of her future and assur-
ing her that she would watch over her,
even though she was not in the same house-
hold. Anna spoke of some one to preside
but her cousin asked her not to think of it
at present, for said she “the unexpected
might happen as when I came:” and Anna
added “Or as when Clair came who would
have suspected such a change as that in the
order of events.”
	It was good for Clair Hilliard with his
inexperience to be thrown into the society
of men of the world, like those he met at
the Greyson’s for he would be expected to
take part in the affairs of the County even
if he would not accept a nomination for
office. Men who have an understanding of
general matters can always be useful in the
community where they reside, and help in
the common interests of the people. Clair
had no conception of such things but he
would be called upon to do his share in any
event which might transpire locally, and
therefore all he could learn by personal
contact with wide-awake men would be
beneficial. Maitland needed this too almost
as mnch, he had been carefully trained at
home, but it was in “polite society” as an
escort for his mother to balls and parties,
more than in any public duties: Hearing
men talk and reason together and discuss
governmental questions was quite a school
for these young men, not  that it was all
sound doctrine or correct principles, but it
gave them an insight into a life that was
fresh and new at least to them. They had
more of the theoretical in their natures, and
yet were totally unlike. Time passed
pleasantly and they parted from their new-
made friends with regret thongh both were
anxious to return home; and the young

[Column 3]
ladies were desirous of having their company
once again.
	The first subject under discussion after
Clair’s return home was whether they
should spend the winter in the couutry or
go up to London—Burke had sent word
that Clair would be needed in London to
transact some business and the Doctor nat-
urally urged the country on his own ac-
count, but ostensibly in behalf of the tenan-
try who had never had real Christmas
festivities since Sir Edward had become so
much of a recluse. Anna was really the one
whose claim seemed strongest, for she had
never spent a season in London and favored
going there, she had professed great inter-
est in charitable work among the tenants
when Maitland made his stolen visits, but
it was only a pretext as her cousin Jane
learned to her full satisfaction as well as
disappointment afterwards.
	So it was decided that London should be
the choice for the winter, and Christmas ar-
rangements should be left to the housekeep-
er and others who could assist her in the
distribution, the good Dr. Bland who knew
every one of them to superintend the whole.
	After this was settled Anna was gayer
and busier planning and packing, and
practising for she had almost discarded her
governesses injunctions as to etiquette,
and her love-affairs had made her forgetful
of music and drawing.
	All these she tried to bring back to her
remembrance and Clair was very helpful,
he knew when she was in time and his danc-
ing was perfection. Jane Conway gave no
attention to these trivial matters but busied
herself with things of greater importance.
	The Walton’s were going up to London,
and she knew how much that implied; she
felt that her influence would be less with
Anna, and even with Clair, when thrown
into the society of these fashionable people.
	The old housekeeper was vexed at
having so many orders given her, she felt
very consequential with these young people.
	The old housekeeper was vexed at
having so many orders given her, she felt
very consequential with these young people.
Clair made himself as agreeable as possible,
but she hardly reconciled herself even to his
assuming any authority believing his moth-
er to have been of the gipsy race, and she
would mutter away behind his back about
“the goings on of fine folks, that were no
better than they should be.”
	She wondered too why she was not left
in the will—after serving there “these many
a year” as she expressed it and “no dout”
she would add “this young foreigner will
soon run through all there is, and we’ll go
on to the parish, or be sent to the workus.”
	Miss Conway hearing some of these
things repeated by the servants, felt it her
duty to remonstrate with Mrs. Burke, if she
were to be left in charge at such an impor-
tant time as the Christmas holidays.
	Miss Conway made no allusion to what
she had heard repeated by the servants but
gave some direct orders about the manage-
ment during the winter, when the house-
keeper showed considerable obstinacy and
was so impertinent that she was obliged to
remind her of her position and that her or-
ders were not to be set aside—“and who’ll
ye complain too Ma’am if I refuse to obey
your orders, Lady Anna ’ll never interfere
with me and the solicitor as lives in Lon-
don and has charge is my cousin, least ways
he was poor dear William’s cousin who’s
dead and gone, and he’ll see me righted
ma’am I’m not goin to he humbugged by
young missesses as knows naught, after be-
ing in this house nigh on to twenty years.”


[Column 1]

and with this long speech she flaunted out
of the room in high dudgeon.
	Jane Conway stood still a moment to
think what was best to do, she had heard
before that the housekeeper had a violent
temper when thwarted, but it had never oc-
curred to her that she could threaten, nor
had she even thought of any relationship
between Mrs. Burke the housekeeper and
Mr. Burke her uncle's solicitor. Discretion
is the better part of valor—thought the
young woman, and I'll wait until she has had
time to think better of it, and see her again
tomorrow. Jane did not mention to her
cousins the little incident in the store-room
where she had encountered the housekeeper;
but circumstances shaped themselves, for be-
fore retiring who should be announced but
Burke himself direct from London. The
housekeeper made her appearance all smiles
and furbelows to wait upon him, and Miss
Conway sent a message into the supper room
to say she would like to speak with him as
soon as 'twas convenient for him to see her
in the drawing-room.
	When the boy who brought the message
left the room Mrs. Burke in an undertone
addressing her husband's cousin, "I know
what Miss Conway wants with you, its to
tell you I've refused to obey her orders,
coming interfering with me after I've been
mistress here all these years, and never took
no orders from anybody but Sir Edward
himself."
	"And do you say you refused to obey
Miss Conway? why she's in charge here!
its only against yourself, do you want to be
dismissed from this place? I shan't help you
if you get notice to go—its for your interest
to keep in with the new bosses, there's not
a shilling left in the will for any of you;
but I've no doubt you've saved up a pretty
penny while you've been in service, couldn't
be otherwise, what use have you got for
money with neither chick nor child? No!
Mrs. Burke you'd better keep the place and
be respectful."
	Mrs. Burke was very much crestfallen
after this conversation, she had counted up-
on this relative of her husband's in case of
any emergency arising, and he had not
shown as much feeling for her as one
might expect from a stranger, but she made
up her mind that she wouldn't leave him a
penny if she should die tomorrow. This
was her verdict.
	Burke the solicitor went to the drawing-
room prepared to do battle in her defence, if
necessary however for he too thought the
Baronet might have remembered his faith-
fnl servants in his will.
	He was totally disarmed when Miss Con-
way appeared, and was ready to agree with
her in everything. In fact she was so cool
and dignified he could not but admire her
manner of dealing with the difficulty. She
said very little but he understood how em-
barrassing her position was, and that she
was really the only one in the house who
could exercise any authority in a way to
command respect, and he could see plainly
that if Mrs. Burke revolted the whole re-
tinue of servants (save perhaps one or two)
would join with her, and the household
turned topsy-turvy and the going to London
would be stopped, and out of that he figured
on turning this London season to his own
account.
	The morning brought the housekeeper
early to Miss Conway's room, "to talk
things over and know what was expected"
she said, but Jane could easily see she was
very much upset and anxious to conciliate.

[Column 2]

The interview was in every way satisfactory,
and Jane really felt much more at ease than
if the cloud that hung over the domestic
department had not burst.
	Two or three days sufficed to settle Mr.
Burke's business, and off he set to see after
the final arrangements for the house in town.
Sir Edward had never kept a house in Lon-
don always taking handsome apartments
suited to a single gentleman who only
wanted to mingle with his own "set."
	Lady Anna was all excitement and her
cousin feared nervous prostration but the
Doctor was watchful and gave her strict
orders and also warned Maitland in regard
to the matter, telling him that she was so
frail he would need to avoid everything
calculated to trouble or to weary her.
Young men don't comprehend such mat-
ters very well, and young Walton was very
ignorant about girls having never had any
sisters and his ideas about women were all
formed by his own mother, whose natnral
constitution was excellent.
	Lady Anna was almost ill by the time
they were ready to go and her cousin felt
reluctant about leaving home, remember-
ing the last journey and the terrible fatality,
but the Doctor consented to travel with his
ward and see her safe to her journey's end,
and that reconciled Miss Conway to leaving
home. The young girl improved as they
went by easy stages, the cold bracing air
gave her an appetite and when they arrived
she looked more like herself and Dr. Bland
felt no reluctance in leaving her in her
cousin's care.


