[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | August | Issue: 3 | Title: THE PIONEERS. | Author: Unknown]

			THE PIONEERS.
A TRACKLESS wilderness, a dreary waste
	Of dead gray valleys, and dark arid peaks;
A voiceless solitude, whose inland sea
	Moves to no tides, but level lying, speaks
Decay accomplished; passionless despair;
Sightless, emotionless, deep silence everywhere. 

Deep silence; save for howl of famished wolf,
	That came, red-eyed to slake his burning thirst,
Where but a thread of water silent slipt
	Between high banks that bent like things ac-
curst
Doomed to look ever; though it never sips,
Dying of thirst, deep dust upon the lips.

No bright bird's wing stirs all the pulseless air;
	No cloud of promise dots the brazen sky;
No flowers lift their faces from the earth;
	The sunbeams fall upon the ground to die.
All is as void, and of as little worth,
As when God's voice from chaos called the earth.

But hark! A human sound the silence breaks,
	Down through a mountain pass they fainting 
came

[Column 2]
A second Israel to a "promised land;"
	And their great Moses-Brigham Young his
name-
Paused in this desert; with uplifted hand
Invoked God's blessing on the faithful band.

They came-from Nauvoo's battered walls they
		came,
	Out-cast, despoiled, their friend and prophet
		slain,
Paused in this desert-but God's answer came
	To that petition in bright showers of rain,
The promised fruitage of another year,
	Gleamed like a rainbow in each crystal tear.

Truth, planted freedom's ensign on the peaks;
	Faith, struck the plow deep in the desert's dust
Love, nerved the arm to labor and be strong.
	God's promises, kept bright their holy trust;
Peace in their souls made patience sweet and
	strong,
Good will to man, moved all their hearts to song.

Because for His sake, they had borne reproach,
	Nature's rich bosom thrilling over flowed;
Milk, honey, wine, replaced the desert's waste,
They reaped abundance where they little sowed.
Birds sang in rapture; where the gaunt wolf
	stood-
Was a fair city and a pleasant wood.

The rock-ribbed mountains yielded up their
		stores
	Of salt and silver, copper, gold and coal,
And craftsmen came from every land and clime;
	Fair wisdom purely filled her golden bowl;
Bright water gushed from earth in living rills,
Their cattle sleek, fed on a thousand hills.

Some of those pioneers with us remain
	Made strong by truth-for truth and life are
one. 
They see fair Temples lift their sacred walls,
	The pure unselfish work of love begun.
And earth has everything to give and lend,
To those who made the God of Hosts their
		friend.

Like her who travailed in the wilderness,
	Great were the issues born of toil and pain;
As those sad Moors, who fair Grenada left
	They hold the keys to their beloved Spain.
And back again, led by the hand of God
Their children's feet shall press Missouri's sod.
