[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | August | Issue: 3 | Title: PIONEER DAY. | Author: Unknown]

PIONEER DAY.

	THE anniversary of the 24th of July, 1847, will
always be a day of days to the Pilgrims who mi-
grated hither during that eventful year and those
who followed them later, also to their children
and children's children down to the latest genera-
tion. For the sake of the children it seems im-
portant to celebrate in some appropriate way,
either publicly or in families by gathering to-
gether, this day; that the brave men and women
who crossed the trackless plains and marked out
a path for their friends to follow may be held in
sacred remembrance, also because they raised
the standard of liberty on the mountain's top, the
flag of our country, the stars and stripes dear to
every American heart, and it floated to the breeze
for the first time in the great American desert
from the highest peak adjacent and because of
this, it was named Ensign Peak. This fact should
be well established in the minds of the rising
generation, let them hear it from the lips of those
who are living witnesses, for the pioneers are fast
passing away.
	Of the three pioneer women not even one re-
mains, but their memory is dear to the hearts of
their sisters, women who know how loyal and
true they were and how fearless in the cause of
right. And what of the hundreds who followed
after? many little graves as well as larger ones
marked the passage over the great mountains
and across the desert plains. The mothers who
laid their little babes down by the wayside, know-
ing that they could not mark the spot only tem-
porarily, and knowing too that wolves and beasts
of prey ranged over the wild and desolate country.
What sublime faith these Pilgrim mothers had,
none know save those who shared with them the
toils and burdens of those wearisome days. These
things and a thousand other memories arise when
one reflects upon the early dangers and hard-
ships encountered by those, who left their all the
world held dear, to seek out a refuge, a resting
place where they might be free in the exercise of
their religion.
	The privations of those early days are too
severe to be dwelt upon today, and the blessing
and prosperity that has attended this people in
the valleys of the mountains is something almost
beyond belief to those who know the small be-
ginnings. The generation now growing up will
never be able to comprehend the struggles and
difficulties of those times in past history, unless
they should go into a new country as destitute as
this people came hither.
	There is nothing in this world but religious
faith engrafted in the soul, that could sustain and
bind together a band of people, as the Latter-day
Saints were sustained and united under the most
trying and adverse circumstances. Let those who
know not such eternal principles scoff and deride

[Column 2]

if they choose, but they who have passed
through these ordeals know that only the most
implicit trust in the Divine source of all good,
could ever have helped them to endure the trials
and perils incident to the journeyings and settle-
ment of these mountain vales. No wonder they
are dear and sacred, for here this people have
lived and suffered and labored and toiled, and
fasted and prayed; sometimes in adversity with
starvation staring them in the face, but through
the blessing of God relief has come and the
heavens have smiled again, and the devastating
insects have been swept away. Many blessings
have been vouchsafed the Saints, and the early
and the latter rain, though the old mountaineers
declared that nothing could be raised here be-
cause there was no rain. Each year almost the
rain has increased and the irrigation has been
lessened, the desert does verily blossom as the
rose, and many miracles have been wrought in
behalf of the Saints if they would but understand.
	In contemplating even the small work done by
women in an organized capacity for that is al-
most the only way to estimate it, we repeat in re-
flecting even upon this small proportion of the
great whole, one cannot but wonder how so
much means has been accumulated,and after dis-
tributing to those in need, and to other worthy
purposes how much is still held in trust for future
use. The women of Utah have performed their
part nobly in all the various places, and some of
them have been very trying ones, and have never
shrunk from fulfilling their part pf the work of
building up the country from the days the pio-
neers landed here down to the present time.
	The experience has enriched them in wisdom,
such as is needed to do battle in times of great
struggles, and this experience, much of it, relates
to the inner life, and the hearts have been edu-
cated more perhaps than the brain, but in this
day of great learning and knowledge of all arts
and sciences the heart is too often left unculti-
vated. Yes, women here have borne their share of
the burdens that attended the opening up of a
new and barren country, and meantime by their
comforting and tender words, by their more
simple and childlike faith have stimulated their
husbands,brothers and sons in many a dark hour.
	Ye who come today and see the fruits of the
industry, thrift and diligence of these gray-haired
pioneers, do not fail to do them the reverence
they deserve,and do not forget that through it all
the women stood by them sharing every hard-
ship with the courage and fortitude of the Pilgrim
mothers of New England, for except for the
heroic trust in God that animated them, they
knew no more where their feet were to be
planted than did those who crossed the mighty
ocean and landed on Plymouth Rock.
	We know whereof we speak when we make
this assertion and hundreds can testify to this
fact. The time may come, and it is devoutly to be
hoped for, when these things will be considered
differently to what they are today, and the part
women have taken in opening up the desert lands
will be fully recognized.
	I know it may be said, other lands have been
colonized and the wilderness cleared and so forth,
but that was different, in this one respect if no
other, that they went prepared and thoroughly
equipped; whereas this people were not given
time to make the necessary preparations for the
journey from Nauvoo, and so scanty was the food
that hundreds died the first year after leaving the
borders of civilization. It was under the most
trying circumstances that they traveled West-
ward, and misrepresentation and falsehood
seemed to follow them even in their wanderings.
	The greatest consolation is only this, "Blessed
are ye when men shall revile you, and persecute
you and shall say all manner of evil against you
falsely, for my name's sake, for so persecuted they
the prophets which were before you."


