[Vol4 | October 1917 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde]

Home Science Department. Janette A. Hyde. CONSERVATION AND CITY WAR GARDENS. In garden movement not only affects the people of Utah, but it is very far-reaching in it scope, as we feel that in every state where our Latter-day Saint women arc organized into Relief Societies, our method of home-gardening, introduced four years ago, in this department, has laid the strong foundation for this work. We had the right inspiration. It did not require the declaration of war in the United State-, however, to interest our sisters in economy and conservation. Since 1913 especially, the Relief Society has operated this department for the encouragement of this very practical and economic side of home-life. We know, before the United States Government asked the people to take up this question, that there was too much waste land in every city and village, that the people were not producing enough, that families as individual-, were depending upon someone else to supply them with the foodstuffs which they, themselves, should he producing. MRS. GARDEN ON NIK CITY STREET. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 573 We opened up a department in the first issue of the Relief Society Bulletin, known as Home Garden Work, and have kept this 'department, in connection with the Home Economic Work, ever since, having lessons written on the methods of fertilizing, seasons for planting, kinds of seeds to plant, etc. In fact, we specialized on every necessary detail for the success of carrying out these garden suggestions. The only difference in the projects undertaken by the Relief Society and the projects undertaken by the Government is that we not only utilized the space of the home garden hitherto uncultivated, but in many instances have encroached upon the spaces used by the city for parking. I have been asked by the Editor to write an account of my own experiences. In the early spring of the past season, the mrs. hyde's garden. big around my home, which is on a sloping hillside, and is 15 feet wide, had just been finished by the city. We, therefore, decided that the parking property could be used to good advantage, and we decided to plant such' vegetables as we felt would mature in a rather shady place, and would help to feed our family during the winter. ' We began immediately saving the eyes from the potatoes which were used by the family in the kitchen, thus conserving all of the potato. We, however, were not fortunate in using enough potatoes to furnish the seed for planting this particular piece of ground which is 2 by 5 rods. ' We purchased from the city seed department $2.10 worth of extra potato seed. This was planted, leaving a small space of 2 rods square on this same curbing for string" beans. Our potatoes, from all indications, will yield about 15 bushels. The beans produced proved useful for our summer use. 
 This land would have been put into lawn, which would have required extra water and care, with no results as to conservation of food. As it is, we will have sufficient potatoes for our winter use, and already have had sufficient beans for our table for the summer season. In the little back kitchen garden, size 2% rods by 2 rods, (which we have always cultivated, but not with the success we have had this year) we have been able to raise enough fresh early vegetables for our family of five, besides giving us 10 quarts of very delicious young beets which have been put up for our winter use; also three quarts of carrots, besides having all the early carrots and beets we could possibly consume. We planted a very fine variety of peas, turnips, radishes, onions, which was ample for our consumption during their productive season. As soon as the radishes were exhausted, the MRS. HYDE S GARDEN. ground was fertilized, and sugar beets were put in their place. These will furnish later beets for table use, as well as supplying more for winter use. We have, always, in the kitchen garden, a bed of mint under the water tap near the foundation of the house, a nice bed of parsley, which not only supplies us for our use in cookery, but furnishes three other families as well. We have planted several bunches of English chives, which are so delicious for soup and gravies; five bunches of rhubarb, one row of sweet dill for pickles and flavorings, as well as several nice bunches of horse radish. Then, too, we keep a number of bunches of sage and summer savory. Five of these are permanently grown in our kitchen garden. After the general planting in the form of early vegetables was completed, we still desired a space for cucumbers, but owing HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 575 to the obstruction of the rays of the sun, we found the space we had left was very unfavorable. Hence we devised cucumber boxes which were set upon rocks and filled with sandy fertilized soil. In these we planted our ^ed. which later developed into wonderfully productive plants. From the box. we transplanted several vines in the space that had been occupied by onions, one of which grew and contain at one time, twenty small cucumbers. We will have all of the pickling cucumbers for our winter's supply of pickles from the producing vines in the open boxes. We really feel that this project was worth while. We gave our young son. who is eleven years of age, the task of watering and caring for the garden, allowing him the proceeds from the same, and up to date, in his own method of accounting, he has sold the family $8.00 worth of garden supplies. This does not include the potatoes, as the potatoes have not yet been harvested, In addition and we to are our leaving the garden regular for the which winter's was use.' maintained this year, we keep four laying hens, using the parings and refuse from the vegetables as part of their regular food. Then, too, we have one row in the kitchen garden of the old-fashioned marigolds which has kept our dining-room table supplied for the summer with flowers, and will furnish packages of seeds for friends and replanting next year. The illustrations and cuts, as shown in this article, are reproduced from the garden in its growing season. We feel that the results obtained from this small space are worth enumerating for the benefit of those who feel that city kitchen gardening is not worth while. The benefit to be derived from such a project is, in the first place, educational to the family, it is productive of thrift, and in a measure uses up the surplus energy of young children. It also creates a very pleasant addition for the family table; it stimulates a desire in children to want to be producers. It furnishes the family with plenty of fresh garden vegetables; it uses up the waste space that would otherwise be unsightly and filled with weeds; and above all, it creates a desire to give to the world something that would otherwise be waste and destruction. It creates a desire to conserve that which is so necessary to sustain life.