Inez Knight NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 227 x\llen, counselors. Mrs. Annie D. Palmer and Mrs. Ina Gee Hodson. Mrs. Allen has, for a number of years, been first counselor to Mrs. Keeler, where she has received valuable experience and training. Her deeply religious nature, with her education and broad experience as a traveler, both at home and abroad, have particularly fitted her for the new position to which she has been called. ]\Irs. Palmer is also a woman with a trained mind and wide experience and has had as well special training as a social worker. Her faith and intelligence will make her a valuable counselor to Mrs. Allen. Mrs. Ina Gee Hodson, who is a grand niece of the Prophet Joseph Smith and who possess vigor and activity, will fit admirably into her new position. St. Joseph Stake. The Relief Society of the St. Joseph Stake was reorganized early in January. Mrs. Sarah B. Moody, who had been president for less than a year and who had made an enviable record during that time, found it necessary to resign from her position because of change of residence. Superintendent ISIrs. ^Moody's of the Industrial School ofhusband Arizona,was appointed at Ft. Grant, Arizona, and Mrs. Moody was made Supervisory Matron to the Girls' Department. The friends of Air. and Airs. Aloody feel that the State of Arizona is to be congratulated on having, at the head of this school, a man and woman,so capable as Mr. and Mrs. Moody. The best wishes of the General Board go to Mrs. Moody in her new calling, and it is to be hoped that some time in the future she will be able to again take up active work among the officers of the Relief Society. The new officers chosen for the St. Joseph Stake Relief Society are: president, Airs. Josephine C. Kimball; counselors, Mrs. Inez H. Lee and Airs. Adelia Tyler; secretary, Airs. Hattie A. Tenney; treasurer, Airs. Emma R. Haywood. Mrs. Kimball has had a broad experience in Relief Society work. She was formerly stake secretary of the Relief Society and was, at the time of her appointement as president, first counselor to Airs. Aloody. She is capable and efficient, and will undoubtedly carry forward the work of her Stake with credit, both to the organization and to herself. Jancttc A. Hyde. Last season we were blessed with an over-abundance of fruit. Thousands of quarts of small fruits spoiled on bushes and trees for the want of organized help  both for picking and caring for the same. Tons of apples suffered the same fate, and for the same reason, and we watched the waste with helpless hands and sorrowful regrets at our utter incapacity to cope with the situation. A definite form of organization in community service centers suggests itself very properly at this time in order that we may be better prepared for the coming season's work. It is too late to organize when the fruit crop is ripened and ready for distribution, as the time spent in securing help is lost while such time could be spent in the gathering and caring of the fruit at the season when nature calls to us for assistance. Let us consider for a minute; a community center could be made out of Relief Society hall where from ten to fifteen small children could be supervised by one competent woman, thus releasing the mothers and older children in the home, for active service in the gardens where so much depends upon expert hands and quick action during the time of the rush season. Women and girls could be organized into help groups, automobiles and vehicles could be furnished by patriotic citizens to transport the pickers to and from the orchards, providing organizations had been previously called together and selected for these purposes before the time for action was necessary. We suggest such an organization to our