"Unto the Least of These"' By Frank C. Steele Martha Claydon stood in the door of the cottage watching the sun rise. For years she had snatched this cool, tranquil hour for herself. The Claydon family in the cottage, and the scores of other mill people in the cottages croweded along Montgomery street, still slept. The early morning stillness brooded over that long row of white and green, four-room houses, their east windows reflecting the rose-blazoned horizon. Far down the avenue intersecting Montgomery street, a street car rumbled, the first tram to make its appearance after the few fitful hours of traffic idleness between one and five o'clock. Back on the farm in Dodge county, long before the Claydons moved to Atlanta, Martha was always the first out of bed and first in the sweet-smelling pine woods. The sight of the sun, poised in its glory against the dew-cleansed sky, its light piercing the dense foliage and making the leaves and flowers sparkle like gems, was a constant inspiration to her. Unuttered dreams and longings it aroused, vague and fearful at first, later more sure and distinct. Martha reflected then and she reflected now: "This great sun brings to us each succeeding day a new birth with new opportunities and hopes. Henry, in there sleeping, doesn't know it. But it has come to me and I am thankful?this knowledge, this Voice whispering comfort and encouragement and an assurance of that Light which will some day come to me and mine, that Light and Peace which passeth all understanding." It was in the days of her young womanhood that Martha first heard that 'Peace of God which passeth all understanding." It was a precious hope dropped by a traveling preacher in Dodge county during a street meeting in the county seat. To Martha the simple message of this earnest, young man of God, was a revelation. She had clung to his promise like the shipwrecked mariner clings to a bit of driftwood. Peace! Martha had found little of it. Her wan face, old beyond its years, her hands, peeled and rough, her body worn by toil in the mill and the exacting duties of the family and home?these combined to tell the story of Martha Claydon. And yet there was a part of Martha that was not broken. This was her spirit and her spirit had never wavered. "T must cling to you, sun, for you keep the hope burning," mumbled Martha, standing in the doorway, her fingers clutching the door, her face encircled in a halo of sunlight. "UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE" 143 The waking world aroused her from her reverie. The sun was now a flaming ball far across the mass of roofs and chimneys and spires. A deep, hoarse whistle blew somewhere behind Montgomery street. Martha cast a last, longing look into the blue sky. Her hour was over. Like a mantle the spiritual dropped from her. She was now Martha Claydon, factory woman and wife and mother to those who loved her in their own way, but who did not, could not, understand. Martha, quietly and mechanically, lit the cordwood in the kitchen stove, made the coffee, mixed the biscuit and placed it in the oven, covered the bottom of a frying pan with slices of bacon and filled a glass pitcher with cane syrup. "Henry, get up, breakfast's nearly ready. Call Eva May, Sarah Jane and Wilbur. And Henry, please don't keep the food waiting. Get up now and wash." Minutes later the Claydons surrounded the white kitchen table bolting hot biscuit, black coffee and odorous shreds of pork. Their breakfast fare never changed. Martha had once tried to vary it in conformity to a schedule she read in the Sunday paper, but Henry had grumbled about "these new-fangled notions about eating" being expensive and not intended for mill folk. Martha never ventured to experiment again. The family ate in silence until Wilbur revived an old subject by saying: ''Ma's bin at it again, pa. She's bin lookin' at the sun?I kin tell by the look in her eyes." "Yes, I know, and you needn't be tellin' me, and Martha, you all need that extra hour's sleep and there you go wastin' it lookin' at the sun as though you were?well?a leetle bit? queer." "Go on, pa, I'm used to it." "Ma, be reasonable," rejoined the son, as he helped himself to another slice of bacon; "you're agettin' on in years and pa wants you to take life as easy as you kin. Instead, you git up to meet the sun. Gee, the sun to me means work, a heap o' work, six days in the week, fifty-two weeks in the year." '""My son, the sun to your mother means hope." There was a laugh. "Hope o' what, ma?" "Of deliverance." The rest of the Claydons dumbly surveyed the mother. Henry found words at last: "Ma, these notions are doin' yer no good. We're poor folk, ma, don't forgit that. God intended fer us to be poor. He loves the poor?" "Yes, pa, God loves the poor, perhaps, but he doesn't love poverty. He doesn't love to see His children live like beasts. He wants them to be free. Free, pa, not from honest work?I guess 
 I've done my share of that and I'm proud of it?but free from poverty, pa, poverty of body, of mind, of soul." Martha's face wore a suggestion of the warmth her heart felt as she tried to make them understand?understand just a little. "Ma, it sorta hurts to hear yer talk like that. Don't I want yer to go to the movies on Saturdays and to church??" "Yes, Henry, you do the best you can for us. I'm not complaining. But I dislike the movies we get out here, pa, you know that, and the church?well, does the church give us poor folks very much to tie to?" "Rev. Chappell is a powerful preacher, Martha, and it's the old time preachin' we git, not the new stuff, they say they are handin' out in the Tabernacle every Sunday. I guess Bethel Baptist church is good enough fer me, Martha." "It won't be, pa, when the Light comes. And it's going to come, Henry, it's going to come." "Ma, hush; yer goin'?" "Shut up, Wilbur Claydon. Ma's all right and don't you get smart," cried Eva May, savagely, drowning the rasping tones of her brother. "Eva May's right, Wilbur. This isn't yer affair," said the father, turning to the youth, putting on his cap to leave. Then: "But, ma, folks are atalkin'." Martha made ne reply. Soon after Henry's parting suggestion the Claydon house was still. The blinds were drawn. The older members of the family, including the mother, were at their places in the mill. The younger ones soon would depart for the neighborhood school and Montgomery street would drowse through the long, sultry hours of the July day. Miles across the city on Fair street, later the same day, two young ladies were hastily removing hats and gloves in an effort to find relief from the pitiless heat. "Sister Fairley, this has been such a hard, wearisome day," one of the missionaries?for missionaries they were, an attractive girl just entering her twenties, cried languidly as she dropped into an easy chair and reached for a glass of water. "You know I have been wondering seriously today whether our work is worthwhile, whether or not we are doing any good." "Why, Sister Elliott, you must combat that spirit. Try hard not to be discouraged, I know many of the people we call on are indifferent, some are even rude, and the weather is hot." "Hot, hot?I should say it is hot! Really, Sister Fairley, I was on the verge of fainting several times while tracting Montgomery street. The sun beat down on those bare, little cottages in fiendish glee. Talk about misery! The houses I entered "UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE" 145 were like ovens, kiddies crying, mothers at the mill?O, it was awful." "You paint a vivid picture, Sister Elliott, and a true one. But remember, these poor folk have souls, they are our Father's children and entitled to the blessings of salvation through the gospel. There are thousands of honest, splendid souls among them," replied the senior missionary, earnestly. "They care nothing for our message. Poverty has killed every spark of interest in anything higher than their own simple, colorless life. It is useless to try to reason with them, they simply haven't the mental capacity or the desire to learn. I tell you, it is a waste of time going up one street and down another, giving away our tracts only to have them thrown away?wasted." "Thrown away, perhaps, but hardly wasted. In fact, I think very few of our tracts in this field are thrown away. Christ's message, you know, was rejected, yet who dare say that one precious act, one saving word of His, was in vain? Christ had a definite message to give to the world, so do we missionaries. - He was scorned, ridiculed, abused, cast out and slain?O, the tragedy, the pathos of it all!?yet he did not complain or murmur. No sacrifice was too great, no soul too lowly to be sent away without his ministration." "Sister Fairley, you are getting 'preachy' again, and I don't feel like I can endure it today. I guess it's wrong, but I simply can't tract in those mill areas and I won't. Why don't we try to interest people of education and culture, people who can grasp the principles of the gospel?I mean the better class?" "The better class! My dear, Christ knew no better class. They were all sheep who needed the Good Shepherd. Did he not say that inasmuch as ye 'did it unto the least of these, my children, ye did it unto me?' No, it is the experience of the church in all ages that it is the poor who receive the gospel, the rich rarely." "Please don't argue. I have my own views and am entitled to them and I maintain that we spend too much time working in the poor sections of the city. I can't do it. I never did like this field and this southern climate is killing." There was a silence. The younger girl had flung herself in a heap on the bed. There she broke into tears. In her hand was a letter from home. This she had forgotten in the surge of feelings aroused in the discussion of missionary work. Her companion, Julia Fairley, quietly went about the little apartment preparing for dinner. The practical Julia knew what a tasty meal with clean linen, sparkling china and silver, and a bouquet of freshly-cut roses from the backyard garden of "Grandma" Cobb, their landlady, could do in restoring the morale of this temperamental 
 girl, the president of the mission had entrusted to her two months ago. Lavaun aroused herself after her first flood of tears had dried on her troubled face. Adjusting her hair, she sat up and looked around the "chummy" little room.. "Don't forget your letter, Sister Elliott," reminded her companion, calling from the kitchenette, where she was slicing tomatoes. ?You know the magic of a letter from home." Julia hoped it would be filled with encouragement. O, that the folks "back home" realized the importance of a newsy, cheerful letter to a missionary in the field! So thought Julia as she catitiously watched two nervous fingers break open the seal. As the younger girl began to read her face grew resentful and set. Without replacing the letter in the envelope, she thrust it in the pocket of her skirt and arose. Reaching for her hat she jerked it into place and before Julia could intercept her, she half ran from the room, down the long flight of stairs, through the front door and out into Fair street, now shadowy in the slowly gathering gloom. Martha was the first of the Claydon family to return home in the evening. She invariably left the mill in the vanguard of the army of hands which nightly poured from the huge, brick factory. It was a relief to Martha to get out where the air was pure and things were green and growing. Then the mother knew the supper problem faced her for while Betty Jane was a mighty clever girl for her age, there were still many culinary tasks she could not do. After making a few purchases of groceries at the chain store on the corner of Montgomery and Marietta streets, Martha picked her way along the sidewalk, dodging schools of playing children, home-bound workers, white and colored, and others milling up and down the now crowded street. The sun poured its stifling evening heat into Montgomery street and Martha wiped the moisture from her face as she neared her home to be welcomed by the younger Claydons. Reaching the porch Martha, prompted by habit, looked into the mail box, extracting a circular, a bill from a sewing machine company, a sample package of corn meal, a letter for Eva May, from a girl friend in Miami, and a little pamphlet which Martha at once recognized as a religious tract. THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST AND EVENTS TO PRECEDE IT. By Elder B. H. Roberts Martha's eyes scanned the title page. It was only another of the many tracts flooding the country in an effort to stem the "UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE" 147 growing tide of doubt and open infidelity among thoughtful people weary of the vague, fantastic theories of life and death advanced by the sectarian ministry, she thought. Religion attracted Martha, but the churches repelled her. To the rational mind of this woman of the mill, the Church as she knew it was out of touch with life. Yearnings for knowledge on the vital things she had gone to numerous altars only to turn away in disappointment and disgust. She had begged for bread, they had given her a stone, a cold, unnatural, obsolete thing, as unsatisfying as the so-called rationalism she had heard preached in the uptown Forum. Yet hope had not died in the breast of Martha Claydon. That big, wonderful Something?that "Peace which passeth all understanding"'?would some day come to her. This thought was the peg on which she hung all her spiritual dreams. Martha read the opening paragraph of the tract. It had a different ring from any sitnilar literature that had come under her notice. "Of all events that will take place in the immediate future the. Most important to mankind is the glorious appearance of the Son of God," it read. MHastily turning the leaves, her eyes fell on the closing paragraph. The words were penetrating: "Despise not this testimony and warning, because he who bears it is a representative of a cause and people everywhere spoken against. Remember that Satan has ever opposed the work of God and those who labor to establish it. If he did so in former ages, will not this opposition be more fierce in the dispensation when the work of God is to become triumphant, resulting in the overthrow of the powers of darkness and binding them? Such, it would seem, are the plain dictates of reason? such are the facts. Be not deceived, then, reader, whoever you may be, by the infamous falsehoods in circulation about the Latter-day Saints, but examine these things with a prayerful heart that you may know of their truth and escape the calamity that shall befall those who 'reject the counsels of God against themselves, Following these impressive words were others announcing the meeting place of the church and an open air service Saturday night on the corner of Marietta street and Jackson avenue. The woman hesitated. Once she made a gesture of indifference as if anxious to cast aside the tract. But again she looked at it, then post it into the pocket of her checkered skirt and entered the ouse. That night when the little Claydons were enjoying their healthful, pre-midnight sleep and their older brothers and sisters were imbibing their usual week-end thrill at the movies, Martha read with care the "Mormon" tract from cover to cover. At her elbow was her Bible. She was still studying the booklet 
 when her husband sauntered in from his nightly ramble up Marietta street as far as the Star Pool Parlors. He gave his wife the customary greeting: "Come on, ma, let's get a few winks o' sleep 'fore mornin'." "Very well, pa." Ten minutes later the tiny white light in the Claydon cottage on Montgomery street was switched off. It was Saturday afternoon, the afternoon following the unceremonious exit of Lavaun Elliott from the missionary apartment. The previous night had been one of horrors for Julia Fairley, her companion. She had vainly searched the neighborhood. Then she notified the elders. They made inquiries and weighed the wisdom of advising mission headquarters and of enlisting the aid of the city police. Fatigued in body and apprehensive in mind, Julia had returned to the deserted apartment. It seemed hours, the lonely vigil for Lavaun, who had appeared, calm and uncommunicative, shortly before midnight. Few words had been said, the runaway missionary making an incidental though informative remark about the -play at the Atlanta. She had kissed her companion when she discovered a sympathetic arm encircling her and leading her into the tiny bedroom with its light softly shaded, and its air agreeably tinged with the odor of roses from a nearby garden. The afternoon wore on. There was no break in the heat wave, the evening papers telling of suffering in some parts of the city and unprecedented heat records in the downtown section. The missionary girls, their Saturday pressing and cleaning and writing done, were seated on the upstairs veranda, reading. Looking up from the current issue of the Liahona, Julia studied the ruminative face of her companion, absorbed in the Music and Drama page of the Journal. "There's a street meeting tonight, Sister Elliott, on the corner of Jackson and Marietta, and President Graves particularly desires that we be there to assist with the singing," she ventured. There was no answer. "We'll have an early supper, then take the car ahead of the elders in order to give us time to call at Sister Pearce's to see Lucy. She isn't at all well, you know, and they are really alarmed about her. "T'm not going to this street meeting," was the quick comeback. It was another challenge, for defiance was written in the eyes that met those of the senior missionary. "Such utter bondage?work, work every day with no relief, not even on a furiously hot Saturday. I can't endure this any longer, Sister Fairley, no recreation, a show once a month, a "UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE" 149 cottage meeting or something every time a great musician or actor comes to the city. What chance has one to improve? The folks at home expect a missionary to be so tremendously transformed on their return?they look for a superman or superwoman, almost. And one should take advantage of the opportunity to learn and to absorb a little culture. God expects us to. I've heard it preached. But here?what do we do? I needn't tell you, you know. Look at this announcement. Josef Hoffmann at the Auditorium tonight. O, how I've longed, even prayed, to hear him. Does President Graves know he is to play tonight? I'd say he doesn't. He is positively dead to art. And even if he did know he'd arrange a meeting or visit in the mill district among those simple, staring people. It's too much, Sister Fairley, they ask too much. Then, then I'm lonely and unhappy. Dad scolds me in his letters, you think I'm a lost sheep, or something else terrible, and the elders don't understand me." "T think I understand, Sister Elliott, your craving for art, music, the glamor of the world. These have their place?I love them, too?but more, O, so much more, I love this mission, this call to service among people who are starving for that Something we the Latter-day Saints alone possess?the gospel in its entirety, coupled with the holy priesthood to officiate in its ordinances. We have the Truth to give the world. That is why our work is the biggest, noblest, most vital in the world. I think you ought to go to the meeting tonight. I have been in the field a year and a half and these open-air meetings are wonderful faithpromoters, I have found." "A year and a-half! You lucky, lucky girl. No, it's final. I'm going to hear Hoffmann at the Auditorium, I may never get the chance again." "But, Sister Elliott, it would be breaking counsel to go to the concert. Please don't do it." The other girl smiled and behind that smile seemed to loom the challenge of the evil one. "Tt doesn't matter, Sister Fairley. See this letter? It is to the president asking either for a release to go home or a transfer to New York. I simply can't carry on here with everyone suspicious of me and talking about me, and as for my work?it hasn't counted for that." And she snapped her finger. Downstairs, the door bell rang. Down the hall shuffled the feet of "Grandma" Cobb. The door opened, a person entered, mounted the stairs, approached the door of the missionary apartment and rapped. The girls came in from the veranda and faced a woman in a plainly cut summer dress of muslin and a hat of last year's vintage. A spray of violets in her dress suggested a certain daintiness. She carried a sun shade. The hands that held it 
 were not hands that would have caught the eye of an artist, unless he sought a model for honesty and toil. Her eyes were clear and frank; her voice proved soft and warm and glowed with a richness that marked her as superior. "Good evening, ladies," the visitor said. "Good evening. Won't you please come in?" said Julia. "Thank you." She was shown a chair in the little living room. "Are you the 'Mormon' missionary girls?" "Why, yes, we are proud to say we are." "Then you are the girls I came miles in the heat to see." "It is an oppressive day. Won't you have a drink?" "Thank you?yes." The visitor drank the water during a somewhat awkward silence. "The water was refreshing. It was thoughtful of you, miss." Then: "I won't keep you waiting longer. Friday?that was yesterday?I came home from the mill and found in the mail box a little tract, 'The Second Coming of Christ.' I was about to throw it away when my eyes became riveted on the closing paragraph and something seemed to burn within me. So I kept it and read it and reread it that evening. I read it again this morning and resolved to find the 'Mormon' missionaries. I could hardly wait for the tract sounded like the sermon of a young preacher I heard thirty years ago in Dodge county, my old home. I found your Church, but it was locked. A boy directed me here." She stopped and wiped her eyes. Then continued: "T knew I was in the right place as soon as I saw this young lady"?and she pointed to Lavaun; "for, you see, I had a dream last night. In this dream I saw this young lady tracting our street, going from house to house, and becoming very disheartened and miserable. When she came to my little home she paused and was about to pass by, apparently thinking we were not home as our blinds were drawn. But she didn't. She put a tract in our mail box, then passed on down the street for home. Yes, Miss, you are the girl who came very close to withholding from us this wonderful gospel." "And you are from what street?' Lavaun faltered ? fusedly. The girl's face was white and drawn and she clutched at the newspaper in her hands. "Montgomery street." "Montgomery street!" ? "Yes, Miss, but don't feel so badly about what I said. You did call at our door and that is what interests us." "And your name?' asked Lavaun. | "Claydon?Martha el And you were sent by Go to my door." "UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE" 151 "Martha Claydon," Lavaun seemed to be wrapped in thought. Then her face cleared, and in an outburst of relief, and joy, she ran to the puzzled woman in the chair and taking her hands and kissing them, cried: "If you are Martha Claydon from Dodge county, my father preached the sermon that started you thinking about the gospel. For I have heard him speak of your father who once saved him from a mob. My dear Mrs. Claydon, you say God sent me to your door. Surely, He sent you to mine, sent you for reasons known fully to Him, known partially to my dear companion.' It was Julia's turn now to receive the young missionary's embrace. "T''ll be ready any time to catch the car for the street meeting, Sister Fairley," Lavaun said, smiling through her tears. "What a remarkable day it has been!" Julia exclaimed. "It has become a sacred day to me," said Lavaun reverently. Then: "Sister Claydon, we want you to help us with the singing at our street meeting tonight." And she did.