.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 165
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in May)
CHARLES G. D. ROBERTS
Charles G. D. Roberts, Canada's outstanding poet, appears to have descended from a nest of song birds as "the Roberts family of Fredricton, New Brunswick, is Canada's most distinguished literary family." He was the eldest son. His birth occurred January 10, 1860, at Douglas, North County, New Brunswick, Canada. He was educated at the Fredricton Collegiate School and at the University of New Brunswick where he took his B. A. Degree in 1879 with honors. In 1881 he was made a Master of Arts and in 1906 received the honorary LL. D. He appears to have specialized in mental and moral science and political economy. He was twenty-one years old when he married Miss Mary I. Fenety, daughter of the Queen's Printer of New Brunswick. In 1883 and 1884 he was editor of the Week, Toronto, Ontario; in 1885 to 1888, Professor of English and French literature in Kings College, Windsor, Nova Scotia; in 1888 to 1895 Professor of Economics in the same college.
Canadians look back to the Confederation, the fiftieth anniversary of which they celebrated last year, as a very important epoch in their history, and the anniversary of that event is like our Fourth of July, a red letter day in their history. Roberts rose to prominence and became popular because he was everywhere hailed as the "Voice" of the Canadian Confederacy. To use the words of J. D. Logan, "he became the voice of one crying in the wilderness trying to make straight the paths of the Canadian poet." Prior to this time the people had delighted in the perfection of Mr. Roberts verse, for it had been with Canada as with all new countries, they had produced much verse which was of little moment because it lacked artistic structure and finish. Now they discovered that their finished versifier was prophet as well as poet. He called to his countrymen in the following language:
O Child of Nations, giant-limbed, Who stand'st among the nations now Unheeded, unadorned, unhymned, With unanointed brow?
How long the ignoble sloth, how long The trust in greatness not thine own? Surely the lion's brood is strong To front the world alone!


But Mr. Roberts did not remain in Canada to follow up his clarion call. An offer from New York took him there where he became Associate Editor of the Illustrated American. Since that time it has not been necessary for him to do either academic or editorial work. Consequently, he has devoted himself to writing and publishing many books which have added duly to his fame. When the last century closed he had written and published seven books of verse. In 1901 he selected what he regarded as his best poems and published them in one volume. This, of course, is his outstanding volume of poetry. He lived in London, England, a good many years and obtained the regard of both English and American critics to a larger extent than any other writer of Canadian verse. In September, 1914, he enlisted as a trooper in the Legion of Frontiersmen. Later he was promoted to a captaincy in the King's Liverpool Regiment, and still later he attained to the rank of major. We have a poem called "Cambrai and Marne" that grew out of this experience. A few stanzas will indicate the graphic power of his description:
Between the hedges and the town The cursing squadrons we rode down; To stay them we outpoured our blood Between the beetfields and the wood.
In that red hell of shrieking shell Unfaltering our gunners fell; They fell, or ere that day was done, Beside the last unshattered gun.
Our feet, astonished, learned retreat, Our souls rejected still defeat; Unbroken still, a lion at bay, We drew back grimly from Cambrai.
In blood and sweat, with slaughter spent, They thought us beaten as we went, Till suddenly we turned, and smote The shout of triumph in their throat.
By cumbered road and desperate ford How fled their shamed and harassed horde! Shout, Sons of Freemen, for the day When Marne so well avenged Cambrai!
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 167
In 1925 Dr. Roberts returned to Canada where he was made President of the Toronto branch of the Canadian Authors' Association. Last summer he attended a convention of western poets held in the city of Seattle, Washington. He was, no doubt, the outstanding figure of that convention. With many years of achievement crowning his snowy locks, he stood amongst them, the dean of Canadian Letters, and the young authors recognized in him one who had had much experience in life; one who had inspired an entire group of Canadian writers; in fact, the one who was the leading spirit and inaugurator of the first renaissance in Canadian Literature.
With all due respects to the many subjects Dr. Roberts has made use of in the large number of poems he has written his critics are rather generally agreed that his most penetrating work is evident in his treatment of nature. Consequently the remainder of the lesson will be devoted to that theme. In such poems as "Hill-Top Songs," "The Good Earth," "On the Road," "The Unknown City," "The Place of His Rest," "When the Cloud Comes Down the Mountain," and "Under the Pillars of the Sky," we have excellent examples of the poet's penetration and appreciation of the great outdoor world.
From "Hill-Top Songs" we quote the following:
When the lights come out in the cottages Along the shores at eve, And across the darkening water The last pale shadows leave;
And up from the rock-ridged pasture slopes The sheep-bell tinklings steal, And the folds are shut, and the shepherds Turn to their quiet meal;
And even here, on the unfenced height, No journeying wind goes by, But the earth-sweet smells, and the home-sweet sounds, Mount, like prayer, to the sky;

From "The Good Earth" we quote:
The smell of burning weeds Upon the twilight air; The piping of the frogs From meadows wet and bare;


O spring wind, sweet with love And tender with desire, Pour into veins of mine Your pure, impassioned fire!
O waters running free With full, exultant song, Give me, for outworn dream, Life that is clean and strong!
O springing things of green, O waiting things of bloom, O winging things of air, Your lordship now resume!
From "On the Road" we quote:
Ever just over the top of the next brown rise I expect some wonderful thing to flatter my eyes.
"What's yonder?" I ask of the first wayfarer I meet. "Nothing!" he answers, and looks at my travel-worn feet.
"Only more hills and more hills, like the many you've passed, With rough country between, and a poor enough inn at the last."
But already I am a-move, for I see he is blind, And I hate that old grumble I've listened to time out of mind.
At the crest of the hill I shall hail the new summits to climb. The demand of my vision shall beggar the largess of time.
For I know that the higher I press, the wider I view, The more's to be ventured and vision, in worlds that are new.
From "The Unknown City" we quote:
Cool are its streets with waters musical And fountains' shadowy fall.
With orange and anemone and rose, And every flower that blows Of magic scent or unimagined dye, Its gardens shine and sigh.
Its chambers, memoried with old romance And faery circumstance,? From any window love may lean some time For love that dares to climb.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 169
This is that city babe and seer divined With pure, believing mind.
This is the home of unachieved emprise. Here, here the visioned eyes Of them that dream past any power to do, Wake to the dream come true.
Here the high failure, not the level fame, Attests the spirit's aim.
Here is fulfilled each hope that soared and sought Beyond the bournes of thought.

John W. Garvin, who has written extensively of Canadian poets has this to say about Mr. Roberts' writings: "No other writer known to me has more intimately associated his mind and spirit with every object and phase of nature. His poetic descriptions are vividly real, and exquisite in beauty of expression, whilst his animal stories in felicitous literary English, in accuracy of particulars, in intensity of dramatic interest, are beyond criticism."
Questions and Problems
1. In what particular does Charles G. D. Roberts resemble our New England poets?
2. What does he mean when he writes: "Surely the lion's brood is strong to front the world alone!"
3. Select some colorful words from the extracts printed.
4. Poets often make use of contrast: Select some contrast in color in the line: "With orange and anemone and rose."
5. Tell of some people you know who are always expecting to see "just over the top of the next brown rise some wonderful thing to flatter" their "eyes."
6. Do you know any people who see nothing except "more hills and more hills" * * * "with rough country between and a poor enough inn at the last?"
7. If you know these two sorts of people, which would you prefer being? Why?
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in May)
THE CHILD?STUDY COURSE LESSON 5
The Child's Moral Development
Based on Chapter V: "The Child: His Nature and His Needs"
We come now, in this review of the different phases of


the child's growing personality, to a consideration of his moral development. Dr. Henry Neumann, who wrote this splendid chapter, is an international authority on the subject. He is instructor in the Ethical Culture School, New York City, and author of Moral Values and Secondary Education; Teaching American Ideals Through Literature and Education for Moral Growth.
A. WHAT IS CHARACTER? (Pages 89-91)
Character is defined as: "The sum of qualities or features, by which a person or a thing is distinguished from others; the aggregate of distinctive mental and moral qualities belonging to an individual or a race as a whole; the stamp of individuality impressed by nature, education, or habit; that which a person or thing really is; essential peculiarity; kind, sort; nature."
The question then is: How is character formed? The first principle of character development is this: character is affected by a multitude of factors?heredity, general health, food, home life, street life, school life, newspapers, movies, parents, companions, habits of thought, occupations, etc. To ensure a desirable character in a child, therefore, parents and teachers must control all of the factors which affect his moral development directly or indirectly. "There is no such thing as a distinct training in character apart from the rest of the child's development."
Questions
1. What is the practical difference between character and physique, intelligence, temperament. Personality, individuality, etc.?
2. Show, by a few examples, how the child's moral development is influenced by: a. Ancestral stock (heredity). b. Children's diseases. c. Nutrition. d. Sleeping habits. e. Companions. f. School. g. Brothers and sisters, companions, etc. h. Books, newspapers, etc. i. Commercialized recreation (e. G., the movies).
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 171
B. HARNESSING THE CHILD'S NORMAL DESIRES IN THE INTERESTS OF HIS MORAL DEVELOPMENT (Pages 91-96)
One of the best established principles of psychology is, to state it simply, a new habit can be established with considerable ease when it is "tacked on" to a strong desire. Let us say, for example, that Johnny has the habit of lying but, like other children, also loves recognition. The wise parent in such a case will capitalize Johnny's wish for recognition by creating an opportunity for him to be in the limelight when he tells the truth, and conversely denying him recognition when he persists in lying. The reader will readily convince herself of the truth of this general principle by taking each one of the following "normal desires" and working out an appropriate illustration, showing how the above principle can be widely used in the moral development of the child:
The desire for strength. The desire to earn a living. The desire to be like great people. The desire for fellowship. The desire for distinction and independence. The desire to lead. The will to power. The desire for justice. The tendency to kindness and mercy. The desire for sex. The desire for religion.
C. SOME GENERAL SUGGESTIONS (Pages 97-102)
There are two items in this part of the chapter which it seems appropriate to stress here. The first has to do with what might be called self-directed group activity. It can be stated as a general rule that children are much more sensitive to the opinions of other children in their own social group than they are to the opinions of their parents. It is this fact which has led to the wide-spread use of systems of self-government in schools and reformatories. The George Junior Republic, for instance, was built around this idea. Here, children governed themselves, as far as possible. Peculiarly enough, an interesting reform has grown out of this experiment. Thomas Mott Osborne became the most famous prison reformer in this country when he introduced


self-government into Sing Sing prison. The following incident illustrates the power of this principle. The Mutual Welfare League at Sing Sing was once asked to present one of its plays in a neighboring town. The prison management allowed the players to make the trip without guards. During the journey a storm arose which prevented the men from reaching their destination and which gave the men?most of whom were "lifers"?an excellent opportunity to escape. The following morning found every one of the prisoners back at the prison. Newspaper men inquired of the convicts why they didn't escape when they had the chance. Their reply is significant. "We were honor-bound to our fellow-prisoners, as well as to the warden, to return. Had we failed, they and their organization, would have been punished. We had no thought of escape."
The second item has to do with the influence of other personalities upon children. The best moral teacher, it is safe to say, is the one whose character is sound. Example is much more potent than precept. The psychological reason for this is that children are highly suggestible. They imitate, copy and emulate?sometimes very uncritically when young?the behavior patterns and models in their social world. This has led one writer (Dr. Henry C. King, former president of Oberlin College) to say, that "Character is caught, not taught." If this is true, then parents, teachers, and all who have responsibility for children, should themselves be superior characters and personalities.
Questions
1. What are the values and dangers in self-directing activities for children?
2. How much self-directing activity is possible for children in your community?
3. Give a few illustrations of the author's statement (page 99): "Untrained in the use of freedom, they (children) abuse it when it comes later."
4. Why is it poor psychology to say "don't" to a child?
5. Should as much care be exercised in the selection of religious teachers as of public school teachers? Explain.
D. THE PRINCIPLES OF CHARACTER EDUCATION (Pages 102-106)
Utah has made herself nationally famous for her work in character education. Credit for this is largely due to the leadership of Dean Milton Bennion, of the University of
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 173
Utah, who for many years was chairman of the Committee of Character Education of the National Education Association. The work of this Committee has been preserved in a bulletin of the U. S. Bureau of Education (1920, No. 7, price 15c). It seems worth while to give our readers the gist of Dean Bennion's Committee report. In this pamphlet the objectives of character education are stated as:
"1. To develop socially valuable purposes, leading in youth or early maturity, to the development of life purposes.
"2. To develop enthusiasm for the realization of these purposes; and coupled with this enthusiasm, intelligent use of time and energy.
"3. To develop the moral judgment?the ability to know what is right in any given situation.
"4. To develop the moral imagination?the ability to picture vividly the good or evil consequences to self and to others of any type of behavior.
"5. To develop all socially valuable age capacities of the individual, and to direct the resultant abilities toward successfully fulfilling all one's moral obligations.
"Investigations thus far warrant the conclusion that the prime factor in the development of any personality is the influence of other personalities. This fact gives emphasis to the conviction that character education is a problem of community life, and that all social institutions and social agencies should share cooperatively this responsibility.
"The school can by no means assume all the responsibility. The natural responsibility of parenthood and the intimate personal relations of the home at once suggest that this institution should be the primary factor in character development. Character development is also held to be one of the chief functions of the church; but, because of its present limited range of influence as compared with the schools, they may well assume responsibility next in importance to that of the home for the character training of the young."
The Committee favored a system of what is called direct moral teaching. On this point the report says: "Direct moral instruction is, to be sure, but one phase of moral education in the schools; it may be a minor phase, yet of sufficient importance to make its omission a serious handicap. In order to realize all the objectives of character or moral education, it seems that all the available means and methods must be utilized?home, school, church, state, vocations and general social life of the community with such methods as may be employed in each case. Some of the methods available to the school are:


"a. The example and personal influence of teachers and other school officers.
"b. Indirect moral instruction through each and all of the school studies.
"c. Direct moral instruction by groups and on some occasions through personal conferences.
"d. Student participation in the management of the school community?sometimes called student participation in government.
"e. All other varieties of extracurricular activities of the school; e. g. Assembly periods, debating, musical and dramatical performances, athletic contests, parties, etc."
Questions
1. What is the method of character education in the schools of your community? What constructive suggestions can you offer for its improvement?
2. What can the schools do to individualize character education?
3. How does your community deal with juvenile delinquents and others whose character development is obviously faulty?