The Centenary of the Birth of Henrik Ibsen It will be one hundred years on the 20th of March, 1928, since Henrik Ibsen, the great Norwegian dramatist, was born. He was a pathfinder, discovering new ways to do old things. He has very fittingly been called the Norwegian Shakespeare, and is generally allowed to be the greatest of all our modern dramatists. His greatest disciple is George Bernard Shaw, the man whose statements have such uncommon news value among contemporary men of letters. We are living in an age of realism. Ibsen was one of the first writers to give us a representation of what realism means in drama. A few days ago John Van Durten, the British critic and dramatist, who is the author of Young Woodley, stated that what Ibsen had done, to borrow an American phrase, was to "debunk" drama. In other words he has taken out of it the make-believe material and has attempted to show things as they actually exist. We are especially interested in Ibsen because his greatest play, The Doll's House, is a plea for a life for woman commensurate with the powers with which she is endowed. Nora had been educated to have superficial and incorrect notions of life. Consequently, when the disillusionment came she faced a terrible tragedy and precipitated a terrible tragedy for her family. Nevertheless, as she went forth from her home leaving husband and children she said, in so many words, I go forth to find out what the facts are concerning life. All of Ibsen's plays emphasize this idea. Shaw very whittily said that "Ibsen came to call the righteous (meaning the self-righteous) to repentance." It is notable that his country was among the first to grant suffrage to women, and that very early in the struggle Norwegian women were to be found in the Norwegian Parliament. It is 
 significant of the spirit of the nation, Ibsen taught, that the first woman to be made an ambassador to any country was to Norway. Russia had taken Ibsen and all his countrymen at their word and had appointed a woman to be its representative, and she was accepted. We feel it would be unpardonable neglect for a woman's magazine to pass by the centenary of Henrik Ibsen without drawing attention to the very notable work he did for the emancipation of women.