Letter to President Clarissa S. Williams January 31, 1928 President Clarissa S. Williams, 1401 Sigsbee Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah. Dear Sister Williams: The sisters of the General Board of the Relief Society desire to express to you and yours at this sad hour, their fond affection and sincere sympathy. We know that words avail little in conveying the sentiments we truly feel for you and yours, as we contemplate the sunset of a career like that of Brother Williams; not terminated, but only transferred to a higher sphere of service. In the passing of Brother Williams, we too have lost a valued friend and wise advisor. All of his associates in the many activities of life, testify to the fact that "he was a friend to man." It has been said that "it is a great gift, a divine gift, to be a friend, and perhaps it is the greatest thing one mortal can be towards another." Brother Williams had a host of friends even at the time of life when men are prone to feel that many of their friends have already passed beyond. We know him as a true gentleman, who lent dignity to every path he trod. He honored the many positions he filled and was a credit to his state and people. Modest and unassuming, yet public spirited, he did his part to build up and maintain the morality and integrity of the community in which he lived. He has borne the burdens of life nobly, for no man achieves the place that Brother Williams occupied without bearing burdens. He has earned his rest, a rest that no one would deny him. The companion of his life, his sons and daughters no doubt feel that he has rounded out a beautiful life and is entitled to the reward of the faithful and the righteous. Be of good cheer. Sorrow not. Could Brother Williams speak, he would say with the poet: "Let more attest, I have lived and seen God's hand through a life time, and all was for the best." God's blessings be upon you always, Your sisters and your friends, GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY, Annie Wells Cannon, Alice L. Reynolds, Lotta Paul Baxter, Committee. Note: This letter will be recorded in the minutes of the General Board of the Relief Society. THE ABDUCTION OF POCAHONTAS From a painting by J. L. G. Ferris