Cyrus E. Dallin and the Indians By Lula Greene Richards At the evening services in the Twentieth ward, Salt Lake City, August 15, 1926, a pleasing lecture was given by Cyrus E. Dallin, the oldest and best known of Utah sculptors. His theme, in the main, was his acquaintance with and admiration for the Aborigines of our country. In Springville, Utah, where Mr. Dallin was born, the Indians. Often came and pitched their wigwams so that they were neighbors to the white settlers, and as a child the boy found much pleasure and obtained much useful information by associating with the boys of the "red skins," as they were sometimes called. Several games were described, by the speaker, which he learned of the Indian children, The boys, as also the Indians generally, were found to be friendly and honest in their sports and in their dealings generally with the white people. One thing, the little white boy envied his dark skinned playfellows for was that they never received corporal punishment for the childish mistakes they made, which could not be said of the children of English parents generally, to whom the admonition "spare the rod," etc., meant a great deal. The free and easy manner of life which characterized the Indians, with their good natured, jovial talk carried a dignity, a charm for young Dallin which he failed to discover among many other people who were hard working and readily irritated. The inspiration which was the forerunner awakening the latent fire of genius in the soul of the boy, was first really sensed at a “Peace Compact" which he witnessed between United States officers and Indian chiefs. These ceremonies took place in a large tent belonging to the white officers. This tent was pitched in a beautiful meadow surrounding one of the cool, pleasant springs. The officers were seated in the tent ready for the peace talk when the Indians came riding down through a mountain pass to join them. How majestic and splendid those Indian braves, all painted up and bedecked with beads and feathers, appeared to the appreciative boy it would be difficult to describe or even to imagine. The head chief among the troop a Indians and two: or three others closely associated with him dismounted and were directed to enter the tent where the white officers were. The other Indians remained on their horses where they sat very orderly, manifesting remarkable patience during the council of the leaders inside the tent. The business was attended to with much dehydration and a considerable length of time was consumed with it. CYRUS E. DALLIN AND THE INDIANS 129 As soon as those authorized to take part in the council were all inside the tent, the front flap which was the door, was dropped so that those outside could not see what was being done inside. But boys were not to be kept from seeing "a circus" because the front entrance was closed. There were other ways. The back of the tent was but a short distance from a patch of green corn. It was a hot summer's day. The men in the tent would have to have air. The boys felt certain the back of the tent would be opened—and it was. And boys were there at the edge of the corn field to see and hear what was being done within the tent. To one boy at least the business of that Peace Compact was exceedingly interesting. The spontaneous, simple sincerity and native dignity of the Indian chief who led in the business to be transacted made so profound an impression upon the boy that it was never to be forgotten. The chief brought out a large, long stemmed pipe, which evidently was to be smoked as "The Pipe of Peace.'"' He courteously offered it to the leader among the white officers to be smoked first. Not to be outdone in politeness by an Indian the white man cordially waved the pipe back to the chief to be first smoked by himself. The chief graciously accepted the consideration thus shown and after lighting the pipe drew a long breath from it and facing the east expelled the smoke slowly. Another wreath was inhaled, the chief turned and the smoke was blown toward the west. The same was repeated toward the north and toward the south. Then the smoke was blown up toward the sky, and lastly down toward the earth. This was done as a token that the chief pledged peace on all sides and in every direction with the white people. When this performance was completed he carefully wiped the end of the stem with a corner of his blanket before passing the pipe again to the white man. The same routine was gone through by every man in the tent. Then they all shook hands heartily, which appeared to complete the proceedings. After a while as the boy grew older the creative fire kindled in his soul became irresistible and had to seek expression. It took Cyrus E. Dallin away from his home, his kindred, all the beloved associations of his early life up to that time, to seek out the line of his life work and the possibilities awaiting him. He started out a poor young man with almost nothing to spend as he went, and with no knowledge of what was considered necessary to carry in traveling. He had no food with him and was soon hungry. The railroad trains were new then in this part of the country. They had no sleepers or dining cars. You had to sleep where you sat if you slept on the train, and take with you what 
 you should eat or money to buy supplies at stopping places. Dallin had started for Chicago, taking nothing with him to eat and very little with which to buy supplies of any kind. He felt lonesome. He did not know anyone in the crowds around him. But he was not lonesome very long. Before the train pulled out a great joy came to him when he saw quite a delegation of Indians board the cars. They had been invited to go to the capitol of the United States and meet in council there with the president and other leaders of the government. Dallin was not long in making acquaintance with these dark travelers. They were Crow Indians, instead of Utes, with whom the boy had been so much associated formerly. But although their language was diifferent to the Utes, the Indians had a sign language which seemed to be similar in the different tribes and familiar to all. The boy had a fairly good understanding of their sign language and soon picked up a few words so he could converse easily with the Crows, which was interesting and agreeable on both sides. It was not long either before the white boy was invited to join in feasting upon jerked meat and other edibles with which the Indians, being more wise than the boy had sensibly supplied themselves. For four days the journeying with those people, in whom the boy found much that was good to study, was a pleasure trip for which he was very thankful. When the train passed through a dark tunnel there were no lights in the cars to be switched on, but all was total blackness. The Indians were greatly alarmed and grunted significantly. When they came out again into daylight every one of the Indians except two were standing erect and showed by their looks that they were badly frightened. The two exceptions had crawled under their seats as far as they could, where they lay huddled in great fear. They wanted Dallin to tell them what it meant. He had no language in which to explain it to them, except the sign language, in which they conversed. So, putting the tips of his fingers together and holding them up in a way to indicate the formation of a mountain, he pointed to the mountain outside the car window to show them what he meant. Then with his left hand, putting the tips of his thumb and fingers together he indicated the hole or tunnel which had been bored through a portion of the mountain, and with the index finger of his right hand described the train of cars rushing through the tunnel and coming out on the other side. The Indians understood and were satisfied. When they were rushed through another tunnel they were perfectly silent, there were no gruntings and no signs of fright when they saw daylight again. As they were reaching the point where the Indians were to take train for Washington and the-white boy for Chicago, the boy felt rather lonesome again. But he cheerfully shook hands CYRUS E. DALLIN AND THE INDIANS 131 with the Indians and made them know that he appreciated their kind treatment and sociability towards him and that he would not forget them. After having shaken hands with each one except the head chief who was a large and powerful man, Dallin wondered if he dared to approach him. He had not spoken with that great man and did not know whether the chief had seen him or known that he was there with some of the less important of his company. But the big chief took notice, now seeming to sense the embarrassment the white boy felt, and manifested his friendly sentiments towards him by shaking his hand warmly and looking as though he felt good to acknowledge his presence and wished him well. Dallin thought a white man could not have shown a boy more consideration under such circumstances. The boy was made to feel less alone in the big world by the evidence of such genial fellowship from one of the people he already thought so well of. Many years later on one of his trips home, Dallin, having business in Washington, D. C., found there another delegation of Indians just brought from the west. Pleased with the discovery the sculptor inquired of the Indians if any of them had been there before. To his delight he found one who had been in that other company and remembered the white boy with great satisfaction. The lecturer next took his audience to Paris, France, at the time he was first there. Good fortune still favored him in bringing near to where he was a company of his favorite people, the American Indians. They were engaged to travel and perform through England, France, etc., by the famous American "cowboy, Buffalo Bill," (William Cody) with his troop of cow boys. Dallin hastened to the place where the Indians were to perform, delighted and expectant. Others also hurried there. The introduction of American Indians and cowboys was a great novelty in Paris. One celebrity who took the young man's attention was the world renowned animal painter, Rosa Bonheur. She was dressed in a suit more like a man's than a woman's. Her head was covered with a small hat suited rather to a boy or man than a woman. Her dress and appearance throughout made it difficult to judge whether it was a man or a woman you saw. She, of course, was there to draw pictures of the horses to be ridden by the Indians and cowboys. Rosa hired a young man to hold a horse while she drew a picture of it. When she had finished her drawing she paid the man two francs for his help. Another fellow asked him, "How much did she pay you?" The one who had the honor of having been an assistant to the great artist replied, "Why do you say 'What did she pay your' That isa man!" The first questioner said he would bet as much as the money paid that the artist was 
 a woman. The honored one took the bet and of course lost the money he had earned. Rosa wanted to speak to the Indian chief and he was invited down from the stand where the Indians were seated to talk with the noted artist. Their talk had to be interpreted for them by some of the men who understood the different languages and could interpret. But they liked each other and expressed kindly feelings. Rosa presented the chief with a finger ring and said it was offered as a token of friendship. The Indian took the ring and placed it on his finger and said he accepted it as a token of friendliness. He held his hand up and looking at the ring declared, "Before that ring shall leave my finger the finger shall leave my hand." The artist was highly pleased with the gallantry displayed by the chief and had him told that she greatly appreciated the noble sentiment he had expressed, and that a 'Frenchman could not have said it better." The Indian name of the chief being interpretted meant "Soaring Eagle," or something of the kind, and Rosa had him told that in one respect there was a similarity in his name and hers, both were words with meanings—Bonheur meant "good feelings" or "happiness." Dallin's first finished piece of sculptor was an Indian on a horse—carrying out, in a measure at least, that first great inspiration revealing the line which was to determine his life work. His famous memorial statue of the noble Indian, Massasoit, at Plymouth, Massachusetts, is another demonstration of his faithfulness to early impressions in his chosen work. Loyal to his native state, a model of each of these productions stands in the State Capitol of Utah. Still clinging to his deep set fascination for the Indians, Dallin's imposing statue of the great pioneer leader, Brigham Young, standing in the center of the road at the crossing of South Temple and Main Street in Salt Lake City, Utah, has on the east side of its pedestal an Indian hunter in the act of shooting with bow and arrow. And in keeping with this idea the sculptor at the close of his lecture stressed the fact that President Brigham Young was an earnest friend of the Indians and always admonished his people to treat them with fairness and friendliess. A gigantic statue of "The Peace Indian" erected in some appropriate place in Utah and done by Cyrus E. Dallin, according to the ideal which was born in his soul as a boy, would be a splendid achievement which the native state of the sculptor would do well to foster. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - Clarissa A SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - -:: - Alice Louise Rreynolds Assistant Manager - - - - - -: Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine  
VoL. XV MARCH, 1928 No. 3