EDITORIAL The Passing of Edward H. Anderson The dean of the editors of Church magazines has gone to his reward. For thirty years he has attended to the multiplicity of details that must be taken care of if a magazine is to reach its readers in good shape and on time. Nothing comes by chance, and this is true in the severest sense when applied to magazine work, Every cut, every word, that enriches and adorns the pages must be attended to with the utmost scrupulosity. That Edward H. Anderson has done his work painstakingly and well the pages of the Era bear eloquent witness. At the service held Sunday, February 5th, in the Richards Ward Chapel, the speakers dwelt on the fact that Edward H. Anderson was a man of sound judgment, trustworthy in every sense of the word and a Latter-day Saint to the very core. All of these attributes have been reflected in the pages of the Improvement Era these many years. It has been our good fortune to mingle rather closely with Editor Anderson and to have recourse to his good advice, backed as, it was, by years of experience. Our feeling is the general feeling of those who have been close to him, that respect for him and admiration of him grew with the years. His was a gentle and refined spirit. 
 In this day when a veritable host of critics can be found who declare that spirituality has taken wing and that we are the victims of a mechanistic civilization, it is refreshing and reassuring to know men like Edward H. Anderson. It is a source of consolation to realize that his deep-seated spirituality has made itself felt on every editorial page and in the exercise of his function as critic over a period covering nearly half his earthly life. At the service Junius F. Wells, with whom Elder Anderson had connections early in his literary career, read a poem written by Editor Anderson entitled "My Star." On the 26th day of January it was our pleasure, at the Creative Artists dinner held in connection with the Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University, to listen to Editor Anderson respond to a toast. During his brief address he read this poem with much the same zest, we fancy, as in the days when he was a younger man and the poem was new. Those of us who heard the reading only seven days before his passing were peculiarly touched when we heard it read again by Elder Wells. His life was a hallowed life and the memory of it will always inspire those who knew him with fidelity, courage and faith. He was the servant of us all and above all else he was the servant of the Master, the greatest of all servants. Now's the Time to Swat We have had placed on our desk an editorial on the fly, published in the Minneapolis Journal. It is so timely that we are including it in our editorial columns. Now is the best time of the whole year to swat flies, as Dr. W. A. Evans remarked sometime since in his column on this page. Why swat flies in the winter, when they are so scarce? Because their very scarcity, plus the fact that those which dodge the swatter cannot seek refuge outdoors, makes a thorough job possible. In our dealings with the fly pest, most of us are like the Arkansas mountaineer who never patched his leaky roof, because the job could not be done in the rain, and did not need doing in fair weather. We go energetically about the business of swatting flies only when they are so plentiful as to arouse our ire, which is in the summer, when they are likewise so plentiful that there is little chance to effect even a visible reduction in their numbers. But now that it is winter and flies are so few that we could virtually exterminate the breed in Minneapolis, we do not swat as we should, for they are not noticeably bothering us. Save for those that travel into town on vehicles or railway trains, every one of the millions of flies that make nuisances of EDITORIAL 135 themselves in Minneapolis in summer, is a descendant of some fly that survived the preceding winter inside of some building right here in town. The average fly seldom travels more than a hundred yards from its birthplace under its own power. So the winter's flies in any locality are the ancestors of the subsequent summer's flies in that same region. One swat in December saves a thousand swats in August. The parent, who, in midsummer, pays his little boy a nickel a dozen bounty on swatted flies could save money by rasing the price to ten cents a head between November and March. If every househlder, and every user of business premises, were to hunt down vigilantly the few flies that now warm themselves under his roof, Minneapolis would come mighty close to being a flyless town next summer.