Vol. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1881.	No. 14.


HOLIDAY HINTS.

How sweet that after lovely Spring
The Summer comes on golden wing,
With all its store of treasures;
An after Autumn, grave and grand,
Led by brave Winter's master hand,
Comes Christmas with its pleasures;

Dear Christmas is the children's time,
For Santa Claus, and blissful chime
Of laughter and of sporting;
And as we elder, larger grow,
A precious, splendid time, you know,
For love and youthful courting.

But little folks, and young folks too,
While Christmas kindly smiles for you
And me, let us remember
There are some hearthstones cold and bare,
Some tables with but scanty fare,
And it is bleak December.

And in some homes where wealth is found,
Strange doubts and suffering may abound,
And eyes no gladness borrow;
For death or sickness may be there,
And faces pale with anxious care,
And hearts o'erwrought with sorrow.

So let us humbly wish and pray
God's loving hand to chase away
Those pangs, so dark and dreary:
That all may smile, and none may weep,
But each a merry Christmas keep,
And New Year bright and cheery.

And while we pray, let's keep in view
We've also something else to do,
Who in this day are living;
Nor let our minds be fondly set
On presents we may hope to get,
But what we would be giving.

Whatever good our Father sends,
Let us still recollect, my friends,
My sisters and my brothers,
That nothing can so truly bless,
Or bring such perfect happiness,
As doing good to others.

As Jesus died that we might live,
So let us heed and reverence give
To this unfading sample;
And while His birth we celebrate,
Strive in our lives to imitate
His pure and high example.
								LULA.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS.

	Christmas is coming! Christmas is coming!
is the cry sounding all around. All the shop
windows are filled with such pretty and won-
derful little things, making the children stare,
and shriek with delight. And many times we
hear some little voice say, "I wonder what
Santa Claus will bring to me." At home the
hands are all so busy, and every one is so very
sly, so as to keep the pretty gift a secret until
the merry day.
	Yes, the gay, joyous holiday is near, the
time of great rejoicings and fun-making; the
time when all hearts are filled with love and
kindness; the time when we truly feel to act
by the Golden Rule—do unto others as we
would be done by. The happy time brings
forth many sweet recollections in the hearts of
all. Children recall with the utmost joy the
bright Christmas tree, all glowing with its little
wax candles and glistening ornaments. With
what delight the toys are received, and what a
noisy day it is, with its trumpets and drums
and bells, and all its bright and pretty things.

[Column 2]
How wide the childish eyes open, and with
what gladness the little voices ring as the
bright, shining spectacle of the Christmas tree
is shown to them.
	Yes, such are the Christmas times now-a-days;
but I recall with sweet pleasure the time when
beautiful things were not quite so plentiful, but
the Christmas was just as gay. We had no
great evergreen trees then, all filled with shin-
ing lights and rare and costly toys, but we had
a line of little stockings all hanging round the
chimney corner, and each little heart had per-
fect faith that Santa Claus would bring him or
her something nice- How we hated to go to
bed Christmas eve, thinking that if we might
sit up the great Christmas king would come
and we could see him; but he never comes
where little ones are naughty, so we had to
mind our dear mother, and saying a sweet
goodnight, we would bend in prayer, and then
hush softly to sleep.
	All was still and quiet, and I fancy now I
see the dear, kind heart moving noiselessly
around, filling the tiny stockings with the little
things that made our hearts so glad. Then in
the cold, frosty mornings—how early we used
to wake in those days—each little one would
pop out of bed, and claim her stocking so full
of goodies now, so empty when she saw it last;
with what unspeakable delight we used to
draw out, one by one, the little toy, the nuts,
the candy, all sweeter and prettier than ever
because it was Christmas. Yes, this was a day
when we laid aside all our troubles and harsh
feelings, when we all tried to make each other
truly happy.
	Let us pause in the midst of our fun and re-
joicings, and spend a few moments in sweet
thanksgiving for this blessed day. We will
think of Him who gave us light, who brought
the pure knowledge of Christianity, and of the
One who was crucified to redeem the world.
What a day should it be—the day when our
Savior was born! Rejoice all the world, and
sing praises for this blessed day, the anniver-
sary of the birth of our dear Savior. Yes,
the memories of this day are sweet; sweeter,
perhaps, by being mellowed with time. The
rejoicings of this day are happy, and happy
may they always be.
	A merry, bright Christmas to all my friends,
and may the future be as beautiful to you all
as the dear past is to me.
[handwritten] Annie Q. Cannon	ANNIE.


[COLUMN 1]

	HOW TO ATTAIN SUCCESS.
			     -----
	Mankind in general, and in all ages, have
had a desire to become noted; to do something
which shall call forth, or be worthy of admira-
tion, or in some degree benefit the human race.
To accomplish this object in the most expedient
way is the chief aim of life. Our aims and
desires differ as our dispositions, and the meth-
ods employed in accomplishing the desired ob-
ject perhaps vary as much as they.
	It is necessary that every one select an occu-
pation that is suitable to him. He should then
strive to adapt himself to this profession, so
that it shall in no way be odious, and as slightly
irksome as possible.
	It is no uncommon thing for people to say
that to become great, the individual must pos-
sess abilities superior to the average class of
mankind.  This is decidedly a mistake; genius
is desirous, but not necessary to success. In
reviewing the lives of eminent men and women,

[COLUMN 2]

we find that genius often succumbs, where en-
ergy and endurance prevail. Neither do we
wish to ignore wealth, position, or natural tal-
ents. The individual who possesses these, ac-
companied with will and determination, will be
sure of success, and happy is he who is thus
favored.
	There is, however, no need for speculation
on the subject. No doubts need  be entertained
respecting our final success, if we adopt and
carry out the plans of those who have been
successful. Relying upon history, we find that
the most noted men, those who have stood upon
a pinnacle of greatness, have attained this de-
gree of eminence by their indomitable will and
perseverance. The genius may become famous
sooner than the man of ordinary abilities; but
to him who overcomes the greatest obstacles,
the greatest credit is due.
	But how often we attribute to natural abil-
ity that which is the result of energy and per-
severance. The admirer of a lovely picture
might be heard to exclaim: "That artist has a
refined soul, rare genius, lofty imagination,"
etc. He forgets that the parts in the picture
which demand his praise are the result of a
careful and life-long stndy. Or, perhaps we
visit the theatre to witness the skill of some re-
nowned musician; and while we watch with
wonder the dexterity of his movements, and are
enraptured by the soul inspiring strains, we
often become oblivious to the fact that years
of patient toil and persevering practice were
necessary to attain such a degree of excellence.
The scientific lecturer, who, by his diligent re-
searches after knowledge, has made himself
acquainted with the laws and objects of na-
ture, may elicit from his audience expressions
like these: "What keen perception!" "What
profound thought!" "A mind capable of
penetrating the deepest recesses and bringing
to light the hidden mysteries." No doubt his
hearers become envious of his wealth of knowl-
edge, and perhaps some are ungenerous enough
to say that nature has been partial in the be-
stowal of her gifts.
	Neither should we be daunted by failure.
"Failures," it has been said, "are the stepping
stones to success." They excite to action and
show the necessity of additional perseverance.
	Franklin, Lincoln, Disraeli and others are
excellent examples of perseverance. They
show to us what can be accomplished by men
with a will and a determination to succeed.
Nor need we go beyond our own community
for self-made men. Our late, esteemed friend,
Orson Pratt, was a good illustration of this
class of men. It was due to his untiring ener-
gy and continual delving after knowledge that
he rose from obscurity to occupy the front
ranks, so that as an astronomer and mathema-
tician he was seldom surpassed, or even equaled.
	"What man has done, man can do," has been
truthfully said. Remember that we have the
power to become good and great, if we so order
our lives; or we may become the reverse by
encouraging idleness and succumbing to diffi-
culties.						   CAMEO.
	December 6, 1881.


MRS. Garfield is now settled with her three
younger children in their new home on Euclid
avenue, Cleveland. They will remain there
until April, and will then return to Mentor.
The elder Mrs. Garfield will spend the winter
with the widow of her son.


106	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	As Rogers (author of "Pleasures of Mem-
ory") says, "He who feels the infirmities of age,
dwells most on whatever reminds him of the
vigor and vivacity of his youth." We know
this to be true; and there is a tender and pleas-
ant melancholy which arises in the mind of
every one in the decline of life. He continutes:
"Nor are we pleased only with a review of the
brighter passages of life. Events, the most
distressing in their immediate consequences, are
often cherished in remembrance with a degree
of enthusiasm. This," he says, "is the lan-
guage of the heart, and will remind the reader
of that good-humored remark in one of Pope's
letters, 'I should hardly care to have an old
post pulled up, that I remembered ever since I
was a child.' "
	These words come home to the heart, and
remind us of similar attachment to the place
of our birth and objects and associations famil-
iar to us in early youth.
	Though pleasing the task, I often find it a
very difficult one to gather up the many broken
threads of the almost forgotten past, and weave
them into a shape for the persual of others,
and it is a pleasant relief, like a cooling draught
to the thirsty traveler, to find here and there a
scrap of our history interwoven with that of
others, bringing before us objects and scenes
which were once familiar, but had become dim
and nearly effaced from our memory by the
hand of time, which has been to me unsparing
in its ravages. How forcibly I am here re-
minded of my father's request, in a letter writ-
ten me in 1844, while upon his last mission to
the Eastern States, urging me to commence
then to write my life as far back as I could re-
member, and to tell my brother William to do
the same; "And then," said he, "you can put
all the letters I write you in their proper places,
and when I write my history yours shall go in
with it, to be handed down to our children for
them to read." I neglected to do so, and can
only look back with regret at not heeding his
wishes.
	In the Spring of 1842 father, with my
brother William's assistance, plowed and
planted us a garden. This he did every season,
but never had the privilege of reaping the
fruits of his labor until after he came to this
valley.
	It was a common thing for the Elders, who
left all to go forth to other lands to preach the
Gospel without purse or scrip, to return empty
handed and go to work chopping wood, build-
ing houses, planting, or any kind of labor to
support and provide food and raiment for them-
selves and families. They never thought of
complaining, but rejoiced in the knowledge
that they had been faithful in declaring the
truth to the honest in heart, and thought no
sacrifice too great in such a cause; and this
they have continued to do until the present
time. But where in all Christendom can there
be found any other class of men who would
willingly go forth, with no other source to look
to for assistance, but to Him Who commanded
that His Apostles should go forth into all the
world and preach the Gospel to every creature,
saying, "He that believeth and is baptized
shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall
be damned; and these signs shall follow them
that believe: in my name shall they cast out
devils; they shall speak in new tongues; they
shall take up serpents, and if they drink any
deadly thing it shall not hurt them; they shall
lay hands on the sick and they shall recover."
Peter said, "Is any sick among you? let him
call for the Elders of the Church, and let them
pray over him, anointing him with oil in the
name of the Lord," etc.
	These are among the doctrines which have

[Column 2]
been taught and practised by the Latter-day
Saints, and for which they were persecuted,
murdered, robbed and driven from State to
State and finally out of the Union, and the
majority of its inhabitants rejoiced at our ca-
lamities.
	On the 10th of September my father left us
to go on a mission through the southern part
of Illinois, in company with Prest. Brigham
Young, Elders George A. Smith and Amasa
Lyman. The following is from my father's
journal.
	"We proceeded to Quincy, and preached at
that place several times. The indifference of
the people and the little regard they appeared
to have for the Gospel, led me to reflect con-
siderably upon the hardness of their hearts and
situation. I went to bed and dreamed the fol-
lowing dream:
	"I thought I went out on a fishing excursion,
and whilst traveling up and down the stream
to find a good fishing place, I was astonished
to see so very few fish in the stream, and they
were small and very shy. After traveling a
while, I discovered some large fish lying across
the stream, dead, and which smelled exceedingly
bad. I then saw the reason why so few fish
went up stream, and why they were so small
and shy; it was in consequence of those dead
ones lying across the stream.
	"This is the dream; and in the morning the
following interpretation was strongly impressed
upon my mind. These dead fish represent the
dead members scattered abroad, hither and
thither, who are considered as members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
but are in fact but dead branches; they are
not complying with the revelations of God,
which command them to gather together to the
body. And as the branch of the vine cannot
gather sap and nourishment from the body
when separated from it, so the members of the
Church abroad, when commanded to gather to
the body, cannot receive life and intelligence
away from it, nor grow in the things of the
Kingdom of God, as is their privilege; and
such characters stand in the way of the Gos-
pel, and prevent many from obeying the Gos-
pel, through their neglect. I further thought
that it was not impossible that the bad smell
of the dead fish represented those people who
are to be met with, some with a chew of to-
bacco in their mouths, and some a pipe, and
others whose breath smells sufficiently strong
of whiskey to sicken a sober man when he
comes near them.
	"Much of our time was spent in endeavor-
ing to remove these obstacles, by persuading
the members to comply with the command-
ments given on the subject, that the channel
might be cleared and a way opened for more
live fish to pass up the stream; and we hoped
that we should yet see the stream full of live
fish, and the fishing places become exceedingly
good and live fish plentiful."
	The following interesting incident happened
in the family of Elder Sidney Rigdon, and I
heard him relate it upon the stand in the little
grove by the Temple. It was printed in the
Nauvoo Times and Seasons, where I read it a
short time since. It created quite a sensation
at the time among both old and young. Elder
Rigdon and family had been greatly afflicted,
and his body had become considerably ema-
ciated. For some time previous to this he had
been slackening in his duty. and his faith ac-
cordingly had weakened. His presence in the
congregation, sitting once more in his place by
the Prophet and his brethren, caused great re-
joicing among the Saints.
	He came, he said, not to renounce his faith
in Mormonism, as had been stated by enemies
and licentious presses, but to bear his testimony
of its truth, and add another to the many mi-
raculous evidences of the power of God, and
unfold unto the audience a scene of deep in-

[Column 3]
terest which had occured in his own family.
He had witnessed many instances of the power
of God in this Church, but never before had
seen the dead raised; yet this was a thing that
had actually taken place in his own family.
His youngest daughter, Eliza, who had been
very sick for a time, died. The doctor told
them that she was dead. After she had lain
in this state for a certain length of time, she
rose up in the bed. and in a very powerful and
supernatural tone spoke to the family to the
following effect: said she was going to leave
them, and had only come back to deliver her
message, and then depart again. The Lord
had said to her the very words she was about
to relate. She was so particular in relating it
that she would not allow them to leave out or
add one word. Before dying she had expressed
a great desire to live; but after her retnrn to
earth she expressed as strong a desire to go
back. She called her family around her and
bade them farewell. To her eldest sister she
said: "Nancy, it is in your heart to deny this
work; and if you do, the Lord says it will be
the damnation of your soul." To her sister
Sarah she said, "Sarah, we have but once to
die, and I would rather die now than wait for
another time." She told her sisters that the
Lord had great blessings in store for them if
they continued in the faith; and after deliver-
ing her message she swooned, but recovered
again. During this time she was cold, and the
only appearance of life was the power of speech.
She continued in this state till the following
evening—for the space of thirty-six hours—
when she called her father and told him that
the Lord had said to her, if he would cease
weeping for his sick daughter, and dry up his
tears, that he should have all the desires of his
heart; and that if he would go to bed and rest,
he should be comforted over his sick daughter,
for in the morning she should be getting better
and should get well. That the Lord had said
unto her, because that her father had dedicated
her to God and prayed to Him for her, that He
would give her back again. This ceremony
of dedicating and praying took place when she
was struggling in death, and continued to the
very moment of her departure; and she said
the Lord told her that it was because of this
that she must go back again, though she de-
sired to stay.
	She said concerning G. W. Robinson, her
brother-in-law, as he had denied the faith the
Lord had taken away one of his eye teeth; and
unless he repented He would take away another.
And concerning Dr. Bennett, that he was a
wicked man, and that the Lord would tread
him under His feet.
	This is but a small portion of what she re-
lated. It aroused Elder Rigdon from his mor-
bid state for a little season, but he soon sank
again into the same lethargy, from which he
never awoke until he heard of the martyrdom
of the Prophet, when he hurried back to Nau-
voo to claim the leadership of the Church.
Previous to this, having become weary in well-
doing, and having suffered enough, as he
thoughc, he had left his post and moved with
his family to Pittsburg.
			To be continued.


MRS. Matilda Joslyn Gage announces that
the National Citizen and Ballot Box, edited by
herself, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Su-
san B. Anthony, is suspended with the October
issue for the present. The health of Mrs.
Gage, she says, is not adequate to the exhaust-
ing labor of editing the National Citizen, and
also to doing her part on the Woman Suffrage
history to which she must now devote herself.
The Alpha, edited by Mrs. Winslow at Wash-
ington, will be supplied to the subscribers of
the National Citizen, until their time expires.
Mrs. Gage will also be heard through that
paper.


-107™.<="" div="">W O M A N ' S   E X P O N E N T .							107

	
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 107div="">			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			107


TRUE WIVES AND TRUE MOTHERS.

AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO MRS. KATE BROCKBANK.

Down, down in the valley
	Love leads them to stay;
True wives and true mothers,
	Their hearts must obey.
Oft, their lot 'tis to labor,
	Unpraised, unperceived;
'Tis ne'er comprehended,
	The good they achieve.
Ere the blessing is vanished,
	We prize not the boon;
When mother is missing,
	What home is in tune?

What self-abnegation
	Two little words cover;
How easy to speak them—
	True wife and true mother.
How hard is the title
	To earn and maintain;
Only won, only purchased
	By patience and pain.

'Tis easy to toil
	When the world is agaze,
When the mouths of the many
	Are speaking our praise,
When we know that the future
	Our record will write,
That as recognized heroes
	Our names will be bright;

But to bear up the burthens
	Of every day life,
To shoulder the duties
	Of mother and wife—
The numberless duties,
	That nobody sees;
What praise is awarded
	Such labors as these?

Take heart, weary mothers,
	Strive on, as you've striven,
Your task is the noblest
	To womanhood given.
Your mission is weighty,
	It also is grand,
For bodies and souls
	'Tis your charge to expand;
Yea, bodies and souls
	Must the mother prepare
For the battle of life,
	For its labor and care.

The duties of mothers
	Are often portrayed—
And suggestions are good
	When the weary they aid—
But tho' precepts were compounds
	Of wisdom and grace,
It takes love and labor
	To rear up a race;
It takes strength and courage,
	And patience uncommon;
It takes all the virtues;
	In short, it takes WOMAN.

Why forever remind them
	Of duty and care;
Who carry life's burdens,
	E'en all they can bear?
Would that mine were the pleasure
	To cheer you indeed,
For 'tis help and more leisure
	That mother's most need.

Take heart, faithful mothers,
	Be comforted even;
Your rest is to come—
	Your reward is in heaven.
Your works shall extend
	Past the portals of Time,
Resulting in blessings,
	Eternal, sublime.

No marble may mark
	Where your bodies shall rest,
Proclaiming your virtues
	Or talents the best;
No public may eulogize
	Souls so obscure;
But your households will bless you,
	And miss you, I'm sure.

S. L. City.	EMILY HILL WOMANSEE.


A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

ZINA D. H. Young.
		CONTINUED.
	In the journey of the Saints from Nauvoo,
it is well known to those acquainted with the
facts, there were several settlements made by
the way, resting places for the poor, weary ex-
iles: over one of these, called Mt. Pisgah,
Father Huntington was appointed to preside,
and his daughter, Zina D., with her two little
boys, remained with her father temporarily.
None but those who have experienced something
of the hardships of pioneer life, can comprehend
the many trials and difficulties bravely encoun-
tered by the women of the Latter-day Saints
during this exodus and their journeying to the
valley.
	Sister Zina very pathetically describes some
of the incidents which transpired at Mt. Pis-
gah. Sickness visited the camp; the Saints
were weary and worn with travel and over-
exertion, and fell an easy prey to the destroyer,
when once attacked with illness which pros-
trated them. There were no delicacies to be
procured for those in ill health; though loving
hands might minister, and all that tender care
could do might be done, but in many instances
it could not save, and one after another suc-
cumbed to disease and death. Sister Zina
says: "Sickness was so prevalent, and deaths so
frequent, that help enough could not be ob-
tained to make coffins, and many of the dead
were wrapped in their grave clothes and buried
with split logs at the bottom of the grave and
brush at the sides, that being all that could be
done for them by their mourning friends. Too
soon it became my turn to mourn. My father
was taken sick, and in eighteen days he died.
Like my dear mother, who died in the expul-
sion from Missouri, he died in the exodus from
Nauvoo. Sad was my heart. I alone of all
his children was there to mourn. It was a sol-
emn day at Mt. Pisgah when my father was
buried. The poor and needy had lost a friend,
the kingdom of God a faithful servant. There
upon the hillside was his resting place. The
graveyard was so near that I could hear the
wolves howling as they visited the spot; those
hungry monsters, who fain would have unsep-
ulchred those sacred bones! Those days of
trial and grief were succeeded by my journey
to Winter Quarters, where, in due time, I ar-
rived with my two little boys, and was warmly
welcomed by President Young into his family.”
	In Winter Quarters Sister Zina was engaged
much of the time among the sick, for, possess-
ing as she does  an eminent degree that deli-
cacy of sympathy which brings to the human
heart sweet consolation when under the most
painful afflictions, she found an ample field to
labor in, and by ministering to the spiritual
and temporal needs of the Saints, in those days
of severe trial and adversity, she engrafted
herself into the affections of the people with
whom she was associated, and the memory of
her good works will live in their hearts for
ever.
 The absence of the pioneers on their journey
to the Rocky Mountains was a time of great
anxiety to those who remained behind, and es-
pecially to those whose fathers, husbands and
brothers were members of that memorable
company. The sisters held regular meetings,
to pray and exercise faith for the pioneers. At
these meetings Sister Zina was a regular at-
tendant, and she is largely endowed with spir-
ituality, which qualifies her admirably as an
active worker in such a capacity. She has,
perhaps; as perfect a gift of interpretation of
tongues as any person in the Church, for al-
though her opportunities for education in lan-
guage have been limited, and she is not a poet
or rhymer, yet she gives the interpretation of
hymns, psalms and sacred songs in the most
musical and happy manner, without thought or
hesitation. There is something divinely beau-
tiful in thus rendering, by the gift of inspira-
tion, words uttered in an unknown tongue.
These seasons of refreshing among the sisters
helped them to endure the weary day and al-
most sleepless nights, while those they so ten-
derly loved were plodding the sandy plains,
wending their way through an unknown coun-
try to the then "promised land." After the
pioneers returned with the good news of their
wonderful success in finding a peaceful home
for the people of God, the homeless exiles, such
preparations as could be made were arranged;
every one was busy, and there was a little time
to visit or associate together, except in families.
	Sister Zina, with President Young's family,
left Winter Quarters in May, 1848, and shared
in the grand march to the mountains the privi-
lege of walking, driving team, cooking out of
doors, washing when camped near a river, and
in all the various hardships of camp life.
Happy and light-hearted, always ready to bless
and comfort others with kind words and cheery
smiles. President  Young and his family reached
the valley in September; his family remained in
wagons and tents until he could build shelters
from the inclements weather fast approaching.
On the hillside, just above and a little behind
where the BEE-HIVE house stands now, a row
of cottages was built of logs, comfortable and
shutting out the cold, though the dirt roofs
were scarcely protection from rain. In one of
these Sister Zina spent the first few years in
the valley; her time was almost entirely occu-
pied with household duties, for in those day
everything must be done at home, candles,
soap, starch, molasses and many other articles
were manufactured by the sisters; there was
little machinery of any kind. And then there
was carding, spining, dying, knitting, weav-
ing, besides the making and mending of cloth-
ing, in addition to ordinary household duties.
Sister Zina rather excelled in most of these
domestic pursuits, and her hands were always
busy. She has ever been an early rise, which
is a great advantage in all industrial occupa-
tions; still she found time to help others when
any were sick, or in need of a friend. In her
humble log cabin she enjoyed much domestic
happiness, for the touch of a woman's hand re-
fines and adorns the humble walls of the sim-
plest cottage of the poor where love dwells, as
well as the prouder, loftier mansions of the
rich. Peace and contentment reigned in these
quiet, unpretending homes of the Saints.
Here, too, an event occurred which gave
new zest to her home enjoyments; beneath this
rustic roof, on the 3rd of April, 1851, a beau-
tiful daughter was born to Sister Zina and
Brigham Young. The mother never considered
for a moment the hardship of childbirth under
these circumstances, for it bore no comparison
with other trying ordeals through which she
and her sisters had been called to pass. They
called the babe Zina, for its mother, and no
princess of royal blood was ever more fondly
beloved, or more tenderly cared for, than this
little one, for Sister Zina has ever been a de-
voted mother.
 Subsequently, the Lion House was erected,
the log row, as it was called, was no longer oc-
cupied for dwellings, and in that house was
Sister Zina’s home. Here her children grew
to manhood and womanhood, under the guid-
ing care and protection of a wise and loving
father and mother. Sister Zina has also, in
addition to her own family, had charge of sev-
erael other children. After the death of Mrs.
Clarissa Chase Young, to Sister Zina was com-
mitted the care of her three children, a son,
Willard, and two daughters, Maria and Phebe;
she took them to her heart and cherished them
as her own; the children returned to her affection
and grew up under her care and guidance.
To be continued.


108	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	DECEMBER 15, 1881.


[Column 1]
PEACE AND GOOD WILL.

	"Peace and good will towards all men." At
this season of the year, when Christmas is just
at hand, one is forcibly reminded of the message
the angel brought at the birth of the Savior,
whose advent is commemorated on this auspi-
cious day. How happy all might be if these
precious words were only practically echoed in
the daily lives of those who profess Christianity.
All the heartaches, scenes of sorrow and suffer-
ing would be more or less modified and soothed,
were mankind to follow the suggestion made by
the angel—"peace and good will towards all
men." Let the reader reflect—how is it with
those who aim to be the followers of the meek
and lowly One born in Bethlehem of Judea?
	The Chief Executive of the nation has just
issued his salutatory message. He touched upon
all the great national questions fairly perhaps,
but upon Utah and the Mormons he speaks em-
phatically, as determined to carry out measures
calculated to uproot the system Mormons have
established. He is mistaken in his views of the
matter, like many of his predecessors in office—
however, we shall see whether Congress will aid
the people in promoting peace and good govern-
ment in the Territory, or introduce strife and
anarchy. Peace is the motto of the true
Gospel banner introduced by the birth of Jesus.
There has been misery and wretchedness enough,
the result of wars and contentions; and by all
possible means, the most powerful potentate of a
free nation should seek to bind the people to-
gether under a banner of peace, instead of sow-
ing the seeds of injustice and oppression.
	Those who peril their lives, their all, to settle
new lands and increase the wealth and power of
any nation are usually fostered by that govern-
ment in whose interest these risks are incurred;
but for Utah, the desert reclaimed from sterility
by the Mormon exiles, there is no encourage-
ment, or symyathy with the people, who have
proven their loyalty to the Constitution again
and again. But now, of all times, when attempts
are being made to take from this people every
right and privilege dear to American hearts, how
magnanimous to have the sublime courage to
say, "Father, forgive them, for they know not
what they do."
	Looking from a natural standpoint, one would
think, from the bills being introduced into Con-
gress and the various anti-polygamy gold and
crimson petitions offered for the enforcement of
severe measures towards this people, that the
Mormons ought to fear and tremble; yet we see
no manifestations of this kind whatever. The
people trust in that God whom they are trying
to serve, and they have steadfast faith in His
promises. It seems strange that all the wicked
misrepresentations made by the opponents of
the Mormon faith should be so readily believed
by men who pride themselves upon statesman-
ship. There is always two sides to every ques-
tion, and both should be heard; but in too many

[Column 2]
instances judgment is formed upon the first hear-
ing, and all other testimony is rejected. But
stringent measures such as are being talked of,
the breaking up of family relations which now
exist, etc., will not only result in increased per-
plexity and compound multiplication and com-
plication of the difficult problem, which is too
abstruse for the solution of it by those who
only deal with it from an outward view.
	But at Christmas time this an unpleasant
topic, especially for the young. All disagreeable
feeling should be laid aside, and whatever the
future may have in store, the present teems with
plenty, and in the midst of such prosperity as the
Saints have been blest with the past season, peace
and happiness should be in every heart, at least
during the Christmas holidays. Let that
Christian charity which is long-suffering,
merciful and tender extend towards all mankind.
It should be a time of reconciliation and forgive-
ness; if any have unkindness in their hearts let
them banish it, and cherish only those feelings
which elevate and purify and ennoble the human
soul. This has been a season of unusual pros-
perity, although there has been some sickness;
yet taking it all in all there has been much to
rejoice over and to be abundantly grateful for,
and surrounded as this people are with blessings,
they should not forget to praise Him from whom
all blessings flow, and to remember the poor,
that blessings may be multiplied in future.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	ON Wednesday, Nov. 30, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Louie Felt visited North Jordan and met
with the Primary Association. The programme
was rendered in a very creditable manner.
	“OUR Boarding House” at the Theatre re-
cently by the Home Dramatic Club was a com-
plete success in all respects. The piece is a very
humorous one, and the acting was well done, or
perhaps some parts were over.done; yet it was
extremely amusing. Those who are fond of
high comedy should by all means see “Our
Boarding House” performed. 
	WE had the pleasure of attending the Sisters,
Conference of Tooele Stake, Dec. 10, 11 and 12
in company with Prest. Eliza R. S. Smith.
Prest. H. J. Grant, Apostle F. M. Lyman and
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant were present, and many
excellent speeches were made and much good
instruction given by the brethren and sisters.
An account of the Conference in detail will be
published in our next issue.
	WE are very much afraid that Prest. Arthur
is treading on dangerous ground when he takes
away such offices from women as have been
granted to them heretofore. The leaders of the
Woman Suffrage party will not silently submit
to any such indignity, and in the coming con-
vention to be held in Washington January next
he will in all probability hear from them em-
phatically. In fact he has very likely got into
or very near to a hornet’s nest.
	CHRISTMAS is coming, as all the shop windows
testify. There has] never been such an elab-
ate display here of fancy goods, books, toys and
all sorts of articles suitable for Santa Claus in
his annual round as there is this season. Surely
all the little folks are going to be gladdened on
that glad day, and husbands, wives, fathers,
mothers, grand-parents, brothers, sisters, aunts,
uncles, cousins and relatives generally, as also
other friends, will certainly receive a call this
year that will make them remember "auld lang
syne.” 
	WE call the attention of our readers to the ad-
vertisement of Bro. Heman’s Bible Almanac for
1882, It is an unique little work, and is intended


to do good by calling to notice, in a silent way, a
passage of Scripture on each day in the year, and
by this means creating a desire in the mind to
search the book of all books, the Bible. There
are several subjects ably treated upon in this
little work, and it recommends itself well to
those who would be daily reminded of living
acceptable lives.
	ON Sunday, Dec. 4, in company with Sister
Eliza R. S. Smith, we visited South Jordan
Ward, where we met with the Primary Associa-
ciation at 10 a. m., Mrs. N. J. Oliver presiding.
The exercises were well rendered, the children’s
singing very good, and a marked improvement
was manifest. After the Sacrament services in
the afternoon, Bishop Wm. Bills announced that
the meeting would be in the hands of the sis-
ters. Mrs. Ann Holt, President of the Relief
Society of the ward, then made a few introduc-
tory remarks, and Sisters Smith and Wells each
addressed the congregation for a short time.
Bishop Bills expressed his great pleasure in the
day’s proceedings; felt blest with the teachings
given by the sisters.


PLEASANT GATHERING.

	Some of the most intimate friends of Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne met at her residence on the eve-
ning of Nov. 18, by invitation of her daughters,
who had ingeniously prepared this little surprise
for their mother, during her absence on a tour
through Wasatch Co. The party was in honor
of the anniversary of the lady's birth, and had
been carefully arranged, the guests convening
while she was purposely detained away on some
pretext. The girls had provided an elaborate
and delicious dinner, to which the guests did
ample justice. Among those who participated
in the enjoyments of the evening were Hon.
George Q. Cannon and wife, Hon. D. H. Wells
and wife, Hon. R. T. Burton and wife, George
H. Taylor, Esq., and wife, Sisters Eliza R. S.
Smith, S. M. Kimball, Marinda N. Hyde, E.
Howard, B. W. Smith, Jane Richardson, E.
Hales, S. J. Spencer and others beside the fam-
ily.
	The time was spent in social conversation, and
some good old-fashioned music and singing by
the sons and daughters of the family was ad-
mirably rendered, which was very enjoyable to
all. Towards the close of the evening, President
Cannon responded to a request of Mrs. Horne's
in a short speech, expressing the kind feelings
he entertained for the family, and referring to
the many agreeable associations of the past in
that house. Spoke of the sweet interchange of
feeling which existed among the Saints, and his
appreciation of such enjoyments. One after an-
other followed in a few words of congratulation
and good wishes, all expressing the kindliest
feelings for Brother and Sister Horne and their
amiable family. We add our congratulations to
those of her "dear five hundred friends," and
trust that her useful life may be prolonged, and
that she may yet reap an abundant harvest in
return for the good seed she has sown in Zion,
and that not only shall her husband praise her,
and her children rise up and call her blessed,
but thousands of others who are familiar with
her good works and labors among the people.
								AUNT EM.


LITTLE EDITH.

    Died on the San Juan River, New Mexico,
Nov. 8, 1881, of inflammation of the brain and
throat disease, Edith, daughter of Luther C. and
Mary Stewart Burnham.  Little Edith was born
in St. John's, Arizona, Oct. 3, 1880.--Com.

    "Death lays on her, like an untimely frost
     Upon the fairest flower of all the field."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿We deeply sympathize with the bereaved
parents in their sorrow for their dear little one,
but we know they believe firmly and look for-
ward hopefully to the morning of the resurrec-
tion, when they will receive little Edith again,
pure and spotless as they laid her away.


LITTLE TOMMIE.
				    ------
	Died in Salt Lake City, Thursday, Nov. 17,
1881, of diphtheria, after a severe illness of two
weeks, Thomas Edwin Wallin, aged nearly
three years.  He was the son of C. E. and Eliza
W. Wallin.  The mother departed this life in
August last, but little Tommie was affectionately
nursed and cared for by those who loved him
tenderly and who mourn for him sincerely. The
child's sufferings were most heart-rending, yet
he was brave as a man could be to the very last.
The little one was born in this city Dec. 24, 1878,
and was consequently three years old except a
few days.  The funeral was held on Friday, the
18th ult., at one o'clock, and the dear little one
was laid by the side of his mother and baby sis-
ter. He was a very affectionate child, and old
beyond his years—just such an one as might be
expected would be taken away early.

	“Does a mother's fond embrace
		Fold thee in that far-off land?
	Does a sister’s smiling face
		Greet thee in the angel band?"
							AUNT EM.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

ON THE DEATH OF SISTER S. M. HEYWOOD.

Fold her hands peacefully, she's gone to her rest,
Like a tired, weary child, on its fond mother's breast.
Her sorrows are over, her trials are ended;
No more will the sunshine and shadow be blended.
			Only rest, sweet rest,
			With the blest, ever rest.

No more will her heart ache, she'll never shed tears,
For the love of her Father will calm all her fears;
Her record's been noble, a crown she has won—
Her life has gone out like a bright setting sun.
		Then rest, only rest,
		With the blest, ever rest.

Ours the anguish, the sorrow, the sigh,
The fast falling tears, when no one is by;
Hers the great gain, the peace and the joy—
A sweet rest in heaven, where nanght can annoy.
	Now rest, sister, rest,
	With the blest, ever rest.

Fare thee well, sister, we must bid thee goodby,
Till we meet thee again, where no one will die;
Oh, watch for our coming, come down to the gate—
And for that re-union we will patiently wait.
	For rest, sweet rest,
	With the blest, with the blest.

Kiss our dear loved ones—you knew them so well—
And give them the message that we cannot tell;
We remember each one—each link in the chain;
Oh, when shall we meet them, those loved ones, again?
		And rest, only rest,
		With the blest, ever rest.

Calmly and sweetly you've gone to your rest,
In honor and gladness joined hands with the blest;
Been true to the end, will receive the reward
Of life everlasting with Jesus the Lord.
	And rest with the blest,
	Forever rest.
							LYDIA D. ALDER.

	The loved and much lamented Mrs. S. M.
Heywood has gone from our midst.
	Sister Sarepta M. Heywood was born Nov. 22,
1823, and died Dec. 4, 1881, in Salt Lake City,
Utah. She was married to Joseph L. Heywood
May 29, 1841, in Beloit, Wisconsin; had six chil-
dren, three sons and three daughters. She had
followed one son and two daughters to the grave,

[Column 2]
and two sons and a daughter live to mourn her
loss.
	My first acquaintance with this estimable lady
was in 1842, in the city of Quincy, Illinois, not
far from the time when she joined the Church
of Latter-day Saints. On our first acquain-
tance a kindred feeling drew us together, and
that congeniality which ever exists between
kindred spirits has strengthened our love and
union through a long and very intimate acquain-
tance. To our mutual gratification, a kind Provi-
dence so ordered that when we located in Salt
Lake City our homes were on the same block,
where we have lived near neighbors and dear
friends twenty-eight years.
	When, in February, 1866, we were organized
into a Relief Society, (with the approval of our
Bishop) I chose her as my first Counselor in the
R. S. Board, and since that time we have worked
side by side in performing the many labors and
discharging the high responsibilities which de-
volved upon us, without a discordant feeling.
At all times and in all emergencies, she has been
a true friend and a wise counselor.
	As a Society, in her we have lost a firm sup-
port; and the poor, a good Samaritan in sickness.
She was an ever ready help in sorrow; her words
were like soothing balm, and her presence al-
ways cheering. But words are too weak to des-
cribe her noble worth—language too faint to ex-
press the feelings of my heart. And oh, may
God comfort the hearts of the bereaved children
of that kind and affectionate mother.
	In one of our Society meetings, a little pre-
vious to her last sickness, Sister Heywood made
the request of her sisters that, should she pass
away before us, we would sing "Weep, weep not
for me, Zion," at her funeral. The request was
complied with by the choir singing that beauti-
ful hymn in a very touching and impressive
manner, that came home to every heart; and
who could help weeping? In all that large and
crowded assembly apparently not one.
	Of Sister Heywood it may well be said,
"Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord."
She had "fought the good fight, she had kept
the faith," and had secured the blessed privilege
of "coming forth in the morning of the first
resurrection, crowned with glory, immortality
and eternal lives."
						MARINDA HYDE.

Truly a mother and a friend has fallen
	Into the arms of calm and needful sleep!
A Saint has passed beyond these scenes enthralling!
	And yet we cannot, cannot choose but weep.

We cannot sense the stern reality,
	The inevitable end,
That she has passed to immortality—
	That we have lost a friend.

Many will miss her gentle ministration,
	Her counsel, true and kind;
The love that sensed another's situation,
	And sought some balm to find.

The ready hand, the gleam of satisfaction
	That she some good could do;
The nameless, yet the sweet and pure attraction,
	That hearts towards her drew.

Rarely 'tis given unto creatures human
	To far exceed her worth;
A faithful, patient, dear, devoted woman,
	Too good to stay on earth.

Dark were the waters that her soul went under,
	The storms through which she passed;
So frail her body, one can hardly wonder
	She has succumbed at last.

And shall we think of her as dead? Nay; rather
	That she has gone to rest;
Entered the mansions where our royal Father
	Receives His loved and best;

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
				-----
	Friday, Nov. 25, 1881, was the 67th anniver-
sary of Sister Rhoda A. Miller’s birthday, wife
of Bishop Reuben Miller; and the officers and
members of the Relief Society of Mill Creek,
wishing to express their respect for her as their
president, and appreciation of her labors in the
interest of the poor and other good works, ar-
ranged to give her a surprise party, and at 11
o’clock about one hundred of her friends met at
the ward meeting house, and from there pro-
ceeded to the residence of Sister Miller. The 
party was under the direction of her counselors
and the presiding teachers.
	An address written for the occasion was read
by the secretary, after which Sister Miller was
presented with a picture of the Presidency of
the Church and Twelve Apostles, with her
name and age and the names of those who pre-
sented it in letters of gold.
	The Bishop and Counselors being present by
invitation, were called upon to make a few re-
marks. The Bishop said he hoped they were
deserving of the respect shown them, it did him
good to see the sisters. Spoke of his health,
that his disease was one that might take him off 
at any time, and he was thankful that he had
been faithful in this Gospel. He was very much
affected and overjoyed by the presence of so
many of the members of the ward, and felt to
prize the picture very highly; he would not take
a thousand dollars for it if he could not get an-
other.
	Counselor Alexander Hill made some very
good remarks in honor of Sister Miller; said he
had been acquainted with her a great many
years, and had always found her a good, moth-
erly woman, ready to assist the poor and needy.
	Washington Lemon also made some very good
and instructive remarks.
	President R. A. Miller said the picture was
very nice, but her sisters were more dear to her
than anything else, and it made her feel good to
see their happy faces, and she felt grateful to
them for their good will, and felt to bless them
all with peace and plenty.
	We were then favored with some very melo-
dious music from the Mill Creek band.
	Tables were set with all kinds of delicious
food furnished by the ladies of the party. The
people were seated, and Bishop Miller pro-
nounced the blessing. After dinner was over,
all the food that was left (which was an im-
mense quantity) was packed up and sent to the
poor of the ward.
	The whole affair was kept a profound secret
from Sister Miller until the guests had assem-
bled.  The party was a complete success, and a
good spirit prevailed throughout.  In conclusion
we say, God bless Sister Miller, and may her re-
maining days on earth be spent in the same no-
ble and useful manner as her past life has been.
				NELLIE SPENCER, Sec'y.


﻿R.S.Y.L.M.I.A. AND PRIMARY
			   REPORTS.
				------
	The ladies regular semi-monthly meeting in
the 14th Ward Assembly Hall, held Saturday,
Nov. 5, was well attended. Minutes of the Y.
L.M.I.A. and P.A. were read by the young
secretaries, from the following wards: 21st, 20th,
11th, 8th and 10th P.A.; 3d, 11th and 19th Y.
L.M.I.A.
	President Horne made some encouraging re-
marks to the young secretaries; said she felt
proud of them aud the members of the Asso-
ciations they represented.
	Sister E.R.S. Smith occupied most of the
time. She spoke of the many duties of the sis-
ters, and the great necessity of living near to
the Lord in order to perform them in a proper
manner. Gave much counsel and instruction.
Referred to her journeyings among the people.
Spoke of the intention of the sisters to build a


[Column 1]
woolen factory in Sanpete County. At the
close of her address she blessed the sisters in a
very impressive manner.
	Sister Helen M. Whitney spoke of her exper-
ience in the past, her desire to be useful, the
testimonies she had received, her early teach-
ings, etc. The congregation sang "The Spirit of
God," etc. Benediction by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
				A. J. CROCHERON, Sec'y

	The meeting November 19 at the same place
was also well attended. Reports of Y. L. M. I.
A.were read from the 16th, 3d, 11th and 19th
Wards; P. A. from the 10th and 19th Wards.
	President Horne made the opening speech;
commenced by giving a brief sketch of her re-
cent visit to Wasatch Stake in company with
Sister E. Howard, and related some incidents
that transpired during their visits from place to
place.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith spoke of her journey
through the Southern settlements, of the pros-
perity of the Saints and the good condition of
the organizations. She had visited Payson,
Spanish Fork and Santaquin; at each of these
three meetings were held. At Goshen two
meetings, at Springville and at Provo three, and
after the other sisters returned she visited the
Fifth Ward, Provo, in company with Sister
Smoot. In all her labors she had been blest, and
everywhere had found precious, good sisters. In
closing her remarks Sister Elian blest the con-
gregation in the name of the Lord.
	Sister Ellen C. Clawson gave a brief account
of her trip to St. George, in company with Prest.
Taylor and party, and a beautiful description of
the Temple, and testified, as all do who visit it,
of the peaceful heavenly influence that pervades
that holy place.
	Sister Nancy A. Clark, President of Y. L. M.
L. A. Davis Stake, occupied  a few  moments in
speaking earnestly of the necessity of earning
an exaltation, and other relative subjects. Sis-
ter Mary Davis made a few good remarks. Then
followed reading of the minutes of a special
meeting of the officers of Y. L. M. I. A. of Salt
Lake City, held Nov. 12, at the residence of
Mrs. B. W. Smith.  Sang "Lord dismiss us."
Benediction by Mrs. E. S. Taylor.
				E. S. Taylor, Sec'y pro. Tem.

	The semi-monthly ladies' meeting in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday, Dec. 3, was a
very interesting one. Minutes were read from
Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. of several wards, fol-
lowed by interesting and instructive speeches
from Sisters Louie Felt, E. S. Taylor, E. How-
ard, J. Howe, E. C. S. Clawson, M. Steele and
M. I. Horne. These meetings are a great bene-
fit to the several organizations, for here express-
sion is given to the best thoughts of the speak-
ers in the most intelligent and able manner.
Subjects are lucidly treated upon that are calcu-
lated to promote the growth of the institutions
organized for the higher education of woman.

				WASATCH.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
cieties of Wasatch Stake convened in Heber
City Hall, Nov. 11, 1881. Present on the
stand were President Emma Brown and her
second Counselor, Mary Daybell, Presidents of
the Heber Ward Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I.
A. and Primary Associations; also Prest.
Hatch, Bishop Murdock, Patriarch Hicken and
other brethren. We also had the great plea-
sure of having Sisters M. I. Horne and E.
Howard to visit and talk to us during our Con-
ference. After the usual opening exercises,
minutes of the last Conference were read and
accepted, also the reports of the various Relief
Societies, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Asso-
ciations, which were very favorable. The sev-
eral presidents of branch societies gave verbal
reports, which were very encouraging.
	Sister Horne gave us some excellent counsel.
Said the sisters should attend their meetings, it
is their duty; they should be faithful in teach-
ing their children the principles of truth,
which, if adhered to, will make them honor-
able members in the Church and Kingdom of
God. To see that our children are at home
nights, not roaming about the streets learning
things not calculated to improve their minds.
Made many other suggestions intended to leave
a good impression. Meeting adjourned until
two o'clock p. m.

[Column 2]
	Afternoon session; Singing. Prayer by
Bro. McGee. Singing. Verbal reports were
then given by the several presidents of the Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Assoiations. Sister
Howard gave some good counsel; said we
should always read good books, and pray to
our Father that we may always have His Spirit
to be with us to guide us in every action of
our lives. Exhorted the sisters to educate
their children in obedience and virtue, to read
all good books, and entreated them not to send
them to secretarian schools. Thought that
mothers should encourage their sons when
called upon missions, to be willing to respond.
Spoke on plural marriage; said it was a right
and true principle, and was revealed for the
improvement, refinement and salvation of the
human family. Told the sisters they should
all be united in their faith and work together
for the building up of the Kingdom of God,
and not follow too much after the fashions of
the world.
	Sister Horne instructed the sisters to store
up grain for the time of need. Said the Lord
has blessed us thus far, and if we try to do
right He will continue to bless us. Exhorted
the mothers to train their children in the fear
of God, and be punctual in sending them to
the Primary Associations.
	Prest. Emma Brown then thanked the sis-
ters for coming to visit us. Conference ad-
journed for three months. Singing, "Praise to
the man who communed with Jehovah. Bene-
diction by Prest. Hatch.
		MARY BRONSON, Sec'y.
		AVIS M. BRONSON, Asst. Sec'y.

		MANTI PRIMARY FAIR.
	Our Fair was held in the Meeting House on
Wednesday and Thursday, October 26 and 27.
At ten o'clock on Wednesday morning the fol-
lowing brethren made some remarks: Brothers
Brown, Kenner and Wareham. Sister Ware-
ham, President of the Relief Society, also
spoke a short time. Pres't. John Maiben was
also present. After which the Fair was de-
clared open by Sister Phoebe Maiben. There
were present at the opening, the Presidents of
both Primary Associations and their Counsel-
ors, also Stake President P. A., Phoebe Maiben,
and her Counselors.
	To begin and describe all that was exhibited
would be impossible. as the sight was so grand.
The first that drew our attention was a fine ex-
hibit of pastry, made by girls belonging to the
Association; in the midst of which was a stuffed
fox, owned by Brother Wm. A. Cox. There
was a nice web of cloth, spun by a girl aged
twelve years, and woven by another aged four-
teen years; a grand display of mottoes, worked
by girls of both Associations; a hood and muff,
made by a girl aged fourteen, were much ad-
mired; there was a good show of rugs and
quilts, and many other useful articles; one quilt
was donated to the Temple. The boys were
not behind, either; potatoes, corn, beets, squash
and fruits were in abundance; a covered foot-
stool, garden rakes, a door, hatchet, and several
other like things, were made by boys from eight
to fourteen years of age. Sister Weibye ex-
hibited some cocoons, which shows that the
sisters are working at the silk industry. The
most of the articles exhibited were useful, al-
though the ornamental showed well too.
	The general feeling expressed by the older
folks toward the Fair was good. The little
folks of the Association are happy to say it
was well patronized, as we were able to donate
ten dollars to help build the Tabernacle; the
rest being divided between the two Associations.
					GEORGE SCOTT.


110	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ISABELLA Beecher Hooker took part in the
discussions of the Social Science Association,
which convened at Saratoga in September.


FROM THE SANDWICH ISLANDS.

KOLOA KAUAI, Nov. 14, 1881.

	I left Laie two weeks last Friday and came
to Honolulu with the other brethren and about
one hundred of the natives; besides there were
about forty went by steamer. We left Laie at
6:30 o'clock, and rode over to Kahana for
breakfast, according to previous arrangement,
arriving there at 8 o'clock, and after partaking
of the fat things of Kahana, we rode on to
Hakipuu; got there at 10, where we were invited
in again, but not knowing of this before, rode
on to Kaneohe for dinner. There we had the
best native meal that I ever partook of; it was
mostly Haule food, pies. cake, chicken and the
like. The natives had their dinner out in a
bowery that had been built for the occasion.
	After ,dinner we resumed our journey, arriv-
ing at Honolulu about three o'clock- We all
rode into Honolulu in double file, Prest. H. H.
Cluff and our brethren leading. It was quite
a show. The next day our Conference began.
After our afternoon meeting was out we all
went down town, and while there the steamer
was signalled. If the town was ever in a bustle
it was then, for the King of the Islands was on
the steamer, and arrangements had been made
to form in procession and escort him to the
palace. They were not expecting him until
Monday, and had not got everything arranged
as they wanted it; but we all gathered as quickly
as possible and formed in procession, and as he
passed up the street we all fell into line and
marched up to the palace.	*	*	*
	Sunday we resumed our Conference again,
and on Monday they had the former proces-
sion over, as the other was arranged in such a
hurry that the committee was not satisfied.
We arranged again according to programme,
and passed by the doors of the palace, and
gave three cheers for King Kalakaua. Our
banner was the Eastern and Western hemi-
spheres, with the inscription, "Welcome home,
our beloved David, King, Circumnavigator
Laie Colony." This was the large one. The
next was a beehive with native inscription upon
it. The Relief Society had a banner also, giv-
ing the object of the institution. Our people
turned out well, and we made a good showing.
In the evening there was a torchlight proces-
sion by the fire brigade. It was grand, reach-
ing three blocks. Every one had a torch in
his hand, and the engines were all decorated
with lights. There are different nations in the
fire company; the whites had one, the natives
one, and the Chinamen one. There were flags
all over the streets, through which the proces-
sion passed, and a number of fine arches,
reaching from one side of the street to the
other were decorated in the finest style with
flags, ferns and boughs of different kinds. The
Chinamen had a very fine arch; it was on a
corner, and started from each of the four cor-
ners of the blocks. It was nicely arranged
with gaily colored prints of every description,
and wreaths of flowers, ferns and shrubs, and
a great many Chinese lanterns all over it, and
a very large one that revolved in the centre,
which cost $150; on each side of it was hung
the picture of His Majesty, about 13x16, and
mottoes of greeting on every side. Farther
up the street was another, not so gay and
showy, but neat and grand. It represented the
different countries the King had visited, and a
large ship on the ocean on one side of it and
the cars on the other. His soldiers made a
grand military display, also the brass bands;
the musicians play as well as any I ever heard,
that is the old band—this was the first appear-
ance of the younger band before the public.
They are all boys that would never go to
school, so they were made musicians of. The
laws are quite strict in regard to attending
school, so they were made musicians of. The
laws are quite strict in regard to attending
schools in this country, but are not so particu-
lar whether the children learn or not; but they


are obliged to go, or the officers are sent after
them.
	*	*	*	I spent my 22d birthday on
Laie. In the forenoon I was at work down at
the mill, but in the afternoon we that were not
working took a ride up in the gulch, and got
some of the finest oranges I have ever seen.
We brought down about a bushel, then took a
sea bath, and about 7 o'clock Benjamin Cluff
and Bro. Knell came down and told me that
they wanted me at Prest. Cluff's. When I ar-
rived there I found a native meal spread on
the floor in native style. It had been done in
honor of my birthday. Bro. Cluff said as this
was my first birthday on the islands, he thought
a native meal would be as appropriate as any-
thing; I must say I enjoyed it. The table was
laid out in the following manner: at the head
of the table was a dish of poi, and at the foot
a dish of pork, nicely cooked; there was also
one of raw fish and one of beef, also some
young onions. This is a great variety for a
native meal. Bro. Cluff gave me a nice silk
handkerchief, and Sister Cluff a book, "The
History of the Normans in Europe."
	There extracts are from a private letter
written by a young Elder to his parents.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 111


ON MARRIAGE.

	As woman's voice is being heard on various
subjects, I thought I would throw in my mite
with others of my sisters. It seems that the
subject of marriage is of great importance to
the youth of the Latter-day Saints, as well as
those more advanced in years. It is one of
the greatest ordeals placed upon man and wo-
man. Let us pause and consider, ere it is too
late, while we have the opportunity, and teach
it to our children, for as the twig is bent the
tree is inclined. Let the youth of the Latter-
day Saints understand that God has authority
on earth to marry, that will stand through
time and all eternity. An instance of the un-
certainty of life has brought to my mind many
reflections. How careful we should be not to
neglect those ordinances which it is our privi-
lege to perform while living here on this earth.
Life is uncertain, and the duties of to-day
should not be neglected. We, as mothers in
the Kingdom of God, should do all we can
with the rising generation to make them un-
derstand that those ordinances pertaining to
marriage should be performed here in the flesh,
in order to secure eternal life and exaltation;
for we are told by our Savior, there is no mar-
rying or giving in marriage in the world to
come. Let the Saints appear beyond the vail
with the proper wedding garment on; that will
permit them to pass by the angels and enter
into their glory.
	We had some very interesting remarks from
Apostle M. Thatcher and others here on this
subject, on the occasion of the funeral of Joel
A. Hinckley. His untimely death has cast a
gloom over this community, and we deeply
sympathize with his bereaved wife and friends.
							MARY HAWKS.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	DEAR EDITOR:—We have been favored
with a visit from our honored and esteemed
President John Taylor, and company. They
were the guests of President Erastus Snow,
who had just returned from an arduous trip
to Arizona. It was a time of rejoicing, as
this is the first time we have had the pleasure
of Prest. Taylor's company for four years; hope
to have more such visits, though we know "it
is a hard road to travel," but a change does us
good sometimes, if it is not of the most agree-
able character, and makes us appreciate the
good roads. After remaining here a few days,


the President and party left to visit the settle-
ments up the river, and return home by way of
Kanab.
	President Minerva W. Snow, with her Coun
selor, Anna S. Ivins, accompanied them as far
as Rockville, where they held meetings with
the Relief Societies, also at the settlements
they passed through on their way home; found
all doing well.
	All is peace and quiet here, with little to
vary the monotony of every-day life. The
weather is delightful, and were it not for the
freezing at night, we would hardly realize that
winter is approaching. The days are warm
and pleasant, no rain or snow, either of which
would be acceptable, as the dust in the streets
is several inches deep.
	Work is still going on in the Temple, which
keeps many busy, but it is truly "a labor of
love," and brings with it a satisfaction that we
are doing that for the dead which they did not
have an opportunity of doing for themselves.
	With kind regards, I remain your sister in
the Gospel.
	E. BENTLEY, Cor. Sec'y.
St. George, Nov. 26, 1881.


LETTER.

	October 29, 1881.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Madaine—At the next Washington
Convention it is intended by the N. W. S. As-
sociation to make an unprecedented effort to
command the attention of Congress, and to se-
cure from that body the passage of certain
bills.
	Never has there been so favorable an oppor-
tunity to present our grievances, never so flat-
tering a prospect of securing their redress.
The question of woman's political status has
become an issue in many of the States. From
at least one-third of the States representatives
and senators will go up to the National Con-
gress conscious that their constituencies will be
called upon to decide some point of the suf-
frage question at home within the next twelve
or twenty-four months.
	With this knowledge, before going to Wash-
ington they must already have given some
thought to the problem of woman's relation to
the Government, and they will thus in a mea-
sure be prepared for its consideration.
	It is to be hoped that the proposition for a
XVIth Amendment will be passed by the
present Congress, as sixteen years have elapsed
since we first made our demand for National
Protection. Whether to be passed or again
rejected, such a proposition will, without doubt,
be submitted. It is moreover certain that an
attempt will be made to secure the appoint-
ment of a standing committee in both houses,
whose business it shall be to consider the peti-
tions and demands of women citizens.
	That the coming Convention may be so
wisely managed as to secure from Congress the
justice above indicated, it is desirable that a
committee of leading suffragists, representing
the different sections of the country, be sent to
Washington a fortnight preceding the date of
the Convention, to do the preliminary work
necessary to the best success of the meeting.
Before beginning their work at Washington it
is desirable that the committee have reliable
data as to the attitude of each member of Con-
gress toward the Sixteenth Amendment and
the Standing Committee. We therefore re-
quest you, either by correspondence or by per-
sonal interview with the Delegate from your
Territory, to secure such a knowledge of his
views as will enable you to fill out the enclosed
set of blanks. As it will be the duty of the
Chairman of the Executive Committee to col
late the information thus obtained, please for
ward the blanks to her address (May Wrigh


Sewell, 405 North Pennsylvania street, Indian-
apolis, Indiana).
	Upon the data to be thus secured, our suc-
cess this winter at the National Capital very
largely depends. Every report should be in
Mrs. Sewall's hands by December 15.
	Begging you neither to neglect nor delay a
response to this appeal, we are, most cordially,
	Yours for Equal Suffrage,
		ELIZABETH CADY STANTON,
				President N. W. S. A.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
		MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,
				Vice Presidents at Large.
		RACHEL G. FOSTER,
				Corresponding Secretary.
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
			Chairman Executive Committee.


MOTHERS VERSUS DIPHTHERIA 

	In the life of watchfulness and care to which
mothers are called, there is no foe so dreaded
as diphtheria. His approaches are so stealthy,
his coming so unexpected, that almost without
warning, his cruel hand is at the throat of the
victim, and the tenderest love, the most watch-
ful care, the greatest skill, are often powerless
to loosen the fatal hold. Scientists tell us that
this disease is a poisoning of the blood; now
the blood may be poisoned either by bad food
or bad air. Bad food I do not believe to be
very common in this land of plenty; good
bread is the rule, and good meat is found occa-
sionally in nearly every home. Many mothers
oversee with great care the diet of their chil-
dren; the nourishing oat-meal porridge and
pure milk are carefully supplied, and few are
the children accustomed to any variety of food,
who do not see on some tempting dish the ban
of mother's disapproval. She takes the same
care to supply pure air; rooms are often aired,
and any intrusion of sewer gas, or anything
else of a hurtful nature, is vigilantly guarded
against in the home.
	But there her power ends; her children spend
a large proportion of their waking hours in
school, but the tender care which elsewhere
surrounds them day and night cannot enter
those crowded portals. Nowhere is that care
more needed. Enter the schoolroom which the
city provides for your little ones, near the close
of the session; as you open the door, coming
from the pure outer air, you almost gasp for
breath. Here are perhaps sixty little children,
many of them wearing clothes not only soiled,
but filled with the mingled odors of their poor
homes, and their bodies, perhaps never thor-
oughly bathed since their babyhood. What a
volume of pure air it must take to replace that,
poisoned by the impurities thrown off, not only
by such bodies, but by sixty pairs of lungs!
One large schoolhouse in Boston, Chauncy Hall,
justly claims to be thoroughly ventilated; but
this result is accomplished at such a large ex-
pense, that we can hardly expect the system to 
be employed in the public schools. A cele-
brated writer on sanitary subjects is quoted in
the Journal of Education as saying that chil-
dren ought never to be kept through an entire
session in one room; the air becomes in a short
time unfit to breathe. I know that efforts are
made to keep the air pure by opening windows
at intervals, but such means cannot accomplish
much where the rooms are so crowded. In ad-
dition, the presence of water-closets in the base-
ment is sometimes quite evident to the visitor
upstairs. In my own neighborhood, an epi-
demic of diphtheria was traced directly to the
defective sanitary condition of a primary school
house; the condition of the building was im-
proved; but homes made desolate, and parents' 
hearts sorely wounded, remain to bear witness
to the evil. I once saw a class of little chil-
dren leaving school at the end of the afternoon
session; among them I recognized a dear child,


an only daughter and the idol of her home;
her face had an unhealthy flush, and as she
walked slowly homeward in the declining light
of the short day, I wished that instead of be-
ing confined all day in the close school room,
she might be playing out of doors in the fresh
air. In a few a weeks I heard the story of her
death from diphtheria, accompanied by an ex-
pression of wonder that that disease should
have attacked her in her healthful home; but
the cause did not seem so mysterious to me.
	But not only should the air in the school
room be pure, but children should be confined
there fewer hours. A wise physician; who had
attended a little boy through a long attack of
illness, impressed upon his mother, when he
began to recover, the necessity of his being
much in the open air. "But," objected the
mother, "he is subject to sore throat, would it
be well to send him out in all weather?" "If
the weather is very bad, it may be necessary to
keep him in a day, but let him be out all the
more the next day to make up for it." So often
was this advice repeated, that the mother could
not but follow it, and now the boy in his eighth
year is stout and strong, careless of fatigue,
throwing off easily any cold or slight indispo-
sition; he has never been to school a day in his
life, but spends an hour a day by his mother's
side learning his simple tasks, and nearly all
the rest of the day is out of doors. How dif-
ferent it is with a child who is sent to school
before the sun is very high, in these short win-
ter days. He must be in his seat, and, with
the exception of the intermission for dinner, is
not released until the sun is near its setting.
Surely our young children need more play-
time out of doors.
	Another thing closely affecting the health of
children in school is the amount and kind of
study required from them. I am told that
children between six and seven are expected to
answer promptly such questions as this: "Add
two-thirds of six and three-fourths of eight."
A mother reports to the Journal of Education
the really appalling task her daughter was re-
quired to commit to memory at home; and
mother of a young girl in the higher grades
does not feel the natural anxiety for her daugh-
ter's health, at that critical age very much in-
tensified by the mental work and nervous
worry caused by her efforts to keep up with
her class?
	Mothers, are you contented to have no voice
in determining measures and methods which so
much affect the health of your children? Will
you give up entirely to a body of men, whom
you have not chosen; that responsibility which
you would be jealous of giving up even to the
child's nearest friend next to yourself? Have
you not interest enough in these vital questions
to take the trouble, and submit to the small
expense of voting for school committee? With
the united vote of the women, what might not
be done for the schools? A board of men and
women might be chosen who would care for the
children as they never have been cared for, and
never can be cared for otherwise; but the num-
ber of women now voting is too small to be
felt.							F. E. B.
	—Woman's Journal


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS

	MOTHER OF PEARL.—Mother-of-Pearl is
chiefly obtained from the pearl oyster—Melea-
grina Margaritifera—which is found in the
Gulf of California, at Panama, Cubagua, Cey-
lon, Madagascar, Swan River, Manila and the
Society Islands. The black-lipped shells from
Manila are most highly prized. The Society
Islands furnish the silver-lipped sort, and Pan-
ama the "bullock" shells. The peculiar and
varied tints exhibited by mother-of-pearl is due
to the structure of its surface, which, owing to


the great multitude of minute grooves upon it
—often many thousands to the inch—decom-
poses the light that falls upon it and reflects
different hues.

	SLEEP FOR CHILDREN.—There is no dan-
ger that children can sleep too much. The
old proverb, "He who sleeps eats," is illustrated
in those little ones who sleep most. Wakeful
children are almost always peevish, irritable
and lean. If they can be induced to sleep
abundantly, they are quite likely to become
good-natured and plump. Their sleep should
be, as much during the hours of darkness as
possible, and therefore it is better that they
should go to bed before sunset to have their
sleep out, than to lie long after sunrise in the
morning. It is well to let any healthful grow-
ing child or young person sleep until he wakes
himself, and give him such variety and amount
of out-door exercise as shall make him glad
when bed-time returns.

	IGNORANCE.—Probably there is no quality
more efficient in dispelling ignorance than the
courage which dares to confess it. The child
learns fast, simply because he has no self-
conscious fear of being thought uninformed.
He asks all manner of questions without any
qualm of misgiving, and exposes his own defi-
ciencies without any feeling of shame or dis-
tress. It is by his free and eager inquiries
that he improves so rapidly. Were he afraid
to show his ignorance, no one could help him
out of it. The enforced school lessons would
comprise nearly the whole of his education,
and even they could not be adapted to his
individual mental needs. As it is, every genial
and kind-hearted person with whom he comes
in contact is interested in adding to his stock
of knowledge. The same privilege might be
enjoyed by the adult, did not a feeling of shame
prevent him from seeking knowledge in the
same natural and simple way. But, as the
years pass, he comes to feel that the confession
of ignorance will expose him to ridicule, or
contempt, or censure, and he therefore hides it
under whatever pretext he can find.


"WILD FLOWERS of DESERET."

BY AGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.

A BOOK OF POEMS, 240 PAGES.  SUBJECTS: RE-
ligious, Sentimental, Humerous, Domestic, Historical,
Quaint and Pathetic. Leather, $1.50; Cloth, $1.35.
Postage free.  Address: Mrs. A. J. Crocheron, Box 419 Salt
Lake City.  Send Money by P. O. Order or Registered Letter.

JUST ISSUED
BY J. H. HEMAN,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
BIBLE ALMANAC 
FOR 1882.
(Second Year.)
15 cts. per copy.
A liberal discount will be allowed to Canvas-
sers.
A few copies of lasty year's Almanac for sale
at the same price.

NOTICE.
HAVING PROCURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE
cimens, etc, I am now prepared to give instructions
in the art of Obstetrics and other branches connected there-
with. My class will open Nov. 1st, 1881.  Those wishing to
join the class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send east for books.  Terms: Tuition, [--]
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
E. R. SHIPP, M. D., Salt Lake City.
OFFICE and RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z. C. M. I.

Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES, AND SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe i n the West. Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.

Home-Made SILK,
AT
OUTLER'S COMMISSION STORES.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WILL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES
75, 77, AND 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting,
Flannels, White Yarns, Wool Batting,
Shawls, Colored Yarns, Brooms,
Linseys, Cassimers, Washboards,
Jeans, Tweeds, Bruches, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No, 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also, a nice selection in 
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches.  Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH AND BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 and 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER AND STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

