VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1881.	NO. 11.


SUNSET PICTURES.

What a wondrous painter is the King of Day!
The Master Artist, we all must say;
Such skillful blending of light and shade,
Such rich, rare tints hath his pencil made,
That he who would copy despairs at last,
And aside the brush and colors cast;
Yet man, too, wonderful works hath wrought,
But to rival the sun in vain hath sought.

Shall I try to tell what I saw afar
In the sky one night, ere the twinkling star
P[--]ped forth to tell that the setting sun
The course of another day had run?
My eye first saw, as I looked above,
On a deep, dark cloud, God's sign of love—
His seal of covenant—rainbow bright,
Like a coronet fair on the brow of night.

But the scene soon changed, 'till glowing red,
Like a prairie fire, the flames on sped;
The smoke rolled high—then a change again—
Behold, an ocean with stormy main;
A rock bound coast, with a vessel tossed
By the [-]itiless wave, while the cry "We are lost!"
In fancy I hear, then, "Peace, be still,
'Tis the wind and the water obey my will."

You may call it fancy, yet I can find
Much to please and instruct the mind
In those sun-wrought pictures on cloudy sky—
His parting gift—his last good-bye;
Given to cheer through the night's dark hour,
'Til he comes again in his mighty power,
Cheering the earth and the weary heart;
Bidding the shadows and mists depart.
		HOPE.


[Column 1]

CONVERSATION.

	Conversation is a great art, and one in which
few excel. It is an accomplishment which
every one should try to acquire. Few people
study this art, and many think it is not neces-
sary, simply because they are great talkers—
great talkers in one sense of the phrase, but
small talkers in another. Good conversation
does not depend on the number of words, but
on the choice thereof. How often have I spent
an evening among my friends, pretty, bright,
intelligent young ladies and promising young
men, and never heard one single sentence ut-
tered that manifested thought, or edified one
in the least, and from these same little socia-
bles have returned home thinking what a 
worthless evening I had spent, listening to and
talking a host of nothings.
	I think it is a duly every one owes to him-
self and to society to make a study of conver-
sation. It is as true an art as painting, or
music, and it includes all the arts, for one who
is a perfect conversationalist has to understand
them all, so as to speak intelligently about
them.
	During Napoleon's life, the ladies of his
court were especially noted for their brilliant
conversational powers, and none more so than
the fair Empress herself; even when the wife
of Beauharnais, her home was the rendezvous
of politicians and men of letters, and never
was court society more brilliant than under her
sway. She encouraged all the arts and sciences
to a great extent, and excelled in them herself,
but in none did she display so much excellence
as in conversation.
	Among the most noted of her sex for this
power, perhaps the greatest, is Madam De
Stael, even as a child she displayed wonderful
talent in that direction. Her father's home

[Column 2]

was a place where assembled the greatest and
most learned of men, and all, even old, gray-
headed men, used to hover round this little
prodigy, and listen to her arguments and wit
with the deepest interest; she was but eleven
when she entertained her father's guests in this
manner. At the age of twenty she had gained
a great reputation as a wit, and she always
during her life, not only in Paris, but also in
foreign countries, was surrounded by an admir-
ing throng of the literati; she was singularly
eloquent, and her conversation was brilliant in
the extreme. This woman brought into society
in a most philosophical manner the history of
art, literature, manners, genius and national
taste. The French, as a people, have always
excelled in conversation, and their women es-
pecially have been noted for their brilliant ac-
quirements. Yet the Americans are not far in
the lurch, and noteworthy among them may
be mentioned Margaret Fuller. In her girl-
hood her zeal for good literature was most re-
markable. Her facilities for reading were
good, and she was surrounded by a circle of
highly cultivated young people, therefore, as
might be expected, she became a highly cul-
tured conversationalist. Though she did not,
perhaps, possess the natural abilities for con-
versation to so great an extent as Madam De
Stael, yet she cultivated that art to its highest
attainment. She gained high intellectual
reputation, for she was a great student. She
not only loved the art of conversation for her-
self, but also wished to instruct others in that
direction, and for this purpose she instituted a
remarkable conversational class, which stimu-
lated the minds of the more cultivated women
of Boston, her native city, and even now some
leaders of thought date back their first enlight-
enment to her, and wish their daughters might
have such guidance.
	Utah may still produce a Margaret Fuller,
perhaps it has; but few, comparatively, are the
young people here who interest themselves suf-
ficiently in the art of conversation to entertain
and edify those with whom they converse, even
upon interesting topics. I am sorry to have
to acknowledge that there is too much gossip
existing in society here, and would advise that
this be discountenanced, and the study of the
true conversational powers be instituted in its
stead. I am sure there is plenty of natural
ability, all that is lacking is the adaptability.
Our Young Ladies' Associations might be a
place where true conversation could be in-
dulged in to a great advantage. The President
could perform the part of a Margaret Fuller,
by choosing the subject and conducting the
conversation. All things that tend to elevate
the mind are in themselves religious, and the
principles of the Gospel certainly include all
high and worthy subjects; through proper con-
versation judiciously managed we might make
ourselves familiar with all the principles of our
religion, and combine with them the highest
thoughts of the most eminent men and women
of all ages.	ANNIE.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	ST. JOHN, APACHE, ARIZONA CO.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	This far-away place is the home of some of
our sisters, (and some very good ones too)
therefore it should be represented in your col-
umns. There are very good people here, good

[Column 2]

neighbors and kind friends, and I am pleased﻿
to say many are moving out on their city lots,
a little apart from the "outside element" by
which they were before surrounded.
	The inhabitants of St. John (the old town)
consist mostly of Mexicans, consequently their
houses are not calculated to please the eye of a
person used to the neat and tasteful homes in
Utah; and as our people have as yet had only
time enough to build rude shelters from the
elements, we have the better opportunity of
admiring the natural beauties of the country,
which is indeed lovely at this season of the
year. The grass completely covers the hills,
and also the city plot, making good pastures
for the calves close to the houses. Many kinds
of beautiful wild flowers are in bloom—they
seem to be doing their best, making good use
of the time by springing up in every available
place, as if aware that the time will be short
until they will be replaced by our cultivated
garden flowers. A few miles from here, on
the mountain road, the whole country is in
bloom with "morning glories"and"four o' clocks,"
together with many other kinds of flowers,
until it seems a perfect paradise.
	We have a beautiful site for a city, and with
the superior natural advantages and resources
of the country to those we have had in some
parts of Utah, causes me to feel that in a few
years, by the blessing of God, we shall have a
lovely city and prosperous homes.
	The Little Colorado, which a few months
ago was little indeed (as a person could step
across it), and it seemed to those who had
newly arrived a burlesque to call it a river,
has since the rainy season begun, become a
raging, foaming torrent, whose roaring could
be heard at quite a distance. It presented a
grand appearance as it dashed madly over the
rocks, showing how uncontrollable this little
stream could become, not a bad similitude, I
think, to the Kingdom of God, which, though
small at first, shall finally become irresistible
in its onward progress.
	The sisters here seem to be doing the best
they can under the circumstances, and a good
spirit prevails in our meetings. Our President
is Sister Richie, who seems to take a lively in-
terest and to faithfully discharge her duties in
that capacity, aided by her Counselors, Sisters
Ramsey and Tenney—the former well known
to many of the sisters in Utah, for her ability
and skill as a doctress, and the latter a woman
who is loved and respected by all who know
her. All the members seem desirous of per-
forming every duty and requirement, and to
labor unitedly with our Bishop and all the
brethren.
	We were favored last week with a visit from
our Stake President, Sister East, and some
others of the sisters from Snowflake and Tay-
lor. Sister East is well known in your city as
a woman of superior ability and great integ-
rity. She seems highly qualified for her posi-
tion, and gave us some excellent instructions,
as also did the sisters associated with her. Our
Bishop, who was present at our meeting, also
made some very excellent remarks for our in-
struction and encouragement, showing that he
appreciated the labors of the Relief Society,
and the sisters, as well as the brethren, cer-
tainly respect and appreciate the labors of
Bishop D. K. Udell; all seem to feel that he
is the right man in the right place, and his
equal could scarcely be found for the position
which he occupies.		ETKA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
	WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

		CONCLUDED.
	Early the same spring, 1880, Sister Eliza
attended the Sisters' Stake Conference in
Tooele City, and immediately after the Stake
Conference of R. S., Y. L. M. I. A and P. A.
in this city. She also attended meetings here
and there in the interest of the various or-
ganizations, and in several of the towns adja-
cent to the city branch organizations were ef-
fected, auxiliary to the parent Silk Associa-
tion, which had been completely reorganized
the same spring. One would think these meet-
ings and regular duties of her position as
Priestess in the House of the Lord were suffi-
cient tax upon the energies of a woman at her
time of life, but during this busy time she pre-
pared the copy for the Children’s Primary
Hymn Book for the press, and in the month
of June the manuscript was all in the hands
of the printers.
	At the time of the Ladies’ Quarterly Con-
ference held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
Saturday morning, June 19, Sister Eliza, the
subject of this sketch, was formally elected to
preside over all the organizations of Relief 
Societies in the Church, whether here or
abroad in the world. Prest. John Taylor made
the nomination himself, which was sustained
by a unanimous vote of the Conference. Presi-
dent Taylor then asked her whom she would
choose for her Counselors; she replied, Sisters
Zina D. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
who were then also nominated by Prest. Tay-
lor, and sustained by the vote of the Confer-
ence. Sister Sarah M. Kimball was also
chosen by Sister Eliza to fill the position of
Secretary, and Sister M. Isabella Horne as
Treasurer; these sisters were also nominated
and sustained in the same manner. Sister
Eliza made choice of these sisters to form a
central organization, to work with her in the
interest of Relief Societies. In the afternoon
of the same day Sister Eliza effected a central
organization of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations, and gave much special instruc-
tion to the officers upon the duties of the cen-
tral board of the each of these organizations.
	About the last of June Sister Eliza attended
the Children’s Fair in Farmington, which was
very satisfactory in all respects, and specially
gratifying to one who had organized and
worked so continuously and arduously in the
interest of the little people. Shortly after, in
the month of July, the Children’s Primary
Hymn Book was issued. These books have
been household treasures, causing Sister Eliza’s
memory to live in the hearts of the children,
and her songs will be sung to the latest gener-
ation by the children of Zion.
	On Saturday, July 17, at a meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, President
Taylor ordained Sister E. R. S. Smith to the
office to which she had been elected, saying:
	“Eliza Roxie Snow Smith, I lay my hands
upon thy head in the name of Jesus, and by
authority of the Holy Priesthood I set thee
apart to preside over the Relief Societies of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
and I confer upon thee this power and author-
ity and ordain thee to this office, that thou
mayst have power to expound the Scriptures,
and to bless, elevate and strengthen thy
sisters. The Lord is well pleased with
thee, with thy diligence, fidelity,
and zeal in the interest of thy sisters.
He has blessed thee exceedingly, and will con-
tinue to bless thee forever and ever; and I
bless thee with all thine heart can desire in
righteousness, and seal upon thee all former
blessings conferred upon thee by the Holy
Priesthood, in the name of Jesus. Amen.

[Column 2]
	President Taylor also ordained and set apart
her counselors and secretary.
	In August Sister Eliza made a tour through
the whole of Sanpete County, holding about
thirty meetings. She visited Thistle Valley
and assisted the Bishop in organizing a Relief
Society there, with one of the Indian sisters
as Counselor. She was blessed and set apart,
the first Indian woman ordained and set apart
to an office in this dispensation. Sister Eliza
addressed the Indians who were assembled for
some time, and when they were informed she
was the wife of the Prophet Joseph they were
greatly delighted, and all anxious to shake
hands with her and express their joy at seeing
one of the wives of the great Prophet.
	Returning from Sanpete by way of Levan,
Sister Eliza drove a horse and buggy the whole
distance from Fayette to Levan, twenty-six
miles, over the most fearful roads. In Septem-
ber following she attended the Sisters’ Confer-
ence of Sevier Stake at Richfield, and traveled
through that county, holding meetings in each
settlement, often three in one day. In October
she visited several towns in Utah County,
meeting with different organizations of Relief
Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associa-
tions.
	On the 8th of November, Sister Eliza left
Salt Lake City, accompanied by Sister Zina D.
Young, her Counselor, enroute for St. George,
visiting settlements and holding meetings by
the way, organizing and re-organizing the As-
sociations wherever circumstances required.
The people everywhere received them with the
warmest welcome. Arriving at St. George,
they took their abode for the winter at the
residence of Mrs. Minerva W. Snow, who after-
wards accompanied them much in their travels
among the people. Sister Eliza had some con-
siderable work to do for her ancestry and
friends in the Temple, but although she con-
sidered that an important matter, it was not
the only work she felt devolving upon her.
Her desire to aid the living, to counsel and in-
struct the young more especially, and to im-
press upon parents the necessity of stronger
safeguards for the protection of the children
in Zion, prompted her to greater exertions than
any one could have looked for from one of her
years in such unpropitious weather. It seemes
almost incredible, but it is nevertheless true,
that this veteran sister traveled over a thousand
miles, in carriages and wagons, after she ar-
rived at St. George, doing women’s missionary
work among the Saints. Her unwearied exer-
tions to reach the most remote hamlets and
villages, and her endeavors to benefit the sisters
in their respective districts, to strengthen the
hands of the weak and inspire all with a desire
to be useful and improve the talents given
them, were the true interpretation of her high
and holy mission.
	While in St. George, the anniversary of her
birthday was publicly celebrated, and the hon-
ors heaped upon her on that occasion were in
keeping with the beautiful life and magnificent
works of this distinguished Mother in Israel.
Speeches were made, toasts given, songs sung,
music rendered, praises chanted, and addresses
written in poetry and p[-]ose were read, and the
bounties of earth were gratefully partaken of.
All that could be done and said to express es-
teem and love for Sister Eliza seemed to have
been brought about on that occasion.
	On the same day the people of Weber Stake
paid a very delicate tribute to the honored lady
by a similar celebration in Ogden City. There
was nothing wanting to make the party com-
plete but the presence of the lady herself.
But in consideration of the people’s knowledge
of her being three hundred miles away, it
seems to me the highest compliment which
could have been paid her, and the most em-
phatic expression of the niche she filled in the
hearts of the people.

[Column 3]
	Sisters Eliza and Zina returned from St.
George March 31, and were met at the depot
by a party of thirty ladies, who escorted them
to the Lion House. Poems and addressed had
been written for the occasion by some of the
ladies, which were read during the evening.
Sister Eliza, though tired in body, was fresh in
spirit, and responded in a happy manner.
	Reinstated again in her home in the Lion
House, Sister Eliza commenced laboring as
usual in her several callings among the sisters
at home in Zion, and also to prepare another
book for the use of the Primary Associations.
	At the General Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, held in the
large Tabernacle in this city, April, 1881, Sis-
ter E. R. Snow Smith was sustained by unani-
mous vote of the Conference as President over
all the Relief Societies in the Church. Sisters
Zina D. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney
were also sustained as her Counselors.
	Sister Eliza has spent the past spring and
summer in visiting the Sisters’ Stake. Confer-
ence, attending annual or special meetings of
Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations in various places. Meantime,
when not engaged in public duties, she was
prepareing the manuscript of her new book,
“Bible Questions and Answers.” In Septem-
ber she visited Sanpete County, and among
other places Indianola, or Thistle Valley.
While therə she organized a Primary Associa-
tion, in which ten little Lamanite children were
enrolled as members, the beginning of a new
work.
	Since returning from Sanpete the book,
“Bible Questions and Answers,” has been is-
sued from the Juvenile Instructor Office, and
is now for sale. It is well calculated to give
the children of the Saints a knowledge of the
Scriptures, and little boys who commit those
answers to memory will be better prepared
with Scriptural arguments when they go out
into the world to preach the Gospel. Although
Sister Eliza has written and published many
books, all in the interest of the Kingdom of
God and for the encouragement and elevation
of the Saints, yet she does not feel she has
done enough, and is now setting about prepar-
ing books for the young which will contain
poems suitable for recitations, dialogues, etc.
	Sister Eliza is never idle; she is always em-
ployed in some labor for the benefit of Zion.
Her voice has been heard bearing testimony to
the truth and instructing the people in almost
every ward and settlement in Israel, and in
many places in foreign lands; her books are in
nearly every home of the Saints, and her songs
are sung in every land where the Gospel has
found its way. Thousands have been blessed
under her hands in the House of the Lord,
and in holy temples. She still lives and con-
tinues her noble work. She is brave, strong
and unflinching in her spirit, and God grant
she may live yet many years to preside as the
Elect Lady in the office to which she has been
appointed and set apart by the servants of
God.
	It would be difficult to find a woman who
has done so much public duty in the interest,
welfare and development of her sex as has the
subject of this sketch. That she has passed
through fiery ordeals none can doubt, but in
the strength of Israel’s God has been able to
say, “Not my will, O Father, but thine be
done.” Such a life needs no comment, but her
works should be recorded for the benefit of the
Saints, and that the daughters of Zion may,
knowing her good works and reading of her
noble life, emulate her wise example and be
stimulated to follow in her footsteps. And
while time shall last Sister Eliza’s songs will
be sung in Zion, and her memory live in the
hearts of the people, and her name be immor-
talized as Zion’s Poetess.
		E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"ONLY A GIRL.”

BY MRS. A. E. N. R.

Close the door carefully, muffle the tread,
Drop the white curtains 'round the white bed;
A pale mother's sleeping, aye give her rest,
See the fresh rosebud upon her white breast.
She has struggled with pain, she has wrestled with death;
Her’s is the victory! let not a breath
Awaken her slumber; hark! there’s a tread,
Nearer and nearer approaching the bed;
Manly his bearing—yea, noble his mien;
Lowly he bends the fair sleepers between;
Lifts the frail floweret with womanly care,
Breathlessly gazing, his lips part in prayer!
No! there’s a chill in the ambient air.
Each word falls distinctly and painfully slow,
Curdling and freezing the blood in its flow;
"It's only a girl!—a hush as of death
For the moment suspended each listener’s breath;
In the pause—the pale sleeper uplifted her eyes—
"I must have been dreaming," she said with surprise.
"I thought that a cold hand of iron touched my heart,
While hard, cruel words, like a poisonous dart,
Pierced my soul to the core; I sprang for my babe!
'It's only a girl!' were the words I heard said,
And Elmer! Oh, Elmer! that voice, was like thine;
That hand—angels spare me!—once warmly clasped
	mine,
As you called me more precious than ruby or pearl,
And yet, it was when I was was only a girl!
If a girl is thus dear, then the mother and wife
To every true man is as dear as his life!"
She clasped her cold hands o'er her hot, throbbing brow—
The blood had all rushed to that citadel now;
Then her words, quick and scathing, burned into the
	soul!
Emotion swayed reason beyond her control—
'It's only a girl!"—O man in thy strength,
Know that God measures souls by their depth, not their
	length;
The streamlet may wind over miles of fair earth,
Yet bear on its bosom no proud ship of worth;
A man may hold kingdoms, and nations control:
What is that to the birth of one beautiful soul ?
The germ in your strong arms, unfolded with care,
May, like Harriet Hosmer or Rosa Bonheur,
Move the world by their art, or lull it to rest
With poesy's magic, the balm of the blest.
The mission of motherhood! Man, do you dare
With sneers stain this sanctum sanctorum of prayer?
This Holy of Holies—this mightiest dower?
Dare to scoff at the sex in which lies this power?
Ah, where were the Mouarch, the Duke, and the Earl,
Had not each a mother—once "only a girl!"
And whence came thy being, and all the proud van
You marshalled in battle—yes, every man?
The magnet that led them through storm and through
	strife.
Was a mother, a sister, a sweatheart, or wife,
Each closely enshrined in his heart like a pearl;
And yet each fair image was "only a girl!"
It was only a girl that Deity chose
To incarnate the Christ; the story in prose
Sweeps down through the ages like stars through the
	night,
To illumine the world with its God-given light.
'Twas only frail woman that wept at the tomb,
And talked with the angels when Jesus had gone;
And woman that bore the glad tidings to man
That Christ, the Beloved, had risen again.
Go to the recking battle-fields of yore
And read the records, writ in human gore,
Of woman’s valor, mercy, courage, love,
And point me to one name that's carved above
The name of woman in such deeds as these,
And I will pray to Heaven, on bended knees,
That every child henceforth may be a boy;
That every father’s heart may leap with joy.
But ere in scorn you breathe "only a girl!"
Look; lest you cast aside the greater pearl.
	—SELECTED.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	These who have grown up in these valleys,
and have here pratised the principle of celes-

[Column 2]

tial marriage, have become accustomed to it,
and having but little opposition to contend
with, can have very little idea of the trial it
was to those who first entered the school. They
had to lean upon the arm of the Almighty,
and in the face of persecution, sorrow and
death, took up the cross and bore it heroically
for the sake of future generations, looking be-
yond this life for their reward. They under-
stood it to be a principle instituted solely for
the purpose of saving and exalting the human
family, not only the living, but those who had
died without a knowledge of the true plan of
salvation. It was considered a sacred and
holy duty, and the honest in heart who entered
into it did it in the fear of God.
	What other motive than real faith and a
firm conviction of the truth of this principle
could have induced them to accept and prac-
tice a doctrine so opposite to their traditions
and the rigid training received from their sec-
tarian parents and ancestors? Who would
wish to become objects of derision, to have
their friends and associates turn the cold shoul-
der, and be subjected to the sneers and scoffs of
persons prejudiced by the extravagant tales
spread by certain ones who, while professing
friendship and faith in the principle, were two-
faced and treacherous to their brethren and
sisters; the latter, though virtuous and modest
in their demeanor, and their motives as noble
and pure as were those of Ruth and Naomi,
had to silently bear the title of lewd women.
	We may read the history of martys and
mighty conquerors, and of many great and
good men and women, but that of the noble
women and fair daughters of Zion, whose faith
in the promises of Israel's God enabled them
to triumph over self and obey His higher law,
and assist His servants to establish it upon the
earth, though buried in the past, I feel sure
there was kept by the angels an account of
their works which will yet be found in the
records of Eternity, written in letters of Gold.
	The Prophet said that the practice of this
principle would be the hardest trial the Saints
would ever have to test their faith. It was
not his work, but that of the Almighty, and he
said it would cause the damnation of all who en-
tered into it with impure motives, and none
who acted unrighteously could stand, the trial
would be so great; and there would be but
few men who would be capable of being saviors
upon Mount Zion.
	He taught the principle to his wife, Emma,
who humbly received it and gave to him three
young women to wife, who had been living
with her in her family, and had been like
adopted daughters. Until she lost the spirit
and her heart became hardened, they lived
happily together. They respected and loved
her as though she had been their mother, and
might have remained with her afterwards had
they been willing to have severed the ties be-
tween themselves and the Prophet; but choos-
ing to remain true their covenants, which they
considered binding here and hereafter, they
preferred to leave the Mansion.
	Emma deceived her children and denied to
every one that the Prophet had ever received
a revelation on Celestial marriage, or had ever
practised it, although she had heard the reve-
lation and was an eye witness to the marriage
of the three wives above mentioned. Besides,
he told her of every one that had been sealed
to him.
	Some of those who apostatized from the
Church, and knew more than she did about
the practice of Polygamy, also denied it; but
there are too many of the Prophet's wives still
living in Utah—as well as hundreds of other
witnesses—who can testify to the hypocrisy of
those men who, like William Marks, aposta-
tized because they could not manage matters
pertaining to the Church as they desired, and
who afterwards volunteered their services to

[Column 3]

help Emma Smith, she having, according to
her own acknowledgment, founded the Joseph-
ite church to revenge herself upon Brigham
Young.
	How little the world who hate and persecute
the Latter-day Saints know of the impelling
motive which induced them to accept and carry
out the principles taught by Joseph Smith, the
great Prophet of the latter days.
	It seems a little strange, too, so greatly des-
pised and hated as "Mormonism" is, that many
of its principles, revealed through the illiterate
boy, Joseph Smith, and taught for fifty years
or more by the Church (doctrines for which
our people have been persecuted and driven,
and many besides the Prophet and Patriarch
slain for advocating) are now being proclaimed
by sectarian ministers, who are applauded for
thus advancing some new idea, never before
thought of. Such blindness is certainly deplor-
able.
	My father was often called a Prophet, and
years ago in Nauvoo I heard him predict that
it would yet become a law of this nation that
men should marry a plurality of wives.
	The Prophet Joseph was heard to say that
in consequence of wars and disasters, men
would become so scarce that when one was
seen it would be said of him, "There goes a
man."
	The following we read in Isaiah: "Thy men
shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the
war. And her gates shall lament and mourn:
and she being desolate, shall sit upon the
ground. And in that day seven women shall
take hold of one man saying: We will eat our
own bread and wear our own apparel, only let
us be called by thy name, to take away our
reproach."
	If "coming events cast their shadows before,"
we certainly have no cause to doubt the speedy
fulfilment of this prediction. The first great
commandment given by the Creator has nearly
become obsolete among professed Christians,
who set themselves up as our judges, and as-
sume to be followers of the meek and lowly
Jesus, but instead, have departed from His
precepts, choosing only such portions of the
Scriptures as happen to suit their own ideas,
and ignoring the rest; while the Latter-day
Saints, whom they call heretics, accept it en-
tirely, and believe it to be their duty to obey
every requirement of the Gospel held forth by
our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Instead
of spiritualizing it, we believe it means exactly
what it says in both the Old and the New Testa-
ments. As other sects have already followed
in the footsteps of the "Mormons" in certain
of their doctrines, we need not be surprised to
eventually hear of their advocating and legal-
izing Polygamy.
	Great exertions have been made by them to
enlighten the minds of the awfully ignorant
and depraved "Mormons," who have rightly
appreciated teh same and also realize how
much more interest they have taken in our be-
half since they found that instead of perish-
ing, as they had hoped we would, we were still
living and increasing in wealth, power and in-
fluence, away off here in the valleys of the
Rocky Mountains. They send their Bible
agents for the purpose, as we suppose, of con-
vincing us of our errors by the Scriptures, for
which we are thankful, as we are more than
anxious that the rising generation in Zion
should understand the Scriptures, as our doc-
trine is founded upon that sacred record. 
	To be continued.


DR. J. G. Holland, editor of Scribner's
Monthly Magazine, and author of "Bitter
Sweet," "Kathrina," and many other beautiful
and tender poems, died suddenly at his resi-
dence in New York City, on Thursday, October
l3, and was buried the following Sunday at
Springfield, Mass.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regualr advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY,	NOVEMBER 1, 1881.


[Column 1]

VISIT TO SANPETE.

	On Wednesday afternoon, September 14, in
company with Sister E. R. S. Smith, we left the
city, intending to make a tour of a part of San-
pete County. Arriving at Nephi, we were met
and warmly welcomed by Sister Amelia Golds-
brough, who accompanied us to the residence of
President Teasdale. After cordial greetings and
a delicious supper, we repaired to the meeting
house, where it was expected Sister Eliza and
her traveling companion would speak to the peo-
ple. The house was filled about equally with
ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Mary Pitchforth
presided. The meeting was an interesting one,
Sister Eliza occupying a considerable portion of
the time.
	The next morning we left Nephi with Mrs.
Goldsbrough added to our party; our route lay
through Salt Creek Canon. It was a pleasant
season of the year, and the varieties of shrub-
bery, the bright and gorgeous coloring of the
luxuriant foliage, made a charming picture 'mid
the magnificence of the mountain scenery. A
passionate admirer of nature in its wild and
rugged beauty could not but be delighted with
the sublimity and grandeur of these towering
mountains, in their most brilliant and gayest
costumes. It seemed as if they all wore their
holiday attire, and it became them well, very
well indeed, for the sides of the gray, rocky, rug-
ged mountains were profusely bedecked with
the brightest scarlet and yellow.
	At Fountain Green we met our dear and hon-
ored friend, Mrs. M. A. Hyde, who had brought
her own carriage to meet us, and her sister, Mrs. 
E. Bentley, who was on her way to St. George.
We took dinner at the Bishop's, whose hospital-
ity is well known to travelers, and about one
o'clock proceeded towards Moroni, reaching there
sometime before nightfall. Bishop Irons and
his good wife, D[-]borah, were expecting us and
gave us good cheer.
	The next morning early, teams began to come
in from other settlements to attend the Sisters'
Stake Conference, President Petersen and many
others from different settlements. Conference
commenced at ten a. m., Mrs. M. A. Hyde pre-
siding. Reports were read from nearly every
settlement in Sanpete Stake, and many inter-
esting speeches were made during the day. Af-
ter the afternoon session adjourned there was a
Conference of the Primary Associations, Mrs. 
Deborah Irons presiding, and in the evening a
meeting for the young people, Mrs, Larson pre-
siding; all were well attended.
	Saturday morning we went on to Fairview,
where there was a meeting of the P. A. in the
afternoon, Levee T. Terry presiding.
	Sunday morning a large number of wagons
and carriages wended their way towards Indian-
ola. Bishop Spencer, Joseph, Nephi and others
were expeccting our arrival, and met the entire
party with a hearty welcome. There were two
meetings there, and the speeches all had to be

[Column 2]

interpreted, which occupied a little more time.
Sister Mary, a Lamanite woman, Counselor to
the President of the Relief Society, delivered an
eloquent address in a manner which would have
reflected credit upon an educated white woman.
In the afternoon Sister Eliza effected an organ-
ization of the children, which included ten little
Lamanites—the first instance of this kind on
record. She also presented each of them with
one of her Primary Hymn Books. The Indians
manifested the greatest interest in all the pro-
ceedings, and one could not help feeling that the
prophecies concerning this down-trodded race
 were about to be fulfilled.
	Leaving Indanola directly after the close of
the meeting, we returned to Fairview, where
another meeting was held in the evening, the
meeting house crowded to its utmost capacity.
	Monday morning drove to Mt. Pleasant; at
Bro. Peel's we were bounteously entertained.
Meeting commenced at two p. m., Mrs. M. F.
C. Morrison presiding. After this meeting the
two Primary Associations came together at five
o'clock, and it was a very interesting time.
	Tuesday morning we repaired to Spring City,
the home of Sister Hyde. The morning meet-
ing was for the Primary Association, Mrs. Sarah
Ellis presiding. It was during intermission we
received the news of the death of President Gar-
field, which, although judging from the later
telegrams we half expected, yet seemed appall-
ing.
	In the afternoon the Relief Society convened,
Mrs. Mary Frantzen presiding, and in the eve-
ning a meeting of the young people, a crowded
house, Annie Eustaceson presiding. Wednes-
day we went over to Ephraim, where we found
flags at half mast, draped with black, presenting
a sad appearance.
	At Prest. Peterson's we met quite a number
of people, and an elaborate dinner had been pre-
pared, to which all our party and the assembled
guests did ample justice. At two o'clock re-
paired to the meeting house. It was a meeting
of the Relief Society, Mrs. Sarah Peterson pre-
siding, but the brethren attended as well as the
sisters, and seemed as much interested. it was
the harvest time, too, but notwithstanding all
the meetings were well filled.
	At five o'clock the two Primaries met in joint
meeting, and there were a good number of exer-
cises, songs, recitations, dialogues, etc., as there
were, indeed, in all the Associations in the
county. A very great improvement has been
made among the children since these organiza-
tions have been instituted, and the Saints can-
not be too grateful to Sister Eliza for the untiring
interest she has manifested in this department
of her labor in Zion, and truly she has joy in her
labors, in seeing the good results that have al-
ready accrued. What will be after they are
furthur initiated in the work, remains to be
known in the future.
	Thursday morning, accompanied by Prest.
Peterson and several other carriages well loaded
with people, our party went on to Manti; passed
the Temple on our way, which is towering up to
a stupendous height, and went direct to the meet-
ing house, which was already filled with breth-
ren and sisters. Mrs. Rebecca Wareham pre-
sided. In the afternoon the two Primaries held
joint meeting, Mrs. Jane Gasto presiding, Miss
Marian Tennant having charge of the exercises,
which were all well rendered. While in Manti
we visited the Temple, Bro. Fulsom explaining
everything, Sisters Eliza, Goldsbrough, Hyde
Peterson and all going to the very highest point
we could possibly reach. It will be a magnifi-
cent structure, the terraces giving it a much
grander and loftier appearance than if it was
not situated upon an eminence. It is in reality
built into the mountain, and fulfils the Scrip

[Column 3]

ture—the House of the Lord shall be built in
the tops of the mountains.
	At Manti, and also in other places, we heard
of the woollen factory the sisters anticipate
building in that County. It is expected the
sisters of the Relief Society will take shares of
five dollars each, sufficient to amount to ten
thousand dollars, by the next Quarterly Confer-
ence in December. This is quite an undertak-
ing; but really the sisters in Sanpete seem equal
to almost anything, and no doubt they will
build the factory, that is, Sister Eliza says "they
will build it as Solomon did the Temple." At
Brother Wareham's our party enjoyed the time
very much in social conversation, and on Friday
morning reluctantly said goodbye to these dear
friends in Manti, and to Sister Hyde, who had
shown us so much kind attention all the way,
and turned our faces homeward. There was
only on meeting to attend on our way home,
and that was at Fountain Green with the Pri-
mary Association. The children there mani-
fested about the same improvement as in other
places, and altogether one cannot help feeling
that the children of the Saints are growing in
the knowledge of the truth.
	At Nephi we had to part with Sister Golds-
brough, who had been with us constantly, and
to whom we grew more and more attached every
day.
	We arrived at home on the 25th, safe and well,
delighted with our journey. Sister Eliza had
improved in health from the time of leaving
home, and although she had spoken to large au-
diences about twenty times during her absence,
returned refreshed and invigorated.

CONFERENCE AT MORGAN

	SISTERS Eliza R. S. Smith and Mary A.
Freeze, of this city, went by train to Morgan
Friday morning, Oct. 21, to attend the Sisters'
Stake Conference of Morgan Co. The Relief
Society Conference was held on Saturday morn-
ing and afternoon sessions, Mrs. Lydia Rich
presiding. Prest. W. G. Smith was present, and
gave the sisters good advice and encouragement.
The reports were satisfactory, and tended to
stimulate to greater endeavors in future. Sister
Eliza and Sister Freeze addressed the people on
subjects pertaining to the work of the Relief
Society, spiritual, mental and benevolent.
	On Sunday morning the Conference of Y. L.
M. I. A. convened, Mrs. Jane Toomar presiding.
The young ladies reported verbally their respec-
tive Associations in a most dignified and credit-
able manner, stating that the Associations were
in good working order. Sister E. R. S. Smith,
Sister Freeze and Prest. Smith each addressed
the young ladies upon such subjects as were cal-
culated to inspire them with courage and a de-
sire to persevere in the work of mutual improve-
ment.
	In the afternoon Sisters Smith and Freeze at-
tended the meeting, and after the Sacrament
had been administered, by request of Prest.
Smith these sisters addressed the congregation.
	On Monday, at two p.m., a Conference of the
Primary Associations of Morgan and the adja-
cent settlements was held, Mrs. Harriet Welsh
presiding. Sister Eliza informs us it was a most
interesting time. The children manifested great
improvement and delighted the sisters greatly
with their intelligent rendering of exercises.
Sister Eliza asked the children all the questions
contained in one of the chapters of the new
book just out, "Bible Questions and Answers."
They were greatly entertained by it, and their
little faces brightened up and their eyes sparkled
with the pleasant pastime. The ladies returned
Tuesday morning, safe and well.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 85


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE publish in this issue the request to Secre-
taries in regard to sending in reports in time for
the Stake Secretary to prepare her report for the
Secretary of the Central Board, and hope this
will be sufficiently explicit to be understood by
all. Please read it carefully, and then act ac-
cordingly.
	HOME INDUSTRY.—Among the skillful exhibi-
tions of the Ladies' Department, one could but
admire a selection of fancy hair work. People
always surrounded the tasteful collection of
Brother Alfred Andre, a Frenchman, recently
from Paris, who had exhibited about 120 differ-
ent samples of this kind of work, which seemed
to be of great interest to the numerous visitors
of the Fair. Several young ladies had exhibited
some very pretty fancy hair work, but Brother
Andre's was something quite new, and deserved
the first prize, Diploma, which has been awarded
him.
	Here is: the beginning of a more elaborate
home industry in this direction. Mothers hav-
ing buried children may perhaps be gratified to
have the darling's hair as ear-rings, bracelets,
breastpins, watch-guards, necklaces, or preserve
the precious locks in hair pictures, or as memo-
rials, etc.
	Ladies wishing to acquire a knowledge of this
work can obtain the requisite information to en-
able them to make the work themselves, or can
have anything in this line manufactured, by
applying to Prof. A. Andre, Main Street, No. 66,
Salt Lake City.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Wellsville, Cache Co, Utah, January
14, 1881, Mrs. Christina Cooper. It is the re-
quest of the relatives and friends of our beloved
and departed sister, and it is our desire, that her
name be recorded in the WONAN'S EXPONENT.
	She was born in Berkshire, England, and em-
braced the Gospel in her native country. After
emigrating to Utah she settled in Wellsville,
and became a member of the Wellsville Relief
Society. She subsequently filled the office of
teacher in the Society, which she honorably held
during the remainder of her life. She was a
faithful Latter-day Saint, and died in hopes of a
glorious resurrection. Sister Cooper was much
beloved by all who knew her. She is an heir of
glory and exaltation; her good deeds will live,
though she has passed away from our sight.
Well may it be said of her, "Blessed are the
dead who die in the Lord."
						SUSANNAH LLOYD.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT. 

AT THE OCTOBER CONFERENCE. 

	President George Q. Cannon read a statistical
and financial report of the Relief societies in
the various Stakes.
							Bushels.
				Cash. Property. Wheat.
Bear Lake		$270 96
Beaver			37 40	$99 20	24
Box Elder		716 75	611 03	1,483
Juab						3,777 45	167
Kanab			404 40			74
Davis			192 79	911 52	779
Davis			(Beans, 17 pounds.)
Millard			181 50	2,573 76	1,167
Panguitch		270 75	868 44	493
Parowan			 5 10	249 01	34
Salt Lake			156 91	1,036 93	2,043
Sanpete			173 01	12,652 30	2,819
St. George		226 04	5,096 49	3,188
Wasatch			11 53	10 53	505
Weber			336 20	1,557 96	2,031
Sevier			42 12	1,230 10	1,000


Eastern Arizona			146 42
San Juan					10 25
Cache			247 42	3,911 -	2,505
Total		 $3,273 18	$36,331 $2	19,168
No reports from Morgan, Summit, Tooele and Utah Stakes.
Total No. of teachers	.	.	.	.	2,073
   "	   "	 members	.	.	.	.	9,405
 "	 "	 officers and members	.	.	12,444
No. of meetings held	.	.	.	.	2,596
Average attendance	.	.	.	.	.	4,195
No. of Exponent taken	.	.	.	.	754
Report accepted.
 A letter from St. George informs us that the
account of wheat stored there is incorrect. Other
reports, from Tooele and Morgan counties, ar-
rived too late, and also a corrected report of fif-
teen branches of Salt Lake Stake.
Y. L. M. I. A.
 President George Q. Cannon read a report from
the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations, which, condensed, was as follows: Num-
ber of Assocations, 193; number reported, 138;
officers and members, 7,102; meetings held, 5,684;
meetings with Young Men's Mutual Improve-
ment Assocations, 287; chapters of the bible
read, 47,053; Book of Mormon, 14,790; other
Church works, 9,515; books in libraries, 941;
cash and other property held, $111,340; wheat
on hand, 1,071 bushels. There were no reports
from Beaver, Cache and Manti Stakes.


ATTENTION, SECRETARIES!

	The Secretaries of Relief Societies in Salt
Lake Stake are urgently requested to send in
their semi-annual reports by the 5th of March,
as it is impossible for the Stake Secretary to
makes a correct report unless she receives the
report from each Society in due time.
				M. ISABELLA HORNE, Prest.
				ELIZABETH HOWARD, Sec'y


[Column 1]
AN OPEN LETTER.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Friend—Had I had the pleasure of a
visit from you, I should not have to explain
"the wherefor and why" that my little article,
"The City of the Saints," remains unfinished
in the EXPONENT; for verily 'tis a favorite
subject with me, and shall yet receive a finale,
D. V. I never ask pardon of my friends for
being somewhat egotistical, as it always appears
to cast a doubt upon their affection for me;
judging them from myself, I come to this con-
clusion: my friends' joys and sorrows, health
and sickness, and, indeed, all their affairs I am
interested in, and when they speak of them-
selves my heart, brain, eyes and ears compose
a loving audience, and I feel they pay me a
compliment.
	After this prelude I will say, for the last
three months I have experienced an entire
prostration, mentally and physically, of vital
strength, and nothing but the Spirit of God
and my own will kept me from giving up much
that I felt was my imperative duty to do; so I
have been nursing myself, waiting and hoping.
I have let my mind, my heart and my brain
"lay fallow," as the wise husbandman does oc-
casionally portions of his land that calls for
such repose; I have allowed neither the plow,
nor the harrow, nor the roll to pass over them,
nor seed to be thrown into them; they have
been open to the pure air of heaven, its rain,
and dew, and sunshine; the thunder and the
lightning have rolled over them, and made the
atmosphere pure and healthy. In this state
they have lain in a glorious inertia! Will
they again rise up invigorated with health,
and strength, and vigor, and bring forth fruit?

[Column 2]
I feel very passive about it; I look at my pen
and soliloquise: Thou dear little siren, how
thou hast blest me! e'en from my childhood's
days thy little plume has wafted me in golden
visions, been the portrayer of my soul, in which
I have seen myself as in a mirror! By thine
aid I have held sweet communion with the
pure and good, the intelligent, the kind, the
loving, the true and faithful, even unto death!
As I write, the desire comes back to
wield again this little weapon, which, in the
hands of the magnates of the ages, has been,
and is, and will be far mightier than the sword!
	How this little instrument has blest me! and
many tell me I have blest them by it. And
then I yearn to still have the power to bless
myself in blessing others. These thoughts
cause my eyes to naturally turn upward, and
their silent language to the Great Physician is—
touch my heart and brain with a coal from off
thine eternal altar, where burns the fire of
Eternal Love! Arouse the dormant spirit; as a
harp is struck by the hand of the master and
responds to his touch, give me power to strike
chords that shall vibrate in the hearts of all
my readers. I desire not that ephemeral thing
called fame, I was not organized for it; I desire
but to live in the hearts of my brethren and
sisters in time and all eternity.
	Your last issue of the EXPONENT pleased
me much. The article on "good reading"
should be reduced to practice by all. "Simple
Simon" is surely a wise man! How truthful
his words and comprehension of matters that
have come under the ban of prohibition, sim-
ply because the subject has not been investi-
gated with an unprejudiced mind. Surely we,
as Saints that have suffered, and daily suffer
from this sort of judgement, and verdict without
the Court, should suspend our judgment until
we can say positively, this is good, and that is
evil. But surely the names alone of Scott,
Bulwer, Dickens (whose weird and pathetic
pictures of the poor of London called forth an
Act of Parliament for ameliorating their con-
dition), George Elliot, Elizabeth Browning,
and a host of others, will establish the fact,
that a community will be enlightened and
benefitted by the perusal of such works.—But
I am writing a letter, not an article. I see
you have two new contributors— that is good;
tell them to ever take Excelsior for their motto.
	My best wishes are for you and our unique
little paper; may we soon see an enlarged edi-
tion, which many are looking for and may I
be enabled to cast my mite into the treasury of
mental wealth of the EXPONENT, is the desire
of your correspondent,
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 23, 1881.


LETTER FROM LULA.

SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 20,1881.

DEAR AUNT EM:—
	I want to give you a brief account of a
short but very interesting visit which I lately
made to Spanish Fork, in company with my
husband's mother, Mrs. Sarah G. Richards.
It was known that we contemplated visiting
that place, to see our dear old friend, Sister
Gwynn Morgan Lewis, now in her eighty-third
year; we were therefore solicited to be there
on Monday, October 17, and attend a joint
annual meeting of the Relief Society and Pri-
mary Association. We were pleased to com-
ply, and accordingly took the two o'clock
Southern train Sunday afternoon. The little
three and a half hour ride was a very enjoy-
able one to me. Passing the "Point of the
Mountain, and looking westward at the ponds
and springs, and what I could see of Porter
Rockwell's old place, many recollections and
reflections passed through my mind.


[Column 1]
	I remembered of riding over those grounds
more than twenty-three years ago. It was
Sunday then, it was Sunday now; but it was
morning and Springtime then, now it was after-
noon and Autumn; I was then a child, who
am now nearing middle age; I rode with my
mother that day, it was my husband's mother
by whose side I now sat; "meat horses," (as our
little boys have it) carried us forward then,
now we were drawn by the power, the wonder-
ful power of steam. That old place had been
my home for two years, when the call of 1858
for everybody to move south, caused my fa-
ther to vacate the premises. Then it was that
Sunday morning, April 5, my brother-in-law
took my mother and her two youngest children
then living, myself and little brother, to his
home in Provo City.
	How well I remember my childish thoughts
and feelings that Sunday morning. I was nine
years old—quite old enough to have distinct
ideas of many things. I thought of my ram-
blings about over those hills and rocks, and
through the sagebrush with my brothers and
sisters, and wondered if we should never come
back to walk there any more. And a still
more serious feeling was also present with me—
my baby brother was sleeping there; at least,
the lovely little form which they had boxed up
and buried in such a deep, deep place in the
ground! We were going to leave that little
grave by the house all alone! Would the
good angels be sure to remember and see that
no harm should come to it? What was death?
Should I like to die and leave my dear, loving
parents and friends? No! I remember of
thinking that I should not like to die, even for
the sake of seeing my two baby brothers, of
both of whom I thought with the tenderest
love and solicitation.
	All these memories, and many more, passed
vividly through my mind the other day, while
we were half circling around the old place I
have mentioned. Then followed a long train
of thoughts upon the resurrection and kindred
topics.
	Brother and Sister Cornaby, whose acquain-
tance we happily formed during the late Gen-
eral Conference, gave us so warm and cheer-
ing a welcome to their home in Spanish Fork,
that if the latter portion of our journey had
seemed somewhat chilly, all its unpleasantness
was soon forgotten.
	Being quite fatigued, mother remained with
Sister Cornaby that night, and, in fact, during
most of the time of our stay in the settlement.
But after supper, kindly conducted by Brother
Cornaby, I went to find the special object of
our visit, "Sister Morgan." Here I found an-
other hearty welcome awaited me, not only
from the dear old lady herself, but also from
her family connections. Brother and Sister
Lewis, and later several of their sons and
daughters, all of whom seem to be happily
married and engaged in the laudable enter-
prise of raising fine Latter-day Saint families.
	The next morning Sister Morgan went with
me to see mother, and we spent a very pleasant
forenoon with Sister Cornaby. Of this estim-
able lady and her husband I will say, they
need but to be known to be appreciated by
those who can appreciate true worth of char-
acter.
	After dinner, Sister Mary Ann M'Lean
came to escort us to the meeting house, where
the joint meeting was to commence at two
o'clock p. m. This dear young woman seems
to have a full share of public responsibilities
apportioned to her, she being Secretary of the
Relief Society, of which Sister Mary Ferguson
is President, Counselor to Sister Morrison, who
presides over the organization of young ladies,
and President of the Primary Association.
She also teaches their district school. All
these positions I believe she fills with great
satisfaction to her friends and co-workers, if
not always to herself.

[Column 2]
	At the meeting house we greeted and were
greeted in turn by many friends, including
"Ma Smoot" and Sister John, from Provo.
These sisters, holding the presidency of the
Stake organization of the Relief Society, gave
much good instruction to their sisters in Span-
ish Fork. Sister Thurber, from the South,
was also present, and gave a very interesting
address. Sister Rhoda Snell, the veteran silk
raiser of Spanish Fork, and President of the
Silk Association in that place, made an excel-
lent speech in favor of home manufacture. I
was most interested with the children, and
talked to them and of them most; not only be-
cause I was requested to do so, but because the
spirit so directed me.
	Mother felt too feeble to address the con-
gregation, but before meeting opened, I
heard her relate a circumstance, which
seemed to me so beautiful, in connection with
the children's meetings, that I thought it wor-
thy of being remembered and recorded.
	She said that more than thirty years ago
the children of the Latter-day Saints used
to have their little meetings, and sing and
pray and bear testimony, and sometimes they
would give blessings and speak in tongues and
prophesy. She was at one of these meetings
with her little son, then a baby. Sister Ellen
Rockwood conducted the meeting and inter-
preted for those children who spoke in tongues.
President Joseph Young, who presided so long
over the Seventies, was there, and the chil-
dren placed their hands upon his head and
blest him, and he wept for joy. They also
blest the babe which mother had taken to their
meeting, and said he should become a man of
great faith and wisdom in Israel, and should
go to his mother's country and there proclaim
the glad tidings of the Gospel of salvation;
which has been literally fulfilled.
	After meeting, all the visitors, and quite a
number besides, were invited to Sister Fergu-
son's, where we partook of an excellent supper.
	The people of Spanish Fork live well, and
well they may. Most bountiful harvests of
grain, fruit and honey have this year crowned
their labors. More than three thousand dol-
lars' worth of dried fruit, we were informed,
has been purchased of individuals by their co-
operative store.
	Another meeting was held in the evening,
under the auspices of the Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association, to which all,
young and old were invited. In this meeting
I think all enjoyed the Spirit of the Lord, and
rejoiced in the determination to serve Him
henceforth with all diligence. The testimonies,
the exhortations and the instructions given all
tended to show that the speakers felt well in
their religion, and were calculated to make
their hearers feel the same.
	Mother and I returned home by the half
past six train Tuesday morning, thankful for
the many blessings which had attended us, and
for the many kind evidences that our visit to
Spanish Fork had not been a fruitless mission.


86	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE PRIMARY FAIR AT PROVO.

	The Children's Fair of Provo took place
October 15, under the management of Presi-
dent Zina Y. Williams, in the Third Ward
Assembly Rooms. At the commencement hour
the Hall was filled with visitors, and the atten-
dance increased largely during the day.
	Bishop J. E. Booth, delivered a brief
and pleasing address, referring in highly eulo-
gistic terms to the labors of the children. The
speaker said that had the various exhibits been
produced by adults, still they would be credit-
able; they show indeed a bright prospect for
home industry when those children come to
riper years.
	Under the Superintendent's direction, the
exhibition was then declared formally opened.


A specification of any of the varied and in-
deed beautiful exhibits would be an injustice
to some, and hence a very brief outline sketch
must suffice. Four Wards occupied a corner
each, and the Fifth Ward the middle of the
room. Ropes were placed around the room,
from which hung a variety of quilts, of which
we counted upwards of twenty, tidies in as
great a number, and netted, knit and embroid-
ered work, besides a grand display of dress ar-
ticles. Upwards of twenty yards of carpet;
too, were on exhibition, the rags for which
were prepared by boys. Each ward's display
of fancy work consisted of various wax and
woollen flowers and fruit, in globes and on vel-
vet background. Eleven pounds of cocoons,
raised by a girl ten years old, called forth
many eulogies, as, indeed, did the various
wreaths, baskets and seed frames. Specimens
of carving from wood, in form of brackets,
fence models, wagons, etc., also oil paintings,
bottles of homemade wine, a pair of riveted
halters and a variety of garden vegetables are
among the boys' production. The girls' tables
showed an elegant and tempting spread of
eatables, chiefly in the form of pastry and pre-
serves.
	An intermission was announced from 12 m.
to 1 p. m., when visitors were again allowed
to come in and witness what the children had
done. At two o'clock they were called to or-
der by Prest. Williams, and the children sang,
"In our lovely Deseret." One from each ward
then favored the company with a song or reci-
tation.
	Bishop Tanner then made a few pleasing re-
marks, saying he felt gratified to see what had
been done toward improving the minds and
developing the energies of the young, and
wished them to continue to advance in the
good work. Closed by asking God to bless
the children of the Latter-day Saints.
	President Smoot considered the work done
highly commendable, and desired the young to
become acquainted with the arts and sciences
as well as their religion, as that would bring
this kingdom in advance of all others in all
things. He encouraged the officers to continue
in patient labor, and closed by asking the
blessings of God to rest upon all who were in-
terested in the welfare of the children of Zion.
	The Fair continued until nine o'clock in the
evening, to accommodate those who could not
come during the day. The evening was also
interspersed with songs and recitation.
				SARAH E. CLUFF,
	Stake Secretary Utah Primary Association.


GOSHEN PRIMARY FAIR.

	The Primary Association of Goshen held
their Fair on the 24th of September last. We
were visited by Sisters Zina Y. Williams,
President of P. A. Utah Stake, and Mary Jane
John, her Counselor, who gave us much good
instruction and advice in relation to our duties,
as the children of the parents who had sacri-
ficed so much for the upbuilding of the king-
dom of God upon the earth. They gave us
excellent advice, by precept and example, in
relation to many duties that devolve upon us.
The time was well and profitably spent, and it
was a never-to-be-forgotten feast for both old
and young.	
	The little ones displayed untiring zeal in
their endeavors to accomplish what they had
undertaken for the occasion. There was home-
made bread, cake and popcorn, tidies, mottoes,
hanging-baskets, socks, aprons, rakes, hayrack,
cradle quilts, dolls dressed by hand, and every-
thing done by the hands of the little ones them-
selves. There was a little churn made for the
occasion, to be worked by horse, steam or water
power, patent to be applied for. Brother Ed-
wards had several instruments on exhibition,
and explained in a brief and lucid manner


their uses in steering ships across the trackless
deep. We had also a drawing of the St.
George Temple, by Miss Julia Jasperson, also
a collection, of numerous insects by a little
naturalist. Among other things on exhibition
were lamp mats, lamp covers, wax flowers,
children's clothes of different kinds, adobies,
and other things, too numerous to mention. A
few verses written for the occasion were well
rendered by Miss Mary E. Morgan. The little
ones also recited and sung, their fresh young
voices rich and clear, making sweet melody,
and altogether we spent a very enjoyable day,
the Spirit of the Lord enlivening everything
around us.
			SARAH ROBERTS. PRES'T.
			CHRISTINA HIGGINSON, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R.S., Y.L.M.I.A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.
			--
		UTAH STAKE.
			---

	Minutes of the Twelfth Quarterly Confer-
ence of the Relief Societies of Utah County,
held August 25, 1881. Present on the stand,
Prest. Margaret T. Smoot, Coun. Mary John,
Secretary, Corresponding Secretary, etc.; breth-
ren of the priesthood, Bishops Johnson, Tan-
ner and Madsen.
	Meeting opened by the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, after which Sister M. T.
Smoot made a few remarks, and following
Sister Snow Smith's advice, in having the sis-
ters speak first, and the brethren, being the
stronger, to follow, so that it we say anything
that needs correcting it can be corrected. Said
she felt thankful that our lives were spared to
meet together again, while many had been
called to pass behind the vail. Said, I feel
to look up to the Priesthood, but I also love to
hear the sisters speak. In my remarks I have
ever enjoined it upon the sisters to be obedient
to the Priesthood, so they will never conflict.
We have a great work before us; it is continu-
ous, it will never lessen. I do not feel to be
tedious, and do not wish to take up the time.
There are many called, but few  chosen; let us
seek to be among the chosen ones. Let us
work out our salvation, even unto a fullness of
glory, is my prayer.
	Sister Mary John followed with a few ap-
propriate remarks, after which Bishop Tanner
addressed the Conference, saying: I am pleased
in hearing the reports of the societies; the la-
bors that we are engaged in, with the desire to
build up Zion, will tend to give us our reward,
and God will sustain us, and without Him we
can do nothing. Let our light so shine that
all can see it. Let us be a blessing to the poor
and cheer those that are cast down. Jesus
says love your neighbor as yourself. When we
go to help the sick let us go in the name of
Israel's God; and then we will prosper.
	Bishop Madsen said: I have watched with 
interest these societies ever since I became ac-
quainted with them; even the name of Relief
Society is sweet. In times of sickness and dis-
tress can you find a sweeter word than relief?
Can anything be sweeter to the sisters in times
of sickness and trouble than to have sisters
come in to see them, bringing with them the
Spirit of God? and they will be sure to com-
fort and relieve. We should at all times culti-
vate the principles of love and union, and then
you would be always welcome, and the more
strength you will have. I desire to live my
religion, do my duty and be humble before
God, and thus will we be saved.
	Bishop Johnson said: It is through the good-
ness of God that we are enabled to meet to-
gether again. I endorse all that has been
said. Let us attend to our duties and put our
trust in God instead of the doctors and then
the Lord will remove the sickness from our
midst, and not before.
	It was moved that we adjourn until 1:30
p.m. Benediction by Bishop Tanner.
	Afternoon session convened at the time ap-
pointed, most of the time being taken up by
the Presidents with verbal reports of their so-
cieties, each testifying to the faithfulness of
the faithful few.
	Ma Smoot, as she is affectionately designated,
said the sisters have a good excuse for not be
ing at  meeting at this busy season of the year.
I am pleased with o r reports; I would like to
praise the sisters for their good works, for I 
like to be praised sometimes when I do any-
thing that deserves praise. Let us improve
our time, that we may not be too late to enter
the kingdom of God.
	Our aged sister, Mother Duke, made a few
remarks, saying: While listening to Sister
Smoot I have had peculiar feelings. I am
getting along towards the grave; many have
already gone before, some have gone since our
last Conference. Where are their spirits?
They are mingling with those behind the vail;
and we too will soon be there. The founders
of this latter-day work are there; we have as-
sociated with them, they have traversed this
earth without purse or scrip, sometimes with-
out food, to bear their testimony to this gen-
eration; we are their sisters that associated
with them in the eternal worlds, and we shall
meet with them again. I am glad to mingle
my voice with you in telling of the goodness
of God, that the Spirit may flow from one to
another. Your faces shine; the outside world
does not know what we know. We are chil-
dren of the Most High God, and Father takes
care of us.
	Sister L. W. Kimball spoke in the interest
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT; also notified
those present that there were a few more of
those homemade silk handkerchiefs for sale.
Exhorted the sisters to pray for Sister Zina D.
Young and those with her, and added, "May
life, health and peace be your portion, is my
prayer."
	Ma Smoot said: While listening to my sisters
speaking of the goodness of God, and speak-
ing of the laborers, I think with Sister Eliza
R. that the Teachers have the greatest bur-
dens on their shoulders; we often ask for the
prayers of our sisters; if we as societies, or
wards, would make it a matter of prayer for
any particular thing we want, the Lord would
hear our prayers, for He has said where two or
three meet together in my name, there will I
be also. I see many faces here to-day that are
aged, and I feel tender towards them, for I am
one of them myself. Let us pray for one an-
other that we may continue faithful. Amen.
	It was moved that Conference be adjourned
for three months. Benediction by Bishop
Johnson.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
HOW TO OBTAIN IT.

	Not a very intelligent caption I will allow;
and I will also admit that the rhetorical rule,
requiring the first sentence of an article to
foreshadow that which is to follow has not
been adhered to. However insignificant it
may appear, there were reasons both for the
unintelligent caption and for the equally mys-
terious initiatory sentence. Had it been headed
"Influence," which would have conveyed an
idea of the burden of the article, it would have
proved uninviting, and few would have read
even this far; while, had the first sentence been
consistent with the rhetorical rule above re-
ferred to, those who perused that far would
have arrived at the conclusion that it was the
same old thing they had read a hundred times,
and which had been threadbare from the first.

[Column 2]
While it is not my intention to moralize in
this regard, it will not be amiss if a hint
known well among the Bohemian fraternity,
is dropped to literary tyros: Hide, as long
as you can—and still retain the attention of
your readers—that which you intend to say.
The more mystery you infuse into your pro-
ductions, of whatever nature, the better the
great and intelligent public will like them. If
there are any who dispute this assertion, I have
but to refer them, for irrefutable proof, to
the thousand and one dodges resorted to by
the proprietors of quack medicines to secure
public attention. A reader may suddenly be-
come interested in the description of a new
disease, and find that it can be cured by Si-
mon's patent swill; he will see that a buried
city has been unearthed. and after reading a
few lines, finds that the discovery of this lost
city is like the discovery of great cure for all
evils, etc. The more mystery you have, the
better your readers will like it. It is just as
well also to remind readers, that they often
miss many a jewel thought because the writer
has been unfortunate enough to clothe it with
a homely or threadbare heading. Readers
should recollect that, as many a true and noble
heart beats beneath a homespun coat, so many
a bright and valuable idea may plod through
the world under an old and despised title. I'm
afraid my preface will be longer than my book,
but here's for it.
	Peculiar people have peculiar notions about
influence, and some people who are not peculiar
also have peculiar ideas about it. Nothing
particularly original is claimed for the idea,
but I hold that influence and confidence are so
closely allied that it will take a remarkably
discriminating mind to separate them; at least
they are that closely allied for the purposes of
this article. It is a popular idea that money
will bring influence, and it is true; that power
will secure influence, which is also true; but it
is an ephemeral influence, which reflects no
credit on those exercising it. Influence, how-
ever, will win wealth and power; in fact, it is a
power, as potent as any that can be wielded.
	In life the first thing to be striven to main-
tain—it applies to children, to boys and girls,
to men and to women, to all with the same
force—is honesty and uprightness in all things.
These should be maintained for themselves
alone; for, like virtue, they are their own re-
ward. Ambition is an element in every life—
that is, every life not blighted too early by af-
fliction, or by ignorance; and the gratification
of ambition is the exercise of influence—for
influence is a mighty power. To obtain this
influence different methods are devised by dif-
ferent minds; but I do not care how well laid
the plans may be, upon what logical deductions
they may be based, nor how carefully and fully
they may be carried out, unless they are
founded upon upright principles, they will fail.
They may triumph for a time, but the founda-
tion is of sand, and when the waves run high
the sand melts away in tho ocean, and the
super-structure falls a ruined mass,a monument,
while the the memory of it lasts, to the folly
of the designer.
	It is a common assumption that popularity
is influence; no greater fallacy can be enter-
tained. Popularity is of momentary develop-
ment—borne for one brief moment in the
wind of public opinion, and then lost to all
eternity; while influence, like confidence, is a
plant of slow growth. Years are required for
its roots to take a firm hold, but when once it
has become congenial to the soil, the mightiest
hurricanes of envy, and malice, and hatred,
blow round it in vain. It is a rock of ada-
mant, a loadstone, attracting the honest and
the true. Nothing is so thoroughly disgusting
as the desire manifested on all sides, by men
and by women, for public notoriety, sought for
under the impression that it is popularity. It


is a mistaken idea. Influence, like true love,
comes unasked, and following in its wake may
be found all that is so vainly sought and so ar-
dently desired, by those who resort to petty
expedients and trifling devces for a little eclat.
	The man of influence is one whose whole life
supports him in all he says and all he does. If
he says he will do a thing, the history of that
man's life passes through the minds of his
hearers, and every former act comes to the
front, and declares in words of gold, that he
will do what he says. He has proven himself
to be a man of truth and of honesty, and all
who know him know that his word is as good
as his life. He has won their confidence. I
do not care how ignorant that man is; I do not
care how bad may be the people among whom
he lives, that man must have influence. It is
as sure to follow an upright course, as disease
is to follow a violation of the laws of nature;
and I do not care how polished a man may
be, how intelligent, how educated, how elo-
quent, if he is not honest, if he is not truthful,
he can wield no personal influence. He may
talk with the tongue of an angel, he may tell
the truths of a God--and people will believe
them because they are true--but they come
with no force from the lips of the liar, or the
politician, or the hypocrite. While the man
of honesty tells his simple truths, and they are
treasured, because his hearers know he would
not tell them what he does, unless he firmly
believed what he says.
	Honesty and truth, morality and the virtues
are the foundation for influence, and unless
you observe these cardinal principles, you may
as well strive to get the moon as to obtain a 
permanent influence.
	Do not be misled. You must be good to be
influential; and after a few years of honesty
and truthfulness, you will find your power in-
crease as you are intelligent; and the longer
you follow such a course greater will become
your power, for every act of your lives will
back you up in what you say. That is the way,
and the only way to obtain influence.
					SIMPLE SIMON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISCELLANEOUS.

	THE Iowa Woman Suffrage Association will
hold its tenth annual convention, in Marshall-
town, Nov. 10 and 11, 1881.

	ANNA E. Dickenson is to begin her threatri-
cal tour on the 2d of January, as Hamlet, fol-
lowing that with Claude Melnotte and Mac-
beth.

	MRS. Zina D. Young and Dr. Ellen B. Fer-
guson were just leaving Albany to attend the
congress at Buffalo at date of last letters re-
ceived from them.

	THE Woman Suffrage Society of Polk
County celebrated its eleventh anniversary
by a tea party on the 25th ult. in Des Moines,
at the residence of Mrs. M. J. Coggeshall.

	SUPPOSING all the great points of Atheism
were formed into a kind of creed, I would fain
ask whether it would not require an infinitely
greater measure of faith than any set of arti-
cles which they so violently oppose.—Addison.

	THE ladies are to the fore in the Higher Lo-
cal Examinations. While only sixteen men
presented themselves for the Cambridge Uni-
versity test last June, 866 women above the
age of eighteen years offered themselves at the
centres. Honor to whom honor is due!

	MRS. Hayes, wife of ex-President Hayes,
gave a reception last week at the pleasant resi-
dence of ex-Governor Claflin, Newtonville. It
was of an informal nature, and was well at-
tended by the representative families of New-
ton. It lasted from three till six o'clock. Af-
terward Mrs. Hayes and Mrs. Claflin paid a

[Column 2]
visit to John G. Whit[-]ier, at his home in Dan-
vers.—Ex.

	THE ninth annual congress of the Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Women met at
Buffalo, N. Y., on the 19th inst. The attend-
ance was large, delegates being present from
nearly all the cities in the Union. An able
and exhaustive inaugural was delivered by
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe. Papers by Mrs.
Mary F. Eastman, on "Factory Girls," and by
Kate Gannet Wells, (all of Boston,) on "Out-
door Occupation," were read.—Ex.

	YOUNG "Coningsby's" future home, into pos-
session of which he will come when he is of
age, is in the meantime to be let for his benefit.
Hughenden will probably fetch a good rent.
Many people would like the honor and glory
of living where the Tory chief lived. Con-
ingsby will thus have another addition made
to the fortune which is to be carefully nursed
for him. It is small enough now, but Lord
Beaconsfield has chosen careful executors, and
when the impassive youth comes of age, he
will probably have quite enough to support the
peerage which it is said the Queen hopes to
give him, and his uncle's party might easily
obtain for him.

	LORD Beaconsfield must have been a joy to
the printers if, as the manuscripts of some of
his early novels seem to show, he was in the
habit of writing on both sides of the paper.
The author of "Vivian Grey" knew how to be
original, even in little things. It appears that
his handwriting was not more legible in his
early than in his later years. How many dis-
tinguished authors have taken a pride in their
caligraphy? Dickens did, and so did Thacke-
ray. The MSS. of "Little Dorrit" and "Mar-
tin Chuzzlewit," which are to be seen at the
South Kensington Museum are models of pen-
manship. Thackeray always wrote a hand
which seemed in keeping with the delicate
fancy and artistic finish of his work. But
there are exceptions, and if any one wants to
know how villianously a great man can scrawl
his ideas, he should look at the handwriting of
Carlyle.


﻿YOUNG MISSIONARIES.

	ON Monday morning, Octobere 24th, Bishop
O. F. Whitney, left this city on a mission to
Great Britain. Brother Whitney is eminent-
ly gifted with a versatility of superior talents,
which ably qualify and endow him to labor as
a writer or preacher in the ministry to which
he has been called and ordained by the ser-
vants of God. We sincerely wish him a safe
and pleasant journey to his place of destina-
tion. On the 9th of August Elder John Q.
Cannon started on a mission to the same place.
Brothers Whitney and Cannon were both em-
ployed on the editorial staff of the Desert
News for some time previous to their call to
this mission. They are young men of bright
promise, of whom much is expected, and we
have no doubt they will succeed admirably in 
their field of labor in the European mission,
but they will be missed in many places here,
where they were greatly beloved and esteemed.
						E.B.W.


[Column 1]
H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
NOTICE.

HAVING PROCURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE-
cimens, etc., I am now prepared to give instructions
in the art of Obstetrics and other branches connected there-
with. My class will open Nov. 1st, 1881. Those wishing to
join this class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send cast for books. Terms: Tuition, 60
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
					E. R. SHIPP, M.D., Salt Lake City.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z. C. M. I.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.

Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE.—MAIN ST. OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, NO. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1881. 	NO. 12.


MARY, QUEEN OF SCOTTS.
			------------
I look'd far back into other years, and lo! in bright
	array,
I saw, as in a dream, the form of ages passed away.
It was a stately convent, with its old and lofty walls,
And gardens, with their broad, green walks, where soft
	the footstep falls;
And o'er the antique dial stones the creeping shadows
	passed,
And all around the noonday sun a drowsy radiance cast
No sound of busy life was heard, save from the cloister
	dim, 
The tinkling of the silver bell, or the sisters' holy hymn.
And there five noble maidens sat, beneath the orchard 
	trees,
In that first budding Spring of youth, when all its pros-
	pects please;
And little rocked they when they sang, or knelt at ves-
	per prayers,
That Scotland knew no prouder names, held none more
	dear than theirs;
And little even the loveliest thought, before the Virgin's
	shrine,
Of royal blood and high descent, from the ancient Stuart
	line;
Calmly her happy days flew on, uncounted in their flight,
And as they flew, they left behind a long, continuing 
	light.

The scene was changed. It was the court--the gay court
	of  Bourbon--
And 'neath a thousand silver lamps a thousand courtiers
	throng,
And proudly kindles Henry's eye, well pleased, I ween
	to see
The land assemble all its wealth of grace and chivalry.
Grey Montmoreney, o'er whose head has passed a storm
	of years,
Strong in himself and children stands, the first among 
	his peers;
And next the Guises, who so well Fame's steepest heights
	assail'd,
And walked Ambition's diamond ridge, where bravest
	hearts have failed;
And higher yet their path shall be, stronger shall wax
	their might,
For before them, Montmoreney's star shall pale its wan-
	ing light;
Here Louis, Prince of Conde, wears his all unconquered
	sword,
With great Coligni by his side--each name a household
	word;
And here walks she of Mediel, that proud Italian line,
The mother of a race of kings, the haughty Catherine;
The forms that follow in her train a glorious sunshine
	make--
A milky way of stars that grace a comet's glittering
	wake.
But fairer far than all the rest who bask on Fortune's 
	tide, 
Effulgent in the light of youth, is she, the new made
	bride.
The homage of a thousand hearts, the fond, deep love of
	one,
The hopes that dance around a life whose charms are but
	begun;
They lighten up her chestnut eye, they mantle o'er her
	cheek;
They sparkle on her open brow, and high-soul joy be- 
	speak.

The scene was changed. It was a barque that slowly
	held its way,
And o'er its lea the coast of France in the light of eve-
	ning lay;
And on its deck a lady sat, who gazed with tearful eyes
Upon the fast receding hills that dim and distant rise.  
No marvel that the lady wept, there was no land on
	earth
She loved like that dear land, although she owed it not
	her birth;
It was her mother's land, the land of childhood and of 
	friends;
It was the land where she had found for all her griefs
	amends;
The land where her dead husband slept, the land where
	she had known
The franquil convent's hushed repose, and the splendors 
	of a throne-
No marvel that the lady wept, it was the land of France
The chosen home of chivalry, the garden of romance.
The past was bright, like those dear hills so far behind
	her barque--
The future, like the gathering night, was ominous and
	dark.
One gaze again, one long, last gaze, "Adieu, fair
	France," cried she;
The breeze come forth, she is alone on the unconscious
	sea.

The scene was changed. It was an eve of raw and surly
	mood,
And in a turret chamber high of ancient Holyrood
Sat Mary, listening to the rain, and sighing with the
	winds,
That seemed to suit the stormy state of men's uncertain
	minds.
The touch of care had blanched her cheek, her smile was
	sadder now,
The weight of royalty had pressed too heavy on her
	brow;
And traitors to her council came, and rebels to the field--
The Stuart sceptre well she sway'd, but the sword she
	could not wield.
She thought of blighted hopes and dreams of yonth’s
	brief day,
And summoned Rizizo with his lute, and bade the min-
	strel play
The songs she loved in early years, the songs of gay Na-
	varre--
The songs, perchance, that erst were sung by gallant
	Chatelur;
They half beguiled her of her cares, and soothed her
	into smiles,
And won her thoughts from bigot zeal and fierce do-
	mestic broils.
But hark! the tramp of armed men, the Douglas battle-
	cry;
They come, they come, and lo! the scowl of Ruthven's
	hollow eye;
And swords are drawn, and daggers gleam, and tears
	and words are vain--
The ruffian's steel is in his heart, the faithful Rizzio's
	slain.
Then Mary Stuart brushed aside the tears that trickling 
	fell
"Now fo rmy father's arm," she cried; "my woman's
	heart, farwell!"

The scene was changed. It was a lake with one small,
	lonely isle;
And there, within the prison walls of its baronial pile,
Stern men stood menacing their Queen, till she should
	stoop to sign
The traitorous scroll that snatched the crown from her
	ancestral line.
"My lords, my lords," the captive said, "were I but
	once more free,
With ten good knights on yonder shore to aid my cause
	and me,
That parchment I would scatter wide to every wind that
	blows,
And once more reign a Stuart Queen o'er my remoreless
	foes."
A red spot burned upon her cheek, streamed her rich
	tresses down;
She wrote the words, she stood erect--a Queen without 
	 a crown.

The scene was changed. A royal host a royal bannor
	bore,
And the faithful of the land stood round their smiling
	Queen once more;
She stayed her steed upon a hill, who saw them march
	ing by,
She heard their shouts, she read success in every flashing
	eye.
The tumult of the strife begins, it roars, it dies away;
And Mary's troops and banners now, and courtiers,
	where are they?
Scattered and strewn and flying far, defenceless and un-
	done--
O God! to think what she has lost, and think what guilt
	has won.
Away, away! thy galiant steed must act no laggard
	part,
Yet vain thy speed, for thou dost bear the arrow in thine
	heart.

The scene was changed. Beside the block a sullen
	headsman stood,
And gleamed the broad axe in his hand, that soon must
	drip with blood.
With slow and steady step there came a lady through
	the hall,
And breathless silence chained the lips and touched the
	hearts of all;
Rich were the sable rocks she wore, her white veil round
	her fell,
And from her neck there hung the cross; the cross she
	loved so well.
I knew that queenly form again, though blighted was
	its bloom;
I saw that grief had decked it out, an offering for the 
	tomb;
I knew the eye, though faint its light, that once so
	brightly shone,
I knew the voice, though feeble now, that thrilled with
	every tone;
I knew the ringlets, almost grey, once threads of living
	gold;
I knew that bounding grace of step, that symmetry of
	mould.
Even now I see her far away, in that calm convent aisle,
I hear her chant her vesper hymn, I mark her holy smile;
Even now I see her bursting forth upon her bridal morn,
A new star in the firmament, to light and glory born.
Alas! the change - she placed her foot upon a triple
	throne,
And on the scaffold now she stands, beside the block,
	alone;
The little dog that licks her hands, the last of all the
	crowd
Who sunned themselves beneath her glance and round
	her footsteps bowed.
Her neck is bared, the blow is struck, the soul has passed
	away;
The bright, the beautiful is now a bleeding piece of clay.
The dog is moaning piteously, and, as it gurgles o'er,
Laps the warm blood that trickling fell, unheeded, to
	the floor;--
The blood of beauty, wealth and power, the heart blood
	of a queen,
The noblest of the Stuart race, the fairest earth has seen,
Lapped by a dog! Go, think of it in silence and alone,
And weigh against a grain of sand the splendors of a
	throne.
								-SELECTED.
			----------------------------------


WOMAN IN TURKEY.--The Turkish woman
is marriageble at the age of nine years, and, by
Turkish law, at that age, if married, she is
sompetent to manage her property and dispose
of one-third of her fortune.  The law allows
her to abandon her husband's house for a just
cause, and will protect her in so doing.  She
cannot be compelled to labor for the support
of her husband.  On the contrary, he is com-
pelled to support her; and it is a penal offence
to insult or ill-treat her.  Should he not fur-
nish her with funds, she is authorized to borrow
in his name and even sell his property. After
marriage she has the absolute control of her
own property, which he cannot touch.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DR. FERGUSON'S LETTER.
	COHOES, N. Y., Oct. 24, 1881.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Since I left Salt Lake City last August how
often has my heart traveled back to the city
of the Saints, beloved Zion! In carrying out
the purpose and work for which I came East,
my time has principally been spent among the
Gentiles, strangers to the truth and lovers of
pleasure more than lovers of God.  No one
but a Latter-day Saint can realize the com-
plete isolation and loneliness that one can feel
when far from the assemblies of the faithful,
even in the midst of the busy throngs that
crowd the highways of labor and commerce.
When I stepped off the cars here and received
a warm welcome from Sister Clough and
Adey, I felt that the sight of a Latter-day
Saint was as refreshing to my spirit as food
and drink to a hungry and thirsty traveler.
How blessed is the communion of Saints! How
cheerless this world would be without the fel-
lowship of kindred minds, the harmony of will
and purpose that binds together the children
of our Heavenly Father in the new and ever-
lasting covenant.
	Perhaps a brief account of my work during
the past two months will not be uninteresting
to some of your readers.  After resting a few
days in New York, and making acquaintance
with those to whom letters of introduction had
been given me, I found that I should have
considerable time on my hands before the
medical schools would open, which might be
advantageously employed in missionary work.
I accordingly made my way to Long Island,
where at Rockville Center I met with a hearty
welcome from Brother and Sister Pettit.  Sis-
ter Zina having left me, in order to visit friends
and relatives in the north, I was at liberty  to 
arrange my plans as seemed most convenient.
	I called on the families of those that had
a name and a standing in the Church.  Most
of them were very glad to talk over the
things of the Kingdom, but they are scattered
abroad like sheep without a shepherd.  While
on the Island I suffered considerably from ma-
laria.  The weather was sultry, thermometer
at 104° to 108'.
  Leaving Long Island, I weent to Hartford,
Conn., where I spent a week very pleasantly,
doing all I could by social intercourse, an-
swering questions and conversation, to pre-
sent a reasonable and correct view of our faith
and practice.  After delivering an address in
Unity Church, at the Memorial Services for
President Garfield , several persons asked me
seriously if it was true that the Mormons had
prayed for President Garfield's death, as the
papers said they did.  This is the character of
nearly all the inquiries made of me- some
question arising out of the falsehoods and mis-
statements of the newspapers.  We cannot
blame the people here for their opinion of us;
they have no means of judging  of us except
by the information they get from the news-
papers, and when the foundation is falsehood,
what must the superstructure be?  I found my
friends in Utica, N. Y., had read the recent
article in Harper's Monthly, "The Mormon
Situation," and were eager to know why we
permitted such a man to live in Utah, who
could write such a tissue of falsehood and scur-
rilous misrepresentation as they were convinced
that was, after reading the "Fruits of Mormon-
ism," whch I had lent them.  I told them the
fact that he did live there in peace, after pub-
lishing such slanders, was a complete refutation
of his whole statement.  The Mormons were
so law-abiding and long-suffering, that the
stings of such a viper excited no resentment.
We left his punishment in the hands of the
God whose work he had despised, and whose
name he had blasphemed. 
  Sister Zina D. Young and myself have just
returned from attending the Woman's Congress
at Buffalo.  It was a gathering of women
whose names stand high in the records of Phi-
lanthropy, Education, Science, and Art--poets,
preachers, writers and workers.  Among those
whose strong individuality impressed itself
most vividly upon the mind stands prominently
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, the President of the
Association for the Advancement of Women,
whose dignity and grace, aesthetic culture and
enthusiastic philanthropy have won for her the
warmest admiration of all who come within the
scope of her influence.  Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney
was evidently a favorite with the audience, and
whenever she arose to speak a murmur of ap-
probation ran through the assembly.  Mrs.
Sara J. A. Spencer, of Washington, personally
and intellectually one of the most brilliant
women of the Convention, and Miss Mary
Eastman, the well-known platform and pulpit
lecturer, who knows more and can say it better
than one half of our average Congressman,
were the recipients of hearty applause from
the audience while discussing their favorite
topics.  Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, the most
successful woman lawyer of the age, whose
strongly marked features clearly indicate the
indomitable energy and perseverance of her
character, with Mrs. Mary Livermore, Mrs.
H. T. Wolcott, Miss Abby May, and others,
formed a galaxy of fair and worthy women,
who would command respect in any commu-
nity.  As we avowed ourselves to be Mormons,
we were not permitted an opportunity of rep-
resenting either ourselves or those whose cause
we had come to plead.  A little bird, whose
place in ornithology has not yet been deter-
mined by naturalists, whispered to me that
the chief objection to our admission as mem-
bers of the A. A. W. was the fact that we as
a people were violating the law of the land.
When I heard this, and looked upon the wo-
men who sat before me, many of whom were
crowned with the silver lilies of seven decades,
memory involuntarily recalled the time, when
these same women in their prime proudly
planted the banner of Freedom for the negro
on the neck of the violated Fugitive Slave
Law. Every advance step in the social, re-
ligious and political progress of our race has
been taken over the debris of broken statutes
and violated laws.  Resistance to and violation
of unjust and oppressive enactments were
the birth-pangs of American Independence,
and the problem of woman's salvation and
exaltation through the principle of Celestial
Marriage will be wrought out under similar
conditions.  The "higher law" under which
the old time abolitionists achieved their great-
est victories has never been repealed- God's 
truth marches not backward, and the trumpet
of His Gospel "shall never call retreat."  The
speeches and essays were good, some of them
excellent.  They contained a plea for the work-
woman and the scholar, the factory girl and
the artist, the Indian and the prostitute, but
for the "brave daughters of the desert," the
women of the New and Everlasting Covenant,
"who make womanhood the synonym for wife"
and crown motherhood with eternal honors,
there was neither place nor voice.  I contrasted
the proceedings of this Congress of Christian
women, who opened and closed their six public
sessions without prayer or thanksgiving, with
our own meetings in Utah, where supplication
for the presence and blessing of our Father
characterizes all our assemblies, and depend-
ence upon His Spirit for wisdom and guidance
is the attitude of every speaker.
	Sisters in Zion, be not weary in well doing,
but be faithful and endure unto the end, and
ye shall receive a crown of life, which the Lord,
the righteous Judge shall give you in that day
when His judgements shall be poured out upon
the wicked and those who obey not His law.


A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

	The subject of this pen sketch is, like many
other eminent women of the Latter-day Saints,
directly descended from the Puritans of New
England, and her grandfather, William Hunt-
ington, served three or four years in the Revo-
lutionary army. The father of Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young was also a patriot, and served in the
war of 1812. Samuel Huntington, one of the
signers of the Declaration of Independence,
was the uncle of this old revolutionary soldier;
so Sister Zina, as she is familiarly known to
our people, is a lineal representative of the no-
ble blood of the Huntingtons.
	She says: "My fathers's family is directly
descended from Simon Huntington, the Puri-
tan immigrant, who sailed for America in 1633.
He died on the sea, but left three sons and his
widow, Margaret. The church records of Rox-
bury, Mass., contain the earliest record of the
Huntington name known in New England,
and is in the handwriting of Rev. John Elliot
himself, the pastor of that ancient church.
This is the record: 'Margaret Huntington,
widow, came in 1633. Her husband died by
the way, of smallpox. She brought children
with her.'
	"Tradition says that Simon, the Puritan im-
migrant, sailed for this country to escape the
persecutions to which non-conformists were
subjected during the high-handed administra-
tions of Laud and Charles the First. Tradi-
tion also declares him to have been beyond
doubt an Englishman. The Rev. E. B. Hunt-
ington, in his genealogical memoir of the
Huntington family in this country, observes:
'The character of his immediate descendants is
perhaps in proof of both statements; they were
thoroughly English in their feelings, affinities
and language; and that they were as thor-
oughly religious, their names and official con-
nection with the early churches in this country
abundantly attest.'
	"Of one of my great-grandfathers, the
Huntington family memoir records thus: 'John,
born in Norwich, Conn., March 15, 1666; mar-
ried, December 9, 1686, Abigail, daughter of
Samuel Lathrop, who was born in May, 1667.
Her father moved to Norwich from New Lon-
don, to which place he had gone from Scituate,
Mass,, in 1648. He was the son of the Rev.
John Lathrop, who, for non-conformity, being a
preacher in the First Congregational Church
organized in London, was imprisoned for two
years, and who, on being released in 1634, came
to this country, and became the first minister
of Scituate.'
	"The Lathrops, from which my branch of
the family was direct, also married with the
other branches of the Huntingtons, making us
kin of both sides, and my sister, Presendia La-
throp Huntington, bears the family name of
generations.
	"My grandfather, Wm. Huntington, the
revolutionary soldier, married Presendia La-
throp, and was one of the first settlers in the
Black River Valley, in Northern New York.
He was a native of Tolland, Conn., but in the
year 1774 removed to New Hampshire, where
he resided until 1804, when he removed to
Watertown, Jefferson Co., New York."
	Zina Diantha Huntington was born January
31, 1821, at Watertown. Her father was Wil-
liam Huntington, her mother Zina Baker, whose
father was one of the first physicians in New
Hampshire. Her grandmother on the mother's
side was Diantha Dimock, "descended from
the noble family of Dimocks, whose representa-
tives held the hereditary knight-championship
of England; instance, Sir Edward Dymock,
Queen Elizabeth's champion."
	Both the father and mother of Sister Zina
were strict Presbyterians. Of her mother she


says- "She believed God would hear and an-
swer prayer in behalf of the sick." The gift
of healing was with her before the Gospel was
restored in its fulness. This precious gift rests
in a great degree upon her daughters, and Sis-
ter Zina has been one of the most powerfully
gifted in faith of all the women in the Church.
She seems to be specially endowed with this
sacred gift, and in the exercise of it has had
some wonderful manifestations of the power of
God in healing the sick and afflicted. She
has so distinguished herself among the sick
and the sorrowing, that she has gained with
many the appellation of "Zina, the comforter;"
her sympathies are so keen as to enter into the
feelings of those who are suffering, and so ap-
preciate their condition as to render them that
sympathy which is eminently helpful. She is
also a natural nurse; her very touch is indica-
tive of this quality, and her great tenderness
wherever there is trouble, sorrow, or pain, is
thoroughly genuine. She would have been an
eminent woman physician, had she studied the
art, but as it is, with her superior, natural abil-
ity in this direction and the experience she has
gained in her long and useful life among the
sick and distressed of all classes, she has won
distinction beyond many who have gradu-
ated in the science, and her advice and help
are often called for by physicians of skill
and learning.

To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 91


[Column 1]
NO BLACK FOR ME.

"No black for me, dear love, when I am dead;
	Shroud not that precious face in funeral fold,
But wear a soft, white veil upon your head,
	As fits a saintly woman growing old.

"No hlack for me! Why, when eternal day
	Has burst in glory on my dazzled sight,
And God's own angels bear my soul away,
	Should my twin-spirit bow in woc and night!

"So keep the light about you; death is light
	And life and power to pure and chastened love;
And death is only dark to doubt and sight,
	That has no visions from the world above."

	I would like to produce the whole of this
beautiful little poem, but here is sufficient to
prove that the author's mind was inspired with
the light of truth and reason. As the custom
of wearing mourning is becoming so universal
among us as a people, I enroll my name among
its opposers; and as this custom affects women
the most, 'tis to them I appeal. The women
of Utah have been called "the re-modelers of
society," and 'tis true that we aim to adopt all
improvements, so far as they are consistent
with the spirit of true progress, and we are
striving to discourage all customs that have
not a good claim upon sound reason for their
continuance. The Latter-day Saint women
have borne much in attempting to sustain
practically those principles which they knew
to be true, and now cannot we face the ridicule
of Mrs. Grundy, or the scorn of Fashion's vo-
taries, for ignoring a style of dress, grown old
in the service of a world left without the light
of revelation. We claim to have received su-
perior intelligence upon the subject of death,
and draping ourselves in the gloomy folds of
mourning apparel is not in accordance with
the glorious light and hope beyond the grave,
which is given us by the religion of Jesus
Christ. Then, should we cling to this custom
of our forefathers, so suggestive of the dark
ages in which it originated? Let us gather
the light about us; it is when sorrow enters the
heart that we should court cheering influences,
as a young mother very sensibly replied when
asked why she did not wear mourning for her
child: "Because my heart is sad enough with-
out it." It has been truly said that "that grief
is most sincere which shuns observation."

[Column 2]
There is a natural delicacy in the human heart,
especially of sensitive people, which shrinks
from exhibitions of great joy or sorrow, and
such would gladly dispense with all the para-
phernalia of mourning, but have not the cour-
age to disobey the dictates of a long-estab-
lished fashion, and yield even in matters of the
heart. Is not our sorrow as sacred as our love?
Then why display it to the public gaze? The
fact that this custom requires all to wear crape
the same length of time, proves that it does
not serve its purpose; for, while some natures
are naturally more buoyant and hopeful, and
the sooner cease to mourn, and others are more
susceptible to the consoling influence of reli-
gion, yet all must wear the outward signs of
grief, though the spirit may have regained
cheerfulness.
	While I deem it a duty to seek consolation
and happiness from all sources, to place our-
selves in circumstances where we will be under
cheerful and happifying influences, I have
mentally exclaimed, "Consistency, thou art a
jewel!" while watching black dresses, with crape
timmings, waving through the gay dance,
while the smiling faces of the wearers betokened
joy more than grief; and while watching such
persons on pleasure excursions, and at places
of public amusement, the mourning apparel
appeared to me out of season. When one's
feelings will allow the habitual mingling in
gay society, good taste and sincerity would sug-
gest a more suitable costume.
	There appear many good reasons why mourn-
ing should be discountenanced. How often does
it mislead in regard to the true feelings which
it is intended to portray? For instance, one
widow, whose matrimonial experience has been
a scene of conflict, unmarked by affection, or
respect, and, perhaps, while sueing for a divorce,
death kindly releases her before the law; her
neighbor may be also separated from her hus-
band, a congenial, affectionate partner; both
wear mourning, but which is the mourner?
The broken-hearted mother who lays her dear-
est treasure in the grave, and the woman who
cannot grieve when a rich relative, for whom
she has little or no regard, dies and leaves her
money—these walk side by side in similar at-
tire, which is to signify that both are mourners,
while one is far from being such. Am I ex-
travagant? We know such things occur daily.
	Again, the expense and inconvenience of the
custom is another reason for its becoming ob-
solete. Perchance the support of a family is
taken away; to procure mourning they must
either incur debt, or be considered lacking in
respect for the dead. Extra and unnecessary
expenses are thus laid npon the widow's shoul-
ders when she is least able to meet them—ex-
penses which often become an injustice to chil-
dren; for the expenditure for the mourning
outfit is in many instances sufficient to pay for
a year's school tuition for a family. Can the
wife or daughter show respect for the dead by
robing themselves in the deepest mourning,
while the name of the deceased is whispered
hopelessly among his creditors?
	Above all things, don't crush the natural
care-free cheerfulness of children between the
folds of mourning; sad realities will come soon
enough to check their fountain of happiness,
let it flow while it will without restraint. It
may require some effort for parents to abandon
the mourning costume when they have been
taught from childhood to regard it as a neces-
sity in bereavement, but we have come out of
Babylon to rear our children in the light of
direct revelation, and let us keep their minds
free from all traditions and prejudices which
cannot be sustained in harmony with the spirit
of our religion. I know that many noble,
brave women have mourned their dead with
the most acute sense of loss, cherishing their
memory with reverence and affection, while
they wore no outward symbol of the grief

[Column 3]
within. And can any one honor them less for
possessing a delicacy of feeling which could
not be overcome by that monarch, Fashion,
who commands the worship of millions of the
thoughtless, who so willingly lay their consci-
encious scruples, their individvality and power
of self-government before the powerful throne?
	Convenience would suggest retaining the only
part of the mourning apparel of any utility,
the veil, which need not necessarily be black,
nor worn fluttering down the BACK, as the pre-
sent style demands.
	As for ornaments, who ever saw black flow-
ers? Here nature is outraged instead of imi-
tated, and in my opinion to wear them is an
insult to the lovely-hued flowery kingdom, none
of which were ever known to turn perfectly
black, even on the most solemn occasion—the
death of their own kindred.
	Let me here pay a tribute of thanks to one
of our leading ladies, who first appealed to my
reason and aroused thought on this subject.
When but a little girl I listened to her request
in a meeting of the sisters, which was: "Please
let the drapery of my funeral be WHITE; when
my worn and weary spirit has entered its rest,
there will be no occasion to mourn." With
her I say, "No black for me."
								LELIA.
	September 18, 1881.


MUSIC.
	What art so speaks to the soul as music?
All love music; it is enshrined in our nature.
Not the cultivated and refined alone, but also
the poor and lowly, all are alike touched by its
soothing powers.  It has a place in our higher
nature, and makes us purer and better by its
presence.  It inspires and elevates, has the
power to make us both sad and cheerful, and
while listening to it all evil thoughts leave us,
and we think only of the pure and beautiful.
It gives us new life, speaks to us of love, friend-
ship, joy, sorrow, rage and despair, all in its
own sweet, emotional language.  It brings re-
finement with it, where it is truly appreciated.
But although we all love music, still we are
not all destined to become musicians, for but
few, comparatively speaking, have the genius.
It is a great mistake with the parents that every
girl must learn to play the piano and sing, for
every  girl is not capable of this, any more than
every girl can become an artist or writer.  'Tis
true we can all learn to go over a few notes
mechanically, but few indeed have the real
soul of music within them.  Few, when they
play, stop to think what tale the author in-
tended to tell; if, by the title, they suppose the
piece to be gay, 'tis rattled off as quickly as
possible,  without giving the slightest thought,
supposing rapid motion to be all that is neces-
sary; but if, from the title, they suppose it to
be sad, it is played so slowly that instead of
being moved to tears, we are simply tired.
	Each piece of music in the author's mind
tells a little tale of its own, just as much as
though it were written in words.  But music
has a language of its own, and must be rightly
interpreted.  Sometimes it is sad, and some-
times cheerful, but like our lives, not all joy
and not all sorrow; here a sunbeam darts over
the piece, then a cloud obscures it.  now a gleam
of hope, and then despair; a dream of love
or sorrow, a reverie - and all should be told as
forcibly by the performer as poets tell their
emotions in beautiful words.  Seeking to play,
or sing, so as to bring out the true soul of the
piece, is the only way to be a successful artist.
We love to hear those most, who play or sing
with most expression, and feel deeply what
they seek to make others feel.
						BEATRICE.


SPAIN has decided to release all her political
prisoners.


92	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. NOVEMBER 15, 1881.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

"The sages say, Dame Truth delights to dwell,—
Strange mansion!—In the bottom of a well.
Questions are, then, the windlass and the rope
That pull the grave old gentlewoman up."

	In an article republished in Boston, Mass., by
the Woman's Journal, of October 22nd, (a very
ably edited suffrage paper, and a popular advo-
cate of measures to advance the cause of politi-
cal equality for men and women,) there are
many egregieus errors made in regard to woman
suffroge in Utah. The WOMAN'S EXPONENT has
been invited to refute them, and we willingly
reply to the Journal. We heartily thank
Mr. Blackwell for the few impartial
words of comment upon the article in question.
	The unknown writer says: "The ballot to
Mormon women in Utah is only another brand
of shame upon their brows." We cannot under-
take to explain the real meaning of the senti-
ment so strongly expressed by the writer. How-
ever, we may be permitted to give our idea of
the potency of the ballot in the hands of Mor-
mon women. It cannot but be apparent to any
logical reasoner, that the women of Utah hold
their political and social destiny largely in their
own hands by means of the franchise; and not-
withstanding the insinuations as to their want
of judgement in exercising this privilege,
they will not be blackguarded into
voting for men to hold office who
have so little respect for honorable wives,
mothers and daughters as to stigmatize them
with names too vile for utterance. Mormon
women, as a class, are eminently qualified to
vote intelligently, that is, to vote for the best
men, and those whom they think most thor-
oughly capable of filling positions of honor and
trust in the interests of the whole people. They
have no disposition whatever to vote for men
who spend their salaries in cigars and whiskey
and other degrading vices, and who would
destroy the very institutions they have
been engaged in founding. Not only
so, but they have learned by bitter expe-
rience what unprincipled rulers will
do, when they have the power. There may
be and possibly are, women here who are igno-
rant of the power vested in the ballot, and who
do not comprehend the right of suffrage proper-
ly; it would be strange indeed if there were not,
as it is a new feature in woman's career; but in
this respect it is only an offset, for there are men,
and men have been citizens of the Republic for
a century and more, who have no true apprecia-
tion of the ballot and who sell their votes to the
highest bidder.
	Ever since the franchise was granted to the
women of Utah, they have labored, through the
systematic organizations that exist throughout
the Territory, to educate both the women and
children of the Territory, to a proper under-
standing of the principles, and executive power

[Column 2]
of the government of the country, and a just
realization of the importance of political equal-
ity. Mormon women not only go to
the polls and vote, but they attend political,
Primary and school meetings in their several
respective districts, and the most perfect liberty
is accorded them for the expression of their
opinions upon subjects connected with the
nominations to be made, or of their views in
securing the most excellent methods of govern-
ment. In almost every district women are
chosen as delegates to the county conventions,
and when assembled in the capacity of
a convention take an active part
in the proceedings, and some are always nomi-
nated upon the several committees that are
called to act in the interest of the whole. Wo-
men also form a part of the Territorial and
County Central Committees. Owing to the un-
fortunately adverse views of the late Governors
of Utah upon woman suffrage, the women of
Utah are not yet entitled to hold any office of
emolument or trust within the gift of the peo-
ple. When Utah has a Governor liberal enough
towards women to sign the bill passed by the
Legislature, to remove the only difficulty now
in the way of their holding office, then there
will be an opportunity to see what the suffrage
has done towards qualifying women to fill
important positions in the Territory, that is if
the people should nominate and cast a ma-
jority of votes for a woman.
	Intelligent, consistent women will naturally
vote for those, who maintain the institutions
which they believe to be for the highest eleva-
tion of the human race. Men who practically
sustain places which degrade and lead astray the
young, ignorant and unwary, must not expect
virtuous, highminded women to vote for them
to fill any office, which would add to their influ-
ence or power. Were they to do this, they
would be aiding in the destruction of the very
government, it is their imperative duty to main-
tain. Mormon women vote for their own highest
interest, and the men who they believe will
best subserve that interest. Would they not be
lacking in wisdom to vote for men who perse-
cute and denounce them, and who are continu-
ally urging upon Congress the necessity of se-
vere measures in dealing with the Mormons,
and calling upon priests and people everywhere
to come to their aid and suppress Mormon insti-
tutions.
	The secret ballot in Utah, of which all may
not be aware, gives every individual full liberty
to vote as he or she pleases, without the know-
ledge of another, so that any undue authority or
compulsion cannot possibly be exercised in
the actual casting of votes.
	As to whether Mormon women are independ-
ent in thought, one only needs to make them-
selves acquainted with facts. They not
only think for themselves, but they are fast be-
coming educated in the intelligent expression of
the views they hold on all subjects.
	The development of mind is strengthened by
expression and interchange of ideas, and through
the complete system of organization which ex-
tends to the most remote towns and villages of
Utah, there is a broad field of expansion for the
capabilities of women. All industrial occupa-
tions are open to woman alike with man.
	In regard to the right of dower, to which the
article alluded to refers, it is only fair to state
that women in Utah are citizens equally with
men; they stand precisely in the same position
as regards property rights, as well as taxes, which
removes the necessity of the right of dower.
Women here have the homestead privilege;
whether married or single they can hold property
in their own name, and are required to pay taxes
in the same proportion as men; they can buy or

[Column 3]
sell and transact business as they like. That is
the best law which provides for the maintenance
of all citizens, instead of favoring a few. The
right of dower, as it is called, would deprive the
plural wife of any privilege in sharing the prop-
erty of her husband, and would debar her chil-
dren from a share of the family estate. And
while the law as it stands is better for all, it is
equally good for the single, individual wife.
This law was approved February 16, 1872, and
the bill must have been signed by the Governor
of the Territory, to make it valid, which Gover-
nor was verily not a Mormon, nor in favor of
Mormon principles. We publish in full the act.

AN ACT CONCERNING THE PROPERTY RIGHTS
OF MARRIED PERSONS.

	"SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and
Legislative Assembly of Utah: That all prop-
erty owned by either spouse before marriage, and
that acquired afterward by gift, bequest, devise
or descent, with the rents, issues and profits
thereof, is the separate property of that spouse
by whom the same is so owned or acquired, and
separate property owned or acquired as specified
above, may be held, managed, controlled, trans-
ferred and in any manner disposed of by the
spouse so owning or acquiring it, without any
limitation or restriction by reason of marriage.
	SEC. 2. "Either spouse may sue or be sued,
plead or be impleaded, or defend and be defended
at law.
	"SEC. 3. No right of dower shall exist or be
allowed in this Territory."
	The "Woman's Journal," or any other paper
or persons, can judge for themselves in regard to
the justice of this law. We remember when a
girl in the old Bay State of hearing our mother,
who by the bye was a strong-minded woman,
grumbling about the "right of dower;" she con-
sidered the law very lame indeed in this respect.
So if some one grumbles about the law in Utah,
it is no more than people do elsewhere.
	In regard to misrepresentations and misstate-
ments, it would be useless to attempt to contra-
dict all that people say against the Mormons.
We are glad of an opportunity, however, to pre-
sent the facts in regard to the ballot in Utah,
which is perfectly consistent with the genius of
Mormonism, for Mormon women have always
voted upon all religious questions. It is a fact
that cannot be denied that the Mormons are the
old settlers here; Mormon women have the suf-
frage and they exercise it in the fear of God, as a
gift from Him under the impulse of the age in
the progress of reform.


HERE AND THERE.
 On Monday Nov. 7, in company with Sisters
E. R. S. Smith, E. Howard, E. S. Taylor and
Louie Felt we left this city to visit Payson and
other places in Utah County. At Provo we
were joined by Ma Smoot, as she is affectionate-
ly called, the President of Relief Societies in
Utah Stake. We arrived at Payson and spent a
pleasant evening at the hospitable home of
Brother and Sister Douglas. On Tuesday morn-
ing the Relief Society assembled in the meeting
house, Mrs. B. J. Simons presiding. After
singing, prayer and reading of minutes, and a
few remarks by Mrs. Simons, Ma Smoot deliv-
ered an eloquent address upon the develop-
ment and advancement of woman, and plu-
ral marriage, expressed her belief that
these organizations made women bet-
ter mothers, wives and citizens; but
her strong point is Celestial Marriage, upon
which she is theoretically and practically quali-
fied to speak. Sister Eliza touched upon many
topics interestingly and most earnestly, indeed
we have never heard her speak better or more


fervently. Sisters E. Howard, E. B. Taylor, and
others made many excellent remarks upon edu-
cation, literature and the careful training of the
young. Bishop Tanner and Counselor Lant ex-
pressed their desire that the people would put in
practice the good advice which had been given
by the sisters.
	In the afternoon of the same day, the four
Primary Associations of Payson held a conjoint
meeting, over which Sister E. R. S. Smith pre-
sided. The exercises were very entertaining,
and the children, about two hundred and
fifty  in number, all seemed intensely
interested. After the close of the meeting,
the ladies returned to the residence of Mrs.
Douglas where they were sweetly [-]erenaded by
about one hundred little girls. It was an affect-
ing scene and baffles all description.
	The same evening the Y. L. M. I. A. held a
meeting at which Miss Ida Coombs presided.
Tha house was crowded to overflowing. An
interesting feature of the meeting was the read-
ing by the secretary of the manuscript paper
which is edited by the Association entitled “The
Young Lady's Journal.” It is now in the sixth
volume, and is very creditable indeed. We re-
commend this course to all associations, as one
of the best methods for improvment. Mrs. E. S.
Taylor spoke earnestly upon many subjects con-
nected with the advancement of the young, the
reading of good books, the necessity of testi-
mony to all Latter-day Saints and
other subjects of vital importance to those who
expect to do the great work devolving upon the
women of the future. Sisters E. Howard, E. B.
Wells, Louie Felt, E. R. S. Smith and M. T.
Smoot each addressed the audience for a short
time, giving much good counsel and instruction.
Wednesday morning, Sisters Smoot, Howard
and Taylor took the train, the two former for
Provo, Sister Taylor returning home to the city.
The other Sisters rode over to Spanish Fork, and
met with the Relief Society in the afternoon.
Mrs. Mary Ferguson presiding. In the evening
there was a meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A., nu-
merously attended by both sexes, Mrs. Mary J.
Morrison presiding.
	Stirring appeals were made to the young peo-
ple by Sister Eliza and the ladies who accom-
panied her. The young ladies of Spanish Fork
also read a paper called “Young Ladies’ Herald
of Union.” It was very interesting, and we
trust they will continue to improve.
	Thursday, at 11 o'clock, there was a meeting
of the Primary Association, which numbers
nearly 300 children; Miss Mary Ann McLean
presiding. Ater some exercises by the chil-
dren, Sister Eliza, by request of the Bishop,
divided the children into two organizations, with
a president over each, all to be under the presi-
dency of Miss McLean, who has been most
faithful in training them, and to whom the chil-
dren are fondly attached.
	A little change was also made in the Young
Ladies’ Association. They had six Counselors
and a Superintendent. Four of  these Counsel-
ors and the Superintendent were honorably re-
leased from acting; as according to the present
System of organization, which it is necessary
should be uniform, only two counselors are con-
sidered advisable.
	Thursday evening Sister Eliza and party took
the train for Santaquin. Arriving there drove
direct to the meeting house, which
was well filled with brethren and sisters.
It was the meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A., Miss
Mary Ann Openshaw presiding. The minutes 
were excellent and well rendered. Sister Eliza
and the other Sisters addressed the meeting.
Bishop Halladay and Brother Openshaw each
made a few remarks, speaking in terms of praise
of the labors and instructions of the sisters.
	We were all most cordially welcomed to San-
taquin and entertained at the residence of Bro-
ther Stickney, who being a Yankee was delighted
to find his guests all Yankees too. Friday morn-
ing met with the Relief Society, Mrs. E. J.
Stickney presiding. A very good meeting; the
spirit of the Lord resting in great abundance
upon the speakers. Before time to commence
the meeting of the Primary Association in the
afternoon, the children met with their president
and came marching down two by two to escort
the sisters to the meeting house. It was a very
pretty sight indeed.
The meeting was presided over by Miss Zella
Holliday. The exercises were all well rendered
and the children, about 150 in number, kept the
most excellent order. These children are pre-
paring for a fair and exhibition, which is sure to
be a success. The children of Payson held a
fair on Saturday, the 12th inst.
	On Saturday morning we returned home.
Sisters Eliza R. S. S. and Louie Felt were to go-
to Goshen the same day. There are many
other interesting items connected with this tour
that will probably appear in the next issue of
the Exponent.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

 PRESIDENT George Q."Cannon, wife and niece,
Miss Mina Cannon, returned from the southern
part of the Territory on Sunday morning train.
THE last company of emigrants for this season
arrived on Thursday, the 10th inst. well, and
having had a safe and prosperous journey.
PRES. Taylor and party are all enjoying the
best of health, and are doing much good among
the people wherever they travel. They are pro-
bably at Rockville to-day, on their return trip.
SISTERS M. Isabella Horne and E. Howard
have been attending the Sisters’ Conference of
Wasatch Stake, which was held at Heber City
on Friday, the 11th inst. They have not yet re-
turned home.	
 THE President of the Grain Committee ur-
geently requests full reports as soon as possible
from all the different localities where grain is
being stored for Zion; and if they have grana-
ries, what dimensions and material, and at what 
cost they have been built. Direct to Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah.
THE prize essay affair, about which consider-
able curiosity has been manifested of late, has
at last been settled, Mr. R. W. Sloan, of the “Salt
Lake Herald,” being the lucky winner. The
prize essay on “Utah and her Resources,” is
published in full in the Salt Lake Herald of
Sunday, Nov. 6, and is certainly a very excellent
one. We sincerely congratulate our young friend,
upon his success, and are very glad the prize was 
won by one of the Mormon boys, raised and
educated in Utah; in fact, Mr. Sloan is almost
entirely self-educated, having had very little op-
portunity to attend school, as he has been from
childhood employed in the “Herald” Office in
this city. The essay comprises under its several
sub-headings, Agriculture, Horticulture, Stock-
raising, Mining, Manufactures, Attractions, and
it will bear reading more than once. Two of
the other essays are to be published, and perhaps
all of them may be; no doubt they are all good.
The prize awarded was a check for fifty dollars,
given by Mr. Meears.


FATAL ACCIDENT.

	About 11 o'clock on Nov. 3, Maggie Rebecca,
daughter of George and Jane S. Coleman, of
Escalante, Iron Co., fell, at that place, from a
wagon loaded with adobies and being driven by


the father. The girl was run over by one of the
hind wheels, crushing the life right out of her.
All was done that could be to restore vitality,
but to no effect—the spirit had fled. About a
month previous to her death, the child fell into
the well and came near being drowned. Little
Maggie was three years old the 5th Of October.
Being her mother's youngest and a fine, promis-
ing child, she was the joy and sunshine of her
home.’ We deeply sympathize with our dear
and valued friends, the parents and family, in
this sudden and sorrowful bereavement.
								LULA.


OBITUARY.
	DIED, at Bellevue, Kane Co., September 28,
1881, of consumption, Christine Sylvester, wife
of Joshua W. Sylvester, Bishop of Elsinore,
Sevier Co., while on a visit at the house of her
father-in-law, Mr. James Sylvester. Deceased
was a native of Mygdal, Hjorring, Denmark,
born April 19, 1847; baptized in the year 1855,
and emigrated to Utah in 1862. She was Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Elsinore, and was
firm in the belief and practice of the principles
of the Everlasting Gospel. She was a true and
loving wife, a kind and affectionate mother, and
was beloved and respected by all those who,
through duty and circumstances, had made her
acquaintance.  She leaves a husband and seven
children and a large circle of friends to mourn
her loss.
			LENA HANSON, Sec'y R.S.


ATTENTION, SECRETARIES!

	The Secretaries of Relief Societies in Salt
Lake Stake are urgently requested to send in
their semi-annual reports by the 5th of March,
as it is impossible for the Stake Secretary to
make a correct report unless she receives the re-
port from each Society in due time.
				M. ISABELLA HORNE, Prest.
				ELIZABETH HOWARD, Sec'y.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Although the Lord had revealed the princi-
ple of Celestial Marriage to Joseph Smith in
an early day, the astounding revelation and
command to proclaim it was not given until
after the Saints had settled in Nauvoo. Jo-
seph put off the dreaded day as long as he
dared. I recollect on a certain Sabbath, pre-
vious to the Apostles' return from Europe, of
hearing my mother and others expressing their
wonder and astonishment at what they had
heard uttered that day by the Prophet, upon
the restoration of all things, etc; His wife as
well as others was quite excited over it. See-
ing the effect that his sermon had upon his
hearers in the afternoon, he consoled them by
saying that the time which he had spoken of
might be further off than he had viewed it; at
all events the Lord would help them and carry
them safely through it, if they were faithful.
	No wonder that this duty weighed so heav-
ily upon his mind, nor that he shouId mani-
fest such anxiety to again behold his breth-
ren, the Apostles, to deliver into their hands
the keys of the kingdom. The great joy
and affection which he manifested at once
more meeting and clasping them by the hand
proved the confidence which he felt in them as
men of God. Those were days of peril, and
the tried and faithful few were I believe, among
the master spirits appointed, or reserved, by the
Almighty to come forth in the day in which
He began to restore the ancient order of His
kingdom, to prepare for the winding up scene.


The humiliation of the Saints only increased
their union. Abuse never injured a cause, and
persecution has never stopped the progress of
this work, but only added fuel to the flame and
attracted the attention of the world, and caused
thousands to join the standard of truth. As
to our religious principles, we have nothing to
disguise, but on the contrary wish them to be
known, that they may be judged of correctly.
   The Latter-day Saints have always been ac-
cused by the world of denying the Old Bible
and substituting a new one, which they were
pleased to call "Joe Smith's Golden Bible." I
will here mention one circumstance: a cousin
who lately paid me a visit from the States,
seemed very much surprised at seeing upon my
table the old family Bible, which happened to
be her Uncle Heber's. I merely speak of this
to show how little the Gentile world know
about us, or can understand the faith and doc-
trines of the people whom they are so ready to
judge.
	Notwithstanding the life of the Prophet was
sought and his enemies were ready to cut him
off, yet he always had some warm-hearted
friends who plead his cause.  The following
extract from a letter written by James Arling-
ton Bennett to the N.Y. Herald, dated Ar-
lington House N.Y., Oct. 16, 1842, concern-
ing the Mormons, I am sure will be read with
interest by the Saints. His words were pro-
phetic:
  "Why should I not be Joseph Smith's friend?
He has done nothing to injure me, nor do I be-
lieve he has done anything to injure ex-Gover-
nor Boggs, of Missouri. The Governor, no
doubt, under strong feelings may have thought
and believed that Smith had preconcerted the
plan for his assassination, but there is no legal
evidence whatever of that fact, none by which
an unprejudiced jury would convict any man;
yet to send this man into Missouri, under the
present requisition, would be an act of great
injustice, as his ruin would be certain. How
could any man, against whom there is a bitter
religious prejudice, escape ruin, being in the
circumstances of Joseph Smith	*	*	*
Look at the history of past ages--see the force
of fanaticism and bigotry in bringing to the
stake some of the best of men; and in all
these cases the persecutors had their pretexts,
as well as in the case of the Mormon chief.	*
*	*	Smith, I conceive, has just as good a
right to establish a church, if he can do it, as
Luther, Calvin, Wesley, Fox, or even King
Henry the Eighth. All these chiefs in religion
had their opponents, and their people their
persecutors.  *    *  Just so it will be with the
Mormons.  They may kill one prophet, and
confine in chains half his followers, but another
will take his place, and the Mormons will still
go ahead.
   "One of their Elders said to me, when con-
versing on this subject, that they were like a
mustard plant -- if you don't disturb it the
seed will fall and multiply; and if you kick it
about you only give the seed more soil, and it
will multiply the more.'
   "Gen. J.C. Bennett has stated that, to con-
quer the Mormon Legion it would require five
to one against them, all things taken into con-
sideration, and that they will die to a man
sooner than give up their Prophet.  Now, is
the arrest of this man worth such a sacrifice
of life as must necessarily follow an open war
with his people? The loss of from one to three
thousand lives will no doubt follow in the at-
tempt to accomplish an object not in the end
worth a button.
   "Persecute them, and you are sure to multi-
ply them.  This is fully proved since the Mis-
souri persecution, as, since that affair they have
increased one hundred fold. It is the best
policy, both of Missouri and Illinois, to let
them alone; for if they are driven farther
west, they may set up an independent govern-
ment, under which they can worship the Al-
mighty as may suit their taste. Indeed, I
would recommend to the Prophet to pull up
stakes and take possession of the Oregon Ter-
ritory in his own right, and establish an inde-
pendent empire. In one hundred years from
this time no nation on earth could conquer such
a people. Let not the history of David be for-
gotten.
   "If the Prophet Joseph would do this, mil-
lions would flock to his standard and join his
cause. He could then make his own laws by
the voice of revelation, and have them executed
like the act of one man.
   "With respect to myself, I would just repeat
that I am the Prophet's friend, and a friend of
his people, merely from sympathy, as my arm
has ever been lifted on the side of the perse-
cuted and oppressed.    *   *    By inserting this
communication, it is presumed that no one will
hold the Herald responsible for the sentiments
it contains; yet I have no doubt that there are
thousands of independent, liberal-minded men
in this country who think as I do.
   "Neither the Mormon Prophet nor his people
can add anything to my fortune or reputation.
I expect nothing from them; they are a poor
and industrious people, and have nothing to
give.  I am influenced in my conduct towards
them by a spirit of benevolence and mercy,
and hope the Governor and State of Illinois
will act in like manner.  It is true, I was com-
missioned in  their Legion, through the instru-
mentality of their enemy, Gen. J.C. Bennet--
an act entirely of their own, without my
agency; but I was as much their friend before
as since. The Missouri persecution fixed my
attention and commiseration on the people.
   "It must be recollected, too, that the Mormon
Prophet and his people are the most ardent
friends and promoters of literature and science.
These are elementary principles in their social
system; and this, certainly, is contrary to every
thing like despotism. I hope, therefore, *  *
that ex-Governor Boggs will withdraw his de-
mand for the Prophet, and let these poor peo-
ple rest in peace. Both he and Governor Car-
lin will feel much more at peace with them-
selves by quashing the whole proceeding."
   The following historical incident of the
Prophet's life, which I distinctly remember,
cannot fail to be of interest to many, particu-
larly the ones who witnessed the scene:
    "Saturday, April 7, 1842, the Nauvoo Legion
was on parade, by virtue of an order of the
25th of January, 1842, and was reviewed by
Lieutenant-General Joseph Smith, who com-
manded through the day. * *  The weather
was very fine. *  *  * In the afternoon the
Legion was divided into cohorts, and fought
an animated sham battle.  At the close of the
parade Gen. Smith delivered a most animating
and appropriate address, in which he remarked
that his soul was never better satisfied than on
this occasion.'  It will be remembered that on
that day Gen. John C. Bennett betrayed his
designs upon the life of the Prophet, by re-
questing him repeatedly to take part in the
sham battle, and even urging him to command
the first cohort in person, without his staff.
   Dr. Bennett's treachery, it seems, was made
known to Joseph by the Spirit, for he said: "If
General Bennett's true feelings towards me are
not made manifest to the world in a very short
time, then it may be possible that the gentle
breathings of that spirit, which whispered me
on parade that there was mischief concealed
in that sham battle, were false.  'Let John C. Ben-
nett answer at the day of judgment--Why did
you request me to command one of the cohorts,
and also to take my position without my staff,
during the sham battle on the 7th of April,
1842, where my life might have been the for-
feit, and no man have known who did the
deed?"
	Shortly after this circumstance, the true
feelings of John C. Bennett were made mani-
fest to the world, as the Prophet had predicted.
According to Joseph's own words, his time had
not yet come; for said he, "I understand my
mission. *  * God Almighty is my shield;
* * I shall not be sacrificed until my time
comes; then I shall be offered freely."
   Dr. John C. Bennett was expelled from the
Church in the following July for unvirtuous
conduct. It was well known that he was a
notorious hypocrite, and by his artful cunning,
under the cloak of religion, deceived and led
captive artless and unwary women.*
   *It should be explained to the reader that James Al-
lington Bennett and Dr. John C. Bennett were not in
the least related, except they bore the same name.
			To be continued.


94	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Minutes of a special meeting of the Manti
R.S. and Y.L.M.I.A., held Sept. 23, 1881,
Mrs. R. Wareham presiding. Singing, "Once,
more we come before our God," &c. Prayer
by Elder James Wareham. Singing. Present
on the stand, Prest. M. A. Hyde and Coun-
selors, of Sanpete Stake Relief Society; also
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith and Sister E.B.
Wells, of Salt Lake City, and Sister Amelia
H. Goldsbrough, of Nephi, President of the
Relief Society of Juab Stake.
	Sister Hyde was the first speaker; was
pleased to have the privilege of again meeting
with the sisters of Manti; also felt thankful for
the presence of our visiting sisters, and hoped
we were prepared to receive their instructions.
	Sister Wells then addressed the meeting.
Said it is the desire of each and every one of
us to do good as opportunity offers, to minister
to the sick and provide for the poor and needy;
we should not sit and hold our hands like the
fashionable women of the world, when there
are Temples to be erected, and it is highly
necessary that we should assist in their erec-
tion, if we expect to enjoy the privilege of per-
forming a work for ourselves and our dead
after their completion. Spoke very enconrag-
ingly of the labors of the sisters of Sanpete,
and also of the Lamanite sisters of Thistle
Valley. Referred to the great good which had
been accomplished by the Relief Societies, and
exhorted the mothers in regard to the proper
training of their children. Advised the sisters
always to avail themselves of the privilege con-
ferred by the elective franchise; hoped all who
were not legal voters would see the necessity
of becoming so at once. She also advised them
to inform themselves, so as to be able to vote
intelligently.
	Sister Snow Smith felt happy to meet with
the sisters of Manti, and felt thankful to see
so many of the brethren present, as she knew
that they were equally interested with us in
forwarding the work. She wished them to
know how the sisters spent their time in their
meetings, and that they had no time to be
faultfinding and gossiping, of which they were
sometimes accused. Said we should find much
more happiness in improving ourselves and oc-
cupying our time to advantage, than if we
took the opposite course. We are called upon
to make silk, to store grain, to assist the needy
and care for the sick, all of which is outside of
our household duties. We can do all of these
things if we will seek unto the Lord for
strength. Exhorted the sisters to rise and bear
testimony when occasion required it, and they
would be blessed accordingly. We should go
forward and not backward, and our reward
will be in proportion to our works. Urged


[Column 1]
the sisters to be energetic in every worthy en-
terprise. God has done His part, and He now
expects us to do ours, if we expect to realize
the blessings promised to the faithful in the
eternal worlds. Said it was the duty of the
sisters to wash and anoint the sick when re-
quested, and that they should do it with hum-
ble and prayerful hearts. The speaker advised
all the members of the Relief Society, and also
the members of the Young Ladies' Association
to take shares in the Sanpete Factory now in
contemplation. Urged the sisters to be punc-
tual in attending elections, and also to encour-
age their children to attend the meetings of
the Primary Associations, and to strive to keep
out evil influences. Closed by invoking the
blessing of Heaven on the congregation.
	Sister Goldsbrough made a few encouraging
and interesting remarks. Advised the sisters
to learn the laws of our Father in Heaven
and try to keep them.
	Prest. Peterson spoke of the prospective fac-
tory, and encouraged the sisters to take shares,
and spoke of the blessings which would arise
from it, in a temporal point of view. The
speaker considered it one step in the right di-
rection toward becoming a self-sustaining peo-
ple. Choir sang, "My home is there," &c.
Benediction by Bishop Jensen.
			S. A. PARSONS, Acting Sec'y.

SANEPETE.

	The Qurterly Conference of the Relief So-
cieties of Sanpete Stake was held at Moroni,
Sept. 16, 1881, President Mary A. P. Hyde
presiding. Devotional exercises were offered
in the usual way. On the stand were Prest.
Canute Peterson, the Bishop of Moroni and
several Bishops from the adjacent settlements,
visiting sisters, Prest. E. R. Snow Smith and
E. B. Wells, from Salt Lake City, and Amelia
H. Goldsbrough, of Nephi, and the local presi-
dency of the R. S. of this Stake. The reports
were read, showing how much good had been
done by the sisters of this Stake in supplying
the wants of the needy, and various charitable
purposes; also a liberal donation to the factory.
	President Hyde made a few remarks, ex-
pressing her gratification at having President
E. R. Smith and E. B. Wells present after so
long an absence, and her delight in hearkening
to and receiving the counsel and instruction
which might be given on the present occasion.
	Sister Eliza then addressed the assembly:
said she was much pleased to see so many
present, and that the brethren had favored us
with their presence, as she always felt stronger
when the brethren were present. Was well
pleased with the reports of the Stake; thought
the societies of Sanpete County were ahead of
all the Relief Societies in the Territory; that
the poor and sick were well cared for, which is
the first thing we should consider, and that
these societies were organized for the purpose
of helping the Bishops in attending to these
duties. Dwelt much upon the training of
children and duties of parents.
	Sister Jane Black, commonly known as
"Mother Black," who has reached the great
age of four score years, made a few remarks
on the subject of Celestial Marriage.
	Sister Wells addressed the sisters, urging
upon their minds the necessity of being ener-
getic in seri-culture and storing of grain. Re-
ferred to the signs of the times and how fast
the prophecies are being fulfilled.
	Prest. Peterson heartily endorsed all that
had been done and said, and urged the sisters
to press forward as they had done; was much
surprised at what had really been accomplished.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde thanked the sisters for
their kindness, and hoped they would be en-
abled to visit us many times yet. A number
of others spoke, expressing their willingness to
do whatever was required of them, and their

[Column 2]
satisfaction in listening to the remarks which
had been made. Conference closed by singing
"Now let us rejoice," congregation joining in.
Benediction. Conference adjourned for three
months.
			FANNY KOFFORD, Sec'y R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 95


PRIMARY FAIR.

	The Springville Primary Fair was held in
Union Hall, October 29, 1881, commencing at
10 o'clock a. m. Singing by the children,
"When Jesus dwelt on the shores of time."
Prayer by the chaplain, George Mainwaring.
Singing, "Open the door for the children."
D. C. Johnson then delivered a brief, but in-
teresting address; was pleased to see so many
things, the work of the children. Exhorted
all to improve every privilege within their
reach and learn to be industrious. The exhi-
bition was then declared open, and the visitors
were invited to view the children's work, of
which there was quite a variety; many and va-
ried were the articles made by the little folks.
The boys' work was very creditable; they had
made several kinds of wagons, hay-racks, lad-
ders, rakes, spades, forks, etc., etc., also a very
nice book-shelf, a comb-case and soap-dish, and
many other useful articles, made by boys under
fourteen years; also a variety of vegetables
which they had raised to exhibit. The little
girls' work was useful and ornamental; they
had a variety of mottoes worked on cardboard,
also quite an assortment of pincushions, mats,
tidies, quilts and embroidery, a pair of slippers
worked by a little girl, the names and ages of
the Twelve Apostles in needlework, the Lord's
Prayer printed by a little girl, wax flowers,
hair flowers, wool flowers, wreaths made from
autumn leaves, baby shoes in crochet work,
also socks and laces; knitted and fancy baskets
of almost every kind, roast chicken; bread,
butter, frosted cakes, pies, etc., all the work of
the little girls. A quilt was made by the As-
sociations, to be donated to the Temple.
	The hall was filled with visitors all day and
evening, until eight o'clock, when the exhibi-
tion was closed. Benediction by Richard Bird.


[Column 1]
JOKERS AND JOKING.

	This is not intended to be a funny article, as
one might infer by the title. It is designed to
be a serious aspect of what is almost univer-
sally conceded to be a humorous theme. Dif-
ferent people have different ways of amusing
themselves. A similarity of tastes, or a con-
geniality of spirits, begets a similarity of en-
joyment. Thus a refined inhabitant of the
Fiji Islands finds his ideal bliss in picking the
bones of some fellow cannibal who has been
captured in war, and who, by virtue of being
captured, becomes a legitimate basis of a can-
nibalistic banquet. If there be in the mind of
this elevated specimen of humanity an enjoy-
ment more beatific, it is when the Fiji Island-
ers' providence puts in his way some unwary,
but rotund and corpulent missionary, whose
well-filled limbs sizzling over a fire fill the air
with music that delights the cannibalistic ears,
and fills the air with an odor grateful to his
enlarged and distended olfactories. It was a
custom some years ago—and may be yet—to
furnish Parisian children of wealth with small
feathered biped, in order that these innocent
darlings—bless their souls!—might find pure
and heavenly enjoyment in pulling the poor
and harmless little birds to pieces. In the
palmy days of Rome, it was the delight of the
refined classes, as well as of the populace, to
witness mortal combats between gladiators, or
to see unarmed Christians battle with and be
torn to pieces by ferocious wild beasts; and
rare indeed were the instances in which the

[Column 2]
soft and timid ladies—who witnessed these fear-
ful and bloody spectacles with undisturbed se-
rentity—would raise their thumbs to the suc-
cessful combatant as a sign bespeaking mercy
for the poor, bleeding and mangled form of an
unwilliug victim to the sanctified pleasures of
that great nation.
	But coming down to our own times—the
flower of 1800 years of civilization—and we
do not find it so vastly different. If our plays
are tragedies, it affords us pleasure to be mo-
mentarily lost in the contemplation of some
realistic imitation of terrible human suffering
and wickedness; and while it awakens sympa-
thy for the unfortunate, the more it resembles
life, whether that which is attempted to be por-
trayed be bloody or brutal, the more we enjoy
it and the greater praise is bestowed upon the
individual who, for the time being, has the
power of subjugating the senses of his audience,
and forces them to entertain a deception. I
am not deprecating tragedies, nor dramas, for
I am an enthusiastic admirer of the stage; nor
do I wish to intimate that there is not profit
and sensible pleasure in theatrical exhibitions,
but I do wish to show that, however unwilling
we might be to see in life such horrible deeds
as are hinted at on the stage, nevertheless, the
very possibility of their realism and of their
bloodiness fills the mind with an irresistible
fascination, which is felt with greater keenness
the more intellectual and refined the auditor.
In other words, we are interested, pleased de-
lighted—often ecstatically—in the exhibition
of supreme human suffering. And this is one
of our most refined enjoyments. The Romans
delighted to see the tragedies executed in fact;
we are delighted to see them hinted at, and
the more we are deceived into believing them
real, the more appreciative, or amused, we be-
come.
	Again, in the comedy, or farce, extravagant
as it seems—where buffoonery and clownish-
ness are not the provokers of mirth—we enjoy
ourselves at the supposed expense of some un-
lucky wight, whose adverse fortune, while it is
highly ludicrous to those not surrounded by
his unfortunate circumstances, places him in
the most trying predicament, and causes him
not only mental anxiety, but too often absolute
bodily suffering. And yet it is amusing to us.
The more he appears to suffer the more ground
we find for laughter.
	It may be asked, and with justice, what all
this has to do with "Jokers and Joking." It
has just this much to do with it. The history
of the world—mind you, I do not claim there
are no exceptions—proves beyond the possi-
bility of a doubt, that what is and has always
been considered the most innocent of human
pastimes, is a relic of a bloodthirsty and bar-
baric spirit. Our greatest intellectual treats
are founded upon the most intense and realistic
representations of profound human sorrow;
and the light, airy and innocent laugh is, nine
times out of ten, perhaps ninety-nine times out
of a hundred, created at the expense of one
who suffers for it. The joke, whether practical
or not, is unequivocally a synonym for the dis-
comforture of the one on whom it is perpe-
trated. It has its phases—it may be mild; it
may be severe; it may even, if retaliation ever
is right, be well meant; but it is always, if
successful, provoked by placing a fellow-being
at a disadvantage, by making him a victim, a
butt, a ludicrous spectacle in the eyes of those
with whom he is acquainted in person or by
reputation. The spirit which, in the days of
Roman ascendancy, relished sights of human
butchery, the spirit which, in recent times,
would give a helpless bird to a heartless and
thoughtless child to be plucked to pieces, in
order that the diminutive specimen of human-
ity may be amused and entertained; the spirit
which incites thousands to go to hangings, and
to visit the scenes of human suffering, is the


same spirit which delights in witnessing trage-
dies well played, which laughs at comedies well
presented, and which can smile at the discom-
fiture of a fellow-being because some kind and
charitable individual has had the power to
make him, or some act of his, appear ludicrous
in the eyes of others. It is the same spirit,
though in a milder form; but, in view of the
boasted enlightenment of the age, is no more
charitable than were the performances of the
bloodthirsty Roman populace.
	It is true, there are times when an innocent
laugh may be created, but the very element of
a joke is something vicious, and the best evi-
dence that what I say is true can be found in
each heart. Persons for whom we cherish a
deep and abiding love or friendship, are per-
sons for whose feelings, unless instigated to
momentary retaliation, we entertain the utmost
consideration, and scarcely any sacrifice of
light desires is too great for such persons. We
would do nothing to annoy them. But it is an
individual for whom we have little or no friend-
ship, for whom, perhaps, we cherish a dislike–
founded on good reasons, it may be; how sel-
dom have we the forbearance, the consideration,
the charity, to forego an opportunity of belit-
tling such an individual. Not for a world 
would we inflict bodily pain; but with a sort
of fiendish delight we hold the object of our 
dislike up to ridicule, caring little or nothing
how deeply a sensitive organization be wounded;
and how ten times worse than blows would be
is the punishment we inflict, just by way of a
joke. That's all.
	Heaven save me from a joker! He is
vicious; he is not filled with a truly Christian
spirit; he cannot be refined, or he would know
how easy it is to wound a sensitive organiza-
tion, and lest some one might feel justified in
inflicting the torture on him: he would be care-
ful how he did or said that which might grieve
others. The joker is a tyrant, a boor, and
should be abolished. He is entitled to no
mercy, for he shows none; he brings with him
only a vicious spirit, which he has not the
power to control nor the sense to treat wisely.
					SIMPLY SIMON.


96	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WRITING:

	The art of writing is very ancient, and it is
interesting to note the various improvements
that have been made from time to time. It is
supposed by some that in the Bible is recorded
the first instance, Ex., 17th chap., 14th verse:
"And the Lord said unto Moses, 'Write this
for a memorial in a book.'" And also, Ex.,
24th chap.: "And Moses wrote all the words
of the Lord." But Moroni, in the Book of
Mormon, gives an account of the people of Ja-
red, which he copied "from the twenty and
four plates which were found by the people of
Limhi, which is called the Book of Ether."
The first part of the record "speaks concern-
ing the creation of the world, and also of Adam,
and an account from that time even to the
great tower." (Page 516.) The records also
give an account of the people from the tower
till they were destroyed, about 600 years B. C.
The writer of the record was Ether, a descend-
ant of Jared, who came from the tower of
Babel with his brother and others. Jesus
Christ appeared to the brother of Jared, and
told him to write and seal the things he saw
and heard: "And the Lord said unto him, write
these things and seal them up, and I will show
them in mine own due time unto the children
of men."
	This interview took place a few years after
leaving the tower, which they left at the time
the language was confounded, about 2447 years
B. C., and 426 years before Abraham died;
consequently, the brother of Jared probably
wrote 676 years before Moses, as we do not

[Column 2]
know how long it was after leaving the tower
that Jared's brother wrote, or how old Moses
was when he wrote.
	I suppose the next piece of ancient writing
is The Book of Abraham, purporting to have
been written by his own hand on papyrus, and
translated by Joseph Smith; it was found in
the Catacombs of Egypt. Abraham died 1821
years B. C., and Moses was born 1571 years
B. C., so the former must have written at least
250 years prior to the latter.
	The records of the Nephites were engraved
on plates which had the appearance of gold,
and were hid about A. D. 420; the Lamanites,
the present Indians, were quite degraded then,
and if they practised the art at that time, no
doubt lost it soon afterwards.
	The pen is mentioned in the Bible several
times: once in Job, xix, 23, 24: "Oh, that my
words were now written! oh, that they were
printed in a book! That they were graven
with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever!"
	Many different materials have been used to
write upon; the Egyptians prepared a rush
called papyrus; they wrote upon it with reeds.
Upon waxen tablets they used an iron style.
	Quills were in general use before the inven-
tion of the steel pen, in 1825, by Mr. James
Perry, of Manchester, England.
	Vellum is yet used for writing deeds upon.
Paper made of linen rags was used in England
in 1417.
	Books were scarce till printing was invented.
The first printed book was published in 1462,
and the first newspaper was printed in London
in 1622.
	By writing our thoughts, actions and discov-
eries are committed to paper and preserved for
the benefit of future ages. Had it not been
for this art, our knowledge of the history of
the world would be very meagre and not at all
reliable, as it would be impossible to rehearse
a circumstance from generation to generation
and keep it correct; whereas, a written copy of
a statement would be as coreect in future ages
as at the time of writing.
	Writing is an art that has the direct appro-
bation of Heaven, from being practised by
heavenly beings, for the tables containing the
Ten Commandments were made by God, "and
the writing was the writing of God graven
upon the tables;" and in the 8th chapter of St.
John we read: "But Jesus stooped down, and
with His finger wrote on the ground, as though
He heard them not." "And again He stooped
down and wrote on the ground."
						ANN FELLOWS.


FAREWELL PARTY.

	On Thursday, November 3, the Sisters of
Tooele had a very pleasant party, to pay their
farewell respects to Sister Rebecca Williams,
President of the Primary Association, who is
going to move to Malad to live with her chil-
dren. The party was held at the residence of
Sister Jeanette Delamare. President of the Re-
lief Society. There were present the Bishop
and Counselors and Brother Delamare, and all
the officers and teachers of the Relief Society,
about twenty-seven in number. Our party
commenced with singing and prayer, after
which all the sisters expressed their good feel-
ings and respect for Sister Williams. She
was presented with a gold ring and a very
nice quilt, and Sister Emily Warburton was
also presented with a gold ring, as tokens of
respect for their faithful labors and good works.
Sister Warburton has been our Secretary ever
since the organization of the Relief Society.
After all had expressed their good wishes, the
party sat down to a bounteous repast, and
spent the evening in singing the songs of Zion
and in social intercourse. All went as pleasant
as a marriage feast, and all present felt it was
a time not to be forgotten.
					ANN TATE, Cor. Sec'y.


NOTICE.
HAVING PROCURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE
cimens, etc., I am now prepared to give instructions
in the art of Obstetrics and other branches connected there-
with. My class will open Nov. 1st, 1881. Those wishing to
join this class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send east for books. Terms: Tuition, [-]0
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
					E. R. SHIPP, M. D., Salt Lake City.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z. C. M. I.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe i n found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.

Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER'S: COMMISSION STORE.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
BEMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
[S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

