VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1881.	No. 2.


[Column 1]
REMINISCENCES.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

Memory like music, steals upon the ear,
And wraps us in the visions of the past.

Silence oft is eloquence! and while the
Lip moves not, the heart and soul are bowed
In worship at a consecrated shrine,
Composed of admiration and respect.
Memory holding still her mystic reign,
And gathering the Past into her sto[--]
Till, culminating at a point, the door
Of language is unsealed, and tries to tell
The garnered thoughts, long there as relics lain;
Its rosary too is sacred hold, on which
Are daily counted well-remembered,
Scenes and forms, gestures, actions, words and looks,
Making palpable ONE who is not dead,
But passed behind the Veil o'ershadowing
Mortal Vision, mortal touch, or hearing!

June! Yes June, the glorious, regal month,
When earth was strewn with flowers, and the sun.
Shone forth in full effulgence, bright and warm,
And Spring put on her crown and courtly robe—
A robe in all the varied colors gay;
With wreaths of beauteous flowers on her head,
And gems of morning dew studding each one;
In all the rich profusion June displays!
And in her grand and queenly step went forth,
And stretching out her beauteous arms received
Within their [---] hold a baby boy
Just struggling into life! She caught him up,
And printed on his cheek a zephyr kiss;
And said her presence never should depart
From out the atmosphere surrounding him!
Even that the June should be infused
Within his infant soul in coming life!
She'd throw her genial influence around
His earthly path, and smile on him for aye!
His name should indicate immortal youth,
And tho on earth his years should many be,
He still, through all, should be forever YOUNG!
That age should beautify, and not destroy,
That Time should have the power to renovate,
His eye should not be dim, nor hair turn grey,
His mind, illum'd and clear should ever be:
That wives, and children, should from him receive
The patent brand that made them; ever YOUNG!
And that his name should far and wide be great,
Around the circumnavigated globe!
That friends in truth and love, should round him cling,
And even foes should feel the mystic charm,
And serpents, dumb, before the charmer be!
And One, above cadorsed His handmaid's words,
And sealed them with Jehovah's signet ring.

And forth he went upon the earth, and met
A spirit even mightier than his own!
They looked into each other's eyes and saw,
They clasped each other's hand and knew,
That God to them a mission on this earth
Had pre-ordained, and given them to bear
To every nation, every land and clime!
And hence, they laid the rudimental plan,
And carried out the angel's words to them!
And organized Christ's Church on earth,
No more—no, nevermore to be thrown down!
This history all have read—by practise know.
Time rushes on with almost noiseless stream;
And bears us on the bosom of its wave:
Long years have passed—that treasured one is gone!
The June has come and gone, and come again,
And Memory rises from her thousand cells,
And in phantasma brings the past once more
Like Banquo's Ghosts before the peering mind.
And we [--] thought live o'er the times of old,
And [---] the future [---]
And, REVELATION slightly draws the veil,
And Faith, and Hope, and Love we do behold!

[Column 2]
Come forth to bless, and comfort, and sustain
Those left on earth, oft dreaming on the past;
Waiting reunion in the heaven above,
With all those lost on earth—and gone before!
	June 1, 1881.


[Column 1]
CLOSING PARAGRAPH OF LIFE IN-
CIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Every promise made to my father concern-
ing himself and family were realized during
his absence. He with his brethren arrived in
Kirtland May 22nd, 1838, having been absent
eleven months and nine days. He says, "I
found my family in good health, and as com-
fortably situated as I could expect; our joy was
mutual. The Saints likewise welcomed us
home, for which I felt thankful to my heavenly
Father.
	But my journey was not yet ended; for soon
after my arrival in Kirtland, I commenced
making preparations to move my family to the
State of Missouri, where brother Joseph and the
greater part of the authorities of the Church,
and almost all the members who had any faith
in Mormonism had already removed. The
cause of their removal to the West was the
persecutions to which they were subject in
Kirtland. Most of the brethren who yet re-
sided there, although very kind and affectionate,
were weak in the faith, in consequence of trials
and temptations. This caused us to grieve ex-
ceedingly and we resolved to cheer them up as
much as we possibly could. We preached in
the House of the Lord a few times, recounted
our travels, and the great success which at-
tended our labors; also the marvellous work
which the Lord had commenced in England;
they began to take courage, their confidence
increased, their faith was strengthened, and
they again realized the blessings of Jehovah."
	"About the first of July I commenced my
journey with my family accompanied by
Elder Orson, Hyde, Erastus Snow and
Winslow Farr, two brothers by the name
of Badger, with their families, and the Widow
Beeman and her two daughters, Artemissa
and Louisa, and Sarah Millekin num-
bering to about forty souls. We took
wagons to Wellsville, on the Ohio river, about
130 miles, then took steamboat to St. Louis,
also from thence to Richmond on the Missouri
river." Before we arrived at St. Louis, we
were nearly all sick from the intense heat of
the weather, and having to drink water from
the muddy Missouri they took every op-
portunity when the boat stopt, to wood up, to
go for clear water, which the boat hands had
warned them against, telling them it would
make us sick. The cabin passengers had ice to
use with it but we were not able to indulge in
the luxury. The boat would often start before
the brethren could get back but when they
came running and shouting with their pails of
water they would go ashore and take them in
and roar with laughter at their ludricous ap-
pearance more especially Brother Hyde who
was very fleshy.
	The water being very low the boat was con-
stantly running upon sandbars which made
the journey very tedious.
	Lyman E. Johnson, Sister Hyde's brother
who had formerly been one of the Twelve
Apostles, was living in Richmond and he or-
dered a dinner at the Hotel for all of his old

[Column 2]
friends, and treated us with every kindness—
Brother Hyde and family remained there sev-
eral days. Wagons were procured there to
take us to Far West, where we arrived on the
25th of July.
	The manners and customs of the Western
people and many things there were quite dif-
ferent from any thing I had ever seen or heard
of. The first peculiarity that I recollect was
when we first landed in the West. Some or-
ange girls came on to the boat and when the
price of them was asked and they began talk-
ing of Bits and Picayunes how we stared, it was
all "Dutch" to us, and we had to get an inter-
preter. We stopt one night on the road from
Riehmond where they had negroes and it was
quite a novelty to hear them call the cows
"Sook Cherry" etc., and see them tote, as they
called it, the pails or tubs of milk on their
heads and also water, a thing I had never seen
before. Pails with bails was something un-
known among them.
	The meeting between my father and the Pro-
phet and others of his brethren was a happy
one some of whom were moved to tears when
they took each other by the hand. Father was
very weak and continued feeble for some time. 
He writes in his Journal.—"Sunday July 29th,
I met Joseph, Sidney and Hyrum. on the pub-
lic Square, as they started for Adam-ondi-
ahman, Joseph repuested me to preach to the
Saints and give them a history of my mission,
saying it would revive their spirits and do them
good, which I did, although I was hardly ableto stand. I related many things respecting my
mission and travels, which were gladly received
by them, whose hearts were cheered by the re-
cital, while many of the Elders were stirred up
to diligence and expressed a great desire to
accompany me when I should return to Eng-
land."
	Having continued longer than I anticipated
I shall now close Life Incidents, but not before
expressing the gratitude I feel for the privilege
of belonging to the unpopular sect called
"Mormons." I never saw the time that I felt
more joyful and more willing to bear the stigmas
which are heaped upon us than I am to-day. 
Jesus and his Apostles and Saints were also
hated, and they suffered a great deal more than
the Latter-day Saints, and were finally des-
troyed from off the earth, but we have no fears
of a similar fate, for we know that God has set
his hand for the second time and that He
will live to fulfil his purposes, and though
hundreds may apostatize and join our enemies,
they will accomplish nothing but their own
ruin, for apostates are looked down upon by
the Gentiles and despised, as traitors always are. 
The wicked only use them as tools to overthrow
the work of the Almighty. It is only those
who are weak in the faith that fear and tremble.
"The wicked flee when no man pursueth," and
they judge the Latter-day Saints by themselves.
The bitterness that is manifested by the world
towards this people is the greatest proof to me
that this is the true Gospel of Jesus Christ. If
my homely description of scenes and incidents
among the Saints prove beneficial to others I
will feel amply rewarded and can say as the
Poet,

"If one soul improve I have not lived in vain."


A WOMAN whose ruling passion is not vanity
is superior to any man of equal capacity.
Lavater.


10	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

				CONTINUED.
	In our last we left Sister Eliza at the Sea of
Galilee with a bunch of hyssop in her hand,
given her by the young Jewess. The next day
some of the party with whom she was travel-
ing went by boat across the Jordan, while she,
with the others, went on horseback to the place
of destination, about two hours' ride along the
seashore, passing the ruins of Magdala, said to
be the place where Mary Magdalene formerly
lived, arriving nearly four hours ahead of those
who went in the boat. Meantime, Sister Eliza
was enjoying the interval gathering shells, or
pebbles, by the seashore. "Here the snow-
crowned Mount Hermon" was in sight, and
the travelers "ascended to the height of five
thousand feet," over rough passes and trails,
rocks smooth as glass in some places; but the
party rode animals trained to keep their foot-
ing. Sister Eliza says though she had to be
all the time on the watch, she was much
amused. Before reaching Damascus, for a long
distance "the way was lined on each side with
grape vines, seemingly well cultivated." The
noise of the dogs in the city of Damascus is
very annoying, and it is said there are forty
thousand of them in the city. Here, on Sun-
day, the Sacrament was administered by the
brethren. Monday President Smith and party
called upon the sub-American Consul, who
treated them with great courtesy, offering each
of them coffee in a tiny cup, as a national
token of friendship, which courtesy obliged
them to accept. The Consular Agent could
converse some in the English language, and is
not a Mahommedan. He enquired ot Pres.
George A. Smith concerning the "Mormon"
faith, and being told they believed in the pa-
triarchal order of marriage, informed him that
the Mahommedans could marry four wives and
buy as many as they pleased. The Turks, he
said, would not allow women to vote as "Mor-
mons" did, it would be "placing them too
nearly on an equality with men."
	"March 19," Sister Eliza says, "we left the
old city of Scriptural celebrity—the scene of
many former striking incidents, particularly
that of the miraculous conversion of Paul, and
having walked on the 'Street called Straight'
(which, judging from the gate leading into it,
was much broader formerly than now), with
its one hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants,
without shedding any tears of regret. Now,
instead of narrow trails, we travel on the
broad, smooth 'diligence road,' through a nar-
row gorge between high, rocky ridges, over-
looking narrow strips of fertility along the
beautiful Abana river, which skirts the almost
perpendicular bluffs for many miles." The
party camped at a little village called Dimas.
Sister Eliza was rather amused the next morn-
ing, while the mules were being packed, to
watch "numerous goat herds starting off to the
mountains, and especially as numbers of the
goats issued from the doors of the houses—the
same doors the men, women and children came
through, and were intermingled as they passed
out. The next day passed through an exten-
sive and fertile valley, cultivated, and seem-
ingly occupied by civilized people, with the
most charming "landscape scenery." The
party camped for the night in full view of "the
celebrated mountains of Lebanon, covered with
snow." This range the lady says instinctively
struck her with admiration and sublime awe.
"I was so captivated with the bold, majestic
scenery of nature exhibited in an interminable
variety of forms, before, behind, all around
me, that many times I stopped my horse, that
I might feast my eyes on the surrounding beau-
ties of nature—the almost uncultivated 'Glory

[Column 2]of Lebanon.' " The road, the lady tells us
was winding and zigzag, and the vegetation,
shrubbery, shade trees and flowers in full bloom
were a marked contrast to the white limestone
that paved the road. All these descriptions of
places by Sister Eliza are exceedingly vivid,
and one may feel, in reading her Book of Trav-
els, almost conveyed to the spot and enjoying
the picture, proving that her power of descrip-
tive delineation is admirable.
	About ten miles before reaching Beyrout,
the road is lined on both sides with fields of
mulberry trees. The city of Beyrout has of
late superseded Damascus in the manufacture
of silk. At this place there was a public dem-
onstration in favor of a German Prince just
entering the city, and it was quite interesting
for the "Mormon" party, who really seemed to
attract the most attention of the two. The
two ladies, Sister Eliza and Miss Clara Little,
daughter of Mayor Little of Salt Lake City,
who was one of the tourists, were called upon
by multitudes of ladies, some of them urging
them to accompany them to their homes. They
called at a few places, and found them, though
very simple homes, very neat.
	On the 22d of March the tourists bade adieu
to tent life, mounted their horses and rode to
the hotel. On the 25th embarked on the
Steamer Mars, of the Austrian Lloyd line, en-
route for Constantinople. Sister Eliza had
been, at her somewhat advanced time of life,
enduring "twenty-nine days of tent life, and
twenty-one of riding on horseback." While
remembering she was in her seventieth year,
one cannot help thinking she was a woman of
fortitude and remarkable powers of endurance.
She arrived at Constantinople on the first of
April. On the way there passed the island of
Cyprus, and had a view of Mount Parnassus,
the ancient site of the Temple of Venus, also
Rhodes Cos and Scio—the last named is now
the scene of devastation frem the recent terri-
ble earthquakes. They also passed Samos, the
birthplace of Pythagoras, and long the resi-
dence of Herodotus. The Steamer anchored
at Smyrna, of Bible celebrity. At Constanti-
nople she visited all the attractions, and they
are numerous; had a fine view of the exterior
of the Sultan's palace, which stands on the
shore of the Bosphorus. This city, it is well
known, is beautified with mosques, domes and
minarets in abundance, and thousands of luxu-
riant, tall cypress trees, it being a Moslem cus-
tom to plant one of these trees at the birth
and death of a child.
	After leaving Constantinople, on deck one
has a full view (on the Asiatic side) of the
immense barracks used for a hospital in the
Crimean war, where Miss Florence Nightingale
made herself famous, world-wide, by her gen-
erous services as a nurse.
	The Steamer cast anchor in front of the
Grecian Piræus, and the party rowed ashore,
then rode five miles to Athens, once the seat of
learning and renown, famous for its past great-
ness. Here Sister Eliza roamed about among
the grand and interesting ruins, and with such
active imaginative powers as she possesses, she
no doubt almost saw this ancient classical seat
of wealth, magnificence and splendor in its
original beauty. On visiting 'Mars Hall' Sis-
ter Eliza might have fancied the Apostle Paul
occupying the position, boldly addressing his
idolatroas hearers, surrounded by the various
brilliant temples dedicated to these heathen
gods of man's device. In Athens the tourists
took tea with Mr. Francis, the American Min-
ister, and his amiable and accomplished wife;
they also met there the American Consul Gen-
eral to Constantinople; all were social and
pleasant. Another celebrity whom the party
had the opportunity of seeing there was George
I, King of Greece, in plain citizen costume.
	From Athens, the tourists went to Trieste,

[Column 3]
Austria, by steamer, thence to Verona, and on
to Munich, in Bavaria.
	At Munich Sister Eliza visited several
schools with Kindergartens for the little ones,
who have in this department the most perfect
training. Munich is the birthplace of Mrs.
Paul A. Schettler of this city, at that time she
was at home on a visit and through the courtesy
and kindmess of her brother Mr. Geirisch who
was in "His Majesty's service and confidence"
the party were assisted in gaining admittance
to places of special interest. They were con-
ducted through the King's Palace and shown
apartments not open to general visitors. Some
of the rooms the lady tells us represented the
sixteenth century, others a later date, and some
of the present style of architecture. In this
Bavarian palace there are magnificent brocaded
window curtains of the most beautiful colors
made wholly of glass. One room had its four
walls hung with portraits of ladies called the
"beauties of Munich." It happened to be a very
favorable time for sight-seeing as prepara-
tions were being made for the wedding of the
Prince of Bavaria and the Princess of Austria
and members of the Austrian Court. On the
afternoon of the 28th, these royal people were
expected and all Munich must see them. It
was judged there were from forty to fifty thous-
and people on the streets and sidewalks, eager
to get a glimpse of the pageantry of royalty.
From Munich the party went to Vienna. Here
Sister Eliza says, "by ascending some four
hundred and twenty steps in the spire of St.
Stephen's Church; we had a magnificent view
of the city and surroundings, including the
unrivaled Palace of the Exposition, or World's
Fair which had just then been opened, though
its arrangements were not nearly completed.


GEORGE ELIOT'S FACE.

	The face was one of a group of four, not all
equally like each other, but all of the same
spiritual family, and with a curious interde-
pendence of likeness. These four are Dante,
Savonaola, Cardinal Newman and herself.
We only know one such other group, and that
consisting of three only. It is that formed of
the traditional head of Christ (the well-known
profile on a coin), Shakespeare, and St. Igna-
tius Loyola. In the group of which George
Eliot was one, there is the same straight wall
of brow; the droop of the powerful nose; mo-
bile lips, touched with strong passion kept reso-
lutely under control; a square jaw, which
would make the face stern were it not counter-
acted by the sweet smile of lips and eye. We
can hardly hope that posterity will ever know
her from likenesses as those who had the honor
of her acquaintance knew her in life. Only
some world's artist could hand her down as
she lived, as Bellini has handed down the doge
whom we all know so well on the walls of the
national gallery. The two or three portraits
that exist, though valuable, give but a very
imperfect presentment. The mere shape of the
head would scarcely be possible to represent it
without giving the idea of disproportion to the
frame, of which no one ever thought for a mo-
ment, when they saw her, although it was a
surprise, when she stood up, to see that, after
all, she was but a little, fragile woman who
bore this weight of brow and brain.—C. Ke-
gan Paul, in Harper's for May.


WOMEN DOCTORS IN OLDEN TIMES.—It is
said there is in the British Museum an illumi-
nated manuscript, bearing the date of 1470,
which illustrates the history of Tobit. One of
the scenes represents a chamber wherein the
old Israelite is lying blind and sick upon his
couch, while his wife Anna sits by the fire pre-
paring medicine for him, with an open book by
her side.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 11


A SONG OF SUMMER.

The summer has come, with its sunshiny hours,
	The fields in their verdure are smiling and gay;
The air is perfumed with the breath of the flow'rs,
	As the soft, wooing breezes in gentleness play.
The violets blossom in low, meadows green,
	And daisies are nodding to us as we pass,
The buttercups, glowing like gold in its sheen,
	Are shining like stars among tangled grass.
Away to the hills for a moment we'll stray,
	Where wild flowers offer their tribute so sweet;
The hedges are blooming along the rough way,
	And red clover blushing under our feet.

Ah! here let us pause, and drink in our fill
	From Nature's clear fountains, so calm and so deep;
Till twilight is hanging o'er valley and hill,
	The world, as it were, enchanting to sleep.
List to the nightingale's song in the wood,
	Waking sweet mem'ries of "love's golden dream;"
The dear ones departed, the tender and good,
	The joys and the sorrows of life are his theme.

Yes, the nightingale's notes, so clear and so high,
	Wake to life all emotion that's ling'ring still;
E'en the fountains of love, we may have thought dry
	To the passion of music, instinctively thrill.
The freshness of June is within us once more,
	We're clasping again the fond and the true;
The present is ours—a bright future before—
	The friendships of life, then let us renew.
Sing on, thou brave songster of fair, rosy June,
	Thy voice has a charm sweet peace to impart;
To the passionate chords of the soul 'tis attune,
	And it strengthens and cheers the weary of heart.

The silvery moon has kissed the warm hills,
	With beauty she's clothing the midsummer night,
But sees her sweet face in the sparkling rills,
	And lingers, embracing the earth with delight.

The charm of the summer, so silent and grand,
	Pervading all nature with consummate skill,
Shows plainly the touch of a great Master-hand,
	Who fashioned the universe unto His will.

And while we adore this infinite power,
	That wakened to life and to motion the earth,
And called into being each bird, tree and flower;
	And gave to creation this exquisite birth—
Oh, when, blessed Father, shall we know the truth,
	The mystery deep that envelops the whole?
Whence cometh this yearning for immortal youth,
	This love for the beautiful, thrilling the soul?
'Tis a heritage, surely, "Our Father" has given,
	Which links us unseen to a happier sphere;
A faint recollection of what was in heaven,
	That clings to us ever while lingering here.
											EMILE.


[Column 1]

D'ISRAELI.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

		"Can that man be dead
	Whose spiritual influence is upon his kind?
	He ever lives in glory, and his speaking dust
	Has more of life than half his breathing moulds."
		L. E. L.
	I feel it would be casting insidious reflections
upon my readers, were I to attempt an apology
for a few more words upon the great man just
departed; bear with me, then, while I give my
pen-ultimate upon this engrossing subject.
	The greatest among the greatest nations of
the earth are speaking with one voice in rich
appreciation of his transcendent abilities and
his pure patriotism; and every pulpit, from
Canon Farar in Westminster Abbey, and
throughout London and the Provinces, and
foreign countries also, have each and all sent
forth the voice of sympathy and eulogy, regret
and commendation of him, who was a Palla-
dium in the Cabinet of England; and sister
nations felt the power and reflection of his
genius! He was ever a devoted servant to his
sovereign and his country, "Sans peur et sans
reproche." He worked through long years of
mental travail, until he had attained the goal
his prophetic eye had seen afar off, even in his
early youth—until he stood at the right hand

[Column 2]

of the sovereign, her acknowledged and appre-
ciated friend and counselor—the restorer of the
nation to the proud rank from which she had
fallen by the false policy of those who had pre-
ceded him. Bismarck, the great, the fastidious, 
the exacting Bismarck, took him into his heart
and gave him in that a loving and eternal
niche. Children loved him, women were his
devoted and efficient friends, and a mighty
galaxy of great, grand men were his brothers
on the stage of action; he had the art of mak-
ing "even his enemies to be at peace" with him.
In his illness and his death only one feeling
was apparent, which was made up of love, ad-
miration, sympathy and regret! When the
curtain fell on the grand actor, the silence of
grief alone spoke the absorbing feeling of all;
every tongue was silent, or spoke only the
words of eulogy and love!
	Does not this tell of nobility of soul? May
not we, as a people, with our boasted superiority
of religion over the world, take a lesson of how
to treat our great and noble dead, whose lives
were spent in our service?
	The Queen and royal family of England
must have risen in the estimation of all think-
ing people, in seeing them become "kith and
kin" in a loving brotherhood and sisterhood
with a mourning nation, showing it forth by
every demonstration of love and respect during
the sickness of the treasured one, and then
reverently following the remains to their hum-
ble resting place, and laying with their own
hands the wreaths of choicest flowers, inscribed
with each one's own handwriting; even the
Queen employed no secretary, but with her
own hand wrote on the card attached to the
wreath she presented words that her own heart
dictated. Such deeds are worthy of all imita-
tion.
	The country and the Queen were desirous
he should rest in Westminster Abbey, but when
the Will was opened it was found expressly or-
dered that he should be interred at his beloved
Hughenden, by the side of his wife, to whom
he had ever been most devotedly attached;
and here it would be apropos to allude to one
ever prominent feature in his character, it is
conspicuous in all his writings; I refer to his
chaste, almost reverent appreciation of woman!
He attributes to her that unseen, unsleeping
influence that makes her a power, often even
behind the throne; and he ever portrays this
power for good, never for evil! and even her
foibles and frivolities he turns to account, in-
corporating them in the Mosaic, and making
them elaborate and beautify it. In no instance
do you ever meet sarcasm or inuendo; he
was also a stauuch advocate for woman suf-
frage.
	It was through his powerful voice and in-
fluence, that the country was redeemed from its
imbecile vandalism in omitting to raise a public
monument to the author of "Childe Harold's
Pilgrimage"—in 1875 Lord Beaconsfield stood
forth as the determined advocate of a public
monument for Lord Byron—it was commenced
forthwith, and the Queen at once offered a site
for it in Hamilton Gardens, which is an enclo-
sure railed in within Hyde Park, London, thus
endorsing the movement and conjointly with
him removing the just reproach of foreigners
in regard to the apparent neglect of Byron's
memory by his own countrymen. And this
reminds us of a long and most eloquent speech
of Mr. Gladstone in the House of Lords, sec-
onding the motion of Earl Granville that an
address be presented to Her Majesty, entreat-
ing her to give directions for a monument to be
erected in Westminster Abbey to the Earl of
Beaconsfield. This address is so admirable it
should be printed in pamphlet form. Sir Staf-
ford Northcote, who responded to it, remarked
regarding it: "We feel that a monument of a
higher character than any that could be carved
in marble has been already erected to Lord

[Column 3]

Beaconsfield in the speech we have heard this
evening! That speech has been nobly ex-
pressed and still more it has been nobly con-
ceived!"

	Here follow a few of the floral testimonials
placed on the coffin of the one so mourned:
	"The Queen had testified her regret and es-
teem in many ways, and among others by send-
ing a wreath of wild flowers, primroses plucked
in the Isle of Wight, and such as he delighted
to see blooming on the grassy banks of Hughen-
den Park. On a card affixed to this wreath
was written, in her Majesty's own handwriting, 
'His favorite flowers; from Osborne, a tribute
of affection and regret from Queen Victoria.'
The wreath was placed on the coffin by Prince
Leopold on behalf of her Majesty. The flow-
ers had been gathered that morning in the
beautiful lawns of Osborne, and the wreath
was sent by special messenger. It seemed
wasteful to condemn these fair and perishable
flowers to fade unseen in the dark vault, and
after the burial they were brought out again
and hung upon the railings of the tomb, where
all the evening throngs of country people col-
lected and had the mournful satisfaction of
contemplating the Queen's last gift to her de-
voted servant. Her Majesty gave also another
wreath, but this one of everlasting flowers and
bay leaves. On the ends of the white satin
bow with which this wreath was tied were a 
few words embroidered in gold—on one, 'From
Queen Victoria;' on the other, 'A mark of
true affection, friendship and regret.' The
Prince of Wales was personally present at the
funeral, and placed with his own hands upon
the coffin two wreaths of white roses and ca-
melias, saying as he did so, 'This is from my-
self, and this from the Princess of Wales.' The
Prince of Wales' wreath bore the inscription,
'From his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales
—a tribute of friendship and affection,' and
the writing was that of his Royal Highness.
The Duke of Connaught, who strode beside his
Royal brothers in the procession, laid also, just
before it started, a wreath upon the coffin from
the Duchess of Connaught, on which a few
violets showed their scented petals, emblemati-
cal of the soul, among white camelias and eu-
charis. It bore the inscription, 'A token of
regret and respect from her Royal Highness
the Duchess of Connaught.' Prince Leopold
offered on his own part a wreath bearing the
words, 'A mark of friendship and respect from
Leopold.' Also upon the coffin there was laid
an immortelle of pure white flowers, inscribed,
'A mark of respect from Beatrice.' Other
wreaths from the royal family were—one which
bore a card on which the words were written, 
'A mark of esteem from her Royal Highness
the Duchess of Cambridge;' a wreath from
Prince and Princess Christian, inscribed, 'A
token of deepest respect, gratitude and affec-
tion from Prince and Princess Christian;' from
the Duke and Duchess of Teck, marked, 'A
last tribute of affection, regret and admiration
from Mary Adelaide.' The Baron von Pawel
Rammingen attended the funeral and brought
a wreath from the Princess Frederica."


THE Khedive of Egypt is interested in the
education of women, and is about to build in
Cairo, at his own expense, a school for the in-
struction of girls of the higher classes.
	"CONKLING and Platt have behaved like two
boys who refused to go to a picnic, becanse
their superiors thought it best for one to hold
the lines and the other the whip. They wanted
to go 'dreadfully,' but wanted worse to be
stubborn." The editor of "The Colorado Ante-
lope" says, "This fight is nothing to us, but we
cannot help thinking that if women ever be-
have as ridiculously, there is one consolation—
men have set us a variety of examples, to say
the least."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELL,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 15, 1881.


[Column 1]

WHAT THEY SAY ABOUT UTAH.

	Everybody's talking of Utah! The "Mormon"
question is sorely agitating the public mind.
	The pulpit, the platform and the press are each
pouring forth volumes upon the subject until a
very ocean of bitterness, whose waves run moun-
tain high, seems to have flooded the hearts of
the people. Who is there to pour oil upon the
troubled waters? Who will speak a good word
for those "despised, outcast exiles?" Who dares
open their mouth, or even take up their pen in
defense of a few—a handful of people gathered
into the fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains for
protection against their foes; against the mobs
of a country which invites all nations to its
standard, where waves the glorious flag of liberty.
	Societies are being organized by different re-
ligious bodies, beseeching Congress, and his
Excellency the President of this great common-
wealth, to break down, root up and destroy this
"terribly iniquity," "twin brother of slavery,"
which "so afflicts this great nation." The "Mor-
mons are fast becoming a power in the land,"
ere long they will "creep into the Union," and
"Utah will become a State" and "sanction poly-
gamy." How dreadful it would be in their
eyes, for the "Mormons" to have a spot of earth
to dwell upon in peace; after they had sought
out and cultivated the desert, half-fed and half-
clad, exiled from their home and country,
banished with women and children, to an
unknown, unexplored region, where the Indians
and wild beasts held sole dominion.
	Woman, the "fair sex," whose benevolence
and charity, and whose sympathy for the un-
fortunate has ever been proverbial, are organized
into societies "to protest against the Mormons
and their institutions;" and they send abroad
their Testimonials, their Letters and Circulars,
setting forth the "degraded condition of Mormon
wives and Mormon children." Many who sit by
the hearthstone in their far off homes in igno-
rant innocence of this people, or their affairs, are
horrified to hear these sensational stories of
"Life Among the Mormons;" and all their in-
dignation is aroused to think such
corruption should exist, away off in
Utah, thousands of miles from them, and
they are ready to subscribe to any set of resolu-
tions, got up by those who carry on the crusade,
and to give of their means to help in the endeav-
or to suppress "Mormonism," thinking there-
by to do God service.
	Some of these wiseacres proclaim that "poly-
gamy destroys the home," it "sa[-]s the founda-
tion of social life," the basis of true govern-
ment and of prosperity and happiness. Does
the outside world know much about this? Can
they speak intelligently on this subject? A few
perhaps who are here know something by look-
ing on with jaundiced eyes, but there
are many who are in total darkness in

[Column 2]

regard to the matter. The "Mormons" might
boast if they would, of their happy homes in
the valleys of the mountains. Homes which
their own thrift and industry have created.
Even strangers who have come here prejudiced,
have acknowledged that "a spirit of peace
brooded over the place," such as they never felt
elsewhere. Does this bespeak contention and
strife in the family circle? No, it is due to the 
harmony of social relations and domestic institu-
tions, and the strong band of union which char-
acterizes the whole people, and is the outgrowth
of the very principles which the world condemn.
	Family life after the patriarchal order is
something approaching the sublime. It is
broad, liberal, expansive and gives the same
tone to the inmates of the home circle.
	The ladies engaged in the crusade against po-
lygamy characterize the condition of plural wife-
hood, concubinage, and speak of it, and of them,
to the world in the most reproachful terms pos-
sible. The Scripture says: "By their fruits ye
shall know them." In these mountain vales, 
and through the system of marriage the world
so loudly condemns, there has grown up a race
of the most perfectly developed young men and
women any country can produce. Healthy,
strong and vigorous in mind and body, with a 
knowledge of the principles of life and health,
and of their own mission upon the earth, which
no other class of people in the present day so
thoroughly comprehend.
	The fruits of this method of life will be more
apparent in the next generation than even in
this Social science will yet be glad to deal with
this subject, in the light of reason and common
sense.
	The women who are interested in this great
Latter-day work are laboring earnestly and faith-
fully in an organized capacity, to develop all the
talents which they possess mentally, morally
and spiritually; and to lay the foundation for the
prolongation of human life. They teach and in-
struct each other and their children; and ex-
pound doctrine and precept, and are in the best
sense of the word home missionaries. They are
more very much more sorry for their sisters in
the world, who are seeking to pull down and de-
stroy their institutions, and heap shame and ob-
loquy upon them and their offspring, than it is
possible for them to be for these "poor, deluded
Mormon women," and certainly the "Mormon"
sisters have no desire to injure or persecute
them, but would do them good all the day long,
and have, whenever brought in contact with
them, sought to maintain the most harmonious
relations, and perfect courtesy. In the mean-
time they do protest against the misrepresenta-
tions that are continually being sent abroad con-
cerning their domestic and social relations. The
Latter-day Saint women have no time, nor have
they the inclination to examine into the home
life of their Gentile neighbors, but occasionally,
some of these Gentile ladies, whose lives have
not been wholly free from sorrow, open their
hearts to a "Mormon" woman, perchance a plu-
ral wife, and portray the social system that is
known in Gotham as "modern civilization." It
is ill befitting this class of women to cry out
against "the great ulcer of Polygamy," especial-
ly when it is well known that women in this
Church accept celestial, or plural marriage as a
divine revelation from heaven, given to benfit
and elevate the human family, and receive it in
their hearts and in their lives as a sacred coven-
ant of marriage for time and for all eternity.
"Mormon" women embrace this principle with
the same purity of motive and sincerity of pur-
pose that they do the principle of baptism
for the remission of sins, or baptism for the
dead, or any other principle given to exalt the 
human family.


INEERESTING CONFERENCE.

	The Ladies' Conference of Weber Stake of 
Zion was held in the Tabernacle in Ogden City,
the 9th, 10th, and 11th of June. There was a
most interesting series of meetings, commenc-
ing on Thursday, at 10 o'clock A. M., with the
Relief Society, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding. 
The meeting was addressed by Sisters Jane S.
Richards, Hattie Brown, E. R. Snow Smith,
and E. B. Wells; also Apostle F. D. Richards,
Pres. D. H. Peery and Bro. Eggleston. The
Presidents of the various branches of the Relief
Society in Weber Co., made verbal reports,
which were very favorable, and much good in-
struction was given during the day.
	On Friday the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Stake
held their Conference, Mrs. Sarah A. Herrick
presiding. The young lady presidents who rep-
resented their respective organizations, evinced
forcibly to every observing mind the rapid prog-
ress which has been made during the last year,
and the benefit, mentally and spiritually, which
will eventually result from these Associations.
Mrs. Sarah Herrick and her Counselors, Mrs.
Emily S. Richards and Mrs. Josephine R. West,
each made a few excellent remarks, in a spirit
calculated to carry conviction to every heart.
Addresses were also made by Sisters E. R. Snow
Smith, E. B. Wells and E. B. Ferguson.
	Saturday the Primary Associations convened
in the Tabernacle, which was well filled, with
the little folks. There were present from Salt
Lake City, Pres. Joseph F. Smith, Eliza R.
Snow Smith and Dr. Ellen R. Ferguson; also
Apostle F. D. Richards, Pres. D. H. Peery and
several Bishops. Mrs. Josephine R. West pre-
siding. Exercises by the children were ably ren-
dered, and the meeting was addressed by Sisters
Jane S. Richards, Eliza R. Snow Smith and
Pres. Joseph F. Smith instructing the children
in a tender and attractive manner. Dr. Fergu-
son also made a few pleasing remarks, and alto-
gether the Conference was an interesting one,
and a season long to be remembered, of which
fuller particulars may be given in our next issue.


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRIMARY Blanks for making up reports, for
sale at Deseret News Office.
	"THE Word of Wisdom" essay, by Florence
Ridges, published in our issue June 1, instead of
11th Ward should have re[--] 19th Ward.
	SISTERS B. W. Smith E. Howard and R. R.
Grant attended the Tooele Stake Ladies Confer-
ence held Saturday and Sunday 11th and 12th,
of the present month.
	SISTERS E. B. Snow Smith and Zina D. H. 
Young, are in Brigham City, attending the Con-
ference of Relief Society, and Y. D. M. I. A., and
Primary Associations which occured the 14th and
15th of June, It is expected they will visit the
organizations in towns adjacent previous to re-
turning home.
	THE Clerk of the House of Representatives
has placed the name of Hon. George Q. Cannon
upon the roll of that House, notwithstanding
all his enemies have done to oppose it. The
women of Utah, as well as the men, [---] cast
their votes for the Delegate of their choice, will
rejoice that one important step has been gained
in favor of the man elected by the people.
	WE hope the following will stimulate the peo-
ple of Utah to setting out mulberry trees and
raising cocoons. We are pleased to be able to
state that a large quantity of home-made silk,
suitable for netting, etc,, it now ready and for
sale, as per advertisement in our columns. The
silk is the natural color, but will make beautiful


[Column 1]

ties, mitts, gloves and other useful articles, and
will wash and wear even better than the col-
ored material.
	THE Sisters Conference of this Stake of Zion
will be held this week commencing on the 17th,
at 10 o'clock A. M., in the 14th, Ward Assembly
Rooms. The next day 18th, will be devoted to
the Primary Association in the morning and in
the afternoon to the Y.  L. M. I. A., and it is
expected will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall. Bishops, parents and all those who are
interested in the work of these organizatrons are
cordially invited to attend these gatherings.
	THE Old Folks' Excursion, according to previ-
ous notice, will take place on the 22nd anniver-
sary of Bishop Hunter's birthday. The place of
destination will be Farr's Grove, Ogden. The
affair being in the hands of such an efficient
committee cannot fail to be a complete success.
There will be a special choir for the occasion, who
are now practicing so as to be able to cheer and
inspire the old people with some stirring melo-
dies suitable for such an occasion. God bless the
Old Folks and those who respect age and seek
to comfort their lonely years.
	MONDAY May 23d, Sisters Zina D. H. Young
and M. Isabella Horne left this city to attend
the Sisters Conference of Seveir Stake and 
visit the various settlements in the vicinity.
At Gunnison on the way down they held two
meetings witht he Relief Society and Primary
Association. At Salina they held a general
meeting and then went on to Richfield, where
the conference was held the 26th and 27th of
May. They also visited Monroe, Glenwood, El-
sinor, Joseph, Vermillion, and all the other
towns in the county. At each of these
places the sisters held two meetings, and at
Redmund, Sister Zina organized the young la-
dies. In Sevier Stake, the sisters held about 30
meetings. From Sevier Stake the ladies went
on to Sanpete expecting to hold meetings in that
county, but Sister Horne was taken sick and
obliged to return home. An appointment hav-
ing been given out in Manti, Sister Zina filled
the appointment. Sister Horne's health has im-
proved since her return.
	THE second annual meeting of the Primary
Association of West Jordan was held on Tuesday
June 7, in the Ward meeting house at 10 o'clock.
Ther was a very full attendance, of the children
and quite a number of parents. The children
performing their respective parts of the pro-
gramme admirably. There were also several
articles on exibition made by the children which
prove that great interest is being taken in de-
veloping their talent and ability for active use-
fulness. The Association has a very efficient
board of officers. Mrs. Mary Bird President,
Mrs. Maria Goff and Mrs. Mary Ann Turner
Counselors. There were quite a number of ladies
from the city present who were all most hospit-
ably, entertained and feasted with strawberries.
In the afternoon the children had a dancing party
in charge of the ladies of the Primary Associa-
tion and Brother Samuel Bateman, who pre-
served most excellent order with two hundred
children, many of them very young. Refresh-
ments were distributed in the Hall to all present.
Altogether the affair was an enjoyable one.
Bishop Gardner came during the afternoon.
We will publish at another time the programme
of exercises.
	"GEMS for the Young Folks:"the fourth book of
the "Faith Promoting Series," has been recently
ssued from the office of the "Juvenile Instruct-
[-]r." It is quite as interesting as either of the
others, and they are certainly an acquisition to
the libraries of the young people, and indeed to
the Saints old and young. This last book con

[Column 2]

tains the almost marvelous story of Abraham
Kimball, which is every word true, and the half
is not told. We were acquainted with the
mother and grandparents of this young man,
and have always considered that his history was
a grand testimony of the truth of this Latter-
day work, and especially so of Plural Marriage.
His grandfather's confession to him every one
ought to read. The book contains many strong
testimonies to the truth from several traveling
Elders—stories of their missions, trials and per-
secutions. A chapter entitled "Overcoming
Diffidence," by G. Q. C., will be an excellent
lesson for the young people. Altogether the
book is most entertaining. The "Instructor"
Office is doing an excellent work in publishing
suitable reading for the Saints. For sale at the
office of the "Juvenile Instructor" and "Deseret 
News."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED: at Littleton, Morgan County, Utah, of
heart disease, May 13, 1881, Harriet [-]ayne, wife
of Elder Joseph Spenblove.
	Deceased was born at Medburne, Leicesterhire, 
England, April 14, 1833. She was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
by Wm. Mellows, March 6, 1853, and confirmed
by James Mason. She emigrated with her fam-
ily to Utah in 1865. The same year she came to
Littleton where she resided until her death. On
the 15th of September 1878, she was appointed
President of the Milton Ward Relief Society
over which she presided with dignity, honor, and
credit until the time of her demise.
	The funeral, which was very largely attended,
took place in the Molton meeting house on Sun-
day, May 15th. Addresses were delivered on
the occasion by Bishop Eli Whitear, and many
others, who spoke in the highest terms of com-
mendation of the life, character and usefulness
of the deceased. Sister Spendlove was widely
known, and much beloved by the people of Mor-
gan County. She lived the life of a true Saint,
and died with the sure and certain hope of a re-
surection of eternal life.

	DIED:—In Mormoni, Sanpete Co. April 29 1881.
Sarah Kellet of dropsy. She was born in Ash-
ton Underline Lancashire England 1842. She
was the wife of John Kellet deceased. After an
illness of several months which was borne with
resignation to her Father in Heaven, her faith
in the priesthood being firm and unshaken to
the last. She left four orphan children com-
mending them to the Lord and to the care of
her parents. She was a member of our Relief
Society and when able to attsnd meeting always
bore a strong testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel of Jesus Christ. She has passed through
many trials for the sake of her religion and
worked hard in order to support her children.
May she rest in peace until she is called forth in
the morning of the first resurrection.
	JANE BAILEY.


AMANDA SMITH.
			[CONTINUED.]
	During the time we lived in Nauvoo, President
Joseph Smith organized a Relief Society.  Sister
Smith became a member of its first organization
and greatly rejoiced in the benevolent
work; much good was accomplished by it. 
The women of our people know how
to sympathize with suffering humanity and "to
weep with those that weep," and are well cal-
culated to minister to the needs of their fellow
creatures temporal and spiritual.  There were
many sick and poor in Nauvoo in consequence
of the mobbings and drivings they had just past
through, ond ague was prevalent all along the
river and indeed inland as well.  So that the
people had the fever and ague to contend against
in the midst of all their other difficulties. 
 The Relief Society did much good work in
many ways although at that time it was a new
thing for a woman to lead out in any public mat-
ter.  President Smith had confidence in wom-
an's ability to performe errands of importance as
the following will prove; in July 1842 it was sug-
gested that some measurs be taken by the Re-
lief Society to interest the Government of Il-
linois in protecting the Prophet Joseph from his
enemies in Missouri; it was decided that a peti-
tion from the Relief Society be presented to
Thomas Carlin Govenor of the State of Illinois
claming his protection as chief magistrate.  The
Governor's residence was in Quincy fifty miles
south of Nauvoo.  President Joseph Smith 
wished the ladies to make the effort themselves,
and himself named the sisters who were to be
the bearers of the petition.  Mrs. Amanda Smith, 
the subject of this biography, was honored by
him as one of the three ladies chosen to fill this
mission.  The petition was signed by every
member of the Relief Society.  The Governor re-
ceived the ladies with "cordiality and polite-
ness,"  assuring them that "the laws and con-
stitution should be his polar star in case of any
difficulty." However it was afterwards ascer-
tained that at that very time he was "secretly
plotting against the rights and safety of Pres.
Smith."  But whatever the result the ladies had
nobly manifested their zeal and courage and the
Prophet appreciated their efforts.  This instance
is worthy of record as it is the first mission of 
the kind undertaken by the women of this
Church.
 "In July 1847 we started from Nauvoo intend-
ing to go with the Saints to the Rocky Moun-
tains, but for the want of sufficient means for
so long a journey we were compelled to stop in
Iowa. We remained until the year 1850 when 
we took up our line of march for Salt Lake City,
arriving on the 18th, of September safe and well.
Shortly after we arrived in this city my husband
who had been for some time dilatory in his
duties; apostatized from the faith and we sep-
arated.  I took the children with me and pro-
vided for myself.  I managed my own affairs
and succeeded by practising industry and econ-
omy in taking care of my family until Alma
grew to manhood; he has been more than a son
to me.  In 1856 my son Alma was called upon a
mission to the Sandwich Islands.  He had been 
married a year or two previous and had already
one son."
	Sister Smith is a woman of exceeding great
faith, she seems to have possessed the gift of
faith in a wonderful degree; her life abounds
with incidents in which the power of God has
been manifested in the healing of the sick.  She
says "I have drank the bitter dregs of the cup of
sorrow and affliction, as well as partaken of the
blessing of an all merciful God.  I have drank
from the fountain of the waters of life freely.  I 
have seen the Lord's power manifest to a great
degree. I have seen the lame leap as an hart,
the eyes of the blind open, and as it were, the 
dead raised to life--all in my own family since I 
have been a member of the Church of Jesus 
Christ.  I have born six children since receiv-
ing the Gospel, and of these five were born
without pain through the power of the priest-
hood of God, and I feel that of all women I have
the greatest reason to rejoice and thank my
Heavenly Father; and I do thank and praise his
holy name for his blessings to me; and I do de-
sire that I may ever be kept faithful unto the end
that I may receive the reward of the just.  I 
will relate one or two occurrences which tran-
spired in my own house showing the power of
faith or healing."
	Willa[--] [---] when about twelve
years old was thrown from a horse and taken up
for dead.  He lay until men ran from a half
mile away to help him, and they carried him
back the half mile, before there was any appear-
ance of life.  By the administration of the Elders
and the power of the holy priesthood he was
brought back to life.  His skull was cracked
and his head very much injured.  For some
days he lay perfectly unconscious, and no one
except those who had faith in the Gospel could
beleive that he could ever be restored to health
and strength."  "When my son Alma was about
two years old he had sore eyes until he was actu-
ally blind, and a film grew over both eyes, 
which destroyed the sight.  This film was re-
moved by the power of God in an instant and no
weakness even was left.  These are only a few
of the numerous instances of the power of God,
which I have witnessed in my own family."
			To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

SAN JUAN RIVER NEW MEXICO, MAY 27, 1881.

DEAR EXPONENT. It is sometime since I wrote
last and as this is my third place of residence, I
fancy some of our friends will think we are seek-
ing a country to suit us, more than trying to fill
a mission. I will say every move has been ac-
cording to the wishes of those whose authority
we are pleased to acknowledge as the word of the
Lord to us, and I trust we may not forget why
we are here and for what purpose we came.
There are only eight families at preseut located
here, but we hope to be reinforced the coming
fall. Our townsite is less than a mile from the
river and there are ample facilities for making a
thriving settlement. As we have no Relief or-
Improvement Association we will welcome with
joy more settlers so that we may be blest with
such institutions. I for one, think I could ap-
preciate them, being deprived of the same for
nearly four years. We have a day, and Sabbath
School and meeting every Sunday afternoon.
We are located six miles above Bowen's ferry
and ten miles below the town of Farmington. I
understand it is near a hundred miles to the
nearest Mormon settlement. We have a few
Gentile neighbors who patronize our school as it
is the only one near the vicinity. The railroad
is within sixty miles of us, and we hope to be
visited during the summer by some of the Saints
from Utah. We are only a few sisters here but
we take three numbers of the EXPONENT, and
feel as if we could not do without it for any price.
Our husbands enjoy the reading of it quite as
much as we do, though there are some of our
brethren (I am sorry to say) speak of the paper
as if its whole mission was to depreciate men and
place women at the head, while it deplores the
idea of wives being subject to their husbands at
all. To such I would say please read our paper
and you will find you are mistaken. Do not
condemn it simply bacause you have read, or
perhaps heard now and then an article in which
the writer has been somewhat enthusiastic over
"woman's rights." If you refuse to do this but
ignorantly judge of its contents I must say you
are somewhat like the enemies of the Saints in
general who are unwilling to investigate our
doctrines lest they find good in them. In the
above I have no reference to any one in particu-
lar but to all who are not thoroughly acquainted
with the merits of the EXPONENT. If I have
been tiresome please forgive, and remember the
writer is only,
	MARY STUART.


R.S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.

		LOGAN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:—We have failed to re-
port ourselves to the Exponent in the past,
yet we have not been idlers, and will try in the
future to keep you better posted in regard to
our progress.
Our brethren have recently overlooked and
reorganized the Relief Society of Logan.
Cache Valley Relief Society has now a Stake
President in the person of Libbie Benson and
her Counselors are Sisters Louisa Benson and
Lucy Cardon; Sister Caine Sec’y.
A few days since a pleasing event in the
shape of a surprise party gotten up by sister
Ricks, then President of the first Ward now
Pres. of the Logan Relief Societies, and other
sisters, in honor of our dear Sister Libbie Ben-
son, took place in the Logan Hall. Bishop
Lewis, Brother Thos. Cordon some others and
a (almost) host of ladies were present; an
elegant pic nic was provided. A pretty Au-
tograph Album and a chain for the neck were
presented by Sister Ricks from the sisters of
the first Ward as a small token of esteem.
speeches were short but full of brightness.
  Instructed by Bishop Prestou and his Coun-
selors assisted by the Bishops, Sister Benson
has organized Primaries in some of the wards
in Logan of which you will hear more anon.
I am yours very respectfully,
E. L. Crowther, Ass’t.Sec’y.
RICHMOND.
 Minutes of the Annual Meeting of the Pri-
mary Association held June 1st, 1881. Pres.
H. Brown presiding, singing “Marching to the
Temple,” prayer by Counselor Maria Monson,
singing “Always Cheerful.” Minutes of the
last annual meeting read and aproved, yearly
report read and accepted, after which our pro-
gramme was announced for the occasion, which
consisted, of a choice selection of songs, recita-
tions, select readings, compositions &c. Which
were got up and promptly given, and that won
applause from the parents and all who attended.
It being our late President Young’s Birthday
Sister M. Monson read an article composed for
the occasion, on his faithful labors in leading
his people as did Moses of old.“ The workiwng
bee” was sung by Pres.H. Brown,after which a
very touching piece entitled “My Mother’s last
kiss” was read by Counselor Maggie Thomp-
son, appropriate remarks and instructions were
given by some of the parents. Singing “Never
be late.” Meeting adjourned until June 1st,
1882. Benediction by Pres. Hannah Brown.
	ELIZABETH MERRILL, Asst., Sec’y.
Annual Report of the Primary Association
from June 1st. 1880, to June 1st. 1881.
Amount remaining in treasury from previous
year $3,60; received in donations from members,
$2,48; on proceeds of l quilt,pieced by children,
$3,00. Disbursements, July 22nd, 1880, mat-
erials for making a banner, $1,45; Sept. 9th,
1 blank book 20, cts, Oct. 12th, calico for
quilt, $1,16; Nov. 9th, writing paper, 20.
Total amount received $9,08; total amount
expended, $3,01; total amount remaining in
treasury, $6.07.

ST. JOSEPH, APACHE CO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:—At the request of our
President I write to inform you that we have a
Relief Society organized here with Sister Mary
Richards as President and Sister Jane Allen
and Lois A. Bushman as Counselors. We have
eighteen members all young in experience, but
who endeavor to do what they can to progress
this great and glorious work in which we are
engaged. We meet regularly once a month
ana hold sewing meetings whenever necessary.
We have made several quilts, have at present
$4.15 in the treasury—we live in the Order
and have no poor and a good Spirit prevails in
our midst—our Sunday School and day school
are both well attended. We take the Expon-
ent and appreciate the good instructions it
contains and say success to the Exponent and
to its contributors. Our prospects for the com-
ing season are moderately good.
		Lois A. Bushman.

		HYRUM.

EDITOR EXPONENT—Thinking a line from
Hyrum would not be amiss, we submit our re-
port. We held our Thirteenth Annual meet-
ing on Monday, the 9th ult; On the stand
were Bishop O. N. Liljenquist and Counselors,
Sister Benson, President of Stake, her Coun-
selors and Secretary. Sister C. Liljenquist
presiding. After the usual exercises and read-
ing reports the sisters from Logan addressed
us, and spoke words of encouragement. Said:
“Your reports show that you are united in
ministering to the poor and building temples.”
Exhorted us to continue in well doing.
Bishop Liljenquist gave good counsel on the
subject of obedience to the Priesthood and the
order to be maintained in our organizations.
Counselors G. Unsworth and J. McBride made
a few remarks. Sister Liljenquist exhibited a
fine specimen of reeled silk from Sister J.
Neilson, of Hyrum. The officers were then
elected, after which meeting adjourned. Bene-
diction by Bro. J. C. Thorison.
After meeting the sisters sat down to a boun-
teous repast that was prepared in the Hall.
In the evening a party was given, in which the
young folks joined, the profits to go to emigrate
a poor boy from Denmark.	
Praying for the success of your valuable
paper and for every noble enterprise, we sub-
scribe ourselves,
L. Liljenquist, Pres’t..
N. M. Neilson, Sec’y.


JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	James Wyvil was a man of good standing
well known and respected by all. He had
traveled across the plains in the same company,
and made the acquaintance of Jesse and Mary
under the most trying circumstances. He had
been kind in extending any assistance in his
power to his fellow travelers, and although
having his own team to look after, had found
many opportunities of rendering services to
Captain Burns. Jesse being his Captain in the
traveling organization, He had often admired
Mary's fortitude under trying circumstances,
and considered her one of the noblest and best
of women. He was from Massachusetts and
had a beautiful family; his wife and daughters 
being raised amid the refinements of good so-
ciety. Mary found much happiness in their
company,while they in turn,had extended to her
many courtesies and kindnesses during Jesse’s
long absence. As the time passed he grew to
admire her noble and unselfish principles, and
perhaps he was just a little glad when he
learned that she was finally separated from
Jesse. Be that as it may, he often found op-
portunities of going to enquire after her welfare,
or render her some service which he knew her
lonely situation would cause her to appreciate.
His wife joined him in his kind attention and
Mary and Minnie were often invited to their
house or to attend some social gathering in their
company. At length he proposed taking her
under his protection by making her his wife.
She knew no one she could esteem higher, and
she had been so long deprived of a husband’s
sheltering care and companionship, that it
seemed to her a haven of refuge. She felt that
it was impossible to ask charity of the Bishop
and it seemed her only alternative. She could
not wrong Jesse by doing so, for he had forsaken
her and cast her from him; the law had divid-
ed them and given her an honorable release.
It was not dishonorable to become James
Wyvil's second wife. Such marriages were of
frequent occurrences, and no wife was honored
less because she was not the first wife. She
would have suffered untold miseries, would
have given her life rather than her honor, but
there was no such question at stake. In marry-
ing him she sacrificed no social principle, or
moral standing,yet it was with some misgivings 
she scarcely knew why, that she became James
Wyvil's wife.
	Why is it not given us to foresee the future?
How different we should sometimes plan our
lives: and yet could she have known "what
might have been," she would have been con-
tent, perhaps, to accept her fate as it was
instead of rebeling at her lot. James moved
her to his own home,and was so kind to Minnie
and Nellie that they felt as though he was a
friend indeed to protect and care for them.
"While her father lived Minnie could never
give another that title, but she was ready to
appreciate kindness and give the respect that


was due. Mary felt as if she too had a friend
who would care for her,and provide for her and
her family.
 She had not long enjoyed her tranquility
however, when it was broken up by a letter
from Jesse, calling her every endearing name,
and craving her forgiveness for his haste in
writing under the influence of excitement. He
had just received her letter and learned from
her own hand the reason of her not coming.
His brother had inflamed his mind with jealousy
and in his bitter disappointment he had written
as he did; but all was forgiven with him, and
money sent for her and the children, for he
began to realize that they must surely be in
want.
	Oh Jesse! had you but realized that sooner!
had you reasoned calmly, and trusted her that
was so true to you, that she would have laid
down her life rather than sacrifice her dignity,
or your honor: her who had never spoken to
any other man save in the common courtesy of
friendship; how much might have been spared
to your self, to her and her innocent children.
But Oh! the desparing voice of the heart, when
it echoes the cry, “too late!” How quickly
would the wounded spirit have fled to his ten-
crembrace, and the home ties been gathered
which had so long been parted asunder, but it
was too late, Mary was the wife of another,
her children were taken away from their father,
the home ties were broken and her heart was
ready to break, as it echoed the refrain, too late!
too late! She had taken the fatal step that
could not be retraced. His tender letter had
wiped away all feelings of resentment, and she
could not forget that he was the choice of her
youth, the father of her children. It seemed
to her that if she could lie down and die, it
would be sweeter far than to live and know
that she had taken the fatal step that separated
their lives forever. She forgot the long years
of suffering, the agonized prayers, the angry
letter, the threat of taking her little one from
her which was the cause of her haste. If he
had not said that, she might have waited still;
but even the wild beasts will turn when its
young are taken from it, and the mother-heart
dictated her to defend her child. What could
she do? She could not retrace her steps, She
must hold her life as it was, and walk the way
for she could not turn back. No matter how
weary or heart-sick; no matter how dark the
road, she must travel it, though the thorns
should prick her tender feet, and the light of
her soul be turned to darkness and despair.
She was the wife now of James Wyvil and she
must not chill the fountain of his tenderness,
nor wean his feelings from her by useless re-
grets. She had taken upon herself new obliga-
# tions, and she would be true to her trust Like 
the Spartan youth she must conceal the fox in
her bosom, though it gnaw her vitals. She
wrote to Jesse of what she had done and why
i she had done it. That henceforth their lives
must be apart. The money he had sent should
be saved for his children, and she hoped let
what would transpire, he would not forget
them.
[To be Continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE NATIONAL SUFFRAGE ASSOCIA-
TION.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
held its thirteenth annual meeting in Tremont
Temple Boston. It has every reason to be
gratified and satisfied with its reception. The
distinguished women who have been at the
head of that association for many years, Mrs.
Stanton, Miss Anthony, Mrs. Joslyn Gage, Mrs.
Hooker, and Mrs. Blake, were sure to attract
interest and draw an audience. The younger
and less known women, Mrs. Merriwether, of
Memphis, Mrs. E. L. Saxon of New Orleans,
Mrs. May Wright Sewall of Indianapolis, Mrs.


McClellan Brown of Pennsylvania, and Mrs.
Belva Lockwood of Washington, were all for
the first time pleasantly introduced to a Boston
audience, while Rev. Olympia Brown was wel-
comed by a large circle of old friends, who will
always hold her in honor. Several New Eng-
land speakers united with them, so that they
had ample force for their six sessions. The
speeches were abundantly and cordially re-
ported by the Boston press, which did not fail
to report, also, the rich dresses of velvet, satin
and lace, and the distinguished appearance of
the different speakers,
	During the session a gold cross was presented
to Miss Anthony by the Citizen’s Suffrage As-
sociation, of Philadelphia, in a graceful speech
by Mrs. May Wright Sewall, who characterized
Miss Anthony as the “saint” to whom the
beautiful gift, with suitable inscriptions and
date, was especially due.
	Governor Long gave the association a recep-
tion at the State House. Mrs. May Wright
Sewall said it was the first time, any Suffrage
Association had been received by a Governor.
Mayor Prince received them at the City Hall.
Jordan & Marsh invited them to the rooms of
his work-women, which were so ample and com-
fortable as to elicit much praise. The working-
women danced, and sang, and recited to the
ladies, who in turn made them speeches.
	Mrs. Fenno Tudor also offered her elegant
parlors for a reception to the association. Mrs.
Johnson, of the Sherborn prison for women,
invited them to visit that institution, which
they did. The Bird Club invited Mrs. Stan-
ton, Miss Anthony, and others, to their regular
Saturday dinner. The invitation was accepted.
Eleven years ago, a similar invitation was ac-
cepted by Mrs. Stanton, from the same club.
Altogether the association was feted and feasted
in a manner to show that Woman Suffrage, at
least in Massachusetts; holds an honorable
place.—Ex.


DISRAELI’S SENTIMENTS ON WOMAN
SUFFRAGE.
 “I say that in a country governed by a woman
—where you allow women to form part of the
other estate of the realm—peeresses in their
own right, for example—where you allow a
woman not only to hold land, but to be a lady
of the manor and hold legal courts—where a
woman by law may be a church warden and
overseer of the poor—I do not see, where she
has so much to do with the State and Church,
on what reasons, if you come to right, she has
not a right to vote.”
	In 1873 a memorial, signed by upwards of
1,000 women, was presented to Mr. Disraeli
through the late Mr. Gore Langton, M. P., to
whom he addressed the following reply:
	“Dear Gore Langton—I was much honored
by receiving from your hands the memorial
signed by 11,000 women of England, among
them some illustrious names, thanking me for
my services in attempting to abolish the anom-
aly that the parliamentary franchise attached
to a household or property qualification, when
possessed by a woman, should not be exercised,
though in all matters of local government,
when similarly qualified, she exercises this
right. As I believe this anomaly to be inju-
rious to the best interests of the country, I
trust to see it removed by the wisdom of Par-
liament.
		Yours sincerely, B. DISRAELI.”
 The following resolution was passed at a
meeting of the executive committee of the
Manchester National Society for Women's
Suffrage, held April 26, 1881.
	“That this committee in expressing their deep
sense of the loss which Parliament and the
country have sustained by the lamented death
of the Earl of Beaconsfield, desire to record


their gratitude for the services the deceased
statesman rendered to the cause of the enfran-
chisement of women by stating in the House
of Commons, during the debates which pre-
ceded the passing of the hist reform bill, his
opinion that women having property ought to
have a vote, and by his steady and uniform
support of the bill to remove the electoral dis-
abilities of women so long as he remained a
member of the House of Commons."—Ex.


THE STAGE OF LIFE.
This earth is a stage upon which we are all
acting a part; we, ourselves cannot see so well
how we are playing our respective parts as
those who are looking on and observing us can;
we sometimes think that we will turn aside a
little from the plan which the Great Designer
has laid down for us to go by in his programme,
thinking that perhaps, we can find a better
method whereby we can benefit ourselves; while
upon the stage; never thinking that we will
need assistance after we step down off from the
stage and enter in upon the reality of another
life; we will then find that by taking our own
course that we had only sought to appear well
while upon the stage; but then alas, had nev-
er reflected upon the future, but if we had been
wise enough to follow the good advice given us, 
thereby we would have lain up treasures more
durable, which would have lasted us through-
out eternity. So now my dear sisters the Gospel
has taught us to obey the perfect law, let us try
to play our part well and lay up for ourselves
treasures in heavens “where moth and rust do
not corrupt” and let us be wise in improving
our time; and not spend all the precious mo-
ments in making fine apparel to adorn ourselves
with here, but give a portion of our time to
caring for the poor among God’s people and
informing our minds upon all subjects pertain-
ing to our pure religion; and never let our
minds go so far astray after the fashion and
folly of this world, that we will render ourselves
unfit to enter in upon the realities of a higher
and better life and lose the crown which is laid
up for the faithful Mothers in Israel. Let us
above all things not neglect the tender little
ones whom God has given and entrusted in our
care; do not let them run and take care of
themselves all day and lie down at night with-
out teaching them to pray; and thus let them 
go on until after a while we will see the fruit of
our neglect. Yes, see a son or daughter grown
to youth and maidenhood; it is not much use
then, to tell them to pray they will be ashamed
so to do, and if one does prevail on them it
will be much harder than it would have been,
if they had begun earlier; and ten chances to
one if parents succeed at all; it is written that
“children should obey their parents,” but do
parents always set an example worthy of imita-
tion; if they do children will seldom if ever be-
come disobedient. A whipping now and then
is not all that is required,it is not the best way
to rule over our children but be kind and firm,
truthful and honest with them, and they will
love and obey the parents. I have written
some of the scattered ideas of my mind, which
may not prove interesting, but they arc written
with a desire for good.
S. T. B.


OLD FOLKS’ PARTY.

On June the first, in commemoration of the
birthday of our departed President, Brigham
Young, a party of aged persons sat down to a
sumptuous repast in the City Hall at Spanish
Fork, which had been kindly furnished for the
occasion. The brass band was in attendance,
and at 2 p. m. called together the invited
guests. It was a peculiarly interesting sight,
as the aged ones, some very weak and tottering,


wended their way on foot, or were conveyed in
vehicles, assembled at the place of meeting, all
well and suitably attired, not one bearing
marks of poverty, their faces aglow with se-
rene joy and peace. Many of the number were
over eighty, and some verging on ninety years
of age.
	Bishop George D. Snell and Counselors were
present. After the usual opening exercises,
Patriarch Zebedee Coltrin addressed the assem-
bly, and in a most touching manner related
many incidents connected with the life of our
late Prophet, from his personal acquaintance
with him, dating back fifty years. Several of
the aged brethren spoke testifying to the mis-
sion of Brigham Young as the leader of this
people for over thirty years, and of their
knowledge of the truth of the Gospel, and of
the blessings which have accrued to us as a 
people through those labors. Sister Mary Isaacs
sang, in a very effective manner, "Will you
love me when I'm old." Some verses written
for the occasion by Mrs. Hannali Coraby
were then read. The brass band discoursed
sweet music at intervals during the exercises.
	At five p. m. the company were seated at
three long tables, on which was tastefully
spread an abundance and variety of creature
comforts; the tables were ornamented with beau-
tiful vases of flowers. It is estimated that
about two hundred and fifty enjoyed the feast,
and an abundance was left to distribute to the
sick and those not able to attend. The eve-
ning was spent in dancing. Through the whole
of the proceedings a most delightful spirit of the
Gospel.
	The affair was wholly designed and got up
by the Relief Society, four committees of sis-
ters having been appointed to carry out the
arrangements. The people liberally responded
with means to assist the enterprise. All verg-
ing into and over seventy were invited, it being
especially a party for the old folks.
	HANNAH CORNABY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACT FROM DR. R. B. PRATT'S
					LECTURE.

	"The duties and requirements of a woman,
fulfilling her sphere of motherhood, absolutely
demand certain periods of continence, which
if not granted  through thoughtful solici-
tude for her welfare by her husband, or herself
assumed, by virtue of the dignity of woman-
hood, or by the divine right of free agency, the
principle of her life and health is encroached
upon, and she is forced to perform her ever in-
creasing labors and duties with a decreasing
store of vitality.
	"There is nothing tn the economy or require-
ments of a man's life which requires this ab-
stinence beyond the temperate limit of his
powers of vitality, and this to me is a proof
unanswerable and prima facie on the spheres of 
manhood and womanhood, of the divinity and 
I believe is a necessity for the salvation of the 
human race, of the truth and divine origin of 
the principle of plural marriage.
	With this principle universal, but limited
and governed by laws of marraige inhibiting
sensuality and selfishness, insuring to the
wife the literal fulfilment of that part of 
the marriage ceremony which provides that
she shall be 'nourished and cherished and be
provided for, and the children be hygienically
and physiologically clothed and fed and prop-
erly educated, the solution to the growing so-
cial civil would be found. Every woman could
be what every true woman's happiness depends
upon, a happy wife and mother, queen over
her own increasing posterity, and then, honored
patriarchs, which are divine rights of both
given by God as a law unto man on earth and 
throughout all eternity. Were this the order


of the world, abortions, foeticides, infanticides,
seductions, rapes and divorces would be relics
of the barbarous age, while intelligence, light,
peace and good will and love would be the
motor forces of the world– in short, the Mil-
lennium would have come.'"


BBIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY.
PROVO CITY UTAH, MAY 30, 1881.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister:— Permit me to express through
the medium of your esteemed paper the thanks of
this Faculty for the interest shown and efforts
made in behalf of the Brigham Young Academy
by Sisters Eliza R. Snow, and Zina D. H. Young,
and as  result of which the sum of seventy-three
dollars and sixty cents, donated by various Relief
Societies south in Scipio and in Washington and
Kane Counties has been placed at the disposal of
our Treasurer, to assist in procuring the neces-
sary apparatus for our chemical laboratory.
	Not only is this donation a substantial aid
financially to our hard struggling institution,
but also a testimonial of sympathy with, and
faith in our efforts to prepare the youth of Zion
for that great, future in which they are destined
to fill so conspicuous a part.
	The Board, Faculty, and Students  of this
Academy will, with the help of God, endeavor
to deserve always the confidence and support of
the Authorities of the Church and of the Saints
generally, and thus show their appreciation for
all acts of kindness, of which they are in so
many ways of late the happy recipients.
	With kind regards, your brother in the
Gospel.
				KARL G. MAESER.


Mrs. Sarah Andrews Spencer has organized
a Social Science Association at Washington,
D. C. Mrs. Spencer is a woman of the great-
est magnanimity of character. Her benevo-
lence and generosity are almost without par-
allel. In the clevation of woman and the cause
of woman suffrage she has labored earnestly
and courageously for years against prejudice,
ridicule and all sorts of obstacles. We bid
her God speed and offer our prayers for her suc-
cess in benefitting the condition of woman.


FOR SALE
Home-Made SILK
AT
CUTLER'S COMISSION STORE.
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.
OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
Special attention given to OBstetries, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
OFFICE-Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE--Six BLocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
 Special study has been give to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.
HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
 If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO. CHICAGO. ILL.
YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.
PALACE OF FASHION, NO 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE.
 Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contibutor Office, north of
Z. C. M. L.
Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.
THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes
be found in the West. Your Orders are selected
GEO. DUNFORD.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.
DAVID JAMES
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
Z.C.M,I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS. NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.
AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
mare and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.
A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS; Old
Constitution Building; alson HOME MADE.
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,  Cotton Batting
Flannels, White Yarns,  Wool Batting,
Shawls, Colored Yarns, Brootns,
Linseys, Cassimers, Washboards;
Jeans, Tweeds,  Brushes,  Etc. Etc.
H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.
DR. A. B. DUNFORD
DENTIST
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the 
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit end Times First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:--MAIN ST. OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P.O. BOX, 518.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1881.


TO THE PRESIDING BISHOP ED
WARD HUNTER,

ON THE EIGHTY-EIGHTH ANNIVERSARY OF
HIS BIRTHDAY

Hail, our worthy, aged Bishop,
On your Anniversary,
You have won unfading laurels,
Thro' your staunch integrity.
Rich in gifts of grace and wisdom-
With celestial light imbued;
By supernal beams of knowledge,
From the eternal Source of Good.

Our first Prophet loved you dearly-
Well your sterling worth he knew;
He in holy bonds of frienship
Still retains his love for you.
Your large heart with gen'rous impulse
Unrestrained by selfish greed,
From your ample store, imparted
Freely to the Prophet's need.

When unhallowed persecution,
Waged against the Saints of God;
You, unflinching and undaunted,
Firmly as a bulwark stood.
Men of trust--of faith and courage,
When the sky was dark and drear;
Were esteemed most choice and precious,
By our noble, martyr'd Seer.

You have blessed the lonely widow--
Soothed and cheered the orphan's heart;
You, with kindness, faith and patience,
Have performed a brother's part.
As a fond and loving father,
You alleviate distress--
When officially presiding,
You decide in righteousness.

You have made a noble record,
Filled with useful service here,
Where the name of Edward Hunter,
Many "hearts and homes hold dear.
You have reached a mark of honor,
Far above all earthly fame--
You require no sculpted marble,
To immortalize your name.


[COLUMN 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
			WOMAN.
		ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
			CONTINUED.
	As Sister Eilza was returning home from
her travels abroad, having seen much of life in
different countries, the extremes of wealth and
poverty, she appreciated more and more the
blessings enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints in
their peaceful mountain homes; and her heart
seemed to reach out after her dear friends who
were awaiting her coming.
	From Vienna,where we left the party in our
last chapter, they went to Berlin. The wea-
ther was cold and stormy, but one sunny day,
which they improved by sight-seeing. Sister
Eliza mentions one principal promenade called
Linden Street, from the street being lined on
both sides with four rows of lime trees. She
also speaks of an extensive public ground
called the Thier Garten, with artificial forests.
shrubbery and delightful avenues, walks, etc.
Here were multitudes of people of all classes.
	The tourists from Salt Lake visited the great
German Parliament; saw Count Bismarck and
Gen. Moltke; both members at that time. (The
House of Parliament is not so large as that of

[COLUMN 2]				
the French Assembly, but there was a larger
attendance. Sister Eliza says the gallery was
crowded with ladies and gentlemen. She great-
ly admired the dress of the Prussian ladies,
and thought they exhibited the most womanly
good sense in their style of dress of any na-
tionality she had seen in her travels, and adds:
“Inasmuch as dress is acknowledged to be a
legitimate index to the mind, I feel authorized
to pronounce in favor of these German ladies.”
	From Berlin to Hamburg, the great com-
mercial centre—Sister Eliza greatly admired
the Hamburg soldiers; but the lady refers to
the continent of Europe as “a land of soldiers,"
and says while the Latter-day Saints are la-
boring to establish a kingdom of peace, the
sword is the watchword among the nations of
the earth. On the evening of May 16, 1873,
the party took steamer from Hamburg to Lon-
don. After arriving there. Sister Eliza attend-
ed the Conference with the Saints in the Grand
Amphitheatre, Holborn, May 25, and left for
Liverpool May 27, and on the 28th embarked
on board the steamer Wisconsin.
	Writing while out at sea, Sister Eliza pours
forth in verse some of those deep emotions that
swell up in the human soul, and to which poe-
try perhaps gives the most perfect expression:

		We’ve sailed on many an ocean,
		And entered many a port.
		Viewed many a Princely Palace,
		And	many a Lordly Court.

		Seen many Mosques and Churches,
		And witnessed service there;
		And how unlike the Gospel
		Their modes of worship are

		By undisputed tokens
		His favored people know
		That God again has spoken
		From hearen to man below.

		And that the glorious Gospel
		Meets every mortal need;
		While truth eternal triumphs
		O’er every human creed.

	Sister Eliza remained a short time visiting
relatives in the Eastern States; found one bro-
ther she had not met for more than twenty
years, not since he was a mere boy. The lady
speaks most feelingly of visiting the scenes of
her childhood, and of the wonderful changes
time had made during a period of thirty-seven
years. “Many had gone the way of all earth,”
bat those who remained welcomed her with
“affectionate cordiality.” Indeed, Sister Eliza
says that through the counties of Portage,
Geauga, Cuyahoga and Loraine in Ohio, it
was one continued ovation. This is proof posi-
tive of the high esteem and honor in which
herself and Apostle Lorenzo Snow were held,
after all these long years of absence, they
were not forgotten. In writing of this, Sister
Eliza says:
		Our former loved associates
		Have mostly passed away,
		While those we knew as children
		Are crowned with locks of gray

		We saw Times' varied traces
		Were deep on every hand;
		Indeed, upon the people
		More mark'd than on the land
[COLUMN 3]
		And thus as in a mirror's
		Reflection, we were told
		With stereotyp'd impressions,
		The fact of growing old.

	Sister Eliza and her Brother, Lorenzo Snow,
succeeded in gathering many genealogies of
both the living and the dead of their relatives.
	Their return home was quiet and unpreten-
tious, as the following from the EXPONENT of
July I5, 1873, will show:
	“So carefully and silently was the closing
portion of the return trip of Eliza R. Snow
concluded, that not until Thursday, the fourth
day after her arrival, when the return of her
brother, President Lorenzo Snow, to Brigham
City, was noticed in the daily papers was it
suspected by many of her friends that she was
again safe at her home in this city, which she
reached on the evening of Sunday, the 6th
inst.” 
	Immediately after her return, she resumed
her labors among the people. In the EXPO-
NENT, August 1, she published a “Salutation
to the Ladies of Utah," expressing her joy and
gratitude at being once more at home in Zion,
and the thankfulnes and pride she felt while
absent that her home was in the valleys of the
Rocky Mountains. Referred to the absurdi-
ties existing abroad in regard to the down-trod-
den women of Utah, which she had invariably
opposed with the fact that nowhere on earth
had woman such large responsibilities and
powerful influence. The "Salutation" was time-
ly and appropriate, and was addressed to all as
an expression of her good feeling and sisterly
love.
	Shortly after her return, on the 17th of Au-
gust, she addressed a very large assembly of
ladies in the Ogden Tabernacle, also about the
same time in Provo; traveled through Cache
Valley in the month of September, visiiting
societies, holding meetings, giving instruction
and doing woman’s missionary work wherever
she went. Her labors have been abundantly
blest, and wherever she has traveled she has
sown the seeds of love, union, kindness and hu-
mility, and they are springing up and bearing
much rich fruit in the hearts and lives of the
women and children throughout the valleys of
the mountains.


RETROSPECTION.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

 In looking over my past life I can plainly see
the overruling hand of providence and realize
that I was favored in being blessed with par-
ents who when they heard the voice of the true
shepherd, listened and followed Him and were
willing to accept of salvation at the risk of
losing their good name. As I grew up I was
more or less fascinated by the allurements of
the world and there was many a hard struggle
between my love for them and desire to be
saved. The germ was there but it took time
and patient care, and much watering from
the pure fountain before it gave evidence that
it had taken root or would spring forth to bear
fruit. There were times when I wondered if
religion by some other name would not do just
as well. I thought of the contrast between our
circumstances and those of our kinkred who


[Column 1]
were enjoying wealth and worldly homes while
we were not only enduring privation but were
looked down upon and despised by the most of 
them and the people at large, and I saw a dif-
ference even in our own midst; those who could
dress the finest were the ones who were most
respected and admired, and they in turn looked
upon those that did not dress and make as fine
an appearance as themselves; this had always
been the case; as a sample I will relate a little
circumstance that happened to me when a little
child, which no doubt helped to mold my fu-
ture character. 
   School was out for noon and I having an
apple one of my mates asked me for a piece of 
it when I handed her the apple, as she was
biting it another girl some five years our senior
whose parents were well off and had not as yet
been called to leave their home or sacrifice any
property, with a proud look said- "I wouldn't
touch her apple;" one of her companions asked
why? When she said why "her father's poor,"
the other laughingly replied "I'm sure he don't
look very poor," meaning in flesh. Having a 
proud and sensitive nature her words stung
me and though I said nothing I remembered
It. This was the first time that I ever realized
that I was poor or that poverty was considered
any disgrace. We had a comfortable home
and orchard and I had not wanted for any 
thing, and was much better off than numbers
of my little mates, but to the sequel. Years
passed which brought many changes and when
in my teens this same girl took a great fancy to 
me and sought me for a companion though I 
was so much the youngest. Our acquaintance
ended in a deep and lasting friendship; and
though our circumstances were afterwards re-
versed I never referred to it and she most likely
never knew how she wounded me, when I was
a poor man's child. I am very sorry to have it
to say that there is too much of this spirit
manifested among us now, not only in the hearts 
of some of the children but older ones are
guilty who bear the name of Latter-day Saints
and should be more exemplary but instead are 
stumbling blocks to the weak, as well as a re-
proach to the cause which we have espoused. 
I confess that there were times when I wished
that my father had never heard of "Mormon-
ism" and then we might have been rich instead
of which he had given his money and all his 
time from the beginning, and left us with barely
enough to subsist upon. I thought that worldy
riches would bring happiness, and I believed that
if my father would only leave the "Mormons"
and return to his former home, he would soon
accumulate wealth and I fancied that life there
would be one round of pleasure and worldy
enjoyments; but these temptations were only
momentary, being of a hopeful nature the cloud
would soon burst and I could see a bright fut-
ure in imagination. I was always indulging in 
castle building, and my pleasures were too of-
ten anticipated and very seldom realized, until
experience taught me to take such things as
they came and enjoy to-day and let to-morrow
take care of itself. Until my faith was estab-
lished and I knew for myself that this work
was true, and that my future happines or misery
depended upon the course I took here whether
I received or rejected the principles contained
in the everlasting Gospel, I was like a ship
without an anchor liable to be tossed to and fro
by the various trials and temptations that beset
me. When a child I had perfect faith and
confidence to ask  God because I knew no-
thing of the opposite power and my faith had
not been tested. I believed this to be the true
church because my parents did and I trusted
to their judgment believing all they told me to 
be true. What a responsibility there is resting
upon parents. I can truly say the Lord has
been very good to me and I consider that I 
was exceedingly fortunate in being blessed with
affectionate and wise parents who gave me

[Column 2]timely advice and admonition, though it was 
not always agreeable and I was incapable of ap-
preciating it at the time, but how often I look
back with a grateful heart that I was preserved
from falling into the snares set to lead the youth
of Zion down to perdition. To my young
friends who may have experienced similar
trials I will say "seek first the kingdom of God 
and its righteousness and all other things shall be
added thereto;" for this is the only legitimate
way for us to obtain happiness; I kvow this to be
true and would that it were possible for me to
impress it upon the minds of the youth that
they might not have to suffer sorrow and per-
haps despair and everlasting woe. How truth-
ful are the following lines from Pollock's Coures
of Time. Love God, love truth, love virtue, 
and be happy. 
	"These were the words first uttered in the ear
	Of every being made, and made
	For thought, or word, or deed accountable.
	Most men the first forget, the second none. 
	Whatever path they took by hill or vale,
	By night or day, the universal wish,
	The aim, and sole intent was happiness:
	But erring from the heaven-appointed path,
	Strange tracks they took through barren wastes,
	And up the sandy mountain climbing tolled,
	Which pining lay beneath the curse of God,
	And naught produced: yet did the traveller look,
	And point his eye before him greedily,
	As if he saw some verdant spot where grew
	The heavenly flower, where sprung the well of life,
	Where undisturbed felicity reposed;
	Though wisdom's eye no vestige could discern,
	That happiness had ever passed that way.

	Wisdom was right, for still the terms remained
	Unchanged, unchangeable, the terms on which
	True peace was given to man; unchanged as God,
	Who, in his own essential nature, binds
	Eternally to virtue happiness;
	Nor lets them part through all his Universe."
   This book if read with care, might prove a 
great benefit to the young and thoughtless in
bringing their minds to reflect upon what is of
the greatest importance; the day "when all will
be called to give an account of the deeds done
in the bodg," and not wait until, the day has
come and, "The hour of grace,
	"The final hour of grace is fully past.
	The time accepted for repentance, faith,
	And pardon, is irrevocably past;
	And justice unaccompanied, as wont,
	With mercy, now goes forth, to give to all
	According to their deeds. Justice alone;
	For why should mercy, any more be joined?
	What hath not mercy, mixed with judgement, done,
	That mercy mixed with judgment and reproof,
	Could do? 'Did I not revelation  make,"
	Plainly and clearly, of my will entire?
	Before them set my holy law, and give
	Them knowledge, wisdom, prowess, to obey,
	And win by self-wrought works, eternal life?
	Rebelled, did I not send them terms of peace,
	Which, not my justice, but my mercy asked?-
	Terms costly to my well-beloved Son;
	To them gratuitous, exacting faith
	Alone for pardon, works evincing faith?
	Have I not early risen, and set my Seers,
	Prophets, apostles, teachers, ministers,
	With signs and wonders, working in my name?
	Have I not still, from age to age, raised up,
	As I saw needful great religious men,
	Gifted by me with large capacity,
	And by my arm omnipotent uphled,
	To pour the numbers of my mercy forth,
	And roll my judgments on the ear of man?
	And lastly when the promised hour was come,
	What more could  most abundant mercy do?"
   I hope to be pardoned for quoting so much
from this Poem but much that he describes I 
know to be true having been taught these great
and important lessons in the school of experi-
ence. The principles contained in this the
Gospel of Christ are so clearly set forth and
explained by Him that no Latter-day Saint
who will read this work can doubt that he was

[Column 3]gifted with inspiration for his mind soared above
the vain things around him. On the first page
he writes,
	The muse, that soft and sickly wooes the ear
	Of love, or chanting loud in windy rhyme
	Of fabled hero, raves through gandy tale
	Not overfraught with sense, I ask not; such
	A strain befits not argument so high.

	"Hold my right hand, Almighty! and me teach
	To strike the lyre, but seldom struck to notes
	Harmonious with the morning stars, and pure
	As those of sainted bards, and angels sang,
	Which wake the echoes of eternity-
	That fools may hear and tremble, and the wise
	Instructed listen of ages yet to come."
   The Author of this book was certainly a re-
markable man raised up and inspired to write
it but the labor was so arduous that it affected
his health and cost him his life he dying in the 
twenty-ninth year of his age. His grave bears
the following inscription:

"The Grave of
Robert Pollock, AM.,
Author of "The Course of Time,"
His Immortal Poem
In His 
Monument.
Erected by Admirers of His Genius."
   If the mist or vail which hides the Eternities
from our view could only be removed for a mo-
ment and we could have a slight glimpse of 
things as they are there oh, how vain and worth-
less the things around us would seem. Would
any of us condescend to read novels or be will-
ing to waste a moment of the time allotted to 
us to prepare ourselves to dwell there? I think
not, then why not listen and obey the voice of 
wisdom, and ever seek for the spirit that can
lift our hearts above the paltry things around
us enabling us to cultivate that love which sur-
passeth all understanding that will fill our
hearts with meekness, mercy and charity to-
wards our fellow beings. Our Savior said "If
you do right in all other things and lack charity
ye are not mine," and also "To do unto others
as you would have them do unto you." Every-
thing in the world is so uncertain and change-
able that a person who is wealthy to-day may
be a beggar to-morrow and vice versa; so would
it not be better for us all to show civility and
even politeness to one another? Jesus said,
"This is my commandment, that ye love one
another, as I have loved you," and "If the
world hate you, ye know that it hated me before
it hated you, "If ye were of the world the world
would love its own. "If they have persecuted
me, they will also persecute you:" The people
of the world must be very blind not to see the
facts as they are or how can they deny that
this is the true Church of Christ! I hope that
these few scattered ideas and reflections may
help to stimulate and stir up the pure minds
in the way of remembeance that in the last
day we may not be found on the left hand of 
our Father when He utters these awful words,
	"Ye knew your duty, but ye did it not."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


IN the university of Kansas a woman fills
the chair of Greek language and literature,
Miss Kate Stephens, she has held the position
three years.
 JENNIE June has gone to spend the season in
Europe. Miss Sprague "The Earnest Trifler"
has gone abroad for the summer. Bishop Hav-
en at the American Woman's Rights Meeting
at Des Moines, Iowa said "Only the ballot in the
hands of women can save this nation from
bankruptcy in finances, minds and morals. As
a nation of drunkards they will entail heredi-
tary diseases and vitiated tastes not upon sons
oply, but upon the daughters, the mothers of
men also.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A LETTER TO A GIFTED SISTER

	BY HANNAH T. KING.

Think not my dear Sister, tho' silent l’ve been.
I've forgotten that sweet, and remarkable scene,
That a week ago yesterday gladden’d my eyes,
And fill’d me with rapture, with joy and surprise! 
With rapture and joy that thy spirit was free,
With surprise—for I knew not such gift were in thee;
And thy prayer was so humble, so childlike and pure,
It had power the Spirit of God to allure!
It softened each one, and awaken’d a tear
In every eye—as it fell on the ear;—
The chords of sweet love bound us, body and mind
And made us feel loving, forgiving and kind.
No spirit was there but the spirit of love,
His presence we felt tho’ we saw not the "Dove"
This essence of God on that meeting did fall
And richly, and lovingly blest one and all!
With love in our hearts and faith In our prayers;
The “wheat” was so full, there was no room for tares.
It seemed that one spirit pervaded the place,
So richly the spirits, commingled by grace!
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ fill’d each heart 
And Unity, concord, and peace did impart!
Hush! now you broke forth in that heavenly “tongue"
And rapture, in silence [heared] every one!
It seemed to my rapt, and recipient ear—
That a spirit had come from a holier sphere
To bring such glad tidings to comfort my heart 
To build up my soul, and fresh strength to impart;
For I’d been in deep waters for some time before
Tho’ that day, my bosom its bright feelings bore;
As tho’ a sweet foretaste was over me cast
Of good things to come, and of those that were past; 
And I joined in the circle to work for the poor;
Little dreaming such blessings were for me in store!
How free was your spirit! how fluent your tongue!
Twas plain by whoso sweet inspiration you sung;
You seemed to my fancy an Angel on earth
Or rather your speech seemed of heavenly birth;—
But if faith, love, and prayer can Inspire a heart
No marvel you bore such a wonderful part;
For all the assembly upheld you, by these
Without any effort, so much did you please;
And each heart on its tablet has noted the day
In its own prism tints, that will ne’er pass away!
Oh! may we all live for the blessings you spake
And carefully watch every movement we make;
For we know that the tempter all people will try
But in Israel’s God, all his arts we defy;
Our hearts are all right but frail nature is weak,
For wisdom to guide let us faithfully seek;
Her paths lead to pleasure, to peace, and sweet joy.
Her coin Is all sterling and needs no alloy!
And by her sweet aid we may hope to attain
The rich blessings of life, with much less of the pain;
For when we walk wisely, we ever walk well, 
'Twas for lack of this wisdom whenever we fell.
Like children we sometimes get reckless and free,
And forget for the moment how wise we should be.
Forget that the battle is yet to be won,
And the race to the swiftest has yet to be run!—
We never can say, that our warfare Is done,
That the race is completed, the battle is won,
Till death comes along with his scythe and his dart,
And closes the pulses, and seals up the, heart— 
Then let us like watchmen, be ever awake, 
Beholding each movement our enemies make,
Let us see that our armor is ready and bright,
Let us muster our forces by day and by night,
And let us remember the talents He’s given,  
If rightly expended will help to make Heaven!
Tho’ trials await us on every hand,
By strength from above we’re enabled to stand;
And every trial, like waves of the sea
Roll over and leave us, both stronger and free!
We learn to sit loose to the baubles of Time
And all the frail treasures each fondly calls “mine,”—
But now I must close up this heart felt address
And in blessing I ask the great Father to bless
You my Sister with wisdom, with meekness to bear
The trials of life, and escape every snare,
That Satan or wicked ones artfully lay
To entrap us if we but a moment should stray;
Let your mind be a kingdom, to you has been given
Such talents as fit and prepare one for Heaven!
If rightly expended, if rightly laid out
Your own exaltation, they will bring about;
Where the goal of Eternity all can obtain,
There crown’d as a Queen, with the righteous you'll reign.


JESSE BURNS,
			OR,
		WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	She told Mr. Wyvil of Jesse's letter and of
her answer. She prayed fervently and stead-
fastly that she might be enabled to do her
duty and trust in God that all might turn out
for her best good. She consoled herself by
thinking that if Jesse drank, as she was told
he did, life with him would not be as happy as
it had been, and no doubt she was better off
where she was.
	Minnie went to school that winter, and the
following spring secured a position as teacher
in a district school. As she lived some dis-
tance from the schoolhouse, and her health
was poor, she made arrangements to board with
some friends, in order to avoid the long walk.
	One morning, while preparing for school, a
little girl came in and said that a gentlemau
was waiting at Brother Jones' to see her. The
child was so mysterious and excited that Min-
nie began to suspect who the stranger might
be, and went chasing across lots at a very un-
dignified pace, to be caught in the arms of her 
own father. They were both so delighted to
meet that it took some time to calm their ex-
citement. When at last she thought of her
school and proposed to going to attend to it, her
father bade her dismiss it. He had plenty of
means, he said, and his children were all he
had to care for now; he would provide for
them, and the should not work for a living.
His business had prospered, and they should,
at last, be repaid for their long years of priva-
tion, and never again, while he was blessed with
means, should they want for anything necessary
for their comfort or happiness.
	Minnie felt under obligations to fill her en-
gagement; but he would not listen to it, so she
gladly complied with his commands, and going
to the schoolhouse called the pupils together and
dismissed them. The children gathered around
her, many of them weeping, and expressed
their regret at losing her for a teacher, for they
all loved her. Minnie herself could not regret
it, for teaching was trying work, both to her
health and patience; but in the midst of  her
rejoicing, she could not forget that there was a
skeleton at the feast. It was the position of
her mother as the wife of another man. It
was deep grief to her that her mother could
not share in her rejoicing. From the school-
house she went home to break the news to 
mother, and bring Nettie to see her father. It
was a strange day for Jesse- to be near Mary
after so many years' separation, and know that
she was not his. To meet her as the wife of
another, and know that he must not fold her
in his arms as he so longed to do; but he must
be content to see his children. He had thought
he could not bear it, but his longing for his
little girls overcame every other feeling, and
for their sakes he came.
	Poor Mary could no longer conceal her feel-
ings; Jesse had come and she must not see
him; he was near her and not for her. Oh,
how dreadful to her in her hour of trial seemed
the ties that bound her. She had never been
estranged in her feelings. She had accepted
the inevitable, and given him up because she
must, but her love for him was as deep as ever.
Now she was bound to another, and an insur-
passable barrier lay between them. Her forti-
tude deserted her, and she could only weep
and deplore the fate that separated them.
How small and mean then seemed all the con-
siderations that had influenced her to marry
again. She would have waited and striven to
get along some way, if she had only known he
would come to her. "She might have known
it!' SHe might have known that he did not
get her letter! that he was jealous and angry
when he wrote, but he would feel better when
he received her letter. She should have waited
and shown him there was no foundation for his
jealousy; but she had not done so, she had
taken a course to prove to him that his suspic-
ions were correct. "She had lost his confi-
dence, and he would always think meanly of
her." All the long day she tortured herself
with these reflections. It mattered not what
any one thought, she was broken down and her
feelings were beyond control.
	Jesse brought the girls home at night in a
carriage. He had taken them shopping, and
bought them a great many nice things, besides
the presents of silks and jewelry he had brought
from California.
	Never before had Minnie known what it was
to spend money without stint, without calculat-
ing just what was need and how much it would
cost. It was a happy day after all; for what
young heart, with so much to brighten it, can
long remain in the shadow. She was not self-
ish in her demands, every one was thought of and
remembered with a share of her good fortune. 
Her mother was generously provided for, and
none of James Wyvil's family were neglected
or forgotten. She also made nice presents to
some of her associates. It was a day long to
be remembered by Jesse's thoughtful kind-
ness and generosity. She had, to, a source
of happiness in the welfare of her children, for
what mother can fail to be pleased when her
children are made comfortable and happy. 
	He called to see her, and talked with her on 
indifferent subjects, giving her his money to
take care of with the oldtime trustfulness, for
following days were a round of holidays for
the children. Rides, theatres, dressmakers, 
and such enjoyments as they had always been
limited in, for they had never, since leaving
Nauvoo had an opportunity of sharing much
but the cares and responsibilities of life, with-
out much pastime or amusement.
To be continued.


INDIVIDUALITY IN DRESS.
				----
	The efforts of intelligent women to adopt a
style of dress more conducive to health and
comfort than now prevails, have been thwarted
by the inexorable conservatism of a majority of
women and men. The Boston Advertiser re-
marks:
	“Dresss reform, as reform, has never made
much progress in this country, nor indeed in
any other. So far as dressing is a matter of
taste or personal comfort, the reformers have
never been able to justify their mission. In-
deed, the laws of dress are made in a court
where the reformers have no standing what-
ever. Recently an attempt has been made in
London to release ladies from the tyranny of
mere fashion by an association called the “Rat-
ional Dress Society.” The association proposes
to assist ladies that desire to be free, through
the agency of drawing-room meetings, the dis-
tribution of “rational” patterns, and by friendly
advice given in pamphlets and the newspapers.
Every lady is to be permitted to consult her
own taste and convenience, with the sole con-
dition that her attire shall be pleasing to the
eye and conducive to health and comfort.
	One thing should be said for English women
in the matter of dress. There is much more
freedom felt and exercised by them than shown
in the United States. Women consult their
own taste and convenience far more generally
there than here. We hope the “Rational Dress
Association” will encourage individuality in
dress; If it do nothing more it will have done
a good work -- Ex.					JANE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		  THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
______________________________________________

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonperall space, one
time, $2.50 per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher Woman's Exponent.
				Salt Lake City Utah.SALT LAKE CITY,		-		    JULY 1, 1881.


THE MEMORABLE FOURTH.
				-----
	The fourth of July, 1831, the anniversary of
the birth of a great Republican nation, is to be
celebrated here with patriotic enthusiasm. It
is a day of national rejoicing, and should be
honored and regarded by the people who sustain
the principles upon which this government was
founded. Freedom for all, whatever their reli-
gious faith may be. It was for this our forefa-
thers suffered, fought and many died, that they
might establish a government and found a
country wherein all might "worship God ac-
cording to the dictates of their own consciences.”
The celebration is to take place at Mill Farm
Park, which on that occasion is to be christened
Liberty Park. Tables will be spread under the
trees, and no doubt every luxury of the season
will be furnished by the several committees on
picnic. A number of oxen and sheep are to be
roasted whole and served up to the company. It
is a charming spot and the trees will afford grate-
ful shelter under the July sun. The exercises
are to be short and appropriate. “The Star
Spangled Banner” will be sung by the choir,
Hon. John T. Caine will read the Declaration
of Independence, and Orson F. Whitney, Esq.,<j., will="" be="" the="" orator="" of="" day.="" '="" tliere="" some="" other="" <exercises,="" alsogames="" ,and,general="" amusemenisof="" various="" kinds,jand="" dancing,="" for="" which="" a="" platform="" has="" peen="" made.="" it;="" is;="" antic!-="" patl,="" that,="" celebration="" an="" enjoyable="" affair,="" v...="" <="" div="">
will be the Orator of the Day.  There will be
some other exercises, also games and general
amusements of various kinds, and dancing, for
which a platform has been made.  It is antici-
pated that the celebration will be an enjoyable
affair.


HONOR TO THE SILVER GREYS.
				------
	The annual excursion for the old folks of this
city and vicinity took place June 22d, the 88th
anniversary of the birth of Presiding Bishop
Edward Hunter.  The place of destination was
Farr's Grove, Ogden City, distant by train forty
miles, and about three miles' ride from the de-
pot.  The old people were "as happy as happy
could be," meeting each other and exchanging
friendly greetings; many of them were over the
age of three score and ten.  A careful commit-
tee had arranged everything for the comfort and
enjoyment of the party.  Presidents John Tay-
lor, George Q. Cannon and Wilford Woodruff,
also Bishops Edward Hunter and L. W. Hardy,
of the Church authorities, were with the party,
and participated in the enjoyments of the day.
There were thirteen cars well filled.  Two ladies
and two gentlemen of the company were over
ninety, and fifty were over eighty years old.  
The whole company, it is said, numbered six
hundred and fifty persons.
	Each person over ninety received a silver
medal with a ribbon attached, and when the 
gifts were presented, they wept for joy like chil-
dren.  Refreshments were handed through all
the cars on the way, and a special choir sang
suitable songs, making sweet melody, which was
and excellent treat for all.
	The good people of Ogden City had prepared
carriages and wagons to convey all from the de-
pot to the grove, where tables were spread and
ample provision made to make them comfortable
for the day.  Apostle F.D. Richards, President
D. H. Peery and other local authorities of We-
ber County, also Hon. Lorin Farr, were present
doing all in their power to entertain their guests.
	After partaking of refreshments, the
company assembled for the exercises, where a
large platform and benches had been arranged to 
seat the people.  The choir sang the anthem,
"Come, let us go up to the mountain of the
Lord," composed by Bro. E. Stevens, of Willard,
a young man of considerable musical and poeti-
cal genius.
	Prest. Woodruff offered prayer, music by the
Ogden brass band, a speech of welcome from
Weber County by President Peery, in which he
referred to the great honor paid to Bishop Hun-
ter.  "Few men lived, " said he, "who could ob-
tain such respect as was paid now to this veteran,
born in 1793, who had lived in the days of Wash-
ington."  Bishop Hunter followed in an elo-
quent speech, relating some of the pleasant reminis-
cences of the past, and congratulating himself
upon being associated with the Saints in these
mountain vales.  Spoke feelingly of the glorious
Constitution of our country and the Declaration
of Independence, and told the people he enlisted
as a volunteer as soon as he was old enough, and
served faithfully seven years, receiving an hon-
orable discharge, which he had still preserved.
He had always been imbued with the spirit of a
patriot, but after joining this Church and gather-
ing to Nauvoo he was accused of treason, al-
though he had broken no law or given any cause
for the accusation, etc., etc.
	Supt. Monch, in behalf of the Sunday Schools
of Ogden then presented, with a pleasing
speech, a testimonial to Bishop Hunter, as a
token of their appreciation of his useful life and
labors.  It was a large memento, handsomely
framed, containing the portraits, appropriately
arranged, of Presidents Joseph Smith, Brigham
Yonng, John Taylor, and of the aged Bishop.
At the top of either corner are the book of Mor-
mon and Doctrine and Covenants.
	The whole, with the exception of the photo-
graphs, is elegantly executed with the pen by
Prof. A. J. Phelps.  
	Below are the following words, and the poem
we have published on the first page:
	"Testimonial to Bishop Edward Huntr, pre-
sented in behalf of the Sunday Schools of Og-
den City, on the 22nd of June, 1881, being the
88th anniversary of his birthday, when he visit-
ed Ogden with the Old Folks' Excursion.  This
presentation is tendered as a token of affection
and esteem, in which the faithful veteran, to
whom it is made, is held by the donors. The
world at large hold up the lives of their great
men, that the young may follow theri illustrious
footsteps.  The Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints can proudly do the same, furnish-
ing some of the brightest examples that grace
the pages of history.  Among the individualities
that will be thus presented, Bishop Hunter will
always find a prominent place.  His purity and
simplicity of character and untarnished integri-
ty should be never failing objects of emulation
by the youth of Israel.  May the God of our
fathers bless him forever."
	President Taylor made a short pithy speech,
speaking in terms of great reverence of the
Bishop and his faithfulness and integrity, and
closed by blessing the whole congregation.  Pre-
sents of different kinds were distributed to the
oldest people present and those from different
localities, consisting of parasols, canes, dress pat-
terns, packages of tea and coffee, and a variety
of useful things.
	Elder George Goddard, in behalf of the com-
mittee, tendered thanks to the people of Ogden,
and prayed that God might bless them a hun-
dred fold.  Hoped to acknowledge their kindness
by inviting them all next year to enjoy them-
selves at Mill Farm Park, in Salt Lake City.
Choir sang "Auld Lang Syne," and benediction
was pronounced by President George Q. Cannon.
	The party returned home in safety, feeling re-
freshed and strengthened in body and mind.


THE COMET.
				----
 It is needless to announce the appearance of a
comet in the heavens, as it is the talk of the
town at present, and it seems to be greatly ad-
mired. It is indeed very beautiful as well as
wonderful. Notwithstanding the researches of
astronomers and scientists, there is still some
mystery about the appearance and disappear-
ance of these heavenly bodies. They are very
erratic in their course, and one’s ideas and theo-
ries on the subject are very likely to be upset, if
positive calculations are made of their coming
or going. Anciently comets were looked upon
as sure precursors of dire disaster by land or sea,
but people have become so matter-of-fact now-
a-days, that it is unpopular to express a belief in
any of these old fashioned signs. But certain it
is the scripture says: “There shall be signs in the
heavens,” etc.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	THE Ladies' Conference of this Stake of Zion
was held in this city, June 17th and 18th.  Full
particulars will be published in our next issue.
	THE machinery for weaving silk, ordered from
Patterson, New Jersey, by the Utah Silk Asso-
ciation, has arrived in Provo.
	PROF. J. G. Lemmon and wife from California
Academy of science have been spending a few
days about the country looking up Utah plants,
at the same time getting a few items about the
Mormons.
	SISTER M. Isabella Horne and her daughter
Miss Mattie Horne started for Bear Lake Valley
Monday morning June the 27, to visit friends in
that vicinity, and do a little missionary work
among the Societies in that locality.
	SISTERS E. R. Snow Smith, Zina D. H.
Young, Ellen C. S. Clawson and Louie Felt,
went to Sugar House Ward on Wednesday June
19th to attend a special meeting called by the
Bishop, for the purpose of organizing a Primary
Association in the Ward.
	THE sudden death of Mrs. Fanny Decher Lit-
tle, wife of Mayor Little, of this city, has cast
a gloom over many besides the bereaved house-
hold.  She was a most devoted mother and af-
fectionate wife.  She will be deeply and sincere-
ly mourned by a host of true friends.
	WE have had the pleasure to meet of late
some very interesting people, who have been
visiting this city, seeing the sights and making 
the acquaintance of a few Mormons. Among
them the sister and daughter of the famous
Julia Ward Howe, of Boston, Mass.  Mrs. Annie
W. Milliard, of San Rafael and her neice Miss
Maud Howe, of Boston;  the young lady accom-
panied her mother in her travels on the conti-
nent of Europe and in the holy land, and to all
appearance adapts herself well to the life of a
tourist. She was on her way to California to
spend a few weeks with her aunt at her home in
the West.


WE acknowledge with thanks the invitation
received from Washington to attend the meet-
ing of the Social Science Association, at the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Spencer, in that
city, June 25th, and regret that circumstances
prevented our being present on that occasion,
but heartily wish the ladies and all engaged in
the work "God speed."
	JUDGE Daniel Tyler of Beaver has been in the
city a few days, making arrangements for the
publication of the History of the Mormon Bat-
talion, wkich he has for some time been occupied
in preparing for the press.  It is to be published
at the office of the Juvenile Instructor.  Due
notice will be given of the time of its being is-
sued.
	SESTERS Sarah M. Kimball and Sarepta M.
Heywood recently made a short visit to the
Southern Settlements in Juab and a part of San-
pete Co.  They met with the Relief Society and
Primary Association in several places. They
report crops looking well, people prosper-
ous and a good spirit pervailing among the
Saints; the thrift and industry being something
wonderful.
	ON the 24th, in company with S. M. Kimball
and M. I. Horne we went to Mill Creek to at-
tend an annual meeting of the Primary Associa-
tions of the four districts.  Mrs. E. C. S. Claw-
son and Camilla Cobb also attended.  There
were two sessions, forenoon and afternoon.  In-
teresting exercises by the children and speeches
by the ladies.  These Associations were organ-
ized just one year ago and they show a marked
improvement already.
	FRIDAY morning June 25 we had the pleasure of
being called upon by three gentlemen who came
direct from Paris the Comte de Eurgot, Charles
Boggio and F. Osorio.  The last named is a native
of Madrid Spain and Secretary of the Spanish
Legatin at Paris.  They expressed themselves
much pleased with the city and the mountain
scenery, said it reminded them of Heidleberg
Germany.  They have started on a trip around
the world.  We wish them a safe and pleasant 
journey.
	SISTERS Eliza R. S. Smith and Zina D. H.
Young returned Saturday evening June 25th
from their visit to Brigham City and Malad
Valley.  They were absent about 13 days, at-
tended the Conference of R.S. Y.L.M.I.A.,
and P. A., of Box Elder Stake held in Brigham
City, and afterwards held meetings in adjacent
settlements, and them went on to Malad valley
holding meetings and giving good counsel and
instruction, wherever they traveled among the
people.
	IT is exceedingly painful to record the acci-
dental death of our dear friend, Mrs. Josephine
Schettler, which occurred June 19th, caused by
being strangled in the salt water at the Lake,
before any one could render her assistance.  We
deeply sympathize with her lonely and bereaved
companion, and her beloved mother, from whom
the light of day has been shut out so many
years, her husband also being an invalid and
greatly dependant upon his wife, needs the
comfort and consolation of the Holy Spirit to
bear him up under this severe affliction.
"Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and
scourgeth every soul whom He receiveth."  
	ON Thursday, the 7th inst., a grand benefit
entertainment is to be given, in the 21st Ward
Meeting House, to the widow and children of
the late Wm. E. Knight, who was accidentally
killed in E. Brain's brickyard in this city, on
Saturday, June 25th, 1881.  The programme
will consist of songs, recitations, etc., concluding
with the laughable force of "The Omnibus."
Prof. Jos. J. Daynes has kindly consented to pre-
side at the organ.  Sister Knight, with her hus-
band and family recently came from New Zea-
land to this city, having emigrated with a small
company of Saints under the direction of Elder
George Batt, who arrived in this city about six
weeks ago.  The enterprise is a laudable one, and
we hope the entertainment will be well patron-
ized.
	A METEOR.--On Tuesday evening, June 28th, 
about 9.30, as a lady was watching the comet,
which is now attracting public attention, she
was surprised at seeing her shadow vividly pro-
jected on the ground, and supposing some person
had come up with a lantern, turned quickly and
to her amazement saw a magnificent meteor
flashing across the western hemisphere.  It re-
sembled a globe of fire and passed from north to
southwest, describing an arc of a circle just be-
neath Ursa Major.  The meteor was visible
about three seconds and a half, and divided just
before it disappeared into three distinct portions.
Two magnificent falling stars accompanied the
phenomenon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM

"Then fell upon the house a sudden gloom,
  A shadow on those features fair and thin;
	And softly from that hushed and darkened room,
	Twon angles issued where but one went in."
								-LONGFELLOW.
	The announcement of the death of Mrs. Ann
Maria Whitney Hall, which took place June 27,
1881, will be read with sorrow by a host of friends
of former days, as well as many who have been
intimately associated with her in later years.
Mrs. Hall was widely known in this city and vi-
cinity, and was highly respected by all. She
was especially endeared to her friends and rela-
tives on account of the many attractive and ge-
nial qualities of her noble heart, which emin-
ently fltted her to shine in the social and domes-
tic circle. In her younger life she was what the
world would term a magnetic woman drawing
all hearts towards her instinctively. Although
perhaps not designated as beautiful as some wo-
men, yet possessing in a wonderful degree the
womanly power of fascination which is always
so charming. A pleasing address and melodious
voice qualified her to entertain easily and grace-
fully; and an innate refinement of manner won
all hearts, and many of the sterner sex bowed at
her shrine. The lady, who is the subject of this
sketch, was born in an early day in the history
of this Church October 1st, 1836, in Kirtland,
Ohio. Her parents were Bishop Newel K. (de-
ceased) and Elizabeth Ann Whitney. While
she was yet a babe they left Kirtland to go up to
Missouri, but hearing while upon the way that
the Saints had been driven from their homes,
stopped in Carleton, Illinois, until Commerce
(afterwards Nauvoo) was settled, when they re-
paired thither. In the beautiful city of Nauvoo,
Ann Maria passed her childhood. At the time
of the exodus, when she was nine years old or
not quite ten, the writer remembers well her
cheerful, happy manner and her kind attentions
to parents, brothers and sisters, and her affabili-
ty to all those in any way connected with the
family.
	She was married May 2d, 1866, to Erastus F.
Hall, the ceremony being performed by Presi-
dent Heber C, Kimball. Mrs. Hall has been
the mother of five children, four sons and one
daughter; three of them have died in infancy;
two remain, one fourteen and the other six years
old, and they mourn as kind and indulgent a
mother as ever lived. Her devotion as a wife
and mother of a family was most exemplary,
and her tender watchfulness of her aged mother,
to whom she was fondly attached, approached
the sublime.

	Mrs. Hall died from puerperal fever nine days
after her confinement.
	The funeral was held at the residence in the
17th Ward, and was attended by many of the
dear friends of former days. The services were
conducted by Bishop John Tingey, and were
opened by singing, “O, my Father, thou that
dwellest.” Prayer by the Bishop. Singing,
“Sister, thou wast mild and lovely.” Remarks
by Dr. Doremus, Counselor D.H. Wells, Presid-
ing Bishop Edward Hunter and Elder Joseph
C. Kingsbury. The last two very old friends re-
ferred to the friendship and associations of for-
mer days. Services closed by singing, “Fare-
well all earthly honors.” Benediction by Elder 
Joseph C. Kingsbury.
	The coffin was literally covered with exquisite
flowers, of which Mrs. Hall was a passionate ad-
mirer. The remains were followed to the ceme-
tery by a large number of sorrowing relatives
and friends, where the last sacred rites were
performed. Prayer was offered and the grave
dedicated by Counselor D. H. Wells. May our
Heavenly Father bless the bereaved family, the
loving husband, the dear lonely children, the
aged mother and all who mourn their dear friend
and sister. The writer was intimately acquaint-
ed and fondly attached to Mrs. Hall, and feels
that she has truly parted with a sister.

“What a world were this,
How unendurable its weight, if they
Whom death had sunder'd, did not meet again."
								—Southey.
								E. B. W.


SERICULTURE.

	Report of some of the settlements of Sevier
Stake of Zion, which was organized May 6,
1879, for the purpose of sericulture.
			RICHFIELD.
	Receipts.--By donation, $104.43; potatoes
raised to the amount of $18.00; parties,
$17.90; received from Grass Valley, $4.50;
fencing material donated, $8.41; labor, $34.66;
total, $187.90.
	Disbursed for city lot, fencing material, la-
bor, etc., $144.83.
	We have some silkworms, under the able
superintendency of Sister Annie Hansen,
agent.
				ELSINORE.
	Received, $5.00; disbursed for trees, books,
silkworm eggs, $3.10; on hand, $2.00.
			ANNIE C. LARSEN, Agent.
				SALINA.
	Donations, $8.32; oats raised to the amount
of $3.67; received by parties, $10; total,
$21.99.
	Disbursements.--Deeds on city lot, $8.55;
other expenses, $6.83; total, $15.38; on hand,
$6.61.
		CATHERINE F. MARTIN, Agent.
				MONROE.
	We have some eggs, and are trying to raise
some silk this summer; The sisters take quite
an interest in planting mulberry trees, and are
trying to make a success of silk raising.
				MARY SWINDLE, Agent.
			GLENWOOD.
	Received to purchase with, $6.00. We have
also obtained a piece of land, but it is not yet
under cultivation. We hope to make a suc-
cess of this branch of home industry.
			LOUISIANNA HEPPLER, Agent.
			MARY MARSH, Secretary.


The Marquis of Lorne, it is said will return
to England in the fall.  The Princess Louise
will not visit Canada this summer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
	REPORTS

	JUAB STAKE, P. A. 

	Report of the Primary Association of Juab
Stake of Zion. The Primary Associations of
the South and North wards of Nephi held their
second annual meeting May 30th, 1881. Stake
President Mrs. Hannah Grover presiding.
The stand was occupied by the officers of the
Relief Society and Primary Associations, also
some of the brethren. After the usual open-
ing exercises, Sister Grover made a few appro-
priate remarks. The remaining time was taken 
up by songs, recitations, dialogues and a select
reading which were rendered in a very credit-
able manner. Under the able presidency of
Sister S. R. Andrews of the South Ward and
Sister Caroline Bigler of the North Ward, the 
children are visibly progressing.
	The Mona Primary Association held their
anniversary meeting June 1st, 1881. The 
meeting was conducted by Sister Eleanor Som-
erville, Pres. of the P. A. singing "Little
birdie in the tree," prayer by Brother W. Mc-
Conkie, singing, "God is always near me;"
which was followed by songs, recitations and 
dialogues from the members. Brother Thos
Robertson from Ordervile addressed a few en-
couraging remarks to the children; after which
Bishop Hawes spoke for a short time, also Sis-
ters H. Grover and M. A. Cazier from Nephi.
Candy, raisins and nuts, were then handed 
round to the children. The entertainment
showed the lively interest the little ones take in 
their Association. All enjoyed themselves and 
manifested a good spirit.
	The annual meeting of hte Levan Primary
Association was held May 28th 1881, commenc-
ing at 10 o'clock A.M. President E. Gardner
presiding. Bishop Aaggard, and Counselors,
the officers of the Relief Society were present, 
and a number of their parents. The meeting
opened by singing "Gladly meeting kindly
greeting," and "Open the door for the child-
ren." The President made a few remarks and 
gave a verbal report of the Association. The 
exercises of the meeting consisted of songs, re-
citations, dialogues and questions on the ten 
commandments. Bishop Aagard encouaged
the children to live pure and holy lives, said
he was pleased to see the progress made, and
commended them for the good order and  their 
willingness to perform their parts.
	Prizes were then awarded. An entertain-
	ent was given by the children in the evening
the proceeds of which went for the benefit of 
the Association.
	ADDIE SCHOFIELD, Stake Sec'y

	PROVO.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the 
Relief Society of Utah Co., held in Provo City 
May 27th 1881, Present on the stand, Pres-
ident Margaret T. Smoot, Counselor Mary-
John, Secretary and Corresponding Sec'y. Sis-
ter E. R. Snow, from Salt Lake City, was also 
with us, and as usual a few of the brethren of
the Priesthood met with us. Meeting opened
by singing and prayer. President Margaret T-
Smoot said, I am pleased to meet with you
again and see so many familiar faces. I am 
thankful that we are able to meet together, 
and that we are favored to-day with the pres-
ence of our beloved Sister Snow, for we all 
claim her; she is the head of our Relief Socie-
ties to counsel advise and guide us. I have 
been used to call on the brethren to speak first,
when there were any with us, but Sister Snow
says it is proper for us to speak first, and let
 the stronger follow the weak, that if we say 
anything that needs correcting it can be cor-
rected.

[COLUMN 2]
	Sister Snow said, I am pleased to behold so
many that I am favored to accept as fellow
laborers in this great cause. I respect the 
Priesthood as much as any one,  but if they speak
after us they can correct our errors if we make
any. We are all striving to do right. Obedi-
ence is our motto, there is no other safe ground
but perfect obedience, to every principle which
God has revealed. I consider this is a sacred
organization, and if we do not avail ourselves
of it , it will be our loss, I think it is im-
portant. Those duties that pertain to temporal
things are apt to engross our time, and we neg-
lect our eternal interests, and unless our minds
are stirred up continually we lose sight of them,
but by coming together our spirits gain strength.
We need spiritual food, and sometimes I fear 
our spirits witll be small, will not mature, and
will not be worthy to enter the presence of our
Father. We want to perform every duty for
He does not require more of us than we can
perform. When there is a duty to perform
the Lord gives us our own agency and then if 
we try to do it He will be sure to help us, but 
we must be willing, and this is a surety to suc-
cess, never neglect a duty, never leave a loop
hole for Satan to enter. The sisters are doing
a good work. We do not know what we would 
have been without these societies. Joseph
Smith said they always existed wherever 
there was a perfect organization of the Church,
and the Elect Ladies meant the Presidents of 
these Societies. The speaker advised the sis-
ters to read the revelation in the Doctrine and 
Covenants given to Emma Smith. We do not 
want to stop short of Celestial glory, for that 
is the only glory that secures to us our family
ties, that opens to us all our happiness, nothing 
should get between us and our religion, let the
spirit govern us instead of the flesh, there is no
dividing our interests, and to attain Celestial
glory will take all our powers, let us be up and 
doing; it will be our good works that will 
save us at last; let us try to encourage and 
save those that tare on the back ground and 
bring them back into the fold. Let us never
be discouraged and we will never fail. We
want to be as near like our heavenly Father
as we can. Let us have faith for our families
when they are sick, and let every mother teach
her children the principle of faith, or else they
cannot stand in the day of trail. If any of us 
lack faith in God let us seek to the Lord dil-
igently, "that we may receive of his holy Spirit."
I feel that we do not live as near him as we
should. What a comfort to know that our 
Heavenly Father has passed through the same 
as we are now passing through and can feel for 
us. We should be humble and prayerful our 
hearts lifted up to God continually and it will
soon be second nature. I feel that I love you 
all, and hope to meet you all and not one lost
is my desire, Amen.
	Pres. M. T. Smoot then introduced to the as-
sembly Sister E. S. Taylor, from Salt Lake
City, President of the Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Associations in all the Church. 
Sister Taylor said, I feel that we are not 
strangers for I have been associated with these
societies for 14 years-but it is the same faces
that generally meet us. The faithful few.
We do not lose anything by attending these
meetings, we feel our spiritual strenght re-
newed we learn a great deal. We feel that we 
have something worth living for. We cannot
attain to Celestial glory in ingnorance. I wish
to meet wit hthe Young Ladies of Provo this 
evening and hope to see as many as can come
out, etc. 
	Sister John endorsed all that had been said 
by the speakers this morning, and thought that 
we should all try and have faith in God in this 
trying time; etc. Prest. Sister Smoot said, we 
will now close our meeting and come together 
again this afternoon. I feel and suppose you
[COLUMN 3]
all do, that it is good to be here. Benediction
by Sister John. Afternoon, 1 P.M. Confer-
ence commenced by the usual exercises, after 
which Sister Snow gave the sisters some special
instructions. Bishop Johnson followed with a 
few remarks, endorsed every word of the the
remarks to-day, it is the word ofhte Lord to 
us. Sisters Holden and Tanner made a few
good remarks, followed by Mother Duke. Sis-
ter Zina Y. Williams spoke of the postponement
of the Primary Jubilee on account of so much
sickness in Provo at the present time, said the 
Primaries were doing well. There were 2227
names of the children put in the Jubilee box.
Ma Smoot said we are all engaged as we 
should be, let us purge our hearts that we be
not barren or unfruitful, let us lay aside the 
cares of the world and come to these meetings
and enjoy the full fruition of the Spirit of the
Lord. Let us live every day that we may be 
ready if called to-morrow. When we contem-
plate what we should be to enter our Father's
Kingdom, I fear we shall be lacking in many
things. I feel that we are blessed to-day in
the instructions we have received, I extend an 
invitaion to all the Bishops of the County to 
meet with us, we should be pleased to have 
them do so. It was proposed that the Jubilee 
box be kept by the President of the Society
and left by her in car in care of her successors in of-
fice, and a vote of the Conference was taken to
that effect. Conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Bishop Johnson. 
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y

	RICHFIELD

	We have lately been blessed by a visit from 
Sisters Zina D. Young and M. Isabella Horne,
and have so enjoyed it-I thought it might be
interesting to some of the readers of the EX-
PONENT.
	They arrived in Richfield on Wednesday;the 
25 of May and if one were to judge from their 
appearance,he would think their ride had been
in the pleasantest of cars, instead of a light,
spring carriage, over rough roads, they looked 
so cheerful, bright and pleasant.
	Thursday and Friday were spent in attend-
ing Conference, the first day being occupied by
the Relief Society, and the second day by the 
Y. L. M. I. A., and the Primary. The instruction 
and counsel given was good, and the Spirit of 
God filled our hearts with joy and peace. In 
the afternoon of hte second day, Miss Clara
Horne (who with her father and sister Mattie
were also visiting Richfield) arose and spoke in
tongues, and I never heard a sweeter language,
or a more melodious voice.-"The Spirit of 
God  like a fire was burning." There was scarce-
ly a dry eye in the congregation. Sister Young
interpreted it, and it was a poem of great and 
rare worth. It was the strongest testimony I 
have ever heard, and I have heard many here 
express themselves in the same manner. Miss
Mattie Horne, at the urgent request of the 
President, addressed the young ladies for a 
short time,  which went straight to the heart and
won the admiration and esteem of all present.
	On Saturday, Sister Young, the Sisters Horne, 
and the Presidencies of the R. S., Y. L. M. I,
A., and P. A., of this Stake visited Glenwood, 
and met with each of hte above named socie-
ties. Had a pleasant meeting,and a flow of the 
good Spirit, and all seemed edified and blessed.
We returned to Richfield in the evening, and 
remained over Sunday, and then the same
party, with the exception of the Misses Horne,
who had started home, visited the Southern
part of the County, which comprises, Inverury,
Elsinore, Joseph, Monroe ond Annabella, held 
three meetings in each place, (with the excep-
tion of Aunabella, where there is no organiza-
tion of the Y. L. M.,) one meeting with the R.


S., one with the Y.L.M., and one with the
P.A.
	The gifts of the Gospel were manifested both
in Elsinore and Monroe, and it was a great
source of pleasure and edification to the Saints,
and especially the young, many of them never
having heard anything of the kind before.
	We returned to Richfield Thursday evening,
and Friday was spent in rest, but on Friday
evening the sisters were surprised by a party
of brethren and sisters who met in the R.S.
hall, and enjoyed a few hours of talking, danc-
ing and music, and the partaking of a beautiful
picnic.  Saturday morning the sisters started
for home, intending to go through Sanpete, and
hold meeting in some of the settlements on the
way.
	The visit will never be forgotten, and I feel
safe in saying, our beloved Sisters Young and
Horne will ever have the love and prayers of
the sisters of this Stake of Zion.
	Minutes of the 7th Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Sevier Stake, of Zion.
Richfield, May 26, 1881.
	Present on the stand, Sisters Zina D. Young
and M. Isabella Horne, of Salt Lake, President
Elizabeth Bean and counselors of the Sevier
Stake, and Presidents of the different Wards.
Pres't Spencer, and Bros. A.K. Thurber, G.
W. Bean, J.S. Horne, and others of the Priest-
hood.  Pres. E. Bean presiding, singing, prayer
by Pres. Thurber; singing.  sister Bean felt
peased to see so many present, and that we
had the Sisters from Salt Lake with us, and
hoped we would retain and put in practice
their counsel and instruction.  Said we needed
an Asst. Secretary for the Stake, and Miss
Annie Bean was sustained in that position.
Minutes of last Conference read and accepted.
Comppiled report read.  Sister Zina D. Young
felt her dependence in rising to address a
congregation; was thankful that so many of the
brethren were present that they might know
what was being taught their wives, daughter
and sisters.  Said the responsibilities of the
sisters were great, and their calling the most
noble of women.  They were to mould the
characters of future generations, not only for
time but for all eternity.  Contrasted the la-
bors and conditions of the sisters of the Relief
Society and the women of the world.  Said we
came together to learn to love and bless each
other, and among the women of Zion could be
found purity of heart, firmness of mind, depth
of character and sterling worth, while the wo-
men of the world were constantly struggling for
rights they could not tie to and she pitied
them.  Said we should be careful to set before
our children reading matter of our own pro-
duction.  By her request Sister Heppler read
the revelation contained in the Doctrine and
Covenants (to Emma Smith.)  Sister Young
deemed it good to read such things, said it
would enrich our souls.
	Sister Horne said this was the era for women,
and the time was nigh when they would enlarge
their minds, and increase their capacity to do
good.  This work was progressive.  Joseph
Smith had said this Church was never com-
pletely organized until the Relief Society or-
ganization was effected.  God was no respecter
of persons, and his daughters were endowed
with gifts and talents, as well as his sons, and
the gifts and blessings of the Gospel would rest
upon them, as well as upon the brethren. Said
the sisters should look after the poor, and com-
fort and bless the afflicted.  We should under-
stand business matters, and keep our books in
order, which was a very difficult matter.  We
are so constituted that we require three
kinds of food temporal food to sustain our
bodies, spiritual food to sustain our spirits, and
intellectual food to sustain our minds.  Prayed
for the blessings of God to rest upon all.
	Pres. Spencer felt like talking for a few min-
utes for the sisters benefit.  Said they were the
teachers and instructors of the youth, and he
appealed to the mothers to teach their child-
ren the principle of tithing, for it was one of
the grandest principles of the Gospel.  Spoke
very strongly upon the subjects of governing
the children, and keeping the children out of
the streets.
	Singing.  Benediction, by Bishop Jensen.
	2 P.M.	After the usual opening exercises
the Presidents of the different wards gave ver-
bal reports of their societies; reported as being
in good condition, and doing well.
	Sister Horne said she had been requested to
give the officers of the Society a few instruc-
tions in regard to their duties, which she did in
a spirit of gentleness and humility, and also
spoke of storing grain, and that we should not
sell nor use it but store it for famine.
	Sister Young spoke upon the subject of silk
culture, and the duties of the officers of the
Silk Associations.  Reported the condition of
the Silk Associations in the northern part of the
Territory.  Encouraged the Sisters to use
energy and diligence in establishing silk in-
dustries.  Said for us not to let our talents lie
dormant, but to cultivate them.  Spoke of the
ability manifested in many of the Primary As-
sociations.  We should never get in a hurry,
but take time to be kind and reasonable, and
never strike it child in a passion but teach our
children to knit, sew, cook, and do all kinds of
work.  Advised us to study the laws of health,
and teach our daughters to observe them.
Portrayed the dangers of high-heeled shoes
and tight lacing.  Discouraged the use of
Babylonish fashions.  There were two things
she always felt like running from and that was
a house on fire, and a fault-finding tongue.
The greatest source of sorro is sin; "Those the
Lord loveth He chasteneth."  But don't borrow
trouble.  "Never cross a bridge until you
come to it."  Asked the blessings of God upon
all Zion.
	Sister Bean was greatly pleased and edified
at what had been said, and thankful for the
instructions; desired to do what was right.
Urged the sisters to vote, and to know where
their children were at night. &c.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Sang "How beauteous their feet."  Benediction
by, Pres. A.K. Thurber.
			CELIA E. BEAN, Sec. Protem.
				------

	The Quarterly Conference of the Weber
Stake of Zion was held in the Tabernacle, Og-
den City, Thursday, June 9, 1881, Mrs. Jane
S. Richards presiding.
	On the stand were Apostle F.D. Richards,
Prest. D.H. Peery, Counselor Middleton and
several Bishop of the city and adjacent settle-
ments also Prest. Eliza R. Snow Smith and
Mrs. E.B. Wells of Salt Lake City, and the
officers of the presiding board of Weber Stake
R.S. and Y.L.M.I.A.
	The verbal reports of presidents of the sev-
eral societies were very satisfactory and showed
much had been accomplished by the sisters in
various charitable labors, also a marked im-
provement in speaking.
	Sister J.S. Richards gave the audience kind-
ly greeting, made preliminary remarks express-
ing her great pleasure in having Sister Eliza
present after so long an absence, and her desire
to receive and hearlen to the instructions she
might give on the occasion.
	Sister E.R. Snow Smith gave a very enter-
taining account of her trip to St. George and
the southern settlements, the enjoyment she
realized in officiating in the Temple, and in or-
ganizing the children in the Primary Associa-
tions.  She referred feelingly to the affectionate
remembrance of the societies of Weber Stake
in preparing the excellent party given in honor
of the anniversary of her birthday, and her
gratitude to all who assisted, but felt humble
and weak in having so much honor heaped up-
on her.  She exhorted the sisters to faithful-
ness and diligence in the performance of duties
as wives and mothers, and earnestly entreated
mothers to be loving and tender and guard
carefully the precious souls of their little ones,
and throw around them every possible safe-
guard to protect them from evil influences;
throught the Saints should be indefatigable in
their labors in this respect; urged the sisters to
hold fast to the "iron rod," and never lose sight
of the exaltation they had set out to obtain.
	Apostle F.D. Richards spoke in terms of the
highest commendation of the good work that
was being done by the sisters, and alluded to
the fact of their labors being greatly appreci-
ated by the Bishops and other brethren.  He
spoke of the bitter opposition that was being
exhibited toward this people by various de-
nominations of professed Christians throughout
the country.  The speaker then read a copy of
some remarks made by the Prophet Joseph
Smith a short time previous to his martyrdom,
and the prophecy uttered on that occasion of
the Saints migrating to the Rocky Mountains.
He recounted some of the severe trials and per-
secutions through which the Saints had passed
in the earlier days of the Church.  One of his
own brothers had been killed by the mob in
Missouri, and thrown with other dead bodies
into the dry well at Haun's Mill, vic-
tims of that fearful massacre, in 1837.  An-
other brother of his, one of the famous Mor-
mon Battalion, had died of the hardships of
that fearful march across the desert.
	In the afternoon of the same day, Elder
Richards read from the Millennial Star, vol.19,
concerning the first organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, by President Joseph Smtih.
These articles treated of the nature of this or-
ganization, its object and bearing, and also of
the special duties of woman in relation to the
position they occupy in this Church, and the
blessings which they might obtain through
faithfulness and obedience.  The power which
should be manifested in the healing of the
sick and performing other good works, and ex-
plained the meaning of "Elect Lady," Brother
Richards made a few explanatory remarks up-
on what he had been reading; said it was all
easy to be understood and carried conviction
to every honest heart.  Spoke of the spiritual
influences which had been brought to bear up-
on the young men and boys by means of the
Mutual Improvement Associations, and gave it
as his opinion that through these spiritual
channels the improprieties of youth might in
time be corrected, and they would apply them-
selves to obtaining knowledge and intelligence.
Realized there had been a great improvement
since these organizations had been established.
	Mrs. E.B. Wells spoke upon the importance
of selecting good reading matter to put into
the hands of young people; urged the sisters to
avail themselves of every opportunity for cul-
ture, to read good books and the news of the
day, so they might be able to converse intelli-
gently upon all general topics, and to instruct
their children at home and be companionable in
the family circle, that their minds and hearts
might expand and enlarge and light be given
them and wisdom to aid them in the duties of
every day life and the high and holy responsi-
bilities which devolve upon woman.
	Bro. Samuel Eggleston made some remarks
upon Nauvoo days and his acquaintance with
the Prophet Joseph Smith, which were very in-
teresting.
	Mrs. Hattie Brownmade a few well-timed
remarks; and President J.S. Richards closed
with some suggestions to the sisters in an ap-
propriate but brief speech; and after the usual
exercises of singing and prayer, the Conference
adjourned for three months.
				-------
	Friday, June 10th, was the Quarterly Con-


ference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Stake,
Mrs. Sarah A. Herrick presiding.
	The same brethren and sisters occupied the
stand as on the previous day, except a few
young lady presidents and Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, of Salt Lake City. 
	The spirit of the meetings in both forenoon
and afternoon sessions was elevating and the
instruction was highly edifying.  The speakers
were Prest. S. A. Herrick and her counselors, 
Emily S. Richards and Josephine R. West. 
Several young lady presidents of various wards
and settlements spoke intelligently upon the
principles of the Gospel, proving how benefi-
cial for spiritual improvement had been the
training they had received in these Associa-
tions. 
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, E. B. Wells
and E. B. Ferguson, M.D., each addressed the
congregation.  As we have not space for all, 
we give below an extract from the speech of
the last named:  
	The speaker appealed earnestly and elo-
quently to the young, urging them to appreci-
ate the blessings they enjoyed in the Gospel,
and not listen to the allurements of those in
the world who seek to lead them aside from the
path of duty; urged them to beware of the lib-
erty which they so fascinatingly portrayed. She
had lived in the outside world and could speak
experimentally of both the conditions of soci-
ety.  If we go back to our Father with our
souls dwarfed, uncultivated and undeveloped,
we will be clipped of the glory it is our privi-
lege otherwise to enjoy in eternity.  Spoke up-
on the care of the physical organization of the
body, how necessary it was in order to do the
work of life; she referred to the evil tendency
of late hours, round dancing, tight shoes and
other things which destroy the health; alluded
to the misrepresentations of ministers in their
conferences abroad, and appealed to the young
ladies who kept Gentile company to know what
their fate would be in the morning of the res-
urrection.  She thought woman's greates mis-
sion was to bear the souls of men, and the
practices which existed in the world tended to
destroy offspring, women continually trying to
avoid the condition of motherhood.  The speak-
er gave some of her experience in the outside
world previous to embracing the Gospel, and
said that the pleasures of the world, though
fair to all appearance, had, like the apples of
Sodom, turned to ashes on her lips and were
bitter afterwards.  She entreated the young la-
dies to live their religion, considering well the
terrible consequences of going astray, of for-
feiting their birthright.
	Sister E. R. Snow Smith addressed the meet-
ing, expressing her joy in being with the sis-
ters here in Ogden again, after so long an ab-
sence.  She felt greatly attached to them, and
she observed a material growth among the
young sisters in these organizations, mental and
spiritual; she realized it forcibly here to-day;
referred to the first Association of young la-
dies which she had the honor of effecting by
direction of the Holy Priesthood; these young
sisters are respected now.  The parents had 
come to realize the benefit of these meetings by
the result.  The heart must be cultivated as
well as the head; our spirits must be matured
as well as our bodies; she had sometimes
thought there were those who called themselves
Saints who thought they might enter the King-
dom of God without doing this.  Inasmuch as
we direct our time and attention to the things
of this world, and neglect our spiritual wel-
fare, we will lose by it.  What is the wealth
of the world compared to the knowledge that
God has spoken and the intelligence that has
been revealed from heaven?  Urged the sisters
to continue reading the Bible and Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants; they
will show you how strict the Lord was with His
servants; exhorted the young ladies to read
carefully the revelation given to Emma Smith,
and notice at the close of this revelation that
what was said unto her was said unto all. It
gave her advice in regard to her duty to her
husband; in order to carry out this in our
lives, we need great cultivation.  You will obtain
this by applying your minds to reading the
scriptures and cultivating yourselves in these
meetings by the aid of the Spirit of God.  Sis-
ter Eliza also made allusion to the evils which
were entering in among our children, and the
necessity of taking care of the little ones and
preserving their bodies and souls pure; spoke
upon the Gospel and how we should obtain a
perfect knowledge of it; signs follow the be-
lievers and are not given to convince unbeliev-
ers.  The Savior said, "In my name they shall
cast out devils."  We have precisely the same
Gospel Jesus and His disciples taught. We
are philosophers enough to believe the same
causes produce the same effects; referred to the
various sects professing to have the authority;
but if they had, it must have come from the
mother church.  We have our authority from
another source, direct from heaven.  Our reli-
gion covers everything in heaven and upon
the earth.  The Lord has given us perfect prin-
ciples, but it will require the practice of these
as well as the profession.  In conclusion she re-
lated a conversation with a lady from Boston,
who thought the railroads would make great
changes in our religion.  Sister Eliza answered,
"O, no, the principles of our religion are eter-
nal--there can be no change."
	Conference was adjourned for three months.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOR SALE.
	Home-Made SILK,
	   	AT
CUTLER'S COMISSION STORE.

	ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obsterics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
							   ----
			OFFICE - Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE--Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obsterics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

	HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threating shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will  you its friend.
	VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
		YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, NO. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
	MRS. C. E. DYE,
Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call her at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet and Ribbons in the latest,
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
		PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obsterics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ties.

		THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicialty will and the LARGEST and
		BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
	Also, full and desrialbe lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
she found in the West.		Your Orders are Solicited. 
			GEO. DUNFORD.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
		--HAVE--
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
		CALL AND EXAMINE
	Spring and Summer Goods.

	DAVID JAMES, 
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
	Agent for Rumsey's celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY & SHELFT HARDWARE,
		GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC. 

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY. 
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves. 
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P.  TEASDEL. 

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building also HOME MADE
Blankets,
Flannels,
Shawls,
Linseys, 
Jeans,
Brown Yarns,
White Yarns, 
Colored Yarns,
Cassimers, 
Tweeds,
Cotton Batting,
Wool Batting,
Brooms, 
Washboards, 
Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
--AND--
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD, 
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID 
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: --MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
		P. O. BOX, 541


﻿The report of the Primary Conference in Og-
den is crowded out of this issue, but will appear
on our next number.


﻿It will be remembered that at the signing
of “The Treaty of Berlin,” in l878, there
were “ten men" present representing their dif-
ferent nations and courts, the Earl of Bea-
consfield being the “head and front" of the
whole affair.  I have no room for further com-
ment, but will just say, compare this with the
last verse of the 8th chapter of Zechariah, and
give me your opinion.		H.	T.	K.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1881.


ODE TO LIBERTY
                ________
  RY ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
                ________
Hail, the day when Freedom, first,
Proud oppression's fetters burst--
Hail, their shades, who boldy durst
	Liberty proclaim. 
		CHORUS
Here, amid the mountain sky, 
Freedom's Flag is waving high---
Let the heav'n-born echo fly;
	God and Liberty,
Hail, the Banner of the brave,
Streaming o'er the patriot's grave:
Here, forever shall it wave 
	To protect the just. 

			CHORUS.

Glorious Fourth!  The day is ours-- 
We have nourished Freedom's powers,
And with us, her standard tow'rs 
	To Jehovah's throne.
		CHORUS,
God, who moved our worthy Sires,
When they kindled Freedom's fires, 
Utah's noble sons, inspires
	With the sacred flame. 
		CHORUS
Here, with God-like grasp, and bold,
We, the Constitution hold,
Pure as when its sacred fold
	Was, at first, bequeathed.
		CHORUS,
 Peace, the gift that Freedom gave, 
When she crowned the wise and brave,
Bids her royal banner wave
	O'er or mountain home. 
		CHORUS
Freedom spreads her wand abroad,
Prompting all to worship God,
Fearless of  the tyrant's rod:
	Glorious liberty!
		CHORUS
Freedom, Justice, Truth and peace, 
Shall in Utah's vales increase:
Shout, O Shout, till time shall cease,
	Truth and Liberty!
		CHORUS.
Here, amid the mountain sky,
Freedom's Flag is waving high--
Let the heav'n-born echo fly--
	God and Liberty.


PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE.
	BY HANNAH T. KING.

	We are accustomed to consider these as dis-
tincttinct epochs, but they are links in a mighty
chain of being; and when the finite, merges
into the infinite.  we suppose they will form an
eternal present; we are urged sometimes to lay
aside the Past;-- and even Byron says, "The
past is nothing;" and Shakspere says "Let
bygones be bygones."  Yet I have an intuitive
knowledge that at other moments they would
have ignored these assertions! With regard to
some things, there may be truth in them; but
not all, oh ! no, not all ! some parts of the past,
are very precious.  Why forget the good of 
any epoch ? In it we have drank of the halcyon
cup of happiness, we have lived in it, we have
suffered in it, and each and all have endeared it to
us--for in the bitter there was the sweet-- and
in the sweet, oh!  most sweet, the bitter was
surely mingled! wisely mingled, we are com-
pelled to say!  All these formed our individu-
ality--our identity if you please!  In the past
we became acquainted with our Father, 
and our Mother, and in our early days they
were as god to us--we knew no others, we
knew them, and loved them with a degree of
worship! they were the Shrine before whom
we offered up our prayers to our Father in
Heaven--they supplied all our wants, if we
were sick they nursed, and comforted  us, and
loved us thro' every scene of life.  We also
became acquainted with our brothers and our
sisters, we grew up together in the Parental
Home, and they became our friends, the sweet-
est the purest friendship existed between us.
We also made acquaintance with our children,
all these became our Lares and Penates, the
"Lines fell to us in pleasant places," an atmos-
phere of happiness was around us, tho' like
Paul we were "preserved from being too highly
exalted" -- by some spirits "sent to buffet us,"
to preserve for us an equillibrium.  We saw
and acknowledged the hand of God in all; our
parents inculcated in us the love of truth, the
principles of obedience and humility were our
earliest lessons; that humility that taught us
to listen to the counsel of those above us, and
to do to others as we would they should do
unto us; these lessons helped us to obey the
Gospel when we heard it, they help us to stand
to day, and endeavor "to hold on to the rod of
iron" thro' evil report and good report, all this
laid a foundation for the future.  Who then
can say,
	'The past, is nothing?" few can say,
	Their star of life has shed no ray,
	That o'er their retrospective view,
	Cast glowing tints of pinky hue! --
	Yes, yes the present will reveal
	The past is something-- woe or weal--
	Is built upon the mighty past
	Which thro' eternity may last! 
	The future is within the veil,
	Obscure in its unfolded tale.--
	But yet, what e'er our God's behest;
	Let's bless Him, for we have been blest. 

	The present, which to me com-
menced when entering the Church of Jesus
Christ, has realized many of the day-dreams of 
the past, it is good; if only the mind, the heart,
the understanding can grasp, and realize its
teachings, this we are trying all the time to do.
this we want to do! May our Father accept
this in place of our perfect obedience!  I con-
fess I cannot separate the past, and the future, 
from the present, they make a whole, that can
have no quartering, it simply acknowledges
the law of progression.  The Future ! a veil
hangs over it! no doubt it is wisely hiddem
from us in our present imperfect and ignorant
state.  Yet I believe it is inherent in the hu-
man composition to desire to pry into futurity;
some desire it from a love of truth, and know-
ledge that they may be guarded against the
 quick-sands that beset every pathway, some
from an idle curiosity, arising from a restless,
unhappy spirit, that have little or no confidence
in themselves and consequentle little in their
God? Such was Saul, when he applied to the
Witch of Endor, having by his conduct closed
the revelations of heaven against himself;--and
she was allowed to shew him--
		"Crownless, headless, breathless fall"
	"Son, and Sire, the House of Saul."

	To desire to gain knowledge lawfully, is per-
fectly just and praisworthy; when so obtained, 
it will be ours for eternity!  but enough
is revealed even now to excite enthusiastic
perseverence, even in the most flegmatique
to the sanguine to reach even "the anchor with-
in the Veil," and to shed its rich effulgence
over the homeliness of earth, and earthly things;
to surround the past, and present by a Halo of
light reflected back by the grand future, and
enable us to press forward "to the prize of the
high calling that is before us," till we attain
the Presence-Chamber of the great "I am"
and realize an eternal present in the kingdom
of our Father, and our God!

	The future, present and the past,
		Are subjects all should seek to scan,
	For the contain the first and last
		Of all thats precious unto man,
	An woman too, and every child
		In these grand epochs, hold a stake,
	And Heaven's love and mercy mild
		Are needed every move we make;
	Then let's be wary, let's be wise,
		For, no child's play is human life--
	We may not trifle or despise
The present with salvation rife.


﻿ THE LATE MRS. ANDREWS
	Mrs. Elizabeth Andrews, the venerable
mother of Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, whose
funeral services were held at the residence of
her daughter yesterday, was widely known and
highly honored east and west. President Gar-
field sent to the funeral a magnificent wreath
of the choicest flowers from the White House
conservatory, and wrote to Mr. and Mrs.
Spencer:
 “Dear Friends:—In the midst of my great
anxiety for the dear life which is the fight of
our home, I send you this word of sympathy
for the loss that death has brought to you.
						J. A. G."

	Mrs. Andrews was a woman of tremendous
brain power, and being left early a widow in-
western New York, with a family of six chil-
dren, she conquered obstacles that would have
made the stoutest heart to quail, and gave
every one of her children a superior education
and every social advantage.  For more than
half a century, as a conviction born of her
struggles in life, she was a profound believer
in the right of woman to a voice in the laws
that govern her, and when she heard in her St.
Louis home that her daughter, Mrs. Spencer,
was working zealously for that cause she said
“She is doing what I longed to do when she
was a child in my arms."
	She came to Washington to die and to be
buried at Glenwood, where her daughter, at
her request, had ten years ago selected her
resting place.  She attended the inauguration
of Gen. Garfield, to whom she was much at-
tached for many years, and never left her room
again.—The Evening Star, Washington, D.C.


MRS Mary A. Livermore is in England
June 17th, she delivered a lecture to an im-
mense audience in St. George's Hall, London.
Subject the "Duties of Woman to the Nation"
She also spoke at St. James Hall and Memorial
Hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<jtf horseback,="" and="" i="" must="" say="" that="" he,"being="" afflicted="" with="" ague;="" looked="" a="" more,="" fit="" iubject="" for.a="" hospital="" than="" he="" did="" like="" missionary.="" pur="" parents="" expected="" to="" be="" there="" nearly="" as="" goon="" we="" were,.="" but="" reclamed="" in="" quincy="" two="" or="" three="" days="" longer="" 'visiting="" among="" their="" friends;="" each="" day="" william'="" .1="" walked="" the="" upper,="" landing,="" which="" was'="" 'miles="" more="" from;="" place="" where="" settled,="" being="" no="" houses="" between="" made="" distance="" seem="" still="" greater,="" and-="" haying="" return;="" at="" bight="" without="" thehlt="" felt="" homesifck="" aud="" sick="" of="" country.”="" contrast="" between,="" quincy,="" had="" spent="" the'="" spring="" summer="" so="" pleas-,="" antlypand="" .everything="" seemed="" delightful="" me="" it.="" dreary="" .looking="" .any-="" thing;="" hut"="" interesting;="" scene="" changed="" as:="" it,were,="" by="" magic,'through.'="" persevering,="" industry,="" .the="" saints,="" soon="" .instead,="" .a="" forest="" country="" was="" dotted="" over="" houses,!="" an'd="" gardens="" flowers="" were,="" under="" .cultiya-="" tiohq="" "="" shortly="" after="" -="" my="" father’s="" departure.="" tor="" europe,="" little,="" brother,.="" upon="" whom="" had'="" depended,to="" bring="" us="" water="" to,="" drink="" lay-="" sick.="" chills="" fever,="" came="" ip="" yd.th="" his="" usual.="" pail="" water,="" and.="" setting="" it.'.iipdn="" ,ihe="" floor,="" laid="" down="" "by="" it.and="" said:="" “i="" b’eye="" i’s="" go-="" in’to="" bay="" e.agu’="" too;”="" .="" .andi="" sure="" enough="" fellow="" shaking="" it..="" ..is="" an="" old="" saying="" "misery="" loves="" company,”="" certainly="" lack-="" it="" ih;.nauvoo.="" every="" remedy="" could'.be="" thought="" heard="" fried;="" even="" resort;="" ed.="" tricks="" strategems,="" some="" ,'which="" were="" ludicrous="" extreme,="" afforded="" considerable,="" fun="" amusement.="" some-!="" times="" tried="" selling="" giving="" ague="" ones="" who="" willing="" ttf="" risk="" chances,="" .purchaser="" sometimes="" t="" cause="" repent="" her="" bargain;="" doctor’s="" .pre-="" scriptions="" ;="" they="" often="" failed.="" following="" one,="" hqd="" a.striking="" effect'="" -me;="" when;="" began="" feel.the="" symptqmswe="" were"foi="" start="" run="" across="" floor="" if="" going="" on="" teethe="" bed,="" go="" instead,="" thus="" cheating="" gentleman.who="" would="" usual="" —="" -to".="" k="" -bed.="" that.lime="" regular="" chill="" otherevening,="" when="" first="" symptoms="" started="" from="" fireplace,="" .but,="" 7="" dodging="" to-govunder,thojiedxgavnjmylhea(la="" frightful,blow,="" .fejt="" no,="" of,="" chiy?="" anafever'fbr="" weeks;="" -but="" whether--it'-wasl'="" —duc-to-the-4=""><xiurtrials iand="" :privation3,="" they="" appeared="" cheerful="" even="" imtheir="" afflictions,="" and="" would="" talk="" upon="" the="" bright="" side;="" taught="" me="" prihciple'of="" patiencebnd="" '="" forbearance="" —virtues="" which1!'%'as'rather-="" deficient-in—and="" also="" to="" exercise="" fait&="" -'iif="" :="" god:'="" their="" sympa-="" thies="" were="" often="" exercised="" m="" my1="" behalf—being="" blessed="" with="" an="" elder="" brother="" whose="" happiness="" seemed="" neyer,="" .so.,comjaiec:="" ag,="" .whentgrwen="" ting="" his="" only="" sister;.)'qh="" frequently="" .put.="" ;tq;jhe!;fe,buvjiq="" thought="" any="" one="" else="" was="" trjlug'to.="" imp.e="" nphn="" ber,="" be="" ready="" fight.="" although="" father="" bad="" left="" us="" so="" sick="" .in="" .nodi'="" circumstances,="" we="" had="" of="" some="" assistance—wmt6f="" ws="" "oji;="" jis:="" i="" being="" shoeless,="" aunt="" laura="" asked="" if="" not="" better="" go="" thelord-and-makehim="" acquainted="" rou="" -icondition="" andshe,feltsure,="" that;="" he="" would'move="" heart'="" 'bishdp="" vinson="" knight,="" and.="" i.="" would,="" ,get="" new="" shoes.="" heeded="" her="" counsel,="" ana="" in="" a="" few="" days="" accom-="" panied="" .my="" mother,="" and;="" wiijiam="" seqrthe="" burpanti="" ere.="" all.supplied;="" sorafetimes="" ,raihqr="" grpt="" iq="" his.'maun.qrs,="" being;="" harassed,tby'his="" many="" spares="" .considerable="" tryhis="" pa-="" fipnee.="" ina="" years="" from,="" that="" tirrief,he'two="" sisters="" became="" ;menie,rs.="" .‘of.="" quratasy="" bcul4r-iy;jif="" shqtjsaw="" '(rpubledm="" temporal="" matters,="" she,if="" 'to="" 97fill="" 07)="" l="" ?="" -xhjo="" '.'of:<="" div="">[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The site of Nauvoo from the river was con-
sidered one of the most beautiful on the Miss-
issippi, and appropriately named Nauvoo, the
beautiful. Previous to being settled by the
Latter-day Saints it was called Commerce, or
Upper and Lower Commerce, there having
been two landings, which were quite a distance
apart; the Prophet Joseph lived at the lower
one, and our house was one mile from the river.
When my father left us to go on his second
mission to England there had been but very
few houses built, and there were none within a
half mile of us. We were surrounded with
trees and hazel and other underbrush. The
whole country was quite wild, and wolves being
plentiful we were treated nightly to their sere-
nades, commencing at sundown and continuing
at intervals till morning. In the winter hun-
ger made them very bold, but they were gener-
ally harmless. My first impression concerning
the place was anything but pleasing; the cir-
comstances attending my arrival there were
probably the reason—the weather was exces-
sively warm, and the bottom land being
swampy, nearly every one who had come there
was sick upon the bank of the river; my
mother being in delicate health, father took
her, with their youngest child, up by water,
sending me and my eldest brother by land in
charge of a hired woman and the driver; we
were two days on the way, and the journey
was quite pleasant; we put up at night with
Father John Smith's family; Brother George
A., their son, who was starting for England,
accompanied us to Commerce on horseback,
and I must say that he, being afflicted with
ague, looked a more fit subject for a hospital
than he did like a missionary. Our parents
expected to be there nearly as soon as we were,
but remained in Quincy two or three days
longer visiting among their friends; each day
William and I walked to the upper landing,
which was two miles or more from the place
where we settled, and there being no houses
between made the distance seem still greater,
and having to return at night without them I
felt homesick and sick of the country. The
contrast between that place and Quincy, where
we had spent the spring and summer so pleas-
antly, and everything seemed so delightful to
me that it made the dreary looking place any-
thing but interesting; but the scene changed
as it were by magic, through the persevering
industry of the Saints, and soon instead of a
forest the country was dotted over with houses,
and gardens and flowers were under cultiva-
tion. 
	Shortly after my father's departure for
Europe, my little brother, upon whom we had
depended to bring us water to drink as we lay
sick with chills and fever, came in with his
usual pail of water, and setting it upon the
floor, laid down by it and said: "I b'eve I's go-
in' to have agu' too;" and sure enough the little
fellow was shaking with it. 
	There is an old saying that "misery loves
company," and we certainly had no lack of it
in Nauvoo. Every remedy that could be
thought or heard of was tried; we even resort-
ed to tricks and strategems, some of which
were ludicrous in the extreme and afforded
considerable fun and amusement. We some-
times tried selling or giving the ague to the
ones who were willing to risk their chances, and
the purchaser sometimes had cause to repent
his or her bargain; but like the doctor's pre-
scriptions they often failed. The following
one had a striking effect upon me: when we
began to feel the symptoms we were to start
and run across the floor as if going on to the
bed, but to go under instead, thus cheating the
old gentleman, who would go as usual on to the

[Column 2]
bed. At that time my regular chill came on
every other evening, and when I first felt the
symptoms I started from the fireplace, but in
dodging to go under the bed, I gave my head a
frightful blow, and I felt no more of the chills
and fever for three weeks; but whether it was
due to the blow on my head or my faith in
the trick I could never quite decide. 
	The skin of a rattlesnake wrapped around
the head was said to be an excellent remedy
for the headache. One of our neighbors, Sis-
ter Bentley's father, killed an old one near our
house, and after dressing it they cut it in
pieces, and I saw the meat fried and eaten by
her father and husband; they invited me to
partake with them, but I had no hankering for
snake meat, though it was as nice looking as
fish, but the thought of it and the sight of the
picees squirming in the frying pan made me
feel quite nervous; but when the fever was on
and my head distracted with pain, I was per-
fectly willing to have it bound up with snake
skins, or anything else that would give relief.
None but those who have passed through simi-
lar sufferings can realize our condition, as the
days and weeks dragged on, and most of the
Saints were destitute of the commonest com-
forts, and were wanting for beds and even cov-
ering, having been robbed in the State of Mis-
souri, and the nights were very cold. We
know how the ague weakens and reduces a
person's strength in two or three days, but
there we had it for weeks and months at a
time, and there was no alternative but to sub-
mit and make the best of it.
	Wrapped in our shawls or quilts we would
sit cramped and shaking to the very marrow,
hovering over the fire, which only increased
the shivering, but would not leave it as long as
we could sit up, and when the fever came on
the pain and suffering were so intense that the
patient generally became delirious. Brother
Joseph, seeing the condition of the Saints, es-
pecially those on the bank of the river, where
the water was unfit for drinking purposes and
they were dying like sheep, his sympathies
were so wrought upon that he told them to
make tea and drink it, or anything that they
thought would do them good; and he often
made tea and administered it with his own
hands. That was the commencement of their
using tea and coffee; previous to this the
Saints had been strict in keeping the Word of
Wisdom.
	Soon after my father left us Brother Charles
C. Rich, who purchased five acres of land ad-
joining ours, and Brother Charles Hubbard,
with their wives, befriended my mother and
her children, and were truly brothers and sis-
ters. Brothers Winchester, Benson, Uncle Jo-
seph Young and many more brethren, with
their families, soon became our neighbors, and
were equally kind to us. During the first
winter my mother invited them to hold meet-
ings on the Sabbath day at her house, it being
one of the most convenient in the neighbor-
hood, though it had but one lower room and
that was shared with Sister Pratt. The breth-
ren and sisters enjoyed many glorious seasons
together, and under the influence of the Holy
Spirit they rejoiced that they were considered
worthy to suffer for so pure riches, and they
could say with truth, "My yoke is easy and my
burthen is light;" even the children partook of
that influence, and were glad when the Sab-
bath day came round.
	The following amusing incident happened
the winter that Sister Pratt was living with us.
One Saturday evening she left a plate of large
sweet cakes, or buns, upon her table by the
cupboard when she retired, and in the morn-
ing the plate being found empty caused quite
an excitement; we thought maybe they had
been taken to pa or some of his brethren,,who
might be in want, as in Elijah's case; but Sister
Pratt, being more practical than religious,

[Column 3]
thought it more probable that they had been
stolen by a rat than taken by a raven, and so
made a search by having one of the planks of
the floor taken up, and sure enough there we
discovered the buns stowed away one upon the
other, as neatly as if done by human hands.
	The next fall, Sister Pratt having been pro-
vided with a house, Sisters Laura and Abigail
Pitkin came to live with us, and remained un-
til their house was built. They were among
the Saints who were driven from Jackson Co.,
Missouri, and passed through all the trials in
Far West, and were driven out of that State
into Illinois. They supported themselves by
working at the tailor's trade. Were natives of
New England, and like many of the Saints
they had sacrificed wealth and worldly honors
for the pure Gospel of Christ. They had been
carefully trained and educated in all that was
necessary to make them good and useful citi-
zens. When they obeyed the Gospel they had
a supply of linen of their own spinning and
weaving, for bedding, wearing apparel, etc.,
sufficient to last them their lifetime; some of it
was of the finest texture that could be woven
in the loom. When Aunt Laura, as we called
her, died she had a few articles left, which
were sent by her request to her brother's chil-
dren living north of this city.
	They were living in Quincy when my father
started upon his mission, and being prostrated
with chills and fever he staid most of the time
while there at their house, and they bestowed
every possible kindness upon him, and his
brethren. They were always doing good and
trying to stimulate others to faithfulness and
good works; were refined, gentle and affable to
every one, as well as dauntless and unflinching
in the cause of truth. They were also among
the aged and infirm who were driven by brute
force across the Mississippi river into Iowa.
Sister Abigail had been an invalid for years,
and she sank under all her accumulated suffer-
ings, and was buried on the west side of the
Mississippi. I remember the kind teachings
and exhortations which I received from them
in the midst of our trials and privations, they
appeared cheerful even in their afflictions, and
would talk upon the bright side; they taught
me the principles of patience and forbearance
—virtues which I was rather deficient in—and
also to exercise faith in God. Their sympa-
thies were often exercised in my behalf—being
blessed with an elder brother whose happiness
seemed never so complete as when tormenting
his only sister, patience and forbearance were
frequently put to the test; but if he thought
any one else was trying to impose upon her, he
was ready to fight. Although father had left
us so sick and in poor circumstances, we had
seldom been under the necessity of calling upon
the Bishop; the second year we were in need of
some assistance—winter was on us and I being
shoeless, Aunt Laura asked me if I had not
better go to the Lord and make Him acquainted
with our condition, and she felt sure that He
would move upon the heart of Bishop Vinson
Knight, and I would get some new shoes. I
heeded her counsel, and in a few days accom-
panied my mother and William to see the
Bishop, who was living in Upper Commerce,
where the storehouse of the Lord was kept. 
We found him remarkably kind, and our wants
were all supplied; he was sometimes rather
gruff in his manners, being harassed by his
many cares and had considerable to try his pa-
tience. In a few years from that time the two
sisters became members of our family, and
Aunt Laura, who came with us to this valley,
often reminded me of this circumstance, par-
ticularly if she saw me troubled in temporal
matters, she would ask if I had lost my faith
in prayer.


THE biography of Sister Amanda Smith will
be concluded in our next.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A REVERIE. 
		PART FIRST. 
I wandered through a ruin, old and grand, 
Where ivy twined across the massive door, 
And shadows fell around on every hand, 
And mellow sunbeams played upon the floor. 

It was a picture for an artist's eye, 
And one that lives within my soul to-day;
I cannot understand the reason why
"It haunts me still," like scenes of some old play.

It was deserted, desolate and lone, 
The owls and bats made nests within its walls; 
Its inmates to some other land had flown, 
And left forever their ancestral halls.  

All trace is gone to those who do not know, 
Who come and gaze, and go upon their way; 
May be they wonder how it happened so, 
And why the house was left there to decay.  

Those hemlock groves, the gentle streams that glide
So smoothly on, why tell they not the tale?
Aye, one may wander by the brooklet's side, 
And listen to the songsters in the vale, 

Or the soft summer winds, that seem to sigh-
But none of these the mystery reveal;
The mournful echoes in the distance die, 
And all conspire the secret to couceal. 

The daffodils are blooming, bright and gay, 
And buttercups and cowslips thickly grow, 
And from afar, the scent of new-mown hay
	Is waited as the gentle breezes blow.  

Beyond's the forest, with its giant trees, 
Where we may ponder in profoundest thought, 
Till, startled by the whispers of the breeze, 
We realize our minds are overwrought.  

There's soft green pastures, where the lilies grow, 
And sunset's glory's resting on the hills;
How beautiful the picture in the glow
Of fancy's radiance, which my bosom fills.  

We wander back again, as in a dream, 
Thro' an old orchard, where the birds are singing, 
Back to the hemlock grove and pearly stream;
	But hark!  the village bells methinks are ringing!

O merry bells, I ken ye know I've come, 
Ye wake so many memories which have slept, 
Say, can ye tell me of my childhood's home, 
And where the records of the house are kept?

Ah; in the background, swinging to and fro, 
Creaking and moaning, as 'twere fain to tell, 
The oldest fashioned sweep of long ago, 
Is dangling over a moss covered well.  

And there's a bucket, let me take a drink-
How sweet it tastes, wil't bring me back my youth?
Or help me of the conscious past to think?
Alas! I need not ask. I know the truth.  

I linger near the place, as tho' a spell
Had fallen on me, and I fain would weep, 
Such strange emotions in my bosom swell; 
Is this a reverie, or is it sleep?
							EMILE.


PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.
ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH. 
			CONTINUED. 

	Ever since the return of Sister Elize from
her travels abroad she has been doing home
missionary work among the Latter-day Saints.
By Pres. Young's connsel she has assisted the
Bishops in organizing Relief Societies in var-
ious towns and villages in the different Stakes
of Zion.  She has herself organized most of the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions.  As an organizer she has wonderful
ability. Her keen eye and quick perception
are a great benefit to her in this respect and
she knows just what is wanted and can decide
and execute well this sort of work.
 Sister Eliza has continued to write for the
press and  public although her labors have
been very arduous, and on public occasions she
is expected to contribute a poetica effusion.
For the 24th, of July 1875 she wrote "A Jub-
ilee Poem," from which we make a brief ex-
tract.
	"This day on history's page will live
	With honor's purest diadem, adorned
	With life's chaste gems of beauty and of youth,
	We now embellish it.
			This is the day
	On which the Pioneers of Utah first,
	Not yet three decades since, with thankful hearts
	Entered this vale.
		Twas dry and desolate-
	But they had come, searching their way across
	The trackless desertplains, to find a home
	For persecuted Saints; and here they found
	A parched and sterile waste- the hertiage
	Of crickets, and the Indian's stamping ground;
	Which none but those who fully trusted in
	The living, speaking God of Abraham,
	Would have essayed, or struggled to redeem.

	God will establish in these mountain vales,
	The Kingdom Daniel saw in visionn, which
	He likened to a "little stone," that rolled
	Down from the montain- growing, moving on,
	Until it filled the earth.

		A portion of
	The elements are here before us, in
	This blooming choir- this mammoth Jubilee.
	Where youth and childhood- pure and innocent
	As vestal offerings and beautiful
	As ideality's brigh pencilings,
	Unite their voices in Jahovah's praise."
This is only an item from the Poem and
scarcely coveys an idea of its beauty or
strength. Our readers will find it in full on the
144th page of "Poems by Eliza R. Snow," Vol-
ume 11.  Sister Eliza is the recognized leader
of the women of the Latter-day Saints and per-
sided over all the largest gatherings of women
for any particular purpose that special occasions
demand.  When the women of Utah have
memorialized Congress with mammoth peti-
tions signed by 27000 women citizens, she has
been the leading spirit and an active worker
in preparing and forwarding.  In all that con-
cerns the good of Israel wherever woman's 
help is needed she is first and foremost.
	Her mind is very contemplative and she has
written much upon subjects requiring depth of
thought and pertaining to a higher life. From 
one of her poems entitled Immortality we
quote a few stanzas.
	Yes immortality; That bosom word
	To me has inspiration in it.

	But thanks to God there is an end decreed
	To human sorrow; pain and misery.
	I aim- I live for immortality,
	Life, knowledge, bliss without one stopping point.

	A thought that I should ever cease to be
	Would paralyze all other, thoughts'twould dim
	The brightest beams of joy, and would crush out
	Each holy aspiration of the heart-
	Eradicate that precious organ; hope-
	Embargo enterprize, and dry up all
	The tributary streams of happiness.

	There's nothing short of Immortality,
	Can satisfy the earnest cravings of
	That spark of pure divinity, which God
	Implanted as the fine constitutuent part
	Of beings organized with attributes
	Like His- the germ of an eternal life.

	Crown of all wisdom, sum of good to man,
	Scheme of the God's, redemption's glorious plan;
	This, through the resurrection's power combines.
	Immortal bodies and immortal minds.

 On the 27th of July after Sister Eliza re-
turned from her travels abroad, only having
arrived on the 15th in S. L. City, she went to
Brigham City where she was greeted with the
greatest enthusiam.  The people turned out in
crowds to meet her and the word WELCOME in
flowers was arranged over the gateways.  She
held meetings in several towns in Box Elder
Co., returning home after about ten days spent
among the people, meeting with the Societies,
organizing and reorganizing.  After returning
from there she visited other parts of the Terri-
tory in the interests of Relief Societies and Y.
L. M. I. A.
 Shortly after she began compiling some of
her poems, preparatory to publishing her sec-
ond volume.  And as soon as that was com-
pleted she began gathering the letters written
by the brethren and herself while traveling,
ready for publication.  This book she also
compiled carefully for the press.  It is called
"The Correspondence of the Palestine Tour-
ists," and is not only methodically arranged
but all the letters are written in a very clever
style, and better still they are true to facts in
every particular.  Those who are acqnainted
with this class of work will realize that Sister
Eliza had wonderful executive ability to do
this kind of labor while, we might say almost
constantly attending meetings where she was
always expected to speak, if she did not preside-
and very often did both.  Not only that, but 
was visiting through the country from time to
time, as circumstances and the needs of the
Societies developed.  She has a true motherly
charge over all the organizations, and watches
their movements and progress closely. We
had almost forgotten to mention that the lady
also resumed her duties as Priestess in the
House of the Lord immediately after her return
from abroad.  There are perhaps few women in
teh world who at the age of seventy and over
could accomplish so much work in so many dif-
fereut directions.  Sister Eliza is not only lit-
erary but domestic in her tastes, and while do-
ing public duty has performed her own house-
hold labors, which has no doubt been beneficial,
and prolonged her life, she has also been a good
walker, seldom riding unless the distance was
considerable, and very frequently when in the
country prefering to ride in a lumber wagon,
considering it conductive to health. Occupied
constantly in doing good, comforting the bowed
down, administering to the sick and distressed,
she has realized the full import of the Scripture
"In blessing ye are blessed.
	[To be Continued.]


ASSOCIATED CHARITIES IN' WASH-
			INGTON.
	Editor Journals:--Last evening, the fifth
meeting to consider a plan of associated chari-
ties was held in Washington, D.C., at the rooms 
of the Bureau of Education.
	Popular interest has awakened somewhat
slowly, although a few devoted souls, of large 
experience and sympathy with the poor, wel-
comed the plan from the first mention of it. 
Mrs. Walling, of Cambridge, brought it to the
notice of a few pious Jews and Gentiles, on
whose shoulders the enormous charitable work
of the District largely comes.  Last night a
constitution was adopted, based upon that of
the Boston society, and after some discussion
as to the epithet qualifying, "charities," we
chose for the name of our society that singu-
larly felicitous one of yours--"Society of As-
sociated Charities."
	A public meeting is called for next Tuesday, 
in the parlors of the Riggs House, where many
a valuable conference for  public weal has been 
entertained before.  Wish us God speed!
							STACY. 
	Washington, D. C., June 7, 1881.	--Ex.


THE Woman's Suffrage Association of Neb-
raska held a Convention in Omaha July 6th
and 7th.  It sends out tracts for distrbution.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -	-	Editor. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms:  One copy one ear, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.oo Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	JULY 15, 1881.


THE ASSASSINATION.

 The Assassination of the President of the
United States has been the topic of conversa-
tion, the theme of discussion, ever since it trans-
pired. News of the terrible occurrence was
telegraphed all over the world almost imme-
diately, and condolences and messages of sym-
pathy telegraphed back again with lightning
speed.  It was a time that tried men’s souls;
strong men trembled like an aspen leaf, and
great men wept.  Thousands of men and women
offered the most earnest prayers to heaven that
his life might be spared, that the country so
glorified for its liberty might not again be left to
mourn its Chief Executive, slain by the hand
of an assassin; that his wife might not be left to
mourn a husband, his children bereaved of a
loving father and protector, his fond and aged
h:' mother grieve the loss of a son,of whom she had
been so justly proud.
 The distressing event, which took place on the
2d of July, has been published in all the papers
over and over, and every separate detail given to
the anxious public, who have ever since been
most eager to learn of his condition in every
particular.  The people have never for a moment
seemed to lose their interest in the minutest de-
tails.  If President Garfield or his friends had
any doubts how he stood in the affections of the
people of this Republic, they ought to be satis-
fied, now in the manifestations of love, of solici-
tude and attention from every portion of the
United States, as also foreign lands.  That he is
 most sincerely beloved by the people has been
sufficiently demonstrated In a thousand ways
during his illness.
	It is indeed dreadful that the spirit of Nihilism
has reached this fair and boasted land of free-
dom, and stained the American soil with the
blood of one of its bravest and most heroic
patriots—a man who distinguished himself so
admirably in the wars of his country, and who
was held so high in the hearts of the people as
 to secure his election to the highest office in the
gift of the nation—that such a man should be
attacked, at such a time and place, seems not
only improbable but utterly impossible.  And
yet such are the facts which must be recorded
In history, forever a blight upon the fair escutch-
eon of the Republic.
 While the people were desirous of celebrating
the national day, and preparations for festivity
and rejoicing were being made everywhere, sud-
denly there fell a crushing blow, and a dark
and solemn pall, as it were, settled upon the
whole land.  Faith, bright harbinger and hand-
maid of Hope inspired the soul, while the best
skill the country afforded was concentrated on the
one grand and important matter of saving the
precious life that hung as it were upon a 
thread.
	In the midst of this great sorrow, Mrs. Gar-
field bears up with the dignity born of trial, the
self-possession of true womanhood, and con-
stantly encourages and stimulates her husband.
“O woman! In our hours of ease,
Uncertain, coy, and hard to please,
And variable as the shade
By the light quivering aspen made;
When pain and anguish wring the brow,
A ministering angel, thou! ”
 President Garfield is a thousand times more
endeared to the people from what he has suf-
fered, and every hour of uncertainty is fraught
with increased affection, and his hold upon the
people will be greatly strengthened in conse-
quence of the injury he has sustained.
 May the God of heaven, he who holds the
destinies of nations in His hands, preserve him,
that this Republic may not have to suffer the
stain of another martyrdom like that of Abra-
ham Lincoln.  There is at present every hope of
the recovery of the President, and the people
rejoice; and when the glad news is telegraphed
that all danger is past, the sounds of mirth and
joyousness, the shouts and acclamations that
were hushed with sorrow upon the nation’s glo-
rious day of Independence, will resound through-
out the land, and ringing peals of fervent ho-
sannas to God for his restoration to health and
happiness will rise from ten thousand voices in
one grand swelling chorus, not only from the
nation’s capital, and where the great and wise
gather to celebrate a nation’s gratitude, but the
people in their humble homes and lowly cottages
will pour forth their rejoicings like sweet incense
to heaven.
	The latest news up to date Is most favorable
for the President’s recovery.


THE PRESIDENT'S ASSASSINATION.

AN EYE WITNESS' NARRATIVE.

 “Mrs. Sarah E. White, the lady in charge of
the waiting room at the Baltimore depot, was
the person who first reached the President after
he was shot, and saw the whole thing.  The
man came in from this door, pointing to a door
at the east, entering the ladies' room from the
main waiting room, Just as the President entered
the middle door from B street, when he ap-
proached within five feet of the President and
fired, aiming as though at the President's heart
and missed him.  The President did not seem
to notice him, but walked right on past the
man; he fired again and the President fell.  He
fell right at the turn of the second row of seats.
I was the first to reach him and lifted up his
head.  The janitor rushed in and called police!
I held him till some men came and lifted him
up; he did not speak to me or anybody until a
young man, who I think was his son, came.
After he had vomited I think he said something
to him when he was lifted upon a mattress.  No
words passed between them; the man walked
deliberately out of the centre door, where some-
body headed him off.  He then turned and
walked back the way he came, and was seized at
the door by a policeman.  I have seen the man
once or twice before.  One time in particular I
noticed him a few days ago.  He promenaded
up and down just as he did to-day, wiping his
face and apparently excited.  I thought he was
waiting for some friends.  This morning he
waited an hour, walking up aud down.  There
were few people in the room when the shot was
fired.  After the shooting, the President was
laid on the floor until a mattress could be pro-
cured, and at once was removed to a room in
the second story of the depot.  Mr. Garfield’s
son was with him at the time, and as his father
fell, he burst into a paroxysm of tears.  Secre-
tary Blaine, Hunt and Lincoln and Postmaster-

General James, were all at the depot at the time.
The waiting room was crowded at the time, both
with northern and southern passengers, and
when the shot was fired, Mr. J. W. Wheeler, of
Hampton, Virginia, was seated with some ladies
close to the President. He heard the whizzing
of the ball uncomfortably near him.  He states
at the time of the first shot the assassin was not
over seven to eight feet from him.  Mr. Garfield,
when he fell, turned deadly pale, and soon after
he was carried up  stairs, he vomited.  Guitteau
was locked up and physicians were summoned.
On the arrival of the prisoner at headquarters
he was at once locked up, and word having been
sent in every direction for physicians. Dr. Town-
send, health officer, responded, and subsequently
Dr. J. H. Baxter, of the army, Dr. Tell, of the
navy, and Dr. D. W. Bliss responded.  Guitteau
did not throw the pistol away, but had it in his
hand when arrested.  The crowd outside the de-
pot seemed at a loss whether to go to the police
headquarters and lynch the party, but about
9:45 word came out of the room in which the
President had been taken that the wound on
the body was not necessarily fatal, but that the
ball could not be probed for until after, and that
one ball had wounded him in the right arm just
below the shoulder.  This seemed to relieve the
crowd somewhat, and while it became more and
more dense it quietly awaited further news. At
about 10 o’clock p. m. the chief of police, having
consulted with Sherman, ordered out a large de-
tail of the police force.  The police ambulance
was driven to the front door of the depot.  The
President appeared to be sleeping, and was
deathly pale, but just as he was placed in the
ambulance he opened his eyes.  The streets in
the neighborhood of the depot were lined with
people, everybody was very quiet.”


AN AFFECTING SCENE.
MRS.GARFIELD’S ARRIVAL AT THE WHITE
HOUSE AFTER THE ASSASSINATION.

 “As the hour approached at which Mrs. Gar-
field was expected to arrive, a sorrowful group
gathered on the south portico of the White
House to receive her.  A few minutes before 7
o’clock she arrived and was met at the front
door by Attorney General McVeagh, Mrs. Post-
master-General James and Mrs. Garfield’s eldest
son.  Her son placed his arm about her waist,
and led her into the house,sobbing. Strong men
who witnessed turned away and wept as they
heard the heart-broken sobs of the President’s
wife. Mrs. Garfield was imedately taken to the
bed-side of her husband who quieted her with
affectionate cheerfulness.  The scene that fol-
lowed was indescribable.  The presence of Mrs.
Garfield seemed to cheer her husband, and the
favorable turn in his condition which was ob-
served within an hour after her arrival was at-
tributed by the physicians to that fact. The
President’s pulse, which had been for some time
at 140 ran down to 128 and soon afterwards to
112.  At 9.40 he was reported to be sleeping
quietly, and Mrs. Garfield felt considerably en-
couraged, although the physicians shook their
heads and maintained the opinion that the case
was hopeless.”


HOME AFFAIRS.

 MRS. M. I. Horne and her daughter Miss Mat-
tie, retnrned Saturday evening from their trip
to Bear Lake Valley, much improved in health.

   THE Quarterly Conference of this Stake of
Zion was held in this city Saturday and Sunday,
9th and 10th of July.  The speakers seemed to


be especially endowed with the Spirit of God, to 
give instruction and connsel to the people. 

	THE County Central Committee met pursuant
to call in the Council House, Saturday, July 9,
at 12 M.  Hon. John Sharp, Chairman.  A ma-
jority being present, it was decided that Primary
meetings be held in the several county precincts
on Monday evening, the 18th inst., at 8 P.M.,
for the purpose of electing delegates to the
County Convention, which will be held in the
County Court House on Saturday, July 28,
1881, at 11 A.M.
				Wednesday July 13, 1881.
   DEAR SISTER WELLS:  Lest it should not be
understood will you please say through the EX-
PONENT that the 240 pages in type which is two 
sizes smaller than the small pica which I had
intended to use contains more lines of reading
matter than the 275 pages of small pica would
have done.  The books in leather binding will be
$1.50 cach, in cloth $1.25 cach. Those who have
advanced $.175 will have the 25 cts remitted to
them, and those who have remitted 1.00 can
forward the remainder when their books will be
promptly sent post paid. The books can be ob-
tained at the EXPONENT Office.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	"WILD Flowers of Deseret," just issued from 
the Juvenile Instructor Office, is a collection of
Poems, from the pen of the gifted lady, Mrs. 
Augusta Joyce Crocheron, of this city.  We
commend this beautiful little book to the public,
The pieces contained in this volume were many
of them written when the author was very
young. She has one of those exquisitely sensi-
tive natures which need encouragement.  The
poems are upon a variety of subjects, sentimental,
pathetic, moral, religious  &c., with only a few
personals.  They are rich in pathos and full of
sweet melody.  The lady hesitated greatly in
presenting her work feeling herself only a wild-
wood plant, secluded from the great busy world,
but her numerous friends were anxious her poet-
ical efforts should be known and appreciated.
One of the best of her longer poems is "The
Coming of the King," a very pathetic piece.
Parintha's Ride and a true story, the facts
being known to the author.  The poems are all
strictly in keeping with true religion.  Mrs. C.
though modest even to diffidence is a woman of
cultured thought and talent which has given ex-
pression to ideas, opinions, sentiments and facts,
and clothed them so beautifully that they cannot
fail to please, to edify and to elevate the reader.
We heartily recommend the book to old and 
young, and feel positive it will be a desirable ac-
quisition to the libraries of the people.  One of
the quaintest pieces we ever read is "The Lost
Thought" on page 223. It perusing this preci-
ous little book we find it difficult to select the
best and speak of them.  Wild flowers were
always sweet to us and as the book has been
dedicated to the writer, perhaps we may be ex-
cused from saying more than expressing our
heartflet gratitude for the honor conferred, of
which we feel most unworthy.  Accompanying
the Book which was the first intimation of the
facts was a most exquisite bouquet of real flowers
arranged artistically by the same hands, which
have written the many pretty and tender lines
the book contains.  The presentation was made
by a third party, a lady exceptionally gifted in
language. Such manifestations of frendship
and sisterly love, call forth from the heart emo-
tions that no words can truthfully express.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


VISIT TO BOX ELDER AND MALAD.
	The Ladies Conference in Ogden City closed
on the evening of the 11th, of June.  On the 12th, 
in company of Sister Jane S. Richards, attended


meeting in Plain City, returned to Ogden, (after
administering to some sick) and in the evening
went to Brigham City.
	On Mon. the 11th, in company of Sister H. A
Snow, Stake. Pres, of the Relief Society of Box-
Elder Co., Went to Harperville, met with the
Relief Society at 11 A. M., and in the afternoon
organized Primary Associations—one in the
East and one in the West Districts.
	On the l4th attended Box EIder Conference
with the Relief Society, and on the 15th with
the Y. L. M. I. A., and the P. A.  All well at-
tended. 16th met with Relief Society at 10 A.
M., and at 2 P.M. organized a P. A. in Honey-
ville.-- 17th Went from Brigham City to West
Portage and on the 18th to Malad City. 19th
met with  the Relief Society at 2 o'clock P.M. At
half past 7 met with the officers of the three
organizations R. S., Y. L. M. I.A., and P.
A.--had a very interesting time.  
	On the 20th went to Samaria met with the P.
A. at 9 A. M., and the Relief Society at 10--dined
and went to West Portage, met with the P. A. 
at 4 and the Relief Society at 5.  21st called at
Br. Zundell's on the "Indian Farm" -- from there
to Br. Standing's--met with the R.S. full meet-
ing, and returned to Brigham City. 
							E. R. S. S.


TO THE LADIES. 

	The ladies of this Territory who are native-
born or naturalized citizens, and who wish to
exercise the privilege of the ballot, should attend
the meetings of their respective Primaries and
get a correct understanding of the matter in
question, viz., the nomination of officers to be
voted for at the August election.  Every woman 
who values liberty should be punctual at the
polls, and cast her vote intelligently for the can-
didate of her choice.


OBITUARY
	Died: at Mt. Pleasant aged 22, June 20th 1881, 
Annetie Amelia Halsett, after a lingering illness
of 3 months; she was a patient sufferer, and a 
faithful Saint, and died in full hope of a glorious
resurrection.  She was a native of Norway and
emigrated to Utah with her family.  She came 
among us a stranger, but we can say of her that
she endeared herself to all who became ac-
quainted with her.  May she rest in peace.


APPRECIATION.
		SALT LAKE CITY, May 20,1881.
MRS. HANNAH CORNABY, 
	Dear Sister--I have been reading your little 
book, and knowing that appreciation is accept-
able to an Author, I tender you my sincere ad-
miration of  your life, writings, and spirit as a 
Christian lady, Latter-day Saint, and mother.  I 
am truly glad your book was offered to the pub-
lic, and it seems to me that if generous persons
would distribute some of these among those not
of our faith, they would do a missionary work, in
showing by your "life," that the women of Zion
are pure in heart and steadfast in purpose.
	Hoping that this may be recieved in the spirit
in which it is written, and that I may some day
have the pleasure to meet you.  Wishing you
further health and happiness.  I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Sister Mary A. Frantzen, Pres. of the R. S.
of Spring City with a number of the sisters of
the Society, met at the residence of Mrs. M. A.
Hyde July 1, at 8 o'clock P. M. and gave her a
surprise party, many expressed their thankful-


ness and appreciations of her most beneficial
counsel.
	Bishop Frederic Olsen was present and blessed
and encouraged the sisters with all the energy
of his soul. Pres Hyde was too overcome by
her feelings to say much, but made a few grate-
ful remarks in love and appreciation of the con-
fidence which the sisters showed for her. Most
earnestly wished she might prove herself worthy
of the implicit confidence with which they con-
fide in her.
	A number of nice presents were made her as
tokens of love and respect. We have also been
favored with a visit from Sister Sarah M. Kim-
ball, and S. M. Heywood, who met with our
Primaries in conference. Their report showed
that under the management of their Pres. their
Society is in a flourishing condition and is doing
a good work among them. They addressed the
children giving them much instruction which
will be like bread cast upon the waters. They
afterward met with the R. S. and addressed a
crowded audience of both sexes. Much good ad-
vice was given which if put in practice will prove
a lasting benefit to all those who were present.
Bishop Olsen heartily endorsed all that had
had been said, and asked God to bless and
strengthen them. 
	Success to the EXPONENT it is ever a welcome
visitor, and to all who are working for the estab-
lishment of truth is the wish of your sister in
the covenant.
						FANNY KOFFORD.

	A meeting was called on the afternoon of the
5th of June 1881 by Bishop W. S. Seely, at the
instigation of the sisters connected with the Re-
lief Society of Mt Pleasant, Sanpete Co., for the
purpose of giving a surprise to our esteemed Pres-
ident, Mrs. M. F. C. Morrson it being her 58th
birthday.
	Sister Morrison has labored untiringly in ful-
filling every duty that devolved upon her as
President of our Society for the last twelve years,
and it can truly be said of her, she has been a
Mother indeed, and as such we can fully appreci-
ate the good she has done in our midst; and pray
our Father in heaven that she may live long
and enjoy many returns of her natal day.
	She was presented with a handsome black silk
dress pattern and trimmings also a lady's valise. 
And what made the gift appreciated by her was
that almost every sister in Mt Pleasant contri-
buted so much towards the presents, thereby
showing their respect and esteem for one they so
dearly loved.
	An address in behalf of the sisters was read by
Sister Hasler. Sister Morrison replied in a very
affecting manner, yet fully appreciating the
spirit in which it was given; (for surely it was a
surprise.) Appropriate remarks were made by
Bishops Seely and Madsen, also Brother Morri-
son, (who was sent for by the sisters, without
the knowledge of Sister Morrison) and made one
of the party.
	Our young ladies sung some beautirul songs
suitable for the occasion and meeting closed with
prayer, all feeling well and much gratified with
their afternoon's entertainment.
				A. LOUISE HASLER, Sec'y.

	The family and friends of Sister Jane Baily,
President of the Relief Society Moroni, gave her
a surprise party on her 71st birthday July 4, 1881,
the tables were loaded with the bounties our
heavenly Father bestows upon his children. 
Songs, speeches and some very good instructions,
and many presents were given her as tokens of
respect for her faithful labors. One beautiful
chromo with the following inscription "There is
no place like home." Sister Baily thanked all
very kindly who had aided in making her 71st
birthday so pleasant and hoped that the Lord
would bless them. All enjoyed themselves
throughout the evening. Some verses were
written for the occasion by Sister A. M. Nielson.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

HONEYVILLE.

	Report of the organization of our Young
Ladies Mutual Improvement Association which
was organized by Sister Minnie J. Snow the
20th of last March, with officers as follows:
President, Sarah N. Hunsaker; Counselors,
Lucina Jensen, and Belle Tolman; Secretary
Maria Hunsaker; Assistant Sec'y., Minnie


Booth; Treasurer Eliza Hampton. We had
a very pleasant and instructive visit from
Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina D. Young,
Harriet Snow, and others from Brigham City
the 16th of June. They organized a Primary
Association in the forenoon with officers as
follows, President Mary Hunsaker; Counselors,
Mary Grant, and Julia Hunsaker; Secretary
Mary Ann Graham, Assistant Sec'y. Emily
Orme; Treasurer Freddie Graham.
	In the afternoon they met with the Relief
Society; and imparted excellent instructions to
all. The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor and
is doing much good toward allaying prejudice
against woman's cause. Ever praying for
its success, and the welfare of Zion.
	Your Sister in the Gospel of Christ.
					LAURA N. HUNSAKER.

RICHMOND.

	Our organization has at last been completed.
At our last monthly meeting Sister Frances
Teasdale was voted in as second Counselor to
President Myra Merrill, and Sister Rosina
Hyers as President of the Teachers. We have
the rock foundation laid for our house and hope
to have it built and finished ere winter sets in,
where we can hold meetings more comfortably
than we are now doing altho' we enjoy our-
selves very nicely in our Meeting Hall. On
the 4th of June we held our annual meeting
when we had the pleasure of having our es-
teemed friend Sister Libby Benson, President
of Relief Societies of Cache Valley Stake, pre-
sent with her first Counselor Sister Louie Ben-
son; had the comfort and blessing of our sisters
which made us rejoice. I am pleased to say
there is very little sickness here tho' we have
had very serious times, having had six deaths
occur within a short time of each other lately.
		Yours in the truth,
					BETSYBROWER, Sec'y.

FAIRVIEW.

	The Relief Society of Fairview held their
13th annual meeting on June the 14th, com-
mencing at 10 o,clock A. M. The forenoon
was occupied with the usual exercises, reading
of reports, voting in officers. A few cheering
remarks from Bishop Tucker, Counselor Lar-
son and others. The programme gotten up by
the committee was carried out and we had a
most enjoyable time, ended with a picnic, in
which all were invited to participate. A danc-
ing party was given in the afternoon and even-
ing.
	One of the enterprises in which our sisters
are engaged is making cheese on the coopera-
tive principle which so far has been a success.
	On the 19th of May, Sister M. A. P. Hyde
and Sister Kofford of Spring City and Sister
Petersen of Ephriam with several other sisters,
visited our place and held meetings with the
Relief Society and Primary Association in the
afternoon and met with the Young Ladies in
the evening. The Spirit of the Lord attended
them and they gave much good counsel which
we hope to see carried out. Such visits from
our sisters come like refreshing dew and we
pray that in blessing they may be blessed.
				M. A. PRITCHETT, Pres.
				LOIS A. WILSON Sec'y


30	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Conference of Relief Societies of Salt
Lake Stake was held June 17, 1881, in the
14th, Ward Assembly Rooms. Mrs. M. Isa-
bella Horne presiding. Opening by singing,
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation,"

[Column 2]
Prayer by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard. Singing
"Let Zion in her beauty rise &c."
	Mrs. Horne made some opening remarks,
and expressed her intense interest in the work
of the Latter-days.
	1st Ward reported by Mrs. Margaret Steele,
2nd Ward, Sarah Mac Gregor, 3d Mrs. Eliza-
beth Weiler, 4th, Mrs. Jane Smith, 6th Mrs.
R. Fulmer, 7th, Mrs. Alice Needham, 8th, Mrs.
Barney, 9th Mrs. Sarah Groo, 10th, Mrs. Jane
Earle, 12th, Mrs. Julia Druce, 13th, Mrs. B.
W. Smith, 14th, Mrs. M. A. Wilcox, 15th,
Mrs. R. Jones, 16th, Mrs. Diana Reid, 18th,
Mrs. Ellen Barton, 19th, Mrs. Whipple, 20th,
Mrs. Miller. After hearing from these branches
of the organization the meeting closed by sing-
ing Doxology, Benediction by Mrs. B. W.
Smith, adjournment until 2 P. M.
	Afternoon Session; meeting opened by sing-
ing "How firm a foundation ye saints of the
Lord" Prayer by Mrs. E. S. Taylor, singing
"O my Father thou that dwellest" &c. Mrs.
Spencer reported North Jordan Ward, Sugar
House Ward, Mrs. S. B. Gibson, Union Mrs.
Griffiths, Pleasant Green, Mrs. Elvira Hirst.
Brighton Mrs. M. A. Hazon. Mrs. Horne
after giving some special instructions to Presi-
dents said, the Lord has called his handmaidens
to help in this great work, and it is worth liv-
ing for and working for, but we are too much
engrossed in looking after the things of the
world but as Latter-day Saints it is not the
most important matter, it would be better for
us to look after the kingdom of God and its
righteousness and everything else will be added
unto us. We realize the more we come together
the more we will love each other and we will
get stirred up to come and meet together, and
every time we come to meeting we feel warmed
up and think we will try and perform this duty.
I understand many in the country are raising
silk and many making an effort in gathering
wheat. Let us be wise in these things. The
Lord blest Sister Zina and I when we were
traveling South. There were showers of rain so
that many brethren were able to hitch up their
teams and come with their families to meeting,
which they could not have done if it had not
rained. We hope all the sisters will respond
to making the 4th of July a day of rejoicing.
We want all our sisters who are citizens and
have the right to vote to do so and not be care-
less about this privilege. Let us appreciate
this blessing which we have had put into our
hands.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor spoke of the Conference at
Provo which she had recently attended, urged
the Sisters to attend the Conference and the
Saturday semi-monthly meetings. We must
work for our exaltation ourselves. There are
many things for us to do, we have been coun-
seled in regard to storing up wheat, let us en-
deavor to carry this out, and also let me say to
the sisters to take an interest in the coming 4th,
let us help to make a rousing good time, and
let us show our patriotism and willingness to
help the brethren in this celebration. Spoke
of the healing power of God and told some of
her experience.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball, I have been pleased at
hearing the sentiments expressed here to-day, I
was gratified to hear Sister Taylor speak as she
did about the coming celebration, we ought to
read and get an understanding of the principles
of government and become familiar with the
Declaration of Independence, for our own
benefit and the benefit of our children.	*	*	*
*	Let us get ready and have rousing good 4th;
I like the barbacue, I like to have company in
eating.
	I have just returned from a visit to Sanpete
we had large congregations everywhere we
went, it caused me to feel very humble and to
depend altogether on the Spirit of God.	*	*	*
The way I understand life is to do all the good
we can and make all as happy as we can.

[Column 3]
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said, I believe I could
speak better if this house was full. I have just
returned from a visit to Grantsville, where we
attended Conference and we had large congre-
gations and a very good turn out of the breth-
ren at every meeting.
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson, I rejoice in meeting
with you all this afternoon and in bearing tes-
timony to the work of God. I hope we will
not get careless and indifferent concerning
that which is for our good. I have read with
surprise the letter which has been referred to,
written by a lady in the United States declin-
ing public work because she was a wife and
mother—We, who are in this kingdom feel that
it is because we are wives and mothers that our
hearts and sympathies go out to all humanity
and we seek to bless and benefit others besides
those of our own household. It is as wives and
mothers that we desire to stand side by side
with our husbands and sons in building up this
kingdom. If we shrink from our duty who
will take it up? Let us take hold of this com-
ing celebration, and show the government that
we understand and appreciate our privileges by
making it a success. The time may come when
we may be called to celebrate a woman's day
of independence, and as women of this Repub-
lic let us be alive to our duties whatever our
enemies may have to say against us. I pray
that we may be united, and that we may seek
to be fed at the fountain of all truth—our
spirits require to be fed with food that will
promote our eternal growth—the body could
not exist long upon one meal of food a week,
neither can our souls exist without spiritual
nourishment. Those who attend their meetings
punctually will be fed and will grow in know-
ledge and usefulness. Mrs. E. C. S. Clawson Pres.
of the Primary Associations of Stake, spoke of
the Children's Conference to be held the next
morning in the Assembly Hall and invited
children parents and grandparents to come &c.
	Mrs. Rachel R. Grant spoke of the good
time she had in St. George last winter.
Thought we should interest ourselves in getting
up our records, we have many principles in
the Gospel. We will feel very happy when
we meet with our loved ones who are gone, and
let us so live that we can be happy and joyful
all the time. The Spirit of God will bring us
joy and peace all the day long. Felt that the
Primary Associations would do much good,
and realized we should set our children a good
example, our experience will be profitable to
the rising generation, all may not have to pass
through the same. We should know very
little about the hereafter only for the Gospel.
Our young people would be much more happy
and enjoy themselves better if they had the
spirit of the Gospel in their hearts.
	Mrs. Horne was much pleased with the spirit
of the Conference and said, I do not know of
any family having suffered by the sisters being
called to fill an office. The Lord will always
open a way for us to fill our positions if we op-
en our hearts and do aM the good we can for
the good of all the community. Spoke against
the sisters sendiug their children to outside
schools, parents would be held responsible, ad-
vised mothers to know where their children
were at night and have them retire early;
hoped the Lord would enlighten the minds of
of his handmaidens, said she felt a care over
the sisters of this Stake.
	Mrs. Kimball made a few remarks on the
subject of hired help. thought something could
be done that would materially benefit young
girls who needed employment and those who
employed them &c.
	Conference adjourned to September 16, sang
"Lord dismiss us &c." Benediction by Mrs.
M. P. Young.
					E. HOWARD, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 31


[Column 1]
SPANISH FORK.

	On Saturday June the 11th ult. the Primary
Association of Spanish Fork had a Jubilee.
Arrangements had been previously made to
spend the day at a grove a short distance from
town, but in consequence of the weather being
unsettled, it was deemed wisdom to conduct the
exercises in the meeting house. The children
assembled at 10 A. M. dressed in holiday attire,
their countenances beaming with pleasure and
anticipation. The members of the brass band
kindly left their occupations and enlivened the
scene with sweet music. All being ready, the
little ones were formed in line, and headed by
the band marched up Center street and coun-
termarched to the meeting house, when they
were called to order by their President, and
the following programme was rendered in a
manner that reflected much credit to the child-
ren, and indicated great labor and care on the
part of their instructors. Singing "In the
Chambers of the Mountains;" Lord's prayer in
concert. Singing—"Joseph Smith's First
<ljosepb. smith’s-'first="" prayer.’="" -="" questions="" on,="" church="" history.="" singing-“cbeautifui="" fountain="" -jhome,t(from="" sister="" hannah,="" icornaby’s="" .pppms="" and.="" .songs)="" i)="" iet="" byiiss="" .maggie="" and="" htastrxndrew="" .mor?="" gan.="" v="" remarks="" by-elder="" a.="" ferguson="" jsinging="" “gatherlfoemjnfco="" the="" fold?'="" elder="" jra.lewis,="" -singings="" “in="" our-lovely-deseret."="" benediction="" i,="" tke="" employers="" offhocoop="" "fatorefur="" disked="" a="" bountiful="" supply="" of="" candyaod="" raisins="" to="" up-="" yfafdsfo="" childfenl,'="" !'="" 1="" %="" 'tile="" mumoal.oxprxii,="" were="" (conducted'="" by="" prof.="" wm.="" r%="" jones,="" who="" labored="" assiduously="" in="" training'ther’litlle="" folks;="" 'r,t="" on="" sunday="" morning="" jmembers="" primary="" were-invltedby="" loun.choir="" leader="" leadj.thecongregational="" siugmgwhich="" they,-="" did="" admirably;="" astoriishirigjind="" delighting="" all="" who.hearil="" -them..="" brothercof-naby.,:="" accom-="" panied-themon="" tbe="" organ.-="" -:="" :="" 1-="" primry="" ci="" ation;="" spanish="" .fprjis="" prosperous="" condition'under'="" able="" man-="" agement="" its="" pridentjjiss="" m.="" mclean="" her;="" faithful="" assistants,-="" -“="" "="" t="" .-i..:="" .7..="" ...="" h.="" c.="" '11j="" ,7trrrn="" .="" --="" h="" avmyopodenv="" a.vl,="" onajuriayfyunqiuti’was-="" &e;="" 'cbnfereuce="" associations,at="" which’="" prest.'joseph="" ft="" smith="" was="" present,="" request="" chil-="" dren="" cfcogdeff="" ctk3="" meetlngwasbnducted="" prest.="" josephitie="" k.="" w&ti;="" presided="" with="" quiet="" dignity.="" after="" singing="" ths="" .chil-="" dren,="" lana-pyphjby.apostlq.="" f-tlichards,="" again,="" minutes="" tad,="" followed="" imterestipg="" ;exercie3="" iyltbevlituelhlks.="" mrs.="" jan:j5="" richards="" addressellhe="" drenajew..minutes,="" praising="" their="" good="" order-="" attentiop.="" sisterxelizg,="" rjjshow="" aid.she.was="" very="" pleased="" meet="" children="" see="" bright,="" happy4ace="" she="" told="" them'="" of1="" ser-="" vices="" at'="" kirtlan'd;="" whn="" father="" grandfather="" joseph="" f.="" smith'was="" there,="" paid="" they="" had="" four="" services;="" every="" day;.jit="" temple;="" sick'and="" lame="" came'to="" be="" healed,="" wouhhhr'orraway="" crutches="" gorhotnawhoiea="" ond="" ‘day="" fathersmith="" tpifestation="" cof="" spirits="" od'the'="" day="" pehtecost,’="" 'and="" his="" grayer="" answered,="" and.thetemple="" filled="" ith="" spirit="" god,="" sound="" as="" %mg...of,wind?="" roaring,="" pf-flamea.="" irsheskedjtha="" feveraluestions,="" ivluch'ere="" promptiymnawered.loj-,-="" r="" presttjoseph="" then="" spoke,="" ex-="" -----o="" v.auv.10w="" ttliu.="" llio="" .----)thaur.,'j="" iriie.j;pointed="" -nut-'the="" blessing="" sister-el="" r.="" snow="" jsinlth="" fhad="" wn="" zion="" employing="" her="" tal-="" ents="" in-writingfor="" and.othersand.="" organizing="" these="" associations.-="" he="" wished="" impress="" upon="" the.="" fact="" ‘="" beidg="" sons="" daughters="" the-="" saints,-born="" new="" everlasting="" coven--="" ant;-'by="" which="" became="" legitimatfe="" heirs'.tbi="" thb-pnesthood--heirs="" god="" and’="" joihb="" heirs="" with-ohri't;.="" there="" a,command="" given="" ehilcfrerr="" ancient="" israel="" to.'="" honor="" fathers="" mothers,="" urged="" it3;ful-="" filment’-upon-="" bf="" modern="" israel.="" jesus'="" christ,="" when="" earth,="" gave="" great-="" estcommandment,="" -“thou,="" shalt="" love="" lord="" thy="" heart="" neighbor="" thyself.”="" keep-this="" command-;="" merit="" will="" rieyer="" fell="" lie,="" steal,;curse="" or="" swea'r,.="" and-if="" thus="" keep-god’s="" wordy="" heal="" them="" are="" sick="" through;="" faith="" the'="" laying="" hands="" elders.="" eldeysmith="" children;="" mob="" murdered="" prophet-joseph="" brother="" hyruin,="" drove="" saints="" from="" homes="" across="" the'pldiris,="" now-that="" we="" here="" valleyshf="" mountains,="" mobbers="" coming="" teach="" our="" boys="" girls="" religion.="" speaker="" emphatically="" not="" go="" their-="" schools="" nor="" as-="" sociate="" any="" gentiles="" anywhere,="" con-="" cluded="" biasing="" name="" christ.--="" ’v-="" r,="" ’="" in'="" the’afternoon="" exercises="" continued;="" sistereliza="" r;="" smith;="" pjest.="" smith,="" apostle="" d.="" dr.="" ellen="" b.="" each="" addressed="" meeting="" advice'="" niuch'-eh-="" cquragement="" persever'd="" course="" pursuing,="" become="" valfarit="" in:="" the'1="" 3)rd?s="" army,-="">Prayer." Questions on Church History.
Singing "Beautiful Mountain Home," (From
Sister Hannah Cornaby's Poems and Songs)
Duet by Miss Maggie and Master Andrew Mor-
gan. Remarks by Elder A. Ferguson, singing
"Gather them into the fold." Remarks Elder
J. A. Lewis, singing "In our lovely Deseret."
Benediction.
	The employers of the Coop Store furnished
a bountiful supply of candy and raisins to up-
wards of 400 children.
	The musical exercises were conducted by
Prof. Wm. R. Jones, who labored assiduously
in training the little folks.
	On Sunday morning the members of the
Primary were invited by our choir leader to
lead the congregational singing, which they
did admirably; astonishing and delighting all
who heard them. Brother Cornaby accom-
panied them on the organ.
	The Primary Association of Spanish Fork is
in a prosperous condition under the able man-
agement of its President, Miss M. A. McLean
and her faithful assistants.
								H. C.

PRIMARY OF OGDEN.

	On Saturday June 11th was the Conference
of Primary Associations, at which Prest. Joseph
F. Smith was present, by request of the chil-
dren of Ogden. The meeting was conducted
by Prest. Josephine R. West, who presided
with quiet dignity. After singing by the chil-
dren, and prayer by Apostle F. D. Richards,
and singing again, minutes were read, followed
by imteresting exercises by the little folks.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards addressed the chil-
dren a few minutes, praising their good order
and attention.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith said she was very
pleased to meet with the children and see their
bright, happy faces; she told them of the ser-
vices at Kirtland, when Father Smith, the
grandfather of Prest. Joseph F. Smith, was
there, and they had four services every day in
the Temple, and the sick and the lame came to
be healed, and would throw away their crutches
and go home whole. One day Father Smith
prayed for a manifestation of the Spirit as
they had on the day of Pentecost, and his
prayer was answered, and the Temple was filled
with the Spirit of God, and a sound as of a
rushing of winds and roaring of flames was
heard; she asked the children several questions,
which were promptly answered.
	Prest. Joseph F. Smith then spoke, and ex-
pressed his pleasure at meeting with the
children and hearing their exercises and the
speeches made to them. He pointed out the
blessing Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith had been
to the children of Zion by employing her tal-

[Column 2]
ents in writing for the children and others, and
in organizing these Primary Associations. He
wished to impress upon the children the fact
of their being sons and daughters of the
Saints, born in the new and everlasting coven-
ant, by which they became legitimate heirs to
the priesthood—heirs of God and joint heirs
with Christ. There was a command given by
God to the children of ancient Israel to honor
their fathers and mothers, and he urged its ful-
filment upon the children of modern Israel.
Jesus Christ, when on earth, gave as the great-
est commandment, "Thou shalt love the Lord
thy God with all thy heart and thy neighbor as
thyself." Children who keep this command-
ment will never tell a lie, steal, curse or swear,
and if they thus keep God's word, He will heal
them when they are sick, through faith and the
laying on of hands of the Elders. Elder Smith
told the children of the mob who murdered the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum,
and drove the Saints from their homes across
the plains, and now that we are here in the
valleys of the mountains, the children of these
mobbers were coming to teach our boys and
girls religion. The speaker told the children
emphatically not to go to their schools nor as-
sociate with any Gentiles anywhere, and con-
cluded by blessing the children in the name of
Jesus Christ.
	In the afternoon the exercises of the children
continued. Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, Prest.
Joseph F. Smith, Apostle F. D. Richards and
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson each addressed the
meeting and gave good advice and much en-
couragement to them to persevere in the course
they were pursuing, and become valiant in the
Lord's army,
	Closed by singing, benediction, and Primary
Conference adjourned for three months.


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	But what of James Wyvil! his feelings may
be more easily imagined than described. It is
written "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbors'
wife." He had not intended to do so, and had
not thought of sinning. He had waited until
she was free from Jesse and never expected to
see him any more. He had taken such a
course as could not place him under condem-
nation. He thought God would not condemn
him and his own conscience approved, but he
had plucked the fruit and it had turned to
Dead Sea apples. How many lauded him
when he married her, they would gladly have
done the same, but now they were ready to say
"it served him right he might have known
it." "Such is life" it is the way of the world. 
Jesse Burns was too true a man to desert
his wife and children, said those who had been
loudest in condemning him. It was a peculiar
situation to be placed in. Even had he chosen
to have given her up, he could not say to Jesse,
"here she is you can have your wife back
again;" for she was not land nor gold, nor
household goods, and the marriage covenant by
which she was bound to him was an eternal one.
Weeks and months went by. The sun shone,
the showers fell, the days dawned and darkened,
and the summer passed away. To Mary it all
seemed a wretched farce. She could not see
the hand of providence, the clouds so darkened
and obscured it. She could not see that Jesse
was drifting away, being carried farther, and
farther on the tide of prejudice and unbelief.
She could not see that the demon of strong
drink was binding him, stronger and firmer in

[Column 2]
his degrading bands, for intoxication had not
yet conquered his manly pride; but the
destroyer was there, and the chains were being
forged no less strong and sure, because in
silence and in darkness. In James Wyvil she
had a rock of refuge, but she blinded by her
idolatrous love failed to realize it. Her pride
was wounded by the position she was placed in.
How few could know how really blameless she
was. How many who were first to counsel her
were now ready to condemn.
	To Minnie who was proud and sensitive to a
fault the position was a trying one, and her
grief was not lessened when her father informed
her that he intended to marry again. He
called for her one Sunday morning to go to
meeting, and on the way informed her that he
had chosen a wife who would share his destiny.
Minnie could say but little, for surely he had
as much right to marry again as her mother
had. She could only weep and beg him to con-
sider well his choice, for some subtle instinct
told her that it would bring no happiness to
himself nor to his children.
	He said, he was yet a young man and should
not live his life alone; no doubt the lady he
had chosen would make him an intelligent
companion. As neither of them knew any
reason why she would not, it was as well per-
haps that it should be her as any one.
	She was a widow lady some years younger
than Jesse. Her mother dying left the family
in her care. It consisted of a brother eighteen
years old at that time, two sisters, fourteen and
sixteen and a little boy of ten. She worked at
dressmaking, and it was by employing the lady
in that way that Minnie and her father became
acquainted with her. She was not a handsome
woman, but her intelligence and address made
her a pleasant companion when she chose to
exert herself. Jesse made short wooing and
they were soon married. He did not take his
wife from her charge, but went to live with the
family and built them a nice house that fall.
	When it was finished he invited Minnie to
live with them, which she was glad to do, as
she could no longer feel at home in James
Wyvil house. It was a bitter blow to Mary,
but she could only suffer in silence.
	Minnie went to school that winter and was
also thrown much in society, for her father's
wife moved in the best circles and held a pos-
ition which Minnie's mother's long isolation
had deprived her of. Not that Mary failed to
draw around her intelligent and refined com-
panions, but she did not feel like going much in
society.
	The two girls Grace and Maria were nice
agreeable girls, although sometimes a little jeal-
ous of the attention shown Minnie for she was
well received and much sought after. In the
spring Jesse said he must return to California
to look after his business as he had left it in
the hands of his partner. Preparations were
accordingly made to take his wife and leave
Minnie with the rest of the family. She felt
very bad to have him go away. There was no
love between her and the present Mrs. Burns
but she felt that she would be lonely indeed
when her father was gone.
	The day came at last for starting, and Minnie
watched them with a feeling of dumb agony,
until her father came and kissed her good-bye,
when she went away to hide her grief, for she
felt that it was too sacred for any one to wit-
ness, and her extreme sensibility caused her to
fear their ridicule.
	When she came in again they were gone
and she felt inexpressibly lonely, for she re-
alized that she had perhaps, parted with her
father for the last time.
	She kept a brave heart and a merry one, to
all outward appearance; but none knew the
loneliness, the aching void, nor the silent tears
that were shed when others were sleeping. Nor
how often she envied her associates who were


blessed with homes where a father and mother
guarded over them, and love and union held its
sacred influence in their hearts.
	She was not without admirers, but there was
no one with whom she felt to trust her life's
happiness.
	When another year had passed Mary was
again left alone, with an infant daughter of
James Wyvil's she felt something of the old-
time desolation at being thrown once more on
the world. She felt deeply the parting with
James, for she had long since given up all
thoughts of Jesse. He too had placed a barrier
between them that could not be overlooked.
Was he happy in so doing. How many of us
in our anxiety for a change ever make one for 
the better.
	On going to California he resumed his busi-
ness and, for awhile prospered. He built a
large hotel and rented it, which brought him
a good income.  He often wrote to Minnie and
sent her money.  He also informed her that he
had made a will giving the hotel to his children.
Nettie and herself were all he had. To his
wife he gave a valuable farm. Minnie knew
little of them except what he chose to write, but
rumors came that he was drinking hard, then
there was a long silence broken now and then
with word that he was going to the bad.
		  To be continued.


32	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	SOCIAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION.—The sixth
regular meeting of the District of Columbia
Social Science Association was held at the resi-
dence of Prof. and Mrs. H. C. Spencer, Satur-
day evening, June 25, at 8 o'clock. Perma-
nent officers were elected as follows: President,
Mrs. Sara A. Spencer; Vice-Presidents, Hon.
John Eaton, Mrs. Maria T. Walling, Hon.
John Hitz; Secretary, Dr. Wm. Tindall; Treas-
urer, Rev. A. Floridus Steele. General John
Eaton was elected delegate to the general
meeting of the American Social Science Asso-
ciation at Saratoga, September 5, 1881, and
Hon. John Hitz was elected alternate. Mrs.
Spencer, who, at the May meeting, was elected
delegate to the convention of the Associated
Charities Department of American Social
Science Association at Boston, July 25, re-
quested that an alternate be elected. Mrs.
Walling was elected alternate. Instructions
were then given as to the subjects the District
association desired their delegate to represent
at this Boston conference. It was especially
urged that the duty the whole country owes to
the charities and other interests of this national
capital be clearly stated. The resident mem-
bers of the American Social Science Associa-
tion in Washington are Pres. Garfield, Gen.
Francis A. Walker, Hon. John Eaton, Presi-
dent Welling, of Columbia College, President
Gallaudet, of the Deaf Mute Asylum, Charles
Nordhoff, of the Herald, and (ex-officio) the
president, secretary and treasurer of the Dis-
trict of Columbia Association.—The Evening
Star, Washington, D. C.
	SPENCERIAN Business College Commence-
ment, May 25, 1881. Lincoln Hall, Washing-
ton, D. C., was beautifully decorated in honor
of the graduating class of 1881. "The stage
was gracefully draped with flags and streamers,
and adorned with the shields of the States and
nations represented by the graduates, and in
the foreground were banks of floral offerings
from admiring friends."
	There was music by Donch's orchestra, and
Professor and Mrs. Spencer, Rev. Chauncey
Giles, President of the Swedenborgian Conven-
tion, Hon. Francis A. Walker, Superintendent
of the Census, and other distinguished people
were upon the platform. The salutatory was
delivered by D. E. McIlhinny, in which he

[Column 2]
made a hit at the lavish waste of time by the
U. S. Senate, which was heartily applauded;
Following this a piano solo, Oberon, and then
"the ladies' valedictory was delivered by Miss
Adele M. Garesche, of Missouri. It was a fine
production, teeming with rich thought, the
chief idea being that although woman's pur-
pose in life will ever be to secure the happiness
of those dear to her, yet all humanity should
be dear to her, and her sphere limited only by
her capacity."
	Valedictory in behalf of the gentlemen
graduates gave evidence of original thought
and close observation of men and events. "He
made a strong argument in favor of business
pursuits as developing the resources, founding
and sustaining the charities and improving the
condition of the whole world. His voice and
bearing and the fine points he made won re-
peated applause."
	Piano solo, The Storm, by a young lady.
	Mrs. Sara A. Spencer addressed the lady
graduates, telling them the world needed them
somewhere, and she trusted they would not
cheapen the value of their labor by besieging
members of Congress for "influence" to get a
chance to earn their bread. A Cabinet minis-
ter (Secretary Windom) had told her three-
fourths of his time was consumed in this man-
ner. She said Gen. Francis A. Walker had
reformed the civil service by setting an exam-
ple which other departments must soon follow,
of appointing women and promoting them
upon merit and efficiency on equal terms with
men."
	Prof. Spencer addressed the young gentle-
men, "calling their attention to the inspiring
history of James A. Garfield."
	"Rev. Chauncey Giles gave them an open
secret to business success—a worthy purpose."
	"Gen. Francis A. Walker then made a brief
but eloquent address, in which he stated his
own personal experience with the graduates of
the Spencerian Business College. He said the
work in his bureau was for a limited time, but
being statistical it was a severe test of mental
training and executive ability. He presented
a schedule containing the names of seventeen
graduates of this college in his bureau. Of
these not one had proven unreliable or incom-
petent or inefficient. All were ranked above
the average, and nine had attained the highest
possible record in their divisions. In behalf
of the public service it gave him pleasure to
say he would regard a diploma of graduation
from the Spencerian Business College as a suf-
ficient guarantee of qualifications without fur-
ther endorsement. It gave him peculiar pride
and pleasure to award the diplomas to this class
of '81."
	"He then, in a most pleasing and graceful
manner, awarded the diplomas."


RESPECT.
				  -----
	A surprise party took place June 27 at Bro.
Jones’ residence Hoytsville in honor of his
daughter, Sister Emma Webb, who is about to
leave this Ward. She has been President of
the Young Ladies Association for a long time
and Assistant Sec'y. of the Relief Society and
a faithful teacher in the Sunday School ever
since its organization. The Young Ladies and
and sisters of the Relief Society met and spent
a pleasant evening, we had singing and a re-
citation and the sisters expressed their good
wishes and thanked her for past services. The
President of the Relief Society presented her
with the book of Sister E.R. Snow’s Poems,
and the young ladies with other presents to
which she responded gratefully, and exhorted
the young ladies and rising generation to be
faithful, honest, truthful and virtuous. We
closed by singing and prayer at ten o’clock.
				MARTHA WILENSON.


IT is expected that Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson will
lecture in Ogden, Logan, Kaysville, Farming-
ton and Salt Lake City, during the coming
month. Sister Ferguson's ability as a lectnrer
is highly spoken of both here and in the States
where she resided before coming to Utah.


PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
				MRS. C. E. DYE,

	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
	to call  her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
	NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
	nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
	Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
	shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
	Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
		PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Office and residence over the Contributor Office, north of Z.C.M.I
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Woman and Children as specialities.

THE LADIES	
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
			      BEST SELECTED STOCK of BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
	Also, full and desirable liines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
found in the West			 Your Orders are Solicited.
					GEO. DUNFORD
_________________________________________________________

				    F. AUERBACH &BRO.
		HAVE
REMOVED THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
	PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
	the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City

Z.C.M.I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
		     DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
			    HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE, GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
		     AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, Etc.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
		 Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
		 Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S.P. TEASDEL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
					      FURNITURE,
  SPRING BEDS, WIRE, MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75,77, & 79, FIRST SOUTH STREET, 
SALT LAKE CITY

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.

OFFICE-- Up Stairs, in old Constitution Building.
Residence--Six blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
Special study has been given to Obstetries, Diseases of
     Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations
