VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1881.	No. 13.


THE PRAISE OF CHARITY.

13TH CHAPTER OF 1ST CORINTHIANS.

Had I the power to speak with tongue
	Of angel from the highest sphere,
As sounding brass I should become,
	If charity were wanting here!

And though I stood as one of old
	To prophecy of things to come,
With language apt, and spirit bold,
	Or with the gift of unknown tongue;
Or could I by my faith remove
	The mountain from its pristine site;
Or all the hidden mysteries prove,
	And lay them bare to human sight—
Before the Omniscient eye of God,
	He has declared I still should be
"As nothing!"—but a humble clod—
	If lacking Heaven-born Charity!

And tho' my goods to feed the poor
	I give—assuming saintly guise,
The Omniscient Judge would close the door
	Of mercy from before mine eyes,
If charity did not propel
	The motive spring of action here;
And vain 'twould be for me to tell
	I'd fed, and clothed, and shed the tear!
And though upon the funeral pyre
	My body to be burned I'd given,
If charity did not inspire
	All closed would be the gate of heaven!

What strong, uncompromising creed
	In thrilling words is here laid down?
Assist thy people in their need,
	Or, Father, they will lose their crown!

And now the sweet and gentle form
	Of charity is held to view,
By pen Omniscient she is drawn
	Exemplar there for me, and you!

She suffereth long—is ever mild,
	Endureth all things, day and night,
Believeth all things, as a child,
	And hopeth all things good and bright.

When all the elements decay,
	And prophecies and tongues shall fail,
Blest charity shall soar away
	Beyond creations' boundless pale!

And now abideth faith and hope
	And charity!—these holy three!
For all there is immortal scope,
	But oh! their crown is charity!

							HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 7, 1881.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

CONCLUDED.

	P. S. It has been said that a woman's letter
is never finished without a postscript, for she is
sure to forget some idea or sentiment which
must be added; and in the present instance I
beg the indulgence of my readers for forget-
ting one important item in the history of Sister
Eliza, which should be chronicled among her
other literary works of merit. I have sought
in this pen sketch of her life to gather up all
facts which would tend to stimulate the young
to follow in her footsteps, and also to record
the real work of this venerable lady, that the
Saints might comprehend and appreciate her
multifarious labors. Directly after issuing the
Primary Hymn Book for the children, of which,

﻿[Column 2]
by the bye, over twelve thousand copies have
already been sold, and ten thousand are to be
issued very soon, Sister Eliza, with her quick-
ness of discernment, saw the necessity of a
TUNE BOOK, to accompany the Hymn Book,
and set about preparing it immediately. She
arranged the hymns to selected music, although
most of the musical composition was original
with our people; this she carefully compiled
for the publishers previous to her visit to St.
George last winter. The Tune Book has been
a great help to those who have charge of the
Sunday Schools, as well as the Primary Asso-
ciations, and is now used in nearly every settle-
ment in Zion. It proves the versatility of tal-
ent possessed by this clever woman, and shows
what one may accomplish even at what is con-
sidered an advanced age, by application and
continuity. Her labors for the children of Zion
have been almost unceasing, and she is at the
present time diligently engaged in compiling a
series of books of recitations and dialogues for
their especial benefit.
	The following poem, composed for the pur-
pose of closing this history of her life was
handed to me some time since (you may per-
haps wonder I should forget it), and furnishes
another reason for my postscript. The lady
speaks for herself her own sentiments, express-
ing her ideas of the vanity of all earthly fame
as compared with the glories of futurity, if we
secure the prize which the Apostle designates
as "the mark of the high calling in Christ
Jesus:"						E. B. W.

BURY ME QUIETLY WHEN I DIE.

When my spirit ascends to the world above,
To unite with the choirs in celestial love,
Let the finger of silence control the bell,
To restrain the chime of a funeral knell:
Let no mournful strain—not a sound be heard
By which a pulse of the heart is stirred—
No note of sorrow to prompt a sigh:
Bury me quietly when I die.

I am aiming to earn a celestial crown—
To merit a heavenly, pure renown;
And, whether in grave or in tomb I'm laid—
Beneath the tall oak, or the cypress shade;
Whether at home with dear friends around,
Or in distant lands, upon stranger ground—
Under wintry clouds, or a summer sky:
Bury me quietly when I die.

What avails the parade and the splendor here,
To a legal heir to a heavenly sphere?
To heirs of salvation what is the worth,
In their perishing state, the frail things of earth?
What is death to the good, but an entrance gate
That is placed on the verge of a rich estate,
Where commissioned escorts are waiting by?
Bury me quietly when I die.

On the "iron rod" I have laid my hold;
If I keep the faith, and like Paul of old
Shall "have fought the good fight," and Christ the Lord
Has a crown in store with a full reward
Of the holy Priesthood in fulness rife,
With the gifts and the powers of an endless life,
And a glorious mansion for me on high:
Bury me quietly when I die.

When the orb of day sinks down in the west,—
When its light reclines on the evening's crest—
When the lamp in the socket is low and dim—
When the cup of life is filled up to the brim—
When the golden Autumn's brief glass has run,
And gray Winter with whit'ning tread moves on—
When the arrow of death from its bow shall fly:
Bury me quietly when I die.

[Column 3]
Like a beacon that rises o'er ocean's wave,
There's a light—there's a life beyond the grave;
The future is bright, and it beckons me on
Where the noble and pure and the brave have gone;
Those who battled for truth with their mind and might,
With their garments clean and their armor bright:
They are dwelling with God in a world on high:
Bury me quietly when I die.
									E. R. S. S.
	Salt Lake City, July, 1881.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	A thousand and one opinions are being daily
expressed concerning the polygamous "Mor-
mons" and their destiny, but the more they try
to solve the problem the harder and more in-
tricate it becomes, which is the natural conse-
quence of ignorance.
	The results which they predict would be
inevitable were it the work or scheme of men,
but as it is the work of the great God, who
will, not behold iniquity with any degree of
allowance, and having promised that the king-
dom shall not be given to any other people; if
we sin He will punish, and if we go astray He
will chasten us. Every principle which the
Lord reveals for the exaltation of mankind
may be perverted, which leads to degradation,
and even to everlasting damnation. There
always has been and always will be those who
pervert the ways of the Lord. The tares must
grow with the wheat until the harvest.
	"Mormonism," so-called, would have died
a natural, death years ago if it had been the
"fraud" which the world represents it.
	The schemes and threats of men have but
little weight with those who have been made fa-
miliar with them from their earliest remem-
brance, and have become accustomed to the
sound, as we do to the idle winds or the bark-
ing of a few curs. The conflict is between
them and our God, who has never forsaken
His people; but He does not expect us to sit
quietly down and fold our hands in idleness,
while our enemies are publishing their outra-
geous falsehoods to blind the eyes of the weak
or credulous to the most glorious truths of
heaven, and to throw ignominy and dishonor
upon our people, more especially the women
and innocent children, who are as much far-
ther advanced in the ways of God and the or-
der of heaven, as our slanderers are in the
road to perdition, but to use every honorable
means to defend ourselves against their vile
attacks.
	The following truthful description of the
Prophet Joseph and his brother, Hyrum, I
think very appropriate at the present time, and
it is quite a treat to read the sentiments of un-
biased and liberal-minded men, who could
afford to give due credit even to "Mormons."
It was written to James Gordon Bennett by a
correspondent of the New York Herald, who
was stopping in the city of the Saints, which
he designated as the "nucleus of a Western
Empire:
	"Joseph Smith, the President of the Church,
Prophet, Seer and Revelator, is thirty-six years
of age, six feet, high in pumps, weighing two
hundred and twelve pounds. He is a man of
the highest order of talent and great indepen-
dence of character—firm in integrity, and de-
voted to his religion; in fact, he is a per-se, as
President Tyler would say. As a public


[Column 1]
speaker he is bold, powerful and convincing,
possessing both the suaviter in modo and the
fortiter in re; as a leader, wise and prudent, yet
fearless as a military commander; brave and
determined as a citizen, worthy, affable and
kind; bland in his manners, and of noble bear-
ing. His amiable lady, too, the electa cyria, is
a woman of superior intellect and exemplary
piety—in every respect suited to her situation
in society, as the wife of one of the most ac-
complished and powerful chiefs of the age.
	"Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch of the Church
and brother of Joseph, is forty-two years of
age, five feet, eleven and a half inches high,
weighing one hundred and ninety-three pounds.
He, too, is a Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and
is one of the most pious and devout Christians
in the world. He is a man of great wisdom
and superior excellence, possessing great en-
ergy of character and originality of thought."
	The following interesting extracts are taken
from a letter addressed to the Editor of the
New York Herald by an officer of the U. S.
Artillery, dated City of Nauvoo, Ill., May 8,
1842:
	"Yesterday was a great day with the 'Mor-
mons.' Their legion, to the number of two
thousand men, was paraded by Gen. Smith,
Bennett and others, and certainly made a very-
noble and imposing appearance. The evolu-
tions of the troops would do honor to any body
of armed militia in any of the States, and
approximates very closely to the regular
forces.	*	*	*	Before many years this le-
gion will be twenty, and perhaps fifty thousand
strong, and still augmenting. A fearful host,
filled with religious enthusiasm, and led on by
ambitious and talented officers, what may not
be effected by them? Perhaps the subversion
of the Constitution of the United States; and
if this should be considered too great a task,
foreign conquests will most certainly follow.
Mexico will fall into their hands, even if Texas
should first take it.
	"These 'Mormons' are accumulating like a
snowball rolling down an inclined plane, which
in the end becomes an avalanche. They are
enrolling among their officers some of the first
talent in the country.	*	*	Only a part of
their officers, regents and professors, however,
are 'Mormons,' but they are all united by a
common interest and will act together on main
points to a man. Those who are not 'Mor-
mons' when they come here, very soon become
so.	*	*	*
	"The Smiths are not without talent, and are
said to be as brave as lions. Joseph, the chief,
is a noble-looking fellow, a Mahomet every
inch of him. The postmaster, Sidney Rigdon,
is a lawyer, philosopher and Saint. Their
other Generals are also men of talent, and
some of them men of learning. I have no
doubt that they are all brave, as they are most
unquestionably ambitious, and the tendency of
their religious creed is to annihilate all other
sects; you may therefore see that the time will
come when this gathering host of religious fa-
natics will make this country shake to the
centre. A western empire is certain. Eccle-
siastical history presents no parallel to this
people, inasmuch as they are establishing their
religion on a learned footing. All the sciences
are taught, and to be taught in the college with
Latin, Greek, Hebrew, French, Italian, Span-
ish, etc., etc. The mathematical sciences, pure
and mixed, are now in successful operation,
under an extremely able professor of the name
of Pratt (Prof. Orson Pratt); and a graduate
of Trinity College, Dublin, is President of
their University.
	"Now, sir, what do you think of Joseph, the
modern Mahomet?	*	*	Who will say that
the 'Mormon' Prophet is not among the great
spirits of the age?"
	The following, dated June 17, 1842, is also
from the N. Y. Herald, and is headed: "Won-

[Column 2]
derful Progress of Joe Smith, the Modern Ma-
homet.—Spread of the Mormon Faith, and a
New Religious Revolution at Hand."
	"By the mails last evening we received a va-
riety of letters and papers from Nauvoo, the
capital of the new religious revolutionary em-
pire, established by Joe Smith; and also from
other towns of Illinois, exhibiting the extraor-
dinary progress of this most extraordinary
people, who call themselves the 'Latter-day
Saints.' These letters and papers are as fol-
lows: First, a letter from a United States ar-
tillery officer traveling through Nauvoo, who
gives an original glimpse of the Mormon move-
ment there. Second, an extract from the San-
gamo Journal of the 3d of June—a newspaper
in favor of the Whig party, and opposed to
the Mormons on account of their locofoco ten-
dency, requiring a review of their military or-
ganization. Third, a law of the Mormon city
of Nauvoo, extending toleration towards all
religions; even Mahometan, and assuming
power to legislate for all with imperial noncha-
lance. Fourth, a public meeting of Mormons
in Nauvoo, developing their sentiments and
position in the elections in Illinois. Fifth, a
letter to Mrs. Emma Smith, the wife of the
Prophet, from a lady in Edwardsville, exhibit-
ing the singular mixture of piety, politics, tact
and shrewdness of those who believe in Mor-
monism. All these letters and documents dis-
close a most extraordinary movement in hu-
man affairs. What they mean we can hardly
tell, but is it not time for some great religious
revolution, as radical as Luther's to take place
in the Christian world?
	"In the early ages of antiquity, before the
dates of the monuments of Egypt, we have
distinguished names handed down to us by
tradition—Brama, Vishnu, Confucius, Zoroas-
ter, Isis, Osiris, including Adam, Seth, Noah,
Abraham, were the master spirits of great an-
tiquity throughout the ancient world. In later
times, Moses and the Prophets, Peter and Paul
and the Apostles of Christ, and even Mahomet,
who acknowledged the truth of Christianity.
Each of these movements was a religions revo-
lution, but that which followed the time of
Adam, Seth, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Christ
and the Apostles, has developed the only true
system of morals, of belief, of revelation, of
prophecy, of man, of God, of eternity. When
the Christian Church was overwhelmed with
follies and superstitions of Rome, and the
thousand quarreling sects of monks and idlers,
a fresh spirit arose in the world—a spark came
down from heaven—Luther lifted up his voice,
and a religious revolution started at his word,
and renovated Christianity. But a new age
has come, a fresh infusion of faith is required,
a strong impulse is rendered necessary.
	"May not this wonderful Mormon movement
be the signal for a new religious revolution? Is
not Joe Smith its master spirit, and General
Bennett its military spirit? The vast progress
of the last century in art and science, through
steam and type, has changed the nature of
man and society. Is it not necessary that a
new religion and a new faith should come
down from heaven, to carry out the destiny of
the race under its present condition?
	"It is very evident that the Mormons exhibit
a remarkable degree of tact, skill, shrewdness,
energy and enthusiasm. The particular fea-
tures of their faith are nothing against their
success. Do they believe their new bible, their
virgin revelation, their singular creed? If they
do so with enthusiasm and practice their
shrewd precepts, the other sects will fall before
them. This is certain—this is human nature.
In Illinois they have already shown how to
acquire power and influence, by holding the
balance of power between both the great par-
ties. They can already dictate to the State of
Illinois, and if they pursue the same policy in
other States, will they not soon dictate to Con

[Column 3]
gress and decide the presidency? In all matters
of public concernment they act as one man,
with one soul, one mind and one purpose.
	"Their religious and moral principles bind
them together firmly. They may be, and have
been abused and calumniated—partly true,
partly false—but whether true or false, these
attacks only increase their popularity and in-
fluence. Unlike all other Christian sects, they
adopt at once all the modern improvements of
society, in art and literature; and from their
singular religious faith give the highest enthu-
siasm to the movement at large. There is
nothing odd, or singular, or absurd about
them.
	"Verily, verily, we are truly living in the
'latter days,' and we should not be surprised to
see that the Mormon religion is the real Mil-
lennium already commenced. One thing is
certain—the Mormons are so constituted that
in these temperance times they will swallow up
all the other lukewarm Protestant sects, and
the moral and religious world will be divided
between the Pope and the Catholics on one
side and Joe Smith and the Mormons on the
other. The oyster is opening and soon will be
equally divided."
	The writers of the above, though rather ex-
travagant in some of their ideas, spoke more
truths than we have been accustomed to hear
for a long time, and many more than the oppo-
nents of "Mormonism" would be willing to ad-
mit, though they oftentimes do so unwittingly.
	We are entirely too clannish to suit the
agents of his Satanic majesty, who knows as well
as we that "union is strength" and power, and
that his craft is in danger; he therefore abhors
it. But as the religion of Jesus Christ, whose
ways are pleasantness, whose paths are peace,
whose end is perfect joy," teaches us to become
one, and as we choose to obey the Almighty,
who, I would ask, among His groveling sub-
jects, should claim the right of saying, "Why
do ye so?" This is the last religious revolu-
tion, and our faith and enthusiasm have been
equal to every emergency. In all that we un-
dertake we are in earnest, because we know
that we are fighting under the bright and glo-
rious banner of Truth, and though the lot of
man is trouble, and we are looking and pre-
paring for it, and for the time when the whole
world will unite to fight against this work, we
have nothing to fear, for truth, though crushed
to earth, will rise again.
	If those not of our faith, who visit our cities,
came with a determination to lay aside their
prejudices, to learn the facts concerning us, or
our religion, nothing would give more pleasure
than to tell it them; but too many who have
come here, after being treated with every po-
liteness and escorted to seats in our Tabernacle
which are reserved for the stranger, sit there,
under the very altar of the Lord's Supper, in
the hearing of Saints who assemble to worship
God, and spit out their venom, or make ridi-
cule of every thing that we hold sacred.
	But the most despicable characters are the
overly righteous souls, who are filled with such
holy horror at the mention of "Mormon" po-
lygamy, and are the ones whom we look upon
with suspicion, and set them down as among
the most corrupt of hypocrites. It is through
their paintings and misrepresentations that
those at a distance join in the cry ofthe hunt-
ers and hounds, for no other reason only be-
cause they see others do it. Many who are
among us (for self-interest or jealousy) keep up
the hue and cry about the dreaded "Mormons"
who are spreading over these Territories, etc.,
till their ignorant dupes might easily suppose
that this people, who sought refuge in the
Rocky Mountains, were preparing to swallow
them up at one mouthful; and more than likely
take in the whole planet.
	If everybody had been as much concerned
and interested in their own affairs, and attended


as strictly to them, as have their far off peace-
able neighbors (who believe in and practice
the principle of "minding their own business")
they might possibly have kept their own gar-
dens from being overrun with those rank weeds
and briars, the thorns of which will yet tear
and pierce their tender flesh till they are re-
minded of the innocent blood which they have
caused to be shed, and of the tears of the
widow and the fatherless and the oppressed ex-
iles, who patiently endured long years of pov-
erty and suffering, brought upon us in conse-
quence of their cruel and wicked falsehoods.
It would be well for them if they would stop
and reflect a little, and instead of shutting
their eyes and ears listen to the voice of truth,
and let common sense and reason govern them
instead of that "green-eyed monster," that fills
their mouths with lying words, and "Slander,
the foulest whelp of sin." It was this that
caused Cain to slay his righteous brother, Abel
and the Jews to hate and crucify the Savior,
and to kill the Apostles and Prophets, because
they would not forsake their religion; and as
they have severely felt the result of it, so is
this nation now feeling the scourging hand of
the Almighty.

To be continued.


98	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 99


ERE COMES THE NIGHT.

What though so difficult is life at best?
What though so longingly we sigh for rest?
Yet must we patiently keep doing, lest
Lost is one moment of the precious light?
Upon our right and left, Death's shadows fall,
Shrouding the high and low, the great and small;
"Work while 'tis day," e'en thus their voices call,
				Ere comes the night.

The day is nearly spent, low sinks the sun;
Our friends are all departing, one by one;
Almost, we wish our needful task was done—
That we might enter yon Elysium bright;
But oh! my soul, be not the least deceived—
Mortals must work, though weary and aggrieved,
For here a victory must be achieved,
					Ere comes the night.

Oh, life! so brief, fraught with results so grand,
Nor morn, nor evening, should we stay our hand;
The living claim our help, the dead demand
Remembrance, too—who died without the light;
Duties of different grades, forever blending—
Labors of love, our human strength transcending;
Yet must these tasks be done, that seem unending,
				Ere comes the night.

Willing the spirit, but the flesh is frail;
Unnumbered ills our best resolves assail;
We fear, lest at the last our strength should fail—
Ere to eternal bliss we earn the right,
Lest, sore discouraged, sinking in dismay,
Losing the light of Faith's celestial ray,
We even might become a castaway—
				Ere comes the night.

Oh, Thou, Who knowest whose desire is pure,
Oh, Thou, "Whose mercy dost for aye endure,"
Help us to everlasting lives secure,
Before this fleeting life shall vanish quite.
So much, so much 'tis needful he should do,
Deign to assist us, and our strength renew;
Without Thine aid we never can get through
				Ere comes the night.

But oh! the tranquil rest, so sweet and sound,
Of the worn body, in the quiet ground,
In blest oblivion, till "The Trumpet's sound"
Quickens the dust, by God's supremest might.
And oh! the full expansion of the spirit.
When this frail dwelling " 'twill no more inherit;
Ah! but our future bliss we NOW must merit,
				Ere comes the night.

				EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City.


A VERY impressive funeral service in mem-
ory of President Garfield has been held in
Berlin.


[Column 1]
A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

CONTINUED.

	In the preceding chapter of the history of
Sister Zina an error was made in the name of
her grandmother on the mother's side, which
was Dorcas Dimock instead of Diantha as
stated.
	The Huntington family embraced the Gos-
pel at a very early day in Watertown, N. Y.,
and Zina D., when only fifteen, was baptized
by the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, August 1,
1835, and shortly after went to Kirtland with
her father's family. Sister Zina had many
wonderful spiritual manifestations while very
young. On one occasion, at a fast meeting in
the Kirtland Temple, she heard a whole invisi-
ble choir of angels singing; there seemed to be
myriads of melodious voices, whose sweet and
tuneful harmony filled the spacious building.
She was also in the same Temple at the mem-
orable Pentecost, when the Spirit of God filled
the house like a mighty rushing wind. Zina
was also one of the members of the Kirtland
Temple choir, of whom there are at present
but a small number living.
	The Huntingtons removed with the Saints
from Kirtland to Far West, Mo., Zina accom-
panying them. In Missouri she, in common
with others, experienced many very severe
trials and encountered great hardships, through
the persecution brought against the people of
God. Although only a young girl, she had
great faith, and her integrity to the Gospel was
as unflinching then as now. On the 18th of
April, 1839, the Huntington family, including
Zina D., left Far West for Illinois, arriving at
Quincy on the 25th inst., and reaching Com-
merce, afterwards called Nauvoo, on the 25th
of May.
	The Saints were very poor, and many of
them were suffering from fever and ague, and
other diseases brought on by privation and
hardship; they had been driven from their
homes in Missouri, without any preparation for
journeying, and had suffered beyond the power
of pen to portray. Mrs. Huntington, Zina D's
mother, was taken with a congestive chill, on
the 24th of June, and afterwards one after the
other of the family succumbed to disease con-
sequent upon fatigue and privation, until there
was only a boy twelve years old to give them
even a drink of cold water. During this time
of affliction the Prophet Joseph, with his char-
acteristic sympathy for all suffering, showed
them great kindness, doing all in his power to
comfort them, and at one time made them tea
with his own hands. Early in the morning of
the 8th of July, 1839, Sister Huntington's
spirit took its flight, without even a groan or a
quiver of the lip. There were only two of the
family able to follow her remains to their last
resting place on earth. Zina says: "Thus died
my martyred mother! The Prophet Joseph
often said that the Saints who died in the per-
secutions were as much martyrs of the Church,
as was the Apostle David Patten, who was
killed in the defense of the Saints, or those
who were martyred at Haun's Mill. And my
beloved mother was one of the many bright
martyrs of the Church in those dark and ter-
rible days of persecution."
	Sister Zina was married in Nauvoo, and had
two sons born to her, Zebulon and Chariton.
It was a most unhappy and ill-assorted mar-
riage, and she subsequently separated from the
husband who was so little suited to be a com-
panion for her through life. Joseph Smith
taught her the principle of marriage for eter-
nity, and she accepted it as a divine revelation,
and was sealed to the Prophet for time and all
eternity, after the order of the new and ever-
lasting covenant.
	Sister Zina was an active member, although

[Column 2]
quite a young woman, of the first organization
of the Relief Society at Nauvoo, and was
practically interested in the benevolent work
of that institution.
	When the Temple had been so far completed
as to admit of ordinances being performed
therein, Sister Zina did not hesitate to go for-
ward and receive the blessings and endowments
given there to the faithful Saints. She was
united in marriage for time to Brigham Young,
and with the Saints left Nauvoo in the wintry
month of February, and crossed the Mississippi
River on the ice. Many were the hardships of
that eventful period, but Zina was ever true,
full of courage, inspired with faith, and able
to comfort others in the darkest hours of that
weary pilgrimage.

To be continued.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Society
will devote its special effort this winter toward
securing municipal suffrage for woman.

	THE Pennsylvania Railroad Company is
making an effort to abolish the improper use of
the word "depot." The word station is to be
used on its lines henceforth, and even the great
"Union depot" at Pittsbnrg is hereafter to be
known as the "Union station." Richard Grant
White is thus indorsed. The word depot means
a place of storage of goods. Station is the
correct word. Railroads may have their de-
pots for freight, but not for passengers.

	MR. Edgar Bruce, the lessee of the Prince
of Wales Theatre, may congratulate himself
upon being the only manager who has had the
honor of producing a play in the presence of
her Majesty, Queen Victoria, for more than
twenty years. That period has elapsed since
the Queen, in company with one or two of her
children, went to the Adelphia Theatre to see
"Colleen Bawn;" and from that time forth her
Majesty, formerly so ardent a supporter of the
drama, has never been inside a theatre nor an
opera house. The Prince of Wales, however,
deeming it likely that the Queen, whose highland
home is so close to his own, would be induced
to patronize a theatrical entertainment, if given
at Abergeldie, summoned Mr. E. Bruce, who
was at the time performing the "Colonel" at
Edinburgh, and proposed to him to fit up a
stage and bring his company to Abergeldie
Castle. Mr. Bruce, aided by some local talent,
soon turned the huge coach houses of the Cas-
tle into a charming miniature theatre, and on
Tuesday night produced, before a large and
distinguished audience, the comedy which has
been running at the Prince of Wales since
February last. Her Majesty arrived from
Balmoral punctually at nine o'clock, and this
was the signal for the other guests, who had
assembled in the hall at Abergeldie, to pass
into the theatre. Among those present were
Beatrice, Louise, &c. &c. As her Majesty en-
tered the room the band struck up the National
anthem, and the welcome accorded to the royal
party was of a most exceptionally cordial na-
ture. The comedy at once commenced, and
despite the somewhat cramped dimensions of
the stage, and the still more trying ordeal of
such an unusually brilliant audience, the actors
acquitted themselves admirably, and the con-
stant applause and laughter testified to the
satisfaction with which the "Colonel" was re-
ceived at Abergeldie. The curtain fell upon
the last act at half past eleven o'clock, and
her Majesty, who had thoroughly enjoyed the
performance, expressed to Mr. Bruce (who was
presented to her by the Prince of Wales) her
gratification and approval. The Prince after-
wards entertained the company to supper.
Probably now the public may see a little more
of their beloved Queen.


100	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers. 
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 1, 1881.


[Column 1]
A PLEA FOR UTAH.

	Not at any time within our remembrance has
there ever been so much said in newspapers,
and everywhere, publicly and privately, against
the "Mormons," as at the present time; and we
cannot help mentally exclaiming, What does it
all mean? The "Mormons" are considered an
ignorant people, despised by the great enlight-
ened world at large; they occupy only a small
Territory, they have scarcely any voice and no
vote at the Capital! They are looked upon as an
insignificant class. Only a few years ago, they
were driven into the wilderness, exiled from so-
ciety, their homes and the graves of their fa-
thers. What has wrought this wondrous
change? All sorts of suggestions are being made
to Congress, in regard to dealing with the "Mor-
mons!" The advice comes from editors, priests
and peoples. One might suppose that in the mul-
titude of counsel there would be safety, or that
from all these sources there might be sufficient
wisdom drawn to protect the United States from
a handful of people. What are they afraid of?
Do not people come to Utah and do just as they
please? Have people been restricted here in
worshipping God in their own way? Is it not
proof positive of the fact asserted, when their
chapels and churches are erected not only in the
city, but in country towns, wherever it suits the
convenience of the sect or party to go and settle?
There is no place in all the broad land where
American citizens are better protected in every
right and privilege than in Utah. If not, why
do they come here?
	The "Mormons" are the old settlers, they are
the land-holders and land-owners. It was they
who wrested the desert from barrenness. They
made the roads and bridges and dug the ditches
and canals, plowed and planted and built, and
inhabited and established law and order. Why
should they be interfered with in their life, lib-
erties or pursuit of happiness?
	Why not allow them to worship God according
to the dictates of their own consciences? What
possible injury can they do this free and inde-
pendent Republican government, this great and
powerful nation? The Mormons are not popu-
lar, and therefore what influence can they have
that need be feared? They wish simply to be
respected in their rights as loyal citizens of the
Republic, and this is too much for those who are
so determined to oppose them. When the peo-
ple of Utah have elected, by an overwhelming
majority, a delegate to Congress, to protect or
promote the interests of the whole people of the
Territory, in whatever legislation may be
brought forward concerning Utah, those who
cannot possibly be interested in the matter, and
certainly do not comprehend it, are ready to
denounce the measures and vilify the
man whose record is as clear as one can
be made, and to effect this, circulate all the scan-
dal and gossip that goes the rounds of newspa-
pers and newsmongers.

[Column 2]
	So many things are brought up in this regard
that one can scarcely enumerate the long list of
evils, and so much advice given to Congress that
it must be overcrowded. Congress is urged to
put a stop to the numbering of ballots, which is
an absurdity, as everybody must know who goes
to the polls to vote, that the ballot is a secret
one, and although the name must be looked up
on the registration list, yet no clerk of election
can tell by any means, unless informed by the
person voting, which ticket he or she has folded
and dropped into the ballot box. Another piece
of advice given recently is that plural wives
shall not hold property in their own right. How
very noble, generous and high minded! How mag-
nanimous in fact! How very unlike the charity of
the Savior! Are plural wives not entitled to any
consideration before the law? Why not? Are
they not possessed of the same nature and
gifted with the same powers as other women?
In what do they differ? Many of them are the
daughters of the Puritans and inherit the same
undaunted heroism. We are sincerely sorry for
those who so misunderstand and misinterpret
the motives and actions of the Mormon women,
and who are so anxious to bring about legisla-
tion to deprive them of the rights and privileges
accorded them by the laws of the Territory. If
they could only patiently wait and see the re-
sult of carrying out the views which
seem to them to be so aggressive,
and which are so decidedly unpopular
in the nineteenth century. Is not the
marriage question the all-important one in the
history of nations past, present and future? It
is the condition by which the law of human
progression is balanced, both in quantity and
quality, in race and color. It is the actual pow-
er by which is carried out in life, the first com-
mand given to the human family, to multiply
and replenish the earth; which commandment
is still in force. To improve in everything per-
taining to a higher or more exalted life, or char-
acter, all the light and knowledge which can be
produced should be brought forward. Strange
that it never occurred to the great reason-
ers of the age, who are so anxious to reform
and remodel society, that there might
be conditions that required a change in
the marriage relation. If such changes should
be necessary woman must take a practical part
in the innovation and the revolution which
such a state of things is sure to produce.
	If by self-sacrifice, or say by laying aside self-
ishness and becoming endowed with that no-
bility of character, which will grasp the higher
good for the larger number, a few women have
shown themselves equal to the effort? Examine
without prejudice into the principles of this order
of matrimony, and it will be found a remedy
for many evils that now exist in the world, and
are causing sorrow and misery. Not only
actual death, but death to all the finer sensi-
bilities of the soul, virtue, purity of life and the
progression of race. Look at the large cities
even in the new world! See the misery and deg-
radtion which is so fast increasing year by year,
and then reflect if there is not something need-
ed to allay the wicked practices of men, which
is the primal cause, and their victims women.
Is it not worth the grandest effort of the human
soul?
	The "Mormons" sought in coming here and
reclaiming a desolate wilderness, by the grace
of God and under His direction, to found a social
system that should preclude all possibility of con-
ditions such as exist in the world, at the present
time, implicitly believing that the Constitution
gave them this liberty. The majority of them
have been sincere, and the results have been as
satisfactory as could be expected in one genera-
tion, with all the opposing influences brought to

[Column 3]
bear against them from time to time in various
forms and ways. Utah is growing and increas-
ing in population rapidly. The in-
dustry, enterprise, and thrift of
the people cannot be denied. The happiness
and prosperity of the humble homes that exist
throughout the country is something wonderful,
unless one recalls the devotion of the occupants
to God and their religion, which cannot but
bring down the blessing of heaven upon labors
thus directed. Then why not let well enough
alone? There is no people more willing to ac-
cord privileges to all nations than the people of
Utah. None who would more manfully main-
tain the honor of the nation. To them the Con-
stitution is a divine instrument, given by inspi-
ration. There is one right which cannot be de-
nied, even to Mormons, the right to
petition Congress, and although Mormon-
ism may be unpopular, yet men who sit
in the grand councils of the nation, profess to
hold it as a sacred duty, to present a petition
from any citizen of the United States. One of
the greatest men who ever occupied the postition
of Chief Executive of the nation said: "So far
from refusing to present a petition because it
might come from those low in the estimation of
the world, it would be an additional incentive,
if such incentive were wanting."
	But with God on the side of justice, what
should the Latter-day Saints fear? Nothing.
The great onslaught that is being talked of
against the Mormons exists in the imagination
of those whoare anxious to bring such mea-
sures about, to further their own wicked pur-
poses. It is the same spirit that has prevailed
in other ages of the world, the self-same spirit
that caused the Jews to cry "Cruscify Him!
Crucify Him!"


SISTER'S CONFERENCE AT COALVILLE.

	The Relief Societies of Summit Stake held
their Quarterly Conference at Coalville on Fri-
day, October 28, which we attended by invita-
tion, in company with Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
of this city. Meeting commenced at ten a. m.,
Mrs. Mary Jane Atwood presiding. Minutes of
previous Conference were read, in which were
included the formal resignation of Mrs. Sarah
S. Richards, the former President, who resigned
on account of removing to another part of the
country, and the fact that Mrs. M. J. Atwood
had been formally chosen and unanimously
elected to preside over the Relief Societies in
Summit Co. Also that Mrs. Louisa Roundy
had been chosen to preside over the Primary
Associations of that Stake. Reports were read
from the different branches, and verbal reports
were also given, which were very satisfactory.
Speeches were made by Prest. W. W. Cluff,
Bishops Samuel Atwood, Jared Roundy and
Salmon, and Bro. Beard, also by Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball, Mrs. E. B. Wells and the local sisters. Sis-
ter M. J. Atwood made some excellent remarks
and although she expressed great timidity in re-
gard to presiding, it was not apparent in her
manner, which was dignified and impressive.
The Conference only lasted one day, yet there
was considerable business transacted and many
suggestions made calculated to promote the in-
terests of the organizations represented there.
The Conference adjourned until the last Friday
in March.
	The sisters in Coalville are quietly but indus-
triously working up a very prosperous millinery
and dressmaking business in the interest of the
Relief Society. They have built a house in a
most desirable locality, forty feet long, and width
in proportion, and being on a corner it is well
lighted. In the front there is a very large show
window, which answers nicely to display fancy


goods, of which they keep a good variety. It is
well arranged with screens and curtains for the
various departments of work. Five ladies are
regularly employed there, and we were informed
the establishment is well patronized by people
from Echo and other places in the vicinity.
They keep in the store a fine assortment of ladies'
furnishing goods, for trimmings, etc., which is
quite an advantage.
	Shortly after the house was built the sisters
gave a tea party, and had a very enjoyable time.
The large hall is brilliantly lighted for evening
with handsome chandeliers; and in fact the en-
tire arrangements are suitable and in keeping
with the purpose for which the building was
constructed. We were informed it was all paid
for, and the sisters of Coalville may congratu-
late themselves on having been so successful.
It proves they are women of ability and enter-
prise, from small beginnings to have accom-
plished so much.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 101


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	WORD has been received of the arrival at the
Capitol of Hon. George Q. Cannon, Delegate
from Utah to the 47th Congress.

	BISHOP O. F. Whitney and party, who sailed
from New York Nov. 2, in the S. S. Arizona,
have arrived in Liverpool, having had a very
pleasant and prosperous voyage.

	PRESIDENT Taylor and party are still travel-
ing in the settlements, holding meetings and
making glad the hearts of the people. It ex-
pected they will return about the 5th of the
month.

	AT the Salt Lake Theatre, on Monday eve-
ning, Nov. 5, the Home Dramatic Club will ap-
pear in the play entitled "Our Boarding House."
Mr. Henry Maiben, well known on the Salt Lake
stage in former days, will take a part in the per-
formance.

	ON Sunday morning, Nov. 27, the Primary
Association of the 17th Ward was re-organized
by Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith. Mrs. Julia C.
Howe was elected President, Mrs. Maria Y. Dou-
gall First Counselor, Miss Belle Clayton and Miss
Phebe Tingey also Counselors; Miss Nellie Al-
ford, Secretary; Miss Flossie Alder, Assistant
Secretary, and Master Willie Dougall, Treasurer.
The meeting was addressed by Sisters E. R. S.
and B. W. Smith. The first meeting will be
held on Friday, Dec. 2, at 3 p.m.

	"VOICE from the Mountains," is the title of a
pamphlet of twenty-four pages, by Joel H.
Johnson, published at the "Juvenile Instructor"
office in this city. It contains a brief sketch of
the author's life, and strong testimonies of the
truth of the Gospel, as revealed to Joseph Smith.
Bro. Johnson was born in Grafton, Mass., 1802,
and has been a Mormon half a century; was
with Joseph Smith when the Word of Wisdom
was given him by revelation. The book is one
our young people should read. It is for sale at
the Juvenile Office, price ten cents.

	WE call attention to the advertisement of
"Wild Flowers of Deseret," and suggest to our
readers that it would be suitable for Christmas
Gifts. It is a book no one need be afraid to put
into the hands of their children, and contains a
great variety of poems. The author has strug-
gled very hard to secure its publication, and is
depending upon the sale of it to relieve her from
the embarrassment incurred by publishing
Among other home manufactures, home litera-
ture should not be neglected. We have no hesi-
tation in recommending the book upon its own
merits. It is well worth the price, and more.
Some of the poems are grand, some quaint and

[Column 2]
﻿sublimely touching. When you are purchasing
Christmas Gifts, include "Wild Flowers of Dese-
ret," which may be purchased at this office.

	A SUMPTUOUS dinner was given on Wednes
day, Nov. 23, at 12 m., by the officers of the
Relief Society of the 10th Ward in this city, at
the residence of the President, Mrs. Jane Earl.
All the teachers of the Relief Society of the
ward were invited, also the Bishop and his
Counselors, with their wives. The following
ladies were also present by invitation: Mesdames
Eliza R. Snow Smith, Presendia L. Kimball, M.
Isabella Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith, Elizabeth
Howard, Elmina S. Taylor and Emmeline B.
Wells. After dinner a meeting was held in the
Ward meeting house, which was well attended
by brethren and sisters, Mrs. Jane Earl presid-
ing. A good spirit seemed to prevail, and much
good instruction was given by the sisters men-
tioned above, and many suggestions made calcu-
lated to benefit the Society were they put in
practice. Counselor James Woods made a few
remarks at the close of the meeting, expressing
his appreciation of the work of the different or-
ganizations in which the sisters were so earnestly
and assiduously laboring, and referred to the
order of the Church as set forth by the Apostle
Paul, where, after enumerating the different de-
grees of authority, speaks of the helps; and cer-
tainly he considered these organizations were
essential helps. Sister Eliza explained that
President Joseph Smith stated in Nauvoo that
whenever the Church of Christ was fully organ-
ized upon the earth, the Relief Society existed.


ATTENTION, SECRETARIES!

	The Secretaries of Relief Societies in Salt
Lake Stake are urgently requested to send in
their semi-annual reports by the 5th of March,
as it is impossible for the Stake Secretary to
make a correct report unless she receives the re-
port from each Society in due time.
				M. ISABELLA HORNE, Prest.
				ELIZABETH HOWARD, Sec'y.


IN MEMORIAM.

"She lived a Saint, beloved on earth,
	By friends and kindred dear,
Who knew her well and prized her worth—
	Her memory still revere."
								E. R. S. S.

	Died, in the 15th Ward, S. L. City, Nov. 18,
1881, Mrs. Charlotte W. Griggs. Deceased was
born in Dover, Kent, England, Nov. 4. 1818.
She was baptized in Dover, Dec. 24, 1854, and
came to America in 1856, crossing the ocean in
the ship "Wellfleet," from Liverpool to Boston,
where she landed on the 9th of July. Sister
Griggs, with her family, remained in Boston,
where she formed some pleasant acquaintances
and lasting friendships with other Latter-day
Saints who were temporarily residing there pre-
vious to coming to Utah. She was a woman of
sterling integrity, and one capable of the most
sincere and close confidence in companionship.
	In June, 1861, she left Boston and came to the
frontiers, crossed the plains in Captain Joseph
Horne's company. On the way she met with a
most terrible misfortune, the death of her
mother by accident, being run over with a team.
Mrs. Griggs, who was a widow, and her two
sons arrived in Salt Lake City Sept. 13, 1861.
The same year Charles, her eldest son, died at
the residence of Bishop Hess, at Farmington.
	Sister Griggs was a resident for two years or
more of the Fourteenth Ward, was re-baptized
in that Ward, but removed from there to Fair-
field, in Cedar Valley, where she lived about
two years; subsequently removed back to the
city, where she resided until her demise. She


died at the home of her son, Thomas C. Griggs,
who has but recently returned from a mission to
England.
	Sister Griggs had been for years an efficient
teacher in the Sunday School, where she was
greatly beloved by all. She had been a member
of the Relief Society from its first organization
to the time of her death, having joined the So-
ciety in the 14th Ward at the time it was organ-
ized by Bishop Hoagland. She was zealous in
all good works, was benevolent and kind-hearted
by nature, and delighted in doing good to others.
	She was a firm believer in all the principles
of the everlasting Gospel, and thought no sacri-
fice too great for the Gospel's sake. She sleeps
in peace, and her memory is enshrined forever
in the hearts of those who loved her. Her hopes
of eternal life and a part in the first resurrection
were strong to the last. The funeral was held
at the residence of her son in the 15th Ward.
There was a large number of friends and rela-
tives assembled to pay the last tribute of respect
to the deceased. The singing by the 15th Ward
Choir was heavenly. Counselor D. H. Wells
delivered an interesting and eloquent discourse,
and was followed by Prest. Joseph F. Smith, who
made an earnest appeal to the living to walk in
the ways of eternal life.
								E. B. W.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, in Moroni, Sanpete Co., Utah, Helena
Sorenson, born in Denmark, 20th of January,
1822, and died Sept. 16, 1881, aged 59 years and
seven months. She was the wife of Michael
Sorenson. She was a Teacher for several years
in Moroni Relief Society; has always been ac-
tive and energetic in the performance of every
duty pertaining to the relief of the poor, to the
orphan and the sick. Sister Helena has lived
and died a true Latter-day Saint. She bore her
sufferings with great patience; she frequently
spoke of death, but always with calmness and
resignation to the will of her Father in Heaven.
She was beloved by all that made acquaintance
with her. She has passed away in the glorious
hope of a part in the first resurrection. She has
joined the hosts of friends behind the vail, who
are looking forward to a re-union with those
that remain. She is deeply mourned by her
posterity and her many friends, who knew her
loving disposition.
							JANE BAILEY.

	DIED, at West Porterville, Morgan Co, Nov.
6, 1881, of inflammation of the peritoneum, Cath-
erine Smithurst, aged 61 years and 22 days.
Deceased was born in Rumworth, Lancashire,
England, Oct. 14, 1820; was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Jan. 6, 1850; emigrated with her husband in
1855, but could only proceed as far as New York
for lack of means. While she remained in that
city she entertained many of the Elders who
were on missions, and Prest. Taylor was a fre-
quent visitor at her residence at the time that
he was editor and publisher of the "Mormon."
She emigrated to Utah in 1861. She was a faith-
ful wife and mother unto death, valiant in the
testimony of Jesus, her hopes never flagging
nor her faith wavering in the promises of eter-
nal life. She was the mother of thirteen chil-
dren. She had been for years President of the
Relief Society of this ward, and was energetic
in that capacity and was always willing to re-
spond to every call that was made of her, until
her health failed in 1878, when she was honor-
ably released from that office. She was subse-
quently called to be First Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Primary Association of this ward,
which office she held to the day of her death.


She passed away peacefully, surrounded by her
relatives and friends, and was laid away to await
the resurrection of the just.
  "Millennial Star” please copy.
						JANE BROUGH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿TWENTIETH WARD PRIMARY.

  EDITOR. EXPONENT.--The members of the
Primary Association of the Twentieth Ward
held.their Quarterly Conference at three p. m.
on Wednesday, October 19. Opened by singing
and prayer; after which the programme, con-
sisting of recitations, dialogues, songs and instru-
mental music, was carried out in a very able
manner.
	Remarks were then made by Brothers C. R.
Savage, George Romney, William Salmon, T.
B. Lewis, also Sisters P. L. Kimball and B W.
Smith, each encouraging the children to con-
tinue in the good work they were engaged in.
We are never happy in doing wrong, and there-
fore, if we wish to be loved and admired by all
our friends, we must try to do right.  If we at-
tend these meetings regularly and ponder over
the instructions we receive here from time to
time we will have joy and satisfaction; and
when we grow up to be men and women, we
will never regret the time we have spent here.
Be faithful, and you will attain glory, not only
in this world, but in the world to come.
 One or two of the brethren donated some
candy for the children and some presents for the
officers; these were distributed, and Sister How-
and, with an appropriate address, presented to
Sister Emma Toone, our President, a beautiful
Paisley shawl, in behalf of the members of the
Association, as a token of regard and esteem for
her unceasing labor and devotion to the Primary
cause.  This was followed by a poem written for
the occasion, addressed to our President, com-
posed and recited by Miss Isabelle Salmon.
				CELIA SHARP, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

FILLMORE.

	The Primary Association of Fillmore held
their first Annual meeting August 17, 1881.
The children met at 2 o'clock p. m. Singing,
"Open the door for the Children." Prayer by
Master R. Russel. Singing, "Dare to do
right." The roll was responded to by 154
members with sentiments and proverbs, Min-
utes of the previous Conference and annual
report read and approved, followed by an ad-
dress by Master Bryant Hinckley in behalf of
the Primary Associations. Programme con-
sisted of songs, dialogues and recitations, in-
terspersed with Bible and card questions, which
were promptly answered by the children. The
exercises were all rendered in a creditable
manner, much to the gratification and enjoy-
ment of the parents and friends assembled.
	A pair of beautiful vases were presented to
the President and Counselors by the children,
with love and appreciation.
	President Hinckley and others addressed
the children, commending them for the good
order, the interest manifested and the advance-
ment made; also gave them good counsel.
	Meeting was adjourned until August, 1882.
Sang, "We are a band of volunteers.." Prayer
by Master Frank Merrill. After the close of
the meeting, the President and assistants passed
candy, cakes and nuts to the children. A
dancing party was given in the evening, which
passed of pleasantly, making a day of rejoic-
ing for the little participants.
							G. HANSEN.

[Column 2]
CHARLESTON.

	Our Primary Associations here in Charles-
ton are in a prosperous condition; we have two
Associations here, owing to our scattered con-
dition as a Ward. We gave the children the
privilege of having a Fair, to encourage them
and to bring forth some of their talent; it took
place on the 3d of November, and was ably
conducted by the President and her Counselors.
A few brethren were present and did all in
their power to encourage the sisters and the
little folks.
	Opened with singing by the children, Joseph
Smith's first prayer." Prayer by our respected
Bishop, N. C. Murdock. Singing by the chil-
dren. Brief addresses were made by the presi-
dents of the Associations and by a few of the
brethren, which were all timely and good.
	The articles on exhibition were too numer-
ous to mention; suffice it to say we had from a
full rigged ship to a baby's slipper, all home-
made, the production of the youth of this place,
also fancy cakes and loaves, made by the little
girls, which, after exhibition, were readily sold
for from fifty cents to one dollar each. Prizes
will be distributed to the children according to
merit. I might say that it will be quite a
task for the judges, as everything was far be-
yond expectation.
	We must not omit to give due credit to
Brothers Richmond and Price for the great
pains they had taken in decorating the school-
room.
	As this is the first thing of the kind that has
taken place in Wasatch County, we thought it
would be well to have it published in the EX-
PONENT, in hopes it may encourage others to
go and do likewise.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor.
					SARAH J. PRICE, Sec'y.

SPRINGVILLE.

	Special meeting of Relief Society at Spring-
ville, Nov. 14, 1881, as Sisters E. R. S. Smith
and L. Felt favored us with a visit. Mrs. Ann
D. Bringhurst presiding. After the usual ex-
ercises Sister E. R. S. Smith introduced Sister
Margaret T. Smoot, who, in addressing us, said
this is a time that we sbould be faithful, and
cease onr light-mindedness. Felt thankful
that she was a handmaid of God, thought it a
high and holy calling. Reminded us of the
Relief Society Conference of Utah Stake, to
be held the 2d of December.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith addressed the sisters,
saying: We have our duties to perform, and it
may cost as much to save us as our brethren.
The work of God is a progressive work; we
understand our duties to-day better than we
did a number of years ago. We can make
professions or not, just as we choose; we can
become joint heirs with Jesus Christ, or gather
the riches of this world around us and die and
be forgotten. We are required to keep the
commandments of God. If you are taking
care of your families with an eye single to the
glory of God, you are doing as much good as
an Elder abroad. If I could arouse one sister
that neglects her duty, to faithfulness, I should
be amply paid for coming. Keep your eyes
fixed upon heavenly things. The Relief So-
ciety was organized as a self-governing institu-
tion, to root out evil; if we were never a clog
in the wheel, would not this help our brethren?
Prest. Young said, "were I to live my life over
again, I would have mothers pay tithing." In
Goshen the Primary children pay tithing; this
helps to turn their hearts to God. I organized
the first Young Ladies' Association that was
organized in Utah; mothers, I want you to
take a deeper interest in the young ladies' and
gentlemen's meetings. A gentleman once
asked a noted lady what they should do for
France; she said, "Educate the daughters of
France!" I would say, educate the daughters

[Column 3]
of Zion, who are to be the mothers of future
generations. We should make some progress
every day. If you beautify your hearts, will
that help me? we must do these things for
ourselves. I want to secure to myself those
family ties which are eternal. What is life
without husband, children and home? If I do
not attain to Celestial glory it wtll be my own
fault; if I secure this, it will be everything to
me. God is the first and last thing I strive to
think of. Do you impress upon your children's
minds what they are baptized for when they
are eight years old? Send them to Primary
meetings; arrange your housework so it shall
not interfere with their meetings. Should it
take all our time to feed and clothe our bodies?
No! let our spirits always take the lead of our
mortal bodies. Do away with selfishness.
Plural Marriage will help us to overcome this
faster than any other principle. God revealed
this principle for our benefit; if we are ashamed
of one principle of the Gospel, Christ will be
ashamed of us. God bless the honest and
faithful. I want to accomplish all the good I
can in this life, overcome evil and gain a ful-
ness of glory. Amen.
	Sister Felt begged the sisters to let Sister
Eliza's words sink deep into their hearts; seek
the knowledge of God earnestly. Gather
your children around you; tell them your ex-
perience; teach them to honor the principles of
God, polygamy not excepted, so we can come
back into the presence of our Maker.
	Bishop Bringhnrst made appropriate closing
remarks. Spoke briefly to mothers upon edu-
cation, tithing and polygamy; begged mothers
not to rebuke their husbands before their chil-
dren. God preserve you. Amen.
The President endorsed all that had been said.
Primary meeting appointed that evening. Sing-
ing. Prayer by Brother Wm. Kelsey.
			ANN D. BRINGHURST, Pres't.
			SEMIRA L. WOOD, Sec'y.

MILLARD.

	Report of the Seventh Quarterly Conference
of Millard Stake, held at Fillmore, Aug. 18,
1881, B. M. Pratt presiding. Present on the
stand, Prest. I. N. Hinckley and Counselors,
Bishop J. D. Smith, of this city, and Bro.
and Sister Yates, of Scipio. After the usual
opening exercises the minutes of the previous
Conference were read and accepted. Reports
of the different wards were also read, including
the condensed report, which reads as follows:
	Teachers, 75; members, 435; total officers
and members, 537; meetings held, 104; aver-
age attendance, 135. WOMAN'S EXPONENT
taken, 37. On hand at date of last report,
cash, $169.05; property, $2,572.49; wheat,
1,098 bu., 38 lb. Receipts: Cash, $148.17 ½;
property, $134.29; wheat, 68 bu., 11 lb. Dis-
bursements: To the poor, cash, $39.62; prop-
erty, $95.27; Temple, cash, $16; property,
45.65; books, $1.25; building, cash, $37; prop-
erty, $37.73. On hand, cash, $170; property,
$2,734.62; wheat, 1,203 bu., 40 lb.
	The verbal reports were also satisfactory,
showing an increasing interest, both spiritually
and temporally.
	Excellent and appropriate instructions were
given by those who addressed the sisters, espe-
cially by Prest. B. M. Pratt, who is richly en-
dowed with the Spirit of God, impressing upon
them to be energetic in the discharge of their
duties, and reminding them of their responsi-
bilities as mothers, in guiding the minds of
their children, that they do not adhere to infi-
delity and other vices.
	Several of the brethren expressed a pleasure
in listening to the reports and remarks of the
sisters; gave good counsel and instruction.
Adjourned till two P. M. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Bishop J. D. Smith.
	The afternoon session was devoted to the Y
L. M. I. A., Lucinda Brown presiding. Writ-


ten and verbal reports were favorable to their
advancement in the knowledge of the things
of God. Much good advice and exhortations
were given by President Brown and others.
	Conference was adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction by J. V. Robison.
						D. K. OLSEN.

			GOSHEN PRIMARY.
	At a meeting of the Primary Association of 
Goshen, held Saturday, Nov. 12, 1881, Sisters
E. R. S. Smith and Louie Felt were present.
After preliminary exercises, the children's pa-
per, called "The Morning Star," was read by
Miss Price, which contained many excellent
articles. The third chapter of Matthew was
recited by four  little girls, select reading, and then
another song; chapter from Book of Mormon,
committed to memory by Lizzie Higginson;
recitations by a girl and boy. After which
Willie Burrowson, James Burrowson, Willie
Higginson, Charley Price and George Poulson
each made a few excellent remarks. Sister
Snow Smith then addressed the children, and
asked them questions from the book, "Bible
Questions and Answers."
	Sister Louie Felt, Sister Stickney, President
Sarah Roberts and Bishop Price each addressed
the children a few moments. The meeting
closed with singing and prayer.
					LOUIE FELT.

		SPRINGVILLE PRIMARY.
	The several Primary Associations of Spring-
ville held a joint session in the meeting house
in that city Monday evening, Nov. 14, the oc-
casion being the visit of Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith and Sister Louie Felt, who were anxious
to meet with all the children of the different
wards. Sister Louie Felt was chosen to pre-
side. After singing and prayer, Sister Felt
asked various questions, which were promptly
answered by the little folks; and also made a
few opening remarks. A song was sung, enti-
tled "Do right," by Zina Huntington; recita-
tion, "Not so easy," a little boy; recitation,
"Our Father in Heaven," by a number of lit-
tle girls; recitation, "When I'm a man," by a 
company of little boys; recitation, "The or-
pahn's prayer," by a little girl.
	Sister Felt made a short speech upon sub-
jects calculated to inspire the children with
faith and good works. Sister Eliza next ad-
dressed the meeting. In the course of her re-
marks, related in a pleasing way instances
of what the children were doing in the differ-
ent settlements. Spoke of some Associations
where they were saving the money donated, to
help emigrate poor children from other coun-
tries. She asked them some questions and
entreated them to improve their minds and store
them with things pertaining to the Gospel.
Gave, in her most happy manner, a description
of the manner in which Indians conducted
themselves in meeting-of the good order they
observed.
	Bishop Bringhurst exhorted the chiidren to
put in practice the teachings they had heard.
	Brother Kelsey felt glad to see the advancement
the children were making. Many excellent
things were alluded to in the remarks made
and all felt amply repaid for coming together.
Dismissed with singing and prayer.
				MARY T. AVERY, Sec'y.
		GUNNISON PRIMARY FAIR.
	On the 15th of October our Primary held
its first Fair in Gunnison. People who came
to see it were agreeably surprised. There were
but eighty-nine articles exhibited, which how-
ever, were made by fifty-fve children. There
were some beautiful little notions, as well as
handsome, useful articles. A pie, made by a
little girl between four and five years of age;
[Column 2]
a beautiful rug (three weeks work) by a girl
of fourteen; twenty-one skeins of yarn by a
girl thriteen; a set of toy dishes, two marbles
and a miniature grindstone, carved in petrified
white clay and white sandstone, by a boy ten,
who carved it while herding cows in the hills,
where he found the material. One girl seven
years old exhibited two pairs of exellent
stockings for children, one pair mittens, one
pair garters, one necktie and a sample, all
knitted. There were cradle quilts, pillow slips
and lace, tidies, lamp mats, mottoes, wall pock-
ets, match-safes; wool and hair flowers, work
baskets, a tin funnel, beautiful white salt,
honey, a straw hat colored and trimmed, cab-
bage, onions, carrots, bread, cakes and pud-
dings-which latter articles we had reason to
know were very good. Balls of carpet rags
adn quilt blocks were sewed by quite small
girls. And considering that "great things have
small beginnings," we look forward to grand-
times in the future for our Primary.
	The proceeds from the Fair (five cents per
ticket) were used to buy books for the Primary,
such as "Bible Questions and Answers," "Faith
Promoting Series," and "Primary Hymn
Books."
	The children and their mothers, who took
active parts in the Fair, feel that there is  a 
wide field open even in this direction, and
many were the expressions of encouragement
and well deserved praise to the children that
day.
	A few of the articles exhibited were donated
to the Primary Association and sold on the
spot, which was the occasion of some good-
natured competitive bidding, which greatly
pleased and encouraged the industrious little
donors.						H. M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.
To E. B. Wells:
	Dear Sister -The EXPONENT! I have had
the dear little friend in my house so long, that
I cannot afford to part with it now. As Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of this place, I
cannot do without it; it is a source of benefit
and comfort to me.
	There are fifteen families of Latter-day
Saints residing in this place at present. About
one year ago our town site was selected and
named Erastus, in honor of Apostle E. Snow;
in a short time after he paid us a visit, and
was much pleased with our location, and also
the name.
	Brother C. G. Curtis, in digging a ditch near
some old ruins, found a finger ring, which
proved to be silver, worn perhaps by some
dusky maiden in ages past. There are many
old relics to be found all over this country,
which belonged to a people so far back that
none of the present set of inhabitants can tell
anything about them.
	We have for our Bishop, Sextus Johnson, a
fatherly, good man. We have a Relief Society
and Young Men's Association. About one
month ago our beloved sister, Mrs. Wilmirth
East, Stake President of the R. S., the Pri-
mary President and her Counselors, were here
and organized the Primary Association.
	We have many trials of late; we have had
an Indian scare, but nothing serious to us or
the surrounding settlements of the Saints. We
feel to rejoice that we have been preserved.
While we obey the commands of God we can
claim His blessing.
	Ever praying for my dear sisters and the
welfare of Zion, I subscribe myself a laborer
in the great cause of truth.
				MATILDA P. KILLIAN.


HERR J. von Schoeffer has been appointed
Austrian minister to the United States.


TRUTH vs. FICTION

TO THE AUTHOR OF "LIGHT READING," IN WO-
	MAN'S EXPONENT FOR OCTOBER 15, 1881.

	Dear Friend:-You have endeavored, in
your article named above, "to prove that novel-
reading is a study of art." I doubt not that
you have succeeded to the satisfaction and also
to the injury of many young, romantic minds,
in proving that novel-reading and novel-writing
is a noble pursuit: Allow me, in all sincerity
and soberness, to offer my frank opinion upon
the subject, which is that such satisfaction
as may be gained from such sources is false,
and consequently must be injurious. If we
speak, shall we not speak truthfully? And
how much more necessity is there, if we write,
that we write the truth, since characters, even
on paper, may be preserved for ages, and we
know not by whom they may be read.
	I am not an inexperienced person in regard
to the subject in question. I have read more
novels than scores of people who are much
wiser than myself, and I know just what it is
to follow the novelist among all the beautiful
as well as thorny paths which he searches out
for his followers to tread upon and scramble
through, watching his beloved heroes and hero-
ines with all the absorbing interest and anxiety
of a faithful sponsor or guardian. And more.
I know what it is to feel that I too have been
gifted with the divine, immortal power that
will enable me to interest others as I have been
interested; to call forth the tenderest sympa-
thies and work upon the finest senses of the
human soul!
	More than once or twice have I made "burnt
sacrifices" of rolls of manuscript, containing
glorious characters and splendid plots, because
-acutated by the sixth sense, to which those
who strive to be Saints are entitled, namely,
the Spirit of God- I could but see that with
all their glory and with all their splendor, they
were false. Yes, false, so far as I knew; for
although I had described them as though I
had known them to be true, I had never known
any such thing.
	The admonition of the good spirit comes in
different ways at different times. I had once
happily produced a portion of what was to be
a very find drama. Opening my first Book of Mor-
mon, I read a portion of the first book of Ne-
phi, in which these words occur: "And the
large and spacious building which they father
saw, is vain imaginations and the pride of the
children of men." I had read the words be-
fore, but had never comprehended their mean-
ing as I did then. "Vain imaginations! The
Spirit told me that pondering over and conjur-
ing up objects and subjects and circumstances
that never were and never will be, and pre-
tending to give them reality, was vain imagina-
tion. Can you find any plainer interpretation 
of the term?
	You say "the novelist is a creator." He
makes his own worlds, and peoples them," &c.
But alas! they are like the Sectarian God,
"without body, parts or passions," and has no
existence anywhere. So after all, what a worth-
less creation! "The Blacksmith's Dream,"
which was on exhibition here a year or two
ago, is of more consequence than such a world;
for that does consist of something that can be
seen, heard and handled.
	You say that "by means of novels many
widespread abuses have been corrected in na-
tions; but you do not state that many more
evils have been more widely spread by the same
means, in the shape of wasted time and talents,
mistaken aims and dissipated lives. We might
say that thousands of valuable lives have been
saved by the judicious use of excellent brandy;
and make no allowance for the millions of
lives which are wrecked and lost by the inju-
dicious use of similar articles. But would that


justify any teacher or leader in placing the
tempting cup to the lips of youth and declaring
it noble and sublime? No! Nor would it
justify any Latter-day Saint in giving his time
and attention to the production of spirituous
liquors, no matter how great his abilities for
producing excellent articles might be. There
is better employment, nobler aims for the Latter-
day Saints than the production, study, or use
of novels or whiskey.
	Shakespeare, I believe, lived and wrote ac-
cording to the best light he had in his day;
and other great authors may have done the
same. But in our day, let us thank God that
greater light has come into the world, and that
His people are called to a higher calling than
the production or study of fiction. Let us
praise and bless Him that He has given us pre-
cious, tangible, eternal truths to study and re-
flect upon, and to talk and write about.
	I am aware that occasionally a page or a
paragraph of a novel contains some excellent
moral lesson, or embodies some beautiful senti-
ment. But we can always find lessons on the
same subjects, and even more exalted senti-
ments, more briefly and yet more clearly stated
in the written word of God. The best writers
of fiction invariably turn to the Scriptures for
their best and wisest arguments.
	Then is it not wisdom in us to search the
Scriptures for ourselves, and find them in their
own beauty and strength, rather than take an-
other's rendition of them, mixed up with a
great deal of adulterating material? I say it
is. One of the commandments of the Lord to
His Saints is, "Treasure up in your minds con-
tinually the words of life." Surely "the words
of life"—Life Real, Life Eternal, are not to be
found in any man-created work, or in anything
whatever, save in Truth Real, Truth Eternal!
								LULA.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SUFFRAGE LETTERS.

	We gladly re-publish the following letters,
which we selected from among many others of
the same character in the Woman's Journal.
They were addressed to Lucy Stone, President
of the American Woman Suffrage Association.
These letters are from two distinguished Ameri-
can writers—men well versed in all the impor-
tant questions of the age, and speak hopefully
to all interested in the subject of equal suf-
frage.

JOHN G. WHITTIER.

DANBERS, MASS., 10th Mo., 1881.

	MY Dear Friend, Lucy Stone:—I am
glad to learn by thy note that a Suffrage con-
vention is to be held soon in Louisville, Ky.,
and l hope the women of the Southwest will
take a lively interest in it. If any considerable
number of the intelligent women of Ken-
tucky show themselves earnest advocates of
impartial suffrage, there can be no doubt that
the best men of the State will accede to their
wishes. The complete success of the cause is
only a question of time. Every intelligent ob-
server sees this; and there are many indications
that its advocates will not have long to wait
			Thy friend,
						JOHN G. WHITTIER.

WENDELL PHILLIPS.
		BOSTON; October, 18.

	DEAR FRIEND:—I regret much my inabil-
ity to attend your annual meeting, as my whole
heart is in the cause. It seems to me the next
great move in social and civil progress and
civilization. The great causes of education
and temperance are closely allied to it. The
problem here to deal with is the vice of great
cities, and perhaps the possibility of preserving
Republican institutions is wrapped in it. Its


success goes further  to complete our civiliza-
tion than any other reform.
	I hope you will have a gathering earnest and
enthusiastic enough to stir the community pro-
foundly. 		Yours respectfully,
		WENDELL PHILLIPS


THERE was a reduction of $13,321,458 in
the national debt during the month of October.

 THE Eleventh Annual meeting :of the
American' Woman Suffrage Association was
held at Louisyille, Ky., the 25th and 26th
inst.
	The Woman’s Congress held its ninth ses-
sion in Buffalo in October. It was presided
over by Julia Ward Howe, and continued its
sessions three days.
	The Annual Convention of the Woman’s
National Christian Temperance Union, recently
held in Washington, Miss Anthony writes,
voted solidly forequal suffrage for woman, as
a means of fighting their prohibition battle.
	The damage to property occasioned by the
recent overflow of the Mississippi River will 
amount t6 nearly $3,000,000. business at
Oshkosh and Fond du Lac. Wis.,was practically
suspended by the flood from Lake Winnebago.


GOOD-NATURE is the best feature in the fin-
est face. Wit may raise admiration, eloquence
lead the mind captive, judgment command re-
spect, knowledge attention, beauty inflame the
heart with love, but good-nature has a more
powerful effect. It adds a thousand attractions
to the charms of beauty and gives an air of
beneficence to the homeliest countenance.


[Column 1]
"WILD FLOWERS of DESERET."

BY AGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.

A BOOK OF POEMS OF 240 PAGES. SUBJECTS: RE-
ligious, Sentimental, Humerous, Domestic, Historical,
Quaint and Pathetic. Leather, $1.50; Cloth, $1.25.
Postage free. Address: Mrs. A. J. Crocheron, Box 419, Salt
Lake City. Send Money by P. O. Order or Registered Letter.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD
DENTIST.
[image of dentures
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541.

JUST ISSUED
By J. H. HEMAN,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
[image of a bible on a pillow]
BIBLE ALMANAC
FOR
1882.
(Second Year.)
15 cts. per copy.
	A liberal discount will be allowed to Canvas-
sers.
	A few copies of last year's Almanac for sale
at the same price.

[Column 2]
NOTICE.
HAVING PROCURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE
cimens, etc., I am now prepared to give instructions
in the art of Obstetrics and other branches connected there-
with. My class will open Nov. 1st, 1881. Those wishing to
join this class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send east for books. Terms: Tuition, [-]0
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
					E. R. SHIPP, M. D., Salt Lake City.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z. C. M. I.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe i n the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.
Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER'S:COMMISSION STORE.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
