VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1882.	No. 22.


A CODICIL.

To only those it may concern,
	A few brief words I have to say;
Entwine no flowers around my Urn,
	Let no cold eyes behold my clay.

When death has sealed my pulses up,
	And bid my heart to cease its thrill,
When I have drained life's mingled cup,
	And eyes, and heart and brain are still,
Then, may some dear and treasured hand,
	Enfold me in my Temple robe—
And 'tis my wish, nay more—command
	That none death's secrets seek to probe!

I want no one to gaze on me
	With curious, apathetic eyes—
But those who loved me, they may be
	Admitted with their fond good byes!

These ever are, the few, to all
	Their tears are "holy water"—pure,
And from a sacred fountain fall,
	And these, my heart will ne'er abjure.

Within the presence of the dead
	Be still—tho' I shall not be there!
My spirit gladly will have fled,
	To Mansions—Oh! so bright and fair.

I wish my Cenotaph to be
	Within the hearts of those I love,
I ask that they will shed for me
	A few sweet tears, their love to prove.

I ask thro' their remaining days
	They will at times, remember me;
Their love so sweet, is more that "Bays,"
	To bind my brow—could ever be!

Of all I've written, said, or thought,
	There's little I would fain recall—
The feeling that has ever wrought,
	Within my soul was love to all!

'Tis true the ever mystic "three"
	Within my heart have borne their sway,
Dear—dearer—dearest—all to me
	Have shed their warmth thro' life's brief day.

I'm thankful for the boon of life,
	For good its darkest days have been—
Its sunny ones, with beauty rife,
	Have shed o'er all their glorious sheen.

There's nothing more I here will say
	My dearest ones! remember me!
And heed these words—nay more obey
	And see that they fulfilled shall be.

	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, April 1882,


TRUE CHARITY.

	Do not we read in holy writ that the Lord
is angry with none, excepting those who do
not acknowledge his hand in all things? This
may be done in many things, and we fre-
quently find it takes a little time patience and
experience to learn how to apply the rule to
ourselves. And now since we have confidence
that this is the word of the Lord, the question
arises how shall we acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in the Edmund's bill? When the
news came that the Edmund's bill was to be-
come a law, my first impressions were directed
to the passage we find written in Revelations
chapter 30, verse 19th. "As many as I love
I rebuke and chasten, be zealous therefore and
repent." I think these measures when put in
practice will arouse our zeal, and when we pre-
sent ourselves to our Father in heaven in
humility, He will bless and comfort all those


who trust in Him. Then we will acknowledge
his hand in this, as well as everything which
has transpired towards building up his king-
dom upon the earth. I well remember in my
youth when repeating my Sabbath School
lesson, how surprised I was, that the Lord
should ask us to love our neighbors as our-
selves, which was almost impossible; and again
the Savior said you must "love your enemies
bless them that curse you and pray for those
who persecute you, bless and curse not.;' I
could not help asking how He could require
such obedience as this; when He who created
us knew that with our dispositions and tem-
peraments this could never be accomplished.
It is impossible in our own strength to do this.
	But now I feel thankful that I have lived to
see the day when I have learned what the
gift of the Holy Ghost will do to educate
the human heart. When under that influence,
you will love all the creations of God our
Father, you will give every thing its proper
value, and also its proper place, you will have
fervent charity, even that which the Apostle
Paul spoke of, when he said, "though I give
all my goods to feed the poor and my body to
be burned, and have not charity it profiteth me
nothing." You will not hate your enemies but
pity their blindness. For they believe in the
Savior of the world, and yet will fight against
those principles which He has designed them
to obey, that they may be qualified to come in-
to his presence, and also bring a reign of peace
upon the earth; and do they object to this? Do
they prefer war and strife? It often looks
like this. I am satisfied they are as blind as
the Jews were when the Savior made his first
appearance upon the earth. I would most
earnestly pray that the scales may drop from
their eyes, as did St. Paul's, when Ananias
prayed for him. This will be the case too I
feel assured to say, of all those who are as
truly anxious as St. Paul was, to do the will
of God, our Father, and their Father too; for
we are all the children of one Father. Such
persons will rejoice in the light of the Gospel
for it is the true light, (as St. John says) which
lighteth every man which cometh into the
world. But on the contrary the light of the
world dazzles and blinds, and they also wish
to dazzle others. This seems to be their great
object.			MARY ELLEN KIMBALL.


[Column 1]
	OPINIONS OF A GENTILE LADY.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT:—To the Mor-
mon women, all who have so kindly and po-
litely replied to me, I send greeting and good
will. I will not attempt to name them, fearing
one name might be overlooked and the person
seemingly slighted. Believing them all to be
trrithful, pure-hearted, intelligent, Christian
women, I accept their affirmations as to their
contentment, in the life they have chosen, or
accepted. The Mormon question is a very in-
teresting one to me, and when the Mormons say,
as one or two did in replying to me, that, “We
mind our own buisness, and only wish to be let
alone.” I hope they do not mean to say to me,
“Mrs. Scott please to mind your own business,
and ask no more questions.” I consider it the
business of every intelligent, rightminded wo-
man to ask questions about the Mormons and
every thing else, in this day of licentious-

[Column 2]
ness and corruption. A woman is to be des-
pised, who calmly sits down, folds her hands,
shuts her eyes and closes her ears to everything
beyond her own home circle. She can do
so, if she has no sons or daughters to go forth
into the world. But she dare not, if she reads
the daily papers and has a child growing up to
manhood or womanhood.
	I honestly own to you that I do not believe
in Mormonism but neither do I believe the half
of what is said against it; and wish sometimes
that I could “mind my own business and not
concern myself at all about it.” But am a sort
of restless bumble-bee, and reading so much in
the newspapers against it, stirs me up until I
want to stir up somebody else.
	I went to hear Ann Eliza lecture; my soul-
full of enthusiastic indignation against the
terrible set of people of whom I had read, and
from whom she had escaped. I heard her de-
liver the same lecture twice, and thought, as I
listened to her, “well, if I had escaped from
something so terrible as the papers say Mor-
monism is, I would not get up and speak a
piece, written and revised by Gentile friends.
I would tell something! I would stamp my
foot, and shake my fists at the audience, and
impress them with a sense of the terrible doings
of the wicked, depraved people from whom I
had escaped. Why two thirds of the women
in her audience could have told a sadder tale
of domestic misery than she related.
	Her lectures—first caused me to question the
truthfulness of the statements concerning the
wickedness and depravity of the Mormons.
Then I came across the Exponent, and read
in it, only of good works being done; no ac-
counts of murders, suicides or evil doings.  Its
pages were as pure as the heart of a little child;
the poetry in it, true poetry; fragrant with faith
in God, and love toward each other. More and
more I felt convinced that, those Mormons are
not all bad, and I determined to inquire into
the matter to see if these things were so.
	If you have no objections we will drop the
subject of polygamy for the present time, and
talk of other points of your belief. Is every
individual member of your church as full of
faith in God as yourself?
	The implicit religious faith you women seem
to have, will, I fear, never be given me. My
heart is full of unbelief skepticism, or Ingersol-
ism. Yet I sincerely wish to have faith.  But
questionings and bitterness overcome me when
I see the miseries of life, the sufferings of inno-
cent ones and the prosperity of the wicked.
	My very soul abhors the doctrine of future
rewards and punishments as preached.
	What is the belief of the Mormon Church,
and do you all have the same belief on such
matters? Romania B. Pratt says in her letter,
to the EXPONENT, “that you have not made
yourselves well enough known, that there might
be safety in having a few sentinels stationed on
the towers afar off.” So perhaps it would help
both you and me, to talk of the real belief of
those terrible Mormons.
		EMILY SCOTT.


IN the Massachusetts legislature the last
week in March 1882, the House bill to permit
women to practice as attorneys-at-law, and the
House bill for the preservation of the health of
females employed in manufacturing mechanical
and mercantile establishments were ordered to
be engrossed.—Ex.


170	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	HINTS ON MARRIAGE.

	This subject will never grow thread-bare by
frequent discussion, it ever holds a charm es-
pecially for the young. It is well to obtain a
correct understanding of every principle or
subject pertaining to our present and future
happiness, and the one I have chosen to discuss
is so important to our highest interest spirit-
ually, morally and phsyically,that there should
be no guess work about it; in this, only true
knowledge is safety. Ask any boy or girl what
they intend to do when they arrive at maturity,
and their truthful answer, unrestrained by false
teachings, would be, “I intend to marry and
have a home and family.” This natural desire
arises from a spark of the divinity implanted
in every breast and can only be, repressed by
the untiring efforts of that wily destroyer Sat-
an whose strongest forces are arrayed against
the unity and power of the family organization
and the increase of our species, more especially
where these conditions exist, under God’s direct
command and authority. Satan is exceedingly
jealous of power and he has, reigned supreme
for so many centuries that he does not intend
to resign his long usurped power without a long;
and fearful contest. But the love of home and
family is bequeathed to us by our heavenly
Parent, it is our lawful heritage and unless we
are successful in realizing pur rights in this re-
spect the heart can never be satisfied in time or
eternity.
	The dolls, playhouses and mimic attempts
at regulating household affairs in which every
little girl delights are but a representation of 
the ideal life of the wife and mother,whose deep
responsibilities should become a reality, and if 
woman fails to realize these cherished hopes
something is radically wrong. In proportion
as the power of evil increases, a disregard
for the sacred institution of marriage also in-
creases among the youth, and contempt for the
marriage obligations increase among the mar-
ried until this most sacred relationship will be 
overwhelmed by disunion and strife whose work
it is to tear asunder all family ties, leaving
broken bleeding hearts in their train, and only
among the despised Latter-day Saints will the 
true foundation of social harpiness and pros-
perity be found upon the earth; but in order to
realize this state, we must be guided by princi-
ples more perfect than those which have
wrought such dissolution. God has revealed a 
plan for establishing a new order of society
which will elevate and benefit all mankind who
embrace it. The nations that fight against it
are working out their own destruction, for their 
house is built upon the sand and one of the 
corner stones in the doomed structure is already
loosened through their disregard and dishonor
of the institution of marriage.
	The records of divorce have become truly 
alarming in all parts of the civilized world,
there must be a cause for every effect and 
“straw show which way the wind blows." Two
young people who are, or who imagine them-
selves to be truly in love, possessing.
		“Two souls with but a single thought
		Two hearts that beat as one.”
have not the slightest idea of a separation after
the law unites them. But is love all that is 
requisite to life long happiness? (and very few
indeed will acknowledge they marry without it)
Who is it that fill up the long list of divorces,
or, the still longer list of unhappy marriages?
It is those who, in the morning of life, looked
into the future with the fullest hopes resting 
secure in their ardent, and supposed undying
love, but as “Coming events cast their shadows
before,” so may we form a pretty correct opin-
ion of what the future will be, providing we are
guided by reason in connection with love, for,
“To be reasonable is to be happy.”
	Young Americans have conceived some very

[Column 2]
grand notions of freedom, and are liable to go
to extremes and consider lawful restraint, an
infringement upon their rights and such er-
roneous ideas will lead them to ignore the re-
straints and wise counsel which parents are so 
well qualified to administer after long and try-
ing years off experience, shadowed by many
heartaches caused by anxious and loving care 
for their children.
	But the most grievous of all mistakes is that 
of scorning or ridiculing the avise to ask God
for wisdom in this matter of such vital impor-
tance. The judgement of earthly parents
may prove fallible, confidence may rest secure
in Him who is the grand architect of our being,
and knows best, what can satisfy our soul’s
highest anticipations. Never, no never enter
into a marriage contract, however promising
and satisfactory it may appear, without first
seeking by earnest prayer and fasting if need
be a testimony from your Heavenly Father.
His love to the end can see while human love
and wisdom at best, is but short-sighted. Were 
all guided by this rule, would there be any oc-
casion for divorces? Love that is founded on
anything but intrinsic worth will never stand
the test of time and the vicissitudes of every
day life in this uncertain sphere, before which
all the romantic nonsense contained in novels
vanishes like pearly dew drops before the 
scorching sunbeams. Love though ever so 
strong and pure is not self supporting. It
must receivenourishment from other virtues,
prominent among them are chastity, honesty, 
intelligence and kindness; few if any natures 
are imbued with love sufficient to endure all
things purely for love’s sweet sake.
	However devotedly a girl loved a dishonest
man or one addicted to any evil habit, that 
love cannot save her from the natural conse-
quences of such things, but, on the contrary
only tends to intensify her anguish. The
man who is jealous and exacting as a lover,
will probably make a hard master and tyran-
ical husband. If he be shiftless and lazy, you
will, as his wife, have an excellent opportunity
to display your ability to support him and your
family.
	If the lover loafs arounf town, smokes chews
drinks even respectably (?) and swears, and
these things annoy you now, as a wife they will
wring you heart with misery unutterable, while 
your children will despite your good desires and 
influence, inherit traits of character to curse
themselves and others.
	“Be ye not unequally yoked together” religi-
ously for this is a fruitful source of unhappiness.
Accept no less virtue than you bestow, else con-
fidence the basis of all true harmony will be 
lacking. My young sisters, ever keep in mind
the fact that you will live to regret most heart-
ily the union with one who must steal you from
home and parents because he cannot honorably
claim you by reason of unquestioned merit.
	Young men be not satisfied with your sweer
heart’s parlor accomplishments. Were she 
always to remain in the parlor without an in-
terest outside of it mere accomplishments might
answer your purpose. But if it be a true wife,
mother and help-meet you seek, look deep into
the heart of her home-life, there you will find 
the true foundation upon which you are to con-
struct your future home of happiness. In all
things be honest, sincere and faithful and you
will not be compelled to exclaim as thousands
do to-day; “Oh! emptiness! Life what art thou
but a lie! Which I honored and greeted with
hopefulest trust.”
	But life may be devoted to the noble purprse
designed by our loving Creator, and we may at 
last feel satisfied with our labors here and the 
reward awaiting us beyond.
		LILLIE FREEZE.


[Column 1]
	MRS. Julia Ward Howe is said to have
learned Greek after she was fifty years old.—Ex.

[Column 2]
	PRINCESS Louise has consented to be patroness
of the Woman's Emigration Society.—Ex.


﻿EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

	The following paragraph is from the letter of
a Gentile lady who visited for some months in
this city and became well acquainted with
many of the people here.
	“God is moving the people,have to endure: the
attention of the world is being directed to your
valley, and God will use his people for the ac-
complishment of his purposes.  I am ever
thankful that I was accorded the privilege of
seeing President Young and knowing your
people. Ignorance is the cause of the prejudice
and the southern war was the result of ignor-
ance. What the result of all this is to be God
alone can foresee, but I believe all will be well
with your people. I have had many oppor-
tunities and have traveled all over this land,
but in your Valley I fonnd more purity, hap-
piness and industry, than in any other place.
I may visit your home again at some future
time. Give my kindest regards to good noble
Mr. Cannon, what a mockery these proceedings
must be to him, as he has seen for so many sea-
sons the corruption of the men who now sit in
judgment on him. Well, somewhere all will be
explained. I thank you for writing to me, I
will never lose an opportunity of expressing
my convictions in regard to Utah and her peo-
ple. Give my regards to Mrs. Wells, John W.
and Brigham Jr.  And tell any of the people
coming this way to come and see me, remember
me to your daughter and her family and Mrs.
Zina Young and Mrs. Horne, and all who re-
member me.
	March 29, 1882.


PLAIN TRUTHS.

	The more recent official drift at Washington
is ominous. It suggests the query: Is ours,
from the President downward, a government of
statesmen, or of politicians, and these last
not politicians of a high order at that? Abra-
ham Lincoln, Wiliam H. Seward, James A.
Garfield, were in some sense politicians; that
is, they were wedded in their affiliation and pre-
ferences to a party, and believed in such en-
deavors and appliances as are most lawful to
render that party successful. But they did not
overlook the true function of administrative
government as being "by the people and for
the people,"—that such function is best carried
out, and carried out only in harmony with the
original intent of our republican regime, when
the just ends and true interests of all the people
of every section and of all parties and colors are
consulted. This is the only basis on which a
government like ours can durably stand and
prosper in righteousness. No greater misfor-
tune can overtake the community than the ac-
cidental rule of men incapable of rising above
the plane of mere party politicians. Men are
to be deplored who come into the high places
of power with no higher conception of office,
than that in holding it they become dispensers
of place and position. The business of an
official is to perform faithfully the duties of his
office whatever the office is. It is a monstrous
perversion and abuse when it is otherwise.
The spoils system dies hard, but die it must, or
the republic will perish. The existing regime
actually puts a premium upon wickedness so
far as it is used to serve the ends of ambition
and selfishness. That "righteousness which
exalts a nation" dies out in the presence of such
methods at Washington as now seem to flourish.
But the flourishing is commonly short-lived,
just as the psalmist saw was true of the wicked
of his day. Query: Were politicians, such as
now exist and abound, among these?—The
Watchman, Boston Mass.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 171


THE VIOLET'S INTERCESSION.

			Thou lovely flower!
That hold'st with magic spell my longing eyes,
			Plucked in the hour
In which thine evanescent beauty dies;
	Go! tell the love that thrills within my heart,
To her for whom that heart doth wildly yearn.
	Thy beauty, eloquent beyond all art,
Must move her tender soul to some return.

			Lowly thy sphere,
Thou modest emblem of a painless joy;
			Sweet as a tear.
But brief thy life, as pleasant thoughts are coy.
	Yet with the gentle fragrance of thy breath,
Stealing her soul, thou may'st o'ercome her fears
	Then might her pure heart know that, come e'en
		death,
The love I feel will breathe through endless years.

									ST. CROIX.


" THE SONG OF THE RIGHTEOUS IS
A PRAYER UNTO ME".

DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, PAGE 137. N.E.

The Truth has come forth in the last dispensation,
	The Truth which has ever been anarchy's rod;
And its friends, in the midst of a wild, rampant nation,
	Sing praises and honor and glory to God.
We will sing! we must sing! though the scorner may
		scoff it,
	And hypocrites rage around God's people free;
He hath said in his word, by the voice of his Prophet,
 "The song of the righteous is a prayer unto me."

King Pharaoh strove, in the time of good Moses,
	To keep ancient Isra'l in bondage to him;
And today in like manner, a nation proposes,
	To render our prospects, as hopeless and grim:
But we'll stand I as they stood! and we'll see the salva-
		tion,
	Which bore them triumphantly through the Red Sea;
And we'll sing! for 'tis written in God's revelation,
	"The song of the righteous is a prayer unto me."

And blessings shall follow, yea, blessings unnumbered
	Shall answer this token, "the song of the heart:"
Oh voices long silent! oh muse that hath slumbered!
	Awake! and in union sweet praises impart.
We will sing of His grace in this imminent hour,
	Whose love is our refuge, and ever shall be;
Who hath said to His Saints, in this day of his power,
	"The song of the righteous is a prayer unto me."

											LULA.
S. L. City, March, 1882.


[Column 1]
THAT WONDERFUL BILL.

	So the deed is done, the Edmund's bill has
received the royal signature. And our doom
is sealed, so say our enemies. A bill to disfran-
chise the most loyal people upon the face of the
earth, whose only crime is, that they exercise
the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, and
worship God as they have been commanded to
by revelation from heaven, and what have
the champions of this bill accomplished by this
move? In my humble opinion simply made
themselves, a hiss and a by-word throughout
all generations to come. The names of those
who voted for this infamous bill, will I believe
yet be classed with such men as Benedict Ar-
nold and those who have proved themselves
traitors to their country, and to those institu-
tions which have been bequeathed to us as a rich
legacy by the founders of American Independ-
ence. I was reading in the New York Herald,
a few days since, an extract from a manuscript
purporting to be written by a Mrs. Paddock,
on Polygamy, from actual experience (it said
among the Mormons) It contained the most
atrocious falsehoods I have ever seen in print.
About men in plural marriage whipping their
wives for trifling causes, and of one who
chained his wife down to the garret floor, and
kept her on bread and water diet for a number
of days, and many more of a like character.
And these are the wild-cat stories that are

[Column 2]
readily believed and acted upon by our wonder-
ful wise legislators. It is so perfectly ridicul-
ous, that it would be hardly worth a passing
notice, were it not for the momentous results
that are brought about from these very sources.
But it is only another drop in the cup of in-
iquity which seemingly was already filled to
overflowing.
	Now I have had a very good opportunity of
learning something of the practical working of
this system, I have had an actual experience in
it for the last 28 years. And have been inti-
mately acquainted with a great many families
where the plural order of marriage was prac-
ticed, and I have never seen or heard of any of
these occurances mentioned by this woman
writer. On the contrary there is more hap-
piness in a well regulated patriarchal family,
where all have a proper regard for each other's
rights. There is a source of joy and happiness
and satisfaction, in the certainty that we are
obeying direct commands from heaven; that
nothing else can give. And when the Congress
of the Nation go so far in their head-strong
zeal as to make plurality of wives a target, it
shows their folly and ignorance of the motives
that prompt us: they perhaps judge us from
their own standard of morals. They do not
seem to understand that they are measuring
arms with the Almighty God of heaven. The
Lord has commanded and we have obeyed.
And if we stand firmly and nobly to the prin-
ciples we have espoused, what power can move
us? As long as the Lord is on our side al-
though the whole world should be arrayed
against us, there is no cause for fear, for his
promises fail not. If we are true to our God
and our religion, and do our part, He
will certainly do his. Satan is getting despar-
ate for he knows his time is short, and the time
is near when He will reign whose right it is to
reign. Wickedness and corruption are spread-
ing with lightning rapidity, over the face of
the civilized world. And Utah is like the
oasis in the desert it is the only spot to be found
upon the earth where the people recognize the
right of the God of heaven to reveal his holy
will for the government of his people upon the
earth. All honor to those few honorable men
in Congress who had the loyalty and patri-
otism to stand up in the face of powerful opposi-
tion and advocate constitutional rights even for
the poor despised Mormons; their names will
be held in honorable remembrance by our
people throughout all time, for striving to oppose
a bill that was striking at the very root of Con-
stitional liberty.
	Have we not suffered enough in being driven
from our homes into the desert, that they must
still follow us and hunt us down as they do wild
savage beasts, who are not fit to dwell upon
this beautiful earth. Have we not a right to
the air we breathe? Or do they envy us that?
Let us stand firm and unflinching to the cause
we have espoused, for we do know that the
Everlasting Gospel has been again restored to
earth, from the heavens, and although the
wicked may rage and struggle to overthrow
this work, their plans will-be thwarted, and the
arm paralysed that fights against the people of
God. Our course is onward and upward, and
no power on earth can prevail against us if we
are faithful and trust in Him, who is mighty to
save, and Who will ere long come out in his
mighty wrath, against all those who raise their
puny arms to stay the progress of his work.
They will be crushed by the little stone; cut
out of the mountain without hands, which is
destined to roll until it shall fill the whole
earth, and all those who fight against God
will be, as the dream of a night vision, they
will all disappear before the radiant light and
glory of God.					SARAH M.


THE married woman's property bill has passed
two readings in the House of Lords, England.


CORRESPONDENCE.

				EPHRAIM, MARCH 1882.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister—After the close of the Legisla-
tive session, on the return of our brethren,
President Canute Petersen, and Counselor
Henry Beale, there was a social party in the
Sisters' Hall, in honor of the occasion, and as
many of the oldest settlers as could be com-
fortably accomodated were invited to partic-
ipate.
	We were also favored with the presence of
Sister M. A. Hyde, the County President of
the Relief Society. Bishop L. S. Anderson, of
the North Ward, Bishop C. C. N. Dorius, of
the South Ward, and their Counselors were
present. The music was excellent, the spirit of
peace and happiness seemed to fill every heart.
I wish you had been there to partake of the
pleasures and enjoyment that every-one seemed
to feel, surely we have reason to thank God
that his Holy Spirit can pervade the social
dance as well as the more serious meeting
of worship, the dance was opened and closed by
prayer, and all went home in peace and good
order at twelve o'clock. I must say the sisters
are united in all good works, and doing the
very best they can. With my best wishes for
your happiness, I subscribe myself respectfully
your Sister in the Gospel.
					AGNES S. ARMSTRONG.


THE FIERY DRAGON.

	A lowly child of heavenly birth smiled in
its innocence and purity. Truth dwelt in its
heart and many loved it: but as it grew and
increased in strength and power, the majority
hated it; and sent a fiery red dragon to destroy
it. Angels guarded it, and God Himself had
foretold it should not be destroyed. In vain
the fiery dragon tried to swallow the child, for
every attempt was foiled, and the object of his
wrath fled to the borders of civilization, hoping
to secure a safe retreat. For awhile the serene
maiden Peace waited upon it, but the dragon
followed, drove Peace away and tried again to
swallow her precious charge. God and his
angels came to the rescue. Once more the
bloody monster was baffled. The child fled to
the margin of a wide and placid river, and
found a resting place. Peace came again with
her blessings, and prosperity attended her foot-
steps. The growth of the child was fast. Not
many years passed away ere his bitter enemies
sought to put him to death. With cries of
treason they sent the Dragon to find him.
Again the child of truth was sought and rushed
upon fercely—his friends murdered and again
he fled; fled to the fastnesses of the mountains,
where none but Indians roamed the desolate
hills—the wolf sought his prey, and the
parched earth called for water. Under the
guidance of his hand gardens and farms, vil-
lages, and towns, cities and hamlets sprung up
as if by magic. The Indians became more
cizilized, flowers lifted up their heads and
breathed delicious perfume. Industries of
every description were fostered and the moun-
tains rang with the echoes of joy. Peace
settled with him. The very atmosphere told of
her presence. Grown to manhood was the
child, lovely as ever, wise and strong. His en-
emies are maddened and with cries of furious
rage send their messenger the dragon to swallow
him up. The throat of the dragon is too small.
He will choke himself before he can accomplish
the deed, and persecution will be glad to hide
himself in dismay. While the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints will continue to in-
crease in strength and power. The heaven
above is blessing it; invisible angels are around
it, the Lord himself smiles upon it, and what
is there to fear?		EMILY B. SPENCER.


172	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMANS EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms. One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine, Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	-	APRIL 15, 1882.


THE RIGHT TO ASSEMBLE.

	It is a fact very generally conceded that the
Latter-day Saints are a peculiar people. The
events which have transpired from time to time
in the history of the Church from its very com-
mencement, have also been of a peculiar charac-
ter. There is little need to recapitulate the try-
ing scenes through which this people have been
called to pass. Our readers and this great gov-
ernment are familiar with a generality of the
facts, and know how manfully the Saints have
struggled against accumulated difficulties of the
most aggravating kind. Congress has seen fit
to heed the popular clamor, and has passed pros-
criptive laws against this peculiar people, who
had thought themselves far enough away from
the great centres of civilization to live their pe-
culiar religion, and abide in peace and safety
"under their own vine and fig tree," having
periled their lives to find an asylum in the wil-
derness, and wrested the land from barrenness
and made it fruitful and desirable for the habita-
tions of men, and "for life, liberty and the pur-
suit of happiness," which they considered their
inalienable right as American citzens.
	The present peculiar position of this people
seems to demand the most careful and earnest
thought of every individual, and the best
and most intelligent expression of the same
in the most impressive manner, to represent
the whole body of the people. The Consti-
tution of the United States guarantees to all, the
right peaceably to assemble and petition the
government for redress of frievances; it also
gives to the people of all Territories the right to
f[-]ame a Constitution and apply for admission into
the Union of States. The very best method of
getting an expression of the sentiments of
a whole people is by means of a Convention.
The people in the several counties elect their
own delegate[-], those whom they desire to have
represent them, and those whom they consider
capable of doing so, with due reference to judg-
ment and ability.
	THe enemies of this people have spoken long
and loud, by means of the pulpit and the press.
Congress has hearkened and heard, and in an-
swer to thier pressing and overwhelming torrent
of entreaty, has decided to enforce such legis-
lation as seems to a free born citizen unjust and
oppressive.	In view of this, and of positive
knowledge of the numerical strength of Utah to
admit of its becoming a State, is it anything
strange or wonderful that the people should look
upon it as their right to meet in convention and
frame a Constitution, with a view that Con-
gress may give the matter due consideration
when the facts are presented before them? And
even though admission were denied, the people
will have the satis[-]action of knowing that the
effort has been made, and it will stand forever to
their credit. It is the privilege of all people to
xercise their rights in harmony with the laws


of the country in which they reside, and there
are no people under the sun more loyal to the
Constitution of their country, none who adore
with greater reverence the stars and stripes, than
the Latter-day Saints. And they have no need
to fear. God is at the helm, and there are still
many honorable and wise men in the land, who
desire to see the laws of the country righteously
administered, and who will not sanction oppres-
sion, and injustice to the weak and defenceless.
This people, as well, as this great nation, are in
the hands of Him who notes even the fall of the
sparrow.


CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.

	According to appointment and pursuant to a
joint resolution of the last Legislative Assembly
of Utah Territory, a Constitutional Convention
convened in the City Hall in this city on Mon-
day, April 10, at 12 m. A temporary organiza-
tion was formed, Daniel H. Wells, Chairman,
and Arthur Stayner, Secretary. Such business
as pertained to a temporary organization was
done, and a permanent organization effected.
President of the Convention, Joseph F. Smith;
Vice Presidents, L. E. Harrington and Edward
Dalton; Secretary, Arthur Stayner; Assistant
Secretaries, Junius F. Wells, Elmina S. Taylor
and Lyman Martineau; Chaplain, W. W. Cluff;
Sergeant at Arms, B. Y. Hampton; Messenger,
Milando Pratt. The Convention consists of
seventy-two delegates, sixty-nine gentlemen
and three ladies. Salt Lake County elected as
delegates twelve gentlemen and three ladies—
Mesdames E. B. Wells, S. M. Kimball and E.
Howard; also as alternate, Mrs. E. S. Taylor.
	On the second day it was decided that there
should be thirteen committees, to whom the
work should be assigned of reporting the several
articles which should be considered the ground
work of the proposed Constitution.
	The Articles are arranged in the following
manner: On Ordinance and Bill of Rights; On
Legislative Department; On Executive Depart-
ment;On Judiciary; On Municipal and other Cor-
porations; On Finance and State Debt; On Ed-
ucation; On Militia; On Taxation; On Impeach-
ment and Removal from Office; On Public In-
stitutions; On Boundaries; Miscellaneous Pro-
visions and Amendments; On Schedule and
Election Ordinance.
	It was decided by vote that the Chair should
appoint the several Committees.
	Third day the names of the Committees were
submitted and voted upon, and a Committee,
consisting of the Chairmen of the several Com-
mittees, was constituted a Committee on revi-
sion and consolidation, to which all reports
should be referred for compilation. It was also
decided by vote that several legal gentlemen,
members of the Convention, should be added to
this Committee, that there might be the best
legal talent at hand to aid in the work.
	On the fourth day some of the Committees
made a full report, and these were referred to
the Revision Committee, and others reported
progress.
	The fifth day all the remainder of the reports
were handed in and referred to the Committee
on Revision, and the Convention adjourned un-
til Wednesday, April 19, at two o'clock p. m.,
when it is expected the Compilation Committee
will make a final report to the Convention.


APRIL CONFERENCE.

	The Annual Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints commenced
on Thursday, April sixth, at 10 o'clock a. m., in
the Tabernacle, in this city, President John Tay-
lor presiding. The Conference continued regu-


lar meetings twice a day, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.,
and closed on Sunday afternoon, April 9. The
attendance was very large, notwithstanding the
weather during a greater part of the time, was
very stormy and disagreeable. People from all
parts of the country came in to attend Confer-
ence, and the streets presented an unusually
busy appearance, even for Conference time.
	The instruction given by those who spoke to
the people during the entire four days, was cal-
culated to encourage the Saints to persevere in
well doing, and if possible endeavor to reach a
higher standard of excellence in the practice of
the principles of the holy religion which they
had embraced. The people were counseled to
fear God and keep his commandments, to remain
true and faithful to their integrity, and manifest
a spirit of peace and good will towards all man-
kind.
	There were present on the stand Presidents
John Taylor and Joseph F. Smith, Apostles
Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Erastus Snow,
Franklin D. Richards, Brigham Young, Moses
Thatcher, F. M. Lyman, John Henry Smith
and Coun. D. H. Wells, Presiding Bishop Ed-
ward Hunter, Patriarch John Smith, and some
of the Seven Presidents of Seventies, among
them Jacob Gates, of St. George. The Presi-
dency of this Stake of Zion were in their accus-
tomed places.
	The meeting on Sunday was perhaps as nu-
merously attended as any Conference of the
Church has ever been, the house being densely
packed, and many hundreds having to go away
who could not find seats nor comfortable stand-
ing room. The music and singing on each day
were excellent, the solos by Miss Laura Nebe-
ker and Miss Agnes Olsen exceedingly well ren-
dered. Prest. Taylor, occupied the time in the
afternoon, Sunday, and during the service the
people followed Prest. Taylor in three ringing
Hosannas and Glory to God and the Lamb for
ever and ever. Amen. It was a time long to
be remembered by all present.
	Sunday evening a meeting of the Y. M. M. I.
A. was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall;
the Y. L. M. I. A. was also represented. Prest.
W. Woodruff presided. Several of the Stake
Superintendents from the different counties re-
ported the condition of the Young Men's Asso-
ciations in their respective localities. Sister
Nancy A. Clark represented the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Davis Stake, Sister Cluff the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Utah Stake, Miss Mattie Horne, of the Cen-
tral organization, represented the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Salt Lake Stake. Elmina S. Taylor, Presi-
dent of the Central Board of Y. L. M. I. A.,
made a few interesting remarks upon the bene-
fit of these organizations. Prest. Joseph F.
Smith spoke a short time, alluding to the sub-
ject of buying from our friends, and so forth.
	Elder Junius F. Wells urged the necessity of
a uniform system of roll books for the use of the
Associations.
	The meeting was a very business like and satis-
tactory one. Reports show that the Associations
are in excellent condition of progress.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A LOVELY bouquet of early Spring violets, the
gift of Mrs. Sarah Sears, (whom we most sin-
cerely thank.) are upon our table, the fragrance
of which fills the room. 

Fair violets! whose carly bloom
	Gladdens the weary heart;
Their beauty and their perfume
	Pleasure and joy impart.
They blossom lowly at our feet,
In modest grace and fragrance sweet.

	"UTAH AND ITS PEOPLE."—This little pam-
phet has been recently published in New York


City. The editor is a fair-minded, large-hearted
Gentile, an ex-United States official; one who
thinks, judging from his writings, Mormons have
rights, and who has taken pains to ascertain facts
and statistics, and he presents them to the people
in a candid, straight-forward manner. The
author enters somewhat into detail, and his
points are made clear, and proof given of cir-
cumstances as they actually exist. It is perhaps
at fairly written as any book could be by a non-
Mormon.

	"THE Goese of Ganderica" is a little work hu-
morously, written and quizzically satirical in
style. Some little boys might admire its inge-
nuity, without knowing its broad and compre-
hensive meaning and its relation to the "Mor-
mon Question" or the Utah problem. After all
there might be more in it than its size or ele-
gance of composition would indicate; but how
are we to know unless we read it? and

"As a little nonsense now and then,
Is relished by the best of men,"

the best thing to do is to buy the book and judge
for one's self. Ten cents is only a trifle, and it
may elucidate the Utah problem.
	DR. Ellen B. Ferguson has opened her office
in the Hardy building, upstairs, opposite Z. C.
M. I., where she will be pleased to see her friends
and patrons. Having devoted the past winter
to the practical study of the best methods of
treatment of Diseases of Women, and Diseases
of the Nose, Throat and Lungs, advocated and
practised by the most eminent surgeons and spe-
cialists in the Hospitals of New York, she is pre-
pared to give particular attention to these dis-
eases, and attend to all other matters pertaining
to her profession Sisters in the settlements de-
siring to study midwifery, in order to qualify
themselves to act in their respective localities,
can have an opportunity of doing so as soon as a
sufficient number are ready to form a class.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 173


BIRTHDAY REUNION.

	On Tuesday, the 11th inst., a number of rela-
tives and friends of the respected veteran,
Father Pierce, met at the residence of his
daughter, Sister E. E. Fisher, in East Mill
Creek Ward, to celebrate his eighty-fifth birth-
day. Among them were his daughter, Mrs. M.
P. Young, Elder Julian Moses and wife, it being
the anniversary of his birth also, though a
much younger man. There were several choice
presents made to Father Pierce, who seemed
truly delighted with the honor shown him and
the blessings of his friends, it being a complete
surprise to him.
	Father Pierce is an old and faithful Saint,
having gathered with this people at Nauvoo, in
1840. He has passed through drivings and tribu-
lations with them. He came to Utah in 1847,
enduring uncomplainingly all the privations of
the Saints in those early days. He has ever
proved himself worthy the love and confidence
of the Saints. At 2 p. m. the company sat
down to an elegant dinner, after which a few
hours were spent pleasantly in lively conversa-
tion, when the company dispersed, feeling they
had truly enjoyed the happy occasion, and
thankful for the privilege of joining to give
honor to one of the aged veterans in Israel.
									M. F.


FULFILMENT OF PROPHECY.

	I thought I would like to make a few remarks
through your valuable paper, for it seems as if all
the nations of the earth are arrayed against this
people; well it is what our Savior spoke of, He
said, "blessed are ye when people speak all
manner of evil of you;" So it is only fulfilling


the words of the Savior. We are told that we
have got to be a tried people, as gold seven times
purified through the fire. And another of the
ancient prophets has told us that the judgments
of the Lord have to commence at the house of
the Lord first; so we must look for it. The Lord
may let our enemies persecute us a little, and
when He sees they have done enough, He will
come out of his hiding place, and smite them as
with the besom of destruction; all the noise is
about our peculiar marital relations. Well they
must have something to fly at. I can say that
I am in that order of marriage and I thank my
heavenly Father that He ever gave me the priv-
ilege, to be counted worthy to embrace that
pure and holy principle; for I do know it is from
God, and I would not give it up for all the riches
in the world. My dear sisters, let us hold on to
that true and holy principle. I do not fear the
scoffs and frowns of a dark and benighted world.
I look for something more glorious and more
bright. As it is now, it was when the Jews
crucified our Savior,; He prayed for them, He
said, "Father forgive them for they know not
what they do," so we Latter-day Saints can pity
them for they know not what they do, when
they try to persecute this people.
	It looks as if the day was not far distant when
the prophecies of the Prophet Micah, will be ful-
filled, he states there in the 4 chapter 1st verse,
"But in the last days it shall come to pass that
the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be
established in the top of the mountains, and it
shall be exalted above the hills,and all people shall
flow unto it, and many nations shall come, and
say, come let us go up to the mountain of the Lord,
and to the house of the God of Jacob, and he
will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in
his paths, for the law shall go forth out of Zion,and
the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." Well
my dear sisters, we are in the hands of the Lord
and so are they, if we are true to our religion
they cannot harm us; the Lord will take care of
his Saints. I pray God to bless all Israel.
					FRANCES B. HART.


[Column 1]
DANIEL IN THE LION'S DEN.
NOT A CITIZEN BUT A WOMAN.

	I see by the latest news from the Capital
that senators and representatives have even re-
sorted to the most palpable falsehoods in order to
deprive Mr. Cannon of his seat in Congress, now
as for the misrepresentations of priests and peo-
ple who make a business of lying for money, we
could not waste time and paper in refuting their
many false statements relative to Mormon peo-
ple; but when a man representing a whole state,
elected to Congress by his constituents will get
up before the eyes of all nations and misrepre-
sent a people because it is popular, when that
people can prove that those false statements
made and published to the world are based upon
prejudice and misrepresentation, I think it is
time the sons and daughters of the patriot
fathers were investigating such matters. But,
says the lordly senator who are you, what do
you know about Mr. Cannon?
	I am a daughter of the Veteran Fathers! the
blood of freedom courses through my veins; I
am a legal heir to all the rights guaranteed by
the Constitution of our once free and happy
country, therefore I am not afraid to speak when
I see those sacred rights trampled upon by un-
principled representatives and let those who
are ignorant of the facts, know that "He that
judgeth a matter without hearing it" is what
the wise man Solomon calls a fool. My Brother
Thomas L. Greer who was wounded in the war
with Mexico and never received his pension be-
cause of his identity with the Mormon Church,
(which is the true Church of Christ) received

[Column 2]
from the officers of the War department in
Washington a copy of the honorable discharge
of our grandfather John Greer, who fought for
the liberty we claimed in the days of the im-
mortal Washington.
	The writer of this article, lived neighbor to
Mr. Cannon for twenty-five years, and testifies
that he is an honorable man, a man that walks
uprightly before God, and if she had ten votes
would rather give them to sustain him than to
give one to elect a man to that high and sacred
responsibility who had no regard for honor nor
for virtue; who can be bought and sold for hire,
who seeks to blind the eyes of his constituents,
and persecute the innocent and oppressed for
the sake of popularity, when he knows it is
wrong. The Mormon Prophet, Joseph Smith,
said if the United States Government consented
to the shedding of his blood and mobbing and
driving the Saints from Missouri that they would
have mobs to their hearts content. They have
done this, and since he was martyred, there has
not only been a devastating war, causing untold
sorrow to human hearts, commencing at South
Carolina according to his prediction, but two
Presidents have been martyred a thing never
known before, in the history of the American
Nation until the administrators of the Govern-
ment refused to protect the people called Mor-
mons in their Constitutional rights. Now let
these law-makers deny Mr. Cannon his seat in
Congress for no other cause but his religious be-
lief: then down, down goes the government.
God withdraws his aid, and they cannot hold to-
gether because the principles of dissolution are
planted in the heart of the Nation. I venture
to say if Gen. Washington should appear in the
Halls of Congress to-day and say, let him that
is without fault cast the first stone at Delegate
Cannon, he would be left alone to maintain that
most sacred and heaven-born instrument the
Constitution or Declaration of Independence. If
such a bill as that of Senator Edmund's becomes
a law to disfranchise the citizens of Utah
we would say take down the standard of liberty
no longer call this a Republican Government, fold
up the flag of our beloved country that so proudly
waved over the land and sea to beckon all
nations to come to the "land of the free," and
let that sacred emblem, the Goddess of Liberty,
hide or bow her head in shame and bathe her
cheeks in tears for the unjust administration of
her country's laws, and the cruelty of its wrongs.
				E PLURIBUS UNUM.
	Arizona.


IN MEMORIAM.

	WILLIAMS,—In Provo, on Sunday morning,
March 12, 1882, of pleura pneumonia, Eliza
Helen, wife of Nathaniel Williams, and daughter
of Wm. M. and Nancy Wall; aged 38 years, 5
months, and 16 days.
	Deceased leaves a husband, seven children and
many relatives to mourn her departure. She
was a devoted wife and mother, was a promin-
ent member of the Fourth Ward Relief Society,
and always foremost in ministering to the neces-
sities of the afflicted and needy. She died as
she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint, with
an unshaken faith in a glorious resurrection.
	The funeral services were held in the Provo
Meeting House, and a large cortege followed the
remains to the cemetery.
	AT grantsville, Rachel Stailey; wife of James
Worthington, in her 79th year, her death was
caused by falling on the ice, breaking her thigh
and injuring her spine; she lived six weeks after
her fall, in great suffering.
	Deceased was born October 4th, 1803, in
Franklin County, Pennsylvania; joined the
Church in Beaver County, Penn., under the


preaching of Bro. Orson Pratt, in 1836; passed
through the mobbings of Missouri and Illinois,
and gathered with the Saints. Her husband
and herself were among the first settlers of
Grantsville. She died February 24th 1882; she
lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint, was
the mother of 8 children, 5 of whom are living,33
grand-children and 2 great-grand-children.


174 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS:

SNOWFLAKE ARIZONA.

	The first Quarterly Conference of the East
Arizona Stake, of the Relief Society, Y. L. M.
I. A., and Primary Associations, was held at
Snowflake Sep. 23rd, 1881. President Wil-
mirth East presiding. On the stand were Pres-
ident Jesse N. Smith, Bp. John Hunt, Jesse N.
Perkins, Br. Fitchen, and others. W. East
gave quite an interesting report of her visit
throughout the Stake, in the interest of the R.
S. and Primary organizations; spoke of the
death of Counselor Kartchner, and gave many
testimonies of her faithfulness as a Counselor,
not only the R. S. of this place, but also in
Pangnitch; and at President Smith's sugges-
tion the vacancy was filled by Mrs. Ellen Lar-
sen.
	Sister Elizebeth Hawkins Prest. of the P. A.
said, the most important duty was, the training
of our children, teaching them to pray, and to
get up and bear their testimony while they
were young.
	President Smith also made some very en-
couraging remarks, acknowledging the labors
of the sisters, and was pleased to have these
Stake organizations effected. He then set
apart the presiding board of the P. A., which
had previously been unanimously sustained, at
the Quarterly Conference June 26th. Reports
of all the Associations were encouraging, the
Stake and local officers were presented and
sustained.
	Conference adjourned to the 23rd, of Dec., to
meet at this place.
	Minutes of the second Quarterly Conference
of Eastern Arizona Stake, of the R. S. and Y.
L. M. I. A., and Primary held at Snowflake
Dec. 23rd 1881. W. East presiding.
	Minuets of previous Conference read and ac-
cepted. The organiztions of this Stake, nine
branches of Relief Society, five Y. L. M. I. and
Primary Associations, were doing well. W.
East said: the duty of officers is to lead out and
set an example before the organizations that
they may be awake to their duties. If the sis-
ters will step forth and fill their positions, God
will help them; don't say that you are not
qualified, God will qualify you,
	Apostle E. Snow said, when the brethren are
called by the Priesthood to fill positions, if they
neglect to magnify their calling, and seek the
Lord for the spirit of their office, that spirit
will rest upon another;" and this will apply to
you my sisters, History fails to give an ac-
count of the organization of women, until re-
vealed in this dispensation by Joseph Smith.
Of a truth we can sing "We thank Thee O God
for a Prophet." Counselor Ruth Rogers was
called upon to give a verbal report, said, she
had attended most of the meetings; had counted
as many as fifty-six at the P. A., and thought
the President and Counselors of this Ward de-
served praise. Hoped there was not a family
that did not teach their children to pray. The
first principle that we should teach them
was, that they have a Father in Heaven; that
will hear and answer their prayers. Stake
Pres. of the Y. L. Ida Hunt, desired to have
the spirit of her calling, judging from the re-
ports the Associations were in a flourishing con-
dition; was glad they had never refused when
called upon. The officers of the different or-

[Column 2]
ganizations were sustained. Adjourned until
2 P. M.
	Afternoon session commenced by the usual
services of singing and prayer, after which W.
East said, there was one item she wished to pre-
sent before the conference, that was sending for
the "Questions and Answers," published by
Sister E. R. Snow Smith, in the interest of the
Primary organizations. Ida Hunt then read
from the EXPONENT the financial and statistical
report read at the October conference of 1881,
showing what had been accomplished by the
Y. L. M. I. A.
	W. East continued, you can see by this re-
port what can be done by the sisters; thanked
the brethren for having assisted in the erection
of the Society Hall, the first one built by the
Relief Society in Arizona.
	President Smith said; I realize from the re-
port that has been read, that the R. S. is be-
coming a power in the land; must confess that
the statistics were a little suprising, felt that
the R. S., were in good hands; desired the
brethren and sisters that could, would write
for the Instructor: appealed to the sisters to
assist in establishing a system of refinement
and good manners especially in the ball-room,
was opposed to round dancing and hoped they
would not indulge in it. Sister East recom-
mended that we sustain the counsel given by
Prest. Smith. Conference adjourned to meet
at St. John's March 24th, 1882.
	A general invitation was then given to meet
at the Society Hall in the evening at 7 o'clock,
to celebrate the Prophet's birthday. The
house was well filled; after the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, President Jesse N.
Smith, made a few interesting remarks, then
called for those who knew the Prophet while
living, among whom were S. H. Rogers, Bp.
Nobles, Bp. Owens, John Oakly, Nathan Ten-
ny, and others who are living witnesses and
who testified to the divinity of his mission, and
the great work that had been accomplished
through his instrumentality and of the bless-
ings we enjoyed through obedience to the same.
Wilmirth East, President; Lorana P. Rogers,
Sec'y. P. A. Eastren Arizona.


[Column 1]
UTAH STAKE PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	Minutes of the Primary Conference held in
Provo March 2nd, 1882. Meeting called to
order by President Zina Y. Williams, singing
by the children, and prayer offered by Anna
K. Smoot. The minutes of the previous meet-
ing were then read and approved. After
which the President expressed her delight in
seeing so many laboring for the advancement
of the children; and instructed the Presidents
how to report.
	Verbal reports were received from teh follow-
ing: Mary Farrer, First Ward, Provo, Sarah
Goodman Second Second Ward, Hester Beebee, Third
Ward, Mrs. Snyder, Fonrth Ward; Hannah
Huntington, Fifth Ward, Springville, Sister
Williams, First Ward Springville; Sister Fraser,
Santaquin; Sister Felt, Pleasant Grove; Sister Davis,
Lehi; Sister Booth, Alpine: Sister Wilcox,
Cedar Fort; Sister Snyder, Fairfield.
	The President had been well pleased in hear-
ing as favorable reports from the various so-
cieties.
	The meeting was then given over to Sister
Louie Felt, who desired to hear from the child-
ren. Questions from the Bible Questions and
Answers were answered by the children of the
First Ward, Provo; a song from Miss Jones,
Second Ward, and recitations from Emma
Johnson, Lydia Wilson, Ervin Pratt and By-
ron Doolin Third Ward; Lizzie Chesly, of the
Fourth Ward answered questions from the Bible
Catechism. President Louie Felt related in-
stances where children had exercised great

[Column 2]
faith in God; and had aided missionaries by
their prayers and pocket money, claiming the
blessings of God for so doing. Prayed that
their Heavenly Father would bless them and
keep their minds pure from evil influences.
Hoped they would never forget to pray.
	Sister Mary Freeze spoke of the injurious
effect of tea and coffee. Wished the children
to obey their parents, presidents and teachers,
that they might learn principles of mortality
and virtue.
	Sister Elmina S. Taylor had been exceed-
ingly well pleased in seeing the bright children
and hearing the songs, recitations and ques-
tions answered. Prayed God to bless the
children; and their President, Zina Y. Wil-
liams as well as those who were laboring in dif-
ferent parts of the County. Asked them to
remember the instructions given.
	Singing, "Joseph's First Prayer." Benedic-
tion by Presendia Kimball.
			SARAH E. CLUFF, Stake Sec'y

RIVERDALE.

	The Relief Society of Riverdale met at the
residence of Brother W. G. Childs according
to an appointment to hold meeting at 10
o'clock A. M. Bishop Sanford Bingham,
Counselor Wm. Stimpson and several of the
brethren were present. Meeting called to or-
der by President M. A. Bingham. Singing
"Come let us anew," prayer by Bro. Hunter,
singing "Oh say what is truth." Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved, also our
yearly report. The district was then reported
the majority of the people feeling well, some
sickness among the children. President M.
A. Bingham, Counselors Edna Stimpson and
Nancy Bybee; each spoke of the goodness of
God to us, gave us good counsel and words of
encouragement to all present.
	Bishop S. Bingham exhorted the Sisters to
be united, to be faithful, to the work they were
engaged in, be careful to instruct their child-
ren in the right way, and not speak against any
principles that had been revealed through the
servants of God, bore testimony to the prin-
ciples of Celestial Marriage, said it was a true
principle from the Lord. Bro. Hunter, Coun-
selor Wm. Stimpson and Bro. Dye, all felt well
in meeting with the sisters; bore testimony to
the truth of this being the work of God we are
engaged in, said Celestial Marriage, and all the
principles revealed to the Prophet Joseph were
from our Heavenly Father. Advised the sis-
ters to be united and persevere in doing good.
	Sister Hansen, of Plain City, spoke of her
experience in this Church in a very intersting
manner, also in a kindly and sympathetic way
towards our young folks, believed they would
stand true to the faith of their parents. Meet-
ing closed by singing "Oh My Father"
Benediction by Bishop S. Bingham.
	After meeting a bountiful supper was partak-
en of by over 30 elderly bretheren and sisters
and some young people, and children. A so-
cial chat followed and some songs to enliven
the time, all present feeling we had an extra
good time, hoping that we would through the
blessing of God be able to have many more
such parties. We have some good sisters in
Riverdale, our worthy President her Coun-
selors, Secretary and Treasurer, are all good
women who try to do their duty, attend to the
sick, and the wants of the poor. We unitedly
pray for the welfare of Zion, the EXPONENT, is
a welcome visitor in this our little settlement.
						MARY M. DYE.

SPRINGVILLE PRIMARY.

	Conjoint Meeting held at the meeting house,
March 18th 1882, for the purpose of receiving


instructions from Sisters, Presendia Kimball
and Zina D. H. Young. President Hannah
Huntington presiding. Singing by the child-
ren, "Gather them into the fold." Sister Zina
said, I am well pleased to see so many smiling
faces before me, I have traveled a great dis-
tance since I saw you last, I saw a great many
fine looking children, they were dressed very
nice, but they were not clothed with the Spirit
of God, as these dear children are before me.
Those children do not know of the true and
living God as you do, nor do they enjoy his
blessings. I visited a blind assylum; in one
room I saw a number of young girls learning
to do fancy work, in another room were boys
busy studying their books which have raised
letters, they were all blind but apparently hap-
py. Now little children how thankful you all
ought to be, for your eye-sight. . Dear children
learn to be courteous and kind toward one an-
other, treat elderly people with great respect.
If you wish to become great men and women
and please your Heavenly Father, you must do
as near right as you can; do not use tobacco
tea or coffee. But above all honor and obey
your parents, and God will bless all of you.
As my sister and I are called away to Provo
our visit will be short with you to-day. But I
feel to say God bless you all.
	Sister Kimball addressed us on educating
our minds with the principles of the Gospel.
Boys I exhort you not to use tobacco, for the
word of God tells us, it is not for man; if you
want to be pure and white, drink neither tea
nor coffee. Children be kind and loving to-
ward all, especially the aged, you will then be
prepared to take our places, for we will soon
pass away. Be faithful and you will live to
see the coming of the Son of God, if you have
faith you will stand in that day and help to
build up his kingdom. Honor and obey your
parents, and teachers, that you may be pure
for the pure will be saved, when the wicked
shall be destroyed. God bless you all and
preserve you from harm and danger is my
prayer.
	Sister Zina then exhorted the children to be
industrious and learn to do all kinds of work,
that they might be useful men and women, said
be neat and orderly, in all you do for there is
order in the house of our heavenly Father. I
have a petticoat to show you that my grand-
mother spun, wove and made for my mother
when she was a baby, it is ninety-six years
old.
	Children if some of you are clothed better
than.others do not make fun or despise them,
but do all you can for their good. Love to do
good at all times. God bless you all.
	Brother Kelsey felt to endorse all the sisters
had said, Singing by the children "Joseph
Smith's First Prayer." Benediction by Wm.
H. Kelsey.	MARTHA J. REYNOLDS, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 175


THE Massachusetts House Committee on
woman's suffrage, recently reported a bill
allowing woman to vote for Presidential
electors.—Ex.

	MRS. Matilda Joslyn Gage informs us, that
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton sails for Europe
soon. Mrs. Stanton has a son in Paris and will
doubtless join him there. We sincerely wish
her a pleasant voyage.

	THE state convention of the New York Wo-
man Suffrage Assocsation was held in Utica,on
the 9th, and 10th of March. It was a very en-
thusiastic meeting, and the four sessions were
well attended. Speeches were made by Dr.
Clemence Lozier, of New York, Mary S.
Howell, Mrs. Lillie D. Blake, Mrs. Matilda
Joslyn Gage, Dr. Harriet V. Chapin, Mrs. Car-
oline Rogers, and others. A County Commit-
tee was formed by the ladies of Utica and
other towns for the county of Oneida.—Ex.


[Column 1]
SOCIETY IN THE EAST.

	Although I am not authorised to publish this
letter written to me by an old friend and play-
mate who is still living in the East,yet it shows
up life in "Christian" Monogamy in so true a
light that I can not refrain, though for her sake
the names are withheld.
						"March 5th. 1882.
"DEAR HELEN:
	"Your last letter bears the date Jan. 20th
1881 and is yet unanswered. I have had the
disposition to write you many times, but I am
a woman of cares and sorrow, and am possessed
of so little strength to do that I am compelled
to spend my hours waiting, "only waiting" for
rest, but in vain. I think of you often in these
days when the Polygamy problem is before the
people. What will result from it all, who can
tell ?
	"I think all these problems that come up help
to move the world. But dear me I see so
much to deplore in society here, that I oft feel
sick at heart, and ashamed of the perversity of
human nature. What the remedy is or should
be I am not competent to decide. But right
here there is plenty of "marital infidelity" and
accompanied with hypocrisy and lying to a
powerful extent. With me lying is "the sum
of all villainies." "Dare to be true, nothing can
need a lie, the fault that needs it most grows
two thereby."
	"Your son Orson said here that the only
argument against Polygamy was jealousy, and
believe me women suffer here more from that
cause. And it does seem to me that if monog-
amy marriage is or should be set aside for a rule,
and more liberty given in the social relations of
men and women, yet for those who have placed
themselves under vows of constancy each to the
other, that such should be true to their vows,
unless they get the consent of each other to
deviate therefrom.
	"I will give a little of our family trouble.
My brother married a girl in P——16 years
ago. For some six years there have been some
who have judged her to be false to him. He
has fought it bravely, and suffered much for
her sake, because he believed her innocent;
but the past few weeks here demonstrated be-
yond a doubt her wickedness, I say wickedness
for she has constantly avowed her innocence,
and has poured into my cars the story of her
wrongs, and she had such an air of injured in-
nocence and told her story so well, that I was
fooled, and I have never been called credulous,
but guess I have been. When the facts were
made known to me and I was obliged to yield,
I groaned and wept aloud. Such a long line
of hypocrisy and lying,sinks into insignificance
the adulterous connection. But say they, "the
lying always accompanies the adultery and is
always regarded the lesser crime." But, I
should be an honorable exception and would
shame the devil once, by owning the truth,
rather than lose my self-respect by lying.
Brother has a bill of divorce with the custody
of the children, two girls one thirteen and one
six, bright girls. There was no publicity given
to the affair as she did not contest, and he gave
her more money. Judge said it was a clear
case. She is in P——now and he is in
M.——*		*		*		*		*		*		*
	"I've been to church to-day,*	*	*	I hear
very little to satisfy, but think it better on the
whole than not to go out at all. Brother M—
was here this winter and read your letter; said
he did wish he could go to Utah. It will not
be strange if he does some time. I wish he
could meet Orson. When do you expect him
home?
	"I have received the papers you have sent,
and often see articles I wish you had; but you
are very well posted I see. It will not be very
strange if there is trouble here enough to dis-

[Column 2]
tract the nation from all thoughts of Polygamy.
This Conkling appointment seems too much of
a dose for Republicans. Men are treacherous
and selfish. Who can be trusted?	*	*	*
I have little faith in an overruling power and
am no spiritualist. I can easily understand
why you and I think so differently. My hope
is as good as the best. I entertain no fears."
	In her last letter before this she mentioned a
similar case in a respectable family there,whom
we were well acquainted with, though they
were not members of our church. Her parents
and my own were great friends and were
among the first who received this Gospel.
They were worth considerable property and
were among those who first became disaffected
and fell away. They joined the church called
Josephites some years ago and their daughter
who wrote this letter has seen so little of the
spirit of Christianity in them, or any other sect
professing it that she has lost all faith in an
overruling power. When a little girl she had
a severe attack of fever caused by taking cold
which left her a wretched invalid for life. We
have corresponded for years and in previous
letters she has made me acquainted with many
things, that prove to me how little happiness
there is enjoyed by those who have once pos-
sessed and then lost the light of this Gospel.
In the letter which she refers to I spoke most
plainly upon this subject and told her how
great and terrible would be the punishment of
parents who had led their children away from
the only true path, when they should meet them
before the Bar of God to give an account of
their deeds done here in the body, I told her
that she would then know (if not before) that
these things were true. I felt impressed to
speak these words though I did not know ex-
actly how she would receive them; and I con-
fess that I was surprised to hear that one of her
brothers after reading it had expressed such a
desire to come to Utah. But Latter-day
Saints can afford to be bold and fearless for
our weapon is truth and truth is mighty and will
prevail.					H. M. WHITNEY.


HINTS TO MOTHERS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Mother!—That name is so universal, that
the glory the grandeur and the mighty respon-
sibility of that sacred name is often forgotten!
It is a name next only to that of God!
	In the ritual of the Church of England in
the baptism of infants they have sponsors,
who are called god-fathers, and god-
mothers; and since I have seen a greater light
and comprehend a more perfect order I have
often pondered on those beautiful titles, and
felt there was a truth, and a principle in them,
not understood by those who used them; but
the sponsorship is a noble provision, and in
many instances, such have taken upon them-
selves to literally fulfill it to children be-
reaved of their parents. But the mother, and
her duties fill my thoughts at the present mo-
ment, and let it be borne in mind that I am not,
writing theoretically—but that which I gained
in a deep and practical school, commencing
when only eighteen years of age; I advance
nothing at any time, but what I know to be
verily true!
	The mission of the mother to bear—and still
more to rear children, is to those who realize
the responsibility, an almost overwhelming
novitiate and none can effectually accomplish
it, unless they seek for strength and ability
from the Father—God: To rear children that
shall be a blessing to themselves and all that
they are associated with, is indeed a mighty
achievement! Education must begin with the
mother; even in the ante-natal stage; yes I
believe this to be a most important school fo-


the unborn infant to pass through, and it will
exhibit its training from the earliest stages of
its, earth-life. It is astonishing what a creature,
of habit wc can make of an infant; if the
mother is regular and wise in her habits, the
tiny creature becomes the same, if a healthy
child; if she is the oposite of this, the child be-
comes restless and irritable. When only a few
months old, it will understand the tones of its
mother’s voice, and even the expression of her
face! If she is unhappy or irritable, or easily
excited, her child will become the same; if she
is happy and lively, the child will instantly
partake of the same blessed influence. In this
way commences the education of children; a
mother should constantly remember the end
from the beginning, and hence make a point
of never giving a child any thing it ought not
to have, merely to please it, or to keep it quiet,
Children are very easily pleased, if their tastes
are not early vitiated—how often we see hap-
piness destroyed through life by this early per-
version; a little child is just as pleased with a
rag-doll, nicely "fixed up" as with an expensive
one. Feeding and clothing children properly
would alone fill many sheets—health is often
deseroyed by want of wisdom in these matters,
in fact rearing children is a mighty volume that
we write in them for time, and probably for
eternity; a well educated young person, is a bless-
ing to the world!—let mothers work for etern-
ity in rearing their children, and, not bestrew
their young days with the gew-gaws of the age,
its fashions, and its nonsense, and their present
life will publish the fact. The heart, the brain,
the affection, the disposition, all must be cul-
tivated to form a character. Never buy the
good conduct of a child. It is a bad principle
to say if you will be good, or do this, or that, I
will give you a present—a new dress or some
other gift. Teach them that goodness and
obedience bring their own reward; offering
rewards is bribery and inculcates in
then a grasping craving, and imperative nat-
ure; and as they grow up they become
imperious; yet, let there be times for re-
warding; when a child has been good, and
obedient or helping mother nicely not expect-
ing reward, then let it come forth with loving
and approving words; then it will have a ben-
eficial influence, but never as wages, no never!
When a child says I will do so and so if you
will give me what I want, then is the moment
to teach it, that to be what God loves; we must
work on principle and assure them the reward
will come, certainly from our own conscience,
if in no other way, and that is the sweetest of
all rewards. for without it all others are taste-
less. Teach them to despise being either
bought or sold, and their good actions ever ac-
knowledged in a suitable way that shall edify,
and instruct or comfort and engender self-re-
spect . Kind and encouraging words to a well
trained child, are more beneficial than any
present. Rewards are proper for all—but the
way in which they are offered enhances the
gift, or may have an injurious effect. The
jewel if ever so costly, requires taste and tact
in the setting, or the intrinsic worth is not re-
alized. Dear mothers; young mothers, study
how to educate your children in the sweet
school Home, and in the future, you will reap
a rich reward, that will shed a mighty blessing
over the evening of your days, and will give a
peace and a satisfaction that no one can
take away. Hints are all I can at present
offer.


176 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN were employed and commended as
compositors as early as 1481. The first notable
female printer was Charlotte Guillard, who was
in business for fifty years in the city of Psris.
This pioneer of feminine followers of Gutten-
berg was celebrated for the correctness of the
works issued from her press. She first entered
the typographical ranks in 1506.—Ex.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN BOMBAY.

	A correspondent of the Boston Woman's
Journal writes:—
	Now that a special effort is being made to
secure municipal suffrage for women in Massa-
chusets, it may interest you to know that wo-
men in Bombay, British India, already have a
right to vote for municipal officers.
	Four years ago, my landlord, a well known
Parsee gentleman, was a candidate for member
of the municipal corporation, from the Mazagon
ward. He appealed to my friends to use their
influence to persuade me to vote for him, and
finally sent his agent to me with the necessary
papers and the blanks filled out with my name.
The agent assured me that I only needed to re-
gister my name at the Mazagon police station,
in order to become a legal voter.
	On the day of polling, one Parsee lady pre-
sented herself at the police station to vote for
this gentleman; and in the Girgaum ward one
Hindoo lady voted for the Hindoo candidate of
that ward.
	This was noticed in the daily papers, but
apparently did not attract much attention. At
that time any person, male or female, paying
taxes on property, whether as owner, trustee, or
agent, was entitled to vote for municipal of-
ficers. Since then the law has been changed,
making any person who pays a municipal tax
a legal voter.
	At the last election, one year ago, several
Parsee and Hindoo ladies, one Mussulman, and
one European lady, voted in their respective
wards. Considerable attention was attracted
to this by the daily papers, and a certain
amount of interest manifested itself, so it is
likely that when the next election comes
around, two years hence, a large number of
ladies will present themselves as voters.—Ex.


SUSAN B. Anthony appeared March 28, be-
fore the woman suffrage committee of the U. S.
Senate, and argued in favor of granting the
ballot to women.

	THERE is no reason, in our judgment, why
women should not be allowed all the rights and
privileges of citizenship. but at present the law
does not recognize them as such—Christian
Union.
	"THE Governor of Massachusetts has named
Mrs. Robert C. Winthrop a member of the
Advisory Board on State institutions for wo-
men; Mrs. Henry F. Durant is a Commissioner
on Prisons; Mrs. Anna B. Richardson a Trustee
of the State Industrial School."

	"The first magizine in this country conducted
solely by women was the Lowell Offering. It
originated in an "Improvement Circle" in one of
the churches in Lowell, Mass. Operators in the
Lowell mills were its first editors, from 1842 to
1849. Its first motto was;

The worm on the earth
May look up to the star.

The articles were all written by factory girls,
and printed as written. Miss Lucy Larcom
was one of its frequent contributors.
	"The whole Lowell factory community in
1840 was filled with the idea of self culture and
a better education." But when foreign-born
operatives came in, and labor was cheapened,
the whole tone of factory society was changed,
and the Offering had to be abandoned. But it
was a marked power for good while it lasted."


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,

[Column 2]
AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK OF
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
CHILDREN'S FINE SHOES,
[-]bein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.

Home-Made SILK,
AT 
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, 	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels, 	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City, 
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STOVE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

