VOL. 10. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1881.		NO. 5.


[Column 1]
AN INDIAN AT THE BURIAL-PLACE
		OF HIS FATHERS.

	MRS. E. B. WELLS:—Will you please copy into the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, the following poem from the pen
of Wm. Cullen Bryant.
	When in St. George I promised a copy to some of my
friends in that place, and feel assured that its re-publica-
tion would be a gratification to many.		E. R. S. S. 

	"It is the spot I came to seek—
	My father's acnient burial-place,
	Ere from these vales, ashamed and weak,
	Withdrew our wasted race.
	It is the spot I know it well—
	Of which our old traditions tell

	"For here the upland bank sends but
	A ridge toward the river-side;
	I know the shaggy hills about,
	The meadows smooth and wide,
	The plain, that, toward the southern sky
	Fenced east and west by mountains lie

	"A white man gazing on the scene,
	Would say a lovely spot was here,
	And praise the lawns, so fresh and green,
	Between the hills so sheer.
	I like it not, I would the plain
	Lay in its tall old groves again.

	"The sheep are on the slopes around,
	The cattle in the meadows feed,
	And laborers turn the crambling ground,
	Or drop the yellow seed,
	And prancing steeds in trappings gay,
	Whirl the bright chariot o'er the way.

	"Methinks it were a nobler sight.
	To see these vales in woods arrayed,
	Their summits in the golden light
	Their trunks in grateful shade,
	And herds of deer that boundless go
	O'er hills and prostrate trees below.

	"And then to mark the lord of all,
	The forest hero trained to wars,
	Quivered and plumed, and lithe and tall,
	And scamed with glorious scars,
	Walk forth, amid his reign to dare
	The wolf, and grapple with the bear.

	"This bank in which the dead are laid,
	Was sacred when its soil was ours;
	Hither the silent Indian maid
	Brought wreaths of beads and flowers,
	And the gray chief and gifted seer
	Worshiped the God of thunders here.

	"But now the wheat is grown and high
	On clods that hid the warrior's breast,
	And scattered in the furrows lie
	The weapons of his rest,
	And there, in the loose award is thrown
	Of his large arm the mouldering bone.

	Ah, little thought the strong and brave
	Who bore their lifeless chieftain forth—
	Or the young wife that weeping gave
	Her first-born to the earth,
	That the pale race who waste us now,
	Among their bones should guide the plough.

	"They wast us—ay—like April snow
	In the warm noon, we shrink away
	And fast they follow as we go
	Toward the setting day—
	Till they shall fill the land, and we
	Are driven into the Western sea.

	"But I behold a fearful sign,
	To which the white man's eyes are blind;
	Their race may vanish hence, like mine,
	And leave no trace behind,
	Save ruins o'er the regions spread,
	And the white stones above the dead!

	"Before these fields were shorn and tilled,
	Full to the brim our rivers flowed;

[Column 2]
	The melody of waters filled
	The fresh and boundless wood:
	And torrents dashed and rivulets played, 
	And fountains spouted in the shade.

	"Those grateful sounds are heard no more, 
	The springs are silent in the sun;
	The rivers by the blackened shore, 
	With lessening current run;
	The realm our tribes are crushed to get
	May be a barren desert yet."


[Column 1]
THE PILGRIM MOTHERS AND HER-
	OINES OF THE REVOLUTION.

		BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE. 

	The fortitude of the Pilgrim Fathers has been
praised for the last 250 years, and the daring
deeds of the heroes of the revolution have been
extolled ever since the great event of July 4th,
1776. But who has descanted on the virtues
and fortitude of the Pilgrim Mothers, and on
the moral courage of the heroines of the Am-
erican revolution. While the hearts of the
fathers and sons, in the struggle for the free-
dom of our country, were fired with the wrongs
they had received and they stood forth in bat-
tle array determined that it should be liberty or
death; where were the wives and mothers?
Were they not actuated by the same spirit?
Was not the yearning for liberty as strong in
their breasts as in those of the fathers and sons!
When the cry rang through the land, To Arms!
To Arms! Did they not like the Spartan
mothers with cheerful face though bleeding
heart commend them to the gods?
	Hark! to the distant roar of the cannon
the enemy is in the distance. The streets are
lined with the heroes of 76. The beating of
the drums and the clarion notes of the bugle
call them to action.
	The prancing of the horses and the bright
uniforms of the leaders, fires the hearts and
sends the warm blood thrilling through the
veins of the husbands and sons, and in the excite-
ment of the times, they think not of the danger
that awaits them. But, in times of danger,
woman's heart takes in the whole. While she
in part partakes of the same patriotic spirit
her racked brain conjures up untold miseries
for the dear ones, soon to pass from sight.
Look! at that wife with babe in arms and the
little ones around her. Note the pale face,
the tear in the eye, the anguish of that swelling
bosom as she bids God speed to the husband of
her youth, and father of her children. See!
the clinging embrace of that mother as she
clasps her only son to her breast, perhaps for
the last time. Picture to yourself the heart
sickening anxieties of the wives and mothers
in that long and dreary winter, when their
husbands and sons were suffering the greatest
privations at Valley Forge. When even the
frozen ground was marked with the bloody
foot prints of the dear ones. O, the watching
and waiting the sleepless nights and shadowy
days, the torture of that long dream of suspense
none but a woman's heart can feel. Think of
all the scenes, and tell me if the wives and
mothers were not as patriotic and self-sacrific-
ing as the fathers and sons. True they gave
not their blood on the battle field; but they
gave what is far more dear to a woman's heart—
their husbands and sons.
	With joy we hail the birth-day of our beloved
country and while we are partaking of the rich

[Column 2]
benefits derived from the glorious triumph
gained by the fathers of our country, let us not
forget the mothers.
	With joy we honor and reverence the mem-
ory of the heroes of 76. May their noble deeds
never be forgotten. And thrice blessed be the
memory of the heroines for like the widow
whom the Savior extolled, they gave their all.


MISS MATTIE PAUL HUGHES, M.D.
				------
	We publish below a notice from the Marine
City Reporter, Michigan, of a very delicate op-
eration performed by the young lady whose
name we give here, a girl well known and
highly esteemed in Utah. We rejoice in the
success she has achieved in the honorable pro-
fession she has chosen. Considering Miss
Mattie was so long a typo for the EXPONENT,
it is not remarkable that we should feel very
proud of her attainments. She is all the more
entitled to admiration, than she has by persev-
erance, industry and self-denial made her
own way in the face of difficulty, although she
has had many friends here, who have encour-
aged her and helped her forward and has gained
many among those with whom she has been
associated while absent.
	Utah has now quite a number of lady physici-
ans, who are practising very successfully among
the people. Strangers visiting here are quite
surprised when we tell them, that we have
graduated lady doctors, as they have been in-
formed previously we were all kept in ignorance
as regarded any of the higher walks of educa-
tion.  
	"A very skillful surgical operation pertain-
ing to vesico-vaginal festula was performed in
Algonac, on Wednesday, by Miss Mattie P.
Hughes, M.D., with the assistance of Drs.
Moore, of Algonac, and W.H. Smith, of St.
Clair. Dr. Slocum had been invited to take
part in the operation, but declined to play
"second fiddle" to a woman, nevertheless, neither
Dr. Moore, who is a graduate of McGill College,
Montreal, nor Dr. Smith, who ranked at the
head of his class when in Michigan University,
and who has since not only been an unusually
successful practitioner, but has received the
commendation of the scientific press and schol-
ars of the Old World for his writings, felt that
they were compromising their dignity by assist-
ing a lady in a very difficult operation upon one
of her own sex. Especially is this true, when the
lady in question is such a genial and accom-
plished woman as Miss Hughes, who not only
graduated from the Medical Department Mich-
igan University with a reputation for superior
scholarship but is possessed of a courage and
self-reliance, an obliging disposition and a lady
like deportment which at once commend her
to general favor. In the above case this young
lady physician took the principal part in the
work, and thus demonstrated by actual experi-
ence that some of her sex at least are capable
of performing the most difficult and complicated
operations in medical practice.


THIS year 612 female artists were represented
at the Paris Salon. One hundred and ninety-
eight exhibited pictures, 365 water-colors,
drawings, or faiences, and forty-nine sculptures.
Eight were among the medaled or Ihonorably
mentioned.


34	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The second winter after my father left us
we were once more in the enjoyment of health
William and I attended school taught in a
room belonging to Brother Winchester by Jus-
tin Johnson brother to Mrs. Marinda Hyde,
who was living in our neighborhood. The
next summer William went to live with an old
friend Dr. F. G. William's, in Upper Com-
merce and by this means was able to clothe
himself and help mother. While living there
a circus came through and he knowing that I
had never seen one came up to take me with
him, but found me very sick, as I had been
again attacked with chills and fever and was so
delirious that I knew nothing about his coming.
I mention this circumstance to show how long
a time we were afflicted with this disease, after
a short recovery we would be again taken with
a relapse. Those who were strong enough wore
it out in time, but many died because they were
previously worn out and had not sufficient
vitality to battle with this and other diseases
brought on by suffering and privation and they
died martyrs to the truth.
	In the mean time the Apostles were perform-
ing a mighty work in Europe and many of the
Saints had come to Zion with songs of rejoicing
bringing welcome messages from the absent
ones, as well as many little gifts presented them
by the Saints in England. This seemed to les-
sen the distance between us and to make the
weeks and months pass more swiftly and our
bodily afflictions were less tedious to bear.
Brother William Clayton and his wife's family,
the Moons, were among them and also Thomas
	Walmesly and wife and many more who came
over were among my father's first converts.
They had powerful testimonies to bear, one of
them I will mention.
	When my father first visited Mr. Walmesly
he found his wife sick of consumption, and had
been for several years and was reduced to a
mere skeleton; and was given up to die, by the
doctors. My father after preaching the Gospel
to her, promised her in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ if she would believe, repent and
be baptized, she should be healed. She was
carried to the water and after her baptism she
began to mend, and at her confirmation she
was blest, and her disease rebuked, when she
immediately recovered and in less than one
week she was attending to her household duties,
I have heard her bear testimony to this miracle
many times. They are now living in Bear
Lake Valley, Oneida Co. Idaho. When they
came to Nauvoo they found us sick and they
administered to our comfort. Among those
who came over were "well to do" people, and
they had assisted some of the poor Saints to
Zion. The majority of them were of the poor
and meek of the earth but none the less to
show their love they desired to give some little
token, if it was but a toy, and would insist
upon the brethren taking them to the children.
All who knew my father heard him speak of
his little girl, and many and various were the
things sent me, numerous handkerchiefs were
among them, which generally had Queen Vic.,
as she was commonly called, and Prince Albert
printed on them; her Majesty having lately
been crowned Queen of Great Britain.
	I also received a variety of pretty little china
dishes and a box of wooden ones as well as china
dolls; but during the time my father was absent
his little girl had grown to be a large one and
by her seniors was considered entirely too old
to play with them and pride forbade that I
should do what they thought improper so I gave
many away retaining only the useful and those
suitable for ornaments; but after I had laid
aside my own dolls etc., and childish enjoy-
ments I remember the pleasure I took in mak-

[Column 2]
ing and dressing them for others younger than
myself. I sometimes think it a mistaken idea
in American mothers to want their daughters
to become sedate and womanly before they
have fairly reached their teens. We can never
be young but once in this life and I like child-
ren to enjoy themselves while they can for they
will grow old soon enough.
	I will mention a little incident that hap-
pened the summer previous to my father's re-
turn. The Prophet and two or three brethren
had called at our house to hear a letter read
from father, and when they rose to leave, Jo-
seph, who stood by the bureau, where a couple
of china dolls were standing upon two large
salt cellars, which had also been sent from
England to my mother, while he was talking
took one up to look at, but in replacing it
sat it upon one side, when it fell, breaking the
head off; he merely remarked: "As that has
fallen, so shall the heathen gods fall." I stood
there a silent observer, unable to understand
or appreciate the prophetic words, but thought
them a rather weak apology for breaking my
doll's head off. My mother afterwards mended
it, and though like most of us it shows signs of
age, and that it has passed through many or-
deals, yet I have kept it, with two or three
other little tokens which I received from Eng-
land, and they serve as reminders of scenes
"some forty years ago."
	My brother William and I received each a
beautifully bound Book of Mormon from
Uncle Brigham Young, with our names printed
upon the back in gilt letters, and father sent
the same to Brigham Young's daughters, Eliz-
abeth and Vilate. I have read mine through
by course more times than any book I ever
saw, and each time it has proved more interest-
ing; I was never more deeply fascinated by a
novel than I have been with the Book of Mor-
mon. There is but one fault which I find with
it—the print is so fine that many times I have
been forced to stop reading it; and this, I be-
lieve, prevents many from reading it who
otherwise would, as some who are not of our
faith but are friendly to this people, have men-
tioned this to me, and said it was the only rea-
son why they did not read it. This I think is
a great pity.
	The following historical items are interesting
and ought to be known by our sons and daugh-
ters, and by the world, who think we are a low,
ignorant, degraded people, because our enemies
say we are, forsooth. "The charter for the city
of Nauvoo, including charters for the Nauvoo
Legion and the University of the city of Nau-
voo, was signed by Governor Thomas Carlin
on the 16th of December, 1840, and took effect
from the 1st of February.	*	*	*	The
24th section empowered the City Council to
establish within the limits of the city an insti-
tution for the teaching of the arts, sciences
and learned professions, to be called the 'Uni-
versity of the City of Nauvoo,' The 25th in-
vested it with power to organize the inhabit-
ants of the city, subject to military duty, into
a body of independent military men, to be
called the 'Nauvoo Legion.' The Legion was
to perform the same amount of military duty
as was then, or thereafter might be, required
of the regular militia of the State, and was at
the disposal of the Mayor in executing the
laws and ordinances of the city corporation, and
the laws of the State and of the United States,
and was entitled to its proportion of the public
arms. The Legion was exempt from all other
military duty." This act was considered a
very liberal one, and the Prophet said: "I con-
cocted it for the salvation of the Church, and
on principles so broad that every honest man
might dwell secure under its protective influ-
ence, without distinction of sect or party."
After laying this foundation for the gathering
of the Saints, the First Presidency and the
Twelve Apostles exhorted those who had capi-

[Column 3]
tal to establish manufactories in the city, that
employment might be given to the poor and
the laboring classes as they arrived; and the
Prophet, with Sidney Rigdon and Hyrum
Smith, issued a proclamation inviting the
wealthy to remove to Nauvoo and neighbor-
hood, and establish and build up manufactories
and to pnrchase and cultivate farms, that a
permanent inheritance might be secured and
the way prepared for the poor Saints who were
desirous of gathering to Zion. An early ordi-
nance passed by the corporation provided that
"all religious sects and denominations should
have free toleration and equal privileges within
the city, and that any person ridiculing or
abusing another on account of his religious
belief, should, on conviction thereof before the
Mayor or Municipal Court, be fined in any
sum not exceeding $500, or imprisoned not ex-
ceeding six months."
	"On the 3d of February ordinances were
passed organizing the Nauvoo Legion and the
University," and one was passed regulating the
sale of intoxicating liquors, with a view to pre-
vent the introduction of drunkenness into the
city. "On the 10th of March the State Legis-
latnre passed 'An act to incorporate the Nau-
voo Agricultural and Manufacturing Associa-
tion in the county of Hancock.'"
	Those who say that the "Mormons" came
out from civilization of their own accord and
desire, to indulge in wickedness, idleness and
degradation, should read and try to under-
stand the truth concerning us. We never
thought of withdrawing from the world until
they compelled us to. We never desired to
leave our homes and the graves of our loved
ones to seek a desolate, barren and secluded
spot like this. No; we desired to dwell in
peace with the world and to benefit all man-
kind. But they would not let us live with
them and enjoy the same liberty and rights
which they were permitted to enjoy with us in
our beautiful city; but we were driven away
from them in a FREE country, and we endured
suffering from fatigue, cold and hunger, and
passed through heartrending scenes which no
pen can describe, to seek a resting place be-
yond the Rocky Mountains upon Mexican soil,
because we loved our religion more than we did
our homes or our lives. We have proved how
we loved it and our husbands and children,
and would to God that every good man and
woman could see the door which is open for
their deliverance, more especially the "down-
trodden women" of the world. Now we are
blessed with homes of our own and an abun-
dance of God's mercies, we invite our good
sisters to come here and to put aside prejudice
and open their eyes and ears and understand
that the women of this Church are the true
Sisters of Charity," for they have no desire but
to benefit the human family, although the
course which is taken towards us is calculated to
tear open the old wounds, reminding us of the
bitter wrongs which have never been redressed;
but we know what a cup of bitterness awaits
those who have persecuted and slain the inno-
cent, and the worst feeling I cherish towards
any one of them is pity, because "they know
not what they do."

To be continued.


MRS. Mary A. Livermore has been tendered
a great many flattering receptions from distin-
guished people in London, Eng.  On account
of the cold, damp weather in that city she has
gone to the sunny hills of Switzerland, where
she hopes to recuperate thoroughly after her
hard winter's lecturing.  She will sail in the
"Scythia," for Boston, on the 20th of August,
making her sojourn in all about three months.
-Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
			WOMAN.

	   ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

		     CONTINUED. 

 Although the life of the lady who is the sub-
ject of this sketch had always been full of labor
and good works, public and private, yet
after entering upon the seventies at a 
time when most people think they must retire
from active duty, her life seems to have been
more continuously occupied with arduous labors
than before.  In October 1875 when prepar-
tions were being made for the great Centennial
Exposition at Philadelphia the Executive De-
partment engaged in that work wrote to Miss
Eliza R. Snow under date of Oct. 29, 1875, an
official letter authorizing her to act as President
of the "Woman's Centennial Executive Com-
mittee" for Utah, and sent such papers and
documents as would aid her in the responsible
undertaking.  To effect the object of preparing
for suitable representation at the exhibition,
required a great deal of management and ac-
cordingly Sister Eliza issued a circular to the
Relief Societies, Young Ladies Associations
and the Women of Utah generally; soliciting
them to prepare "specimens of all useful and 
ornamental home industries of woman's work,
also all natural curiosities of their own collect-
ing etc., etc.  These were all to be forwarded
by the first of March to Mrs. E. D. Gillespie
Pres. Woman's Centennial Executive Com-
mittee at Philadelphia.  From that time she
spared no pains to bring about the desired ar-
rangements. It required more labor and cal-
culation than one might think perhaps, for
there were meetings to be held, letters to be
written to all parts, answers to be made to in-
numberable questions, verbal and by mail, and
many little items to be attended to, and the 
great burden of the responsibility and labor
devolving upon her.  I have often thought it
wonderful in looking back, how she accomplished
so much in that short time.  It proves how suc-
cessful were her methods of reaching the
people.
 During all that year there seemed to be an 
accumulation of labor pressing upon the L. D.
S., women of Utah, and all looking to Sister
Eliza as the head and front of the work, which
caused her to be more sought after and kept her
employed heart and hands, and required her
mind to be drawn out in giving counsel to others.
It was impossible to procure space for Utah to
be properly represented as we had desired, on 
account of the Gentleman's Executive Com-
mittee for Utah postponing their arrangements
for securing space until so late, and therefore
Sister Eliza and the Committee associated with
her deemed it the better plan to send only a
few of the best fabrics and materials to the
Centennial Exhibition, and open a Fair here
at home.  As there were many passing to and
from California and other parts visiting the
Centennial it would be an attraction for such
visitors, as well as a benefit to our own com-
munity.  Accordingly the Constitution Build-
ing was fitted up to display the articles on ex-
hibition.  Sister Eliza had charge of the affair
with some other ladies as assistants who were
valuable aids.  The Fair opened on the fourth
of July 1876 the same as the Centennial Fair.
President Brigham Young made an appropriate
opening address to a large and appreciative
audience.
 The Fair having been formally opened peo-
ple flocked in and for a few days it was crowded
constantly.  There were many things that at-
tracted the attention of strangers and tourists,
and Sister Eliza presiding there as she did with
the grace and dignity of a very queen and yet
with the simplicity of manner that bespeaks at
once rare nobility, made it very interesting for
all who called to see, or to purchase any of the
almost innumerable variety exhibited.
 During that year Sister Eliza conversed
with thousands of casual callers, among whom 
were people of celebrity from different parts of
the world, and in this way she did good mis-
sionary work, and has no doubt scattered the 
seeds of truth in the hearts of many.  On the
24th, of the same month, Pioneer Day, the
citizens of Salt Lake joined those in Ogden
and that vicinity in celebrating the advent of
the pioneers of '47 and Sister Eliza was called
upon to write the address, for that accasion,
which was read by David McKenzie, and was
said to have been one of the best things she
ever wrote, it was patriotic and inspiring; she
was also requested to write a song for the
Ogden choir to open the ceremonies with which
we publish in full.
			HYMN OF PRAISE.
COMPOSED FOR THE OCCASION BY MISS E. B. SNOW.

Great Source of Good- our Father God-
God of Eternity,
Who spread creation's form abroad- 
All praise is due to Thee.

This day in vast assembly met,
All hearts, as one, should raise
In grateful strains, to celebrate
Thy love, and sing Thy praise.

We know Thy voice- we own Thy hand,
We recognize Thy power:
Thy finger pointed to this land,
In persecution's hour.

Thy wisdom, man's unerring guide,
His bark of life to steer-
Thy people's trust, whate'er betide-
Thy wisom led us here.

Thy blessing crown'd our earnest toil,
And made the desert bloom;
And drew the products from the soil,
In this, our mountain home.

To Thee, the highest notes we'll raise- 
The noblest tribute pay-
To Thee devote the sweetest lays,
On this illustr'ous day.

 The Fair, opened by the ladies in Salt Lake
City lasted until the 2d. of September when
Sister Eliza expressed in a Valedictory the
result of the efforts and appreciation. 
 The following paragraph quoted here will
give the reader some idea of the labor.
 "The interest manifested by those who have
visited the Fair has been very gratifying, and
constitutes the most desirable present success.
We have taken pride in exhibiting from day 
to day the beautiful articles of taste and utility
(many of them produced entirely from the ele-
ments of Utah,) manufactured by the skill and
industry of the people of our Territory, and
humbly trust that our united efforts in our
Centennial Exhibition will prove instrunental
in stimulating to greater energies and be pro-
ductive of much good in encouraging home-
industries."
 To promote the growth and establishment of
home-industries among the people, President
Young called a meeting of the Sisters to be
held Oct. 4th, in the Council House, to make
some arrangements to establish a woman's store
for promoting the sale of home manufactures.
The meeting was so large that it was adjourned
to the Old Tabernacle.  Pres. Young not be-
ing able to attend he addressed to the sisters
a letter which was read and commented upon
by his private secretary, 'Elder George Rynolds.
At that meeting an organization was formed by 
electing Eliza R. Snow, President, also a Vice
President, Secretary, Treasurer and four direc-
tors constituting, a complete board of officers
and the organization was called "The Relief
Society Woman's Cooperative Assocation."
			To be continued.


You. cannot sin without sacrifice.-Buxton.

If there is any great or good thing in store
for you; it will not come at the first or second
call.—Emerson.


SOJOURNER TRUTH.
[SELECTED.]
 There are a great many things in the new
history of woman suffrage agitation, great
speeches, great advances of reform—but the
most splendid individual triumph was that of
Sojourner Truth, the Libyan sibyl, when she sa-
ved a Wwoman Suffrage convention from wreck.
 It was a meeting opened to debate,and the men
used to debating rallied in force and quite
abolished the courtesy to "the fair sex."  The
ministers were the worst of the lot, the most
dictatorial and insulting; one claimed that
man’s superior intellect entitled him to superior
privileges; one that Eye brought sin and
death into the world, and was therefore the
servant of man forever; another that the man-
hood of Christ was a sign of the leadership of
man, etc. The women were new to the buisness
and quite unequal to the fight;  they were in
fact ready to break down, get into a passion
and cry. Then, says Mrs. Frances D. Gage,
“slowly from her seat in the corner rose Soj-
ourner, who till now had scarcely lifted her-
head. ‘Don’t let her speak!’ gasped half a
dozen in my ear. She moved slowly and
solemnly to the front,laid her old bonnet at my
feet, and turned her great speaking eyes to me.
She spoke with those eyes piercing the upper-
air like one in a dream.” Hear a few of her
sentences—they have been printed before and
will bear to be printed many times more:
“Dat man ober dar say dat womin needs to
be helped into cahriges and lifted ober ditches
and to hab de best place eberywhar. Nobody
eber helps me into cahriges, or ober mud pud-
dles, or gibs me any best place.” And raising
herself to her full hight and her voice to a pitch
like rolling thunder, she asked, “And an't I a
woman? Look at me. Look at my arm,” (and
she bared her right arm to the shoulder, show-
ing her tremendous muscular power.) “I have
plowed, and planted, and gathered into Barns,
and no man could head me.  And an’t I a
woman?  I could work as much and eat as
much as a man—when I could get it—and bear
de lash as well. And an’t I a woman ? I have
borne 13 children and seen ’em mos' all sold off
to slavery, and when I cried out with my moth-
er's grief, none but Jesus heard me. And an’t
I a woman?
"Den dey talks about dis ting in the head—
what dis dey call it?” (“intellect,” whispered
some one near.) “Dat’s it, honey. What’s
that got to do with wimin’s rights or niggers
rights ? If my cup won’t hold but a pint and
yourn holds a quart, wouldn’t you be mean not
to let me have my little half-measure full ?
“Den, dat little man in black dar, he say
women can’t have as much rights as men cause
Christ wasn’t a woman!  Whar did your Christ
come from ?’ ’With outstretched arms and eyes
of fire, raising her voice louder, she repeated.
“Whar did your Christ come from? From God
and a woman!  man had nothin’ to do with
him!”


THE condition of the Czar is occasioning
great anxiety among the members of the Eng-
lish Royal family, plainly stated his Majesty,
it is feared, is mentally deranged. He suffers
from insomnia, with all the attendant con-
sequences of that disease. His face is described
as wan, and the whilom burly and muscular
frame as shrunken. He cannot eat, and sternly
declines to take exercise or recreation of any
kind, preferring to occupy his room, which is
strongly guarded, while its morbid and shrivel-
led occupant is a prey to the most active
fears.


36	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00 one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Connell
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1881.


[Column 1]

DEATH OF PRESIDENT JOSEPH YOUNG.

	The death of this great and good man occurred
on Saturday morning, July 16, about four o'clock,
at his home in the 18th Ward. Uncle Joseph,
as he was affectionately styled by the people,
had been suffering for the past two months with
weakness and general debility. It was only
natural it should be so at his advanced age. Sev-
eral times during the last year he has been una-
ble to leave home for several days together, and
sometimes not for weeks; still he was bright and
cheerful, glad to see his friends, and all the time
rejoicing in the truths of the Gospel he so dearly
loved. The last time he was out was at the fu-
neral of his niece, Mrs. Fanny Little, wife of
the Mayor, and there he preached an eloquent,
earnest and consoling discourse Brother Young
delighted in comforting and soothing sorrow and
distress, and was particularly gifted in this re-
spect. His heart was always full of blessings,
and his language never seemed to fail in giving
full and free expression to the sentiments of his
soul. He always seemed to have a calm and
peaceful spirit, and was most happily gifted in
imparting that feeling to others.
	It is said that this good man passed away with-
out a struggle or a gasp, and this seems in keep-
ing with his peaceful disposition. An angel of
peace seemed to hover over and attend him al-
ways, and when his time had fully come and the
heavenly escort was in view, his assurance was
no doubt so perfect that in the language of the
poet these words might be significant of his de-
parture to that "other shore,"
			"Sustained and soothed
	By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave,
	Like one that wraps the drapery of his couch
	About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams."
Only Uncle Joseph is not dreaming, he has
passed the ordeal that gives him abundant en-
trance into the mansions of glory, where a host
of friends bade him welcome, and no doubt
shouted hosanna on his arrival.
	Joseph Young, Sen., the subject of this me-
moir, was born April 7, 1797, in Hopkinton, Mid-
dlesex County, Mass, and was the second son of
John Young and Nabbie Howe.
	He received the Gospel while residing in
Canada, and was at that time an earnest and
devoted Methodist preacher. His brother, the
late President Brigham Young, brought him the
glad tidings of the Everlasting Gospel and of the
Latter-day work, and he received it readily and
was very soon after baptized. He gathered with
the Church in Kirtland at a very early period,
and was one of the first Seventies ordained.
February 28, 1835, he was called by the Prophet
Joseph Smith to be the First President of all the
Seventies, which position he held from that time
until his demise. He was one of the famous

[Column 2]

Zion's Camp, which went up to Missouri in 1834,
and endured at that time much privation and
hardship. He was at the horrible massacre at
Haun's Mill, and barely made his escape alive;
on the following day he returned and helped to
bury the dead, although he was one of the most
tender-hearted men who ever lived, yet he as-
sisted at that dreadful burial, the details of which
are too horrifying to mention.
	Brother Young was one of the first settlers in
Nauvoo, where he had a comfortable home and
surroundings, after the persecutions of Missouri,
but was forced to leave it and become again an
exile, in 1846, when the Saints were compelled
to leave their beautiful city in the middle of
winter. He remained at Winter Quarters until
1850, when he crossed the plains with his family
in ox teams, and settled in Salt Lake City, where
he has ever since resided. He has traveled and
preached extensively in the Territory, and in
1870 visited the British Isles, and preached
in the old world. He was greatly beloved by
the people everywhere, and was one of those
lovable dispositions that always attract those
with whom they are associated. He was a benev-
olent and merciful man, full of kindness and
good works. He was full of integrity to the
cause he had espoused, and never wearied of
proclaiming its principles.
	He has lived a life of virtue, purity and up-
rightness, and his loss will be sincerely mourned
by thousands. He had attained the advanced
age of eighty-four years, three months and nine
days, and in the language of Scripture, "has
gone as a shock of corn fully ripe," to receive
the crown prepared for the faithful who serve
God and keep His commandments.
	The funeral of Pres. Joseph Young was held
in the large Tabernacle in this city on Tuesday,
July 19, at eleven o'clock a. m., and was attended
by thousands of the Latter-day Saints. The
services were conducted by Elder Horace S. El-
dredge, who had been intimately associated with
him in his office.
	There was music by the brass band, followed
by the choir (Uncle Joseph was passionataly fond
of music). Prayer by Apostle F. D. Richards.
Singing. The speakers were Pres. Wilford
Woodruff, Pres. George Q. Cannon and Pres.
John Taylor, all expressing the highest regard
for the deceased, enumerating his many excel-
lent qualities of heart and mind, and extolling
his integrity to the Gospel. There was solemn
music by the Careless Orchestra, the choir sang,and the benediction was pronounced by Pres.
Joseph F. Smith, which concluded the ceremo-
nies at the Tabernacle.
	The casket containing the remains was pro-
fusely ornamented with exquisite flowers, artis-
tically arranged in crosses, crowns, anchors and
bouquets, and a sheaf of wheat fully ripe, em-
blematical of the full life, was bound with a
white ribbon, on which was printed in gold let-
ters the appropriate words, "Well done, good
and faithful servant." Above it was a sickle
decorated with pure, white flowers. It was a
beautiful tribute to the memory of the de-
parted.
	Brother Young leaves a large family, who will
miss his fatherly counsel and affection, but they
have a noble example to follow, and may well
be proud of such an illustrious man.
	It is impossible to do justice to the life and
labors of such a man as was President Joseph
Young in words, language fails, but we deeply
reverence his memory, and feel assured it will
be ever fresh in the hearts of the Saints. Let
us who remain emulate his virtues and strive
to attain that heavenly patience, resignation
and humility that characterized the life of
Uncle Joseph Young.





LADY OFFICERS.

	Having been often inquired of in regard to
the names of ladies holding offices in the Presid-
ing Board of Latter-day Saint women's organi-
zations, it has been thought proper to publish
them, for the benefit of those living at a dis-
tance, that no mistakes need occur.
	RELIEF SOCIETY CENTRAL BOARD.
Eliza R. Snow Smith, President.
Zina D. Young,				Counselors.
Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary.
M. Isabella Horne, Treasurer.

	Y.L.M.I.A. CENTRAL BOARD.
Elmina S. Taylor, President.
Maggie Y. Taylor,
Mattie Horne,					Counselors,
Louie Wells, Secretary.
Fannie Y. Thatcher, Treasurer.

	PRIMARY ASSOCIATION CENTRAL BOARD.
Louie Felt, President,
Matilda M. Barrett,			Counselors.
Clara C. Cannon,
Lillie Freeze, Secretary Minnie Felt, Treasurer.


[Column 1]

	HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE latest news from the Executive Mansions
is favorable to the recovery of the wounded
President. There has been great anxiety on ac-
count of the relapse in his condition.
	ABOUT the middle of September there will be
a Children's Fair held in this city. It is ex-
pected that all the Primary Associations in the
County will assist in making it a success.
	SISTER Elizabeth Ann Whitney, better known
among the Latter-day Saints as Mother Whit-
ney, who has been very ill at the residence of
her daughter, Mrs. Groo, in the 9th Ward, is
much better.
	SISTERS M. Isabella Horne and Elmina S.
Taylor attended the Quarterly Conference of Re-
lief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Asso-
ciations of Morgan Stake, held at Morgan City,
Saturday and Sunday, July 30 and 31.
	THIS is Election Day, when it is expected all
native-born or naturalized citizens interested in
the best welfare of the people of Utah, will go
to the polls and cast a vote for the People's
Ticket. Women should show their appreciation
of the franchise by turning out en masse to the
polls.
	IN regard to publishing Relief Society reports
and minutes, we wish to say, there is not space
for anything more than Stake Conference re-
ports, unless it is a new organization or re-
organization or change of some officers. It
must be clear to every one that with all the sev-
eral organizations and their multitude of
branches, it is impossible to give them all space
for representation. If there is a large gathering,
or special meeting, that is an exception. The
same will apply to the Y. L. M. I. A. and Pri-
mary Associations, except when Primaries have
quarterly meetings or Conferences, in their re-
spective wards; we might give space to such
minutes, or synopsis of meetings.
	A MISSIONARY in Alabama, writing to Sister
Hannah Cornaby after perusing her "Autobiog-
raphy and Poems," says concerning it, "It gave
me much pleasure and brought many scenes to
my mind; sometimes solemn thoughts, then a
smile, again the tears would fill my eyes, &c.
&c. Altogether I feel to say I was very much
entertained; it was like a spring of pure water
in a thirsty land; it made me think of "home


[Column 1]

sweet, sweet home," the home of the Saints of
Prophets and Apostles of God—noble men and
noble women, sons and daughters of Zion."
	No person can read this little book without
feeling better for it, and every honest person who
reads it, must be assured that the writer is a
Saint of God, full of integrity, whatever her pe-
culiar faith may be. To the Latter day Saint
it is full of comfort, and we heartily commend
the book to the people, and would also say that
we believe the book to be a good one to send
abroad. By all means put it into the hands of the
young people of this Church. The Y. L. and
Y. M. Associatious who are getting libraries
should not fail to have this excellent work upon
their list.
	ON Sunday, July 24, we had the pleasure of
attending the services of the dedication of the
Fifteenth Ward Hall of Worship. It is a hand-
some structure of modern architecture, and is
elegantly finished and furnished in every particu-
lar. The Relief Society of the Ward, we are
informed, assisted in the furnishing. It
has large gothic windows with stained glass,
which throw a beautiful light into the apart-
ment; the chandeliers are very handsome, tire
stand is nicely fitted up and is quite spacious;
at either side, upon the same platform, are seats
for officers, or places for reporters' tables. Alto-
gether it is the most unique Hall we have seen
in the city. The members of the Ward have
been dilligent and energetic in getting it com-
pleted and meeting all the expenses of building.
	The dedicatory services commenced at 10
o'clock. Opened by singing, "Softly beams the
sacred dawning." The dedicatory prayer was
earnest and fervent, offered by Pres. George Q.
Cannon. The choir sang "This house we dedi-
cate to Thee." Pres. John Taylor then ad-
dressed the congregation upon the creative
power of the Almighty, and His authority in
the earth, and the necessity of obedience to Him
and His laws. Made reference to the pre-exis-
tence, and also the glorious exaltation which
awaited the faithful behind the vail.
	Elder John Clark read the report of the build-
ing committee, stating that two years previous to
that very day the foundation of the house was
commenced, and now it was completed and free
from debt—at a final cost of $10,644.75.
	Pres. George Q. Cannon made a few remarks,
blessed the people for their liberality, and said
God would bless them. Choir sang the anthem,
"Jehovah's Praise," in which Mrs. Maggie Hull
sang a solo very sweetly, and a duet with Mrs.
Sarah O. Langford, their voices blending harmo-
niously and filling the house with melody. Bene-
diction by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	LADY LECTURERS—Sisters Zina D. Young,
widow of the late President Brigham Young,
and Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson expect to leave this
city on Saturday, the 20th inst., for the Eastern
States. These ladies will speak on the platform,
presenting the Mormon question from a woman's
standpoint. This will be a new departure, as
heretofore "Mormon" women have not gone out
into the world to defend the principles of their
faith. Many inquiries have been made in ref-
erence to the women of Utah socially, politically
and religiously, this they propose to present in
its true light. Mrs. Zina D. Young has been
connected with the Church from an early period
lived in Kirtland, Missouri and Nauvoo, was
with the Saints in the exodus, and has been in-
timately acquainted with all the leading men
and women, as well as the details of Church
history. She is an attractive and pleasing nat-
ural speaker. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson is an ex-
perienced lecturer, having been in the lecture
field several years before she came to Utah. She
is a woman of fine ability, superior education,

[Column 2]

and is in every way qualified to do justice to the
subjects she may present.  These sisters go with
the approval of the highest quthority, and we
trust will be sustained by the faith and prayers
of the people.
	Sister Zina D. Young will visit her old home
and relatives in the State of New York, and also
the home of her forefathers in New Hampshire,
and gather up genealogical records of her pro-
genitors. Dr. Ferguson expects to attend the 
clinics at Bellevue Hospital, New York during
the coming session of that institution, in order
to obtain a thorough knowledge of the intest
surgical improvements. These sisters are pecu-
liarly well adapted to the mission they are ex-
pected to fill. They are women full of intelli-
gence and thorougly aquainted with "Mor-
mon" themes. There has been so much misrep-
resentation on this subject that it seems only
just and right that our sisters should speak in
their own defense, and place truth in the field,
where error has so long held away.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OBITUARY.

	The Y. L. M. I. A. of Marriott Ward has sus-
tained a great loss in the death of Mary A.,
daughter of Silas H. and Almina Tracy, who
was born in Weber County April 21, 1857, and
was baptized in the year 1867. Her life was one
of usefulness; she was ever ready to do good,
assisting her parents, helping the poor, and
obeying the counsels of those placed over her in
the Lord. She has been circumspect in all the
walks of life, and consequently above reproach.
She held the office of Assistant Secretary of our
Association, was also an efficient teacher in the
Sunday School, which offices she faithfully filled
until her sickness (consumption) forbade her
attendance. She had been through the House
of the Lord, and received her blessings therein.
Also had been baptized for about thirty of her
relatives. Her life was filled up with purity and
kindness. She endured her long and severe
sufferings with great fortitude, and passed peace-
fully away at her home on the 8th of July, 1881,
aged 24 years, 2 months and 17 days. Her fu-
neral was largely attended, and her remains
were followed to their last resting place in the
Ogden cemetery by a numerous concourse of
relatives and friends. The young ladies decked
her coffin with beautiful wreaths of flowers, of
varied hue, as a token of their respect and high
esteem for their departed friend.
	FRANClS PARRY.


[Column 1]

AMANDA SMITH
[CONCLUDED]
﻿
	Sister Smith has not only been a woman of
great faith and heroism, but she has always been
public-spirited and philanthropical, and on many
occasions rendered efficient aid to others under
trying circumstances, though she earned her
own support with the help of her little boys.
	On the 24th of January 1834, a number of
ladies met together to consider the importance
of organizing a society for the purpose of making
clothes for the Indians and other charitable work,
which was properly organized Feb. 9th. Sister
Smith was one of the officers of the Society,
which resulted in much temporal good being
accomplished. At the time of the reorganiza-
tion of the Relief Society, Sister Smith being a
member of the 12th Ward and known to be a
woman of ability and enterprise as well as charti-
able work, was chosen and set apart by the Bish-
op as First Counselor to the President of the 12th
Ward Society, Mrs. Priscilla M. Staines. She
was an indefatigable laborer in this capacity for
many years, among the poor and sick minister-
ing to both their spiritual and temporal needs.
She never shrank from any duty however ardu-
ous, while her health permitted her to fill the
position. In the hour of death she was always
equal to the emergency encouraging those who
were called to part with their friends and rela-
tives, pointing out to them the glorious hope of

[Column 2]

the Latter-day Saints and in that tender
motherly way which only women of intense
human sympathies can do, softening and alle-
viating the pangs of poignant grief. Thus has
her long and useful life been filled with good
work, and now as the evening time of life appro-
aches, she is still armed with sublime courage
and rich in the faith of the glorious Gospel of
the Son of God.
	In consequence of the many harships
she endured through the persectuions in
Missouri which were heaped upon her and
her family by a relentless mob, her health was
undermined, and as years increased, infirmities
settled upon her which rendered her unable to
retain the position she had held in the Relief
Society. She was honorably released and will
ever be remembered by the Bishop and his Coun-
selors and the members of the ward for her be-
nevolence and self-denial in ministering to the
unfortunate.
	Sister Smith has much to rejoice over even in
her present affiction for she has raised her family
in the principles of the Gospel of Christ and the
fear of God, and they remain true and steadfast
to the faith of the Latter-day work. A good wo-
man who has reared to manhood and womanhood
a large family almost without a father's help is
certainly worthy of commendation and must
have great satisfaction in her life and labor. No
higher compliment, in our opinion could be
paid a woman than that she had succeeded in
raising a good and honorable family; this Sister
Smith has accomplished. She has a comfortable
home in her old age and can "sit under her own
vine and fig tree" figuratively spekaing, the re-
sult of her own hard labor. She has been for
more than fifty years a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of latter-day Saints, having been
baptized April 1, 1831,—by Elder Simeon D.
Carter.
	There are very few now living who have a
record of more than half a century in this
Church. Sister Smith has endeared herself to a
very large number of the Latter-day Saints, who
are ever read to do her honor for her faith,
integrity, and they many estimable qualitites which
have beautified and adorned her life.
	On the fiftieth anniversary of her baptism,
Mrs. M. A. Freeze addressed a poem to Sister
Amanda Smith, giving a history in verse of
some important events in her life, but it is too long
for publication here. She most appropriately
styles her a veteran in Zion. Such exppressions
of friendship are comforting to those who have
labored hard and long in assisting to establish
the kingdom of God upon the earth. Her testi-
mony of the massacre at Haun's mill in Missouri
is that of an eye witness and participator. In-
deed she might with all propriety be termed the
heroine of that fearful tragedy, for her sublimity
of courage surpassed that of ordinary mortals.
God was with her in his power in her hour of sev-
ere trouble, and she was indeed a host in herself.
In listening even to the recital of those fearful
days, one's heart almost stands still, strong men
tremble and grow pale, and women weep. In
conclusion we would say may heaven's choicest
blessings rest upon her the remainder of her
days, here upon the earth, her heart be filled with
joy and peace ontinually and may she continue
to bear a faithful testimony to the truth and
live until she has accomplished all she has ever
anticipated for the living and the dead.
	E. B. W.


Y. L. M. I. A.

	The Quarterly Conference of Y. L. M. I. A. Salt
Lake Stake was held in the Assembly Hall, Sat-
urday June 8th, 1881. Mrs. M. A. Freeze pre-
siding. Singing. Prayer by Mrs. M. I. Horne,
singing, Minutes of previous Conference read
and accepted, verbal reports given. First Ward
represented by one of the Counselors, 2nd ward
by Miss McGregor, 3d, ward Mrs. Della W. Eardly
9th ward Mrs. Maggie Groo, 10th ward Mrs.
Joslen, 11th ward Louie White, 15th ward Miss
S. E. Russell, 19th ward Caroline Raleigh, Sugar
House ward Mrs. Harriet Hardy, Taylorsville
one of the young ladies. Pres. Freeze said we
used to recite in school "Large oaks from little
acorns grow;" and thinking of this I gather
encouragement. In one of the revelations we
read that if a man labor all his days and save
one soul how great will be his joy. We have
saved more than one. I do not feel to relax my
efforts but to renew them. I would again urge
that our sisters ask their Bishops to aid us. We
have Sister J. S. Richards from Ogden here, we
may receive good instruction from her. Let us
give her our faith and prayers."


[Column 1]
	Sister Richards. "I have a testimony though
I did not expect to be called upon to-day. We
all want to be favorably regarded by our Father.
I have never had any doubts as to this being
the Gospel of the Son of God. If any opportun-
ities to testify to are neglected, I set a bad exam-
ple to the young. I feel a little grieved to see
so few here, for I know how many have been
reared with fond hopes in this direction, and
yet how few are realized; I have been pleased to
hear the reports, to learn the determination on
the part of the few to continue. How pleasing
this is to us. Every day I feel a renewed zeal to
live my religion. We wish to do all in our power
to guard our young people. How much pleasure
we could have enjoyed if we had had these
organizations in our youth. I accost every girl
I meet if I know her, and ask her if she attends
her meetings If she is working out and cannot,
I advise her to work for less where she can have
the privilege of going to meeting. Let us live so
that every day's labor will be guided by our
Father. Let us do all we can to encourage the
young ladies in their Associations. How I
would have rejoiced to see all who should have
been here. I wish to listen to the sisters; it is
two years since I attended your Conference. I
had hoped to attend the Primary Conference but
found I was too late."
	Sister Nancy A. Clark, Pres. Y. L. M. I. A.
Davis Stake, said she regretted to see so scant a
representation; "it is not my prerogative to find
fault but it seemes to me that the parents should
insist on their children attending their Associa-
tions. This is not a matter of choice or taste,
but a command to us as much as to the brethren.
We must practice what we preach. For the lack
of knowledge, and by the bands of tradition we
seem to be fettered and falter in going forward.
It should be our aim to carry on the labor ap-
pointed to us. God has given us each a talent,
if we have only one, greater zeal is required lest
we lose even that. He who has ten talents has
acquired others by faithfully improving one.
We will come forward in the last day lacking
those blessings we might have received. Some
seem to consider these meetings [-]nnecessaay.
We look to the commands of the present oracles.
That we may understand these things and teach
our children is my prayer. Let us persevere and
we will accomplish many good things. I can
give a good report of Davis Stake, we have good
Conferences and meetings. There is work for
every one in Zion to combat evil." Pres. Joseph
E. Taylor: "I am pleased to meet with as many
as are present. I did expect to find the house
full but I am not going to find fault. Sister
Clark has touched on many topics. One is, 'is
there any work for the Sisters?' Yes! To define
that work would require more time than I have
to occupy with you this afternoon. To attempt
anything outside of that for which weare by
nature qualified would be a mistake; but to
follow our individuality, we shall satisfy our-
selves, our associates and our Father. If we are
laboring to build up Zion, we have a right to
claim the aid and blessings of heaven. Is there
a field for the sisters among the youth of Zion?
There is! There are more to-day here who love
[---] and extremes than there were five
[---]rs ago. I have been questioned as to my
[---] on this. The unseen influences that
[---]o potent, they are on the side of evil
[---]owerful. We find a command, "let your
[---]ts be plain, and the workmanship of your
[---]nds." Any departure from the will of
[---], in any person, young or old is destruc-
[---]n discard his word in part we lessen
[---]n upon Him. In this there is a large
[---]	*	*	*	The tendency to immor-
[---] increasing. In this respect the in-
[---]s of evil are tireless. These labors are in
[---]y with the nature of evil.
[---] A. M. Cannon: "I feel gratified in being
[---]tted to address you. What I have heard
[---]ratified me much. What I may say I hope
[---]be for good. I might from my own exper-
[---]give some advice. There is work for the
[---]rs, man is not without the woman in the
[---]d nor the woman without the man. A joint
[---]mand was laid down on both. It would be
[---]ll if young women would encourage their
[---]sbands in their duties; she would thus help
[---]tablish his position in the Church. I know
[--]here women have used an influence against
[-]aying tithing and other rules, these families
have drifted backwards. There is the objection
to plain attire, that the best-dressed girls receive
the attention of the gentlemen. I would
prefer my daugghters to marry working
men, no matter how poor, rather than be-
come the wives of men who only seek employ-
ment as professional peddlers. We should seek to

[Column 2]
promote industries among us, I would like to see
knitting resumed. I wish that some of these
Associations would develop some of these old
talents. These cardboard ornaments are a pre-
vailing industry in Zion but it is hard to find a
pair of home-made socks. I would like to see
these industries encouraged in Zion. Look after
the boys." Referred to finding the boys smoking;
to mothers driving their children into the street
instead of drawing them round them, advised
mothers not to screen the faults of their children
from their fathers. Teach your children to respect
the father's instructions, there are enjoyments
which are also industries; you will find the sat-
isfacation with plain clothes and moderate means
will be the path to prosperity. Look at the
Saints from Swtizerland and other countries of
hard labor, and see them gather the comforts of
life around them. &c.
	Pres. M. A. Freeze: "I have enjoyed this
meeting, I have been impressed to urge the As-
sociations to use an influence to stem the tide of
extravagence. It is time, it has gone too far. I
heard Pres. Young say an angel would pass by
those who were fashionably and foolishly dressed
if one came to visit the earth. We will have
written reports next Conference. Conference
adjourned for three months, sang "Come thou
fount of every blessing." Benediction by Pres.
Joseph E. Taylor.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ELEVENTH WARD PRIMARY.

CHILDREN'S FAIR.

	The Qurterly meeting of the Primary Asso-
ciation of the 11th Ward, this city, was held
Wednesday, July 20, in the Ward Meeting
House. At 2 o'clock p. m. the house was
opened for the exhibition of the children's
work, which has all been made for the chil-
dren's County Fair, which will be held in this
city during the month of September. The
articles exhibited were made by children from
four to thirteen years old, and were indeed
wonderful. One boy ten years old made a neat
little cradle for a doll; one 11 a mouse trap;
an ingenious jumping-jack was made by a boy
12, and a boy nine years old a handsome pic-
ture frame, made of heavy brown paper, cut
and folded, then varnished, giving it the ap-
pearance of a leather frame. Then there were
a variety of mottoes, worked in perforated
card board, comb cases, letter cases, card re-
ceivers, tidies. mats, pincushions, wax flowers,
wool flowers, hair flowers; one little girl who
has but one arm had made a child's stocking
with only her left hand; a little girl 4 1/2 years
old had worked a very pretty motto and cross
all herself. Then there were frosted cakes and
pie made by little girls seven years old, and
vegetables of almost every kind raised by
boys nine and ten. There was a handsome
piece of ornamentation in plaster made by a boy
12 years old.
	The meeting was conducted by Mrs. Louie
Felt, President of the Association, and there
were 145 children, all under 12, and nearly all
under 10 years old, yet the order was excellent.
Mrs. Felt has a peculiar faculty in managing
children. Exercises commenced with singing
"O my Father," &c. Minutes read and ac-
cepted. Essay on "Kindness," Lawrence
Berg. Recitation, May Dangerfield. Song,
"A Mormon Boy," Willie Tucket. Recitations,
George Colum and Charlie Tucket. Song,
Nellie and Ettie Penrose and little Louie Felt.
Three little girls sang "Gather up the sun-
beams." Essay, Susie Simons. Dialogue by
two little girls. Song by Janie Cameron and
Hattie Felt. 18 children recited in concert,
"Gather them into the fold."
	Sister Zina D. Young then addressed the
children, speaking principally of the Savior.
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. S. Clawson, Mrs. E.
Howard and Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson each made
a few remarks. Mrs. Felt then talked a little


to the children, and the congregation joined
with the children in singing, “Lord dismiss us
with thy blessing.” Benediction by Johnnie
Sears.
 This is one of the best Associations in the
city, or in fact anywhere, and we have taken
pains to publish considerable about it, in order
that those who live at a distance might have
an idea of the routine of exercises, and per-
haps be benefitted in the management of their
respective organizations.
	E. B. W.


THE DAYS WE LIVE IN.

	In conversation with a friend not long since,
I was asked if we did not read in Acts of the
Apostles, 2d chapter and 17th verse, that God
said in the last days He would pour out His
Spirit upon all flesh, and if I did not think
these were the days alluded to; "for," said he,
"was there ever a time when so many inven-
tions were attained to, as within the last fifty
years? Is there any acconnt in history where
so much has been accomplished in the same
length of time?" I think when we reflect we
could readily say the same. Believing as we
do that God our Father is the Author of all
science and the head of all intelligence, then,
accordingly, a great work must be done in
these days. This seems entirely consistent with
the plan of the Latter-day work. But we are
told that such or such a person had power to
become great, or skilled in invention, yet he
was an infidel—he did not believe in God, he
did not acknowledge Him, because he did not
know Him, never having seen Him, etc. I
would ask, did he know his earthly parents?
Is it not faith in what he has been told, besides
some marks of attention shown, which con-
vinced him that they were his parents. Chil-
dren are not capacitated to know this. Their
parents have a knowledge upon this subject,
but the children walk by faith. Even so is it
with man as regards the Heavenly Father. He
has a knowledge of us and will aid and assist
us, if we will have faith. If we have no faith
He will bless His children in laudable desires,
in studying and in gaining intelligence of His
works, and in this way we will learn something
of His great wisdom and power. Besides, we
read in holy writ that the gifts and callings of
God are without repentance. But can we
draw near to, and become acquainted with our
Heavenly Father without repentance and faith?
I think not. This is the pattern our Savior set
for us. He kept His Father’s laws, which is
an example for us. Those laws we believe are
superior to all other laws.
	It seems that a reckless spirit is ripening in
these days, which brings confusion and strife,
and many young people suppose that a person
is not manly unless he possesses this daring
and reckless, independent, uncontrollable spirit.
Watch the result, and then ask where is the
wisdom in cultivating such wayward feelings?
I would rather adhere to that spirit which
brings peace, although I must sacrifice my own
feelings by doing so. It is better to be subject
to laws and regulations, than to pursue a reck-
less, independent course; and shows more and
greater nobility of character.
	What has the would-be assassin gained by
shooting President Garfield? A reckless,
wicked spirit, one not subject to law or order,
must have taken possession of Guitteau, and
he was under its control; and there seems to be
many wicked spirits abroad in the earth, who
would destroy the good and the pure were it in
their power. What had President Garfield
done to deserve such a fate? Was he tyran-
nical? No, not that we can learn. He had
not been in office long enough to show this trait
of character, had he possessed it. While visit-
iting our city and our people, we formed quite


a different-opinion-of Gen. Garfield. Those
who made his acquaintance thought him to be
a man, of sound mind and good principles, one
who would not condescend to a mean action.
'Tis true, he made some harsh remarks in his
message about what the fate of the Mormons
would be, but we cherished not the least ill-
feeling towards him on account of that-these
days are in many respects like those in which
the Gospel was preached in the days of Jesus,
and a strange fancy took possession of my mind
upon reading the President's message; it was
this: Is not President Garfield in the same po-
sition that Pilate was in the days of Jesus, and
are not his feelings the same-to please the
people? This may well be called a strange
fancy, because he has not expressed his feelings
in this way; but it is my impression, and I
might almost say faith.
	The spirit of daring and recklessness mani-
fested by Guitteau is what will bring destruc-
tion and desolation, sorrow and distress upon
the earth; and how much better for men to
cultivate the spirit of peace and humility and
gentleness, than to sow the seeds of discord
and anarchy and contention. Our lives are
frail at best, easily snatched from us; good men
and women would rather die than bring a blot
upon their character, or prove disloyal to their
integrity in a just cause. Such persons are
pleasing in the sight of God.
	We as a people feel that we are in the hands
of God, and we acknowledge His goodness and
power. He knows the frailties of the human
family, and will cause all things to work to-
gether for good to those who love Him and are
called according to His purpose to serve Him,
and who are trying to keep His command-
ments.
	But says one, "Did the Savior teach polyga-
my? I do not read that He has ever spoken
upon this subject." I would reply, it was a
custom of the Jews anciently, when they were
a nation.  Our Savior denounced sin in all its
forms, but never spoke upon plural marriage,
which should be a testimony that it is not sin.
Undoubtedly He knew if people believed and
practised the laws given to govern His kingdom,
they could live in any position without strife
and confusion, because these laws require genu-
ine love, and a person cannot be a Saint with-
out that. Is not plural marriage a good test
whereby to prove who can love his neighbor as
himself? and also who can deal out even-
handed justice to those under their care? Those
who can do these things are godlike, and de-
 serve to be loved and revered. They are the
nobility of the earth. A people who will gov-
ern themselves by the best rules given to man,
are in my opinion of true noble birth, although
born in polygamy. The Savior's lineage is
traced direct to this form of marriage, and He
never denounced it as unholy or impure.
When I express these views and sentiments to
others, I find their feelings are in every respect
the same as those of your friend and sister in
the Gospel of Christ.
					M. E. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NATURE'S BEAUTIES

THE MANTI ROCKS.

	Many years ago a large number of beautiful
ornaments were made from a rock that is found
at Gibraltar; it was marked in the prettiest
stripes of all sorts of colors, and as no mineral
had been found like it, it received the name of
"Gibraltar Rock." It is a very compact and
easily worked substance, and thousands of or-
naments and trinkets were made of it, which
were sold very cheap. The mineral is Calcite,
a lime rock, and is technically called Aragonite,
its mottled figures and bandings being caused
by the infiltration of water containing coloring
matter, while the rock was forming.


Now, there is a formation almost exactly like
this “Gibraltar Rock, found at Manti, in San-
pete County; and there are other beautiful
rocks found in many of our canons and caves.
Suppose that our youth were to employ their
time in collecting them, and even in manu-
facturing them into useful articles, such as
ink-stands, watch-stands, paper weights, trink-
ets and other fancy goods, they would sell, and
a branch of business could be opened up that
would be remunerative after a time. Such
kind of light wares and fancy articles are made
in many of the old cities, and thousands of
people are supported by such industries.
	"What can I buy here of Utah make?" This
is the constant inquiry of the strangers who
visit our city. These people want little things
to take with them as mementoes of the place,
just as when toursits go to the cities that are
famous in other places. Why, there is no city
better known than that of Salt Lake; "Can't
we get some fancy things as a present from
Salt Lake?" asked a party of ladies.
	Yes, ladies, there are some pieces of granite
from the Temple we are building here. These
were taken, but had a very little labor been
expended upon them they would have sold
readily, and the tourists would have been bet-
ter pleased.
	Who would believe it? fancy goods made of
gypsum in England; pretty rocks from Lake
Superior; paper-weights made of "California
Marble," are sold in this city to strangers. And
the prettiest minerals, some of the most skilful
artizans in the world!		AVONDALE.


WISDOM.

	Wisdom is what we should all have; it is very
needful and desirous and folks cannot aspire
in this world to what they could without it, and
I think the Lord is anxious, we should learn
all that we possibly can in order to serve him
more acceptably. But there are people good,
honest, honorable folks who know but very
little and do not seem to appreciate intelli-
gence. Their childhood has perhaps been neg-
lected by their parents, and now that they have
grown to manhood or grown to be women, they
have to work hard for their daily bread and
perhaps have families that need their attention
and care. Do you think that the Lord has
forgotten them? No! He thinks just as much of
them as He does of the learned. It is not edu-
cation alone that makes the man or woman; it
all depends upon the use it is put to. Now for
instance there are some who you might say are
all education; I know some of that class my-
self; all they can do is to be waited upon and
lounge around and talk; oh yes, they talk very
nice, but they would not work a day to save
one's life. Such milk and water folks I think
are a very great distance from our Heavenly
Father's ideas of intelligence, a much greater
distance than those who know less, that are
honest, industrious, earnest and true. Though
some folks intimate that not to have much ed-
ucation is an unpardonable crime. I think
folks that are so silly as to talk so, had better
think a little longer before they speak. There
is no excuse for children to go unschooled now
a days, they can be educated now, and it is
a most excellent thing. I am sure thirty years
ago when we first came here it was very differ-
ent, we had to work hard to raise something to
eat, and get comfortable homes. It is a good
thing to have sound sense, industry and honesty
for a foundation for a good education, or else
your time and money will be wasted; and you
will come out in the end worse off than those
that have the foundation but have not the learn-
ing, but would have improved the advantages for
education if they had the chance; some will be
like the butterflies, make a gaudy show for a


short time and then pass away without having
anything left as a token of remembrance.
God gives wisdom and knowledge to all who
are honest in heart; and at the judgment day
those who are termed by some aspiring people
low and ignorant will arise and shine.
							   C.S.G.


JESSE BURNS
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONCLUDED.

	Minnie staid on with the girls about two
years, when, her hero coming, she gave herself
to his keeping.
	She wrote for her father's consent to the mar-
riage but he treated the matter lightly sending
her no means as she thought he would for so
important an event. She was deeply grieved
to be so ignored, the more so as she could only
infer that it was due to his wife's influence.
On marrying she removed to another county
and for many years saw very little of the girls
who married and settled at Salt Lake.
	Her mother came to live with her, and after
awhile accepted the proposals of a man whose
first wife was dead, his children were grown up,
and shortly after married; she lived with him
eighteen years, and at the age of sixty-four, sur-
rounded by her husband, and three daughters
she passed to the better world, one of her last
hopes being that Jesse would meet her there.
	She died in full faith of the Gospel, and ex-
pectation of a resurection with the just.
	She often said "everything would work to-
gether for good to those who loved God, and
kept his commandments."
	Jesse meantime gave his wife great uneas-
ness by willing the hotel to his children.  It
was her intention to get it into her own hands
for the benefit of herself and her brothers and
sisters, she having no children made them her
special charge.
	After Minnie's marriage herself and sister
were entirely ignored except by an occasional
letter from her father. He felt very bitter to-
wards the Church and towards Mary and the
children. His wife made determined efforts to
gain her point, which resulted in sending him
deeper in the slough of intoxication. As men
always do who use liquor to excess, he vainly
thought it would make life more endurable, but
it rather blinded his intellect, until she, by her
scheming brought things to a crisis. The hotel
was mortgaged and finally sold. The will
burned, and all Jesse's available means was
laid out on the farm. He went to the Sand-
wich Islands where he remained several years;
Mrs. Burns in the mean time making herself
a home in San Francisco. He sent her money
from time to time, but they seldom met. There
was no harmony of feeling existing between
them or sympathy such as should influence
husband and wife.
	After living in this way for several years and
squandering the fine property which he had
amassed, she died of a lingering and painful
disease.
	Jesse lived a few years longer and died
alone in San Francisco at the age of seventy,
and but for the kindness of his friends, would
have been laid in a pauper's grave.
	And now patient reader if you have followed
this little narrative to a close; and listened to
the trials of two loving, generous hearts, that
ever beat truly for each other; you will see how
time and circumstances could so blend, that
they could finish their lives in separate ways.
This is a true story and I have given it no ficti-
tious coloring.


As I reflect on the circumstnces of their
lives, and see Mary's children honorable and
respected, filling happy homes, and send my
mind to that far off land, the center of so many
bright romances and bitter disappointments, and
think of the lonely old man, whose late years
were filled with bitterness and sorrow, and re-
flect on what was and what might have been,
I am led to wonder of the hand of an overruling
Providence guided the life of Mary Burns, or,
"Was it Fate?"
	By the author of Pipsy Papers &c.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
				----
	A COMET is now visible in Australia. It is
believed to be identical with that of 1861.
	Mexico is undergoing a wonderful trans-
formation at the hands of American enterprise
and capital.  It is estimated that in the in-
credible short space of seven months, $78,000,
000 has been invested in railway and mining
enterprises.
	THE PRINCE OF WALES AND THE POOR:--
Arrangements for the opening of the Maryle-
bone Workhouse Infirmary, London, having
now been made, the Prince and Princess of
Wales will attend for the purpose of perform-
ing the ceremony.  A guard of honor, composed
of the West Middlesex Volunteers, will be
mounted at the main entrance to the infirmary,
and after the address has been presented to the
Prince the Bishop of London will offer up
prayer.  The infirmary benig declared open, an
inspection of the building will be made by the
Royal visitors.
	The Woman Suffrage History is receiving
extended notice from both the secular and
religious press.  It is almost universally con-
ceded that the work is a capable, necessary
and important one, and that its editors have
performed it in a spirit of fairness, as well as
of high literary merit.  It is also generally
conceded by the reviewers that the time had
arrived in which such a work was necessary,
and that in preserving such "an arsenal of
facts" in regard to one of the great moral and
political questions of the day, its editors have
done a work of rare historical value.--Ex.
	MR. Edwin Booth drew a handsome sum
from the Lyceum exchequer for his recent en-
gagement at the theater; but it is not correct
that he recieved [-]2,000. The arrangement
was that the American actor should take [-]60
for every performance, and as there was
twenty-one representations of "Othello," his
share of the proceds amounted in all to [-]1,
260. The success of Mr. Irving's experiment
should warrant its repetition, and the public
will be glad if in the course of the next year or
two, Mr. Booth resumes that position at the
Lyceum which has so greatly raised his reputa-
tion in this country.


ENGLAND DEMOCRATS, FOR WO-
MAN SUFFRAGE.

	Attempts are being made in England to or-
ganize a new party which shall be entirly in-
dependent of both liberals and conservatives,
A delegate meeting of some 200 representat-
ives of metropolitan and provincial radical
clubs and associations has just been held in
London, and a common platform agreed on;
to wit, (1) adult (i.e. male and female) suffrage
(2) equal constituencies; (3) paid members; (4)
bribery to be made felony; (5) home rule for
Ireland; (6) abolition of the House of Lords;
(7) nationalization of the land. Miss Helen
Taylor, step daughter of the late John Stuart
Mill, an active member of the London school
board, spoke very ably in favor of the female
franchise; while Mr. Justin McCarthy, M. P.,
the novelist and historian, contrived to secure


"legislative independence for Ireland." No-
body knew exactly what the comforting phrase
"nationalization of the land" meant, but it
evidently smacked of revolution, and that was
recommendation enough. One or two stray
individualists, disciples of Herbert Spencer, beg-
ged for a definition, but they were promptly
ruled out of order. This section of ultra liberals
will henceforth be known as "the democrats."
—Ex.


MISCELLANEOUS. 

	SOLITUDE is the audience chamber of God.
—Landor
	ON the day of victory no weariness is felt.—
Arabic Proverb.
	EXTRAORDINARY afflictions are not always
the punishment of extraordinary sins, but
sometimes the trial of extraordinary graces—
Matthew Henry.
	The old home of Alice and Phoebe Cary, com-
prising twenty-six acres, near Cincinnati, has
been purchased by Alexander Swift, and is to
be converted into a beautiful memorial park.
Mr. Swift is a wealthy citizen and a brother-in-
law of the Cary sisters.—Ex.
	GEORGE Eliot had, as is well known, a great
love and capacity for music, and a voice
of rare sweetness. She once said that if
she had had her choice of surpassing
gifts she would have chosen the career
of a great musician. A somewhat apocry-
phal story is told in illustration of this bent
of her mind. She was in a garden one day
reading some French work aloud to a child.
A lady passing stood still to listen. Gorge
Eloit looked up, "Do you understand this?"
she asked with a smile. "Not at all," was
the answer, "but I am charmed by your beauti-
ful voice." "Ah!" said George Eliot, "I would
rather you loved my voice than my Romola'!"
The incident is a little strained, as George Eliot
was the last person in the world to talk in this
style to a stranger; but the story probably ex-
pressed faithfully enough what was often in
her mind, if not on her lips.


FOR SALE.

Home-Made SILK,
	AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

	ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
	DENTIST.
		SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
		to Filling and Preserving the
		Natural teeth.  Teeth Carefully
		Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
		from one tooth to a Full Set in the
		Most Approved Manner. PRICES
		to Suit te Times and First Class
		Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE--MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
		P. O. BOX, 341.

		HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction.  The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
	VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
	YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.

	A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
Culer, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME Made

	Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
	Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
	Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
	Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
		MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons to the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE AND RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

	THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
			BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
		Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West.		Your Orders are Solicited.
			GEO. DUNFORD.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
			HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
			CALL AND EXAMINE
	Spring and Summer Goods.

	DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the coutry promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 396, Salt Lake City.

			Z. C. M. I.
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

	AT TEASDEL'S
		SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
		S. P. TEASDEL.

	H. DINWOODEY,
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
	FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
			AND
	BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
		SALT LAKE CITY.

	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE--Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE--Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

