	"Improvement Star."  No. 4, Vol. 1. Manu-
script paper 11th Ward Y. L. M. I. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN AND TEMPERANCE.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—In the last number of
your valuable paper, the ruling of the Judge
of the Supreme Court in regard to the liquor
question was referred to, and it was suggested
that every woman who has the welfare of man-
kind at heart should protest against it. I en-
dorse the sentiment with all my heart. It is
my earnest conviction, however, that women
many times bring untold misery upon them-
selves and their offspring by indulging in spir-
ituous liquors in various forms at certain times
in their lives, thus creating an appetite for
strong drink in their children before their
birth, which will be a withering curse to them
all their life long.
	I have heard some women say they could
not do without liquor at certain times, which,
however, with my past experience I do not be-
lieve. To illustrate my belief I will relate an
incident in my own life. My first child was
born in the winter of '48, at Winter Quarters,
and in the opinion of all my friends, I was
very near unto death; and I wish to state em-
phatically in this connection that I was not
snatched from an untimely grave by the use of
alcoholic stimulants in any form, but by the
power of God through the faith of the sisters
who had met at Brother Heber C. Kimball's 
to hold a little prayer meeting, and at the re-
quest of a sister of our family they exercised
their faith and prayers in my behalf; and as a
result I began to improve from that very hour,
and was soon restored to my usual health.
	I would further say on this subject that if
we admit that liquor is sometimes beneficial,
we also know that there is no safety in its use.
If it has ever saved life, it has also been the
great destroyer of the human race. I have
known bright, intelligent and would be useful
men, if they had been able to overcome their
appetite for liquor.
	I have often wondered why this state of
things should exist with intelligent beings, pos-
sessing many of the attributes of the Deity. I
have been told that it is often inherited from
one or both parents. There surely must be a
fearful retribution for those who willfully be-
queathe such a fearful legacy to their innocent
children.
	But for those parents who have acquired the
habit in ignorance of its direful results, and
who have not sufficient stamina to overcome it,
I have much sympathy. My advice to moth-
ers bearing children is to abstain entirely from
the use of alcoholic stimulants, that they may
not be called to account in a coming day for
rearing a generation of drunkards.
	In view of such probable results, I would
far rather a daughter of mine should remain
in single blessedness all her days than become
allied to a young man who is habitually ad-
dicted to the intoxicating cup, even in a mod-
erate degree. Some may think I am too radi-
cal on the subject, but I feel that we have
much at stake in the future welfare of Zion,
and that we should set examples before our
children worthy of their imitation; and if we
fail to overcome our own propensities in the
direction of intemperance, we can hardly ex-
pect our children to do so.
	With these few reflections I will close, hop-


ing the Saints will give this momentous subject
the attention it deserves.
	R. A. W.
Manti, Jan. 17, 1882.


[Column 1]

CELESTIAL MARRIAGE.

	As so much is said at present upon the law
of Celestial Marriage, and so very little under-
stood about it, at least among many of our own
people and those not of our faith, I will en-
deavor to say a few words in relation to this
subject.
	Brother Orson Pratt said, in a discourse up-
on this subject given in Salt Lake City 1869
(page 76 "Does the Bible sanction Polyga-
my?"): "If all the inhabitants of the earth at
the present time were righteous before God,
and both males and females were faithful in
keeping His commandments, and the number
of the sexes of a marriageable age were ex-
actly equal, there would be no necessity for
any such institution; every righteous man could
have his wife, and there would be no overplus
of females." But he further explains, that by
taking the statistics of the census of the differ-
ent States, that there are hundreds of thou-
sands more women than men; one cause of
this being that many more males die under the
age of twenty years than females, while many
lose their lives in war and other employments.
	Brother Pratt also said that God was fight-
ing against the evils and wickedness which are
the result of so many being deprived, by man-
made laws, of fulfilling that first great com-
mand to multiply and replenish the earth; 
hence. He has given a commandment whereby
this can be remedied. For certain reasons best
known to our Heavenly Father, the Nephites
were commanded not to practise this principle.
Brother Orson Pratt said it was because their
numbers were equal when Lehi left Jerusalem.
Some try to take advantage of this, but I think
whatever God commands us to do is binding
upon us, no matter whether any one else ever
practised it or not. The Bible informs us that
in the days when God talked with man, that
this principle was practised, and God honored
those most who did practise it, and speaks of
Abraham as being the father of the faithful.
but if he lived at present, the so-called Chris-
tians would seek to take away every privilege,
and even his life if they could.
	No man can take wives outside of the law
of God and please God, as was the case with
David; God gave him many wives, but in the
case of Uriah he took the wife unto himself
and robbed another; hence, he was under con-
demnation, as is recorded in the 11th and 12th
chapters of Second Samuel. But we find that
after being chastened he took Bathsheba in the
right way, and she was the mother of Solomon,
who was termed the wise king; who was also
honored by God's presence, for He appeared
unto him twice. But he was not so wise that
he kept from sinning, for he took wives from
the nations which were forbidden to the Saints,
and they succeeded in turning him to idolatry.
But nothing is said about its being a sin to take
more wives than one,
	Brother Orson Pratt also mentions in his
remarks about the sister of Moses and others,
who were jealous because Moses had taken the
Ethiopian woman, in addition to the daughter
of Jethro, whom he had taken before in the
land of Midian; that Miriam, his sister, was
smitten with leprosy the moment she began to
complain, and was considered unclean for a
certain number of days.
	I wonder how many cases of leprosy there
would be at present, if every woman was
stricken with it that speaks against Celestial
Marriage.
	I will make one more reference to the Book
of Mormon. The Lord said unto Jacob, in

[Column 2]

connection with other things: "For if I will,
saith the Lord, raise up seed unto myself, I
will command my people; otherwise ye shall
obey these things." This plainly showed there
was a probability that the time would come
when He would command His people otherwise.
	The revelation was given in 1843, and Jo-
seph Smith the Prophet practised it, and young
maidens were sealed to him and lived in the
house with his wife Emma, until she aposta-
tized from the faith, or, rather, rebelled against
the Lord, and like the ancient Jews, when they
found that the Savior had arisen, they hired
the watchman to tell that His body was stolen,
and thousands are deceived by that story to-
day. So with Emma, Brother Joseph's wife;
she destroyed the original copy of the revela-
tion, and after Joseph's death taught her chil-
dren that he never received any such revelation,
and they believe it and try to induce others to,
and many do. But she did not thwart the
purposes of God in doing this, for Bishop N.
K. Whitney, one of Brother Joseph's particu-
lar friends, had preserved a copy of the reve-
lation, but it was not published until the Lord
directed. And because she rejected the word
of the Lord, it was no sign His work was go-
ing to stop.
	We hear very much said about Celestial
Marriage being such a trial. I do not doubt
but some are tried in this order, but is there
any principle, if it is practised aiming at per-
fection, but will try our selfish natures in some
way or other? I think not. The great trouble
is, except we have a testimony of the truth of
Celestial Marriage, we think every little trou-
ble unnecessary. Isaiah says, just after speak-
ing of the great calamities which will come
upon the daughters of Zion for pride, "That
seven women will take hold of one man, say-
ing, we will eat our own bread and wear our
own apparel, only let us be called by thy name,
to take away our reproach." I think it would
be better for the people to accept a principle
than to be forced to it in that way.
	We read in the Bible, Rev. 21st chap., that
John saw a beautiful city coming down from
heaven, and it had twelve gates, and an angel
at each gate; and each gate had a name writ-
ten upon it, and the names were the Twelve
Tribes of Israel; and we know that Jacob's
twelve sons, by four different wives, will be the
ones whose names will be written in such holy
places. I expect the next measures introduced
will be some leading man advising Congress to
adopt special legislation to deprive the twelve
sons of Jacob of a representation in heaven.
	MARY J. MORRISON.


WHAT WOMEN THINK.

	I have been thinking of the EXPONENT, and
wondering why more of our sisters (I should
say all of them) do not take it. Surely it is 
of some importance that the women of Utah
should be properly represented; we certainly
have misrepresentation enough. The cry has
ever been, the down-trodden women of Utah.
This same cry of oppression is made an excuse
for all kinds of newspaper abuse, and a pre-
text for interference in our public and domes-
tic institutions; indeed, they would have the
world believe us the most degraded and neg-
lected beings of all God's creation. Now, we
know this is not so; we enjoy full as much lib-
erty as they do, and a great deal more, with all
their boasted civilization. We do not need
their sympathy nor their interference in our
behalf. We enjoy all the rights that are ac-
corded to our sex anywhere, and know as well
how to use them as any of our compeers in the
Eastern cities would. Indeed, we enjoyed more
before they kindly introduced so much of their
vaunted civilization into our midst. The day
has been when we could walk the streets of


Salt Lake City at any hour of the day or
night, if necessary, without fear of insult, for
every man we met would be a brother and a
friend. But alas! this state of things did not
continue. Civilization came into our midst,
and the efforts of our Christian friends have
not only been successful in building churches
on many of our corners, but too many of the
opposite corners are occupied by the dealer in
intoxicating liquors, and the gambling hall is
there, with all the allurements of vice to lead
astray the unwary; and after the shades of
evening fall it is no longer safe for innocence
to walk the streets of our city nnprotected;
while the strange woman spoken of in Proverbs,
seventh chapter, lieth in wait to see if she can-
not catch some of the simple ones and lead the
youth of Zion astray. These are the scarlet-
robed women; but they belong not to us. They
are a necessary institution of the opposers of
this latter-day work. This is lamentable; and
shall the women of Utah keep silent when their
dearest and most sacred rights are being in-
vaded? No; rather let us raise our voices and
cry aloud at the injustice done us, till the na-
tion hears us and respects our rights. Let us
prove to the world that we are not the ignorant
slaves and bond-servants of men that the Hon-
orable Senator Morgan of Alabama would
represent us.
	Mothers and daughters in Israel, arouse
yourselves and show the world that our moral-
ity is at least of as high an order as that prac-
tised in the light of the civilization of the
Capitol of our country. And though our sen-
sibilities are as delicate, and our affections as
tender as the best and truest man can desire,
yet, when we go to the polls, we understand
full well our privileges, and vote for our friends
and those who will work for our best interests;
for men who honor the Constitution of our
country, and not for those who would defraud
us of our rights, who would sow dissension and
introduce debauchery and demoralization into
our midst. We want men to represent us who
understand the principles of purity and virtue,
and practice them in their own lives.
	These are the principles we will teach our
sons and our daughters; and when men come
among us seeking for office, who disseminate
falsehood and trample on our rights, they will
ever and always, I trust, find themselves con-
fronted by the Women of Utah.
	PHEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]
		HOAR’S SPEECH IN THE SENATE.
	HIS RESOLUTION FOR A'.SELECT COMMITTEE
ON woman’s RIGHTS.
Mr. President [italics]—I do not understand that the
question which the honorable Senator from
Missouri has discussed with so much eloquence
is before the Senate. No question of the ex-
tension of suffrage to any portion of our citi-
zens is raised by the resolution which is before
the Senate. The only question now is, first,
whether Senators like the honorable Senator
from Missouri will prefer to decide this ques-
tion before it is heard or after; and  next,
whether if one-half the population of this
country have an interest which their represen-
tatives desire to present to Congress, it will be 
more convenient to give them a hearing by one
of the standing committees of the Senate or by 
a separate committee appointed for that pur-
pose. I suppose the Judiciary Committee
would be entirely competent, and would be for
many reasons entirely appropriate, as the
proper organ of the Senate to hear the request
of these ladies; but the Judiciary Committee
is crowded with great subjects, and as one very
intelligent Senator observed to me yesterday,
“Send the matter to the Judiciary Committee,
for they never report on anything.” This com-
[COLUMN 2]
mittee is proposed, not alone to hear any repre-
sentation or arguments which may be proper
to be heard in regard to the question of Wo-
man Suffrage, but in regard to all subjects
where these ladies think their sex lies under
an improper legal disability. Mr. President, I
suppose that the wildest conservative in this
country will not deny that the old Common
Law, in defining the rights and duties of Eng-
lish and American women was not only unjust,
but almost brutal, No matter what might be
the degradation of the husband, the person,
the earnings, the personal property, the real
estate for life of the wife were absolutely in his
power. The discussion of this class of ques-
tions has convinced the American people, I be-
lieve, to an absolute unanimity of judgment,
that the law which permitted the husband to
beat his wife with a rod varying in size with
the thumb of the Lord Chief Justice or Chan-
cellor, which denied her the right to secure the
earnings of her own day’s work, which denied
her any voice or control in the education or
custody or direction of the children which she
had borne, was not only unjust, but almost
brutal. Within our national jurisdiction, with
Congress  organizing the institutions of the
great Territories, which are to become imperial
States, is it not fitting that that class of con-
siderations should be gravely, fully, adequately 
considered? If so, I do not see why the hon-
orable Senator from Missouri (who, I know,
entertains as high and chivalrous a regard for
the sex to which our mothers and sisters and
wives belong as any man on this floor) should
not unite with me in providing for giving a
respectful and thorough hearing, which it is
impossible that any of the standing committees
of this body can do, to the petitioners on this
class of subjects. Unless I am misinformed, it
is the rule of the Judiciary Committee, from
which they almost never depart, to give no
hearing at all, a course to which they are con-
strained by the necessities of the business com- 
mitted to them. Therefore, entirely independ-
ent of any question of the right or propriety
of extending suffrage to the women of this
country, it seems to me eminently proper and
fitting that this committee should be raised.
	I agree with the honorable Senator that if it
were the purpose of the advocates, of Woman
Suffrage to degrade any woman of this country
to the level of the masculine, ward politician,
who at present is governor of so many great
cities, and so many great States, it would be a
conclusive answer to this proposition. That is
not the purpose. It is not to degrade woman
to the present level of masculine politics; it is to
elevate masculine politics to the present level
of woman, to which the advocates of this re-
form are giving their efforts. I do not think
the honorable Senator from Missouri, or the
honorable Senators from any other State what-
ever, at present or in the past, have shown skill
enough in the matter of governing States to
enable them to claim any special superiority
for the masculine intellect in dealing with that
particular subject. I think myself that in de-
termining the policies which shall govern our
schools, the most important single question
which comes before legislative bodies; in de-
termining the policies which shall govern our
civil service, which is so largely filled by wo-
men to-day; in determining the questions which
concern the sale of intoxicating liquors, and
all the class of questions where the sphere and
the purity and the morality of American citi-
zenship are concerned, we may well, before we
come to a conclusion, count the vote and ascer-
tain the judgment and obey the wish of the
women of America. Proud as I am of the
history of this country, proud as I am of the
history of the English race to which I belong,
I do not think that it has shown any absolute
wisdom or inspiration in its capacity to provide
for the government of States, which enables it
[COLUMN 3]
to look with disdain on the proposition to avail
itself of feminine purity, of feminine instinct,
or of feminine wisdom, in dealing with the great
subjects with which States have to deal.


MIDWIVES.
A COMPETENT MIDWIFE IS WANTED TO LOCATE
permanently at Castle Dale in Emery County. Special
inducements offered. Correspondence solicited.
Address:	BISHOP JASPEH	PETERSEN,
Castle Dale, Emery Co, Utah.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: - MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 341.

Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
obo i n the West.  Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.
Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER’S COMMISSION STORE.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,
Flannels,
Shawls,
Linseys,
Jeans,
Brown Yarns,
White Yarns,
Colored Yarns,
Cassimers,
Tweeds,
Cotton Batting,
Wool Batting,
Brooms, 
Washboards,
Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
——HAVE----
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126.
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 396, Salt Lake City. 

AT TEASDEL'S 
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent’s Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children’s Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
