VOL. 10	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1882.	No. 17.


THE POET'S PRAYER.

God of my Fathers! Friend of human kind!
Almighty moulder of creative mind!
That sitt’st enthroned aloft from mortal ken,
Showering Thy mercies on the sons of men!

Thou who of old unloosed the prophet’s tongue, 
While Daniel prophesied, while David sung,
That saith to all—oh simple, pleasing task!— 
“If any lack for wisdom, let him ask;"— 
If prayer like mine find favor in thy sight,
If I have loved, and longed for wisdom’s light,
And Thou, to whom no creature crieth vain,
Hath deemed my soul deserving care or pain;
To thee, my Father, hands and voice I lift,
And crave of thee, Almighty God, a gift.
Not worldly wealth, though wealth of worlds be Thine,
Nor gilded rank, ’mong human worms to shine,
For wealth might fall, and rank might purchased be,
But not the guerdon I would win from Thee.

Be Thou my Muse! None other would I know—
Eternal Fount of all inspiring flow! —
Whose voice it was bade Seer of Patmos "Write"
Such things as never mortal dared indite,		
Or grander than old Ocean’s glorious swell, 
Rolled through Isaiah’s themes on Israel;
On whose high altar flames the sacred fire, 
Whose vivid rays inventive dreams inspire,
Unhonored oft, yet evermore the same, 
Omnific Light that lumines earth with fame.

On bended knee before that altar now,
In Jesus' mighty name I meekly bow,
Great God, give ear! Judge Thou my heart's intent, 
For I am weak, but Thou Omnipotent.
Whilst o’er my task, in feeble frame I bend,
Be Thou my Guide, my Counselor, my Friend;
Teach me true gold to separate from dross,
Accounting gain what many scorn as loss. 
Thou who endow’d’st me with receptive soul,	
O’er all its pow’rs possess me of control,	
From off this brain remove each hampering coil,
Or image vain that lingers but to soil; 
Let heavenly Thought descend as Hermon's dews,
With loftier themes my vision to infuse,
My fainting soul with fresh aspiring fill,
Its every wish submissive to thy will,
Its main desire to magnify thy laws,
Its crowning aim thy Kingdom and thy Cause.

Roll on my days responsive to thy rule,
This tongue thine oracle, this pen thy tool— 
Designed to soar, or doomed to lowly plod— 
Amanuensis of the mind of God. 
 						O. F. WHITNEY.
London, January, 1882.


[Column 1]
THE CITY OF THE SAINTS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

CONTINUED.

	Months have intervened since I wrote my
first section of the article under this heading;
during that time I have written little besides
private correspondence. I explained in a let-
ter in the Exponent, which my friends will
remember; and now I must request my readers
to refer back to the commencement of the arti-
cle, that they may gather up the dropt threads
of the subject. I think I have referred to the
purity of the atmosphere, but my friends will
pardon me if I exhibit a little tautology; to
me the subject is inspiring, for nothing has
more impressed me in nature in this region
than its marvelous atmosphere; especially
when the year is vernal, or autumnal. It
makes a remarkable impression on me; at times
I feel it like the wings of some beautiful bird

[Column 2]
of rich and soft plumage overshadowing me,
and I love to sit calmly for a few moments,
that I may inhale the sweet influence it throws
around! It seems to whisper in the stillest,
smallest voice of joy, of peace, of heaven and
heavenly things, of bygone days, with their
dial noting the sunny hours of life! of the
loved and loving, "passed into the skies!" and
present happiness and present possessions, it
makes fuller and richer still; yes; it has a
language that speaks to my spirit of all that
is highest and holiest in this sublunary state of
being. My epitome of it is—and I say it with
all reverence—the Spirit of God breathes
in it! And this beauty is not by fitful moods
and gleams, like an European atmosphere, but
will continue for weeks, sometimes for months;
and hence the beauty of our gardens is not
invaded by sudden storms, when a large amount
of labor and expense and gorgeous beauty is
all destroyed in an hour, often much less. I
have observed that the European physique,
mental and physical, improves and refines un-
der this climate; though that probably is greatly
assisted by the "Word of Wisdom," which is
taught and practically carried out by a great
many of our people; all the elements of lon-
gevity are here in rich profusion, and health
abounds.
	Oh, the nights! let me not forget those glo-
rious nights, when tha lunar orb is sailing thro'
the broad expanse in her car of blue and sil-
ver, of gold and precious gems; through which
we almost fancy we can gaze into the presence
chamber of the Grand Architect of the uni-
verse; and certainly feel we are nearer heaven!
	In many past ages this has been a volcanic
region, though all that is extinct and passive,
but the traces of such are still visible. The
mountains that surround us like protective
walls are undulating and irregular, and the
lights and shadows cast upon them by the re-
flection of the sun render their tints purple
lurid, or a silver grey, as the hour of the day
dictates the pencil. To me, these mountains,
with their snowy scalps, have also a language:
some speak of life, of energy, of might, and
power, of warfare and the roar of the cataract,
and the rush of the torrent—now silent and
extinct; others breathe a repose, a rest, a calm,
that shadows forth the rest of the Christian
when the "mortal coil" is "shuffled off." One
high hill, almost perpendicular in its ascent,
bursting out as it were from the tops of the
mountains, is called "Ensign Peak;" from the
summit of this you get an entire and unbroken
view of the city and the surrounding country;
it is indeed a spot to realize "the world forget-
ting, by the world forgot." Here is a perfect
freedom indeed. It is a spot in which to spend
hours of meditation: a spirit meets you there
that cannot be found in a crowded city, or in
halls of pleasure; you feel you are in a temple
"not made with hands," its dome the blue con-
cave of heaven, its kneeling place the footstool
of earth. Away the eye rolls over one class of
mountains, clothed in a vesture of royal pur-
ple; on the other side they are enveloped in a
veil of mist, and their base dreamy and ob-
scure—such as Claude Lorraine loved to paint,
drawing the mind to contemplate that bright,
beautiful, but mystic and obscure eternity to
which we are all so rapidly hastening! Let-
ting the eyes drop into the valley, we there see
a tortuous, dark line, rolling in coils, like a
huge serpent, named by the pioneers the river
Jordan! Away higher up runs a bar of shin-

[Column 3]
ing silver, sufficient to line every cloud that
may overhang the region, whether individual
or collective; this is composed of the rays of
the sun upon the beautiful Salt Lake. Then
the eye descends upon the city, the tops of
whose highest buildings you can in imagination
walk over. In my rapturous feelings I could
imagine one huge building "the Coliseum;" and
the noble, but unfinished Temple, that most
unique structure is looming up, and speaking
to the Latter-day Saints of a grand and impor-
tant FUTURE! And now the eye rests on the
elegant towers of the Assembly Hall, on the
same block as the Temple; then wanders to the
left, and rests upon the large and well-designed
Theatre; its internal arrangements denote a
consideration for the comfort and accommoda-
tion of the artists who may occupy it, and is a
building worthy of the metropolis of Utah.
Fine and beautiful private dwellings abound in
this city of the desert; and reflections naturally
fill the mind of the beholder (unless it is a
shallow or a barren one) that but a few years
ago nothing but sagebrush and a few wild In-
dians were the produce and the occupants of
this region, now so fertile, and thickly inhab-
ited by an industrious and most intelligent peo-
ple, made so by the blessing of God upon a poor
and obscure people, who came to it for the sole
purpose of endeavoring to worship Him "in
spirit and in truth," to gather up and prepare
them for the second coming of their Lord; to
lay aside "the pomps and vanities of the world,"
and all its hollow ways, and to become as "a
beacon set upon a hill, that cannot be hid."
Such was their sole design; this has been the de-
sign of all who have gathered to the nucleus.
And many of the rich and intelligent, and those
educated in high schools and reared in refine-
ment and luxury, have read and heard and drank
into the spirit that broods over this singular peo-
ple and have brought all and gladly cast in their
lot and become one with the pioneers chosen
and ordained of God for a mighty purpose.
Watch for it, ye nations, for it will surely
come; yes, is on the way with rapid strides.
	Dear reader, do you realize that you and I
are on the summit of Ensign Peak? and that
we are having a nice talk to ourselves? Listen!
I feel like Peter—he desired to build an altar.
Were I rich and had permission, I would build
a small Temple, or Kioske on the very place
where we are now standing; it shonld not be
more than sixteen or eighteen feet in length,
and should be octagon in its form, having a
Pagoda top; it should have four doorways, but
no doors; it would not need windows, but it
must have seats by the walls and a table in
the centre!
	I once spent a whole Sabbath day up there—
a lovely day in the lovely month of May;
there, with three choice friends, we held a spir-
itual "communion of Saints." That day (in
my mind) I laid the foundation of the above.
Years have passed—In spirit I am often there,
for it is a conspicuous object from my window,
and I echo the words of David, "Had I the
wings of a dove," I would refresh my mind in
the pure, untainted air of Ensign Peak.
	Jan. 18, 1882.


Mrs. Mary E. Haggart will present the Wo-
man Suffrage question before the Kentucky
Legislature during the present session. She is
an able, earnest and very efficient advocate of
the cause.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY

	The following correspondence between my
father and mother may prove interesting to
others, more particularly to the ones who were
connected with the Church in an early day and
know something of its history. The first, writ-
ten by my mother, is in answer to father's, and
it expresses the joy and consolation which noth-
ing but this Gospel brings; and this is enjoyed
by every true Latter-day Saint.
	"In every condition, in sickness, in health,
	In poverty's vale, or abounding in wealth,
﻿	At home or abroad, on the land or the sea,
	As thy days may demand so thy succor shall be."
					"COMMERCE, Feb. 2, 1840.
	"My Dear Husband:- I have received your
letter of January 27, which gave me great joy;
not to hear of your sickness, for that pains my
heart, but that you have been an instrument
in the hands of God of converting some of my
dear kindred to a knowledge of the truth. Yea,
I feel that this is a recompense for all my pri-
vations in having you gone from me; for how
great in the sight of God is the worth of one
soul. Is it possible that my dear brothers has
become a praying man? do you think he has
got the root of the matter in him, so that he
will hold out to the end? If so, what an un-
speakable blessing!
	You have very kindly offered me the privi-
lege of visiting my friends the coming summer;
at the first thought my heart leaped for joy,
but upon more mature consideration, I think
perhaps it would not be wisdom. I should
have to sell everything we have to bear our
expenses, and then to be visiting so long with
the children, it would be quite a task; and if
I should get ever so tired of it, I should have
no home, nor anything to keep house with. I
feel as you do about settling in Kirtland; I
cannot think of changing my good neighbors
here for the society of those who are at variance
one with the other. There is a perfect union
here, and we have meetings at our house twice
a week. But I cannot make up my mind what
I shall do until Joseph gets home from Wash-
ington; I shall take counsel from him. It will
then be time enough to let you know.
	You will be so long getting to your journey's
end, I very much fear that you will not get
home next fall. The time seems long, and I
want to hear from you often. I feel more anx-
ious about your poor health; I long to get one
letter that will not give the painful intelligence
that you have been sick again. * * * *
	"William is very anxious to go East, and no
wonder, for he has not been able to do a day's
work this winter, and thinks he never shall if
he stays here.  * * I have been sorely af-
flicted with a cancer wart in the palm of my
hand, but I thank the Lord it is now as well as
ever. I often think that the hand of affliction
is not taken from you, or we should all be well,
for your faith would be stronger; but I have
great cause to be thankful, for through the
kindness and generosity of our neighbors we
are made comfortable for food and wood.
	"Brother Don C. Smith called in and saw me
writing, and wished me to give you his respects;
also Bro. Charles C. Rich. He and family
have been very kind to me; I think they are
the best of neighbors. * * Our children talk
much about their poor father, and long to see
him. They join with me in love.
			"From your affectionate wife,
				VILATE KIMBALL."
	The next received from father  was dated
New York, Feb. 19, 1840. He says:
	"My health is much better and my spirits
good. I feel to press forward in the name of
Jesus Christ. I am sensible that the Lord will

			[Column 2]
try His Saints to the uttermost, for it seems as
thought he devil was determined to destroy my
life and the lives of my brethren, the Twelve;
but they all seem to have good courage as yet.
Brother Brigham fell and hurt himself quite
bad, but is getting better, and his health is im-
proving. Brother George A. Smith has the
chills yet and is quite poorly. Brothers Orson
and Parley enjoy good health. * * *
	"While in Mendon I preached four times,
and had many calls to go and preach in other
towns and places. Brother Solomon did not-
go to hear me; I think I never saw him more
set against this work; I did not stay with him
but four or five nights. The sun of peace did
not abide there. and I felt greatly distressed
while with him. In Victor I had several calls
to go to Pike to preach. After being much
wrought upon I consented; William and Mary
went with me. We got to Adolpus Hewet's
the first day of February; I never saw a per-
son more pleased thatn his wife was to see me;
said she had been calling on the Lord that He
would send me there. Sunday morning we
went to the Christian Chapel. * * They
gave out an appointement for me to preach
Monday evening; said they were willing that I
should preach, because they were in such a cold
state I could have no effect upon them. The
house was crowded. My text was the Second
Epistle of John, the 9th and 10th verses.
When I was almost through speaking, two of
the ministers came crawling into the pulpit. I
gave them permission to speak. One (a Bap-
tist priest) rose up and found fault with me for
preaching from the Bible. When he had set
down I rose and answered him. Then one of
the others rose up, till four of the ministers
spoke. I answered all of them, and they were
confounded and began rather to make ridicule.
My speaking once, caused such an excitement
that it took four to put it down; and their ris-
ing made it worse, for it opened the eyes of the
people. I baptized Hewet's wife, and many
believed.  * * *
	"We returned to Victor on the 7th, and I
left there on the 10th, arriving in Albany on
the 12th. Found Wheeler there (a brother-in-
law), and stayed with him that night at the
Hotel; he paid my fare and said if I would
stay one week he would pay my bills. He
thought me very unwise to go any farther. * *
 "Next day I took coach for New York; the
fare was nine dollars. Went upon the east
side of the river, crossed the Catskill Moun-
tains; took three days to get to Jersey City.
When I got there I had not one penny left,
and they would not let me pass without paying
twenty-five cents. I told them I was out of
money, and there was a gentleman gave me a
quarter, and I crossed the river into New York
at nine o'clock in the evening. Went to the
Western Hotel and pawned my trunk for my
stopping over night. Next morning went and
found old Mr. Fordham, who directed me to
Brother Parley's, where I found Orson and
Brigham; were all glad to see me. This was
Sunday, and in the afternoon I met and
preached to one hundred and fifty of the
Saints. It was a great pleasure to meet with
them; they were very kind to me, and gave me
money to redeem my truuk. * *
	"I ate but one meal a day on my way to
New York- this was for the want of money-
but I neither went hungry nor athirst.
	"I received your letter of Nov. 3, which had
lain in the office for a long time. It was a
great comfort to learn that you and the chil-
dren were so much better. May God grant
the belssing of health to rest upon you and the
children forever. * * * Brother Orson
Pratt and myself were called upon to visit a
very sick woman; she could not turn herself in
bed. We anointed her with oil in the name of
the Lord, and she was healed and made whole.
She did not belong to the Church, nor her hus-

			[Column 3]
band; but in two days after she and husband
were baptized, and fourteen others.
	"Brothers Woodruff, Taylor, Clark, Mulner,
White and Turley have sailed for England.
	"Tell my dear little children that I am glad
to hear that they are faithful to pray for their
father."
	The following is from his last letter before
crossing the ocean:
			"NEW YORK, March 5, 1840.
	"My Dear Companion:-This day I received
your letter of Feb. 2; with feelings of joy. I
went to the office every day, and had nearly
given up the chase. I feel thankful that you
and the children are alive. My health is im-
proving; is much better than when I wrote
last. My labor is quite hard; I have to go to
meeting every night, and don't get to bed till
twelve or one o'clock; this overcomes me once
in a while. The Lord is here in this city, and
the honest in heart are enquiring the way to
heaven; there are calls on all sides to come
and preach. We are to sail next Saturday for
England, on the Patrick Henry, if the Lord
will. We were disappointed in not going
aboard the Garrick; they would not take any
passengers, could make more to carry freight.
Owing to being detained, we have Parley to go
with us. * * I have received great kind-
ness since  I came to this city, and also my
brethren.
	"You wanted to know if your brother Wil-
liam had the root of the matter in him. I can
say, yes; I never saw one more so. You know
that he is a go-ahead man and has a mind of
his own. He has a great desire to see you and
have you teach him of the things of the king-
dom. * * * I want you to come and visit
with our friends, but I don't want to settle in
the East unless times change.
	"You did not say anything about that little
black-eyed girl that lives with you. Tell Wil-
liam to be a good boy, for the Lord will heal
him. I feel that He will bless you all with
health. Give my love to our little ones, and
to Brothers Joseph and Hyrum, and all others
who love the Lord.
		Your affectionate husband,
					HEBER C. KIMBALL."
	Witness the sacrifice and continuous self-
denial of the servants of God, rsisting and
turning away from every temptation, and the
allurements of a worldly nature; struggling
with poverty, disease and death, and all the
other untoward circumstances; traveling with-
out purse or scrip to the nations and islands of
the sea, to preach the faith and doctrines of an
unpopular sect. Where (except the Mormons)
are the ministers who have professed Christian-
ity that have ever manifested such indomitable
courage, perseverance and endurance for the 
sole purpose of preaching salvation to the hon-
est in heart? The Twelve Apostles understood
their grand and glorious mission, which had
been given them by revelation through the
Prophet Joseph Smith; and though conscious
of their weakness, they feared nothing, for
their strength lay in the arm of Jehova; 
though they were often brought to death's door,
He was their refuge, and they rejoiced not-
withstanding their afflictions. "Greater love
hath no man than this, that a man lay down his
life for his friends;" and as Jesus said, "There
is no man that hath left houses, or brethren, or
sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children,
or lands for my sake and the Gospel, but he shall
receive a hudnred fold now, and in the world to
come eternal life." "Blessed is he that endur-
eht temptation; for when he is tried he shall
receive the crown of life which the Lord hath
promised them that love Him."
			To be continued.


LADIES remember the Municipal Election
on Monday, Feb. 13.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 131


JOHN MILTON ON HIS BLINDNESS.

[The following sublime and very affecting production
was found among the remains of our great epic poet,
and is published in the Oxford edition of Milton's
Works.]
			I am old and blind!
Men point at me as smitten by God's frown;
Afflicted and deserted of my kind;
		Yet I am not bowed down.

		I am weak yet strong:
I murmer not that I no longer see;
Poor, old, and helpless, I the more belong,
		Father Supreme, to Thee.

		 O Merciful One!
When men are farthest then art Thou most near;
When friends pass by, my weakness shun,
		The chariot I hear.

		Thy glorious face
Is ever towards me; and its holy light
Shines in upon my dwelling-place,
	    And there is no more night!

		On my bended knee
I recognize Thy purpose, clearly shown—
My vision Thou hast dimm'd, that I may see
		Thyself alone!

		I have nought to fear;
Thy darkness is the shadow of Thy wing,
Beneath it I am almost sacred, here
		Can come no evil thing.

		Oh! I seem to stand
Trembling, where foot of mortal ne'er hath been;
Wrapp'd in the radiance of thy sinless land,
		What eye hath never seen.

		Visions come and go,
Shapes of resplendent beauty round me throng;
From angel lips I seem to hear the flow
		Of soft and holy song.

		It is nothing now,—
When heaven is opening on my sightless eyes—
When airs of Paradise refresh my brow—
		The earth in Darkness lies.

		In a purer clime
My being fills with rapture; waves of thought
Roll in upon my spirit; strains sublime
		Break over me unsought.

		Give me my lyre!
I feel the stirrings of a gift divine;
Within my bosom glows unearthly fire
		Set by no skill of mine.


[Column 1]
A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

CONTINUED.

	After the return of Sister Zina from the Is-
lands she spent most of her time in visiting
among the people, attending meetings of the
Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations, and assisting in encouraging and
strengthening the various organizations in
company with Sister Eliza and their co-workers.
The promotion of sericulture was not forgotten
or neglected as she traveled in the several
wards and settlements throughout Utah. She
also continued her labors as Priestess in the
House of the Lord, in connection with Sister
Eliza; in fact, these two women have been for
many years closely allied in their work among
the people. Wherever there is sickness, death,
calamity or sorrow, they are sent for almost in-
variably, and if health and strength permit
they accept the mission willingly. The names
of Eliza and Zina have been almost as much
associated together as those of Brigham and
Heber were in public works of benefit to Zion.
	In the Fall of 1880 these two sisters decided
to go South to St. George together, to perform
some labors in the Temple, and to visit the or-
ganizations of women and children, wherever
it could be made practicable upon the route.
In November, 1880, they journeyed southward,
holding meetings by the way, and endeavoring

[Column 2]
to stimulate the sisters in assisting to build up
Zion.
	After they had been a short time engaged in
the Temple at St. George, they took several
trips out into different settlements, some of
them many miles away, necessitating camping
out at night; but with all the fortitude of pio-
neer women they bravely moved forward, and
traveled over a thousand miles in this way, in
vehicles drawn by horses over some of the
worst roads and through many disagreeable
and dangerous places, and as Sister Eliza said
after returning home, "where the curse hadn't
begun to be taken off."
	The two traveling companions, Eliza and
Zina, after having journeyed through the South,
even in very remote places and in adjacent
Territories, arrived home again the last day of
March, and were met at the depot by a party
of thirty ladies, who escorted them to the Lion
House. There was a delicious supper awaiting
them, and during the evening poems and ad-
dresses were read, and short speeches made, ex-
pressing the esteem and love of the sisters and
their appreciation of the life and labors of these
eminent women.
	In the Tabernacle at the April Conference
following, Sister Zina was sustained by the
unanimous vote of the people as Sister Eliza's
First Counselor in the General Presidency of
the Relief Societies. Sister Zina has still con-
tinued her public efforts in behalf of Zion, go-
ing among the people and speaking whenever
and wherever opportunity offered, or woman's
aid was needed. She had long desired to visit
her old home in the State of New York, and
gather up records of her relatives and friends,
that she might officiate for the dead when the
time should come to do so, and exhort the liv-
ing to examine the principles of the Everlast-
ing Gospel; or, in fact, she earnestly wished to
present the truth to them, as error concerning
the Latter-day Saints was already in the field.
An opportunity offered for her to accompany
her foster son, Willard Young, a Lieutenant
in the U. S. Service at West Point, on his re-
turn to his post after a short visit at home in
Salt Lake. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson was going
to New York to spend a little time in her
medical pursuits, in order to increase her
knowledge of the improved methods of sur-
gery, for the benefit of the people, and it was
not considered best for her to go alone. Ac-
cordingly, it was arranged between them to
travel together, and to speak upon the "Mor-
mon" question on the platform, as the Lord
should open up the way. Previous to going
East, they were blest and set apart by the First
Presidency of the Church. They left this city
on the 20th of August and went direct to New
York City. After remaining there a few days,
Sister Zina went to Jefferson County, in the
northern part of the State, where an aged aunt
of hers resides, and also to an adjacent town
to visit a younger brother, from whom she had
been many years separated. She was very cor-
dially received by her relatives and many of
their friends. She was invited to speak at
Sunday Schools and Temperance meetings, and
was always glad to be able to defend "Mormon-
ism" and advance principles of our faith.

To be continued.


IN HONOR OF BISHOP A. McRAE.

	January 19, 1882, being the twenty-fifth an-
niversary of the Bishopric of Brother A. Mc-
Rae, the members of his ward, wishing to show
their love and respect for, and their apprecia-
tion of his faithful services for so many years,
arranged a grand surprise party in the 11th
Ward schoolhouse, which was handsomely dec-
orated for the occasion. Over the stand and
above the Bishop's picture was the motto, "Our
Bishop, Jan. 19, 1857—1882,” Most of the


Ward were present, filling the house to over-
flowing. Among the invited guests were Presi-
dent Taylor and wife, Apostle Lorenzo Snow,
Apostle E. Snow and wife, Bishop Edward
Hunter and Counselors, L. W. Hardy and R.
T. Burton, Prest. J. E. Taylor, Hon. C. W.
Penrose, Judge Z. Snow and wife, and Bishop
Geo. Dunford and wife. Several tables run-
ning the whole length of the hall were covered
with the luxuries of the earth. At half past
one the guests were seated at the tables await-
ing the arrival of the Bishop, who, with his
wife soon entered, escorted by Prest. J. E. Tay-
lor. The choir greeted him with “Hail to our
humble feast,” while he wended his way to the
stand, after which they sang a piece entitled
“Our Bishop,” transposed especially for the
occasion, which was very touching. Then
prayer was offered and the feast partaken of.
	Dinner over, Coun. J. H. Felt, in behalf of
the members of the Ward, with a few appro-
priate remarks, presented the Bishop with a
beautiful watchchain and locket, with the en-
graving, “Presented to Alex. McRae on the
25th anniversary of his Bishopric.,' Mrs. M.
A. B. Freeze, in behalf of the Y. M. and Y. L.
M. I. Associations of the Ward, also presented
the Bishop with a handsomely framed likeness
of himself, accompanied with a few fitting
words. The Bishop responded by making a
kind and feeling speech, expressive of his grat-
itude for the good feeling manifested toward
him, and his desire to ever be worthy the good
will of all who love God and work righteous-
ness. Mrs. M. A. B. Freeze then read a poem
which she had composed for the occasion.
Speeches were then made by Prest. Taylor,
Apostles L. and E. Snow, Bishop Edward
Hunter, Brothers J. E. Taylor and W. A.
McMaster—the two last named were appointed
Counselors to Bishop McRae at the time he
was ordained to that office. They all bore tes-
timony to the unwavering integrity of the
Bishop, even in the most trying scenes. All
who were members of the Ward twenty-five
years ago were asked to raise the right hand,
when it was found there were only about twenty
present. It was a most enjoyable affair, a gen-
uine surprise and a perfect success in every
particular.							M.


A BILL to confer suffrage on all who can
read and write, passed both branches of the
Italian Legislature December 21, 1881.
	THE Church at Hughendon, which Disraeli
was in the habit of attending, has of late been
most beautifully decorated in memory of the
deceased. Two magnificent stained windows
have been put in, and the chancel wall has
been ornamented with sublime paintings of
prophets, angels and evangelists.
	IT is stated that since the present session ot
Congress eighteen bills have been introduced
into the Senate and House of Representatives
on the Utah question. This does not include
the amendment to the Constitution offered to
suppress the peculiar marriage institution, nor
the various petitions on these subjects sent in
from different parts of the United States.
	GOVERNOR Long, of Massachusetts, in his
Annual Message to the Legislature, on Thurs-
day, January 5, 1882, made the following
brief but emphatic reference to Woman Suf-
frage:
	"I repeat my conviction of the right of Wo-
man Suffrage. If the Commonwealth is not
ready to give it in full by a constitutional
amendment, I approve of testing it in munici-
pal elections."
	"The recent judicial decision that woman
cannot practice as an attorney-at-law has also
raised the question whether they can serve, as
some are now most usefully serving, upon pub-
lic statutory boards, except where expressly
provided by law. The decision necessitates
legislation."


132	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly. In Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50; per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	-	FEBRUARY 1, 1882.


IN MEMORIAM
	ELIZABETH H. CANNON
"Calm on the bosom of thy God,
Fair spirit, rest thee now!
E'en while with ours thy footsteps trod,
His seal was on thy brow.
Dust to its narrow house beneath,
'Soul to its place on high!
They that have seen thy look in death
No more may fear to die."
	It is ever painful to record the death of a
friend, and doubly so when the circumstances
attending the demise, are of a harrowing and
melancholy character. But yet, when we feel
assured that the one that has passed away has
been ushered into the realms of a higher and
better life, where darkness or evil influences can
never enter, and where there is no sorrow, nor
sighing, nor pain forevermore, there is sweet
consolation to the mourner, and a soothing balm
for the aching and wounded heart, pierced with
anguish at the loss of one beloved. In the in-
stance we chronicle below, the lady was a loving
and honored wife, a tender and devoted mother,
a true and faithful friend.
	Elizabeth Hoagland Cannon, wife of Prest.
George Q. Cannon, now absent in Washington,
as Delegate for Utah departed this life on Tues-
day evening, January 25, at five minutes to ele-
ven o'clock. At the time when she breathed
her last, she was surrounded by a large number
of sorrowing relatives and friends, of whom she
had previously taken a most affecting, final fare-
well, includng each of her children who were
at home, her sister Emily and her brother John.
She enjoyed upon Mary Alice, her eldest daugh-
ter, to be good and true and a guide to the 
younger children. It was a most affecting scene,
especially pathetic when she blessed her little
Sylvester, the youngest child; every one in the
room was melted to tears.
	Concerning her husband, whose presence dur-
ing her illness would have given her the great-
est joy, for she loved him with the intensity of
a noble woman's most ardent devotion, she said
she had no special message, as he comprehended
her feelings, which were too deep for words to
express. She spoke of her two sons now away
upon missions, her eldesr, John Q., laboring in
England, and Abram H. in Switzerland, desir-
ing they might do well, and requested their
uncle, Prest. Angus M. Cannon, to tell them 
not to falter in well doing.
	The scene at the deathbed, and the telegram
previously dictated to her husband-"Remain at
your post. God can raise me up, if it is His
will, in answer to your prayers there, as well as 
if you were here. All is being done for me that
can be done"-were the true index to her mag-
nanimity of soul, and the best expression that
could be given of her integrity to the interest
of the Latter-day Saints.
	During her last illness, which included eleven
days of the most intense suffering, she was
deeply appreciative of all the attentions bestowed
upon her, and displayed uniform patience and
fortitude and a firm and steadfast reliance upon
the Lord, with implicit faith in the prayers of
His servants that she would be restored to health
if it was the will of her Father in heaven.
	Sister Cannon's health had been perceptibly
declining for two years past, and at times she
suffered seriously, although recently she had 
been somewhat better, until Saturday, January
13, when she was taken with the sickness that
terminated fatally. She was a very estimable
woman, and in many respects a remarkable one,
particularly in womanly courage under trials
where sublime heroism is needed, and she also 
possessed great strength of character.
	Elizabeth Hoagland, afterwards wife of George
Q. Cannon, was the daughter of Abram and 
Margaret Quick Hoagland. Her father was for
many years Bishop of the Fourteenth Ward in
this city, which position he filled with honor
and credit to the day of his death. Their daugh-
ter Elizabeth was born in Royal Oak, Oakland
Co., Michigan, Nov. 3, 1835. Her parents em-
braced the Gospel in an early day, and emigrated
to Nauvoo when Elizabeth was but a child.
They left that city at the time of the exodus,
and spent the following winter at Winter Quar-
ters. In the year 1817 they crossed the plains
in Prest. John Taylor's company, and, endruing
the privations and hardships incident to pioneer
life, reached the valley in the month of October.
Subsequently their daughter Elizabeth was for
some time employed in the teaching school in the 
Fourteenth Ward. Miss Hoagland was united
in marriage to Elder George Q. Cannon Decem-
ber 11, 1854. In the following May she accom-
panied her husband on a mission to California,
While there her eldest child, George Q. was
born, and also died there during his infancy.
John Q., the eldest now living, was also born
there. In 1869 Mrs. Cannon went with her hus-
band on a mission to England, leaving her two
little boys, John Q. and Abram H. Cannon, at
home. While in Englanc she had two children
born, a daughter and son; returning home in
the fall of 1863, her little daughter, Georgiana,
a very interesting and attractive little girl, died
on the plains, which was a terrible affliction to
the fond and hopeful mother; and soon after her 
return the little boy was also taken away to that
"better land." She has been the mother of
eleven children; six are now living to mourn
the loss of a most judicious and tender mother,
whose nobility in life and devotion in death has
been an example to her children and to all
Israel.
	Mrs. Cannon has three times accompanied
her husband to Washington during his delegate-
ship, and while there had been universally re-
spected by all who had the pleasure of her ac-
quaintance. She was a woman of great dignity
of character, and by nature eminently fitted to
adorn and elevate society, yet she loved domes-
tic life and avoided public society, except when
duty necessitated her mingling in it. She loved
her friends sincerely, but her children and her
home were ever and always her first considera-
tion. She was very benevolent and sympathetic
in her nature, and extremely kind to all those in
her own and husband's employment. She has
at different times in her life, in the circumstan-
ces in which she had been placed, ministered
great kindness and bestowed much needful at-
tention and meands upon missionaries, who will
ever remember her with feelings of deepest 
gratitude, and speak of her with greatest reve-
rence.
	The funeral of Mrs. Cannon was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Sunday,
at 10 a.m., according to instructions received
by telegram from Hon. George Q. Cannon, and
none of his family wore any of the outward em-
blems or semblance of mourning, complying
with his wishes in this particular. At the time
appointed the coffin, which was covered with
lovely flowers, was born into the hall, which
was beautifully draped in white for the occasion,
followed by Prest. A. M. Cannon and her own im-
mediate family, after them a large number of the
relatives of herself and husband and many in-
timate friends. The large hall and both wings
were crowded to their utmost capacity, hundreds
standing, outside and in, during the whole time.
The services were conducted by the Bishop of
the Ward. Singing by the ward choir, "O Lord, re-
sponsive to thy call." Prayer by Coun. D. H.
Wells. Singing, "Mourn not the dead who
peaceful lay." Remarks by Presidents W.
Woodruff, Joseph F. Smith and John Taylor,
each of the speakers bearing testimony to the
excellent qualitites and exemplary life of the
deceased. Singing, "Come to me." Prayer by
Bishop Burton.
	Sister Cannon was buried beside her children
in the Salt Lake cemetery. The grave was dedi-
cated by Coun. D. H. Wells. She has left a record
that her husband and children may well be
proud of, and all Israel cannot but admire
	"Of all the thoughts of God that are
	Borne inward unto souls afar,
	Along the Psalmist's music deep,
	Now tell me if that any is,
	For gifts or grace, surpassing this-
	'He giveth His beloved sleep?'
	"'Sleep soft, beloved,' we sometimes say,
	But have no tune to charm away
	Sad dreams that through the eyelids creep
	But never doleful dream again
	Shall break the happy slumber when
	'He giveth His beloved sleep.'
	"And friends, dear friends, -when it shall be
	That this low breath has gone from me,
	And round my bier ye come to weep,
	Let one, most loving of you all,
	Say, 'Not a tear must o'er her fall-
	'He giveth His beloved sleep.''


ARMED FORCES.

	The Mormon question still seems greatly agi-
tating the public mind. Severe measures and
the enforcement of them with armed forces is
the popular clamor of some of the so-called
Christian sects. In this consideration one might
with all propriety ask, Is the nation retrograding?
Are the American people going back to barbar-
ism, the days of the Inquisition, or the guillo-
tine? Is the spirit of mobocracy and riot gaining
the ascendency among an enlightened people,
when men are preaching liberality from the pul-
pit and the press? Strange contradiction this!
A paradox indeed! America, the proud land of
boasted religious freedom and tolerance, driving
one class of her citizens at the point of the bayo-
net, unless they surrender their consciences into
the keeping of the popular leaders. Let them
be sure that even could they be compelled to
submit to rigid laws, which deprived them of the
practice of principles specified as disloyal, yet it
would only be another illustration of ignorant
persecution for the promulgation of true princi-
ples, such as Galileo suffered for ignominiously,
and these great modifiers would find, in the near
fulure, that "the world still moves;" that pro-
gression is eternal, and "truth, though crushed
to earth, will rise again."
	What evidence have the enemies of this peo-
ple that Congress is justified in making special
laws, or an amendment to the Constitution, to
promote virtue and morality out here in the
Rocky Mountains among the Mormons, espe-
cially to the neglect of other subjects of national
importance that demand the immediate atten-
tion of that honarable body? Are all the great


questions of the day to be set aside, while “Mor-
monism” and “Mormons” are thrown at the
President and Congress in every conceivable
way, in bills, petitions, amendments, circulars,
letters, newspapers, &c. Has the defendant no
claims in this matter? Are the whole body of
Latter-day Saints not entitled to a fair hearing?
When men's lives are the sacrifice demanded,
when armies are talked of to settle matters of
dispute, it is understood there are some means
of self defense; but in this case, the United
States vs. Mormons, there is a fearful odds; for
the U. S. have large regiments of soldiers armed
and equipped, while the "Mormons" are defence-
less so far as arms or artificial support is con-
cerned. But remember, to the innocent, for
every man there is an innumerable host of in-
visible beings, clothed in invincible armor, to
defend the Saints of God.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	VALENTINE Day approacheth, as the shop win-
dows bear witness. Choice and elegant, tender
and comic, in great abundance.
	THOSE desirous of communicating with the
General President of Y. L. M. I. A. should di-
rect to Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, P. O. Box 629,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
	WE call attention to the request made in the
article entitled "Some Facts," and signed (Gen-
tile) published in our Jan. 15 No., and invite the
"Mormon" ladies to answer through the paper.
	Reports of R. S., Y. L., and P. A. Conferences
held in Bear Lake and Juab Counties were re-
ceived too late for publication in this issue, but
will appear in our next. Report of Ladies' Con-
ference in Sanpete Stake is also crowded out.
	By letter from Mink Creek we learn that on
the 12th of January, 1882, a Relief Society was
organized there, also a Y. L. M. I. A. and Pri-
mary Association. Please forward names of offi-
cers, by whom organized and number of mem-
bers.
	Saturday, Jan. 21, was the anniversary of the
birth of Sister Eliza R. S. Smith, Zion's Poetess,
whom we designate as the "Elect Lady." On
that day she attained the advanced age of
seventy-eight years. She is in her usual good
health, except just at present suffering from a
severe cold. May her useful life be prolonged
until her destiny upon the earth has been ful-
filled, and she can return home into the man-
sion prepared for her reception, crowned with all
the honors that pertain to a celestial fulness and
exaltation.
	A YOUNG ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation was organized in the 14th Ward Jan. 16,
1882, Bishop Thomas Taylor presiding. He gave
good counsel to the young ladies, and said that
himself and Counselors would do all they could
to assist them. Said he liked the term Superin-
tendent for the presiding officer better than
President; thought it more appropriate. The
following officers were elected: Superintendent
Nellie Colebrook; Counselors, Mattie Horne and
Ella-Wilcox; Secretary, Lizzie Green; Treasurer,
Bealah Woodruff.
	ON Tuesday evening, Jan. 24, a special meet-
ing of the 13th Ward convened at the Ward As-
sembly Rooms, Bishop M. M. Atwood presiding.
Counselors N. Empey and F. Platte were pres-
ent, also H. G. Park, President Y. M. M. I. A.
of the Ward, President J. H. Felt and Coun.
George C. Lambert of the Stake organization of
Y. M. M. I. A. were present by invitation, also
M. A. B. Freeze and her Counselor, Louie Felt,
of the Stake organization of Y. L. M. I. A.
President Park tendered his resignation to the

[Column 2]

meeting, which was accepted, and the Bishop
proceeded to organize the young men and women
separately. Remarks were made by Elders J.
H. Felt and G. C. Lambert, and by Prest. Joseph
E. Taylor, of the Presidency of the Salt Lake
Stake, concerning the order and benefit of these
organizations; also by Sisters E. B. Wells, M.
A. B. Freeze and L. Felt, The following officers
were elected fer the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 13th
Ward: President, Miss Ruth Woolley; Counsel-
ors, Miss Kate Wells and Miss Alpha Eldredge;
Secretary, miss Loue Wells; Assistant Secre-
tary, Miss Louie Naylor; Treasurer, Miss Bessie
Spencer.
	We had the pleasure of attending the R. S.
Quarterly Conference of Davis Stake on Friday,
Jan. 20, held at Centreville Meeting House, in
company with Mrs. M. I. Horne. Meeting con-
vened at 10a.m., Mrs. Sarah I. Holmes presid-
ing. Her Counselors, Mrs. Mary S. and Nancy
A. Clark, were present, also the Secretary, Miss
Minerva Richards. The minutes and reports
were interesting and creditable. Verbal reports
were given by the respective officers from most
of the several branches of the Stake. Bishop
N. Cheney, Patriarch Tibbets and many other
brethren were present. Addresses were deliv-
ered by several of the local sisters, and by Sisters
Horne and Wells, on subjects calculated to en-
courage and strengthen the sisters in the Gospel
work.
	After the adjournment of the R. S. Confer-
ence a Conference of the Primary Associations
of Centreville was held at the same place, Mrs.
Aurelia S. Rogers presiding. The children
seemed greatly interested in their meetings,
and their singing was excellent. They answered
the questions asked them very promptly. The
Bishop manifested great interest in teh labors of
the sisters in both the Relief Society and Pri-
mary Associations. The children of the two P.
A's at that place held two concerts last summer,
and from the proceeds gave fifty dollars to the
new Meeting House. They are now engaged in
helping to make rag carpeting for the building.
	A Conference of the Young People's Asso-
ciations was held in the Assembly Hall Sunday,
Jan. 22, 1882, commencing at ten a.m., Supt.
Joseph H. Felt presiding. After the devotional
exercises, minutes of last Conference were read,
and a statistical and financial report of each As-
sociation. The speakers were Elders J. H. Felt
and H. Moyle, Sisters E. S. Taylor, M. A. B.
Freeze and E. B. Wells. The ladies in speaking
referred to the greater benefits resulting from
separate organizations, but also expressed them-
selves as favorable to conjoint meetings once a
month. Mrs. Wells made a suggestion that a
committee be appointed to secure lecturers for 
the Young Ladies’Associations. Counselor G.
C. Lambert presented the general authorities
and Stake officers of the Y. M. M. I. A., who
were unanimously sustained. John A. Evans
was appointed Secretary in place of John Q.
Cannon, who is absent on a mission to England.
	Afternoon session: After the opening exer-
cises, Coun. G. C. Lambert announced that the
suggestion made in the morning with regard to
a ladles lecture committee had been approved,
and accordingly Sisters E. B. Wells, E. S. Tay-
lor and L. H. Miner were sustained as such com-
mittee. Apostle Wilferd Woodruff addressed
the congregation for a short time, and was fol-
lowed by Prest. Joseph F. Smith; both speakers
were Inspired by the Spirit of God.	
	Prest. John Taylor occupied a few minutes,
during which he said, “We want to raise a race
of men and women whom the ancient Apostles,
Prophets and men of God will not be ashamed ;
of. And we call upon the youth of Zion to
maintain their integrity, purity and sobriety,

[Column 3]

and seek to honor God, that they may be worthy
sons and daughters of Zion."
	Elders J, F. Wells, R. B. Young and R. C.
Badger each spoke a few minutes, expressing,
the firm conviction that the youth of Zion would
unflinchingly maintain the faith of their fathers
and mothers. Conference adjourned subject to
the call of the general or Stake officers. Choir
sang an anthem. Benediction.


OBITUARIES.

	Mrs. Martha J. Coray, the wife of Howard
Coray, passed behind the vail on the 14th Dec.,
1881, at 11 p. m., at Provo. She died as she had
lived, a strong and firm believer in the Gospel
as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
She was born on the 3d day of June,1821, Boone
County, Kentucky. Her father, when she was
a mere child, moved to Carthage, Ohio. Her
straightforward and honest way of doing things,
joined with more than ordinary clearness of
perception and understanding of matters and
things in general for one of her tender age, at-
tracted the attention of some of the most noted
of the place, for instance, Rev. Walter Scott,
Levi H. Jameson and others, and at the age of
about ten she was placed in charge of a class,
much older than herself, in a Sunday School,
and she filled the position so ably, that she won
for herself no small degree of praise. At the
age of twelve she applied for admission by bap-
tism into the Campbellite Church; but on ac-
count of her age, they held the matter a short
time under advisement before receiving her,
notwithstanding she was altogether qualified,
so far as information and a sound, moral, Chris-
tian character was concerned. Very early in
life she evinced a character in a degree some-
what rare for one of her sex—that is, of decid-
edly doing her own thinking; hence, before
adopting any principle of religion, law or politics,
whether proposed by father, husband, priest, or
king, she must clearly see and understand for
herself the righteousness and consistency of the
matter. Her father moved to Hancock Co., Ill.,
and was living there when the Mormons were
driven out of Missouri in 1838; and being a very
kind and hospitable man, gave employment to
quite a number of the Saints, besides furnishing
several families houses to live in. This brought
her face to face with Mormonism. Mingling
and associating more or less with those families
and the men in her father’s employ, she attended
their meetings and heard Brother George A.
Smith preach, who, as she said, set forth the
principles of the Gospel in such a plain and un-
mistakable manner as to completely upset all her
Campbellism and convert her to the principles
of what is called Mormonism. So, in January,
1840, a hole was cut through the ice, and herself
and a few others were baptized, the weather be-
ing so cold at the time that immediately after
one was baptized, the place would skim over
with ice. I mention this circumstance as it
evinces in some degree the courageous determi-
nation of the woman to grapple with and over-
come difficulties that interposed between her
and a religious, conscientious duty, exact and
truthful in all her business transactions in life.
After joining the Church, she soon became ac-
quainted with the Prophet Joseph; she said that
before he was pointed out to her as the man, she
could discern something in him of such a pecu-
liar character that she knew who he was, and
from her unbounded confidence in him as the
man of God, she took in common hand every
discourse that she heard him preach, and has
carefully preserved them. Bro. Geo. A. Smith
said that she had taken more pains to preserve
the sayings of the great Prophet, and had accom-
plished more in that direction than any other


[Column 1]

woman in the Church. She was married to
Howard Coray Feb. 6, 1841, and was the mother
of twelve children, seven sons and five daugh-
ters, all of whom have grown up to man and
womanhood, and it can be said in all truthful-
ness that there is not one profligate son nor way-
ward daughter among the whole of them; and a
liberal share can be accorded to her in their
bringing up, education, &c. She has given
much gratuitous labor in behalf of the young
and rising generation, their proper training and
education. She was Mother Smith's amanuen-
sis in writing a book entitled, "The History of
Joseph Smith, by his Mother, Lucy Smith."
She has received about all the blessings that are
conferred in the House of the Lord, and has
gone to await a glorious resurrection. In Octo-
ber, 1875, she was selected by Pres. B. Young as
one of the Trustees of the B. Y. Academy, which 
appointment I believe she filled altogether satis-
factorily. The funeral services were held Snu-
day morning, Dec. 18, at 10 o'clock, in the Tab-
ernacle at Provo.—[Ex.
	Mrs. Coray was an occasional contributor to
the EXPONENT; a very able and vigorous writer.
She felt strongly, and she expressed herself im-
pressively in speaking or writing. She spoke
intelligently on all subjects, never waiting a
moment for words, for she possessed in a rare de-
gree the gift of language. She was pretty well
versed in the law, and political economy was
one of her favorite themes. She had many true
friends and a large number of relatives, who
sincerely deplore her loss here, but she has gone
where a wider sphere of usefulness awaits her,
and where there is no more pain forever and
ever.
	Died, in Ogden, Dec. 5, 1881, Sister Ellen Mc-
Kay. Deceased was born in London, England,
Jan. 25, 1835. She was baptized into this Church
in 1866, and emigrated to Utah. In 1869 she re-
moved to Ogden, where she remained until her
death. She was a zealous advocate of the prin-
ciples of the Everlasting Gospel, and a firm be-
liever in the order of Celestial Marriage.
	Sister Ellen was a faithful member of the Re-
lief Society, and had been a Teacher in the 2d
Ward Society for nine years, and was also a Sec-
retary for some time, performing every duty and
labor cheerfully. She was ever happy under all
circumstances, buoyant in spirit and very sus-
ceptible of spiritual influences, which made her
a pleasing companion and associate to all those
who possess a reverence for divine things. Our
sister will be greatly missed in her home and in
the Relief Society. She was a woman of great
faith in the healing of the sick by administration
according to the order of the priesthood. Sister
Ellen has gone to the rest that remains to the
people of God, in the blessed hope of a glorious
resurrection.—COM.

	It is with feelings of the deepest sympathy
that we communicate to you the death of one
of our number, Mary Mettie Terry, who died
Jan. 2, 1882, of quick consumption. She was
the daughter of Andrew and Annie M. Peter-
sen, and was born in Fairview, Nov. 21, 1862;
was the wife of Adolphus Terry, to whom she
was married about two years previous to her de-
cease. Mary was loved and respected by all
who knew her, and during her short stay here
set an example before her associates well worthy
of imitation. She took an active part in the
Sunday School as teacher and in the Y. L. M.
I. A. as treasurer, and though we deeply mourn
the loss of so dear a friend, yet we feel to say,
"The Lord's will be done."

	Dear sister Mary, we bid you adieu!
		Though we feel a regret thus to part, 

[Column 2]

	We've this consolation: you've ever been true
		And kept a brave spirit and heart.

	Then weep not, nor mourn, for her that we miss,
		Her mission on earth being ended,
	She has gone to a realm of infinite bliss,
		Where truth, love and beauty are blended.

	ANNIE D. CHRISTIANSON.
Fairview, Jan. 18, 1882.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

SPRINGVILLE PRIMARY.

	A meeting of the 2d Ward Primary Asso-
ciation of Springville was held Saturday, Jan.
21, 1882, the birthday of our beloved and ven-
erable elect lady, Sister Eliza R. S. Smith.
After the exercises, which consisted of select
readings, recitations, dialogues, reading of man-
uscript paper, "The Children's Gem," and in-
teresting remarks by Sister Ann Bringhurst,
the tables were uncovered, displaying a boun-
teous repast for the little folks, which was in-
deed a joyful surprise to them. After the
blessing was asked upon the food, the children
were invited to partake thereof, which they
gladly did, enjoying the feast and each other's
society. The number of children was fifty-five.
Much credit is due to the President and Coun-
selors of the Association for their untiring ef-
forts to please and benefit the children. After
the children had partaken of the dinner, the
President and lady officers and a few friends
also partook of the good things, and all ex-
pressed themselves as being well pleased with
what the sisters had done for the children, and
hoped their efforts would be crowned with suc-
cess in training them in virtue and wisdom.
	Circumstances prevented the Bishop and his
Counselors from being present.
	Sarah Waters, President.
	Sarah Mainwaring,
	Elizabeth Bramall, Counselors.
	Susannah' Wakefield, Secretary.

		MANASSAH, COLORADO
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of this place was organized
on the 17th of October, 1880, a special meeting
being called for the purpose of organizing the
young people; President Silas S. Smith presid-
ing. After the usual opening exercises the
Young Men's accosication was organized; after
which Sister Somantha T. Boice was chosen
President of the Young Ladies' Association.
The organization was also completed at that
time, but on account of some of the officers
moving away, some changes have been made
and the officers are at present as follows: So-
mantha T. Boice, President; Alice Sellars and
Mary Haggard, Counselors; Letitia Thomas,
Secretary; Bettie Sellars, Treasurer.
	We have twenty members enrolled, who seem
to be alive to their duties in learning all they
can, so that they may be enabled to assist in
carrying on this great work that we are en-
gaged in; our President is ever ready and will-
ing to do her duty, and is in earnest in her en-
deavors in trying to help build up the king-
dom and instill into the minds of the young
principles of righteousness. Since our organ-
ization we have also been enabled to acquire
means with which we have bought $14.80
worth of books; also subscribed for the Wo-
man's Exponent and Juvenile Instructor each
one year; have donated to the poor $2.50, and
we have on hand at present in the treasury
four quilts, for sale or to give to the needy, as
occasion may require. During the summer
months we hold monthly meetings; but at
present we meet with the young men every
Wednesday evening in conjoint meetings, which
are well attended by the members and also


many visitors. We edit a manuscript paper
once a month, which is quite interesting.
	Hoping this will prove satisfactory, I will
close.
	LETITIA M. THOMAS, Sec'y.


THE POWER OF PRAYER.

	Prayer is the key that will unlock the state-
house of knowledge.
	It is the foundation rock of every Christian's
life; and we can safely say that there is no one
that can attain to a position of usefulness in
the kingdom of God without knowledge.
	We learn that our Savior, whom we should
all chose as our pattern, prayed often, and in
the Gospel according to St. Luke, chap. 22,
verses 39 and 40, after He had administered
the last supper to His Apostles, we read: "And
He came out and went, as was His wont, to the
Mount of Olives, and His disciples also fol-
lowed Him; and when He was at the place He
said unto them, 'Pray, that ye enter not into
temptation.'"
	We learn from these few words spoken by
our Savior, that prayer is also a safeguard, that
will withhold us in the hour of temptation,
from doing evil.
	Through prayer, our faith is strengthened
and our powers of comprehension are quick-
ened, and we receive power to discern good
from evil.
	Through prayer, we are led to search for
truth, and learn to love and keep the laws of
righteousness laid down in His Church and
Kingdom, through which we may be brought
back into the holy and divine presence of our 
God.
	Through prayer, the windows of heaven un-
close, and blessings are showered down upon
our heads and upon those we love and pray
for.
	Through prayer, the darkness that had hov-
ered over this earth for ages burst, and the
light of everlasting truth shone forth; for it
was while Joseph Smith, then but a boy, was
praying to God to know which of all the differ-
ent doctrines that he had heard preached was
true, that truth was revealed, that those who
lived in the days of Joseph, the Prophet,
should know the truth, and for generations to
come.
	If you will read the Bible, the Book of Mor-
mon, and other good books, you will learn that
all good and great people were those who
prayed to God; for it is the only way to become
good and great. And; my young friends, it is
well for you to remember, while traveling on
this journey of life, that there is no prison so
dark, no pit so deep, no expanse so broad, that
the Spirit of God cannot enter; and when all
other privileges are denied us, we can pray,
and God will hear us. No one can take this
from us. But remember it is a most precious
gift, it is something that must be cultivated;
and when the still, small voice whispers, "Go
and pray," you must obey; for if you do not, 
the Spirit will be grieved, and the voice in time
becomes silent.
	Should you at any time find yourself over-
whelmed with disappointment and sorrow, re-
member, that although your prayers may be
like the wailings of the most feeble infant, God,
being more loving than the most tender mother,
will hear and answer you. But we cannot say
that He will always answer according to the
desires of your mind; but in His great wisdom
He sees and knows what is for your best good,
and will answer according to His wisdom.
	To the young we will say, be prayerful; ask
God to inspire your hearts with noble aspira-
tions, and to help you to become good and
great in His Church and Kingdom. And
when you are done with this life, may you find
that spirit of peace which was with our Lord


when He appeared to His disciples, after the
resurrection, when He spoke those sweet words,
"Peace be unto you."
	May god give you His Spirit, that you may
seek unto Him, is my prayer, in the name of 
Jesus.  Amen.
	Your loving sister,
		E. G. JONES.
