Guide Lessons
======================================================================

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in May CHILDREN AND THE BOOK OF MORMON. We frequently hear it said that woman's hour has struck. True as this is of the woman, it is equally true of the child. If women have been ignored in the past, so, too, have children. Today the child commands an important place in educational and social philosophy. In her fight for political recognition, woman has always put forth the fact that her wish for political power is based, in no small measure, on her desire to protect the child from the crushing wheels of industrial tyranny. We doubt if life holds anything more truly attractive and more distinctly charming than the child, and yet we had to wait for the advent of Charles Dickens to have the little child really magnified in literary art. To be sure, the Mother Goose melodies and such stories as "Little Red Riding Hood" did not ignore the child, but the class of literature has grown with the race and, consequently, is no deliberate effort to recognize it; Charles Dickens was deliberate in his portrayal of child life; in his novels he sought to arouse the public conscience against many abuses then borne by children. In the Bible, three children stand out prominently: Samuel, David, and Jesus of Nazareth. Something specific is known concerning the individual life of each of these children. Let us see if it is possible to find anything specific about the individual lives of the children of the Book of Mormon. It may be a matter of passing interest to know that the words boy and girl were never found to be necessary to translate the Book of Mormon. To be sure, Nephi, the son of Lehi, was very young when he played the important role he did in Nephite history; still we can scarcely regard him as a child. He had certainly reached that stage when he would be styled a youth, even as the boy prophet, Joseph Smith, is styled a youth. Again, we have Lehi speaking to Jacob and saying, "In thy childhood thou hast suffered much affliction and much sorrow because of the rudeness of thy brethren," yet that appears to be the one GUIDE LESSONS. 241 sentence that throws light on his childhood. Nearer the point is the record we find in Mormon 1:2-4: "And about the time that Ammaron hid up the records unto the Lord, he came unto me (I being about ten years of age; and I began to be learned somewhat after the manner of the learning of my people), and Ammaron said unto me, I perceive that thou art a sober child, and art quick to observe; "Therefore, when ye are about twenty and four years old, I would that ye should remember the things that ye have observed concerning this people; and when ye are of that age, go to the land Antum, unto a hill, which shall be called Shim; and there have I deposited unto the Lord, all the sacred engravings concerning this people." "And behold, ye shall take the plates of Nephi unto yourself, and the remainder shall ye leave in the place where they are; and ye shall engrave on the plates of Nephi, all the things that ye have observed concerning this people." A truly wonderful commission to give to a boy of ten, was it not? So much for the very little information we are in possession of in regard to the individual child. A large part of the very meagre material that we have concerning the children of the Book of Mormon affects the child in group or in mass. There is considerable evidence that both the fathers and the mothers were greatly exercised over the children in time of war and famine. In such particulars human nature suffers no change. In the terrible war through which we have just passed, the children of Poland, Serbia, Belgium, and France, have often called for our deepest sympathy. Women in the large cities of the world are terrified at the slightest indication of labor trouble, lest the children may be deprived of milk, and thus deprived, sicken and die. The women of the Book of Mormon were, no doubt, victims of the same fears and misgivings, through all the trying scenes through which they were called to pass. In the heart-sickening account given of the last struggle of the Jaredites, we read: "And it came to pass that when they were all gathered together, every one to the army which he would, with their wives and their children; both men, women and children being armed with weapons of war, having shields, and breast-plates, and head-plates, and being clothed after the manner of war, they did march forth one against another, to battle; and they fought all that day, and conquered not." Fortunate it is that we are not compelled to close our lesson with the revolting picture of little children, armed and fighting in a great battle, destined to destroy their race, but that, like Shakespeare, 242 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. we may say, "Look on this picture and on that" (Ether 15:15). The picture we close with is that which followed the great day of healing, when, in their gratitude, the people gathered about the Son and bathed his feet with their tears: "And it came to pass that he commanded that their little children should be brought. "So they brought their little children and sat them down upon the ground round about him, and Jesus stood in the midst; and the multitude gave way till they had all been brought unto him. "And it came to pass that when they had all been brought, and Jesus stood in the midst, he commanded the multitude that they should kneel down upon the ground. "And it came to pass that when they had knelt upon the ground, Jesus groaned within himself, and saith, Father, I am troubled because of the wickedness of the people of the house of Israel. "And when he had said these words, he himself also knelt upon the earth; and behold he prayed unto the Father, and the things which he prayed cannot be written, and the multitude did bear record who heard him. "And after this manner do they bear record: the eye hath never seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous things as we saw and heard Jesus speak unto the Father." And so, upon this continent, even as in the land of his nativity, did Jesus bless and exalt little children. No matter how grossly they may have been neglected by historians, philosophers, and men of letters, in the past, the Son of Man did not neglect them. He told of their purity, and how they were without sin, and redeemed from the fall through his atonement. The Church possesses no clearer and plainer doctrine in all its literature than that found in the Book of Moroni, chapter 8, concerning the redemption of little children, wherein he tells us that, "little children are alive in Christ, even from the foundation of the world; if not so, God is a partial God, and also a changeable God, and a respecter to persons; for how many little children have died without baptism." "Wherefore, if little children could not be saved without baptism, these must have gone to an endless hell. "Behold I say unto you, That he that supposeth that little children need baptism, is in the gall of bitterness, and in the bonds of iniquity." Christ's tenderness and compassion for little children comes ringing through the ages, in his immortal words, "Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." GUIDE LESSONS. 243 PROBLEMS AND QUESTIONS. 1. What are some of the abuses little children suffer, in modern times, that make child welfare associations necessary? 2. How old must a child be in Utah before it is permitted to work in a factory? 3. Give some reasons for women and children receiving such scant recognition in the histories of the past. 4. How does the child Mormon compare with any boy or boys you have known of ten years of age? 5. Why are little children frequently the greatest sufferers in all disasters that overtake civilization? 6. Read the 8th chapter of Moroni in class, beginning with paragraph 10. 7. How did the doctrine of the salvation of little children, as set forth by Moroni, differ from the teachings of Christian churches at the time the gospel was revealed? 8. What abominable practice, in relation to children, did the Jaredites resort to in their last struggle? 9. Read the account of Christ's blessing little children, when he was with the Jews. 10. Read or sing the Sunday School song, "Suffer Little Children to Come Unto Me." LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in May. LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in May. SURNAMES DERIVED FROM OFFICES AND PROFESSIONS. Teachers' Outlines. (See Chap. 16, Surname Book.) The Norman barons who came over with William the Conqueror appropriated all the court offices and paying professions. Hence such surnames usually derive from Norman stock. Surnames derived from: 244 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. (a) Military offices. (b) Church officials. (c) Landed barons and their retainers. (d) Civil and legal professional names. (e) Forestry office-holdings. Lesson Statement. The Norman barons who came over with William the Conqueror appropriated all the court offices and paying professions. Indeed, it would be quite truthful to say that William and his nobles invented court offices and professions of all kinds so as to derive salaries from the government and also to acquire titles to satisfy their vanity and pride. Then they used their titles and offices and social positions to oppress and humiliate the conquered Anglo-Saxons. In other words, the Anglo-Saxons were the hewers of wood and the drawers of water, while the Norman professionals, officials and nobles, were the classified nobility and gentry who ruled England under their king. The king himself multiplied officers and flunkies in every conceivable direction in his several castles and palaces. The man who tasted his food, the man who cooked it, the man who served it, the man who purchased it, and all the men who sat by him and ate it received titles of greater or lesser degrees according to their condition and the favor of the king himself. First of all there were military offices. The soldiery were the noblest of the noble, and barons and knights, lords and earls, dukes and counts were bearers of arms under the king. From all of these, surnames have been derived. Next came church officials, arch-bishops and bishops. Priests and ministers received a more or less sumptuous living as the gifts of the king, and although celibacy is a fixed tenet of the Catholic Church the offices borne by priests who were sometimes fathers outside of marriage gave surnames to descendants. Next were the officials in civil and legal forms of social life. Clerks and lawyers, doctors and apothecaries, all helped to swell the list of surnames through descendants carrying on permanently the ancestor's profession tacked onto his original name. The English nobility, that is the Norman English nobility, have always been extremely fond of hunting, so that great stretches of forest were kept intact on estates where wild animals might roam and serve their royal masters as prey in a "chase." Officials who kept the forest or the toll-gate and who looked after the dogs and the horses and who rode to the hunt or to the tournament? all these furnished some surnames amongst the English people. GUIDE LESSONS. 245 It must also be stated that what the king did in his more magnificent homes and estates was imitated by all his under lords, barons and knights. They had their officials and flunkies with titles and offices in close imitation of their royal masters. QUESTIONS. Who were the Norman barons? Why did the Normans appropriate the court offices and paying professions? Name some military offices which have furnished surnames. What can you say of church dignitaries and surnames derived therefrom? Name some church surnames. What is the difference between civil and legal professions? What surnames derive therefrom? What is the meaning of Woodreeve? Describe an English chase. Name some officials connected with hunting. Relate the manners and customs as well as you can of an English baron in the middle ages. Why would the knights and barons copy the manners and customs of the king? Who were the aristocrats in England at that time? What is an aristocrat? LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in May. ADOLESCENCE. The actual duration of the period of adolescence extends up to the twentieth year, during which certain substances, secreted by various glands, circulate in the blood and stimulate remarkable developments. Adolescence may be defined as the process of growing up from childhood to manhood and womanhood. It generally extends in the life of a boy from about 11 to 24 or 25 years, and that of a girl from about 12 to 21 or 22 years of age, but there are considerable individual variations. Too often the term of adolescence is confined to the period of puberty, which is but one stage in the process of adolescent growth. Each phase must be lived through, if maturity is to be complete; should normal processes be arrested, warped or overstimulated, development is unbalanced and maturity is consequently incomplete. The actual incidence of puberty is much 246 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. influenced by race, climate, nutrition and type of environment; for instance, this period is hastened by overstimulating diet, heat, and abnormal excitement associated with life in a city or town. There is no closely defined age law for this stage of development; in fact, it may vary with individuals all the way from the age of 12 up to that of 17 or 18, and yet be normal at these different age periods. For example, a boy or girl may be immature at 17, while another will reach puberty at the age of 13. Thus individuals, though externally similar, are actually widely different in capacity for self control, concentration, endurance and exertion; qualities much strengthened after this stage has been attained. Dr. Ward Crampton's Tables show that, at the same chronological age, the mature boy is more than 33 percent heavier, 10 percent taller, and 33 percent stronger than the immature; that is, than his companions who have not yet arrived at puberty. Adolescence may be divided into three periods, described by their distinguishing characteristics as follows: (1) Consolidation, (I) Consolidation, or the age of adjustment, extending from about the 10th to the 14th year. This period is marked by a steady growth, increased muscular coordination, good health and a receptive memory, which makes the child peculiarly adaptable to the formation of habits that will prove of lifelong benefit. Good building stones in the platform of Adolescence are similar to those for earlier childhood, namely: (1) Regular schooling, (2) Muscular exercise, (3) Varied surroundings, (4) Good food, (5) Abundant sleep. (II) Crisis, or puberty, is the second period in adolescence, and covers the interim between fourteen and eighteen, in which growth is extremely rapid; there is a considerable amount of mental perturbation combined with a tendency to certain physiological disturbances. The process of transition from girlhood to puberty is of greater complexity than in the case of boys, therefore, while it is beneficial for the latter to be abundantly active and constantly occupied, girls need more leisure and repose, sufficient but supervised exercise, and precautions against competitive exertion, mental or physical. Full as it is of contradiction and exaggerations, with inevitable instability, this phase has been nevertheless described as a physiological second birth. It is the golden age of life in healthy natures. Feelings are intense, though usually short lived; a craving for sympathy is accompanied by corresponding reserve; lines of development take new directions and changes are very sudden both in body and mind. Some of these normal changes may be briefly enumerated: (1) Physical developments at Puberty. (a) Greater blood pressure consequent on rapid growth in size of the heart, (b) Slight rise in body temperature; (c) Increase of red blood corpuscles; (d) Bust development and rapid growth of hip bones in girls; (e) Change of features, etc. There is often perversity in respect of judicious care of health in both sexes at this age and fanciful fads in appetite. Weak points, such as eye strain, lung delicacy, etc., may manifest themselves, often the deferred results of early mismanagement, hitherto unperceived, or tendencies inherited from ancestors. (2) Mental developments of Puberty. (a) All the senses become more acute. It is (b) the Period of hero worship and ideals; of (c) Resentment against authority, of (d) Intense but short lived selfishness; of (e) Sudden growth in sense of responsibility; of (f) Religious emotion, of (g) Love of solitude, of (h) Self consciousness; which phases alternate and continue for varying periods, often causing great perplexity and tension to parents, teachers or employers. (III) Construction is the third period, one as little popularly recognized as the first, but of immense importance. This period extends until physical growth is complete, and should be distinguished by steady development of the controlling capacity of the brain. Between the years of 18 and 23 or 24, there should be a marked development of self control in every relation. This quality must be stimulated and regulated along right lines, to diffuse high moral standards and a universal sense of civic duty. Selfishness is anti-social and barbaric. The brain faculty of most life long importance is control of self; this calls for special training in these years or the results are serious to men and women, who become mature in respect of animal passions, but remain at childhood's level in regard to self control. The tendency to release young people prematurely from all physical control must be checked. Implicit obedience of course can no longer be imposed, but should be superseded by sympathetic suggestion; and unrecognized but nevertheless constant supervision. The undesirable is sometimes attractive because of narrow experience. More experienced elders must divert attention to the desirable, through well considered substitutions of the safe for the questionably safe. A patient study of adolescence actions often reveals them to be the logical outcome of limited knowledge. The natural craving for companionship should be guided to its satisfaction rather in out door sports and hobbies than in a preponderance of social functions. Late hours and associated excitements stimulate along lines better unemphasized at this period of life. Opportunities for wider and more responsible duties must be gradually introduced, always with the aim in view of producing the efficient adult, rather than the proficient adolescent. 248 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The hygiene of sex must be properly taught, and the instinct to perpetuate life carefully trained. This power is the greatest gift to mankind; curiosity as to its use should be satisfied truthfully and gradually as it arises; and physical passion should be associated with the higher emotions of love, honor, chivalry, and self respect. A sense of responsibility for parenthood should be aroused and provision made for the necessary training of both boys and girls, for the duty of rearing healthy families devolves equally on father and mother, and skilled cooperation of effort is necessary to safeguard child life in the homes of the nation. REFERENCES. Hygiene of the School Child, Terman. Chapts. 16-20-21. Individual in the Making, Kirkpatrick, Chapts. 8-9. Houghton, Mifflin Co., Chicago, Ill. Child Life ? Its Development and Care, A. Ravenhill, page 72, etc., Utah Agricultural College, Logan Utah. QUESTIONS. 1. Into what periods may adolescence be divided and how are these distinguished? 2. What are the special physical requirements of young people during this process of development? 3. How does the period of puberty effect the national problem of Child Labor? 4. What is necessary to the development of self control in maturity? 5. Give an outline of the course of training for parenthood which you consider appropriate. ERRATA. The picture of Mrs. Vilate Kimball in the March number, in "The History of the Organization of the Relief Society," was named as Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney. While there are no meetings The Clean Store is a good time to read S. S. Dickinson Company "Love and Light" QUALITY FIRST By O. F. Whitney Meats and Groceries $1.25 at the SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION Hyland 60, 61 and 62 680 East 2nd South Street BOOK STORE The Book Store of Salt Lake City "R-E-A-L S-E-R-V-I-C-E" 44 East on South Temple Street Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS KEISTER Our Ladies' Tailoring College Simplified System, of Cutting, Fitting, DRESSMAKING AND TAILORING Will give you an occupation or fit you for home duties in that line. Information Free. Visitors Welcome 291 Center Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH LANE ELECTRIC VACUUM CLEANER LET EARDLEY BROS. DO IT 37 East First South - - Salt Lake City, Utah Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDSEN 249 MAIN STREET Better Work Because Better Equipment Established 1877 Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalogue furnished on request 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah "Say It With Flowers" Order from our ever fresh supply. Prompt delivery. Courtesy our motto. Funeral Designs our specialty. CHILD FLORAL CO. With DRUEL DRUG CO. 2nd South and Main. Busy Corner. Phone W. 700 "Best Meals in the City Popular Prices Quick, Clean Service Courteous Treatment STATE CAFETERIA WE SERVE THE BEST ON THE MARKET 121 South Main Street, N. J. Buller, Prop. Wasatch 2444 Salt Lake City, Utah The Big Spring Quarter at the UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Opens Monday, March 24th An excellent opportunity is offered to begin or continue your education. Make a Success in Life as One of the Following: YOUNG WOMEN YOUNG MEN Homemaker Practical Farmer Salesman Home Economics Expert Practical Stock Raiser Auto Mechanic Dietitian Agricultural Expert Gas Engine Expert Teacher Tractor Expert Soils Expert Draftsman Institutional Manager Crops Expert Surveyor Cafeteria Manager Dairy Expert Teacher Social Worker Butter and Cheese Maker Chemist Nurse Animal Husbandman Physicist Electrician Dress Maker Poultry Husbandman Milliner Agricultural Engineer Public Health Expert Musician Expert Machinist Expert Accountant Bookkeeper Iron Worker Bookkeeper Stenographer Foundry Man Business Administrator Cabinet Worker Stenographer Typewriter Accountant Office Manager Banker Typewriter Office Manager Full information regarding the work of the Institution will be furnished upon application to the President, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. Relief Society Magazine Mothers in Israel: ? The Relief Society Magazine greets you: not so much for what you have done as for what you are. Not only for your motherhood, great and glorious as that has been, but also for your wifehood and womanhood. Continue in your simple way of being and doing, for in that way lies the path to the kingdom of heaven. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints No. 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year? Single Copy 10c L. D. S. GARMENTS APPROVED CORRECT PATTERN Prepaid Parcel Post to any part of United States. 15c extra on each garment to Canada or Mexico. THESE approved temple garments are knitted and made right here in our own UTAH FACTORY, to your special order and measurements. Lowest prices on market. Mail your order to us now and say you saw it in the "Relief Society Magazine." Lot No. Price 11 ? Light weight cotton $1.50 20 ? Light weight cotton, bleached 1.70 60 ? Medium weight cotton 1.85 22 ? Medium weight cotton, bleached 2.00 90 ? Heavy weight cotton 2.35 24 ? Heavy weight cotton, bleached 2.60 50 ? Extra white double, bleached Mores 3.00 10 ? Medium weight wool mixture 3.00 16 ? Heavy weight wool 3.50 18 ? Extra heavy wool 5.00 Sizes from 32 to 44 bust, and 52 to 64 length, as desired. Longer than 64 in. or over 44 in. bust, each size 20c extra. Garments with double backs 25c extra per suit, we make any size desired. Measure bust around body under arms, length, from center on top of shoulder down to inside of ankle INFANT SHIRTS ? Silkaline and Lamb's Wool, $1.00 each. State baby's age. MODEL KNITTING WORKS Franklyn Christiansen, Manager 657 IVERSON STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Phone Hy. 616 This beautiful Instrument will be sent to Your Home to charm Your Family evenings and entertain Your Friends when they drop in-IF YOU SAY THE WORD. $100. $12 Down and $8 a Month Including 24 Selections SALT LAKE "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" It's a Treat ? to eat delicious, appetizing, body - building, healthful bread and butter. There is no better food. The loaf of supreme quality is ROYAL BREAD The bread that made mother stop baking Every loaf is perfectly baked to a tempting nut-brown, and comes to grocers ? in every western town ? fresh every day. Royal Baking Co. SALT LAKE THRIFT IS POWER BUY W.S.S. SAVE AND SUCCEED. A thrifty nation is a Gibraltar against the surf of anarchy and revolution and all the destructive forces that follow in the wake of extravagance, thoughtless,  blind living. SAVE AND BUY W.S.S. Victory Liberty Bond stands the Treasury of the United States ? the untold wealth of a vast and powerful nation. That makes it safe! Bach, of every Victory Liberty Bond is the clarion call of duty. That makes it patriotic! Bach of every Victory Liberty Bond is Government interest. That makes it good investment! Buy to your limit ? today