[Vol16 | September 1929 | Sequence: 08a | Category: Article | Title: Developing Moral Judgment | Author: Dean Milton Bennion]

Developing the Moral Judgment A JOINT RESPONSIBILITY OF HOME AND SCHOOL Radio Address Given over KSL in January, 1929 By Dean Milton Bennion, University of Utah Many people, young and old, go wrong because they do not think straight, and especially because they fail to foresee the consequences of what they do.

In every field of business and professional activity such foresight is, at least under modern conditions, absolutely essential to success.

Thus some moral phases of vocational activities may come into the focus of attention because they are inevitably associated with vocational success.

In practice, however, this works in opposite ways.

With unscrupulous individuals it may lead to immoral practices on the assumption that such practices further success.

Thought Controls the Moral Life It is in the leisure time activities of individuals and of social groups, however, that distinctly moral or immoral habits are likely to be developed.

It is also in these leisure time activities that conduct is apt to be most thoughtless.

This may be because thinking is hard work, and leisure time activities are generally sought as means of relaxation.

The remedy evidently lies in doing some preliminary work in deciding upon the kind and the consequences of the leisure time activities to be engaged in.

If these are properly selected, some of them, at least, may be safely indulged in as relaxation.

To what extent is systematic effort being put forth in the home to train young people in moral thoughtfulness?

This queston should be answered for each family, and probably can best be answered by the parents if they will take time to check up on themselves.

We shall undertake to suggest what they may and should do, with the help of their schools, toward developing this phase of education.

There may be times when it is necessary to tell children dogmatically what they must do or refrain from doing.

These occasions should, however, be reduced to a minimum.

It should be the general practice to guide older children, and youth especially, by appealing to their understanding, by making clear to them the probable consequences, both immediate and remote, of various types of conduct and to develop in them a sense of responsibility for these consequences as they affect both themselves and others.

It is evidently the lack of this training that is the cause of much  of the misconduct of the present generation, so much complained of.

This statement is purposely made to include adults as well as youths.

Officers charged with the enforcement of the laws know very well that much of the trouble is due to the thoughtlessness, irresponsibility, and selfishness of grownups as well as of the immature.

Drunkenness Comes From Thoughilessness By way of illustration of such conduct consider the case of drunkenness.

Has any one ever known of a young person who deliberately set out to become a drunkard?

Or have all drunkards become sttch inadvertently and as a rule by seeking sociability and relaxation in their leisure time through moderate drinking with no thought of becoming drunkards?

A scientific answer to this question might be sought by questionnaire and statistical methods.

Probably an offhand reply may be regarded by some as very unscientific; but is there need of such scientific procedure to determine what every experienced observer already knows?

May it not be taken for granted that the beginnings of drunkenness go hand in hand with thoughtlessness?

In this connection it should be noted also that any use whatsoever of intoxicating drinks is to that extent intoxication, and that the foundation habit which results in what is commonly designated as drunkenness is formed during the period of early indulgences in such beverages.

All young people and older people who may be tempted to such indulgence, should be led to understand and picture clearly to themselves the evil consequences both to themselves and to others of the use of alcoholic beverages, In pre-prohibition times the physiological consequences were taught in the schools.

Since then evidently too much dependence has been placed upon the mere force of the law, which force is greatly weakened when numerous people fail to see the justice of the law and the beneficent effects of its general observance.

It is these effects that should be systematically taught in both home and school.

The physiological effects are, of course, important, but manifestly less so than are the economic, mental, and social effects of this type of self-indulgence.

Any person of ordinary intelligence and reasonable degree of self-control who can be led to picture in imagination the ruinous consequences of such indulgences will gladly obey the prohibition laws of the state and the nation.

When this result can be attained through the combined educational efforts of the home, school, and church, the problem of law enforcement, in this particular, will be solved.

Bootleggers cannot do business without patrons.

Morality Arises from Self-Restraint The same method may be applied to the problem of sex relations, with emphasis, however, upon the positive values attainable DEVELOPING THE MORAL JUDGMENT 479 through such relations when properly made as permanent life relations and subject to proper restraints?such restraints as will conserve the highest good of the race and the lasting satisfaction of the individuals immediately concerned.

Young people should be led to think of their own future possibilities as life companions of persons of the opposite sex and, in this connection, of the possible joys of home and family relationships.

In the light of these prospects the destructive forces of prostitution and other illicit sex relations become almost self-evident.

Yet there may be occasions when it is advisable to direct attention specifically to the evil consequences of unchastity.

Because this is generally regarded as a very delicate subject and one that calls for great wisdom in treatment it has been much neglected both in the home and in the schoo!. It is now conceded in theory that the home should be primarily responsible for this phase of education, and that the school should supplement home training and instruction as best it can.* How to Train in Truthfulness A moral education problem of universal concern to parents is that of training young people in habits of truthfulness.

Can this be done successfully by mere command to be truthful or by the fear of punishment for lying?

Students of this question are thoroughly convinced that it cannot.

On the contrary, fear of punishment may have the reverse effect.

Children will very commonly acquire the habit of lying as a protection against punishment.

Many confirmed liars are doubtless made in this way.

Fear of the natural and inevitable consequences of wrong doing doubtless has a proper place in moral training, but fear of humanly imposed consequences which there is a chance of escaping by lying is likely to be more harmful than helpful to moral development.

Training the child to be truthful calls first for a relationship of love and confidence between parent and child together with a developing understanding on the part of the child, as he matures, of why it is wrong to lie.

The reasons grow out of the social consequences of lying on the one hand, and of truth telling, on the other.

It is easy for youths and older children to understand these consequences; how lying tends to break down confidences and undermine the foundations of all business and satisfactory social relations.

The proper test of any type of conduct is to consider its social consequences were it made universal, and then to apply Kant's fundamental principle of conduct: "So act that thou canst will as a rational creature that thy maxim become a universal law of conduct;" or try the golden rule.

Kant's form of stating this Both parents and teachers may obtain helpful suggestions from the American Social Hygiene Association, 370 Seventh Avenue, New York City.

Some bulletins of this organization are sent free on request, while others are sold on a cost or less than cost basis.  principle may be too ponderous for the immature minds; the golden rule may not appeal to a selfish mind; but surely any normal mind of high school age can understand what would happen to society, and especially to business, if every one became a liar.

With this assumption in mind he should readily arrive at a judgment of why it is wrong to lie.

The same procedure may lead to approval and commendation of truth telling as a moral standard.

It is absolutely essential to human welfare and to social progress.

There remains, of course, the task in this as in other cases, of developing the feelings of the child in such a way that he will habitually act in agreement with his moral judgment.

Respect for property rights and the prohibition of theft may be treated in similar fashion.

Children very early and apparently very naturally assert their rights to their own property although they do not so readily recognize similar rights of others.

In this case there is especial need of developing in each child understanding of the golden rule as applied to property; this rule may later be encuged to other forms of conduct where its application is less obvious.

Attaining Harmony at Home A home problem of almost universal concern is that of inharmonious relations between children in the home.

It is not unusual to hear a mother tell of the terrible quarrels and hateful attitudes manifest on the part of a fourteen year old boy toward a sister near the same age, and to note the consolation that comes to many such mothers when they are told that theirs is no unusual family experience.

Perhaps the greatest comfort to parents, however, is to be given some assurance that the children will probably outgrow it.

The facts seem to be that they may or they may not; something should be done to help them outgrow this habit, for such it often becomes.

It is so much an outgrowth of deep seated feeling that development of rational judgment with respect to it, on the part of the child, seems almost hopeless.

The best chance of doing this, however, is not usually in the heat of passion on the part of either the parent or the child; nor is such judgment best developed in public or in the presence of the exciting object.

It had better be undertaken in private with one child at a time and in moments of emotional tranquility.

Persistent efforts of this sort may, in due time, make an impression.

Meantime measures of some sort need to be taken to prevent perpetual family turmoil, serious damaging of dispositions, both of children and of parents, and other possible disastrous consequences to mental health. This may
make necessary on occasion firm commands to abstain from
this variety of torture. When children do not get on well together there can be at least some degree of separation.
They may be given separate, individual work to do until they
can learn the value of harmonious, agreeable cooperation.
The punishment of requiring them to play separately, in case
other companions are not available, may be sufficient to
stimulate a wholesome effort to be agreeable. Throughout
it must be remembered that such measures should be only
temporary means of keeping the peace, and that children
must learn ultimately to work and to play together in the
spirit of friendly cooperation.
The Basis for Thrift Instruction
Another phase of character for which the home is primarily
responsible is that of thrift. This too calls for development
of the moral judgment in connection with training in right
habits. The practical training is, of course, at the foundation,
and is essential to the development of real meaningful judgments
concerning the nature and the value of thrift. It involves
honest earning, reasonable savings properly secured,
and wise spending.
Laws prohibiting child labor are enacted to prevent any
person or corporation from using a child as a means to some
other end than that of his own greatest good. This is a
legal application to children of Kant's principle: "Treat
every person as an end in himself, never as a means." The
child labor laws are, however, not to be understood as meaning
that all kinds of labor are bad for children. Children must
learn to work much as they learn other things. By this
means the child acquires habits of industry and individual
responsibility. He may learn very early to be responsible
for easy tasks ; to begin with, for instance, the care of his
own clothing as he changes morning and evening. To have
a place for his clothing, and of course, for his toys or other
property, and to put things in their proper places, is a foundation
habit in thrift, since it tends to conserve these things and,
more important, still, it conserves time, often the time of others
as well as his own. The reason for this type of thrift may
well be brought to his attention before he enters the elementary
school. When this training has been well done in the home,
and the habit has been somewhat generalized through
thoughtful attention to the reasons therefor, the teacher of
beginners will have occasion to be thankful. Many such
teachers have to assume responsibility for training that rightfully
belongs to parents. The delinquencies of the home
in this respect are sometimes so far reaching as to put a
damper upon the otherwise unsullied joys of a honeymoon, when the slovenly habits of one of the newly wedded pair
may first become known to the other.
Thrift Developed by Industry
The care of clothing and toys is, however, only the beginning
of thrift. The child should early learn something of
cooperative activities and responsibilities through training
in doing his part, a part appropriate to his age and strength,
in carrying on the business of the household. Training in
habits of work and responsibility is best secured by definite
assignment of regular tasks and making it impossible for the
individual to shirk the task assigned him. This training in
work habits should be supplemented with insight into the
necessity of work and the justice of each individual's doing
his part. This is generally made easier if work is used as a
means of training in all phases of thrift, including saving and
wise spending. It is much better for the child that he shall
earn his own pocket money than that he should have it
handed him outright or that he should beg it, as many children
do. A child, may be instructed early in the most profitable
methods of saving as well as of spending. This practical
economics as applied to the individual may be taught in the
home and the foundation laid for reasonable and honest
expenditures in adult life. The all too prevalent tendency
of Americans to spend beyond their incomes or on such a
close margin as to make no provision for living through nonemployment
and sickness periods may be due in some measure,
at least, to want of proper early training in thrift habits and
instruction in the principles of thrift.
Knowledge of Principle Essential
It is the purpose in citing these typical cases of moral
training to call attention to the fact that while training in
moral habits is basic and essential in all phases of moral education,
this alone is insufficient. If desirable habits are to
carry over into adult life and if the individual is to adjust
successfully to new situations, he must have insight into
the moral principles upon which his habits rest or ought to
rest. He should have practice also in reaching conclusions
of his own as to the Tightness or wrongness of any proposed
action. Mere habit is often wholly inadequate to cope with
new or complex situations. In this respect ethics is not unlike
other practical sciences. In the various applications of physical
science to practical affairs knowledge of fundamental
underlying principles is essential. A mechanically trained
person may easily learn to operate a complex machine so long
as it runs in routine fashion, but if anything goes wrong or new conditions arise requiring new adjustments of machinery,
there is call for the services of one who understands the principles
upon which the machinery works.
Life is full of new, complex, and difficult situations.
It is fundamental in moral character that the individual shall
make his own moral decisions. He may advise with others
concerning his moral problems, he cannot, however, delegate
his moral responsibility. Should he not, therefore, be trained
systematically and thoroughly to exercise his moral judgment
and thereby be enabled to decide upon the right course of
action, when such decisions are called for?
Morals a Part of Religion
A system of morals is rightly a part of every great religion.
Every system of morals taught as a phase of religion, however,
should have the added support of reason and experience. No
devotee of a system of religion should hesitate to apply this
test to moral precepts taught him dogmatically. Authority in
morals should not be at variance with reason and experience.
It often happens, however, that one who has been brought up
on dogmatic religion, including morals, comes to be a doubter
of the religious dogmas he has been taught; and, having no
other basis for his system of moral precepts than association
with religious dogma, his disposition is to set aside his moral
precepts also. Thus many individuals have gone on the rocks
morally when they might have been saved from this fate by
early instruction in the rational basis of conduct.
