The call to both heavy duties was most cheerfully met.

Having been active in Church work from the time she was a girl, it was a part of her life, and in response to one of the outstanding characteristics of her nature, to continue her service.

Her first office in the Relief Society was that of secretary.

This office was held soon after the first organization in Idaho was perfected.

Later she was chosen as secretary of the stake Relief Society when the Idaho Falls Stake was organized.

Her further service in the Relief Society was in the capacity of both first and second counselor in the stake organization.

During Sister Brunt's residence in Salt Lake, which covered a period of some years, she was actively engaged in temple work.

Some years before her death she had the rare privilege of again visiting her home in New Zealand.

The object of this visit, in addition to renewing the memories and joys of the past, was to do missionary service for the Church, which was ever so dear to her.

The last three years of her life were spent in her old home in Idaho Falls, where she had lived most of the time for over forty years, and where her children had been reared.

The end came very quietly and peacefully to Sister Brunt on February 14, 1929, Emily C. Brooks: On February 10, 1929, Mrs. Emily C. Brooks died at her home in St. George, Utah.

In her passing and in the review of her life, we are reminded that few women have such an enviable record.

First in her life's accomplishments is her splendid family of twelve children, all intelligent useful citizens and enthusiastic Church workers.

Only one?a daughter ?has preceded her into Eternity.

Sister Brooks' motherly heart included not only her own family, but those of the whole community, for she has served as counselor, ward president, stake president and board member for a period of thirty years.

Her record for public service is seldom equalled.

During the World War, her strenuous work in the Red Cross Chapter, added to the strain of having three boys in the service, caused a nervous breakdown, from the effects of which she never fully recovered.

All her public work was done without the neglect of a single home duty, for her home was always first in her heart?a haven of refuge for her family and friends.

By her sweetness and gentleness she endeared herself to all her associates, and has left a lasting memory among her friends.

Her peaceful death closed the record of a wonderful life.

Leone E. McCune is the author of "The Pioneers" which appeared in the Relief Society Magazine, July, 1929, page 395. It is regretted that her name did not appear with the poem, as its author.