[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: Gift | Author: Williamson]
[Gift Wrapping Elizabeth Williamson]
and  of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands, 
when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon 
the  heads  of  the  parents  (D.  &  C.  68:25). 
The  Church  has  taken  a  major 
part  in  providing,  also,  recreational 
activity  for  children.  Here,  it  seems 
to  me  unfortunately,  parents  have 
turned  over  pretty  much  the  whole 
job  to  the  Church  and  some  of  its 
organizations.  Recreation,  which 
has  such  an  appeal  to  youth,  in  all 
too  many  instances  has  been  taken 
entirely  out  of  the  home.  I  suppose 
it  is  very  often  considered  reaction- 
ary to  look  back  to  the  past,  but  I 
confess  I  cannot  escape  the  convic- 
tion that  more  home  parties,  such 
as  I  knew  in  my  youth,  would  con- 
tribute immeasurably  to  the  happi- 
ness and  betterment  of  both  parents 
and  children. 
Our  Church  teaching  of  youth 
and  much  of  our  recreational  pro- 
gram, fortunately,  have  had  very 
definite  and  specific  aims.  Generally 
and  tangibly,  these  objectives  are 
two  (I  wish  they  were  always  fully 
understood),  first,  missions;  second, 
temple  marriages.  The  first  accords 
with  the  primary  revealed  assign- 
ment to  the  Church  to  spread  the 
truth,  and  the  second  is  in  line  with 
the  next  assignment  to  perfect  the 
lives  of  the  saints,  which  according 
to  our  understanding,  may  be  ac- 
complished only  through  temple 
marriage  and  the  family  establish- 
ments that  follow. 
I  advocate  a  simplified  and  clari- 
fied understanding  of  these  primary 
objectives.  I  realize  that  general- 
izations are  easier  than  specific  reme- 
dies and  formulas,  but  I  am  sure 
there  is  far  less  confusion  and  far 
more  concentration  through  unified 
effort  if  specific  objectives  are  con- 
stantly kept  before  the  people  in  all 
our  procedures.  Just  think  what  it 
would  mean  if  there  could  be  con- 
stantly kept  in  the  forefront  of  the 
thinking  and  aspirations  of  our 
youth  these  two  lofty  objectives, 
a  mission  and  a  temple  marriage. 
Please  do  not  overlook  the  fact  that 
in  the  achievement  of  these  aims 
every  principle  of  the  gospel  must 
be  incorporated  into  the  lives  of 
those  who  succeed. 
TT  seems  to  me  almost  unnecessary 
to  propound  the  question  before 
you  sisters,  ''What  does  temple 
marriage  contribute  to  home  and 
family  life?''  Most  of  you  are  in 
position  to  testify  as  to  the  value  of 
this  unique  concept,  for  it  is  unique 
and  exclusive  with  the  restored 
Church  of  our  Redeemer,  so  far  as