[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Pickering]
The Annual General Relief Society Conference—1954 General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering HE annual general Relief SoT ciety conference was held in the 'Tabernacle, Wednesday and 'Thursday, September 29 and 30. All the stakes and thirteen missions were represented by 1,770 officers—1,733 from the stakes and 37 from the missions. Mission presidents were not in attendance at the conference, but several missions were represented by district presidents. 'The general session - filled the Tabernacle to capacity, with many standing. The Officers Meeting on Wednesday was addressed by President Spafford who gave Official Instructions, and by Elder Henry D. Moyle of the Council of the 'Twelve. Lena W. Glaus, former President of the East German Mission Relief Society, and Leanor J. Brown, former President of the Argentine Mission Relief Society, reported on these missions. The Wells Stake Singing Mothers chorus, Mabel H. Shelley, director, furnished two beautiful numbers. At the Wednesday afternoon meeting from 1:30 to 2:30 P. M., Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve and an advisor to Relief Society, gave an address, after which the theology department program was presented. Music was furnished by a Singing Mothers group from the Provo stakes under the direction of Florence J. Madsen. From 2:45 to 3:45 P. M., department sessions were held simultaneously for work meeting, secretary-treasurers, Magazine, and music departments. The annual reception was held Wednesday evening in the Lafayette Ballroom, Hotel, Utah. 'The music for the occasion was furnished by Sisters Florence S. Allen, Lota Lamoreaux, and Ann Larson. The presentation of the educational courses was continued in the Thursday morning session when the programs for the visiting teaching, literature, and social science departments were presented. Music was again furnished by the Singing Mothers group from the Provo stakes, and by Carl J. Christensen who sang "Invictus." The general session held 'Thursday afternoon included addresses by President Stephen L Richards, President Belle S. Spafford, Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Counselor Velma N. Simonsen, and Aleine M. Young. 'The Singing Mothers chorus of more than five hundred from Bear Lake, Benson, Bountiful, Cache, Davis, Fast Cache, Franklin, Grantsville, Hyrum, Layton, Logan, Montpelier, Mount Logan, North Davis, North Jordan, North 'Tooele, Oneida, Oquirh, Smithfield, South Davis, South Summit, Summit, Tooele, and Wasatch Stakes furnished the music. It was directed by Florence J. Madsen who also directed the Page 799 800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 RELIEF SOCIETY RECEPTION Lafayette Ballroom, Hotel Utah, September 29, 1954 Left to right: General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering; Former President Amy Brown Lyman; Counselor Velma N. Simonsen; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford. Congregational singing of the conference. Elder Frank W. Asper was organist of the conference. 'The large Singing Mothers chorus sang at the Friday sessions of the semiannual conference of the Church. Following the close of the conference, the cornerstone-laying ceremony for the Relief Society Building was held at 4:15 p. M. At the southwest corner of the building on Main Street. President Spafford conducted the ceremony which was witnessed by most of the General Authorities, special guests, and representatives from stakes and missions. 'The program of this historymaking event is published in full in this issue of The Relief. Society Magazine. The Official Instructions by President Spafford and the addresses by the general presidency appeared in the November issue of the Magazine. President Stephen L Richards' address appears as the feature of this issue. 'The address by Elder Mark E. Petersen will appear in the January 1955 issue; by Elder Henry D. Moyle in the February issue; by Aleine M. Young in the March issue. The Relief Society Building Cornerstone-Laying Ceremony Main and North Temple Streets, Salt Lake City, Utah Thursday Afternoon, September 30, 1954 President Belle S. Spafford HE time has arrived for us to T begin our cornerstone-laying ceremony. We are filled with gratitude today to meet under the direction of the First Presidency to lay the cornerstone for the Relief Society Building. We welcome you to these ceremonies. We are honored to have with us the First Presidency, President David O. McKay (and President Richards will be here in just a few moments), and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. We are honored by the presence of members of the Council of the Twelve and the Patriarch of the Church, Assistants to the Council of the Twelve, members of the Council of Seventy, and members of the Presiding Bishopric. We are happy to have with us Sister McKay and Sister Richards, as well as wives of others of the General Authorities. 'The support of these sisters is valuable to us in all of our undertakings. We are very grateful for the presence of members of the General Church Welfare Committee, the Church Building Committee, together with the architect, Bishop George Cannon Young, and representatives of the other Church auxiharies. We also have with us some distinguished guests, including 'The Honorable J. Bracken Lee, Governor of the State of Utah, and His Honor, Mayor Earl J. Glade of Salt Lake City. We have received word that Mrs. Lee would have been with us today had she not had a previous appointment which took her out of the city. Mrs. Glade is in the group, with her daughters. We also acknowledge the presence of Sister Amy Brown Lyman, immediate past President of Relief Society, and a number of former Relief Society general board members. All three members of the general presidency of Relief Society are present and all members of the general board except Leone O. Jacobs who is absent due to illness. At this time we wish to thank Mayor Earl J. Glade and the city commission for closing the street to traffic in front of this building during our services. We will begin our program by singing "High on the Mountain Top." The singing will be led by Florence Jepperson Madsen. Following the singing, President J Reuben Clark, Jr., a member of the First Presidency, will offer the invocation. Invocation President ]. Reuben Clark, Jr. Our Heavenly and Eternal Father, reverently and in humility we, a few of thy servants and thy handmaids, have assembled together today to lay the cornerstone of the Relief Society Building. Our Father in Page 80] 802 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 heaven, wilt thou attend with thy Holy Spirit these services. Wilt thou see that they are conducted in accordance with thy mind and will. Wilt thou cause that there shall be said in the course of these services those things, our Heavenly Father, which shall be more encouraging and further encouraging to the officers and members of this great organization, the greatest of its kind in the world. Our Heavenly Father, we are grateful for their service of the past; we look forward with confidence to their service in the future. Hear us, our Heavenly Father, in this, the opening prayer. Grant to us peace and comfort, and the inspiration of thy Spirit. May we go from here, the Relief Society members particularly, imbued with a determination to go forward in their great work, encouraged, built up, administering to the needs of the poor and to the needy, and to those who need help. We commend these services, our Heavenly Father, into thy kind care and keeping. We ask for these blessings and every other blessing that thou seest we need at this time, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. President Belle S. Spafford For the past nine years the Relief Society building program has held the interest of Relief Society members throughout the world. 'This program has been an important part of the history of the society for this period. It was in September 1945 that the First Presidency, President George Albert Smith, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay, authorized the general presidency of Relief Society, President Belle S. Spafford, Counselor Marianne C., Sharp, and Counselor Gerttude R. Garft, to propose to the Relief Society membership _ assembled in general Relief Society conference, the erection of a Relief Society building. 'The sisters voted affirmatively on the proposition. At the general session of the Relief Society conference in October 1947, the First Presidency authorized the general presidency, President Belle S. Spafford, Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, and Counselor Velma N. Simonsen, to present a financial plan for a sustaining vote of the membership. 'This same year Bishop George Cannon Young was engaged as the architect, and authorization was given to begin preliminary plans. The following year, October 1948, our hearts were filled with thanksgiving to our Heavenly Father and with gratitude to the General Authorities and the presiding Priesthood throughout the Church for their support and encouragement, and to the sisters of Relief Society for their loyalty and magnificent efforts in the fund-raising program which made it possible for us to announce the success of the financial program—the raising of over one half million dollars. It was a happy day, in October 1952, when President David O. McKay advised us, just prior to the opening of our general conference, that the First Presidency, President David O. McKay, President Stephen L Richards, and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., had granted us this choice site on which to erect our building and authorized us to make announcement of this grant to the Courtesy Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF