[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Jacobs]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: ". . . As Ye Have Begun to Teach the Word Even So I Would That Ye Should Continue to Teach" Leone O. Jacobs]
viSiting  cJeacher  1 1  iessages 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  30:  ".  .  .  As  Ye  Have  Begun  to  Teach  the  Word  Even  So  I  would 
That  Ye  Should  Continue  to  Teach  ....  Use  Boldness,  But  Not  Over- 
bearance;  and  Also  See  That  Ye  Bridle  All  Your  Passions,  That 
Ye  May  Be  Filled  With  Love  .  .  ."  (Alma  38:10,  12). 
LeonQ  O.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  March  i,  1955 
Objccti\e:  To  show  the  need  of  being  courageous  in  teaching  the  word  of  God 
and  being  filled  with  love. 
A  LMA,  in  this  passage,  gives  coun- 
sel to  his  son  concerning  his 
conduct  and  its  relation  to  the  suc- 
cessful teaching  of  the  gospel  of 
Christ.  We  are  all  teachers  —  if 
not  directly,  then  indirectly,  by  the 
lives  we  live,  the  examples  we  set 
before  others.  And  thus  Alma's  ad- 
vice can  well  apply  to  each  of  us. 
In  showing  another  a  better  way  of 
life,  it  is  well  to  be  courageous  in 
its  defense,  but  never  should  one 
approach  the  point  of  being  arro 
gant  or  dictatorial.  Love  must  fill 
the  heart. 
Love  is  the  greatest  force  in  the 
world.  More  good  can  be  ac- 
complished through  its  use  than  by 
any  other  medium.  It  is  the  most 
effective  tool  in  combating  evil.  If 
wisely  given,  it  may  often  change 
the  most  wayward  or  stubborn  heart. 
Love  is  constructi\'e  in  nature;  it 
lends  encouragement,  builds  and 
ennobles.  As  President  George  Al- 
bert Smith  often  said,  'Teople  can 
be  lo\ed  into  doing  good.  They  can- 
not be  forced."  Lo\e  is  not  com- 
patible with  anger,  hatred,  or  vice. 
These  must  be  ruled  out  of  life  if 
one  is  to  be  consistently  filled  with 
love.    Either  we  learn  to  control  our 
passions  or  our  passions  will  crowd 
out  much  of  the  love  which  should 
be  in  our  hearts. 
How  may  we  bridle  our  passions, 
as  Alma  advised?  It  is  suggested  by 
some  that  we  concentrate  on  one 
weakness  at  a  time,  determine  to 
control  it  one  day  at  a  time,  and 
soon,  under  this  schedule,  the  weeks 
and  months  will  give  evidence  of 
\ictory.  President  Brigham  Young 
gives  concrete  ad\'ice  on  conquering 
one's  temper: 
There  is  not  a  man  in  the  world  who 
cannot  overcome  his  passion,  if  he  will 
struggle  earnestly  to  do  so.  If  you  find 
passion  coming  on  you,  go  off  to  some 
place  where  you  cannot  be  heard;  let  none 
of  \our  family  see  you  or  hear  you,  while 
it  is  upon  you,  but  struggle  till  it  leaves 
\ou;  and  pray  for  strength  to  overcome  .  .  . 
If  you  first  gain  power  to  check  your  words, 
you  will  then  begin  to  have  power  to 
check  your  judgment,  and  at  length  actual- 
ly gain  power  to  cheek  your  thoughts  and 
reflections  {Discourses  oi  Bngham  Young, 
1946  Edition,  chapter  XXIII,  page  267). 
In  order  to  be  filled  with  love,  one 
must  devote  some  time  to  its  de- 
velopment. In  this  busy  day,  we 
are  very  conscious  of  time.  With 
each  passing  hour  certain  appoint- 
Page  845