[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: As | Author: Kammeyer]
["As Little Children" Virginia M. Kammeyer]

'The major operating cost is the cost of keeping food frozen. A roast that has been kept in the freezer for nearly two years costs several times more than the market price of a fresh roast. Freezers are useful for the storage of ready-cooked foods. By cooking generous quantities and freezing the surplus, a family can eat several times with only slightly more labor costs than for one preparation. Develop the habit of storing packages in your freezer in an orderly manner, thus saving space. Be sure everything is properly packaged. Be familiar with'the amount of food that can be safely frozen at one time. The usual amount is four to six pounds per cubic foot. Food freezes slowly and loses much of its fresh flavor and firm texture if more than this is put in. Each package should be in direct contact with a freezing surface. How often frost should be scraped off the walls of your freezer depends on how nearly packages are vapor proof and how often the freezer is opened. In most cases, defrosting 847 is necessary only once or twice a year. It is easy to do if you remove the frost while it is dry, not icy, and only half an inch or so thick. If you wait longer the freezer must be disconnected until the ice melts. The purchase of a refrigerator also calls for pre-planning and analyzing of needs over a long period. If one has or intends to buy a home freezer, space for general storage of food requiring refrigeration is all that will be needed. The current trend is to have space for the storage of frozen food across the complete upper part of the freezing unit. This convenience is not justified economically if there is a locker nearby. However, if you rent a commercial locker which is some distance away, it would be wise to select a refrigerator with enough freezing space so you can store packages of frozen food in it between your weekly or semi-weekly visits to the locker. You can save money by storing the right kinds of food in your locker. Corn on the cob is definitely in the luxury class, as ninety-two per cent of an ear of corn is inedible. Freezing and storage space cannot be used interchangeably without special packaging, since storage area is maintained at a forty-three degrees temperature, and the freezing compartment at a temperature of zero. Some automatic features recently made in refrigerators cost more than would several additional cubic feet of storage space. Before buying a refrigerator, decide which will serve your needs best. Do not clutter up the refrigerator with foods that do not require refrigeration. Wash vegetables and 848 trim off inedible portions. Remove store wrappings from meat and put in covered dishes or plastic bags. 'To remove a quart of milk from the refrigerator, use one cup of it, and then allow the rest to remain out until it reaches room temperature before putting the quart back, is an extravagant practice. More heat is put back in the refrigerator than if the door were left open until all the cold air escaped. 'This is due to the principle of high heat retention by certain foods. Cold air in the storage area of your refrigerator cannot circulate effectively when food is packed solidly on each shelf. Defrosting a refrigerator is advisable before frost is one-fourth inch thick. Ice on coils acts as an insulator and rapidly cuts down the efficiency of the cooling system and forces the motor to run more. The investment necessary for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 either a refrigerator or home freezer is not small. 'They are pieces of equipment that can return you dividends through wise use, or cost you excessive amounts through misuse. Be sure a reputable dealer is within reach, who will be responsible for having your equipment serviced when and if necessary. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what ways has your refrigerator or freezer contributed toward better living for you and your family? 2. What experiences have you had with your freezer that others might profit by, such as having the freezer on a different circuit than your other large pieces of equipment to avoid blowing fuses? 3. Give handy hints regarding use of deep freezers or refrigerators. 4. Allow for adequate discussion by members. See: "Gardening for the Home Freezer,' by C. W. McCullough, The Reliet Society Magazine, April 1954, page 253; and "Safe Method of Freezing Corn," The Relief Society Magazine, June 1954, page B08: A ane