[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 18 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
Srom lear and Sar My dear mother-in-law gave me a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine four years ago while my husband, who is a naval officer, was stationed in Newport, Rhode Island. It was while we were attending the Newport Branch that I discovered Relief Society.... The presiding elder called me to be president.

What a wonderful experience!... I have been literature class leader for the past year and have been grateful for our San Diego Stake literature class leader, Betty Westwood. I want to add my thanks for The Relief Society Magazine and the inspiring contents thereof, special features, editorials, lessons, poetry, general features, features for the home, etc... I especially want to thank Lucile Tournear for her inspirational story "New Light" in the August Magazine. I shed tears each time I read it. —Sarah L. Hinchcliff Chula Vista Ward San Diego Stake, California I can never explain how I love the little book — the Magazine — for I read it from cover to cover, then the lessons over and over. You put a little piece on the Near and Far page with my name on it. I received a card from one of my friends in Hawaii on a mission, Hazel Poulsen Snow. She is a grandmother and a widow, and I hadn't heard from her for years.

There she was reminded of me by that little book carrying a message in that faraway land! 'Then, down in Florida, Hazel Clark, a friend from Bancroft, saw my name and wrote me a letter. She told me how she loved the Magazine. My near friends also said they saw my name, and a cousin in California I had almost Jost track of. I think it should almost be called a Magazine of happiness. —Zetta H. Ormond Bancroft, Idaho I enjoy the Magazine very -much. As soon as it comes I usually sit down and read it from cover to cover as soon as I can. —Mrs. Heber L. Olson Logan, Utah Page 786 I have six daughters. All are in Relief Society, one president, two social science: class leaders, one theology class leader, one stake board member, and one who helps with the work meetings. I started out as a secretary and have been active ever since. I taught the theology lessons until illness in 1940 prevented me from being able always to attend meetings. Now that I cannot attend meeting, I still enjoy the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. It is so spiritual. —Rebecca Harris Heyburn, Idaho I do so much enjoy all the wonderful articles in the best Magazine of all—The Relief Society Magazine. I get so much pleasure reading each one of the stories and poems, and enjoy the interesting way in which the stories are told of our leading men of the Church. —Mrs. Gladys B. Thomas Pasadena, California The Magazine is so'wonderful I would not want to miss one issue, as each ls read by my family from cover to cover. We live forty-four miles from any organization of any kind and so are not able to get to meetings very often. I do miss my Relief Society very much, as we used to live at Conrad, and I was the president of the first Relief Society ever organized there, five years ago. I do keep up on all my lessons and scripture reading. 'Life would be very unhappy if I did not have my Magazine. —Mrs. Clarence J. Peterson Chester, Montana I love the Magazine and have had many happy surprises from it, finding the pictures of cousins and girlhood frends suddenly looking out at me, and I have thnilled with them at the prizes they have taken. The only fault I have ever found with our Magazine is that there is never enough of it to stretch from one month to the next. —Bernice Edrngton Roosevelt, Utah