[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 14 | Category: General Feature | Title: 82 Editorial The 125th Semi-Annual Church Conference Marianne Sharp]
dred Twenty-Fifth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  held  on 
October  1-3,  1954,  in  the  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square.  The  presence 
and  words  of  two  of  the  General 
Authorities  were  missed— Elder  Ad- 
am S.  Bennion  and  Bishop  Joseph 
Wirthlin  both  of  whom  were  recov- 
ering from  illnesses. 
Great  coverage  was  afforded  by 
radio  and  television  in  Western 
States,  originating  with  KSL  and 
KSL-TV,  and  through  a  closed 
circuit  the  proceedings  of  the 
Priesthood  meeting  went  to  stake 
chapels  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Wyoming, 
Arizona,  and  up  and  down  the 
Pacific  Coast,  where  members  of 
the  Priesthood  were  assembled  for 
this  unusual  opportunity. 
The  spread  of  the  gospel,  geo- 
graphically, was  indicated  by  Presi- 
dent McKay's  extending  love  and 
greetings  to  Church  members  in 
Canada,  Mexico,  Europe,  South 
Africa,  South  America,  New  Zea- 
land, Australia,  the  Polynesian  Is- 
lands, Japan,  China,  Greenland,  Ice- 
land, to  groups  in  Korea,  the  Philip- 
pines, on  Guam,  and  other  islands 
of  the  Pacific. 
In  President  McKay's  opening  ad- 
dress  he   stated   that   he    felt    im- 
Page  822 
pressed  to  say  a  word  of  commenda- 
tion about  what  the  Church  is  do- 
ing to  help  parents  rear  their  chil- 
dren, particularly  the  teenagers  of 
the  Church.  Three  groups  carry 
the  responsibility  of  training  chil- 
dren, he  averred,  first  the  family; 
second  the  Church;  and  third  the 
state. 
President  McKay  stressed  the  fact 
that  the  Lord  has  placed  upon  par- 
ents: 
.  .  .  the  responsibility,  first  to  teach  the 
doctrine  of  repentance;  second,  faith  in 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God;  third, 
baptism  and  confirmation;  fourth,  to  teach 
children  to  pray;  fifth  to  teach  children 
to  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord.  Par- 
ents who  shirk  this  responsibility  will  have 
to  answer  for  the  sin  of  neglect  .... 
The  most  effective  way  to  teach  is  by  ex- 
ample.
