[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: 848 Social Science: The Constitution of the United States — The Bill of Rights — Amendments Five Through Ten Albert R. Bowen]
safed  by  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States,  and  frustrate  the 
plans  of  sinister  men   and  women 
who  have  sinister  motives,  who 
would,  in  any  way,  deprive  the  citi- 
zens of  this  Republic  of  the  liberties 
thou,  through  thy  inspiration  to  the 
founders,  hast  given  to  them.  This 
laying  of  the  cornerstone,  the  seal- 
ing of  the  copper  box  with  its  con- 
tents, the  expression  of  our  gratitude 
to  thee  for  blessings  named  and  all 
others,  we  render  unto  thee  on  this

812 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER   1954 
Courtesy  The  Salt  Lake  Tribune 
PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  PLACES  A  SPIRIT  LEVEL  ON  CORNERSTONE 
OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  BUILDING  LOWERED  INTO  PLACE 
September  30,  1954 
occasion,  invoking  thy  blessings  up- 
on the  Authorities  of  thy  Church 
and  good  men  and  women  every- 
where, in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Lord.    Amen. 
President  Belle  S.  Spafford 
We  will  conclude  our  services  by 
Sister  Madsen  leading  us  in  singing 
''The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire  Is 
Burning/'  following  which  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  an  advisor  to  the 
Relief  Society,  will  offer  the  bene- 
diction. 
Benediction 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Our  Father  who  art  in  heaven,  we 
pray  that  the  action  of  this  day  may 
be  ratified  in  the  heavens.  Be  with 
these,  our  sisters,  who  preside  over 
this  great  organization;  guide  and 
bless  them  and  all  the  membership 
of  this  great  sisterhood,  that  all  that 
they  are  called  upon  to  do  may  be 
accomplished.  We  thank  thee  for 
this  occasion.  Bless,  we  pray,  what 
has  been  done,  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen.

Seek  for  the  Gift 
Beatrice  R.  Parsons 
THE  kitchen  bustled  with  ac-  took  a  paper  napkin  to  wipe  Trud- 
tivity  and  excitement.  It  was  ie's  hands. 
a  few  days  before  Christmas.  When  Martha  was  aHve,  there 
The  children's  eyes  held  dreams,  had  been  pretty  white  napkins  with 
Only  Rod's  heart  was  bruised  and  gay  sprigs  of  embroidery  in  the  corn- 
sore,  ers.      Rod's    eyes    burned    as    they 
How,    he    thought    bitterly,    can  watched  Julie.     "She's  old  enough 
a  man  give  his  children  a  decent  to  miss  her  mother,"  he  told  him- 
Christmas  with  their  mother  gone?  self  painfully.     He  wished  that  he 
His  heart  ached  with  loss  and  pain,  had  let  Mrs.  Jensen,  his  next-door 
Martha    had    been    dead    only    a  neighbor,  stay  all  night  as  she  had 
month.  Silently  he  called  her  name,  wanted  to.    But  he  couldn't  impose 
Martha,  Martha/    Why,  oh,  why?  on  Mrs.  Jensen.     Her  husband  had 
He  had  no  answer  for  that  ques-  a  cold,  and  she  had  her  own  wor- 
tion.  Truths  Rod  had  known  since  ries.  Of  course,  there  were  others 
childhood,  through  adolescence,  who  had  been  helping,  cousins, 
through  his  marriage  to  Martha,  had  neighbors,  and  the  children's  grand- 
completely  disappeared  from  his  parents;  but  Rod  knew  his  problem 
consciousness.  He  had  forgotten  was  his  own  to  solve.  He  thought 
everything  but  his  loss.  Inside  he  with  sudden  despair:  How  can  a 
was  old,  shriveled,  without  hope,  ma"  give  his  children  a  good  Christ- 
Martha  was  dead,  buried  within  the  mas  when  he's  alone? 
white  blanket  of  snow  which  had  He  was  alone  in  that  bright,  gay 
swepc  across  the  cemetery  during  kitchen.  The  children  had  retreat- 
the  night.  ed  into  their  own  little  magic  world 
Rod's  face  was  twisted  as  he  of  Christmas.  Their  eyes  were  shin- 
watched  the  children  eating  break-  )"§  ^'^^  ^'^^^^^  candles,  and  talk 
fast.  Fran,  his  seven-year  old  daugh-  ^^wed  round  the  breakfast  table  m 
ter,  was  eating  oatmeal  without  en-  ^  ^^""'^^  ^^  excitement, 
thusiasm.  It  was  lumpv  because  ^'^  ^^^^  ^^"^^  ^^  ^^^"g  ^^  ^  six- 
Rod  had  cooked  it.  Carefully,  she  §""'  ^^  ^^^  Timmy's  voice,  high, 
pushed  the  lumps  aside.    Rod  had  ^ager. 
made  the  cocoa,  too.    He  knew  bv  '^^  ^^^"*  ^  ^^^V'  said  Fran  haught- 
the   way   five-year-old   Timmy   was  ^^Y-     ''One  that  drinks,   and  wets, 
shoveling    sugar    into    the    mixture  ^"^  everything, 
that  it  was  tasteless.     Martha  had  ''I  wanna  doll,"  cried  Baby  Trud- 
been  such  a  good  cook.  Babv  Trudie,  ie,  banging  her  silver  mug  against 
just  past  one  year  old,  was  drinking  the  aluminum  tray  in  her  high  chair, 
her  milk.     Rod  watched  a  rivulet  She  began  to  cry,  and  Julie  hurried 
run  down  her  torn  bib.     Julie,  his  to  comfort  her. 
eldest  daughter,  ten-going-on-ele\'en,  Rod  noticed,  painfully,  that  Julie 
Page  813

814 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER   1954 
did  not  tell  her  wants.  Her  small, 
pensive  face  was  pale  and  pinched. 
Rod  knew  what  Julie  wanted  most. 
Pain  flooded  over  him.  Why, 
oh  why,  had  Julie's  mother  died?  He 
could  not  stop  asking  it.  There  was 
no  answer.  But  he  needed  one. 
Desperately. 
Rod  was  frightened— agonizingly 
frightened.  He  wasn't  a  homemak- 
er.  He'd  left  that  to  Martha.  Now 
he  was  alone.  Alone  during  the  un- 
interrupted hours  of  the  long,  empty 
nights  when  he  longed  for  the  touch 
of  Martha's  hand  on  his,  the  frag- 
rance of  her  brown  hair  on  the  pil- 
low beside  him. 
Rod  was  confused.  Relatives  had 
offered  to  take  the  children  to  live 
with  them.  He  had  tried  to  think 
what  would  be  best.  The  children 
needed  something  he  could  no  long- 
er give  them.  They  needed  the  se- 
curity of  an  untroubled  home. 
npHE  bleak  bankruptcy  of  hope- 
lessness made  Rod  put  down  his 
newspaper  and  speak  slowly.  ''Chil- 
dren, I've  something  to  tell  you." 
Yes,  his  mind  was  made  up.  He 
could  not  face  Christmas  without 
Martha.  Not  even  the  dinners  and 
trees  that  had  been  offered  so  gen- 
erously by  so  many  people.  He  could 
not  stay  in  the  place  which  meant 
Martha  in  a  million  burning,  hurt- 
ing ways.  He  could  not  hurt  the 
children  by  asking  them  to  stay.  His 
mind  was  made  up.  It  was  better 
this  way. 
His  voice  was  loud,  and  more 
stern  than  he  realized.  ''I  think  it 
would  be  better  for  you  children  to 
live  with  someone  else." 
He  was  shocked  to  see  their  faces. 
Julie's  was  pale  and  still.  Baby  Tru- 
die  didn't  understand.  She  laughed 
and  banged  her  cup  against  her  tray. 
The  noise  cut  into  Rod's  nerves,  and 
his  voice  was  rough. 
"Julie,  you're  going  to  live  with 
Grandma  Henderson.  She  wants 
you  because  you're  so  like  .  .  .  like 
your  mother."  He  had  trouble  with 
the  word,  then  added  quickly:  "She 
can't  take  the  other  children.  She's 
not  very  well."  In  the  face  of  their 
silence,  he  tried  to  make  them  un- 
derstand. "This  is  the  best  way. 
Timmie  will  live  with  Aunt  Ellen. 
Fran  with  Aunt  Margie.  Grace 
wants  the  babv.  You'll  have  a  won- 
derful  Christmas  .  .  .  ." 
"But  how  "will  Santa  know  where 
we  are?" 
It  was  Timmy's  voice,  shaken,  des- 
perate. He  tried  to  hide  tears  by 
rubbing  his  eyes  with  the  back  of 
a  grubby  hand.  Rod  saw  that  Tim- 
my's suspender  buttons  had  come 
off.  One  side  of  his  overalls  hung 
limply  at  his  waist.  Rod  felt  a  lump 
in  his  throat.  He  forced  his  voice 
to  be  calm. 
"I'll  see  Santa  this  very  afternoon. 
I'll  tell  him  your  new  addresses.  I'll 
see  that  he  brings  you  everything 
you  want." 
Every  gift,  he  knew  helplessly,  ex- 
cept the  one  gift  he  could  not  give 
them.  To  be  together  as  a  family 
at  Christmas.  Their  eyes  were  still 
turned  towards  him.  Their  small 
faces  had  not  changed.  They  were 
waiting. 
"It's  not  that  I  don't  want  you  to 
stay  with  me."  If  only  he  could 
tell  them  how  baffled  he  was,  how 
ill  with  his  own  shortcomings.  His 
voice  almost  failed  as  he  continued: 
"I  can't  look  after  you  the  way  your 
aunts  and  your  grandmother  can. 
They  love  you.  They  want  you.  It 
isn't  that  I  don't  love  you,  either."