[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Again | Author: Williams]
[Again It's Christmas! Helen S. Williams]
derful food  from  spicy,  fragrant  kitchens,  Christmas  ^^•elcomes  us  once  again  into  that 
season  of  seasons  when  love  for  each  other  reigns  supreme. 
Fireplaces  and  mantels  are  part  of  the  Christmas  morning  welcome.  What  could 
be  more  heartwarmingly  natural  than  a  Yule  log  fire  burning  brightly  beneath  a  rustic 
mantel  decoration  like  the  one  that  Elorence  W'illiams  has  in  her  hospitable  and 
beautiful  home. 
The  broad  mantel  is  banked  with  soft  green  Ponderosa  pine  boughs,  with  huge 
brown  cones  that  grow  right  on  the  trees.  How  fortunate  you  are  if  you  live  near  a 
pine  grove  where  these  beautiful  old  trees  grow.  What  fun  you  can  have  taking  your 
familv  to  forest  areas  where  permission  for  cutting  boughs  can  be  obtained,  and  gathering 
them  for  Christmas  adornment,  decorating,  and  wrappings. 
Page  828

AGAIN  IT'S  CHRISTMAS! 
829 
Florence  has  banked  the  pines  high  in  the  center  of  the  mantel  because  her  ceiling 
is  high  and  her  mirror  is  spacious.  Three  stars  of  hope  hang  above.  These  are  cut 
from  plastic  foam.  She  trimmed  them  with  sequins  and  pearls,  and  wisely  she  has 
spaced  them  irregularly  to  give  balance  and  interest. 
The  fireplace  mitten  hanging  at  the  side  of  the  fireplace  is  almost  solid  with  the 
gayest  and  brightest  of  sequins  you  could  imagine.  Little  tinkling  bells  edge  the  cuff. 
Florence  thought  the  gay  mit  might  encourage  the  youngsters  to  keep  the  log  box  full 
and  the  fire  constantly  burning. 
Grownups  as  well  as  the  little  ones  warm  to  the  welcome  and  beauty  of  stars  of 
hope,  pines,  and  warm  fires.  Yes,  again  it's  Christmas,  and  once  more  we  tingle  iii  an- 
ticipation of  making  our  homes  and  hearts  ready  to  welcome  neighbors,  friends,  and 
family  to  our  hearthsides. 
A  Table  to  Delight  Children 
'ipHE  Christmas  season  draws  near,  and  with  it  come  ideas,  suggestions,  and  pictures 
-^  for  ways  to  decorate  tables,  mantels,  windows,  and  doors.  Christmas  is  a  glorious 
time  of  the  year,  for  hearts  and  spirits  are  aglow  with  warmth  and  friendliness.  Homes 
seem  to  breathe  a  special  welcome  to  friends  and  families  at  the  Yuletide  season,  and 
all  the  world  is  aglow  with  color. 
Florence  Williams  has  done  this  table  in  the  old  traditional  Christmas  colors,  red 
and  green,  and,  after  all,  they  are  fax orites  for  nearly  e\er\one.  She  has  used  the  symbols 
of  Christmas  that  awaken  memories  of  our  childhood  and  make  us  nostalgic  for  the 
\outh  that  once  was  ours.  If  only  we  had  the  genius  to  recapture  those  days  again  for 
our  loved  ones! 
The  tablecloth,  handmade  of  heavy  linen,  is  of  Christmas  red,  with  Christmas  trees 
of  white  braid  appliqued  on  it.  Wliile  not  all  of  us  own  picturesque  English  Spode  Christ- 
mas tree  plates,  which  add  so  much  to  the  festive  appearance  of  this  table,  we  can  all 
lia\  e  the  glasses  with  snow  scenes  and  individual  names. 
Christmas  decals  can  be  bought  at  stationer)'  or  hobby  shops,  and  these  can  be 
Hal  Rumel 
TABLE  ARRANGEMENT  BY  FLORENCE  WILLIAMS

830  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER    1954 
haiidpainted  to  add  color  and  richness,  then  appHed  to  the  glass.  They  have  their  own 
glue.  If  you  have  a  way  with  sketching,  you  could  draw  your  own  snow  Christmas 
scenes  on  a  piece  of  paper  to  fit  the  base  of  the  glass  perfectly,  then  freehand  the  scene 
with  enamel  paint  to  the  glass.  The  enamel  and  the  decals  hold  up  remarkably  well  for 
several  washings.  Call  to  your  aid  someone  who  prints  or  writes  especially  well  to  do 
the  names  on  your  glasses,  for  if  the  names  are  well  done,  your  tumbler  will  have  an 
added  professional  appearance. 
These  glasses  serve  as  place  cards  and  individual  gifts  for  the  guests  as  a  reminder 
of  the  Christmasy,  hospitable  time  spent  at  your  home  during  the  Yule  season.  Your 
guests  will  love  them. 
The  artistic  candleholders  are  made  of  brass  tubing,  and  their  bases  are  cut  in  the 
shape  of  stars.  Florence  made  a  paper  pattern  for  the  base,  and  then,  with  tin  snips,  had 
no  trouble  cutting  the  brass  in  perfect  shape.  The  tubnig  is  held  in  place  with  drip- 
pings from  the  candles,  or  could  be  glued  with  Amco  glue.  These  holders,  with  their 
bright  red  Christmas  candles,  add  just  the  right  touch  to  these  festive  decorations. 
The  cornucopia  Christmas  trees  were  made  of  fuzzy  green  paper,  but  these  could 
be  made  of  green  felt,  glued  to  stiffened  cardboard.  Tiny  painted  cows,  horses,  men, 
sheep,  and  dogs,  are  glued  to  the  trees.  The  little  figures  delight  the  small  fry.  They 
can  be  purchased  at  dime  stores,  perhaps,  or  could  be  made  of  heavy  cardboard  paper 
and  painted  with  enamel  paint.  On  top  of  each  tree  is  a  wooden  Santa  head  to  gi\c 
the  finishing  touch  for  the  Christmas  look. 
If  Florence  can  create  or  find  all  these  unique  touches  to  do  things  differently  and 
picturesquely — so  can  you! 
The  houses  and  the  figurines  placed  here  and  there  on  the  table  came  from  Sweden. 
They  arc  handcarved  of  wood  and  are  exact  replicas  of  the  quaint  little  cottages  from 
overseas.  Perhaps  they  will  give  you  ideas  of  something  similar  you  have  and  can  use, 
some  old  treasures  that  have  been  tucked  away  for  years.  Get  them  out  and  use  them 
this  Christmas. 
Each  article  on  this  table  could  be  made  by  members  of  the  family,  the  carved 
wooden  figures,  the  candleholders,  the  little  cornucopia  Christmas  trees.  Anyone  with  a 
sewing  machine  could  make  the  festive  tablecloth  of  either  red  or  green.  You  might 
even  use  tinkling  brass  bells  sewed  here  and  there  in  place  of  these  embroidered  trees  if 
you  should  choose.  Pin  the  bells  on  with  small  gold  safety  pins,  then  there  is  no  trouble 
when  laundering  is  needed. 
Florence  hopes  that  this  table  she  has  done  for  Christmas  may  inspire  you  to  cre- 
ate unique  and  festive  ideas  of  your  own.  Remember  to  look  in  your  cupboards  for  old 
figurines.  Perhaps  from  some  far-off  land  a  missionary  has  sent  home  mementos  to 
make  your  Christmas  table  different  and  exciting. 
These  ideas  are  sent  to  you  by  Florence  because  she  knows  what  real  joy  comes 
when  you  do  something  that  will  make  children's  laughter  ring  through  the  house,  some- 
thing that  will  make  grownups  smile  and  sing,  something  that  will  make  a  song  spon- 
taneously come  to  your  own  heart,  when,  through  your  labor  and  love,  you  have  cre- 
ated an  atmosphere  for  the  spirit  of  Christmas  to  abide  in  your  home  at  this  season. 
Christmas  Goes  Formal 
HERE  is  another  and  quite  different  type  of  Christmas  table  created  by  Florence.  It 
carries  the  Yuletide  motif,  and  in  its  simplicity  and  lovely  soft  colors,  gives  evi- 
dence again  of  her  unusual  versatility  as  an  artist.  The  elegance  of  it  will  be  enhanced 
because  on  this  table  will  be  laid  only  the  family  heirloom  china,  beautiful  old  silver,  and 
rare  crystal.  It  is  an  exquisite  formal  table  laid  for  an  ideal  number  of  guests — six  or 
eight — who  will  probably  wear  their  best  holiday  attire  to  grace  it.  Good  conversation, 
gay  Christmas  happiness  will  enhance  the  occasion,  and  the  soft  candle  glow  will  give 
a  radiance  to  the  event.

AGAIN  IT'S  CHRISTMAS! 
831 
Hal  Runiel 
FORMAL  TABLE  ARRANGEMENT  BY  FLORENCE  WILLIAMS 
The  tablecloth  is  an  imported  Italian  one  of  finest  sheer  pink  linen  with  appliques 
in  white  embroidered  designs.  Because  the  cloth,  china,  silver,  and  crystal  will  be  the 
real  enhancement  of  the  table,  Florence  has  used  perfect  taste  in  her  choice  of  simple, 
yet  beautiful  table  decorations. 
Three  tall,  stately  pink  candles  are  placed  down  the  center  of  the  table.  They  be- 
speak the  Christmas  elegance  in  a  soft,  subtle  way.  Each  candle  stands  in  a  ball  made 
of  plastic  foam  which  was  purchased  at  the  florist's  or  a  variety  store. 
These  Christmas  balls  were  dyed  with  a  deep  pinkish  dye  paint,  then  brushed  with 
liquid  glue.  While  the  glue  was  still  moist,  gold  glass  dust  was  sprinkled  over  them. 
The  paint,  glue,  and  gold  dust  can  be  purchased  at  most  any  paint  store. 
Next,  pink  and  gold  sequins  were  added.  These  were  fastened  into  the  Christmas 
balls  with  a  long  headed  pearl  pin.  The  effect  is  a  glorified  Christmas  ornament  in  soft 
pastel  shades,  which  is  beautiful  because  of  its  simplicity. 
At  the  base  of  each  candle  is  tied  a  soft  bow  of  pink  maline  about  two  inches 
wide  on  which  has  been  sprinkled  gold  dust  and  sequins. 
This  Christmas  do  more  entertaining  in  your  home,  for  there  is  no  place  like  it. 
It's  where  we  make  and  share  wonderful  memories  and  experiences  with  those  we  love 
best.  Each  occasion  calls  for  a  different  type  of  table  setting  and  decoration.  Whether 
it  is  a  table  set  to  delight  the  hearts  of  children,  or  whether  it  is  a  table  of  soft  richness 
and  luxury,  where  older  members  of  the  family  can  bask  in  its  loveliness  and  feel  the 
warmth  of  Christmas  cheer,  let  your  entertaining  express  the  warmth  and  sincerity  of 
your  Christmas  hospitality.