[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature: Victorian Humorists Briant S. Jacobs]
JLiterature — Literature  of  England 
Lesson   46— Victorian   Humorists 
Elder  Briant  S.  Jacobs 
r 
For  Tuesday,  March  15,  1955 
Objective:     To   appreciate   humor   better   and    to    understand    the    necessity   and 
value  of  humor  in  our  own  lives. 
TF  during  the  recent  war,  with  its 
rationing,  mass  relocation  of  chil- 
dren, saturation  air  raids,  block- 
busters, and  magnesium  fire  bombs, 
the  British  had  not  been  able  to 
make  puns  about  Hitler,  and  jokes 
about  their  own  sufferings,  they 
might  well  have  had  their  spirits 
broken  from  within.  As  it  was, 
their  moral  stubbornness  and  their 
humor  gave  them  a  ''bounce"  which 
was  their  strongest  secret  weapon. 
Traditionally  the  true  Briton  has 
possessed  a  ready  wit,  and  the  ability 
to  toss  off  a  joke  lightly.  Despite 
their  heavy  seriousness,  Victorian 
Englishmen  in  this  were  no  differ- 
ent from  the  English  either  before 
or  since. 
To  know  literature  is  to  know  life

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
849 
in  its  fullness.  Surely  in  our  past 
treatment  of  English  literature  we 
have  committed  serious  error,  if  we 
have  defined  great  literature  only  as 
lofty,  serious  writing.  True,  just  as 
life  is  deep,  broad,  and  profound, 
mysterious  even,  so  must  these 
qualities  be  central  to  any  true  lit- 
erature which  hopes  to  mirror  life. 
But  equally  true,  life  is  also  humor- 
ous, satirical,  playful. 
One  man  is  as  incapable  of  high 
humor  as  another  is  of  high  serious- 
ness. For  every  Milton  we  have  a 
Chaucer;  for  everv  Carhle  and  Rus- 
kin  and  Arnold,  with  their  intensitv 
and  complete  absence  of  humor,  we 
have  Thackeray  and  Lewis  Carroll 
and  Sir  William  S.  Gilbert,  prank- 
sters and  punners  supreme. 
Now,  as  from  the  beginning.  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  are  a  joyous  people. 
In  no  small  measure,  our  pioneers 
were  buoyed  up  and  heartened  by 
their  sense  of  humor.  How  often 
quoted  are  words  of  our  leaders 
which  sparkle  with  wit.  Such  hu- 
mor, like  literature,  is  uni\ersal. 
Also  universal  are  Alice  in  Wonder- 
land, 'The  Owl  and  the  Pussy-Cat," 
and  The  Mikado.  It  is  to  these, 
then,  that  we  now  turn  to  join  in 
the  delightful  "un-Victorian"  fun 
which  has  ne\'er  been  confined  to 
any  particular  place  or  time. 
It  is  hardly  possible  that  Charles 
Dickens,  Poet  Laureate  of  Humor 
and  Good  Cheer,  could  have  achiev- 
ed his  popularitv  in  an  age  earlier 
than  his  own.  His  art  needed  the 
cheap  steam  press  to  get  the  last 
written  chapter  into  the  hands  of 
waiting  thousands.  Such  a  press  also 
reproduced  wood  and,  later,  steel 
engravings  at  low  cost.  Dickens' 
writings  attained   twice   the  power 
after  they  were  also  caricatured  by 
Cruikshank's  illustrations. 
Punch 
In  this  age  of  humor  and  carica- 
ture, one  of  the  greatest  and  most 
enduring  of  British  institutions  had 
its  beginnings.  Punch,  the  British 
magazine  of  humor  and  satire  which 
still  appears  every  week  with  the 
same  old  cover,  was  first  published 
July  17,  1841.  The  success  of  Punch 
was  assured  by  "Mrs.  Caudle's  Cur- 
tain Lectures,"  the  printed  mono- 
logues she  deli\'ered  in  bed  to  her 
husband  each  night  before  going  to 
sleep.  This  feature  appeared  for 
more  than  thirty  years,  and  was  so 
beloved  by  the  English  middle-class 
that  there  are  those  who  assert,  even 
today,  that  certain  nostalgic  English 
people  continue  to  subscribe  to 
Punch  in  the  hope  that  before  their 
subscription  expires,  Mrs.  Caudle's 
lectures  will  re-appear. 
Humorous  \^ictorian  verse  was 
the  mainstay  of  Punch.  It  falls  into 
two  classes:  nonsense  \'erse,  which, 
other  than  itself,  has  no  excuse  for 
being  (nor  needs  one),  and  light 
satire.  We  shall  discuss  the  first 
type  first,  beginning  with  Edward 
Lear. 
Edward  Lear   (1812-1888;  see  text 
pp.  824,  826-827). 
A  lifelong  student  of  animals  and 
nature,  Edward  Lear  studied  art  and 
through  his  active  years  traveled 
widely  in  Europe  and  Africa  paint- 
ing animals  and  landscapes.  For 
more  than  a  decade  he  was  an  art 
teacher  in  Rome,  and  he  illustrated 
Tennyson's  poems.  When,  in  1845, 
he  broke  his  voluntarv  exile  and  re- 
turned  to  England,  he  gave  Queen 
Victoria  drawing  lessons.    In  addi-