[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science—The Constitution of the United States]
 | Author: Elder Albert R. Bowen]Social Science—The Constitution of the United States

Lesson 12—The Bill of Rights—Amendments Five Through Ten

Elder Albert R. Bowen

Texts: Your Rugged Constitution (Y. R. C.), pp. 204-217; The Constitution of the United States Its Sources and Its Application (C. of U. S.), pp. 210-227

For Tuesday, March 22, 1955

Objective: To give further consideration to the Bill of Rights as a guarantee and protection to the rights and liberties of individual citizens.

Rights of Persons Accused of Crimes
Fifth Amendment

No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of War or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without the due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.

The Fifth Amendment is one of the truly great bulwarks of individual freedom and human rights found in the Constitution. Its provisions have been invoked in literally thousands of cases. Tersely stated, this Amendment may be said to guarantee that a person shall not be subjected to criminal prosecution or deprived of property without a full, open, and public trial with full opportunity of defense, nor shall his property be seized or taken for any public purpose without full and adequate reimbursement.

It goes without saying that criminals must be punished for crimes committed in order that society may protect itself against the effects of lawlessness. On the other hand, innocent persons must be protected from wrongful or illegal prosecution. The Fifth Amendment is one of the Amendments designed to regulate the steps in a criminal proceeding so that, while the interests of society are being protected and safeguarded, the interests and rights and liberties of individuals may be likewise safeguarded and protected.

A capital offense, of course, is one for which a guilty person may be executed. An infamous crime is one for which he may be imprisoned.

Before a person can be held to answer for such an offense he must be indicted by a grand jury, before whom all evidence against him must be laid. If the grand jury determines that the evidence presented to it warrants prosecution, it votes in favor of an indictment (formal accusation). Then, and only then, is the person charged subject to being tried. It might be said that the system of indictment under the Fifth Amendment prohibits a person from being subjected to Federal criminal proceedings on mere suspicion, no matter how well-founded such suspicion may be.

Each state has similar laws and constitutional provisions designed to accomplish the same end. In most states the grand jury system of indictment has been abandoned in favor of more expeditious processing of criminal proceedings, but the essential requirements of grand jury indictments have nevertheless been preserved.

The indictment itself must set forth the nature of the offense charged and the circumstances of its occurrence. In this way the accused may know of the crime for which he must answer and thus may prepare his defense.

The phrase, "to be twice put in jeopardy," means to stand trial for the same offense more than once. This means that if a person is tried for a criminal offense and found not guilty, or acquitted, as the term is known, he may not be tried again but must be allowed to go free, even though he may, in fact, have been guilty.

In England before the Revolution, it sometimes happened that when the Crown was unsuccessful in convicting a person of a crime charged, the judges would compel a man to be tried over again, sometimes more than once, to insure a conviction. This provision of the Fifth Amendment has no application in cases where a jury cannot agree on guilt or innocence. In such cases a new trial is lawful and the accused cannot plead "double jeopardy."

A final word on this vital provision of the Fifth Amendment is, that in jury trials before Federal courts, the verdict in a criminal case is required to be unanimous.

In no criminal proceeding may an accused be compelled to testify against himself. He may sit mute if he wishes and his silence may not be considered as any evidence of his guilt. If he voluntarily takes the witness chair and testifies on his own behalf, then he is subject to all the rules of cross-examination by the prosecution. An extension of this same protection of human liberty is that a man's wife, or a woman's husband, cannot be required to testify against his or her spouse.

One aspect of the Fifth Amendment includes civil cases as well as criminal proceedings. That is, even in civil cases, a person may not be compelled to testify as to any matter being examined at the trial, if such testimony would tend to incriminate him—make him subject to criminal prosecution. An interesting sidelight on this provision of the Fifth Amendment is that the Communists always invoke the "self-incriminating" rule in their refusal to answer questions in court touching upon their party activities.

Invariably they are successful in refusing to give evidence on their activities which might make them liable to be tried for a criminal offense, such as treason. They cannot refuse to testify, however, if their testimony would not lay them open to criminal proceedings, or they cannot refuse to testify if enough time has elapsed so that the statute of limitations would prevent their prosecution. (The law provides that for most crimes the offenders must be prosecuted within a fixed period of time. After that time has elapsed, any prosecution is barred.) Also they must testify if they have already been tried and convicted of the offense at an earlier time, or have already been pardoned of the offense.

"Due process of law" means protection from arbitrary and illegal acts by Government or Governmental agents. It could be said to be a requirement that all Governmental proceedings are subject to the requirement of fair play. This requirement applies with special force and emphasis in all judicial or court proceedings.

The provision against Governmental seizure of private property prohibits the Government from taking the property of an individual, no matter how important or necessary the purpose of the taking may be, without paying him just compensation for the taking. It is true that one of the attributes of sovereignty requires that private rights must yield to public need. On the other hand, no individual is required to sacrifice his property for a public use or need, unless the public pays for it.

The right of "eminent domain" (which means the appropriation of private property for public use) is subject to this very essential and vital limitation. What a person shall be paid for the taking of his property must be decided by a jury on the demand of the person whose property is being appropriated. Thus Governmental agents may not be arbitrary in fixing fair value and the amount payable for such taking.

In England this right of seizure had been invoked by the sovereign, often in a very arbitrary and unfair manner, and, all too often, the aggrieved individual received little or no compensation or payment for this property.

Trial for Crimes—Sixth Amendment (Y. R. C., pp. 206-207; C. of U. S., pp. 216-221)

In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right of a speedy and pub-