Notes_from_Field | Title: Notes From the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field
Amy Brown Lyman
California Mission. The accompanying photo gives an idea of a very successful bazaar given by the Sacramento Relief Society from which was netted the sum of $240. The Senior girls and the Bee-Hive girls of the Y. L. M. I. A. Assisted with booths of candy, popcorn, and fancy novelties. The Y. M. M. I. A. Had a balloon booth. A very delightful program was rendered, followed by dancing.
The Sacramento Relief Society, California Mission
Not only was the bazaar a success financially, but also socially, every one claiming to have had the most enjoyable evening of the season. By giving suppers in addition to this bazaar, the association has been enabled to turn in over $700, for the new chapel. The Sacramento Relief Society has a very energetic and enterprising group of officers with Mrs. Almeda Green as president, Grace Garlick and Edna McBride, counselors, Mrs. Alice Y. Jarvis, secretary, and Lulu Weckworth, chorister. The teachers and members are most loyal and are ever ready to cooperate in any undertaking launched by the organization.
Logan Stake. The Logan stake Relief Society board recently entertained in honor of the local officers, bishops of wards, and their partners. The party was held at the Brigham Young College, and given in

appreciation of the excellent work done by the officers during the past season. The first part of the evening was spent in the Nibley Hall where a very fine musical program was rendered and the two-act play, "Out of Work," was very ably presented under the direction of Miss Leora Thatcher. This little drama most beautifully portrayed the ideal we are putting into effect through the social service work of our Relief Society, and we feel that the message we desired to convey to our officers and bishops was very clearly defined through it. The latter part of the evening's entertainment was spent in social pastime, and refreshments were served.
Juarez Stake. At the last Relief Society conference, all of the wards in the stake, reported that they had made some effort towards establishing maternity bundles, layettes, and burial clothes. Most of the wards have chests for their maternity bundles and emergency supplies, but none so far have built especially for the purpose. Each ward has held a very successful Relief Society conference on Sunday afternoon.
South Davis Stake. One of the most enjoyable events of the South Davis stake Relief Society this season was the celebration of the eighty-third anniversary of the organization. About five hundred Relief Society officers and teachers met at East Bountiful and participated in a fine program followed by a jolly play hour in which the oldest lady present (ninety years) took an active part. Delicious refreshments were served. The day was so thoroughly enjoyed that the six hours passed as one. The Relief Society work is appreciated, as is shown in the attendance at the monthly union meetings as well as the marked improvement in the presentation of lessons. The standard of music has been raised as the result of a series of lessons given by Mrs. Stella Bradford. Some of the wards are receiving help from the clinics while others are making preparation to establish clinics in their respective localities. The maternity bundles and the layettes are proving very useful. By the purchase of a small $30 hectograph, outlines and articles relating to and supplementing the teacher's topics are placed in every home by the teachers. Each season the officers and members of the stake meet at Farmington and participate in testimony and song service which proves to be a spiritual uplift. This is followed by a visit to the Lagoon resort where a social afternoon is spent including a luncheon and clever entertainment by the Farmington ward.
Tintic Stake. The Tintic district held two very successful child welfare conferences in June, in Eureka and Goshen, with the Tintic stake
Relief Society, the Red Cross and other organizations affiliating. It is the plan to follow up with conferences in August. First of all, the children were weighed and their teeth examined, then turned over to a nurse and physician where a thorough examination was made along the most approved lines. It was rather surprising to learn that many were found to be badly in need of medical attention. The physicians in charge of the conference consulted with the parents and advised them regarding the proper methods of treatment to correct the defects, some of which are by no means serious, but in a few instances the children are in need of close attention. In Eureka 112 children were examined, and but 25 of that number were free from defects. In Goshen 95 children under school age were examined.
Nebo Stake. An outstanding social event in Nebo stake was the "get acquainted" party given recently in the second ward amusement hall by the members of the Nebo stake Relief Society board. The hall was transformed into a bower of spring loveliness with trailing vines and delicate shaded blossoms. Two hundred guests were seated at three long tables decorated with potted plants and cut flowers. The banquet was served at seven o'clock. President Hepsy S. Lewis delivered the address of welcome and introduced Mrs. Ada S. Clayton as toastmistress. The stake presidency and high council were toasted in an original song by the stake board members, after which President Lee R. Taylor responded. Mrs. Annie L. Curtis spoke for the ward Relief Society presidents and the four ward presidents of Payson sang an original song. Bishop Alfred R. Wilson spoke for the ward bishops. A musical program followed, after which the board members presented an extremely humorous play, "The Sniggles Family." The grotesque costumes and the efforts of the players at entertaining produced much merriment. Dancing was enjoyed for the remainder of the evening. The invitations were in the form of a clever poem and were sent to the presidents, counselors and secretaries in each Relief Society in the stake, also to the bishops and their counselors, stake presidency and high council. The majority of these, together with their partners, participated in the splendid entertainment.
REORGANIZATIONS
Yellowstone Stake. (Twice reorganized within the year.) On January 11, 1925, the Yellowstone stake was reorganized and Mrs. Julia E. Miller was honorably released as Relief Society stake president, after serving sixteen years. Mrs. Miller was sustained as a stake board member, in 1907, in the Fremont stake, and in 1909, when the Yellowstone stake Relief Society was first

organized, she was called to act as president. At that time there was no uniform course of study in the Relief Society, and Mrs. Miller assisted in formulating the outline used for study in the various wards of her stake. During her presidency, the stake Relief Society paid one thousand dollars toward building the Yellowstone stake tabernacle in which one room was reserved and furnished especially for the Relief Society. Carpets were put in the gallery and on the steps, and matting was put in the aisles. In order to raise the money, dinners and stake bazaars were given. A few years later twelve hundred dollars was raised and was used in furnishing six rooms at the L. D. S. Hospital at Idaho Falls. The Relief Society has also assisted in securing county nurses and arranging for clinics which have been held throughout the communities. All the people of the stake joined in honoring the retiring presidency of the stake and Relief Society presidency on January 24, Mrs. Miller was presented with a wrist watch and her two counselors, Mrs. Lucy P. Lloyd and. Mrs. Elizabeth N. Hammond, each received brooches. A social was also held February 21 at the home of Mrs. Rost H. Fogg in honor of Mrs. Miller and all the women who had served on the Relief Society stake board during the sixteen years since the organization. A short program was given and a two-course luncheon was served. Mrs. Miller has been a most efficient and devoted president. She has manifested rare intelligence in the performance of her duties and has succeeded in placing the work of the Yellowstone stake on a high plane. She has won the love and respect of the General Board members, and the Relief Society workers generally, and there is a deep appreciation throughout the organization for the long and efficient service she has rendered to the Relief Society. Mrs. Annie S. Kerr was appointed president to succeed Mrs. Miller, and she and her co-workers began their work in good earnest; but due to change of residence which occurred unexpectedly early in the summer, Mrs. Kerr asked to be released and her request was granted at the conference held in Yellowstone stake July 19. At this same time Mrs. Lucy P. Lloyd was named as president to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mrs. Kerr.
Salt Lake Stake At the quarterly conference of the Salt Lake stake, held in the Assembly Hall, March 15, 1925, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford was honorably released as president of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, after eight years of efficient and faithful service. Her release was due to change of residence. Mrs. Bradford was one of the most capable and progressive stake presidents in the whole
organization, and will be greatly missed by her former co-workers. The co-operative welfare work between bishops and ward presidents in the Salt Lake stake, instituted by President Nephi L. Morris and Mrs. Bradford, is an example of organized effort, helpfulness and efficient service that might be adopted with profit by all stakes in the Church. Mrs. Bradford was recently appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Mrs. Vilate N. Bennion, former counselor in the Salt Lake stake, was appointed to fill the vacancy caused by Mrs. Bradford's resignation. Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams and Mrs. Rosa Belle H. Ashton were chosen counselors to Mrs. Bennion, and Mrs. Nellie P. Morton was selected as stake secretary-treasurer. In honor of the retiring president and board, a luncheon was given on June 1, 1925, at the home of Mrs. Vilate N. Bennion, when a beautiful traveling bag was presented to Mrs. Bradford.
Malad Stake The Malad stake Relief Society was reorganized March 28, 1925. Mrs. Eliza Hall who has served so effectively and efficiently as stake president for fourteen years, and previous to that for twenty years as a stake board member, resigned her position and was honorably released. Mrs. Hall has been a tireless and enthusiastic worker and has overcome many obstacles, incident to building up the Relief Society organization. Her sweet spirit and untiring devotion to the work has endeared her to all the members of the stake. Besides her Relief Society work, Mrs. Hall has reared a large family, almost alone, as her husband died in the, mission field, leaving a family of nine children. She has also reared two motherless grandchildren and labored unceasingly among the sick and needy. On May 11, a reception was held in honor of Mrs. Hall and the retiring Relief Society stake officers. Those present were the stake presidency and the old and new boards, with their partners. A very interesting program was rendered and expressions of appreciation were given for the splendid service rendered by those retiring from office. Refreshments were served and President Hall was presented with a beautiful white dress and other gifts. The other retiring members were also remembered with appropriate gifts. On May 30, an excursion to the Logan temple was held in honor of President Hall. About one hundred people participated and gave their service in the interest of Mrs. Hall's family. The new stake board members appointed are as follows: Mrs. Ella J. Richards, president; Mrs. Nellie Dredge and Mrs. Martha Hill, counselors; Mrs. Margaret M. Parry, secretary-treasurer; Mrs. Esther Mifflin, chorister; Mrs. Thelma Hoarse, organist; Hattie P. Howard, Mary Crowther, Hilda Richards, Mary Gibbs, Phoebe Smith, and Sarah Reynolds, board members.