[Vol12 | September 1925 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Molly Crossman Breaks a Tradition of Byfield Elsie C. Carrol]

MOLLY CROSSMAN BREAKS A TRADITION
"Molly Crossman, what on earth are you doing?" Betsy demanded, as she entered the door Molly had thrown open for her. "Don't you know the whole town is talking about you and wondering if you and Richard are separating, or if Hal has got to gambling, and has lost a lot of money, or what is the matter?" Molly gasped. Then she burst into angry tears. "Betsy, this town is crazy. Can't a woman do a little bit of honest work besides dishwashing and sweeping and scrubbing and tending babies without being looked upon as a freak?" "Why, of course, she can. Mary Hart bakes for travelers and Susie Crampton tends the Post Office and Daisy Darton goes out sewing. But they're all widows and have to do it for a living. But the idea of you sitting up in business when Richard is one of the best to-do men in the town! They can't understand it!" "Well, it's time they broke loose from some of their old fogy traditions, then." Molly said determinedly. "I think it's too bad if a woman has time on her hands she can't do something useful that she likes to do, just because her neighbors haven't happened to think of it." At this point Dick's wife, Lucy, came in at the back door. Betsy reading in her face that she had "just heard," slipped out the front door to avoid being an intruder. "Why, Mother Crossman, what's this the neighbors are saying? Belle Peters says you've got a lot of hats in your parlor window and a millinery sign." Molly felt the calm of desperation coming to her. She had always felt a little in awe of Lucy who was so up-to-date and modern. But some how now she was sure she herself had grasped one modern idea Lucy had not yet glimpsed. "Why. Yes, Lucy. I have a fine lot of new hats?just got them yesterday. I was going to have you come over and pick one out. It's such a bother to have to go to Dale every spring and fall. I want to give you one for your birthday." She was interrupted by the quick click of the gate, and the well known sound of Richard's hurried strides, on the graveled walk. At Molly's first sight of his flushed, exasperated countenance, as he bounded up the steps waving a fresh copy of the Byfield Post, her senses of humor came to relieve the tension of her overwrought nerves. "Mother," he fairly bellowed. "What in thunder do you suppose you're doing with this crazy hat notion of yours? It's all over town that I've failed. My office is full of men who think I owe them something or who have an idea it's their duty to help me over the crash. What in thunder?!"
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Molly had sunk into a chair convulsed with laughter! Her husband and daughter-in-law looked at her in amazement, then with perplexity, and increasing alarm, at one another. Lucy was the first to speak. "Shall?shall I go for Dr. Trent?" Molly laughed harder than ever. The consternation in the faces before her growing more and more ludicrous to her. "Molly, for heaven's sake, what is the matter?" Richard's voice was full of fear. "I've never known her to have hysterics before. She?she hasn't seemed just right since Lillian and the boys left, but I didn't realize?hurry Lucy, get the doctor, quick, and send Dick over?I'll try to get her to bed?Molly, darling? Can't you control??" With a mighty effort Molly did control herself just in time to keep Lucy from running for the doctor. She stood up and called Lucy back. "Don't go for the doctor, Lucy. I'm not crazy like you think: It just struck me as about the funniest thing that ever happened, this fuss you are all making over my poor little window of hats. Both of you sit down and let me show you what is responsible for my supposed aberration." Molly returned with a magazine. "Read that," she handed the paper to Lucy who looked up from the title with a quick look of appreciative understanding. "A Creed of Work for Women." Why, Grandma, this article must have the power of contagion. When I read it, it made me hungry to keep on with my music lessons. The only objection I have to it is that Miss Gill has not seen quite far enough. She should have said that during the years of babytending the woman should plan to give some thought and time to her former profession?exchanging work with her neighbors or doing something to make it possible. If I could go out an afternoon or two a week and give music lessons like I used to, I really believe it would help me to be a better wife to Dick and a better mother to the babies?a woman does need a change of thought and some outside interest to keep her fit for the big job of homemaking. Here Grandpa, read that?and understand?while I go in and look at the hats." Molly intuitively recognized a new something in her daughter-in-law's attitude. She somehow suddenly became aware that she wasn't going to feel ill-at-ease around Lucy and the children any more?they were going to be comrades. "Why, Lucy it would be nice for you to keep on with your music. You could bring the children over here. You know I'd love to have them." "That will be fine, Grandma. You see I could hire a girl to
MOLLY CROSSMAN BREAKS A TRADITION
tend them, so it wouldn't tire you, but if they could just be here so I'd know they were safe?really in better hands than my own," Lucy's voice was enthusiastic. Richard Crossman watched the two women as they disappeared into the parlor? his face still puzzled?then he turned to the article Lucy had given him. When he had finished reading he pondered for several minutes, a look of amusement gradually coming into his eyes. Finally he went to the parlor door. "Well, you women folks beat anything,' he bantered. "Never satisfied. I expect you'll soon want to be trading work with the men?or taking it all over." He started toward the street door, but turned back. "Say, Mother, what am I to tell those fellows hanging around my office?" he asked with a grin. "And what are you going to tell the whole neighborhood of women you've set a-buzzing?" For a moment Molly hesitated. A shadow of the morning's exasperation passed over her face. But presently she squared her shoulders and threw back her head. "What will we tell them? We'll tell them that Molly Crossman has broken through a foolish tradition of Byfield and she is going to invite the rest of the women to follow her."