William Howard Taft, in the interest of World Peace. He makes his home at Avalon, Princeton. No doubt his interest in his fellow man as a teacher of religion is responsible for such books as "The Story of the Psalms," "Sermons to Young Men," "The Gospel for a World of Sin;" while his position as Professor of Literature led him to write "The Poetry of Tennyson," "Modern American Writers," etc. His poetry has attracted a good many readers, and to that phase of his literary work we shall more particularly devote this lesson. Indian summer may have passed when Van Dyke's poem, bearing that title, is considered, yet lingering memories of it will assist class members to appreciate the touches of the haze of the season, and other characteristics of Indian summer, that appear in the poem.
INDIAN SUMMER
A silken curtain veils the skies, And half conceals from pensive eyes The bronzing tokens of the fall;
A calmness broods upon the hills, And summer's parting dream distils A charm of silence over all.
The stacks of corn, in brown array, Stand waiting through the tranquil day, Like tattered wigwams on the plain; The tribes that find a shelter there Are phantom peoples, forms of air, And ghosts of vanished joy and pain.
At evening when the crimson crest Of sunset passes down the West, I hear the whispering host returning; On far-off fields, by elm and oak, I see the lights, I smell the smoke,? The camp-fires of the Past are burning.
Nothing is more natural than that Henry Van Dyke, who is a member of the ministry, should write poems, occasionally, that have a touch of one who has devoted his life to teaching the gospel, as he understands it. In an organization including as many mothers, as we have in the Relief Society, we feel it would be a mistake not to include the poem called "A Mother's Birthday."
A MOTHER'S BIRTHDAY
Lord Jesus, Thou hast known A mother's love and tender care: And Thou wilt hear, While for my own Mother most dear I make this birthday Prayer:
Protect her life, I pray, Who gave the gift of life to me; And may she know, From day to day. The deepening glow Of joy that comes from Thee.
As once upon her breast Fearless and well content I lay, So let her heart On Thee at rest, Feel fear depart And trouble fade away.

Ah, hold her by the hand, As once her hand held mine; And though she may Not understand Life's winding way, Lead her in peace divine.
I cannot pay my debt For all the love that she has given; But Thou, love's Lord, Wilt not forget Her due reward,? Bless her in earth and heaven.
Ah! Hold her by the hand, As once her hand held mine; And though she may Not understand Life's winding way, Lead her in peace divine.
Henry Van Dyke spent much of his time in Europe, consequently his poems are full of touches that call to mind well known places in Europe. In 1908 the lonely island of Sicily was shaken by an earthquake, that wrought a great deal of destruction. Sicily is one of the spots that calls the traveler back again and again, because nature has been so lavish with lovely trees and beautiful bright-colored flowers, and a blue sea and a blue sky. Mr. Van Dyke feels the beauty of this favored spot of earth, which he recounts in a poetic way, in his poem called "Sicily," written at the time of the earthquake:
SICILY
O garden isle, beloved by Sun and Sea, Whose bluest billows kiss thy curving bays, Whose light infolds thy hills with golden rays, Filling with fruit each dark-leaved orange-tree, What hidden hatred hath the Earth for thee, That once again, in these dark, dreadful days, Breaks forth in trembling rage, and swiftly lays Thy beauty waste in wreck and agony!
Is Nature, then, a strife of jealous powers, And man the plaything of unconscious fate? Not so, my troubled heart! God reigns above, And man is greatest in his darkest hours. Walking amid the cities desolate, Behold the Son of God in human love!
Much as he loves Europe, like all patriotic citizens he loves his own land best. We include in the lesson two of his poems that express his appreciation for the land of his birth, and the land of which he is an honored citizen. The first is "America," the second "America For Me." This last poem is a very great favorite, and is often made a part of patriotic programs, so we have selected it as the last to be considered in the lesson on Henry Van Dyke:
AMERICA
I love thine inland seas, Thy groves of giant trees, Thy rolling plains, Thy river's mighty sweep, Thy mystic canyons deep, Thy mountains wild and steep All thy domains;
Thy silver Eastern strands, Thy golden Gate that stands Wide to the West; Thy flowery Southland fair, Thy sweet and crystal air,? O land beyond compare, Thee I love best!
March 1906.
AMERICA FOR ME
'Tis fine to see the Old World, and travel up and down Among the famous palaces and cities of renown, To admire the crumbly castles and the statues of the kings, But now I think I've had enough of antiquated things.
So it's home again, and home again, America for me! My heart is turning home again, and there I long to be, In the land of youth and freedom beyond the ocean bars, Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars.
Oh, London is a man's town, there's power in the air; And Paris is a woman's town with flowers in her hair; And it's sweet to dream in Venice, and it's great to study Rome, But when it comes to living there is no place like home.
I like the German fir-woods, in green battalions drilled; I like the gardens of Versailles with flashing fountains filled; But, oh, to take your hand, my dear, and ramble for a day In the friendly western woodland where Nature has her way!

I know that Europe's wonderful, yet something seems to lack: The Past is too much with her, and the people looking back. But the glory of the present is to make the future free,? We love our land for what she is and what she is to be.
Oh, it's home again, and home again, America for me! I want a ship that's westward bound to plough the rolling sea, To the blessed land of Room Enough beyond the ocean bars, Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars.
June, 1909.
Questions and Problems
1. Select the words and phrases in the poem "Indian Summer" that are descriptive of the season.
2. Select some phrases from his poem "A Mother's Birthday," that indicate that he is truly a devout man and that he has faith in Jesus Christ.
3. Has Henry Van Dyke helped you to feel the beauty of Sicily, if so, what means has he taken to do so? State the location of Sicily. If convenient show the class members where it is on the map.
4. Has he stimulated your patriotism? If so, tell how?
5. If there are members of the class who saw Mr. Van Dyke on his visit to the West, let them tell the class something about his appearance and his address.
LESSON IV (Fourth Week in November)
Social Service
FAMILY RESPONSIBILITY
The discussion of various types of special problems, which have been analyzed in the previous lessons, all have a definite relation to family welfare, and the development of normal family life. No matter what particular outstanding problem presents itself in a family, it can never be treated successfully, if it is not related to the whole family structure. The sick mother, the man out of work, the delinquent girl or the runaway boy who come to the attention of social agencies are not isolated phenomena, but are the obvious manifestations of some family failure or maladjustment. As social work becomes more specialized, there is a tendency for agencies dealing with special types of problems to observe and study only the particular outstanding manifestation. The physician and nurse are more aware of the diagnosed tuberculosis or heart disease, than of the home or work environment which produced the disease. The probation officer is
often more concerned with equitable property settlement of the boy who breaks windows or steals a bicycle than with the social forces that motivated the act. The child-placing agency may emphasize the advantages to the child of finding a new home for it, without weighing the effect on the parents of removing the child from its home. The teacher may attempt to find the causes of dullness or unruliness in the activities of the schoolroom, when the real source of the difficulty may be in a sordid or unsympathetic home. The home is the most important single factor in determining the health, the behavior, and the progress of individuals. The family is the unit of society, through which the individual makes his first interpretation of life and makes his first adaptation to the art of living. While it is true that his degree of health and his measure of intelligence are largely determined at birth, the development of his powers is determined by his later experiences. The home, more than any other factor, will promote or curtail his health, habits, attitudes and conduct. The family is the medium through which the child gains his social heritage. The early environment will often determine whether success, happiness and mental physical health or the opposite, failure, morbidness, mental and physical impairment are to be the fate of the individual. It must be remembered that the first five or six years of a child's life are the most important in development of physical vigor, in forming habits, and in acquiring social attitudes. It is obvious that a child reared in a refined, orderly home, in a pleasant neighborhood, has a set of experiences completely different from the child born in squalid, poorly managed home, in a rough and ugly neighborhood. While the unfortunate child's responses and reactions cannot be exactly predicted, yet it is apparent that his unhappy environment is a factor in his life's experiences that will affect his development. To understand and treat health, behavior, or economic problems, requires a knowledge of the family fabric. To be unaware of the character of the family and to ignore its influence, will make any social treatment end in failure. The individual is such an integral part of family social unit, that any adjustment made without understanding the relation of the individual to the family is bound to be ineffective and even harmful. When the relation of the individual to the family is understood, it is then possible to measure the social factors in the situation and to place a proper emphasis on the particular problem. To be specific, one occasion for social study was

that of a sixteen-year-old girl who had run away from home. The girl felt that her responsibilities at home were too strenuous. Her mother was a widow, working away from home, living on a limited income, and the girl's part in the unattractive home life, was caring for the children. She was tired of the routine, and was ambitious to study stenography. An interested respectable friend was willing to let her work for her during the day, as housemaid, and attend evening school. A modern individualist would perhaps maintain that the girl's preferences should give her the right to plan her life as she wished. But the facts of her own limitations and her part in the family unit should not be ignored. It was learned that the girl had just finished grammar school and had been rather dull at school work. Her enthusiasm for further study was inspired more by the prospect of being an attractive, well-dressed office girl earning fair wages than by any ability or aptitude for the work. It is perfectly understandable that her uneventful life in a drab home, would inspire such an ambition, and that desperation would drive her to run away. She was willing to admit that her earnings and her help were needed at home, and she had many misgivings about her desertion of her mother and younger sisters. The solution to the girl's difficulty, viewed in relation to her family, was not in the escape she had planned. With no assurance of her own success or happiness, it would be questionable whether her desertion from the family group should be encouraged. Her desire to earn money and be relieved of home drudgery, however, should be given consideration. After a time this was accomplished, and it was then possible for the mother to spend more of her time in the home. It happened that the girl did get her wish to be employed in an office, but she was spared the expense and almost certain failure that her first plan presented. The family unit presents this interdependence of its members in various forms, emotional as well as economic. The members of a family are bound by strong common interests and affections, and perhaps the greatest satisfaction and happiness in life results from the family comradeship and sharing of one another's successes. If the emotional bond and strong family affection exists, as it does in most homes, it is quite natural for the members to share one another's burdens in time of difficulty. Family affection and family pride usually come to the rescue when one of its clan has met with some misfortune. The fact that the family is an economic unit makes dependence upon one another only natural. The parents during
their best years devote their lives to their children. As the parents, with age, lose their earning power, it is to be supposed that the children, now grown, assume the financial burdens. The first responsibility for any financial problem should be assumed by the family, and not by church, state, or social agencies. Family responsibility does not end with the mutual care of its members. The family, too, is a part of a larger unit? the community and the race. If the family fails to function satisfactorily, the good of the larger units must be considered, and the state reserves the right to interfere. With its activities?removing children or incarcerating irresponsible parents. But the strength of society and the fullest realization of individual expression is to be found in wholesome family life, where individuals hold together by a strong natural bond, and work together for their mutual good. (Ref. Normal Life, pp. 183-185.)
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. How does the family life influence an individual's development?
2. Why should an individual's problem always be related to his family?
3. Why was it advisable to discourage the girl in the incident from her first plan?
4. Why should families be responsible for the care of its helpless?
5.