[Vol12 | September 1925 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Baby Wear Vilate Elliot]
Baby Wear
Vilate Elliot, Brigham Young University
The clothing course in which baby wear is offered at the Brigham Young University is unique for the reason that the students at the beginning of the course never care to make the articles. They are usually induced to do so by the teacher finding customers who are glad to have them made. Sometimes some member of the student's family is anxious to have them made. It is much better for the student to plan and make them for some friend, or a member of her own family, because in nearly every case, after the articles are finished, they become so much a part of herself she wishes to make them for her own hope-chest. The desire to become. A mother someday is awakened, and as the little dainty articles grow under her fingers, she unconsciously weaves the dreams of her own future into the designs of the tiny article. Long before they are finished they become the most intimate bits of creation. By the time the course is over you will hear some such remark as, "I have promised this to my sister, but I have told her, since it is nearly finished, that her baby may wear it, but I want to keep it." This comment is always a delight to hear, because I know that deep down in her own heart that maternal instinct of motherhood is strongly implanted. She has made one wee bit of a dress and possibly a gertrude, now she wants to go on and make the whole layette. In this way one of the aims of the course is attained. She will always be interested in making a layette. She will always want soft, dainty materials, with simple bits of handwork adorning them. A picture of a few of the baby dresses made in class are shown here. Preceding this class, a course is given in textile decoration where the girls become familiar with different kinds of artistic stitchery; however, the stitches are simple, and can be done easily. These dresses are from twenty to twenty-two inches long, finished. No. 1 has a hem partially cut out, this hem is finished with an embroidered scallop, a dainty little design is worked in the open spaces: this design is also worked at the neck. The hem design is carried out on the sleeve, giving a cuff effect. The little fine scallop around the neck is continued down to the bottom of the placket. A small piece of selvedge edge is placed under the placket with the selvedge on the opposite side of the scallop and embroidered in with it, this acts as a stay for the button holes. No. 2 has a heavily padded scallop with a small space of cutwork placed in between each cluster of scallops. A similar design is carried out in the front and sleeves, No. 1. No. 2. No. 3. No. 4. No. 3 is a dainty scalloped edge with a design, in the center of which is a little cut work. No. 4 is a little jacket made from a 24-inch square of cashmere, or flannel, the jacket is hemstitched around, then finished with a crochet picot edge. The design is shown below. The colors used are pink, blue, yellow, green and lavender. In the original the rambler roses on the line were placed to fit the spaces in the jacket. This same design was used on a dress, it worked up well, the roses were placed from three to four inches apart, with the raised, or broken line, in front. A very attractive design can be arranged for the neck and sleeves.
Molly Crossman Breaks a Tradition of Byfield
By Elsie C. Carroll
Molly laid down the magazine she had been reading and gazed out of the window toward the hills which skirted Byfield, on the east. The first yellows and reds of Autumn were beginning to show on the brown slopes, but Molly was unconscious of the fact. She was trying to interpret the vague something which the article she had just finished reading, had stirred within her. Presently she took up the magazine again and read once more slowly, and thoughtfully, the last part of Laura Drake Gill's "Creed of Work for Women:" "I believe that every woman should expect marriage to interrupt for some years the pursuit of any regular gainful occupation; * * * * and that she should focus her chief thought during the early youth of her children upon the science and art of wise family life. "I believe that every woman should hope to return, in the second leisure of middle life, to some of her early skilled occupations?either as an unsalaried worker in some one of its social phases, or if income be an object, as a salaried worker in a phase of it requiring maturity and social experience. "I believe that this general policy of economic service for American women would yield generous by-products of intelligence, responsibility and. Contentment." It was certain words in the last two paragraphs that had gripped Molly. There was nothing new or striking in thought that women at marriage, should give up all other interests and devote themselves to motherhood and homemaking. That was taken for granted?had been taken for granted through long years of progressing civilization. It was the words, "second leisure of middle age," and the "generous by-product of contentment," which had started this unfamiliar groping in her soul. Gradually it was dawning upon Molly Crossman that the unexplainable loneliness and restlessness and discontent which had been settling down heavier and heavier around her during the past few weeks since Lillian's wedding and departure, and the boy's leaving for college, was something more than the natural void always experienced when members of the family
