the General Board; President Emmaretta G Brown, of the Granite stake; President Electa S. Dixon, of Utah stake; Marie H. Tanner, secretary of Grant stake; Mabel W. James and Bae Williams, of Ensign stake; five members of the staff of the welfare department; and the social worker of Utah stake. Clarissa A. Beesley, of the Y. L. M. I. A., Oscar A. Kirkham of the Y. M. M. I. A. And Clara W. Beebe of the Primary Association attended the conference.
Baby Wear
Vilate Elliot, Brigham Young University
The clothing course in which baby wear is offered at the Brigham Young University is unique for the reason that the students at the beginning of the course never care to make the articles. They are usually induced to do so by the teacher finding customers who are glad to have them made. Sometimes some member of the student's family is anxious to have them made. It is much better for the student to plan and make them for some friend, or a member of her own family, because in nearly every case, after the articles are finished, they become so much a part of herself she wishes to make them for her own hope-chest. The desire to become. A mother someday is awakened, and as the little dainty articles grow under her fingers, she unconsciously weaves the dreams of her own future into the designs of the tiny article. Long before they are finished they become the most intimate bits of creation. By the time the course is over you will hear some such remark as, "I have promised this to my sister, but I have told her, since it is nearly finished, that her baby may wear it, but I want to keep it." This comment is always a delight to hear, because I know that deep down in her own heart that maternal instinct of motherhood is strongly implanted. She has made one wee bit of a dress and possibly a gertrude, now she wants to go on and make the whole layette. In this way one of the aims of the course is attained. She will always be interested in making a layette. She will always want soft, dainty m