[Vol12 | September 1925 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial—The Bible]

The Bible
Members of the present generation know more about the Bible as a literary product than other generations have known. The series of books on the Bible as literature, written by Prof. Richard Green Moulton, has done much to quicken the conscience of the English speaking people in this respect. Yet there are periods of time behind us when people had a more intimate knowledge of the Bible than we have. So thorough was their acquaintance with the book that all the writings of the day seemed to take on a beauty of form and majesty of movement characteristic of Bible literature. We can never forget the fact that the age that produced Shakespeare, the greatest of all our British writers of drama, and Milton, the greatest of our English epic poets, also gave us the inimitable King James translation of the Bible. We were not a little startled some time ago to hear one of the guest professors of the summer, in one of our colleges, state that the oaths used by the Elizabethan dramatists show a more intimate knowledge of the Bible than our serious writings of today. Whatever be the merit of the books of today, whatever be the line of information imparted, the Bible must always remain the Book of all books. It is a reservoir of information on an infinite number of subjects, and is a pattern of beauty and finish in the realm of artistic letters. As bread is to our diet, as sunshine is to plant life, so is the
EDITORIAL 463
Bible in the realm of books. It is the chiefest and best, and for it there can be no substitute.
William Jennings Bryan
No woman's journal, no religious magazine, can be silent on the death of William Jennings Bryan, least of all a journal that champions the cause both of woman and of religion. Mr. Bryan advocated Woman's Suffrage long before it became a popular cause with any political party that hoped to win by putting it into its platform. And he advocated it, not because he thought it would win him votes in a political campaign, but because it was inherently right, because it would be an act of simple justice to woman. As for the other, he was a champion of the Bible in an age when that Book is losing its influence as a religious guide. "The Bible is good enough for me," were almost his last words. His enemies charged that he believed that volume literally, but this was not true. He believed what it says of God, of the immortality of the soul, and of another life, because divine revelation is the only means by which man can learn of these things. He believed God to be a God of power, interested in His creatures here below?not a mere machinelike influence ignoring man and his aims. Also he believed Him to be a personage, after whose image man was made. Bryan's last passionate appeal for the truths of the Holy Scriptures, together with the dramatic manner in which he passed away, will do much to brace timid belief that is on the fence these days and the days to come.
The National Council of Social Work
In his presidential address at the opening session of the National Conference of Social Work, William J. Norton, of Detroit, upheld love as the mainspring of social work. Love he described as the "thin film of protection between the wheels of life which lubricates them and keeps the whole machine from burning out in the merciless friction of living," as the force which "lifts man from the plane of the beasts and stretches his stature upward until he can see and hear God." The same theme expressed in terms of more tolerance and forbearance, less race prejudice, greater protection for childhood and youth, better ways and means of promoting all phases of


human welfare, ran through the eleven sections of the conference. This was the fifty-second annual meeting of the Conference of Social Work. It was held at Denver, Colorado, June 10-17, 1925. Many noted educators, physicians, judges, statesmen and sociologists appeared on the programs of the various meetings. Utah contributed two speakers to the conference?President Franklin S. Harris of the Brigham Young University, Provo, who, says the July issue of the "Survey," "made a strong plea for mutual forbearance and understanding;" Miss Adaline Buffington, general secretary Charities Organization Society, Salt Lake City, who spoke on the "Automobile Migrant" And whose discussion of the subject called forth much favorable comment. On the program of the general sessions were such subjects as: "The Menace of Racial and Religious Intolerance," the "Child Labor Amendment," "What Shall We Do About War," "Social Aspects of the Japanese Question." The conference was divided into eleven divisions as follows: Children, Delinquents and Correction, Health, The Family, Industrial and Economic Problems, Neighborhood and Community Life, Mental Hygiene, and so on. The status of women in the new profession of social work and the quality of the leadership they have to contribute was borne out by the election of Miss Gertrude Vaile, a native of Colorado and secretary of the Department of Charities and Corrections of that state, to the presidency; and the election of Dr. Miriam Van Waters, referee of the Juvenile Court of Los Angeles, to the vice-presidency. Such women as Jane Addams, Grace Abbott, Edith Abbott, Julia Lathrop, Dr. Valeria Parker, Judge Mary M. Bartelme served on committees and contributed to the discussions of the conference. Utah was represented by forty-three delegates. From the Relief Society were, Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Julia A. Child, Julia A. F. Lund, Amy W. Evans of the General Board; President Emmaretta G Brown, of the Granite stake; President Electa S. Dixon, of Utah stake; Marie H. Tanner, secretary of Grant stake; Mabel W. James and Bae Williams, of Ensign stake; five members of the staff of the welfare department; and the social worker of Utah stake. Clarissa A. Beesley, of the Y. L. M. I. A., Oscar A. Kirkham of the Y. M. M. I. A. And Clara W. Beebe of the Primary Association attended the conference.