VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1883.	NO. 8.


HEBER C. KIMBALL.

A daughter's hand has raised the veil
	That hid from stranger's view
The spirit gentle, pure and sweet,
	The spirit grand and true;
And those who deemed him stern and mien,
	And swift and keen of word,
Judged by the meed that error won
	In duty's service heard.

Grand in his stature, so his soul,
	In strength majestic bore
A burden if his wounded heart,
	Nor sign of suffering wore;
The eye that pierced the false of heart
	As clouds by lightning riven,
Within the walls of home illumed
	Their lives with light of heaven.

And he, who as commander stood,
	In childlike weakness bent
Pleading fo strength for him, for her
	Whose life with his was blent;
Ah, skeptic, ye who knew him not,
	Your judgement false withhold,
O, rich the gift! if to mankind
	His story could be told.

Scarce less than love he gave to God
	The love he gave to these—
The true companions of his youth,
	And children round their knees;
Yet, on the altar he resigned
	The dearest joys of earth,
And love divine, descending, gave
	Gifts of celestial worth.

A contrite spirit, broken heart,
	And noble work fulfilled,
These were the sheaves he carried home
	When his brave heart was stilled.
Joy, immortality, are his,
	His humblest prayers are won,
And heaven unto earth bequeaths
	The record of its son.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Sunday, Aug. 26th, 1883.


[Column 1]

"BE COURTEOUS."

	These words are a Bible injunction, written
with its usual sublime brevity; but our Lexicons
define the word "courteous" as "civil, well-bred,
kindness, favor, civility"—all this is part of
the Gospel, and should be inserted into our
daily vocabulary, because the exercise of it is
called for continually.
	It is getting to be thought, and taught by
some twilight minds, that affable, pleasant, con-
descending manners are servile! such minds
have no comprehension of what is truth and
beauty; so far from this, there is a high-toned
manner of the most exquisite politeness, that
would perhaps repel a person not accustomed
to etiquette and polite society—almost as much
as a freedom of manner used by an inferior
character.
	It is a general complaint that the children
and young people of the L. D. S. are very de-
fiicient in affability and politeness, i. e., in
good manners in general; and any one who has
mingled in polished society will acknowledge
this to be an absolute fact! Have they ac-
quired the notion from the book of the afore-
said teacher that they will compromise their
dignity by being "courteous"? Let me say—
any one who is satisfied that their dignity is
fully established is never in the least fear of
oompromising it! but when we see a real lady
or gentleman affable, condescending, gentle

[Column 2]

and considerate, even to the mendicant in the
street, and to all they may come in contact
with, a very halo of beauty at once seems to
surround them, and every right feeling heart
exclaims, even if the lip is silent, how beauti-
ful! I have found one I desire to imitate.
	True, genuine politeness is as free as air!
there is no stiffness in it, no "putting on style;"
that is a bogus affair, and at once denotes the
plebian. True nobility is ever humble and
unassuming; they were "born in the purple,"
and wear it naturally as their daily clothing—
Were we to come in contact with the good old
man, the Emperor William, we would see one
we might feel was "one of us"—and a Nor-
wich friend of mine, who often sees the Prince
of Wales riding around, when sojourning at
his seat of Sandringham, speaks of his great
affability to all classes, at the cattle show
shaking hands with the herdsmen, and con-
versing with them as if they were his equals,
and that he is delighted when he finds himself
taken for a Norfolk Squire, etcetera. Queen
Victoria has ever been noted for her conde-
scension; always receiving as favors to herself
the attentions of her court and servants.
	My young friends, drop all paltry assump-
tion, be determined to be natural, but see that
nature is cultivated in the highest school; and
remember, the best and highest teachings you
will find in the Gospel; that alone will give the
first principles of politeness; and those who
graduate through its varied "forms" will most
assuredly attain the covented diploma, that will
fit and qualify them to pass through life, evi-
dencing to everyone by their kind, affable,
condescending self-sacrificing deportment, that
they are living Christians, and consequently
bearing the badge and title of the Church of 
the first-born, even the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, Sept 13, 1883.


"WE AIM AT NOBLE WOMANHOOD."

	What is noble womanhood? Is it to dress,
sing, play upon the organ or piano, or make a
fine appearance in company, all of these ac-
complishments are very well in their places,
but they do not constitute a noble woman. The
mind may be well trained, but unless the gar-
den of the heart is cultivated, and good seed
is sown we will never, no, never make noble
women. There are many people who are well
educated, who are anything but noble in char-
acter.
	Let us set our aim high and then reach it.
We aim at noble womanhood. Let us become
then tru, noble-hearted women wherever we
may be found, whether in the kitchen, garden
or parlor. It does not detract form the lady
to be able to make a nice loaf of bread or cook
a meal of victuals, in fact there is no real lady,
in my estimation, but that thoroughly under-
stands everything pertaining to household af-
fairs. Therefore if we expect to come up to,
our aim, and be true, noble women, we must
understand all these things. There is no place
that makes a young lady appear more lovely
and truly lovable then when looking tenderly
and lovingly after her younger brothers and
sisters, doing everything for the comfort and
happiness of father and mother and never re-
membering self, except so far as dignity of
character and self-respect are necessary to a


noble life. Such a young lady is generally be-
loved by all who know her, she makes sun-
shine wherever she goes, and is what I would
term a noble woman.
	Let us all keep our motto in view, remem-
bering that we are the daughters of God, by
keeping His commandments, being chaste and
pure in every thought, and in the end we will
be worthy the title of "A Noble Woman."
		AUNT HANNAH.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"Friday, January 2nd. The weather was
clear and cold this morning. At an early hour
those who slept in the Temple were stirring,
and a large company had assembled in the ves-
try, waiting for their washings and anointings,
although it had been supposed the work must
cease for a short time for want of oil, but sev-
eral bottles had been brought in for temple
use by various individuals, so that by the time
it was wanted there were seventeen bottles.
These were consecrated	*	*	by the
following persons:	*	*	Amasa Ly-
man, George A. Smith, Joseph Young, Wil-
liam Crosby, A. O. Smoot, Charles C. Rich
and F. D. Richards.	*	*	*	After
the regular exercises and business of the day
were over and the meeting of the High Coun-
cil and the High Priests were closed, we had
some excellent instrumental and vocal music-
several members of the band having been invi-
ted in by Elder Kimball, viz. Wm. Pitt, Wm.
Clayton, J. F. Hutchinson and James Smith-
ers. They performed several very beautiful
pieces of music, and at the request of Presi-
dent Joseph Young played a Fisher's Horn-
pipe, upon which he broke the gravity of the
soene by dancing by himself. President Young
then invited some others to join him in the
dance.	*	*	After a short time
spent in dancing Elder Hyde made a short
address, and requested those present to unite
with him in thanksgiving and prayer to God—
which they did. A new song composed by
Wm. Clayton, called "Come with me," was
first sung by Clayton and Hutchinson, accom-
panied on the violin by Pitt and on the bass
viol by Smithers. When this was over an ad-
dress was made by Elder Hyde. After the ad-
dress and prayer the President gave permission
to any one to speak, or pray, or shout, or speak
in tongues. No one seemed to disposed to use
the opportunity, whereupon the president
arose and made a short address.	*	*
He alluded to the privilege which we now have
of meeting in this house, and said that we
could worship God in the dance, as well as in
other ways.	*	*	The way for us to
grow and thrive is for us to serve the Lord in
all we do; and as we have called upon the dif-
ferent quorums to meet together once a day, so
it will eventually be with the whole Church.
There will be houses for them to meet in. Re-
member the covenants that we have entered
into. No man is to be filled with lightness—
no brother or sister will be allowed to speak
evil of his brother of sister.	*	*	It
is the duty of the quorum to meet together—
we cannot enjoy it but a short time.	*	*


[Column 1]
We will praise the Lord as we please. Now,
as to dancing in this house—there are thou-
sands of brethren and sisters that have labored
to build these walls and put on this roof, and
they are shut out from any opportunity of en-
joying any amusement among the wicked—or
in the world, and shall they have any recrea-
tion? Yes! and this is the very place where
they can have liberty. We will go to a land
where there are at least no old settlers to quar-
rel with us; where we can say we have killed
the snakes and made the roads, and we will
leave this wicked nation to themselves for they
have rejected the Gospel. This church has ob-
tained already all they have labored for in
building this Temple, but after we leave here
(I feel it in my bones) there will be thousands
of men that can go into any part of the world
and build up the kingdom, and build temples.
If any want to faint, let them faint. If there
are any that don't want to go with us, don't
urge them. The United States Government
says, if we let the Mormons go out from this
nation they will give us trouble. Well, per-
haps their fears will come upon them. Where
is there a city of refuge on the face of the
earth but this? They have tried to break us
up, but with all their officers, all their troops
and all their power we are here yet. They
have got writs out for me, but they have not
got me yet, and when they do get me they will
get something else, I assure you. From Polk
down to the meanest bogus maker or whisky
seller it was resolved to break up the "Mor-
mons" this fall; and if I had hearkened to Col.
Backenstos we should have been broken up
and all put out of the way. Bnt when he re-
ceived correct instructions he acted right, and
the plan and trap which our enemies laid for
us worked so that it gave us the advantage
over them; and when he went according to
counsel he came off victorious every time.
We are hunted and persecuted and our enemies
try to trouble us in every way. We need a lit-
tle recreation. My mind is continually upon
the stretch, because I know the Church must
be saved. The Gospel must be preached to
all the world. Temples must be built, and
then add to this all minor matters, I tell you
no man knows, or can know the burden and
responsibility that rests upon my mind, unless
he experiences it. One thing I will do, I will
do my utmost to break down every thing that
divides; I will not have division and conten-
tion, and I mean that there shall not be a fid-
dle in this Church but what has Holiness to
the Lord upon it, nor a flute, nor a trumpet,
nor any other instrument of music. If Jos-
eph Smith had lived we should not have been
here, we should have been in some other country.
We can't stay in this house but a little while.
We have got to build another house; it will be
a larger house than this, and a more glorious
one, and we shall build a great many more; we
shall come back here, and we shall go to Kirt-
land, and build houses all over the continent
of North America. Last night we had some
of our young folks here—some of our children,
and they all covenanted that they would no
more mingle with the wicked. After closing
his remarks he gave permission for all that
wished to retire to do so."
	The traditions of our forefathers, which we
all inherited a portion of, were such that
dancing was once thought among the unpar-
donable sins. In the early days of Kirtland,
I remember that the ones guilty of indulging
in so gross a sin as dancing were considered
worthy of being disfellowshipped. They, like the
sects of the day, had received their training from
the old school where to sing a song or to laugh
or run upon the Sabbath day was too much for
the sanctity of those who believed in burning
men, women and children as witches, etc. At
the same time they professed to believe in the
Holy Bible, and upon which all profess

[Column 2]
to have founded their religion. But there we
find nothing to condemn dancing; but we do
read in Exodus, chapter xv, 20 21 verses:
	"And Miriam, the prophetess, the sister of
Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand, and all the
women went out after her with timbrels and
with dances. And Miriam answered them,
"Sing ye to the Lord, for He hath triumphed
gloriously." This same spirit was what filled
the hearts of the Saints of Nauvoo, who had
builded a Temple to the Most High. In the
midst of the most bitter poverty and persecu-
tion they had proven their faith by their works.
The Lord had been their shield and their de-
fense; though scourged and smitten from time
to time they had no cause to doubt but he
would still protect them and fight their battles.
This He had promised, through Joseph the
Prophet, that He would do, like as he did to
Moses in the case of the children of Israel if
they would go forward and do His bidding,
and after being delivered even out of the
seventh trouble their joy and gratitude was
poured out to their Deliverer in music and the
dance, and they felt to sing, "Thou in thy
mercy hast led forth the people, which thou
hast redeemed: thou hast guided them in thy
strength unto thy holy habitation."

"I'ts not to go to church to-day
And look devout and seem to pray,
And e'er to-morrow's sun goes down
Be dealing scandal through the town."

	"There are six things that the Lord hates,
yea, seven that He abhors—a proud look and
a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent
blood, a heart that deviseth evil imaginations,
feet that be swift to run to mischief, the false
witness that speaketh lies and he that soweth
discord among brethren."
	No one can truthfuly say that either Joseph
Smith's prophetic words, or those spoken by
Brigham Young and his brethren have failed.
Thousands upon thousands of this people can
testify to the fulfilment of their words spoken
concerning this latter day work in that early
day up to this time. They were placed upon
record for us and our posterity to read, fore-
telling events and what should be accomplished
in a far off country, of which we then knew
little or nothing. Then how can we disbelieve
the rest? And have we not witnessed and
helped to fulfil many of the predictions of
Isaiah? How plain and beautiful are these
words: "And there shall be a highway for the
remnant of His people, which shall be left
from Assyria, like as it was to Israel in the
day that he came up out of the land of
Egypt."
	"O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get
thee up into the high mountains; lift up thy
voice with strength, lift it up, be not afraid:
say unto the cities of Judah, Behold you God!
Who are these that fly as a cloud, and as the
doves to their windows? And the sons of
strangers shall build up thy walls, and their
kings shall minister unto thee, for in my wrath
I smote thee, but in my favor have I had mer-
cy on thee."
	"The sons also of them that afflicted thee
shall come bending unto thee; and all they
that despised thee shall bow themselves at the
soles of thy feet; and they shall call thee the
city of the Lord, the Zion of the Holy One of
Israel." "Fear not: for I am with thee: I will
bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee
from the west; I will say to the north give up;
and to the south keep not back: bring my sons
from far and my daughters from the ends of
the earth." We have cause to believe that
many of the sons and daughters of those who
persecuted the Saints are coming to a knowl-
edge of the truth, and already they are gather-
ing up to Zion; and how vain are the efforts of
man to put a veto to the great Latter-day
work which the Grand Ruler of the universe
has put his hand to, to accomplish in this the

[Column 3]
last dispensation of the fulness of time. Is it
not the sons of strangers that have brought
strength and muscle, and have builded our
walls and our cities, and assisted in bringing
this barren soil under subjection? Who are
these that fly as a cloud, and as the doves to
our windows, but the remnant of His people?
The prophet also said, "And the Gentiles shall
come to thy light, and the kings to the bright-
ness of thy rising. Lift up thine eyes round
about, and see: they gather themselves together,
they come to thee: thy sons shall come from
far and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy
side."
	But how many have remained true to those
sacred covenants made in the house of the
Lord, and continued true to the same? Has
He not been merciful, long-suffering and for-
bearing with us during all the years of our
pilgrimage? With all our sinfulness and in-
gratitude He has still extended towards us a
hand of mercy and prosperity. But are we
deserving the title of Latter-day Saints—follow-
ing as we are doing in the ways of Babylon,
and mixing up with the Gentile world till we
can scarcely be distinguished from them? "De-
part ye, depart ye, go ye out from thence,
touch no unclean thing; go ye out from the
midst of her, be ye clean that bear the vessels
of the Lord." So spoke the prophet Isaiah.
If we could but realize the great loss that we
are sustaining by disobeying any of the com-
mandments of God and remember that we
have got to render up to Him a strict account
for every act, word, and even every idle
thought, we would certainly do different, and
I think we would be more careful and put a
double guard upon that unruly member which
causes so many needless pangs and heart burn-
ings by the unfeeling criticisms, evil speaking
and tale bearing which are so commonly indul-
ged in—making mountains out of mole hills,
thereby sowing the seeds of enmity and dis-
cord and hatred between brothers and sisters,
and by those, too, who have covenanted before
God and His angels that they would cease the
practice and do it no more. Nor would there
be so striking a line drawn between the rich
and the poor by following and apeing, not
only the Babylonish styles, which are fast
creeping into our midst with all their stiff and
aristocratic forms, but other great evils which
are growing out of it. Pride and high mind-
edness we know that the Lord will not coun-
tanance. They are not according to the Gos-
pel nor the pattern set by our Savior, whose
only associates (we read) were the poor, and
they were looked down upon just as they are
to-day. It is very humiliating to confess that
we have such things in Zion, but which cannot
long be permitted for they are among the
greatest of sins, and which are calculated to
lead men and women down to perdition.

To be Continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LEMUEL, NOT SOLOMON.
DUBUQUE, Iowa, August 7th, 1883.
	"H. B. B.” recently contrasted Dr. Ham-
mond's idea of women with the description of
a virtuous woman found in Proverbs, and at-
tributed its authorship to King Solomon. But
this wisdom did not come from any love-sick
Solomon. The words are those of King Lem-
uel;—“the prophecy that his mother taught him.”
Apparently she “jumped at this conclusion;” a
wise one, considering her "neurotical condi-
tion."
	It is the abnormal, hysterical women who
usually put themselves under the care of male
physicians. Then these physicians judge all
women by these invalids. Doctors, like the
Hebrews, see a "fall," whenever women, Eve's
daughters, desire progress.
	MARY N. ADAMS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIFE.

I watched a bud, as morning light
	Burst o'er the earth;
I saw it, as its leaves so bright
	Received their birth!

I saw it, when the noonday sun
	Shed forth its rays;
Its beauty seemed my sense to shun—
	I sang its praise!

I watched once more—the sun had set—
	Its beauty fled—
Around me nought save leaves I met
	To show 'twas dead.

And such is life—we blossom, die;
	Our acts remain,
Which, like the leaves, around do lie
	To mark our reign!

	JAMES H. WALLIS.
Salt Lake City, September 8th, 1883.


FOOT-PRINTS.

I was musing one day as I passed along
A thoroughfare trod by the daily throng,
In their calls to labor to and fro,
Or on missions of love or pleasure go.

Musing and reading the story found
In the language of footprints upon the ground,
A language few study or stop to read,
As they rush along at a lightning speed.

Some are here yet that I've watched for years,
Watched with trembling hopes and fears;
As I view the dangers that lie between
The present and future so dimly seen.

Some have passed on to the other side,
And the foot-prints have faded 'neath time's swift
	tide;
And some indelible stand to-day,
As milestones to guide the stranger's way.

I have watched in the days your four little feet,
Your little forms in beanty complele;
Sweet names we called them—May and Gay—
But in the bright spring-time one passed away.

And we wept for the lost and the one still left,
For her heart was broken, her life bereft,
But the little hands beckoned beyond the tide,
And now they're together the other side.

Foot-prints, oh, foot-prints, the tales you tell,
How many feet faltered, how many fell;
Some we thought firm as the Rock of God,
In an hour unguarded let go the Rod,

The Iron Rod that must guide our feet,
Till we gain the victory grand, complete.
Oh, Christ in heaven, the weak make strong,
And guard in this hour of sin and wrong.

Here are tiniest feet just entering in,
Here is youth and manhood strong to win,
Here's the footsore and weary whose journey's near
	done,
Whose crown for eternity's lost or won.

Here's the school-girl and maiden with bright dreams
	untold,
Here's the fallen whose virtue's been bartered and sold;
The strong and the feeble, the sin-stained and pure,
All mark the same thoroughfare, who will endnre

And keep safe their birthright life, endless life,
While making their journey 'mid trials and strife?
Again—oh our Father—let Thy love descend,
And guide us in safety e'en unto the end.

HOPE.


[Column 1]

BUCKEYES.

WHICH OF THE TWO SHALL VOTE.

	"Emigrants are coming to this country at
the rate of 5,000 to 6,000 per week. Did yon
read that, Harry?" asked Mrs. Dyle as she
turned over the paper to find the Society News
column.
	"Let 'em come," said her hnsband without
taking his eyes off Clara Belle's article, which

[Column 2]

he was hungrily devouring, in the Cincinnati
Enquirer.
	"Do you think it is well to encourage emi-
gration at such rates? I should deem it wiser
to limit it somewhat, and keep our lands for
ourselves. It looks to me like America will
be in the position of aged parents who have
unwisely given all the property to the children
and made themselves dependent on the unwil-
ling support of the children. Don't you think
so, Harry?"
	"Y-e-s, y-e-s, I guess—what did you say—
have you read Clara Belle's article?"
	"Of course not, when you have had the pa-
per ever since it came. I never read them any-
way. I was speaking of foreigners filling up
this country so rapidly, and asked if you ap-
proved of it."
	"What do I care, why need you; it is none
of our affairs."
	"None of our affairs! a'rn't we American
citizens, is it none of our affairs who comes into
our home? Are you—"
	Her husband laughed out, which caused
Mrs. Dyle to arise and push aside her chair so
suddenly that Harry looked up startled. "You
need not laugh," she said half angrily, "what
did I say so funny?"
	"Why, why, Bess, I wasn't laughing at you;
didn't you hear what you said, I was laughing
about Langtry and Freddy Gebhart—the pa-
pers say—O, yes, you were talking against
foreigners coming to this country; well, why
are you put out about it?"
	His wife made no answer, but continued her
reading, so he turned again to his. After a
few moments she asked: "What length of time
must these 1,000, out of the 5,000 who came
last week, remain before they are privileged
to vote—have a voice in law making for the
country? No doubt one fifth, at least, of the
number are males."
	Mrs. Dyle stood with flushed cheeks and
her black eyes flashing as she asked this ques-
tion.
	"Five years," her husband answered, "they
must live here five years and then become nat-
uralized citizens. They can know all about
the country in that length of time if they
read the daily papers."
	"Yes, certainly; if they read all Clara
Belle's articles, and everything that's said
about Mrs. Langtry and that Fred Gebhart,"
Mrs. Dyle answered, somewhat scornfully.
"How long has Pete Swarty, who keeps the sa-
loon on the corner, been here—ten years?
What does he know, or care about the coun-
try's right or wrong; is he as well qualified to
vote as I am?"
	"You! Do you want to vote?,'
	"No matter whether I do or not; but one ar-
gument brought against women voting is, that
'twill only increase the number of votes to be
counted and do no good. I think the same ar-
gument will apply to these emigrants."
	Mr. Dyle looked at his wife with a smile
which seemed a mixture of admiration and
contempt. Then got up, with a yawn, stretched
himself and went out, saying loftily: "Let
women attend to their own affairs; they know
nothing about politics."
	And, in his absence; Mrs. Dyle thought
over his words and felt—mad. "When he re-
turns we will compare notes and see which is
the best informed on political matters," she
said to herself.
		CHAPTER SECOND.
	Teatime arrived, but not Harry. Mrs. Dyle
had overcome her anger and was looking very
sweet and complacent in her white dress with
sprays of scarlet flowers in her hair and at her
throat. She had not given up her determina-
tion to have a political talk with her husband,
but, as a wise woman that she was, had con-

[Column 3]

cluded that she did know but little and would
ask for information.
	Everything was perfect in their little dining
room with its cool matting, choice pictures,
neatly set table and glittering crystal and sil-
ver-ware on the side-board. Mrs. Dyle prided
herself on being a perfect house-keeper, and
was an affectionate, good-tempered wife with-
al. She waited nearly an hour for the com-
ing of her liege lord, then drank her tea, ate
a little of the good bread; cake and fruit—her
heart growing heavy and sad.
	Too well she surmised the cause of his tardi-
ness. Doubtless he had found some compan-
ions who had also been reading of Langtry
and Gebhart and were toasting.
	She still waited another hour, then cleared
the tea-table, and taking a book on political
economy went to the parlor to read.
	A little after ten o'clock Harry came in.
Harry! Was it Harry, her husband? The
man who had left her in the afternoon with
such a pompous walk, who had said, "let wo-
man mind her own affairs, etc." was a fine
looking man in faultless attire—this man who
had just entered had his hat crushed in, and
on one side; his clothes were bespattered with
mud; there is nothing proud or manly in his
walk or appearance. His arms hang limp at
his side and the spit runs from his mouth as he
says with a foolish smile, "W-e-l-l, B-e-s-s, wat
yer (hic) 'pinion (hic) pol (hic) tics, eh?"
	Mre. Dyle looked at him in silence as he
dropped upon the sofa and sank into a drunk-
en sleep immediately, then, as she tried to re-
move his boots, she said, "One of the lords of
creation, oh, lordy!"
	EMILY SCOTT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Annual meeting of the American Woman
Suffrage Association will be held in Brook-
lyn, N. Y., on the 9th and 10th of October, in
the Academy of Music.

	Mrs. Margaret W. Campbell has devoted
most of August to Northwestern Iowa, in Clay,
Dickinson, O'Brien, Monena, Ida, Sac and
Carroll Counties.

	At last the will of Mrs. Eddy, of Boston,
has been approved. This generous lady left
$32,000, to be equally devided between Lucy
Stone of Mass. and Susan B. Anthony of New
York, to be used in the interest of "Woman's
Rights Cause." She has also left some money
to Wendell Phillips.

	If the men who devote themselves with pa-
thetically unprofitable zeal to exposing the
weaknesses of women would only spend half
as much time and ingenious effort in curing
these weaknesses, women would soon be Sam-
sons in intellect and morals.—Mrs. May Wright
Sewall.

	Miss Willard's California campaign "netted"
the W. C. T. U. of that State over one thou-
sand dollars, resulting from the collections
taken at her meetings. This she was strenous-
ly urged to take and use for her own necessi-
ties and work, but preferred to leave it behind
her to continue the ministration so well be-
gun.—Ex.

	Our Herald, published in Lafayette, Iudi-
ana, comes this week in a new form. It con-
tains 20 pages of matter, and is in size suitable
for binding. It will be issued the first Satur-
day of each month, and continues to be the
organ of the N. W. S. A. as it was when
printed weekly. It is always full of news,
fresh and interesting. The editor, Mrs. Helen
M. Gougar, is one of the brightest shrewdest
women in America, good looking and
pleasing in her manner, tasteful in dress, and
one of the finest speakers on the platform.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1883.


L. D. S. WOMEN'S MEETINGS.

	The Ladies' Conference at Provo commenced
August 30 ult., at 10 a.m., in the meeting
house. Mrs. Zina Young Williams, President
of Primary Associations of that Stake presid-
ing. Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Mrs. H. M. Whitney
of Salt Lake were present and addressed the
Conference.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. held their Conference in
the afternoon and evening, Mrs. Jane H. Tan-
ner presiding. President E. S. Taylor addressed
the meeting on subjects pertaining to their pro-
gress and advancement, urged them to live pure
and upright lives and keep the commandments
of God.
	August 31 the Relief Society Conference con-
vened at the same place at 10 a.m., Mrs. Mary
Johns, Counselor to Mrs. M. T. Smoot, presid-
ing, Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and E. B.
Wells were there to attend the meetings and ad-
dressed the sisters for a short time after the re-
ports had been given from all parts of the coun-
ty. These reports showed the Relief Society to
be in an exceedingly prosperous condition fi-
nancially. And each of the local sisters, those
who spoke, seemed to be growing and improv-
ing in spiritual things.
	In the afternoon Counselor John was neces-
sarily absent and by her request President E.
R. Snow Smith presided. Sisters Whitney,
Taylor and Wells each made a few remarks,
and then Sister Eliza R. S. Smith addressed the
congregation on various subjects of importance.
Sister Daniels made some remarks, and was fol-
lowed by Bishops Johnson and Madsen and
Mother Duke. During the afternoon Sister H.
A. B[-]ebee, President of Utah County Silk As-
sociation, gave an interesting account of the
progress made in silk culture. Sisters E. S.
Taylor and H. M. Whitney visited all the set-
tlements of Utah County south of Provo, hold-
ing meetings at Springville, Spanish Fork, Sa-
lem, Payson, Santaquin and Goshen. They
were absent nearly two weeks, and held twen-
ty-one meetings with the people in the county.
	On Wednesday, September 5, the Relief Socie-
ty Conference of Summit Stake was held at
Kama, Mrs. Mary J. Attwood presiding. Mrs.
E. Howard from Salt Lake was present and
addressed the meeting. The Y. L. M. I. A.
was held on the 6th, Mrs. Mary Rhead, Presi-
dent of Y. L. M. I. A. of Summit Stake, presi-
ing, Mrs. Howard giving instructions and en-
couraging the youg in the path of duty. Sept.
7 the Primary Conference was held, Mrs. Louie
Felt of the Salt Lake City, President of all the
Primary Associations, was present, and her re-
marks to the children were excellent and glad-
ly received. Mrs. Felt also accompanied Mrs.
Lovisa Roundy, the President of the Primary
Associations of Summit Stake, to one or two

[Column 2]
other places where they held meetings and
transacted some business in the interest of the
children.
	Thursday morning, Sept. 6, President E. R.
Snow Smith left the city on a visit to Box El-
der Co., and to attend the Ladies Conference
to be held in Brigham City. She will probably
stay at her brother's, Apostle Lorenzo Snow's,
two or three weeks. Sister Margaret P. Young
accompanied Sister E. R. S. S. to Brigham
City.
	Saturday and Sunday the Relief Society, Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary of Tooele County held
their Conference at Tooele. Sisters E. Howard
and Rachel R. Grant of this city attended and
had an interesting time. The meetings were
presided over by their respective presidents.
Relief Society, Mrs. M. A. Hunter: Y. L. M. I.
A., Mrs. Ann Tate; Primary Ass'n, Mrs. Sarah
Hale.
	Tuesday, Sept. 11, a special meeting of the P.
A. of Union, S. L. Co., was held. M. I. Horne,
Lydia Ann Wells and E. C. Clawson of this
city were present. Bishop Phillips presided
over the meeting. A reorganization of the As-
sociation was effected.
	Wednesday the Relief Society of Union held
their annual meeting, Mrs. Elizabeth Richards
presiding. Present from the city, Mrs. M. I.
Horne and Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, both of whom
addressed the meeting.
	Friday morning, Sept. 14, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Zina D. H. Young started for Sanpete to
meet with the sistesr of that Stake in their quar-
terly Conference at Ephraim on Saturday and
Sunday, 15 and 16. They will probably visit
Manti, Mount Pleasant and some other parts
of the county.


[For the Exponent.]
TWO BOOKS.

	Brother J. W. B. Jacobsen of Logan informs
me that he has the Agency for Utah Ter. for the
sale of books, entitled,

"FOR GIRLS,"
AND
"HOW TO FEED THE BABY."

	I have very carefully read specimen copie
of both, and find nothing in them but what
might have been written by Latter-day
Saints, and I heartily recommend them to
every household—not only as books to be read,
but to be studied and kept on hand for refer-
ence.	E. R. S. S.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	It is the 73rd anniversary of the birth of our
beloved and honored sister and mother in Isra-
el, Presendia L. Kimball. A goodly number of
the friends of this excellent lady have gathered
at her peaceful, quiet home in the 16th Ward,
as an acknowledgement of their appreciation of
her worth. They come with cheerful, happy
faces, their hearts full of blessings and baskets
of picnic. Sister Mary Gray takes charge of the
baskets and, with aids, arranges the tables pre-
paratory to lunch. No dinner ever surpasses a
well arranged picnic, (according to the writer’s
estimate) and such we partook of to-day. It is
not alone the ample repast which is provided to
satiate the appetite of the physical being, but
the pleasant chat, the kindly feeling and com-
pliments expressed, the soul-reviving senti-
ments which are sure to find utterance, and the
perfect freedom which exists around such tables,
that makes picnic dinners peculiarlly enjoya-
ble. Dinner over, we repaired to the cozy little
sitting room, and there resolve into a formal
meeting, over which Sister Phoebe Woodcuff

[Column 2]
being the senior lady present, is appointed to
preside. 
	Singing, “Come let us anew." Prayer by
Sister Lucy Russell. Sister Woodruff speaks of
the blessings surrounding us to-day, contrasting
these times to those in which her memory re-
calls, in connection with other similar events, a
day when one fine apple was given to her. This
apple she cut in four pieces, and each piece
served to make a dumpling for a dinner, and so
they had a good dinner each day for four days.
Sister Presendia saw such times; she has known
the trials and hardships through which the
Saints have passed, and now it is befitting that
her sisters should honor and bless her as they do
to-day. She has blest others all her life, and
may she be blest and live yet many years to
enjoy blessings upon this earth.
	Speeches follow from Sisters McLean, S. R.
Greene, Sanders, McAllister, Miss Vilate Cole,
Sisters Fanny Huntington, Fulmer, Miner,
Yure, Pyper, Pall, Paul, Dr. E. B. Furguson,
Buchannan, Brockhold, M. Gray, A. J. Hawley,
Rolfe, Harvey, Watmough, Emma Toone, Z.
D. Young, S. E. Russell and L. G. Richards.
	All ask blessings of long continued life and
happiness upon Sister Presendia; and testify to
the great power with which she is gifted in call-
ing down the blessings of God upon others, in
anointing and administering; also of her kind
and motherly disposition, her loving, sympa-
thetic nature, her wise counsel to the weak and
sorrowful, and her liberal heart and hands
toward all needing. The sisters are requested
to arise, and Sister Zina takes the lead in offer-
ing up petitions to the Almighty in behalf of
several friends who are seriously afflicted, to
which all unitedly responded Amen!
	Sister Presendia makes a brief speech. Her
heart is full of gratitude and blessings for her
sisters, and thankfulness to God. He blesses
her, she knows not how, only that she has what
she needs in the time thereof. She blesses her
sisters one and all, and hopes they are as happy
as their presence, with the favor of God, have
made her this day.
	She sits down, but is requested to take an-
other seat. She arises to comply with this re-
quest, and as she is about to take the chair
placed for her in the centre of the company, a
large and handsome winter cloak, appropriate
to her position and age, is thrown and wrapped
around her by Dr. Furguson, the instigator of
the plot. (This is not superfluous, my dear read-
ers, Sister Presendia had no comfortable winter
wrapper of any sort.)
	“This is too much!” said the “queen of the
day,” quite overcome. “Yes," responds one of
her court, coming forward for a kiss, “it is too
much and too warm for to-day, you are to wear
it next winter.”
	Then Sister Woodruff says, if we all want to
kiss “Aunt Presendia,” to do so, and then we
will dismiss. So we all kiss her while the cloak
is still around her.
	Perfect order is again established. We sing,
“Do what is right, let the consequence follow,"
and are dismissed with prayer by Sister E.
Toone. L. G. R.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 7, 1883.


FOREIGN EXHIBITION.

	The Foreign Exhibition is, of course, the
great attraction in Boston this year. Through
the perseverance of Miss—and myself, and
on account of being connected with the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT and the courtesy of Miss
Nellie Brightman, Assistant Secretary, I had
the extreme pleasure of being shown through
the building, though at that time it was not
completed and consequently not easy to be ad-
mitted under any circumstances whatever. Af-


ter receiving my pass and a letter of introduc-
tion to a young gentleman inside, he very kind-
ly escorted me through the rooms and gave me
information in regard to the display. The main
building was superbly decorated with Turkish
and Persian rugs draped from ceiling to floor
and caught back with all colors and shades of
ribbon. This draping alone presents the most
gorgeous spectacle. Around this immense room
is a gallery in which each nation has its section
the lower floor is devoted to brilliant displays
from them all. It would be impossible to make
mention of the articles as they were so numer-
ous, and all so wonderfully wrought and beauti-
ful. Models in clay from Scandianavia, glass
ware, stone work, etc., etc., wonderfully made,
of which we have not space to tell. The hall
beyond was being fitted up for all manufactured
industries of every description, from confection-
ery stands to the exquisite glass and china paint-
ing from Germany, also lace work, machine
work and embroidery from all parts of the world.
All hands were busy here in packing and ar-
ranging. From this department we went up
into the Art room, and here the preparations
were almost completed; such a world of life,
so sublimely portrayed in marble and on canvas
that this seemed to me the most magnificent of
all. The placing and hanging was perfect in an
artistic point of view, and enabled the looker on
to observe aach one in particular as they were
arranged so that each gave new life and color to
the next. The pictures were mostly from Italy,
though Paris and Germany added their host of
beauties. There are many that we might men-
tion, but I fear my description would not be
vivid enough to enable the reader to imagine
them in all their grandeur, so I will only draw
attention to the one painted by the Princess
Louise, as this name alone would be sufficient
to call forth a great deal of curiosity. It is life
size and of a lady in meditation; there was a
grayness about the picture that made it inter-
esting to me, and quite objectionable to others
who were around me. The face was of noble
outline, regular features, no color abont it, and
gray eyes, the background and dress were gray,
which to me gave it a very sad, sweet look,
while some others who had seen it, I learned,
thought it too sombre. The statuary was ex-
quisite, and the display immense, one which I
recall very forcibly was of a child catching but-
terflies; this was beautiful beyond description,
I could go on mentioning one picture or piece of
statuary after another, but 'twould be in vain as
they all should be seen to be appreciated. There
was also in an adjoining room a wonderful dis-
play of tiles, statuary in bronze, needle work,
silk work, wood carving and everything; pro-
ducts, arts and manufactures of all nations. It
is needless to say that it will be a success, as all
the world are interested in it. It opens Septem-
ber 3, 1883, in remembrance of the Centennial
anniversary signing of the treaty of peace by
the representatives of the nations of the Uni-
ted States, Great Britain, France and Spain. In
some instances it is said, it will rival the Cen-
tennial and will be the first wholly FOREIGN
Fxhibition ever held in the world. It is under
the direction of the Foreign Exhibition Associa-
tion, Boston, Massachusetts, U. S. A. Incorpor-
ated 1882. The building in which the Exhibi-
tion takes place is quite central; it was erected
at the cost of over half a million dollars and was
constructed solely for this purpose.
								BEATRICE.
	Boston, August 27, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 61div="">WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				61
		
	div="">				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				61


A VENERABLE WOMAN, which has been
omitted in the last two numbers, will be con-
tinued in our next.


[Column 1]
﻿LETTER IV.

BOSTON, August 25, 1883

MY DEAR FATHER:
	I got along famously with the Dickinsons, as
you no doubt have heard, and I hope you were
pleased with my visit.		*		*		*		*
	When I bade you good bye before leaving
home you seemed to feel a little frightened
about Belle and myself coming alone, but we
have gotten on wonderfully, and by being care-
ful and prudent have never had the slightest
difficulty, and all things have gone on so
smoothly that I often feel there is a special care
to guard us safely. I have constantly thought
of your telling me about your prayers whenever
you were journeying, and I have always prayed
for the safety of all. How mysteriously and
beautifully does God perform his work; I could
not but think of this as I sat in that meeting at
Amherst, to see the interest that is being taken
in hunting out genealogies, and how they had
worked, not knowing the why and wherefore,
only that they had that ardent desire to trace
the lines of their ancestry, they know not why.
Some of the gentlemen said they had spent the
greater part of their time for six years in this
way.
	We have succeeded in finding out some our-
selves, I am happy to say, some Dickinsons,
Woodwards and Whitneys. We are having a
delightful time and in our humble way, I trust,
doing some good in allaying prejudice. We
have a great many questions asked us and have
met a great many nice people; I constantly pray
for wisdom that I might be enabled to answer
any question correctly and in a manner that
would please both you and my dear mother.
	Boston is a grand, old city and we have en-
joyed our sight seeing so much to-day. I wish
you could have been here with us; so many
points of historical interest in which you above
all others take such delight, among the first is
Bunker's Hill and the monument, they kindly
pointed out to us the exact spot where the
breastworks were erected and the position of all
the troops, and the place where Gen. Warren
fell. We also saw here a copy of the real Bos-
ton news Letter, yellow and torn, it is placed
under a glass case outside the hall; we bought
a copy from the real one as a curiosity. At the
back of the monument is a statue of Prescott.
We next visited the soldiers' monument a short
distance from "the Hill." This is of white
stone and consists of three figures; one I suppose
to be the goddess of liberty with a wreath of
flowers in her hand, and just below on the right
a soldier equipped for battle ,on the left a sailor,
thus representing the navy and military depart-
ments. Next came the navy yard; how grand
the big vessels did look.		*		*		*
Our trip to Boston from New York yesterday,
especially up the Hudson river was grand, such
scenery, totally beyond my poor pen to describe.
We arrived in Boston this morning about 7
o'clock, and have been sight seeing all day, so
we are pretty well given out.		*		*		*
	Your loving daughter,			LOUIE.

				ST. LOUIS, Sept. 3, 1883.

MY DEAR MOTHER:
	In your last letter you said you were disap-
pointed at not hearing all about the dear old
places in New England, but really, although I
bathed in the same brook where Aunt Delia said
she thought you got your inspiration, still I did
not feel that I could do justice to the hallowed
spot.		*		*		*		*		*
	Aunt P. and D., Belle and myself ran over all
those dear hills, by the brook, over the moss
covered rocks, gathered ferns and berries just as
you did in that happy childhood of which you
have so often told us. O, how we all enjoyed

[Column 2]
it, Aunt D. told us so many sweet things about
your childhood, how once she led you all into
that very brook after you had held your little
meeting until she was tired, and how grandma
punished her for it. She laughed and cried as
she told it to me. None of us allowed ourselves
to get tired, but climbed up those dear old places
until we exhausted every favorite spot. We
took our lunch and ate it under the large pines
that grow in with the hemlocks at the back of
the house. Aunt P. and D. felt like children
that day, and it was really touching to see those
gray-haired sisters visiting the scenes of their
childhood. Who could write the volumes they
thought? Every now and then some pine nee-
dle or nut would drop on our heads, and how we
would start, and then our good aunts would
have some happy little incident to tell of when
they were girls, and the big tears stood in our
eyes many and many a time during that blessed
day. I shall have so much to tell you about old
places and friends. We went to the minister's
house, the parsonage where the minister, whose
wife you have told us so much about, lived, also
to Col. Whittaker's place and it is still very
grand thongh so old. Aunt Delia has sent you
such a nice picture of the old homestead; she
said it would remind you of many a happy day.
The old schoolhouse where you used to attend
school, and the very seat you sat in. I could
hardly tear myself away; in each place I staid
longer than any one for I loved to be alone, O,
why I cannot tell you, only that I seemed near-
er you and nearer the old days, and the silence
was sweet, you know how it is to feel thus, just
as we do when we visit the graves of those we
have loved, so I felt when I visited the places
once so dear to you. The little village church,
just the same old-fashioned seats and pews, and
we sang the Doxology there, for our hearts
were so full that we all had to give vent to our
feelings in some way. I stood just in the same
place where you once stood to sing and cousin
Lilian played the melodian. I never had seen
anything like it before, it was so old, but just as
sweet-toned as of yore, and many a tremble
there was in many a voice as we sang the good
old hymn. The folks all thought me so much
like you, dear mother, that they said they could
scarcely realize that they were not back again to
their childhood. The north pond where you
used to gather water lilies was just as beautiful
as ever, but I thought it too large to be called a
pond; there had been a great many lilies but
they had almost all closed up. It is as beautiful
as any thing I ever saw, such mossy banks, tall
frees, water lilies and boats made it so pictur-
esque that one could scarcely imagine it real.	*
	We visited so many of the old places, and
heard so many little incidents it all seemed so
real that we would be laughing and crying all
at the same time. The little juniper tree we
have so often heard you speak of is now a large
tree, and it is so beautiful, how I wish you could
see it. I broke off a branch for you.
	The next day we went to Petersham, where
you were born, and where the family home-
stead has remained for generations. What a de-
lightful spot it is! The once quiet village is
now a favorite summer resort, with many hand-
some hotels and numbers of the dear old houses
all filled with people, used as boarding houses.
We went to the old home where your father and
grandfather were born. We went through the
house from garret to cellar, into every nook and
corner, but we did not find any barrels of cider,
nor yet large quantities of honey or maple
sugar such as you have told us about, they are
gone now. Aunt Pallas knew everything for
she was older than aunt Delia, and she could
remember so much about the former days. How
many amusing things she did tell us of those


good,old times. She said she could see her grand-
father sit there just as he used to, and each one
in the old family circle. But they are all gone
now, and another generation of a very different
manner of living has possession, and the house
is kept by people just to preserve its identity.
We lunched in the very same old parlor where
your grandfather, great-grandfather and his
father used to sit and enjoy themselves socially
and entertain their friends. How very wonder-
ful it all seemed, there were the same old halls
and bedrooms, the antique fireplaces, and the
little corner ones in the bedrooms, cupboards
from ceiling to floor with their funny brass
handles, old and worn, and queer corner cup-
boards, too, such as I had never seen. Aunt P.
was very thoughtful and would every few min-
utes tell us some pretty little thing that caused
a merry laugh through the dear old halls; she
had not been there for a great many years, and
it was all as interesting to her as to us, who had
come so far to see the places so dear in the
memory of our mother. I made several sketches
there, the folks say they are quite natural. We
saw some people who remembered you when
a little girl trotting off to school. It did seem
so strange to us that they should recollect you
just as a little child.
	The places where the old factories stood are
much the same, but they are gone, though the
water still rolls on over its immense rocks. O,
those beautiful hills, brooks and meadows, how
I did see you gathering nuts and berries, and
running, bathing your face in the clear brook
that babbled on, Winter and Summer. Aunt
Della said 'twas all the same, you could never
feel right until you had run down to the brook
and bathed, "and that," she said to us, "is the
place where your mother drank in her inspira-
tion." She fancied she could see you under
those grand old trees with your dollies or some
fascinating book, and O how I watched you
trip through the meadows, over the hills, laugh-
ing and singing; I cannot tell you half I saw or
heard during those two days now, but will tell
you when I get home. I saw your old friend,
and she told us so much of your intimacy, and
her hair is still raven black and hangs in long
ringlets as when you knew her. She said, tell
you her happiest thoughts were of you and those
old days.		*		*		*		*		*
	I have so much to say about these things that
I could go on writing for ever, but I know I
must hurry as it is getting near time for us to
leave. In Boston we had an excellent time,
and though we were not there long thanks to
our relatives who knew every nook and corner
we saw Boston thoroughly. I forgot to tell you
before that we visited all the old graves at Pe-
tersham and I managed to get a great many
names and dates of the family. The cemetery
is a beautiful old place, and the ferns were al-
most as high as bushes. It had such a sweet,
sad charm for me on account of its being old-
fashioned and a little neglected, and I lingered
about the dear old graves until the party be-
came impatient. We repeated, "Three little
Graves," aunt P. remembered it so well, it
seemed so quiet and sacred that such a little
thing was really appropriate. There were many
other places we wanted to go to, but they all
took so much time and we were limited for time
and could not do more than we did. We are
going now to Atchison to see our relatives there
and then directly home, we shall be glad to
get home to you all again, I feel as if I could
scarcely wait.	*		*	Love to all.
						LOUIE WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FREE  LECTURES.
	Dr. Barney says she will give a number of
free lectures upon the subject of Medicine, or


the Laws of Life, and those interested in the
prevention of disease and prolongation of life,
and wish to become acquainted with some of its
laws are invited. Her first lecture will be
given in the 13th Ward Hall, October 9th, at 7
o'clock p.m., to to the Young Ladies' Mutual
Improvement Association.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

HEBER CITY.

Conference of the Relief Societies of Wasatch
Stake of Zion convened in Heber City Hall,
August 11th, 1883. Present on the stand were
President Emma Brown and her Counselors,
also the Presidents of the several societies.
Minutes of the last Conference read and ap-
proved. Reports were read by the secretaries,
showing the spirit of improvement. President
Brown made a few opening remarks; the sev-
eral presidents then represented their wards
in a very favorable condition. Sister Lucy
Young from St. George then addressed the
conference upon the principle of celestial mar-
riage, and related some of her experience in it.
Conference adjourned until two o'clock. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Bishop Foremann.
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened with the
usual exercises. Sister Young spoke to us
again in the afternoon. Spoke of the great
responsibility resting upon the fathers and
mothers in raising and training our children.
Our Father in heaven knows of our appoint-
ment, of our coming together to serve Him,
and He will be there by His Spirit to comfort
and instruct. That we should put our entire
dependence on our Father in heaven, both in
adversity and prosperity. He gives ns all we
enjoy, and we should say, "Thy will be done
in all things." Sister Young gave us very wise
and excellent counsel; urged the great necessi-
ty of going to the Temple to redeem our dead.
	President Hatch spoke a short time; was
pleased to know the Relief Societies were in a
good condition, and asked the blessing of the
Lord on all Israel. Conference adjourned for
three months. Singing. Benediction by
President Hatch.
			MARY BRONSON, Secretary.
			AVIS M. BRONSON, Ass't. Sec.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By means of these great public conve-
niences, the Utah Central and Utah Northern
Railways, we are now enabled to return from
Logan in about a half a day, leaving that
point at 12.30 p.m. and arriving in Salt Lake
City at 7.40 p.m. on the same day. What a
difference from our wagon experiences of a few
years ago, when with jaded teams and more
jaded passengers the conveyances would take
three days between the two points. And this
was pretty good traveling too. But returning
from Logan we broke our journey at Brigham
City, and through the courtesy of Apostle Lo-
renzo Snow we remained over Sunday to at-
tend the Conference of Box Elder Stake. At
the morning service the speakers were Apostle
Carrington and Lorin Farr. In the afternoon
Apostle Lorenzo Snow and Elders Charles W.
Stayner and Charles O. Card occupied the
time. The remarks on Temple building were
particularly interesting to me, owing to my
late visit to the Logan Temple. It seems so
refreshing to hear historical facts in relation
to the building of the ancient Temples; and
even an account of their destruction in fulfil-
ment of prophecy is very strengthening to our
faith. In the adversity as in the prosperity of
God's people, we can see His great providences
made manifest, and learn a lesson which, if

[Column 2]
heeded, is fruitful of future blessings, I was
delighted with the prosperous appearance of
the northern cities. Their progress in building,
commerce and the general pursuits of a truly
civilized life; although the hated liquor traffic
forced upon the Loganites by the federal
court rulings is much to be regretted.
	Their schools, among which is that great In-
stitution, the Brigham Young College, are do-
ing much in training the young of those set-
tlements. This last named institution is partic-
ularly beneficial, owing to the fact that while
the Territorial District schools are debarred
from introducing any but secular studies, the
college endowed by the late President, is de-
signed to also instruct its students in the great
principles of the Gospel revealed to the Saints.
The educational faculties of this eminent place
of learning are not limited by consideration of
a merely political and financial character, as
are those of the schools established by law. I
deem this one of the greatest advantages of
the President's gifts to Northern Utah. While
the College embodies all that can be taught in
mere promiscuous establishments, under the
excellent watch care of Elder J. Z. Stewart
and Sister Ida Cook, it also nurtures that faith
in God which needs such tender training in
the minds of our youth. Too much can
scarcely be said on this important subject, to
encourage the establishment and maintenance
of such institutions in our midst.
	After a most pleasant, and I trust not un-
profitable visit, we returned in excellent
health and spirits, bringing with us the kind-
est remembrances of friends, prominent among
which were Sisters Preston and Martineau of
Logan, and Sister Snow of Brigham City.
		Your loving sister in the Gospel,
						E. M. STAYNER.

Salt Lake City, Aug, 1883.

MESA CITY, Aug. 27th, 1883.

DEAR EDITOR:

	In your favor of the 17th you express a
wish for me to write an article. I must say
you have a better opinion of my abilities than
I have myself, or you would not make such a
request. And the thought immediately came,
what could I write that would be anyway in-
teresting to your many intelligent readers, or
worthy of a place in your excellent paper.
Then I was reminded of the passage of Scrip-
ture referring to the several talents which the
Lord has given to His children; some more
and some less, and the consequnces if they
failed to improve upon these talents, and I rea-
lized that if I failed to improve upon the one
talent which I may possess it would be taken
away and given to the one who already has
ten and improves them. And who could I
blame? Nobody but myself. We are all
children of one Great Parent, and He in His
tender mercy has placed them upon this earth,
that they might, through obedience to His laws,
secure to themselves an eternal inheritance in
in the Kingdom of our God, and He has given
to us qualities which, if properly cultivated and
improved upon, will give us a knowledge of
right and wrong. So we are really left with-
out excuse if we transgress any of the known
laws of God. But Satan, that arch enemy of
all that is good and pure is on the alert con-
tinually to tempt and place obstacles in our
way to lead us astray from the pathway so
plainly pointed out by our leaders. And
wherein is our safety from his wiles? It is only
in a faithful adherence to our duties day by
day. Attending to our prayers, for this is
indeed the key to unlock the blessings of hea-
ven to His faithful children, for the Lord is in-
deed and in truth a prayer hearing God. Who
is there among the Saints of God but have had
some experience of this kind, who when trouble
and sorrows gathered thickly around them


and they have bowed themselves before their
Heavenly Father in a humble and contrite
manner, with faith in their hearts, (for without
faith it is impossible to please God) and ask for
assistance that has failed to receive comfort
and consolation?
	What a blessing to realize that we are ac-
cepted of God, and that we have one friend,
although all others should fail us; that we can
bow the knee, too, in time of trouble and af-
fliction, and how clear and smooth our pathway
seems; the rays of light and joy that pervade
the heart is like sunshine after a storm, such
peace, and joy, and love towards all mankind,
it is realy a foretaste of heaven; and no happi-
ness which wealth or worldly honors could
give would bear comparison with it.
	I have written these few thoughts at random,
and you are welcome to use them as you see fit.
The EXPONENT is always a welcome visitor,
and no pleasure which I receive is so great as
the perusal of it. May the blessings of heaven
attend you in your labors, is the prayer of
your sister,						S. M. P.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 63﻿


TO MY LITTLE SISTERS.

	I must try and call in my wandering mind
from the cares of life, and fulfil my promise to
my little sisters. I think of them so often
and am so pleased when I see them the subjects
spoken of, and engaged in making things for
the children's fair. I think of them as rose
buds blooming into life, fair and innocent, pre-
paring themselves for future usefulness in their
Father's Kingdom, to become Zion's bulwark
of industry in connection with their little
brothers, and when I read of the many little
things they make, which occupy their young
minds, and their little fingers active to accom-
plish some object, their faces beaming with
smiles, and oh, how happy they look and feel!
I look upon such as being the first and fore-
most to do the greatest good through the jour-
ney of life, and I hear those very li ttl girls
when at home, asking ma if there is not some
thing to do. Poor tired ma, shall I not do that?
and her little daughter can do many little
things to lighten the the burdens off her shoul-
ders, and make life to her comparatively easy.
A dutiful child makes a happy mother, and
gives her a joyful heart.
	My little friends listen to your teachers and
obey their good instructions; learn to be self
sustaining by cultivating tidy and industrious
habits, which will develop in you those pow-
ers of mind which you possess. Learn to be
neat sewers; there are a great many stitches in
plain needle work worth learning; hemming,
overhand, running seams, button hole stitch,
darning and patching. All this requires neat-
ness and practice. Little girls, get a knowledge
of all these things, and more, while you are
young, and when you are married women you
can in very deed be a help-meet to your hus-
band. Do not let your mind be carried away
by foolish fashions, but possess in youmelves a
stable mind, to be modest in your attire and a
determined will of your own to do and to act,
to please the noble and good, the honest at
heart, and holy beings who are not moved up-
on by the follies and weaknesses of human life;
make choice of that which will mould you for
a useful life and a noble woman. Our acts be-
speak our character, and bend the mind to
good or evil. Industrious habits, formed in
youth, make life's path pleasant and happy.
They lead out into broad fields of active
thought, where no idle time is spent; every mo-
ment of time should be employed to do good,
to help some one, even by the little folks; ma or
pa, brothers or sisters, if they are tired and
weary let them rest, and you do their part of
the work, and the Lord will bless you for so do-


ing, and say, "She putteth forth her hand to
acts of kindness and her name shall be honored
among the just." Read the truth in good
books, and lay up in store useful knowledge;
do not read fiction, as it weakens the memory,
the time is ill spent, and nothing gained to ele-
vate the soul.
	Let prayers direct you in all things, that by
the Holy Spirit you may be able to accomplish
much good, and make many nice things for the
next fair, and a nice written letter ot thanks to
your little brothers if they make you those
things I mentioned to put in your play-houses.
					MARY ANN PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 8th.


[For the Exponent.]

INTRODUCTORY.

	In presenting the picture, REPRESENTATIVE
WOMEN OF DESERET, before the public, an
explanation may be appropriate, that the ob-
ject may be rightly understood. The picture
is intended to represent the L. D. S. Women's
Organization, rather than to draw attention to
those intellectual gifts and acquirements, which
in this connection are but secondary to the
spiritual or missionary labors of those repre-
sented.
	As in Salt Lake City is the head of these or-
ganizations, so these spiritual laborers were
selected by the precedence they hold.
	Throughout our Territory—indeed beyond
—are as many as sincere and faithful, noble
women, well deserving of every honor con-
tained therein; but there is, of necessity, a limit
in the present work, and that which would
have been a pleasure became an impossibility
at this time; but it is the purpose, in due sea-
son, to present another work which will be of
interest to our people.
	It is not the purpose of the compiler of
these sketches to furnish complete histories of
the subjects of the picture, to which this book
is merely an accompaniment to acquaint those
who may be strangers to them with an outline
of their labors and their virtues; to show, as it
were, what manner of women these "Mormons"
are. To do full justice to the originals would
require more space and ability than are mine.
But if the eyes of the stranger may be opened
to a knowledge of their purity, integrity and
faith in God, their heroic firmness and the
trials they have endured without wavering in
their allegiance to His cause, if any may be
convinced that this people are in earnest and
in the right, and that God is with them; if they
can realize that for men Mormonism is not a
cloak, a subterfuge and a selfish system, that
our women are not from the dregs of civiliza-
tion, led and controlled by stronger minds,
without a knowledge within themselves and
for themselves for their cause, it will prove a
joy and delight, a sweet return for my humble
but earnest efforts. O, that these truthful tes-
timonies, falling upon hearts that are as blocks
of ice toward us, might, like burning bullets,
melt their way therein, until, like Joseph's
brethren they would weep for injuries they have
done!
	And to the young of our people: if this
work shall cause them to appreciate their hon-
ored parents more by the nobility they have
proved, if it shall cause them to weigh the ob-
ject for which these sacrifices were endured
against the poor temptations of the present
time, if they shall question themselves—Shall
their sacrifices count for nought? shall their
example and their labors be lost on me, and
their hopes meet disapointment? If that com-
mand, "Honor thy father and thy mother,"
shall prevail and the sweet testimony of the
Holy Spirit convince and strengthen them in
the same faith and service unto their God, then
still sweeter and richer will be the reward.


That this work may go forth from my hum-
ble home as a missionary, a silent worker of
great good, is my fervent hope.
								A. J. C.


TO MY PATRONS:

	Owing to an unfavorable accident, and con-
sequent delay, the picture is not ready to de-
liver as I expected it would be before this time.
However, it will not be long now before you
receive both picture and book, which are in
progress in the hands of the publishers. I felt
that some must be growing anxious regarding
the matter, and that an explanation is due my
kind, benevolent friends.
	Yours very sincerely,
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


WITH THE ZUNI INDIANS.

	Last summer when Mr Cushing went East
with the Zunis, he married a young lady at
Washington, to whom he had long been en-
gaged, and brought her back a bride to live in
an Indian hovel.
	He as compelled to join the tribe in order
to pursue his researches, for the Zunis are a
secretive people, and their religion and tradi-
tions are as secret as Masonry. After joining
them the leading men of the tribe endeavored
to persuade him to marry one of the dusky
maidens who sit around half naked in the sun,
mold pottery and weave blankets. And he
came near losing his influence with the Indians,
and even stood in danger of his life because of
his refusal to do so. Twice were women se-
lected for him, but he risked penalty of reject-
ing them, and would have fared badly but for
the protection of the native governor, who had
adopted him into his family and given him a
bed of sheep-skins in his rude home.
	Cushing told the Indians of his engagement
to a young lady in Washington, and of his in-
tention to marry her to live with them, and al-
though their preference would have been for
him to take a wife from the tribe, their gallant-
ry overcame their prejudice, and they received
the pale faced, brown-eyed bride with a respect-
ful and cordial welcome.
	Mrs. Cushing was the daughter of the late
Mr. Magill, who was for many years connected
with the venerable banking house of Lewis
Johnson & Co., of Washington, and was one
of the belles of the capital. Her devotion to
her husband runs parallel to his devotion to
science, for there are few girls would leave a
beautiful home at Washington for a mud hut
in an Indian pueblo, even for the men they
loved.
	A man or a woman who does not love luxu-
ry fails to reach or realize the privileges and
possibilities of existence; but he or she who
cannot dispense with luxury and enjoy rough-
ing it is a worthless weakling unfit for the tasks
and the triumphs that this great world offers.
Mr. Cushing belongs to that ancient fraternity,
the badge of which is always apparent, even
under the barbaric costume of the Zuni—the
honorable order of gentleman—and in his
rude surroundings and primitive accommoda-
tions every sign he gives detects this order to
which he belongs, and of which in Washing-
ton or in Zuni he will always be an orna-
ment.
	Mrs. Cushing does not enjoy life in Zuni as
her husband does. She does not and cannot
share his fascinations for the work in which he
is engaged. She hates the dirty women and
the naked children, and despises their filthy
ways, but she has made her mud hut a pretty
little paradise, and has developed the possibili-
ties of comfort even in Zuni.
	The clay walls of her rude house are hung


with blankets woven by the Zuni and Navajo
Indians, and compare in brilliancy of color tex-
ture, and design with the far-famed Gobelin
tapestries. The ceilings of undressed trunks
of trees are covered with bright figured cretons
and Japanese silks. The mud floor is strewn
with sheep skins, tanned by the Indians, that
are softer to the slippered foot than the rugs of
Oriental magnificence and ornaments selected
with refined taste, or framed with clever hands
after the models of decorative art, are hung
here and fastened there, and strewn every-
where. The Cushing residence is a mud hut
without, but within a bower of beauty.
	She has her sister, Miss Magill, with her,
who likes the Zunis better than Mrs. Cushing,
and is talking of adopting their peculiar dress
and joining their tribe.
	"I would do it," said Miss Magill; "it is so
funny and romantic, but I don't like to cut my
hair."
	Dr. Cushing, a brother of Frank, and his
wife are there as visitors, and Mr. Metcalf, the
well known artist of Boston.—Zuni (N. M.)
Cor. Chicago Inter Ocean.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The P.A. will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall, Saturday, at 10 a.m., and
Y. L. M. I. A. at 2 p.m. at the same place.
	THE Primary Fair for the Associations of
Salt Lake Co. will open on Wednesday, the
10th inst., in President Young's schoolhouse,
just north of the Eagle Gate.
	THE Woman's Conference of this Stake will
be held Friday and Saturday, Sept. 21st and
22nd. The Relief Society meetings will con-
vene in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, com-
mencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
	Evan Stephens and his juvenile classes will
give an entertainment in the Salt Lake Theatre,
on or about the 22nd inst. It is anticipated
that the different nations will be represented
in costume and characteristic songs, similar to
those given on the 24th of July in the Taber-
nacle. The concert will be entirely for the
benefit of Mr. Stephens' classes. He deserves
to have a full house, and everyone who loves
music will get the worth of their money.
	The picture, "Representative Women of
Deseret," spoken of elsewhere, and the accom-
panying book of "Biographical Sketches," des-
igned by Mrs. A. J. Crocheron is something
original in its character. The picture repre-
sents the three distinct organizations, viz.:
Relief Society, Young Ladies Associations and
Primary Associations, not only by the portraits
of the officers, but by characteristic symbols.
Theology, Medicine, Literature, Art and Music
are also represented in the same way. The
drawing is by the lady herself, lithographed in
New York. Mrs. C. has displayed considerable
talent for drawing artistically, and the work
should certainly meet with encouragement on
that account, as well as perpetuating in the
memory the institutions and labors of the wo-
men in the Church.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Aunie E. Wilson and Isabella M. Leyburn
are the editors of the Electra, a literary maga-
zine just started in Louisville, Kentucky.
	The Association for the Advancement of
Women will hold their eleventh congress at
Chicago, October 17, 18, 19, at Hershey Hall,
Madison Street. 
	Women and Land, Mrs. Jennie C. Carr, 
Cal.; Duty of White Women of the North to
Black Women of the South, Mrs. Jennie
Marsh Parker, N. Y.; Labor and Capital, Mrs. 
Augusta Cooper, Bristol, N. Y.; The Women


of Utah, Mrs. Jeannie A. Froiseth, Utah; 
Hereditary, Rev. Antoinette Brown Blackwell,
N. J.; Benefits of Suffrage for Women, Mrs. 
Julia Ward Howe, R. I.; Historic Art, Mrs.
Mary E. Bagg, N. Y.; Mourning Garb, Julia
Holmes Smith, M. D., Ill.; Scientific Charity,
Mrs. Charles R. Lowell, N. Y.; Work of So-
ciety for Prevention of Cruelty to Children,
Mrs. H. L. T. Wolcott, Mass.; Work of the
Red Cross, Miss Clara Barton, Mass.; The In-
fringement of Personal Liberty by License,
Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, Mass.
	Entertainment for officers and speakers dur-
ing the congress will be provided, upon appli-
cation to Julia Holmes Smith, M. D., No. 390
LaSalle Street Chicago. All applications
should be made if possible before Sept. 15. 
	The post-office address for letters to members
of A. A. W. during the congress is Channing.
Club-room, 135 Wabash Avenue.
	The Chicago Women's Club will give a re-
ception to the congress at the Palmer House,
Wednesday, Oct. 17, at 9:30 p.m.
		JULIA WARD HOWE, President.
		KATE GANNETT WELLS, Secretary.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25 in morocco, -		1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON.
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

SCHOOL IN MIDWIFERY.

DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT

COMMENCES a new class in her office over Godbe &
Pitts' Drug Store October 8th, at 1 o'clock p.m.
This school was established in 1878. The Term of five
months, three lectures per week, is a practical course
for those who desire to enter at once into this work. It
is advised that those whose circumstances will admit,
attend a second course, for the subject is so comprehen-
sive that a repetition of the lectures is very advan-
tageous, especially to those of limited education.
	Other branches of medicine are taught only as they
bear especially upon this subject. More than that in so
limited a course would be too superficial. Manikin,
charts and instruments are used in teaching.
Tuition................................$30.00
Books..................................$13.00
	N.B.—Orders for books must be sent in early so as to
get them from the east in time.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALLPAPER,
CARPETS,FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALE LAKE CITY.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
