VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1883.	NO. 7.


LINES ON LEAVING ENGLAND.

Farewell old England! Thou hast been to me—
	Albeit a stranger to thine ancient strand—
A friend to whom, while longing to be free,
	I yet shall grieve to give the parting hand.
'Tis not that thou art fair, for fair thou art,
	Far more than fame—than fancy's tongue hath told,
'Tis not thy royal court, thy rushing mart;
	Thy verdant meadows, fields and forests old;
Nor ruins grey from time's unfailing flight;
	Nor palaces, nor temples manifold,
Nor all that woo's and wins the wondering sight,
	Where art and nature rivalling unfold.

Ah! no; all these I willingly forsake,
	For scenes to me far lovelier and more dear,
From which to part did erst this bosom shake,
	While from these eyes fell many a tender tear.
But 'tis that here I leave, perchance for e'er,
	Hearts loyal, warm and loving, but for whom
My ling'ring stay amidst, which doth appear
	As brief and bright as Spring's ephemeral bloom,
Would seem an exile desolate and drear.

Talk not to me, proud world, of worthier deeds
	Emblazoned on the scroll of earthly fame,
Where charity, self-trumpeted, may read
	On flattery's page each gift and giver's name;
Talk not of friendship, tenderness and truth,
	Till thou hast seen how bright that love doth burn,
Which sows the seed of unrespecting ruth,
	Nor hopes a golden harvest in return.

Can I forget, when friendless and alone—
	Outcast for sake of Him who lived and died
That man might live and never die—the tone,
	The kindly clasp, the cordial smile, that vied
With each the other, friendship's truth to tell?
	Or memory's air lose redolence of deeds—
Fair fruit of faith undying—deeds that fell
	Like sunbeams on the soul, or goodly seeds
On fertile soil, all fruitful of their kind,
	To bloom and blossom on through endless years?
No, no—rather shall all-remembering Mind
	Forget itself, ere mine itself forswears.

But see!—the sails are spread, the favoring breeze—
	Whereof our gallant bark hath little need—
Blows oceanward, and o'er the rolling seas
	By winged steam impelled we swiftly speed.
Friends, brothers, sisters dear! a last farewell!—
	Not long I trust, though long it still must be,
Howe'er so brief, till mutual bosoms swell
	With blest reunion's fond felicity.
Adieu! adieu! How sad the parting sound,
	Let sighing winds and sobbing waves now tell;
Onward speed onward, bark for Zion bound!
	Old England, bonds and Babylon!—farewell!
									O. F. WHITNEY.

June, 1883.


[Column 1]

RELIGION AND SCIENCE.

	The more we reflect on the uniformity of
these two subjects the more we will be sur-
prised that some people should think there
was so vast a gulf between them.
	Probably this opinion is partly due to the
teachings of some of the Christian Churches;
that God made this world out of nothing; this
they know is at variance with natural law,
and probably judging the remainder of the
Christian religion by that and a belief in a
God without body, parts or passions, they see
the absurdity and lapse into infidelity. The
Latter-day Saints could not do this! With
a correct idea of the Supreme Being,
and a knowledge of His laws, religion and
science cease to differ. Religion is only a term
applied to those laws and commandments, bap-

[Column 2]

tism, confirmation, etc., that immediately con-
cern our salvation; while the term science is
applied to the works of the same being, but to
understand which is not cousidered essential
to salvation.
	God has upon several occasions spoken to
men about his works. To Job He said, "Where
wast thou when I laid the foundation of the
earth? declare if thou hast understanding.
Who hast laid the measures thereof, if thou
knowest? or who hast stretched the line upon
it? Whereupon are the foundations thereof
fastened? or who laid the corner stones there-
of?"
	He gave Abraham the Urim and Thummim,
and among other things told him that the star
nearest to his throne was called Kolob, and
governed all those that belong to the same or-
der as this earth, and that one revolution was a
day unto the Lord, it being one thousand of
our years.
	"Then I, Abraham, talked with the Lord
face to face as one man talketh to another, and
He told me of the works which his hands had
made."
	He also instructed Moses, and Moses "cast
his eyes and beheld the earth, even all the face
of it, there was not a particle of which he did
not behold, descrying it by the Spirit of God.
And he beheld also the inhabitants thereof,
and there was not a soul which he beheld not,
and he discerned them by the Spirit of God;
and their numbers were great, even number-
less as the sands upon the sea shore. And he
beheld many lands; and each land was called
earth, and there were inhabitants on the face
thereof."
	God also told him that he had created worlds
without number and that "the heavens they
are many, and they cannot be numbered unto
man, but they are numbered unto me, for they
are mine, and as one earth shall pass away,
and the heavens thereof, even so shall another
come; and there is no end to my works."
	The New Testament informs us that Paul
was caught up into the third heaven. Joseph
Smith was also shown many great things, and
much was revealed unto him. From different
writings we learn that God has communicated
and shown a great deal to man, and that al-
though it is revelation it is not all of a strict-
ly religious nature, and is not essential to eter-
nal salvation as we generally accept the term.
It is certainly an easy way of gaining knowl-
edge, everything shown is perfectly under-
stood, there is no conjecture or uncertainty
about it.
	From the foregoing and our surroundings
we see that science and religion do not con-
flict, that God is the Author of both, and that
it makes no difference whether a given fact is
discovered by innate intelligence or communi-
cated by revelation, it is the same unalterable
truth, and came from the same source, for if
God had not given the intelligence man could
not have found it out.	ANN FELLOWS.


RIDICULE.

	Ridicule is a weapon that is often used with
success, when everything else fails, in defeating
the plans and purposes of people whose views
are different from those of the majority. Many
who are brave in other respects, and really
have a desire to do right, will give way and


go as others go, do as others do, often against
their own feelings and judgment, simply be-
cause they cannot stand to be ridiculed and
laughed at.
	They will stand persuasion, or even threats,
firmly; but let their friends, especially those
most loved, laugh and sneer at them, and they
will give way directly, as it produces a feeling
that nothing else does, and in persons who are
very sensitive it causes them a great deal of
suffering.
	It has always been the case, and I suppose
always will be as long as we are in this mortal
state, that some people are disposed to sneer
and make all manner of sarcastic remarks to
or about those, who, as they term it, are "too
religious," or are trying to do right. I would
ask, what is true religion? It is simply doing
right. But you say there are different ideas
of right and wrong; what you think is right
another may think wrong. True religion
teaches us to treat others as we would like to
be treated. To be upright and honest in all
that we say and do. Act on the square in all
things. Treat every one with respect. Good,
moral people who value a good character, but
do not claim any religion observe these princi-
ples, then how much more should we who have
had the privilege of being born and raised in
the Church of Christ, born heirs to the bles-
sings of the everlasting covenant, observe
these laws. We do not appreciate the privi-
leges we have. We do not possess the Spirit
of God when we do not try to live these princi-
ples, and scoff at those who do try. It is very
mean of a person to make no effort himself to
perform any duty, but will sneer at those who
do. Girls, let us try to perform our duties.
Be brave and strong in the cause of right;
have backbone enough to face all that is said
against us, or our religion. Strive to under-
stand its principles; the more you learn of it
the better it is. It is worth everything to us.
							MATTIE.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The highest form of Christian life is self-de-
nial, for the good of others.—Dr. E. A Park.
	Love's sweetest meanings are unspoken; the
full heart knows no rhetoric of words.—Boree.
	The years write their record on human
hearts, as they do on trees, in hidden, inner
circles of growth which no eye can see.—Saxe
Holm.
	True friendship, grounded on the covenant
of the Lord, possesses inconceivable force. It
is stronger than death, and able to silence the
voice of emulation, ambition, self-love, and
even relative affection.—T. Scott.
	A politician thinks of the next election; a
statesman of the next generation; a politician
looks for the success of his party; a statesman
for that of his country. The statesman wishes
to steer, while the politician is satisfied to
drift.—James Freeman Clarke.
	Without earnestness no man is ever great, or
does really great things. He may be the
cleverest of men; he may be brilliant, enter-
taining, popular; but he will want weight. No
soul-moving picture was ever painted that had
not in its depth a shadow.—Peter Bayne.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"Monday, 29th. Several men presented
themselves at the dwelling of President George
Miller this morning, some came into the house
and enquired for him while others remained
outside. It was suspected that they were after
him with a writ, and although President Miller
was present and before them all the time, no
one knew him; neither did any of the breth-
ren, several of whom were present, seem to
know where he was, and the suspicious indi-
viduals soon left. At two o'clock word was
brought that a company of soldiers were in
from Carthage. They proved to be four dra-
goons. They came up the hill; went around by
the east end and north side of the Temple, out
of the north gate and drew up in front of
President George Miller's."
	An alarm was raised that the troops were
endeavoring to get into the Temple, and Presi-
dent Young ordered the lights taken out of the
stair case, but they said they were searching
for hogs, said to have been stolen from Mr.
Hibbard.	*	*	After prayer
was over	*	*	President Young and
Elder Kimball went into the tower,	*	*
spent half an hour and returned—spent near-
ly an hour reading Captain Freemont's narra-
tive, then retired for the night."
	"Tuesday, 30th. Almon W. Babbit came
in at half past eleven and reported that the
marshal had left Carthage for Springfield, and
there would be no more danger from writs.
P. P. Pratt has been engaged part of the time
in forming a schedule for a pioneer company
of 1000 men to precede the body of emigrants,
to find a proper location, and to put in seed
early in the summer.	*	*	*
	"The labors of the day having been brought
to a close at so early an hour (half past eight)
it was thought proper to have a little season of
recreation; accordingly, Brother Hans Hanson
was invited to produce hisviolin. He did so, and
played several lively airs; several excellent
songs were sung, in which several of the breth-
ren and sisters joined. The "Upper California"
was sung by Erastus Snow; after which Sister
Whitney, being invited by President Young,
stood up, and invoking the gift of tongues,
sang one of the most beautiful songs in
tongues that was ever heard. The interpreta-
tion was given by her husband, Bishop Whit-
ney. It related to our efforts to build this
house, and to the privilege we now have of
meeting together in it—of our departure
shortly to the country of the Lamanites, and
their rejoicing when they hear the Gospel, and
of the ingathering of Israel. Altogether it
was one of the most touching and beautiful ex-
hibitions of the power of the spirit in the gift
of tongues, which was ever witnessed, (so it
appeared to the writer of this, William Clay-
ton). After a little conversation of a general
nature the exercises of the evening were closed
by prayer by President B. Young."	*	*
	December 31st, he wrote, "President Young
and Elder Kimball are superintending in the
operations of the day—examining maps with
reference to selecting a location for the Saints
west of the Rocky Mountains, and reading the
various works which have been written and
published by travelers in those regions."	*	*
At six o'clock the High council, the High
Priests and the Seventies met together for
prayer, each quorum by itself, and all dressed
in the	*	*	holy order of the
priesthood. Thus ended the year 1845, in the
Temple of our God."
	January 1st, 1846. Thursday. "This day
is the first of another year—the morning is
rainy, the ground very soft, and the mud very
deep. A heavy mist rests on the low ground

[Column 2]

under the bluffs; the sunlight is very dim be-
ing nearly shut out by the dark, heavy clouds,
which overspread the whole face of the sky,
and everything around wears a gloomy and
dismal aspect—but notwithstanding the un-
favorable appearance of things the brethren
and sisters are assembling together in the
house of the Lord to receive their endowments."
Thus wrote William Clayton; he also says—
"The plasterers have commenced this morning
to plaster the arched ceiling of the lower hall
of the Temple; the floor is laid, the frame work
of the pulpits and surrounding seats for the
choir and band are put up, and the work of
fitting the room for dedication and holding
meetings therein progresses very fast."
	New Year's evening I, with quite a number
of young friends, had the privilege of receiv-
ing the holy ordinances; and William Clayton
wrote the following:
	"After a little time had elapsed the whole
company were assembled together in the east
room; in number about fifty, and all knelt
down upon the carpet and united with H. C.
Kimball in thanksgiving to God for His great
mercy and goodness to us in granting us this
opportunity of meeting together in the house
of the Lord, and in prayer to Him that He
would continue to bless us, that He would bless
President Brigham Young with health and
wisdom, that he might be able to lead and di-
rect this people, and that the same blessings
might be extended to all his brethren of the
Twelve, and on the Saints, and that God
would bless our wives and give unto them
strength of body, that they might live and ad-
minister to the servants of God, that they
might see three score years and ten, and behold
the Kingdom of God established in the earth,
and that we might be enabled to continue in
Nauvoo in peace until all the faithful Saints
had received their endowments, and that when
the time to leave here should arrive that we
might have those things that we need to enable
us to go away in comfort—that to this end our
possessions might look good to those who are
round about us, that they may buy them and
pay us gold and silver and snch things as we
may need; also that God would bless our chil-
dren and all things that pertain to us, and dedi-
cating the whole company to God, gave Him
the glory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Amen."
	Wm. G. Young and Adelia C. Clark were
then married by President Brigham Young;
his nephew, Brigham H. Young, and Sidenia O.
Clark officiated as groomsman and bridesmaid.
After asking them repeatedly if it was the un-
derstanding that they were to be married for
time and for eternity, and receiving an answer
in the affirmative, he then asked Hazen Kim-
ball and his wife (the latter being a sister of
the bride) if the bride's parents understood
their intentions and approved of them; and re-
ceived satisfactory answers. After the cere-
mony was over he pronounced various bless-
ings upon them. The clerk wrote the follow-
ing: "Two or three songs were sung, and Presi-
dent Young invited the company to supper,
which had been prepared. Bishop Whitney
and wife led the way, and were followed by
about half the company; the table not being
extensive enough to accomodate more. Presi-
dent Young said we could worship God in the
dance as well as in other ways, but strongly
impressed upon the minds of those present the
impropriety of mingling again with the wicked
after having come in here, and taken upon
them the covenants which they had. He spoke
pointedly to his daughter Vilate, and told her
that if she should do so after this she might
expect to meet the frown of a father.	*	*
He was followed by L. R. Foster, who concur-
red in the remarks of President Young, and
said he would like to have the question put,
that it might be known how many of those

[Column 3]

present were willing to make a covenant, etc.
Elder H. C. Kimball said, before the question
was put he wished to say a few words—He felt
thankful that President Young had touched
this subject, and also that we had this oppor-
tunity of meeting together in this manner;
said that those who were parents had become
responsible for the conduct of their children,
and for his part he should not be willing that
his children should meet with the wicked.	*
He said to his own children, that they had
covenanted here this evening that they would
receive the instructions, and listen to the coun-
sel of their father and mother, and he hoped
they would rememeber it.	*	*	*
Erastus Snow expressed his feelings in a few
words.	*	*	The President
then invited all those who were willing to cov-
enant that they would keep themselves from
mingling with the wicked to rise upon their
feet; whereupon all rose up.	*	*	*
Hans C. Hanson, a Dane, inquired if it would
be permitted for him to speak a few words,
and receiving an approving nod from the Presi-
dent, said he had been in the habit of playing
the fiddle for mixed companies among the
wicked, and that in such companies he had
seen very ungodly conduct, that on a certain
occasion he played for some who were called
Saints, but they went down to a steam boat and
got about twenty-five passengers to join them;
and, said he, they wanted to get away all
our girls—and there was very bad talk there;
when he saw the Saints enjoying themselves in
the dance as they did here, he made a coven-
ant with himself, that he would no more play
the fiddle for the wicked, but that the Saints
should have the use of his fiddle, and, that
when he went on a mission, he would leave it
with the Saints, and asked them if they would
take care of it. They answered, "Yes."
	The Spirit of God was present, and the spirit
of meekness, humility, and gratitude to God
for the great privileges we enjoy, so that tears
came into the eyes of many of those present.
Love and union, peace and harmony, pervaded.
The utmost decorum was observed; not a loud
laugh nor a rude jest saluted the ear.	*	*
	The persons present on this occasion were as
follows: President Yonng, his wife, and
daughter Vilate, and sons, Joseph and Brig-
ham, two little girls and infant; Elder H. C.
Kimball and his wife Vilate, his son William
H., with wife, and his daughter, Helen Mar
Kimball; John Young and Lorenzo Young
and his wife, Persis, their son William G., the
bridegroom, Phineas H. Young and his son
Brigham H. Young, N. K. Whitney and wife,
Horace H. and Orson K. Whitney, John Whit-
ney, Amasa Lyman and his wife, Eliza M. Par-
tridge, Caroline E. Partridge, Lucy A. Seely,
Clarissa C. Decker, Joseph C. Kingsbury,
Sarah Ann Kingsbury, Helen Jeanette Murry,
Mary Houston, Sidenia O. Clark, Adelia C.
Clark, Hazen Kimball and wife, Lorenzo Snow,
Eliza R. Snow and Mary Smith."
	When the President told us at about half
past two oclock that it was time to seek repose,
the sisters retired to the side rooms, and the
brethren stretching themselves upon the floor
or on the sofas—all were soon in the embraces of
"tired nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep,"
with the exception of the bridegroom and bride,
and a few of their friends, who, being unable
to close their eyes in sleep from the abundance
of their joy, passed the short hours of the
morning in agreeable conversation in the
office.
	To be Continued.


Unction is the tongue of fire, and is just the
very gift which no universities, no degrees, no
amount of learning or critical attainment, no
cultivation of the science of belles-lettres or rhe-
toric or elocution can bestow.—E. Paxton Hood.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THANKSGIVING.

My God, to thee a grateful heart I raise,
Oh listen to my prayer of thanks and praise,
For all thy mercies and thy love to me,
Thy boundless love, so wide, so deep, so free.

I thank thee for this life, e'en with its care,
And for the power another's grief to share,
To cheer the weary, help the fainting stand,
Who find so much of earth a desert land.

I thank thee for the blessed gift of sight
To gaze upon thy works so grand and bright,
And on man's works, who fain would rival Thee-
And may he not, since he a God may be?

I thank thee, too, for all the senses five,
Bereft of any were but part alive;
To revel in the harmony of blissful sound,
Oh joy unspeakable therein is found.

More keenly prized by those who for a time,
Though brief it be, have lost this gift divine
And feared with anguish far too deep to tell
A silent world, wherein they have to dwell.

And for the blessing great to interchange
Thoughts and ideas boundless in their range,
All, all our faculties, more precious far
Than golden store, or fame's bright glittering star.

And, too, I thank thee for that other one
We may call sense, which Saints alone have won.
That touches with a magic wand the other five,
Making them all more intensely alive.

For friends and kindred and the Gospel light,
Whose beams can penetrate the darkest night;
For this dear mountain home and sparkling rill,
The peace and plenty which these valleys fill.

For watchmen who on Zion's towers stand
To guard the flock from wolves that prowl the land,
And once again for life, its joy and care,
And low on bended knee for the sweet hour of prayer.

And for thy spirit to the suppliant given,
The ray of light that guides us back to heaven;
Thy wandering children, travel-stained and sore,
Oh. meet them there when this brief life is o'er.—HOPE.


[Column 1]

﻿AUTO-BIOGRAPHY.

	I am the daughter of Oliver Granger, and
Lydia Dibble Granger, was born Dec. 29, 1818,
in the town of Phelps, Ontario Co., New York.
Of my father and mother's eight children only
myself and two younger brothers, (Lafayette
and Farley) remain. My father, Oliver Gran-
ger, had an interesting experience in connection
with the coming forth of the Book of Mormon.
He obtained the book a few months after its pub-
lication, and while in the city of New York at
Prof. Mott's eye infirmary, he had a "heavenly
vision." My father was told by a personage who
said his name was Moroni that the Book of Mor-
mon, about which his mind was exercised, was
a true record of great worth, and Moroni in-
structed him (my father) to testify of its truth
and that he should hereafter be ordained to
preach the everlasting Gospel to the children of
men. Moroni instructed my father to kneel and
pray; Moroni and another personage knelt with
him by the bedside. Moroni repeated words
and instructed my father to repeat after him.
Moroni then stepped behind my father, who
was still kneeling, and drew his finger over the
three back seams of my father's coat (which
my father felt very preceptiably) and said, "A
time will come when the Saints will wear gar-
ments made without seam."
	Moroni told him (my father) that he might
ask for what he most desired and it would be
granted. He asked for an evidence by which
he might know when he was approved of God.
The evidence, or sign, was given and remained
with him until his dying hour, being more
particularly manifest when engaged in prayer
and meditation. I love the memory of my father.
He died in Kirtland, Ohio, August, 1843, aged 47.
	I was married in Kirtland, Geauga Co.,
Ohio, by Warren Cowdery Esq., September
22nd, 1840, to Hiram Kimball, eldest son of
Phineas and Abigail Kimball, of West Fairley,
Orange Co., Vermont. My parents had pre-

[Column 2]

viously spent a year in Nauvoo, Hancock Co.,
Illinois; their present stay in Ohio was consid-
ered only temporary (my father sickened and
died there the next year). I returned with
my husband to his home in Nauvoo, Ill.,
three weeks after my marriage. We boarded
six months in the family of Dr. Frederic Wil-
liams, then went to housekeeping. My eldest
son was born in Nauvoo, Hancock Co., Ill.,
November 22nd, 1841; when the babe was
three days old a little incident occurred which
I will mention. The walls of the Nauvoo Temple
were about three feet above the foundation. The
Church was in need of help to assist in raising
the Temple walls. I belonged to the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; my husband
did not belong to the Church at that time. I
wished to help on the Temple, but did not like
to ask my husband (who owned considerable
property) to help for my sake.
	My husband came to my bedside, and as he
was admiring our three days old darling I
said, "What is the boy worth?" He replied, "O
I don't know, he is worth a great deal." I said,
"Is he worth a thousand dollars?" The reply
was "Yes, more than that if he lives and does
well." I said, "Half of him is mine, is it not?"
"Yes, I suppose so." "Then I have something
to help on the Temple." (pleasantly) "You
have?" "Yes, and I think of turning my share
right in as tithing." "Well, I'll think about that."
	Soon after the above conversation Mr. Kim-
ball met the Prophet of Joseph Smith, President
of the Church, and said, "Sarah has got a
little the advantage of me this time, she pro-
poses to turn out the boy as church property."
President Smith seemed pleased with the joke,
and said, "I accept all such donations, and
from this day the boy shall stand recorded,
church property," then turning to Willard
Richards, his secretary, he said, "Make a rec-
ord of this; and you are my witness." Joseph
Smith then said, "Major, (Mr. Kimball was
major in the Nauvoo Legion) you now have
the privilege of paying $500 and retaining
possession, or receiving $500 and giving pos-
session." Mr. Kimball asked if city property
was good currency. President Smith replied
that it was. Then said Mr. Kimball, "How
will the reserve block north of the Temple
suit?" President Smith replied, "It is just what
we want." The deed was soon made out and
transfered in due form.
	President Smith said to me, "You have con-
secrated your first born son, for this you are
blessed of the Lord. I bless you in the name
of the Lord God of Abraham of Isaac and
of Jacob. And I seal upon you all the bless-
ings that pertain to the faithful. Your name
shall be handed down in honorable remem-
brance from generation to generation.
	"Your son shall live and be a blessing to
you in time and an honor and glory to you
throughout the endless eternities (changes) to
come. He shall be girded about with right-
eousness and bear the helmet and the breast-
plate of war. You shall be a blessing to your
companion and the honored mother of a noble
posterity. You shall stand as a savior to your
father's house, and receive an everlasting sal-
vation, which I seal upon you by the gift of
revelation and by virtue and authority of the
Holy Priesthood vested in me, in the name of
Jesus Christ."
	Early in the year 1842 Joseph Smith taught
me the principle of marriage for eternity, and
the doctrine of plural marriage. He said that in
teaching this he realized that he jeopardized
his life; but God had revealed it to him many
years before as a privilege with blessing, now
God had revealed it again and instructed him
to teach it with commandment, as the church
could travel (progress) no farther without the
introduction of this principle. I asked him to
teach it to some one else. He looked at me
reprovingly, and said, "Will you tell me who

[Column 3]

to teach it to? God requires me to teach it to
you, and leave you with the reponsibility of
believing or disbelieving. He said, "I will not
cease to pray for you, and if you will seek un-
to God in prayer you will not be led into
temptation."
	In the summer of 1843, a maiden lady (Miss
Cooke) was seamstress for me and the subject
of combining our efforts for assisting the Tem-
ple hands came up in conversation. She de-
sired to be helpful, but had no means to fur-
nish. I told her I would furnish material if
she would make some shirts for the workmen.
It was then snggested that some of our neigh-
bors might wish to combine means and efforts
with ours, and we decided to invite a few to
come and consult with us on the subject of
forming a Ladies' Society. The neighboring
sisters met in my parlor and decided to organ-
ize. I was delegated to call on Sister Eliza R.
Snow and ask her to write for us a Constitution
and By-laws, and submit them to President
Joseph Smith prior to our next Thursday's
meeting. She cheerfully responded and when
she read them to him he replied that the Con-
stitution and By-laws were the best he had
ever seen. "But," he said, "this is not what
you want. Tell the sisters their offering is ac-
cepted of the Lord, and he has something
better for them than a written Constitution.
I invite them all to meet with me and a few of
the brethren in the Masonic Hall over my
store next Thursday afternoon, and I will or-
ganize the women under the priesthood after
the pattern of the priesthood." He further
said, "The Church was never perfectly organ-
ized until the women were thus organized."
He wished to have Sister Emma Smith elected
to preside in fulfillment of the revelation which
called her an Elect Lady.
	In the wanderings and persecutions of the
Church I have participated, and in the blessings,
endowments, and holy anointings and precious
promises that I have received. To sorrow I
have not been a stranger; but I only write this
short sketch to instruct and happify, so I will
skip to Salt Lake City, September, 1851, with
my two sons, Hiram and Oliver, my widowed
mother, Lydia Dibble Granger, Anna Rob-
bins, a girl that lived with me nine years
and married my youngest brother, and my
two brothers, Lafayette and Farley B. Gran-
ger. My husband was detained in New York
City, aud had become financially much embar-
rassed. The next year he came to me finan-
cially ruined and broken in health.
	I engaged in school teaching in the 14th
Ward to sustain and educate my family. My
salary was only $25.00 per month, but that
was much to us at that time.
	April 1st, 1854, my youngest son was born.
I discontinued school three months, then opened
school in my home. I taught eight years.
	I should have remarked that on arriving
here I sold our fit out (team, etc.) for a com-
fortable little home; this I have always con-
sidered providential. The Indian agent gave
me a nine years old wild Indian girl, whom I
educated and raised. She died at nineteen.
I named her Kate.
	My mother, who had lived with me 20
years, died in 1861, aged 73.
	My husband was drowned March 1st, 1863,
in the Pacific Ocean by the wreck of the steamer
Ida Hancock, off the coast of San Pedro, on
his way to the Sandwich Islands; aged 62.
	I was elected President of the 17th Ward
Relief Society, February 7th, 1857.
	In December, 1865, a little girl was brought
to me whom I adopted.
	November 13, 1868, a silver trowel and mallet
were furnished me and, assisted by a master
mason and surrounded by an assemblage of peo-
ple, I had the honor of laying the corner stone
of the first Relief Society uilding erected in this
dispensation.	SARAH M. KIMBALL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, . . Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1883.


[Column 1]
A CHANGE INDEED.

	What a change has come to this once quiet,
peaceful and orderly city. The citizens were
free and safe to walk the streets by day or by
night without fear or molestation or even an-
noyance. There were no saloons, no gambling
dens, no houses of infamy. All these have
come through the influences of the new civila-
tion, some of those who are so anxious to solve
the "Mormon Problem" have introduced into
our midst. They have succeeded in throwing
temptation to sin aud evil allurements in the
path of the unwary, and making slippery places
that they might fall. The Scripture says, "Woe
to the workers of iniquity," and woe to him
that rejoices in iniquity! Therefore let them
take heed that exalt in the downfall of any,
and more especially those that have said, "Let
us look upon Zion that she may be defiled." If
they have not actually used this quotation from
Holy Writ their words have been so similar
that it could not be mistaken for the fulfilment
of the prophecy of the ancient prophet of God,
who, looking down the long period of time to
the present, foresaw what would actually trans-
pire in the last days.
	A wicked and soul destroying influence has
taken firm hold of some of the individuals that
make up the population of our beautiful city,
and the power of evil has developed in a discord-
ant element, and so far transgressed the laws of
society and humanity as to stoop to a species of
barbarianism, as evinced in the terrible death of
Bishop Burt, and the summary vengence
wreaked upon the poor, miserable, cowardly as-
sassin. It is enough to make those who knew
this city as it once was in its quiet beauty and
peacefulness exclaim, "How has all this change
been wrought, and what does it portend?" We
who came here for the purpose of worshiping
God according to the dictates of our own con-
sciences, and fully anticipated the establishment
of a glorious Zion, can scaacely help a sort of
righteous indignation of things as they exist at
the present time. The Saints, were they per-
mitted to bear undisputed rule, would have
order in their ranks. There would not be the
slightest indication of this spirit of turbulence
and insubordination were "the people" the orig-
inal landowners to have complete control. As
the matter stands they are for the time being
compelled to submit to the confusion conse-
quent upon the disregard of law and authority,
because forsooth, "The powers that be" have
for the time being obtained such headway that
an exceedingly wise and straight forward course
must be pursued to overcome the reckless dar-
ing of unprincipled persons, who have no re-
gard for law, order, nor restraint of unholy and
wicked impulses.
	Such indeed are dangerous elements in a com-

[Column 2]
munity, whether they are men or women. The
time was when one could walk the street at any
hour of the night alone, without the least pro-
tection, save a conscience void of offence, and
would be as safe as in the shelter of home.
People seldom thought of locks or bolts upon
their doors, and could enjoy the free air af hea-
ven without so much of the fumes of tobacco or
whiskey. The name of God was not profaned
upon the streets, and no little boys or loafers
loitered around the street corners, making the
atmosphere vile with their foul language and
smoke.
	How beautiful, how serene and restful was
this city of the Saints, but now, O, how
changed!
	Why should there be such resistance to au-
thority? Simply because the local offices are in
the hands of the original people, "the
old settlers." A few men and women
have come into our midst and set up a cry
against the power of the "Mormon" Church,
that under the rule of "Mormons" men are not
free and independent beings; as though the civil
and municipal authorities were not just as faith-
ful administrators of the laws of the Territory
and city, and under the jurisdiction of the courts,
as if they were not members of that religious
body. This spirit of defiance has sprung up
and been nourished by a class of men anxious
to assume control of the affairs of the Territory,
its counties and cities, and even the consciences
of a people who made the country habitable for
them. They intend to get possession of every
place and position that affords any revenue, and
rule with a rod of iron. Talk of freedom, what
freedom would they give to the bone and sinew
of the country, the farmers, the mechanic; how
do they boast in public and in private. Talk of
protection, such protection as the wolf gives the
lamb. Have we eyes to see, ears to hear, hearts
to understand? then we know just what to ex-
pect from those boasters about freedom and in-
dependence and individuality.
	Take away from Salt Lake City the saloons
and such resorts as a certain class of people
claim to be an actual necessity, and they could
not live here, unless indeed they had enough
wealth to have a wine cellar of their own like
the old knights and barons of feudal times. Then
we might look for the peace and quietude once
enjoyed here by those who had come far and en-
dured so much privation for the sake of a resting
place even in the wilderness.
	Perhaps the dreadful occurrences of last week
may be a lesson to those who encourage a bru-
tal element instead of obedience to law. Gov-
ernments must exist, and the people must sub-
mit to be governed. Everybody is free to do
right under the law of the land, and if they do
wrong they must abide by the consequences of
that wrong, especially if it is an infringement
upon others. Generally those who make so
much ado a[-]out freedom are the class who tread
on the ri[---] of others, who want no law but
their owu lawlessness, and who have no regard
for law, human or divine. It is sincerely to be
hoped that the authorities of this city will in-
crease the police force, and that some of the nui-
sances upon our streets may soon be abated.
Who are these loafers who congregate upon the
corners of the streets and around the entrances
of the saloons? Idle, depraved and vile? Are
they members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints? No, indeed, if they ever
were they have lost the faith. No man living
in the line of his duty would be seen in such a
place. The principles of this Church teach so-
berness, industry, diligence in good works, de-
corum and all that will elevate and purify the
life and character of men and women. The out-
side element in this community know this is

[Column 3]
true, but it does not suit their purpose to say so.
They represent this people as opposed to good
government, and especially to the control of the
Federal officers of the United States. Nothing
could be more unjust. This people have sub-
mitted to indignities heaped upon them on ac-
count of misrepresentations of this nature, hop-
ing and looking forward for a time when the
results of their integrity would be apparent,
when, after long waiting, the truth would at
last dawn upon the officers of this great Re-
public that "Mormons" were good citizens; law-
abiding, and ready to sustain and maintain the
principles incuicated in the Constitution and
Declaration of Independence.
	The few men and women who are so active-
ly engaged in misrepresenting the "Mormon"
people to the government, and by the means
of the pulpit and the press, will not succeed in
their base and wicked schemes, however shrewd
and far-seeing they may be. Mormonism or its
principles and people will outlive all such ene-
mies, and triumph over them. It is not an in-
vention of man, but the work of God begun on
the earth. "Mormon" men and women are not
working for individual advancement and ag-
grandizement, they are working in a higher
cause and for a more laudable interest than
actuates those who are living only for this
world and its vain ambitions.
	Those who think that Mormonism can be
overthrown by introducing the allurements,
vanities and temptations of the world will find
themselves terribly mistaken. A few may be
influenced who are weak minded, but no one
sound in principle, and living in the light of
the Gospel will be thus led astray. But woe be
to those who seek to bring disgrace and evil up-
on the Saints.
	To those who spread snares for the weak and
unsuspecting, and seek to decoy from the paths
of virtue and rectitude the young and the igno-
rant, no blessing can follow such a course. The
spirit of peace is that which should be sought,
and not to stir up strife and discord, either in
public or private. It is better to suffer wrong
than to do wrong; and how essential it is to con-
trol the temper and the tongue; and more than
this even to control the appetite. How much
misery and suffering is produced by the use of
alcohol. No tongue can tell the tale. It is im-
possible. And to think that this once fair and
happy city should be cursed with dram shops
and places of imfamy seems almost incredible
to one acquainted with the place from the be-
ginning, and with the record of the people and
the contempt in which they hold all such vile
and wicked practices. One cannot wonder that
the noble women of the Temperance Union on
their bended knees and with tears streaming
from their eyes entreated the saloon keepers to
close their doors that their husbands, brothers
and sons might be saved from the demon strong
drink. And may the time hasten on when
popular opinion may be so much against these
nefarious practices, these houses that lead down
to perdition, that the cities and towns of our
glorious land may be freed from the pollution
that springs from these prolific sources of evil,
that are at the present time devastating human
life and happiness more rapidly than anything
else. And here in Zion whose gates should be
closed against all impure and unholy influences,
the Saints should set their faces as flint against
all tendencies to the growth of evil, that she
might indeed be desirable and fair to look upon,
and the wonder and admiration of the world.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE had quite an interesting interview with
Mrs. Ada H. Kepley, attorney at law and


notary public, from Effingham, Ill. She was
on her way to San Francisco with her husband,
Sir, H. S. Kepley. The lady is one who has done a
vast amount of political work in a womanly
way, and is still activly engaged in seeking to
better the condition of women under the law in
her own state as well as elsewhere, and has
good hopes of equality before the law for men
and women in the near future. She is very no-
ble in appearance and fluent in speech, is cer-
tainly a woman of strong character, and well
calculated to to advance in the profession she
has chosen. She was quite free from prejudice,
and seemed to comprehend the situation into
which the Edmund's law has thrown this
people better than most strangers who visit
us.
	"THE Myth of the Manuscript Found"—is
the title of the last of the "Faith Promoting
Series," and is a work of real merit. It is by
Elder George Reynolds, and the author has
done himself great credit in collecting such im-
portant facts and compiling them so carefully
and withal connecting them together in such
an orderly and interesting manner as to attract
and keep the attention of the reader constantly
fastened upon the subject. It is a book of incal-
culable value, and must upon its merits have a
wide circulation, both in the Church and among
those who are not Latter-day Saints.
	The Book of Mormon and the Spaulding
Story have been a theme of discussion and spec-
ulation for over forty years, and Brother Rey-
nold's book throws more light on the matter
than has ever been brought to bear directly up-
on it. There is so much in the work to admire
as well as to interest, that it would seem almost
indispensable even in the home library. One
might read it over and over again with benefit
to himself. It gives positive facts and actual
testimonies instead of queries and assertions.
Be sure and buy it. Price 25 cents. For sale at
Juvenile Instructor Office, also at J. H. Parry's
book store, next door to Hardy Bros. and Bur-
ton's on Main Street, S. L. City.
	The Conference of Relief Society of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms in this city, on Friday, the 21st inst,
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Secretaries
should forward their reports as early as possible
to Mrs. E. Howard, care WOMAN'S EXPONENT-
Every Society in the county should be repre-
sented either by the President or one of her
Counselors, or secretary. As it is expected some
business pertaining to the interest of the Socie-
ty will be transacted it is hoped all the members
will attend who can make it convenient. Bish-
ops and brethren of the priesthood are cordially
invited to be present.
	On Saturday morning the Primary Associa-
tions of the Stake will convene in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall. It is urgently desired
by the President, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson, that
there should be a good attendance of the child-
ren from the various wards in the county as
well as a good representation of officers. The
Primary fair is in progress and ought to be made
a grand success. There is nothing stimulates
the energies of the little folks more than there
FAIRS. Be sure and forward reports to Mrs.
Vilate Young, the Secreary of P. A., Salt Lake
County.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. will hold their Conference
in the afternoon of Saturday, 23nd inst., com-
mencing at 2 p.m. The President, Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze, urgently requests the members as
well as the officers to be present, that they may
receive the benefit of the instructions given.
Send reports to Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron, P.
O. Box 419, S. L. City, Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
[FOR THE EXPONENT.]
CONSCIENCE: WHAT IS IT?

	Conscience has been variously defined, and
differently estimated. By some it has been des-
ignated, "The only correct rule of action"—by
others, "An innate power or faculty implanted
in our natures, independent of outward circum-
stances or surroundings." It has also been
termed "the highest authority to which one
can appeal."
	It seems to me that it would be difficult to
make more egregious mistakes. Admitting con-
science to be the test between right and wrong,
whose conscience would be the one by which
decisions should be made? People's consciences
vary nearly, if not quite as much, as the facial
outlines. What a motley variety of standards
of right and wrong! But, says one, God has
implanted the conscience in our organizations
for our guide.
	If God made the conscience why did He not
make all consciences alike? While A's con-
science justifies him in pursuing one course, B's
justifies him in pursuing an entirely opposite
one. For instance, I have been intimately ac-
quainted with a man whose conscience dictated
him to so strictly observe the Sabbathic law that
he refused to partake of food that was cooked on
Sunday; and I have been intimately acquainted
with other men whose consciences varied so
widely from that, that their housekeepers,
whether wives or servants, instead of the privi-
lege of attending meeting and partaking of the
sacrament on the Sabbath, were required to stay
at home and roast beef, make puddings, etc.,
that when those conscience men returned from
meeting they could regale their appetites with a
smoking, luscious dinner. Such probably had
been the custom of their ancestry.
	The wild, roving Indian's conscience justifies
him in stealing whenever he does it unde-
tected—the sin with him consists in not being
shrewd enough to evade discovery, but not so
with the educated one. In our everyday life
how frequently we find persons feeling fully jus-
tified in performing acts which others could not
do without self-condemnation. Why this dif-
ference, if conscience is an unerring dictator?
	Even here, with the Latter-day Saints, who
profess "one Lord, one faith, one baptism," are
all consciences alike? Far from it. We have
been differently educated, and early impressions
are not readily erased.
	God has implanted in the human organiza-
tion the germ of every faculty necessary for a
perfected glorified being; and these germs are
all developed or undeveloped according to cir-
cumstances.
	But, says one, can persons do wrong when do-
ing what conscience dictates? Yes, but at the
same time, they cannot act in opposition to
conscience and do right, for the plain reason
that they would be acting dishonestly with
themselves. Everyone, to be honest, must do
as his or her conscience dictates; but that is not
saying that the act in itself is right; this de-
pends upon the correctness of the standard by
which the germ of conscience is developed or
educated.
	There is one, and only one, perfect standard,
and that is the fulness of the Gospel, as taught
by Christ and His ancient apostles, and re.
vealed in this dispensation. The Latter-day
Saints have this perfect standard.
	The question may be asked why such a varie-
ty exists among them. The Saints have been
gathered from all countries—subject in their
training to almost every variety of circum-
stance; and habits of mind as well as those of
manners, are not readily exchanged. And al
though a perfect law, or system may require
but little time for its enunciation; facts show

[Column 2]
that more than a generation may be necessary
to mould a people by that law or system. Un-
der existing circumstances—taking into con-
sideration our imperfect education, and as Saints
of God, having possession of the Gospel; instead
of appealing to conscience as a reliable criterion,
it should be, "to the law and to the testi-
mony."
	It is presumable that, as soon as the Latter-
day Saints fully comprehend, adapt and educate
every faculty precisely in accordance with this
perfect system of faith and practice, they will
"see eye to eye" in all things, and become "one,
even as the Father and Son are on," and not
until then. E. R. S. S.
	Salt Lake City, Aug., 1883.


﻿THE DICKINSON REUNION

	ORANGE, MASS., Aug. 11, 1883.
MY OWN DEAR MOTHER:
	Here we are in your "dear old New England,"
that we have heard so much about all our lives.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	I went to the Dickinson meeting at Amherst
all alone, don't you think I was brave? I prayed
that I might be directed just what to do and
where to go, and I know that I was. Arriving
at the Amherst Depot there was a perfect jam,
but I looked out for a buss, and as it drove to the
hotel and all the others got out I followed suit.
I had no idea what to do next, but I saw two
real nice looking ladies standing near, and I
plucked up courage to go up and introduce my-
self; they were, as you may suppose, Dick-
insons ladies come to attend the meeting.
I do not know how one so dindent as I,
and timid in society, could do such a thing,
but I did. When they knew I was from Salt
Lake, which fact I lost no time in telling them,
I did not need to say anything more. I went up
stairs with them, and was introduced to Dickin-
son after Dickinson, hundreds of them, it seemed
to me. They wore all very nice people, and as
polite and kind as could be. We soon started
for College Hall.
	There were between two and three hundred
members gathered, and they kept coming in for
some time after. The President of the day, M. F.
Dickinson, Jr. of Boston, was a very fine looking
man, and presided with a great deal of ease and
dignity. Uncle has sent you the papers giving
you all the particulars much better than I can.
There were a great many vice presidents, a sec-
retary and recording secretary. In fact it was
quite an elaborate affair, and everything was in
perfect order.
	Prayer was offered by Rev. Leigh R. Dickin-
son, of Grace Church, at Great Bend, Pa., and
then an address of welcome was delivered by
the President of the day. The address was ex-
cellent, and must have been carefully prepared,
and his manner was pleasing and graceful. He
alluded in the most happy way to the worthy
ancestry of the family of Dickinson. There were
a great many very beautiful thoughts expressed
in his speech. He said a great deal about the
early settlers of New England, of their endu-
rance, their sacrifices and struggles for civil
rights and religions liberty. He said, "It is no
mean distinction to have descended from such
stock. One of those adventurous spirits was
our common ancestor."
	"It is now almost 250 years since Nathaniel
Dickinson landed at Boston, and prior to 1637
found a home at Wethersfield, 40 or 50 miles
below Amherst. In 1659 he planted the perma-
ment seat of our family, and deeply rooted the
name of Dickinson, and here nine succeeding
generations have already risen to call him
blessed." He gave quite a sketch of the family
history, and said "Nathaniel Dickinson died at


[Column 1]
Hadley, June 16th, 1676. The records of his
life deserve to be perpetuated. * * *
No pencil or artist has preserved to us the sem-
blance of his features, no gravestone marks his
resting place. We only know that he sleeps is
the only burying ground at Hadley."
	The next speech was from the orator of the
day, Rev. Charles A. Dickinson, of Lowell, a very
handsome and noble looking man. It was a
historical address, and was received with great
enthusiasm. He gave an extended account of
lineage, claiming all of the name as descendents,
whether spelling it Dickinson, Dickenson,
Dickerson or Dickarson. He stated that in
searching for the ancestry he had heard stories
enough to make a Dickinson cyclopedia. He
said, “I of course discovered among their faces
“my lord and my lady.” Out of the traditional
and historical lore * * I have
sketched such fragments as may enable you to
sketch for yourselves the outlines of our family
tree. We may congratulate ourselves that we
have noble blood in our veins; not merely the
blood of Plantaganets which has doubtless be-
come rather thin by this time, but the blood of
a sturdy line of honest men and women.” 
He spoke eloquently of a few of the distin-
guished dead, and glowingly of the future. His
speech was happily interspersed with poetry ex-
pressive of his subject, which made it all the
more interesting. The next was a poem by
Elizabeth Dickinson Currier, of Worcester, read
by the orator of the day, followed by a humor-
ous essay by Edward B. Dickinson, of New
York City; then a poem by Dr. Gideon Dickin-
son, of Milford. They were all very good and I
enjoyed the speeches very much. They had
what was called “a roll of honor,” hanging on the
wall, containing all the names of the Dickinson
family who had made themselves distinguished.
There was also a chart showing the branches of
the family, and giving some names and a few
dates. 
	After the close of the meeting the
members adjourned to the dining hall; Mr.
Plympton and his wife, of Boston, took me with
them. 
	After dinner we were all seated in front of the
hall for the purpose of having a picture taken.
There were a number of speeches by different
representatives of the family, all very good;
then the President read a telegram from some
member of the family in Colorado; next came a
letter from father, which was preceded by a very
neat speech from the President; he alluded to his
visit to Salt Lake four years ago, and of his visit-
ing places of interest, and being introduced to
father, who he said interested him very much.
He said when he was introduced to father he
told him his grandmother's name was Experience
Dickinson, and then they had an extended con-
versation about families, Dickinson and Wells.
He spoke very highly of father indeed, and then
begged leave to read the letter; every body
seemed delighted with it. * * *
	After the close of the meeting I went up on to
the platform and the President came forward
and introduced me to those who had taken part
in the exercises, and a great many more Dickin-
sons. I went home with the President and his
sister and sister-in-law; it was a lovely drive
through pastures and grand old trees; we passed
the Agricultural College and grounds, they are
just beautiful. The old farm house is a grand
old place. Some of the big elm trees had been
planted by their great, great grandfather. They
all welcomed me so warmly. They had heard
father’s letter read before the meeting.
	There was a reception in the evening, which
was very enjoyable. The time was spent in
singing, dancing, waltzing and in conversation.
After it was over I went home with the family

[Column 2]
and we sat in the parlor and chatted until all
were tired. * *	* * *
	The next morning Belle came over from
Thorndike, and we accompanied the party to
visit the large College; we enjoyed it very much
indeed; then we drove out to Old Hadley, which
was part of the programme. The drive sur-
passed any I ever had taken, and the scenery
too, right along the Connecticut River all the
way was grand. Visited the old home of Na-
thaniel Dickinson, the original settlement of
223 years ago. We went through the old grave-
yard. Some of the stones were so old that it was
impossible to read the inscriptions. * *
We took dinner on the top of Mt. Holyoke, and
the view there—was beyond description.
The whole valley lay before us with its fields,
pastures, woods and cities. I shall never, never
forget it. We could see into four different
states, and with the telescope could see and dis-
tinguish houses, churches, etc. The only regret
I had was that we could not have longer to stay
there. On that day we met ever so many more
nice people, and had a delightful time.
	We expect to have an interesting time here
going over all the places, of which we have
heard you talk so much, visiting your child-
hood’s home.
	Lovingly,
	LOUIE WELLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM LAUREL HILL, TENN.

	Aug. 14th, 1883.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Allow me space in your neat little paper to
thank some kind person for sending me some
copies of papers from Salt Lake. They were
old copies, but were gladly received and highly
appreciated by all that have read them, except
some that have become so steeped in Method-
ism that their minds have become so contracted
that they will not expand for anything but the
M. E. C. Y. I have seen a great deal of Mormon-
ism lately, and will have to acknowledge that it
is quite a different doctrine to what I expected.
Jacob F. Miller and Brigham A. Holbrook, of
Bountiful, Utah, have been stopping with me
often; I find them perfect gentlemen in every
sense of the word, and my door is ever open for
them or any other strangers from Utah, preach-
ers or not, that come and conduct themselves as
Elders Miller and Holbrook. If God would hear
me I would say, God bless all such people and the
Mormon cause if it is as they preach it, and
condemn all such creeds and isms as I have been
raised to believe in.
	May you make the EXPONENT one of the best
papers in the world, that it may help woman
to have her full rights with man.
	I subscribe myself a friend,
		DR. W. E. SYPORT.


﻿DIED.

	DIED, at South Cottonwood, on the 10th of August,
1883, of convulsions, Sarah Lucretia, daughter of Joseph
and Annie M. Thompson, aged one year and eleven
months.


﻿LETTER II.

TO A MOURNING FRIEND.

	You have mourned, you have shed the sa-
cred tears, the only true “holy water;” you
have given nature her due; she is imperative
ever of her rights, and justly so; you have
amply responded to her demands; you have
raised the cenotaph! it points to hea-


ven, where pure spirits rest in beatitude; now
let the vision fade, let it gradually fade into
the past; secret, silent sorrow feeds on vitality,
and drains the springs of life, and produces
barreness of spirit; don't I know it? Away
with it! Life was made for action, not listless
repinings; turn another leaf in the book of life,
there are pages in it you have not yet studied;
seal down the past, and let "by-gones be by-
gones."
	There is a time in most lives when a great
sorrow has fallen upon us; it forms an epoch
in our lives, we feel the springs of life have be-
come dry and arid; the poetry of our life is
gone forever.

We feel as though a funeral pall
This mighty sorrow had let fall,
Upon our soul, our heart, our brain,
Never to be upraised again!

	We sit passive beneath its crushing weight;
this is our night of sorrow, "but joy cometh in
the morning—" Yes to every night there is a
day, a renewing power to the mental stagna-
tion; an angel descends as of old, and moves
upon the waters of our Bethesda! and lo! and
behold we are regenerated! We arise and
shake off the incubus, and again start in the
race of life, "like a giant refreshed"—Shall we
ever love again? We hope not; we never wish
to love any human being again; we have passed
through so severe a crucible, that the furnace
seemed "heated seven times hotter" for us—
but as time passes we find we have come out
purified if calcined—we seem to have new
thoughts, we view life through a more enlarged
Lens, we are calmer, more rational, the poetic
still mingles sweetly through our being, and we
realize that "the silver cord and the golden
bowl" still holds the precious gems of our soul,
which sorrow has only purified and reset in a
mould more becoming our present, improved,
because more enlarged view of life and its
appendages; the Car of Juggernaut has passed
over us—but the votary still lives! we return to
the dream of our youth, and it preserves us as
a talisman from all contamination, and brings
heaven around us with its cherubim and sera-
phim; as a "good Samaritan" fain would I
pour "the oil and wine" of sympathy into thy
bleeding heart—and I feel "the peace of God"
will surely descend upon you, and behind this
heavy cloud you will realize His smile of love
and peace.		Ever thy friend,
						H. T. KING.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Re-
lief Society of the Auckland Branch of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
we forward the enclosed report with a request
that you will favor us with a publication of
the same in your valuable paper.
	A special meeting was called by the presi-
dent of the society and an invitation extended
to all the adult brethren and sisters of the
Auckland Branch. The meeting convened at
the residence of Sister Miles, on the evening of
July 3rd, ult. After singing and prayer, and
stating the object of the meeting, the president
of the society invited President William M.
Bromley to take the chair. A neat bound
volume of "Spencer's Letters" was presented
to Father Rogers in behalf of the society, ac-
companied with an address, read by President
Bromley, in which was set forth an expression
of the good feelings of the society, and their
appreciation of the many acts of kindness and
hospitality extended by him to the "mission-
aries," also to our beloved President Sister
Sarah Williams and family, during the absence
of her husband from his home, much of which


occurred even before he was a member of the
Church. Father Rogers responded in a very
affecting though brief speech. Hymns, songs,
speeches and other pleasing exercises were en-
gaged in. One noticeable feature was the uni-
versal regret expressed that we were soon to
say adieu to Elder William M. Bromley, who
is released, and will return home by the next
mail steamer, and the hearty God bless Bro.
Bromley was expressive of the love and confi-
dence he has won in the hearts of the people,
with whom he associated, and so ably presided
over during the past 2 1/2 years.
	The fruit and refreshment department was
presided over by Sisters Cox and Nelson; a 
plentiful supply thereof had been prepared
and all partook with thankful hearts; truly a
time of love and union was enjoyed, which
long will be remembered by those who partici-
pated therein.
	On the following Thursday the children to
the number of 28 were entertained at the res-
dence of Brother Cox, at which time nearly
all took part in the exercises, in songs, recita-
tions, readings, etc., and Sisters Cox and Nel-
son distributed fruit, lollies, refreshments, to
all, and it was pleasing to note the expressions
of joy and gladness as depicted in the actions
and upon the countenances of all present.
	Ever praying for the success of the EXPON-
ENT in its noble work, we subscribe ourselves
your sisters in the Gospel of peace,
	SARAH WILLIAMS, President,
	HANNAH COX, Secretary.
Auckland, New Zealand, July 15th, 1883.

CASTLE DALE, EMERY CO.
	Minutes of the Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Emery Stake of Zion, held at
Castle Dale, August 3rd, 1883, President Anna
M. Larsen presiding. Conference opened with
the usual exercises of singing and prayer,
reading of reports; the presidents of the differ-
ent societies gave verbal reports and also bore
their testimonies to the truth. President Anna
Larsen made opening remarks, said she was
thankful to see so many present. Expressed
her regret and disappointment at not having
Sisters E. R. S. Smith and E. B. Wells with
us as their presence was anticipated by all. She
knew their absence was unavoidable, and felt
to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things.
	President C. G. Larsen said, he felt honored
in meeting with the sisters, and felt highly hon-
ored in arising to address them; felt pleased to
hear the reports and to see what had been
done towards Temple building; we had received
great blessings, but would receive still greater
ones when our Temples were completed.
Should try to look on the bright side of every
thing through our lives. We were here to
have a good conference; hoped all would feel
free to express their feelings, try to be con-
tented with our lot and not complain because
we do not have everything we might desire;
wished all to avoid running in debt; felt like
blessing and comforting all who were striving
to do right.
	Several of the brethren and sisters made en-
couraging remarks upon storing grain, train-
ing our children, not allowing their minds to
become prejudiced against any of the princi-
ples of the Gospel, and other subjects very in-
teresting and beneficial. All seemed to have a
desire to live their religion and be punctual in
responding to every call made upon them.
	After singing and prayer conference ad-
journed till the first Saturday in February.
	ANNA E. SEELY, Secretary.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 55


﻿The anger of an enemy represents our faults
or admonishes us of our duty with more hearti-
ness than the kindliness of a friend.—Jeremy
Taylor.


﻿LOGAN PRIMARY CHILDREN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 2nd district of the First Ward Primary
of Logan met at the house of President Emma
Pike to surprise on her 79th birthday a poor
widow named Ostlund. There were thirty
ladies present, among them, Stake President of
R. S., Mrs. E. Benson, and Mrs. Lucy Cardon,
Sister Townsend, Sister Ivins from St. George,
Sister R. R. Grant, the mother of Apostle H.
J. Grant, Sister Jane E. Molen, Primary Stake
President, Sister Stewart, Sister Henstrom and
a number of others. The teachers were sent
for the old lady, and as soon as she was seated
the door was thrown open and 50 primary
children sang with spirit "Open the door for
the Children." Prayer by Sister Molen. Sing-
ing "In our Lovely Deseret." An address was
then read by E. L. Crowther, after which all
the children shook hands with the old lady and
nearly all presented her with some little gift.
Sister Molen aud Sister Lucy Cardon ad-
dressed the meeting in a pleasing and interest-
ing manner. A song by Misses Lowe and L.
Lieshman; Reading by Sister Pike; Song,
"Sadie Ray," by the Misses Thompsons. Sis-
ter Henstrom spoke for a few moments on de-
portment, etc. A recitation by Minnie Ful-
mer; Select reading by E. L. Crowther, "The
Model Church."
	Sister Grant spoke in a very interesting way
to the children; exhorted parents to take time
to instruct them, sing, pray and read with
them. "Desire that old Sister Ostlund may
live as long as life is desirable to her, and then
pass through the gates of death without suffer-
ing, and on to her exaltation in our Father's
Kingdom."
	Song by Bertha Jones. Sister Ivins spoke
on purity and its beauty, and counselled the
children to read and educate themselves for the
great future; spoke a few cheering words to
the old ladies.
	Song, "Under the Snow," by Dagman Frank
and Miss Wilson.
	Sister Townsend spoke of the beauty of
truth; said if all mothers were as faithful and
noble as Sister Grant there would be more no-
ble sons. Exhorted mothers to pray with their
children daily, and to win their confidence;
teach them to keep the Sabbath day.
	William Pike recited the Lord's Prayer, all
the children joining in concert. Sister Stewart
spoke a few pleasant words. Song by Jennie
Bench. Sister Benson gave a few words of ad-
vice and comfort to all, especially to the aged.
Sister Pike addressed the assembly in a few
appropriate words, then closed with singing.
Dismissed by Sister Fjelsted, after which all
partook of refreshments. All felt it had been
a good, cheerful meeting.
	Our Primary was organized in June, 1883,
with the following officers: Emma Pike, Presi-
dent; E. L. Crowther and J. Lee, Counselors;
James Stewart, Secretary; Jenny Bench, As-
sistant Secretary; Katie Hansen, Treasurer.


PICNIC PARTY!

	A conjoint picnic party of the Second
Ward Relief Society and Primary Associa-
tion of Logan took place on Saturday, 11th of
August, at Johnson's new bowery. All the
pleasure seekers who were too old or too
young to walk were conveyed to the grounds
in carriages and other vehicles. When all
had arrived the opening exercises commenced
at 10:30 a.m., Mrs. R. Nibley presiding. Sing-
ing by the Primary. Prayer by Sister M. Bal-
lard. Singing. Then followed questions and
answers on the Bible by the Primary Associa-
tion, also songs and recitations, which were
very good
	The remainder of the time was occupied by


the Relief Society, and the recitations and
songs of the members were rendered in a con-
cise and pleasing manner. All present partook
of the bounties of life prepared for the occa-
sion. After refreshments, swinging, skipping
the rope and other sports were engaged in by
all. On the arrival of Sister Elizabeth Ben-
son, President of the Cache Valley Stake Re-
lief Society, her counselors and others (that
were invited but could not attend earlier) the
president, Sister M. Ballard, called the people
to order, and some choice songs and recitations
were given for the benefit of Sister Elizabeth
Benson and the other sisters. Sister Benson
made a few remarks; encouraged all to continue
in well doing; she said it would be a day long
to be remembered, especially by the little folks.
Thinking that they had been rusticating long
enough, President, Sister M. Ballard, thought
it would be well to close the day's enjoyment.
Singing by the Primary. Prayer by Sister
Mary McAllister at 3:30 p.m., when all re-
turned homeward, feeling well satisfied with
the pleasures of the day.
	EMELINE E. JAMES,
		Secretary R. S.
August 13th, 1883.


LETTER FROM OHIO.

DEAR MORMON SISTERS:
	It is coming towards the close of the year,
when all good business persons examine into
their accounts,stock on hand,liabilities, etc. Per-
haps 'twere well to settle up religiously now
and then—take an inventory of liabilities, as-
sets, profits and loss, and so on.
	Our communications began on the subject
of plural marriage. You came forward promp-
ly and answered my questions with seeming
honesty, and I accepted your statements that,
"peace and happiness were found in homes
where plural wives lived together."
	On that point, however, I was not a dispu-
tant, for in studying human nature, as I see it
in those about me, I have long been convinced
that such a change in the marriage relations
would conduce to the happiness and benefit of
the world. But I thank you, all the same, for
your testimonies to the truth of my impres-
sions.
	Perhaps some of you wonder whether your
letters have really had any effect on my mind,
or if I only write for pastime. I will say that
your kind, Christian words have, I trust, fallen
upon good ground, and will, in season, bring
forth abundantly. Almost thou persuadest
me; at least my heart goes out to you with
kindest feelings—akin to love, and I thank
God that we have become acquainted.

	Though we be strangers, far apart,
		In purpose we unite;
	Sympathy and love inspire each heart
		To live for God and Right!

	God is our father—yours and mine,
		As sisters we unite;
	Against all wrong we will combine
		To live for God and right.

	All prejudices thrown aside,
		In letters large we write,
	So all may read the words with pride,
		"We live for God and Right!"

Yours with love,
	EMILY SCOTT.


﻿Things that never happen are often as much
realities to us in their effects, as those that
are accomplished.—Dickens.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿
"THEY SAY."

"They say," oh, well, suppose they do,
	But can they prove the story true?
Suspicion may arise from naught
	But malice, envy, evil thought;
Why count yourself among the "they"
	Who whisper what they dare not say?

"They say"—but why the tale rehearse
	And help to make the matter worse?
No good can possibly accrue
	By telling what may be untrue;
And is it not a nobler plan
	To speak of all the good you can?

	"Oh, how I hate the slanderer," is the uni-
versal cry. Everybody deprecates such a thing
as a slanderous tongue so that nobody will ever
acknowledge its possession, and every body
claims that they would not say any thing to in-
jure another for the world, it is entirely against
their principles, in fact it is awful to speak
evil of our neighbors, and no one has the least
desire to do it. Yet it has never been my
pleasure to meet the person who has not at
some time been the sorrowful victim of slan-
der, injustice and misrepresentation. If you,
dear reader, are acquainted with such a person
please honor me with an introduction and res-
cue me from the settled conviction that such a
one does not exist. Volumes have been writ-
ten about slander, but who ever saw anything
in its praise? It never appeared to meet with
the least appreciation from the pulpit, the press,
nor, it is claimed, the fireside, still it lives and
thrives and fattens, and the mystery is, who
feeds the serpent with its forked and poisonous
tongue, whose appetite is ravenous for the fail-
ings, mistakes and misfortunes of humanity,
seasoned and spiced with the condiments of
jealousy, envy, malice and thoughtlessness,
without these it could not exist an hour, and
all can testify that it has never been starved
to death. Now, who prepares the dainty,
nutritious dishes for slander's greedy palate?
Is it you and I? My conscience is clear, of
course; but why do you blush and look so con-
fused? Oh, you blush to think of that bit of
scandal you repeated at Jenny Smith's the
other day, of course you did not originate it,
"they say" set the story afloat so you thought
it no harm to tell a few of your friends and
hear what they had to say about it, and think-
ing that some parts of the tale seemed slightly
deficient and tame, you colored it with a few
suggestions aud opinions of your own, also
with what knowledge you had of the affair,
which by the way, your imaginative friends
will all ingraft in the story when they repeat
it, each one in turn filling in vacancies with
their own ideas and constructions, till, ere
long, the victim of all this talk is painted
jet black, but every artist will proudly disdain
his share of the painting. Talking on this
subject brings to mind a time when I felt to
blame myself for helping to feed that monster.
Once I positively knew something "real mean"
about an anquiantance, but I felt so generous
and charitable that I would not unvail the
fault to others for any price, till one day, in
an evil hour, I heard that this very person
had been speaking of some of my failings—
this I felt to be very unjust for I hadn't any
worth mentioning I knew—so just to prove
that he had no room to talk about other peo-
ple, I told what I knew, and felt that I was
entitled to a great deal of praise for telling
nothing but the plain truth. I've since tried
to quiet my guilty conscience with the thought
that "Truth is not Slander;" but when I reflect
upon the motive I feel that silence would have
been more noble than even truth; so I carry a-
round a secret contempt for my own weakness.
It don't seem possible that I could be among the
class who would love and make a lie, but I
know that I have "taken up a reproach against
my neighbor," and would be glad to prove

[Column 2]
that I alone was guilty of such an offense.
Since we are all brothers and sisters and child-
ren of the same wise and loving Father, why
can't we realize that the disgrace of our great
human family is no credit to us personally?

"How can it pleasure human kind
To prove humanity but base?"

SUN FLOWER.


[Column 1]
NOTICE

	To Secretaries of Relief Societies. Please
send in your semi-annual reports by 15 h of
September. Those received after 20th of Sep-
tember will have to be omi ted, as our t
her will then have been made out. Please
send to Deseret News Office for blanks, twenty-
five cents per dozen. Also it will be quite a
favor for each secretary to see that her report
balances it will save that work being done here.
Let real estate and property be under one bea[-],
and very much oblige.
				S. M. KIMBALL, Secretary,
						Per R. B. Prat .

ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		- 	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$l.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE.
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, 	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds, 		Brushes, Etc., Etc.

SCHOOL IN MIDWIFERY.

DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT

COMMENCES a new class in her office over Godbe &
Pitts' Drug Store October 8th, at 1 o'clock p. m.
This school was established in 1878. The Term of five
months, three lectures per week, is a practical course
for those who desire to enter at once into this work. It
is advised that those whose circumstances will admit,
attend a second course, for the subject is so comprehen-
sive that a repetition of the lectures is very advan-
tageous, especially to those of limited edncation.
	Other branches of medicine are taught only as they
bear especially upon this subject. More than that in so
limited a course would be too superficial. Manikin,
charts and instruments are used in teaching.
Tuition..........................................................$30.00
Books............................................................$13.00
	N. B.—Orders for books must be sent in early so as to
get them from the east in time.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY., Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENS WARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS.
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQU NS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

