VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1884.	No. 21.


TO SISTER E. R. SNOW SMITH

ON HER EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY.

M. A. GREENBALGH.

My heart has urged, my pen must needs obey
And write a welcome for thy natal day;
Many, many happy returns may'st thou know,
And heaven its blessings profusely bestow;
On earth may happiness round thee cling,
And peace her mantle o'er thee fling;'
May heaven thy footsteps still attend,
And wealth a bounteous tribute send
To light thy steps through earth’s deep gloom,
And smooth thy pathway towards the tomb;
And when life's pilgrimage is won.
And all terrestial strife is done,
May a welcome await thee where care is unknown,
And a place be assigned thee beside that bright throne
Where God in His glory, mid myriads of blest,
Has prepared for the weary a haven of rest;
Or to some glorious orb of light
May thy freed spirit take its flight;
And there undying through eternal years
Find endless pleasure in celestial spheres.
	Meadow, Jan. 21st, 1881.


[Column 1]

EASTER SUNDAY.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There are days and seasons in every life that
draw the soul nearer to God, that throw a-
round it a sweet influence of peace and satis-
faction, something that seems to draw all things
around to a focus, that seem to hold up, as it
were, a mirror to the mind, in which sweet and
glorious visions are presented to the imagina-
tion, and 'tis felt to be indeed a Sabbath—a
time of rest, of retrospection, of meditation, of
entering into a close communion with spiritual
things,and approximating nearer and nearer to
our Father, God. Such a day and season is
most especially Easter Sunday. It occurs in
the lovely season of spring—when earth
has again her annual resurrection, when
the early flowers—the snowdrop and the cro-
cus, raise their pure and beautiful heads above
the dark brown earth, and have a voice that
speaks to our spirit of life renewed. The air
is soft and balmy, the beams of the glorious sun
seem to embrace us with the very warmth of
love, invigorating our frame and rejoicing our
hearts, making our brain bright and vivid, as
though bathed in a chalice of ambrosia; our
step is light and elastic, we feel that earth can
scarcely hold us, our spirit seems to desire to
soar into a still higher region—a more natural
element, the very breath of heaven seems to
fan our cheek, and we feel as though ready for
the “transfiguration!" We walk in the gar-
den alone; yes, we want to be alone so far as
earthly things are concerned; we have thrown
off the "mortal coil" of every day life, we have
entered the sanctuary of our own heart, and
the temple of our brain, and we desire to walk
through the length and the breadth of the same,
feeling we are not alone, but that another is
with us "like unto the Son of God"—could
natural eyes behold Him!
	We are away in the fields of thought, of
meditation; we desire to realize the peculiar
feelings experienced on this glorious Sabbath
morning! What circumstance gives to this
day feelings of a peculiar kind, such as we re-
alize on no other? Every Sabbath brings sweet

[Column 2]

and peaceful feelings, but none that has the
beauty and the solemn peace, aud the entire
satisfaction of this Easter Sunday! Why is it
so? What is the cause? It is the day on which
the Savior arose bodily from the repose of the
sepulchre. "On the third day He rose again"
and walked in the beantiful garden and met
Mary, who was mourning and searching for
the Lord. She, thinking He was the gardener,
said inploringly, "Sir, if thou hast borne Him
hence, tell me where thou hast laid Him, and I
will take Him away." Jesus said unto her,
"Mary?" She turned and saith unto Him,
"Rabboni!" Let us try to realize for a mo--
ment this sublime, this thrilling scene. My
soul seems to expand to leap at the bare recit-
al of it. He had veiled Himself from her nat-
ural eyes, but that marvelous voice pronounc-
ing only her name, laid bare the wondrous vol-
ume, and she knew Him. She rushed forward
to kneel and clasp His knees, but again the
voice says, "Touch me not, for I have not yet
ascended to my Father." Let us ponder on
this wondrous scene; how glorious, how consol-
ing, how exalting those few but mighty words,
what do they not import? They have a mean-
ing which our obscure and limited understand-
ing cannot fully comprehend, and yet enough
is conveyed to the spirit ear of the devout
Christian that is better than our present insuf-
ficient language could possibly portray.
	Easter is the first great festival of the year,
as Christmas is the last, the one commemor-
ates the birth, the other the death and resur-
rection of the Divine Savior of the world.
What a field for reflection is involved in these
two grand epochs! When we realize the mar-
velous love of God to man, and how it was dis-
played for the redemption of the human fami-
ly, how deep should be our gratitude, how a-
bundant our praise, how entire our adoration!
	It is remarkable that in the English version
of the Bible, the word Easter occurs for the
passover. It will be found in the twelfth chap.
of the Acts of the Apostles, fourth verse. In
I Corinthians, fifth chapter and seventh verse.
Paul says, "Christ our passover is sacrificed for
us." Jesus was typified by the Paschal lamb,
and the early Christians joined in the celebra-
tion of the great Jewish festival, which wa
held on the first new moon of the spring.
	Eester is the most joyful festival of the Greek
and Roman churches; it is also observed with
great solemnity by the Church of England,
the Lutheran, and the European Calvinists—
under the new style. The earliest possible day
whereon Easter can happen is the 22nd of
March, on which day it fell in the year 1818,
and cannot do so again till the year 2285. The
latest possible day whereon it can fall is the
25th of April.
	Regarding Easter offerings,these are thought
by some to be derived from the gifts of the
wise men of the East, who came to worship the
infant Savior at Bethlehem, but others declare
this custom had even an older origin it being
the practice of the Jews to make offerings of
the firstlings of their flocks, and first fruits in
the temple at the passover.
	Another Easter custom, which is still kept
up in some parts, is that of presenting children
with eggs stained with various colors in boil-
ing, termed paste, or more properly, Pasche
eggs, doubtless from the word paschal. This
custom appears to have been derived from the
Roman Catholic superstition that eggs were an
emblem of the resurrection.

[Column 3]

	Easter-tide, as the week succeeding Easter
Sunday was called in former times,was distingu-
ished as a season of great rejoicing. It was the be-
lief of the vulgar, says Dr. Blake in his "Life
and Times of Shakespeare," that the sun him-
self partook of the exhilaration and danced
on Sunday, metaphorically considered; indeed,
the idea may be termed both just and beauti-
ful, as the earth and her valleys standing thick
with grain, are said to laugh and sing. So, on
account of the resurrection, the heavens and
the sun may be said to dance for joy, or, as the
Psalmist words it, "the heaven may rejoice and
the earth be glad."
	Three days only contain the winding up-
scene of the Savior's mission on the earth. The
Church of England names the first "Good Fri-
day"—on which the crucifixion took place. A
rich man—Joseph of Arimathea—went to Pi-
late and begged the body of Jesus, and he took
it down and wrapped it in fine linen, and laid
it in a sepulchre wherein never man was laid.
Convoys of angels were the holy sentinels
watching the sacred repose of that body that
was not "to see corruption." The God spirit
had passed into Hades, the region of the con-
demned, and there "preached to the spirits in
prison," opening the prison doors and bidding
the captives go free. Early on the morning of
the third day, being Sunday, he resumed that
reposing body and walked forth in the garden
of Mausoleum, where Mary is seeking her
Lord; there He meets her and gives her the
first gospel mission to a woman—"Go to my
brethren and say unto them, I ascend to my
Father and to your Father, to my God and to
your God." Mary, Mary! blesed art thou
among woman!


OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE 
MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(To be Continued.)
	Sunday, the 31st. A general conference had
been appointed, but as the meeting was about
to commence a heavy storm arose which
caused the people to disperse. They met again
in the afternoon, but the rain prevented them
from effecting much, and it continued through
the day and night.
	This day, Horace wrote, "Bro. Noah Rogers
expired to-day after an illness of ten days. He,
Bro. Grouard, Bro. Addison Pratt and Bro.
Hanks, were the first to introduce the Gospel
to the inhabitants of Toobouia and Tahiti Is-
lands, belonging to the Society Group in the
Pacific Ocean. Bro. Rogers was gone about
three years, during which time he, with his
brethren, accomplished a great work and were
the means of bringing many to a knowledge of
the truth. He has left a large family to mourn
his loss, but one great consolation to them will
be the fact that he died in full faith of the
Gospel, and with the hope of a glorious resur-
rection, having the conscious satisfaction that
many a dark and benighted heathen had,
through his instrumentality, been led into the
"straight and narrow path that leads to eternal
life."
	Monday, the 1st of June. It continued rain-
ing till about noon, when it cleared off. This
is my mother's and President Young's birth-
day. Horace wrote that he had watched part
of the night with Jacob Frazier, who was get-
ting better; was very cold weather iudeed for


[Column 1]
the time of year. He says, "Horace Rockwell
arrived here to-day from Nauvoo, bringing the
mail; he left the city last Wednesday—brought
me a paper, (Hancock Eayle), from Waterman
Phelps, by reading which I found that Porter
had taken a change of venue to Joe, Davies
County, and is to be tried at Galena on Mon-
day, the 8th inst. The rumors we have heard
of his being shot in his unsuccessful attempt to
escape from Quincy Jail are entirely ground-
less—on the contrary, he has made no attempt
to escape, and has declared that were ever so
good an opportunity to present itself he would
not avail himself of a chance to escape, but
would await his trial. Rockwell says there did-
not seem to be much hostility manifested to-
wards him, Porter, where he had been, but
rather a feeling of curiosity to behold such a
noted individual, and that he had a great num-
ber of visitors, who daily flocked to see him.
He is treated kindly, uniformly, both by the
officers of the law and the people."
	"Tuesday, the 2nd.	*	*	Struck our
tents—sun about an hour high—crossed the
river, went two miles and encamped on the
prairie. Brigham is three miles ahead, he hav-
ing started yesterday.	*	*	*	The
roads somewhat muddy, but improving."
	It rained a little during that night—-just as
we were about starting next morning a young
Indian, belonging to the Pottawatomie tribe,
rode up on a pony—he had a young spotted
fawn in his arms, which father bought of him,
giving him a dollar in silver, but it died in a
couple of days after. We overtook President
Young before his tents were struck, stopped
there about three hours, where Bishop Whit-
ney overtook us, having come that morning
from Mt. Pisgah. "The whole camp proceed-
ed six miles," wrote Horace, "and encamped
on the prairie near some timber, making in all
nine miles to-day. This morning, before start-
ing, wrote two letters for Bro. Kimball, one to
the Trustees in Trust, the other to Sister Mary
Smith, Hyrum's widow; he intends sending
them by Bro. Markham. Bro. Kimball gave
him an order on the Trustees for four yoke of
oxen, he having given up his team to him."
	The next day was cold and cloudy, accom-
panied by quite a sharp wind. We started
quite early that morning, leaving Bishop Whit-
ney behind—he had lost his cattle during that
night. We went about eight miles and baited
al out noon, where we saw some fine looking
Indians on horseback. We went ten miles fur-
ther and encamped on the prairie near the tim-
ber and a stream of water. Our road that day
was altogether ou the prairie, which we were
told was eighteen miles long, being the dis-
tance we had accomplished that day; the long-
est day's journey since we left Nauvoo. We
had just encamped when Bro. A Fielding over-
took us and remained with us all night. He
was to start next day for Nauvoo. A day or
two previous to this my husband's sister, Sarah
Ann, commenced tenting with us and we con-
tinued together till houses were built at Winter
Quarters.
	"Friday, the 5th" Horace wrote, "somewhat
obscured by clouds this morning, and a little
rain, but it soon cleared off cloudless and beau-
tiful. Wrote a letter this morning for Bro.
Kimball to Bro's Huntington, Benson and
Rich, at Mt. Pisgah, requesting four yoke of
cattle. Started about eight, and about ten
o'clock struck the Indian trail leading from
Racoon Fork to Council Bluffs, passed through
some very romantic spots and quite a diversity
of scenery to what we have hitherto seen on
our passing, route o'er hill and through brake
and bush." We saw the remains of a good
many Indian wigwams, which had the appear-
ance of being constructed some time since.
They were composed of boughs of trees curi-
ously interwoven. Just before reaching our
place of encampment for the night we saw a

[Column 2]
large number of them which had fallen down
and were dried, and as we intended going on a
little further before stopping, and there being
nothing but prairie before us as far as the eye
could extend, everyone gathered a bundle for
firewood. Wm. found a small breastplate that
had evidently been lost by an Indian. We
traveled about fourteen miles to-day—father.
has not yet come up with us. We encamped
on a small creek, and Brigham also within a
short distance from us.
	Saturday, the 6th. Rained a little during
the day, traveled about fourteen miles and en-
camped on the bottom in the vicinity of quite
a large creek. The wagons were all arranged
successively in a circle of about a quarter of a
mile in circumference, thus making; an inclos-
ure for our horses; just as we were encamping
father, with his teams, came up.	*	*
Would have overtaken us before had they
not stopped to repair a wagon.
	Next day being Sabbath a meeting was cal-
led at ten o'clock. Brother Brigham and fa-
ther spoke at some length, exhorting the peo-
ple to the observance of the ordinances and
commandments of God. A number of Indians
and squaws, Pottawatomies, who were camped
some four or five miles from us, came to see us
mounted on their ponies and horses, and decor-
ated and painted in their gay and peculiar
style. We started in the afternoon and went
about seven miles, and encamped just about
sunset on a small creek near the timber, Presi-
dent Young arranging his wagons on one side
of the road, and father his on the other. This
was a beautiful day for traveling, the roads be-
ing very good. Here one of Brother Dike's
oxen had its neck broken—being turned loose
in the yoke. Bishop Miller built a bridge here
and we saw on a tree, before crossing, an in-
scription done with a knife, "Lost Fork
Bridge."
	On the 8th, Horace says, "Started about eight
this morning, traveled about four miles and
came to a river.	*	*	which we cros-
sed on a bridge and passed through the viliage
where the Chief of the Pottawatomies resided.
Immediately after crossed the same stream
again, which bears the name of Manottawa, or
the "Sleeping Rock." probably originating
from some wild legend or tradition of the In-
dians. Here we stopped about an hour and
baited our cattle; during which time we were
visited by a great number of the tribe, both In-
dians and squaws. The chief went to Brigham
and wanted him to pay them for the grass
which the cattle eat; this request they were
probably "put up to" by some of the whites,
enemies to our people. While we stopped here
we had the amusement of seeing two or three
horse races. They have very fine horses and
ponies among them, as we found out to our sat-
isfaction by running with them—traveled four-
teen miles and encamped on another small
creek near the timber. Father and Brigham
had already arrived here, and encamped. At
this place, just before descending the hill to the
river, we saw an Indian burial ground, which
we distinguished by a white flag that we saw
fastened to a tree. The Indians appeared to
be in quite a destitute condition, offering us va-
rious ornaments, such as beads, wampum and
other trinkets in exchange for food. Father
called his portion of the camp together and ad-
monished them to get their firelocks ready in
case of emergency. The names of the ones
who never had been organized were called over;
these were fourteen, it seems, of whom Brother
Alva Tibbitts was appointed captain. Hor-
ace continues:
	"Thursday, the 9th. Beautiful day! started
about eight this morning.	*	*	To-
wards evening arrived at a spot something like
an inclined plain, situated on a small creek and
environed by trees on each side. On account
of the uncommon beauty of the place Brother

[Column 3]
Kimball named it "Paradise." We then cros-
sed the creek, ascended the hill and proceeded
about a mile and encamped on another creek in
the vicinity of timber; here found a beautiful
spring of water, which rivaled in sweetness any
I ever saw."
	Here, wa found Bro. Lorenzo Young, who, as
a rule, camped a little distance from the rest
to favor Sister Harriet Young, who was a con-
stant sufferer from asthma, and desired to be
quiet, which was out of the question in a large
camp, and as young as I was she had my sym-
pathies. We learned from Uncle Lorenzo that
President Young had encamped three miles a-
head, where Bishop Miller and company were
engaged in bnilding a bridge, so we stopped
here, having traveled about thirteen miles.
	Next morning a number of our camp went
to assist in building the bridge. Father and
Bishop Whitney drove over to see the President,
and in the afternoon be came back in his car-
riage with Sister Mary Ann Young. He, with
father and Bishop Whitney, mounted their
horses, while sister Young, my mother and
Mother Whitney got into the carriage and went
after strawberries. They returned towards
evening bringing three or four quarts.
	Horace wrote: "To night we boys returned,
having finished the bridge. Had quite a pleas-
ant time this evening, which we spent in danc-
ing on the green grass till bed time; the bright
orb of night shining in all its glory over our
heads."


162	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MORMON BATTALION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having made several successful trips in the
different parts of the territory in the interest
of the Mormon Battalion, allow us through
the columns of your valuable paper to express
our sincere thanks to all who have in any way
aided us in our arduous labors. May heaven's
choicest blessings rest upon our dear Editor in
all of her labors, is the prayer of your humble
Sister in the Gospel,
					RUTH W. TYLER.

	N. B. Should read, "History of the Mormon
Battalion." It is a work that shonld be in all
the libraries of the youth of Zion. There are
many usefnl lessons to be learned from such
history, the record of brave men, who endured
toil, privation and hardship as well as separa-
tion from their families for principle's sake, for
the love of country and true loyalty to a gov-
ernment who had allowed them to be driven by
mobs from the borders of civilization.
	S. L. City, March 12th., 1884.


The Woman Suffragists of Nebraska held
their annual convention at York, on January
17 and 18.

	Gen. Washington said, "If a national gov-
ernment may choose to treat arbitrarily any
portion of its people, considering not their
merits and deeds, and ignores their inherent
rights, it infringes its own right to tranquility,
peace and prosperity, to that extent that dis-
satisfaction and disintegration within its own
dominion are engendered; and the consequent
issue is disruption and open rebellion."

	This is a world or sweet surprises. It is a
world of joy. There are sweet spirits that ex-
hale the perfume or happiness, as flowers send
out their fragrance. They do not need to be
seen to tell the story of their presence and
their mission. They have other and better a-
venues of disclosure. The invisible is the real
—whether in this, or any other world. It is
the soul that loves and is loved—that recog-
nizes and is recognized—that greets and is
greeted.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 163


"HOME, SWEET HOME."

Straight is the gate and narrow the way,
And weary the journeying day by day;
Tempations and trials on every hand,
But soon we shall reach the promised land;
And angels in heaven will sing as we come,
"Well done, faithful servants, come home, come home."

The weary journey we will not regret,
Temptations and trials we'll soon forget,
And strike on our harps a louder strain,
As we join in gladness our sweet refrain;
The angels in heaven sing as we come,
"Well done, faithful servants, come home, come home."

Ah, when we have reached the promised land,
And taken our place mid th' angelic band,
How gladly we’ll welcome each day some friend,
And holy and sweet our voices will blend
In the song the angels sing as they come,
"Well done, faithful servants, come home, come home."

The angels that watched round the tomb we'll see,
The "chosen twelve" and the "Mother Mary;"
Elias and Moses will be in the throng.
To share in the bliss and join in the song
The angel band as a welcome sings,
"Well done, faithful servants, come home, come home."

Jesus our Savior, and God on the throne,
Will be there to greet each purified one;
The portals of heaven will echo and ring
With praises to God, our priest and our king,
Who bids His angels the welcome sing,
"Well done, faithful servants, come home, come home."
										E. S. D.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel inspired to communicate, through your
valuable paper, the EXPONENT, a few of my
thoughts, although I cannot convey in writing
my true feelings. In reading the anniversary
of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith's 80th birthday,
suffice it to say, that I heartily endorse all that
my sisters have said through Sister Pratt, and
although debarred of her personal counsel and
society, I fully appreciate her sterling worth as
an organizer and leading spirit in this last dis-
pensation. The dauntless heroism she has dis-
played proves that woman is capable of rul-
ing. She has shown her adaptability as a lead-
er in the woman's organizations of this Church,
over which she presides. It is a standing mon-
umen[-] to her genius worthy of being handed
down to the latest generation. We pray for the
choicest blessings of heaven to attend her in
her declining years, that her life may be pro-
longed on the earth until she is satisfied with
life. What joy and satisfaction I have taken
in reading her soul-inspiring poetry when
weighed down with care and bereavement, and
passing through the dark valley of trouble it
has raised me to faith, hope and life. I feel
that the greatest tribute we can pay her is to
follow her wise counsel and emulate her exam-
ple, teach our children the principles of truth
that she has spent her life in promulgating.
	In reading yonr editorial on Woman's Suf-
frage, I feel to acknowledge the power of our
Heavenly Father in working upon the hearts
of our sisters in the east in causing them to
take the interest they do in the momentous
question of woman's rights, as it is a question
involving a great deal to us, and one upon
which depends, in a great measure, the future
prosperity of this nation; the nation has be-
come so corrupt in the hands of men that it
will take the modifying influence of woman to
help them out of the mire.
	We believe that man is not complete with-
out the woman, and that they should work
conjointly that the best good may accrue, it is
folly to fight against equal rights; it is an un-
deniable fact that women are conscientious in
their views of right and wrong; that they are
more inclined to religion than men, that they

[Column 2]
have a finer spiritual nature, and I think that
men of thought and understanding cannot help
but see that it will be to their interest to have
woman take her proper place and work as hav-
ing the same object in view, the elevation of
the human family.
	I have been re-reading Judge Black's argu-
ment on the right of Iocal self-government; (it
should be written in letters of gold and treas-
ured in the home of every lover of the princi-
ples of freedom and equal rights) he says: "A
violation of constitutional law is not an offense
which is ever made venial by the occasion, you
cannot do evil that good may come, the evil is
there, but the good never comes." Just the
stand we take. You cannot go around the
constitutional law, giving us local self-govern-
ment, and thrust upon us our avowed enemies
to rule over us. That theory carried out would
make us a community of slaves, subject to the
will of Congress; and we, having no represent-
ative in that body, would be subjected to any
legislation they might see fit to [-]ake, howev-
er detrimental to the people's interest, We
have a local government here made by men of
the people's choice, and we claim the right to
sustain that government according to the right
given us by the Constitution; and we, the wo-
men of Utah, being made equal with men,
think it possible, by application and study, to
ultimately attain to the qualifications necessary
to the filling of any position woman may be
fitted for or called upon to fill. Then why
should men seek to deprive us of our rights?
Would it not be more god-like to help in the
advancement of women in their political aspir-
ations? As much so as in their charitable en-
deavors to elevate the human family. Why
uot give their faculties full scope when they
seek to do good? Do they think that what
woman does will dim the lustre of their glory?
Will it not rather add to it? Do not women
feel the same aspirations to be great and noble
as men? Do they not feel the same patriotic
fire, the same love of liberty? Yes. And we
do not feel too refined to meddle with politics;
we feel a lively interest in it, and the more we
study and comprehend the more we want to
know. Some say that it unfits a woman for
her household duties to take an active part in
law and politics; but it is not so; it makes her
feel the importance and necessity of greater
care being thrown around her family, and pro-
tecting them from the corruptions of the world,
for she cannot study and obtain a close insight
into the doings of men, holding the destiny of
nations in their hands, without seeing the cor-
ruption that is sapping away the foundations of
honor, truth and chastity from the nations of
the earth, and it makes her heart bleed for the
future generations; unless God shall help,
strengthen and support the government there
would be no hope. There certainly is a great
necessity for some powerful agency to promote
the good of the human family.
	We, as mothers in Israel, feel to humble our-
selves before God and crave His help to sus-
tain us in our endeavors to live uprightly and
honest and meekly with ourselves, and true to
God and our religion. Always keep the exam-
ple of Jesus, our Elder Brother before our
eyes continually, that we may not imbibe the
spirit of the world and become bitter towards
those that persecute us for our religion, but let
us say, "Father, forgive them, for they know
not what they do." But while we forgive we do
not want to lose sight of our honor, our rights
and our dignity.
	The Almighty will deal out judgment and
justice to the wicked. The Lord says through
the mouth of His prophet, "The anger of the
Lord is kindled against the wicked and His
sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall
upon the inhabitants of the earth; and the arm
of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day com-
eth that they who will not hear the voice of the

[Column 3]
Lord, neither that of His servants; neither gives
heed to the words of the Prophets and Apos-
tles, shall be cut off from among the people."
He also says: "Behold I, the Lord, utter my
voice, and it shall be obeyed; verily, I say, let
the wicked take heed, and let the rebellious
fear and tremble; and let the unbelieving hold
their lips, for the day of wrath shall come up-
on them as a whirlwind, and all flesh shall
know that I am God."
	We feel to warn and exhort all to let truth
and reason guide them, and let judgment rest
with God.
	We are living in a momentous age, and it is
all important that we make our religion our
first object; that we seek the interest of the
Kingdom of God; the time is coming, and is
close at hand, that will try us to the core, and
unless we have on the whole armor we may
find that we lack the strength that is requisite
to enable us to stand firm and weather the
storm. We feel the need of strengtn out here in
this region, shut in, as it were, by mountains
on every side, and deprived of the counsel and
help of our sisters that stand at the head of
our organizations, and we will rejoice when
travelling facilities are such that we can have
our sisters visit us occasionally. We are pro-
gressing as well as can be expected with our
limited facilities, under the wise supervision of
our respected president, Sister Larsen; we held
our conference on the 2nd of last month, and
had a splendid time, the Spirit of the Lord
was richly poured out upon the sisters, and we
felt to rejoice in the Lord.
	Praying for the triumph of truth over error,
				Your sister,
					SARAH A. FULLMER.

Orangeville, Emery County.


SHORT AND SWEET.

	Taking Friday evening's train, Sister Louie
Felt, Mary J. Cluff and myself sped on to San-
taquin, where we were met by Grandma Stick-
ney and Sister Wall, the Primary president.
Arriving at the meeting house, our ears were
saluted with sweet sounds from within. On en-
tering we found the hall filled, children in
front, parents occupying the seats that were
remaining. Such order! such an outpouring
of the divine influence that every heart was
filled with joy.
	Bishop Halliday moved that Sister Felt, be-
ing a missionary's wife, have her fare paid; the
hands flew up and the money came down; a
vote was called for those who did not keep the
word of wisdom to rise; not one of the officers
or members moved; and then for those who
were observing this commandment to rise, we
all rose; this gave us great joy.
	Saturday. Held meeting in Payson at 10
a.m. had a full house, good spirit and warm
friends, which made the time go like magic.
	At 3 p.m. held meeting in Salem; "all went
merry as a marriage bell;" children clean,
sweet and orderly.
	Returned to Payson, where we were the re-
cipients of Brother and Sister Douglas' hos-
pitality; enjoyed a delightful evening, and re-
turned by the morning train healthier, happi-
er and wiser for trying to do our duty to the
children of the Saints.
					ZINA Y. WILLIAMS.


George Sand is to have a statue erected at
La Cha[-]re, on July 15. It is the work of M.
Millet, and will be exhibited at the salon.

	Miss Anna E. Dickinson has been very
at the Palmer House, Chicago. Her many
warm friends everywhere will be glad to know
she is recovering.


164	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	APRIL 1, 1884.


[Column 1]
MRS. LOCKWOOD'S SPEECHES.

	Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood has been up in the
State of New York recently, and was there in-
terviewed on the Mormon question by newspa-
per reporters. Mrs. Lockwood said:
	"I spoke upon the Mormon question at last
year's convention and also went before the Com-
mittee on Territories. For that the Mormon
people passed me a resolution of thanks and al-
so took up a collection and sent me $100; but I
cannot say that I am retained in their behalf
thereby. I was Vice-President for the District
of Columbia of the Woman's National Suffrage
Association, and was this year asked to make a
speech of thirty minutes before the convention
on any subject that I should choose. I selected
woman and her relation to trades and profes-
sions, and prepared myself to speak on it, with
the knowledge of Miss Anthony and Mrs. Se-
well, Chairmen of the Executive Committee.
The day before the Convention met, Miss An-
thony saw me and said that my subject en-
trenched upon the subjects of some of the other
ladies, and that as I could more readily change
than any of them, she desired me to take up the
subject of disfranchisement of the women of
Utah and Wyoming, remarking, "If you do not
treat that subject, no one else will, as they have
neither the knowledge nor the courage.' In my
speech I made a legal argument against the pas-
sage of the Hoar amendment to the Edmunds'
bill, and the Cassidy bill. I showed that the
Hoar amendment, which contains a clause to
disfranchise the women of Utah, is unconstitu-
tional and inquisitorial; and that the Cassidy
bill to wipe out the Legislature of the Territory,
is an unwarranted usurpation of power by the
general government. The portion of my speech
which specially caused the commotion was when
I compared the religions of the world, showing
how they had their origin. Joseph Smith had
but six followers.	*	*	*	*
	In six years the Mormons increased
to 15,000, and to-day they number over 100,000.
The Methodist Church of America started with
a membership of six persons, in St John Street,
New York. Now its membership is 4,000,000.
I showed the origin of Mohammsdanism, pre-
cisely as that of the Mormon religion, and quo-
ted that Mohammed said, 'If you do not be-
lieve that this book is from God, see if you can
write a better one.' The Mohammedans now
number 180,000,000. All these religions were
persecuted, in the beginning, and my object
was to show that to persecute a church was only
to increase its membership. On this line of
thought I said it was religious persecution that
settled the shores of the rock bound New Eng-
land and drove the Baptists out of Connecticut.
The Government, I claimed, had no more right

[Column 2]
to attack and despoil the Mormon Church than
the Catholic or any other church. That policy
in Utah where every man supports his wives
and children is not so much worse than the pol-
icy in the District of Columbia where men re-
tain their numerous wives, but refuse to recog-
nize them or support them or their children. I
don't believe in the Mormon religion any more
than in the Mohammedan. I was educated a
Methodist and have largely attended the Bap-
tist Church. I don't know that I would swear
by any of them. I am willing to accord to
every person perfect freedom in political and re-
ligious matters."
	Mrs. Lockwood, speaking of her alleged re-
tainer by the Mormons, said: "I am the attorney
and my credentials are filed, for the State of
Panama. I was appointed by the Commission-
er to look after the interests of that State.
Whenever the liberties of the Mormon women
of Utah are threatened, they telegraph or write
to me, but it is not because I am a Mormon, but
because I am a woman suffragist and a humani-
tarian.
	"In regard to my speech at the convention, I
may add that Miss Anthony arose and said to
the audience that the Woman's Suffrage Na-
tional Association had nothing to do with any
legislation in Congress that treated men and wo-
men alike, upon which I begged pardon of the
andience for not having discernment enough to
distinguish the difference between the rights of
men and the rights of women." Mrs. Lockwood
prefers her position upon the question to that of
Miss Anthony."
	Joaquin Miller, when before the Committee
on Territories at the National Capitol, where he
had been summoned to speak on the subject of
Mormonism, met with a lady lawyer, who had
come purposely to speak on the same subject,
Mrs. Lockwood, and he gives his idea of the wo-
man and her speech, and as he is a very pleas-
ant writer, although he does not know all about
Mormonism, we will give his description in his
own words, as his style is very humorous, and
certainly original.
	"She came with a whirr, a snap, conscious-
ness and self-assertion that at once was a sort of
challenge to battle. O, woman, woman! Don't
you know that the day you succeed in making a
soldier of yourself, you will have to fight for
every inch of ground you get instead of having
the whole earth given you, as it is now.
	"She ran around among the chairs and tables
and men, like a little speckled hen that had lost
her last chicken.
	"Then she fluttered down beside the clerk,
slammed down some books and saying, "I am
here to make a speech this morning," proceed-
ed to unroll papers and write furiously.
	"The Committee was not yet in session, and
I in conversation with a Member incidentally re-
marked that we had in early days coined gold in
Oregon. She shot up, and not even deigning to
look at me, she shouted: "And that in the face
of the Constitution, which says, No state shall
coin money issue bills of credit." Then the
head dropped, the deft hand flew, and the pen
rattled over the paper.
	"The Chairman called to order, the lady law-
yer was at once on her feet; and shouted out her
purpose to be heard on the momentous Mormon
question: on motion of someone, fifteen minutes
was allotted for her speech. Catching up her
books, bag, and manuscript, hastening to the
far end of the room, she took position just under
the fox and rattlesnake, and laying down the
papers she crossed her pretty hands and looked
at us tranquilly, triumphantly, a long time un-
der her geld rimmed glasses. This woman fam-
ous in the annals of this city, standing there
with folded hands, under the ferocious fox of
Oregon, had it all her own way at once. She

[Column 3]
was pretty to begin with. No bangs; no frizzels;
no foolishness at all in dress or address. Her
heavy, grey hair was combed back in the old
chaste style, and showed a splendid brow and
fine, earnest face. All leaned forward and lis-
tened eagarly as she began, and as she went on
for the first few minutes. Her English, her ar-
ticulation, her elocution, all seemed perfect. I
doubt if any man in Congress could use better
language, or use it with more grace and precis-
ion. For the first fifteen minutes no man
moved or spoke, but at twenty minutes she be-
gan to fail, to flounder about, to blunder. She
had forgotten her piece. And then, poor dear,
she had undertaken to settle the whole stu-
pendous Mormon question, the morality and
immorality of it; to expound the Constitution,
compare Congress to King George, all in fifteen
minutes! No wonder she got beyond her depth.
Men got impatient; they began to talk; some
giggled as she soared and soared to her final ap-
peal and got so high that she melted the wax of
her wings and fell to the ground there under the
gentle rattlesnake and the ferocious fox of the
far off Oregon. Evidently the old member, who
had muttered something not complimentary as
she first entered, was like myself, thinking of
old Rome. For as she gathered up her papers
after forty minutes of able defence of the Mor-
mons; and fluttered to her seat, he settled back
and said to himself, "Great Caesar!"
	"As a faithful chronicler of unique things
here at our country's Capital, I am free to admit
that there are many men, myself among the
number, who could not have made, to save their
lives, such a speech! The only real trouble a-
bout it all was in not knowing when to stop. At
the end of twenty-five minutes the Chairman
had to call her to order She, womanlike, want-
ed to have the last word. She was allowed five
minutes more, and took fifteen to end."


TESTIMONY THAT CANNOT BE
REFUTED.

	A lecture was delivered by F. C. Brand, in
the Saints Chapel, Sunday evening, Feb. 3rd,
1884, on "celestial marriage frauds," as he
terms it. I will say nothing about the first
part of his lecture, nor the flimsy arguments he
makes use of to sustain himself in his position
as opponent to celestial marriage. His fourth
question is, What shall we do with these wo-
men that have made affidavit that they were
Joseph Smith's wives? Why, we shall cross ex-
amine them. He read to the audience my affi-
davit, and says, "J. Adams denied performing
the ceremony, in 1873, while in London, and in
presence of Emma Smith, who also denies any
knowledge of such a marriage, on her death
bed." Further on he says, "One of the elite la-
dies of Ogden told me that she could swear that
Hyrum Smith married or sealed four women to
his brother Joseph, giving their names, etc."
	Now, I have often wondered, if they really
wanted to learn the truth, why they did not
come and put their questions to me, instead of
going to an "elite lady of Ogden," who made
no pretence of knowing only by hearsay, and if
she did vary a little from the truth, it is not so
very strange, neither is it any proof that plural
marriage is not of God, or that my affidavit is
not true. I have made a statement of facts that
I know; not of what I have heard or believe,
but what is actual knowledge. I am not afraid
of being cross questioned, but even if it were
possible to make me contradict myself, it would
not alter the facts. "Facts are stubborn things,"
and refuse to be obliterated. Facts cannot be
destroyed, no matter how strong the proof or ar-
guments may be, seemingly, that are brought
to bear against them. Truth will stand bold and


[Column 1]
defiant through everything. Truth is the rock
on which I stand, and I know whereof I speak,
and that is why I have no fears. I am willing
to answer any reasonable question that anybody
may desire to ask. The time has been when
my conscience forebade me to speak of these
things, and no cross questions would have made
me reveal the facts. The time had not come to
publish to the world this "holy order of matri-
mony." It would have brought great trouble
upon the Prophet and the people; but now I feel
it my duty to bear my testimony to the truth of
Joseph Smith teaching and practicing plural
marriage some years before his death. And the
revelation given through him was no less true
because it was not written as soon as revealed.
Emma was a witness to Joseph taking plural
wives, on one occasion at least, and if she has
denied it on her death bed (which is very hard
to believe) even forty times over, it does not des-
troy the facts; and as to J. Adams denying that
he performed the marriage ceremony, I think it
is a mistake. It might have been George J.
Adams that denied it, but the one I mentioned
in my affidavit was James Adams, generally
known as Judge Adams, of Springfield, Ill. He
did not reside in Nauvoo, but was there on a
visit. I do not think he would deny it, unless
he had apostatised, and I know an apostate will
say and do almost anything to injure the truth.
But if he and Emma, and every other witness
should deny it, the fact still remains. Emma
seemed to feel well until the ceremony was over,
when, almost before she could draw a second
breath, she turned, and was more bitter in her
feelings than ever before, if possible. She had,
as it were, bound us to the ship and carried us
to mid ocean, then threw us over board to sink
or swim, as the case might be.
	She often made things very unpleasant, but I
have nothing in my heart towards her but pity.
I know it was hard for Emma, and any women
to enter plural marriage in those days, and I do
not know as anybody would have done any better
than Emma did under the circumstances. I think
Emma always regretted having any hand in
getting us into such trying circumstances. But
she need not have blamed herself for that, in
the least, for it would have been the same with
or without her consent, and I have never repen-
ted the act that made me a plural wife. It has
been to me like an anchor cast within the veil.
It gave me a hope that was like a rod of iron to
cling to while wading through heavy mists of
hatred and persecution. And I could say truly:

"I've a hope that will not fall,
It reaches far within the veil,
Which hope is like an anchor,
Oh, that's the hope for me!"

	Yes, that is the hope for me. It will never
perish, and when thorns have been strewn in
my pathway beneath my feet, and dark clouds
have gathered over my head, this hope has
cheered me on my way. I have often locked
back with joy and thanksgiving that I listened
to the "still, small voice that whispered to my
soul." The door is open—enter! It may look
dark, dreary and desolate, but peace, joy and
exaltation lie beyond. The longer I live, and
the more knowledge and understanding I get
pertaining to the principles of the eternal
worlds, the more I rejoice in the one act of my
life that made me the wife of Joseph Smith,
and bound me to him for time and all eternity.
I feel perfectly secure under his guardianship. I
know he was a prophet of God, and I know that
he received the revelation on celestial marriage
years before it was written, and it was through
him that the revelation was given making
known the baptising for the dead, and through
him many other points of doctrine were reveal-

[Column 2]
ed. He organized the Relief Societies, also the
Young Men's and Young Ladies' Societies, and
these revelations of Joseph Smith's are the rock
on which this Church is built, and it cannot be
shaken. It is as firm and immovable as the
mighty rocks that form the mountains with
which we are surrounded. The principles of
the Gospel are perfect and cannot be confounded.
Mankind is weak and imperfect, they may be
shaken, and perchance some may fall, but God's
work will never fail.
	Then let those who love a lie better than the
truth have the desires of their hearts. Let
them cherish falsehood and hide themselves in
its subtle threads. Let them build for them-
selves a foundation of quicksand, and a platform
of cobwebs. They will see, sooner or later, that
it will melt from under their feet as the dew
wastes before the morning sun. Let them heap
reproach upon my head, and scoff at the order
of celestial marriage, what do I care? it does not
hurt me in the least. I rejoice in my religion,
and I appreciate the blessings that I enjoy as a
Latter-day Saint.
	I have borne the contempt and sneers of the
world for years, and I can still bear them. My
hope is buoyant, and I fear nothing that the
enemy of righteousness can do. Let them fight
the truth, trample it in the dust, besmear it
with their filth, yet truth, eternal truth, will
rise bold and unblushing, in spite of all opposi-
tion. This is my testimony to all the world,
and it is true, whether they receive it or not.
There may be a few who will receive it, and re-
joice in the privileges and blessings that God
has bestowed upon His people in the last days.
For my part I am not ashamed of my religion;
I love every part and portion of it. Neither am
I ashamed of my name, nor would I be even if
it was,

'EMILY DOW PARTRIDGE SMITH YOUNG, ETC.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 165


LETTER VII.

TO MRS. SARAH A. CANNON.

DEAR SARAH:
	Munich, where we have just been visiting, is
where the two brothers, John Q. and Abram H.
Cannon, were when John Q. first came to Ger-
many, and I was much interested in all I could
learn about their mission here, the places they
traveled in, and so forth; how Abram used to
laugh at John Q's. peculiar pronounciation
of the German words. He took his turn this
time in laughing at me. There are many things
here to remind us of Abram, among them
some five or six hymns in the German hymn
book. I had to come to Germany to learn that
our brother was a poet.	*	*	*
	I have seen many beautiful pictures since I
came to Europe; some of the finest works by
the best masters, and I have enjoyed them more
than words can express. In the galleries where
I have been were students copying and studying
the different subjects. I have wished so many
times since I came here that I could sketch;
every day I see some lovely spot that I would
like to keep forever in remembrance.
	From the windows of the office here in Bern,
there is a beautiful view; the River Aare runs
just below, and sloping on the opposite bank is a
high, grass covered hill, dotted with pretty
Swiss cottages. I could never tire of looking at
this scene. The Aare is a very beautiful
river.	*	*	*	*	*	*
		Yours affectionately,
							ANNIE.
	BERN, Jan. 27th, 1884.


LETTER VIII.

TO MRS. BELL M. SEARS.

DEAR BELLE:
	Since I last wrote you everything has gone on
as usual. We are both quite well, and there is
not much change in the daily routine, while we
are in Barn, except an occasional invitation to
spend an evening with some of our people.
	John Q. is just about to start out on a trip
through the Central Swiss mission, though it
will not be a very long journey. Of course you
heard that we had expected to come home, then
were suddenly informed we were not to go.
	The sisters here had made every preparation
to give us a farewell surprise party, so we were
not the only ones who were disappointed,
though they declared they felt like having the
party as an expression of their delight that we
had to stay.
	It is most lovely weather here, now, just like
spring time, and so pleasant to walk over the
hills and down by the river. We can get a
charming view of the mountains, and they are
indeed lovely; crowned while with snow, and
glittering in the sunshine, with the bluest of
skies above them, and verdant hills beneath.
This is a very picturesque, odd looking city, yet
it is very attractive to me. There are such de-
lightful walks in every direction, and wherever
the eye rests, there is a most beautiful scene.
	Yet I often think that there is no pleasure in
traveling or seeing the world compared with the
pleasure of being with our loved ones. We can
not have too much of the society of those we
love, and only too soon separations come with-
out our bringing them about ourselves.
	With great love for all at home.	*	*	*
								ANNIE.
	BERN, Feb. 12th, 1884.


LETTER IX. 

BERN, Feb. 29th, 1884

MY DEAR MOTHER: 
	For several days we have been saying, on the
20th we must write to mother, sure, and we
have lost no opportunity to inform everyone
that this month our mother will have a birth-
day, which is indeed quite an event in our fam-
ily. How I wish I could be with you to day,
and enjoy the sweet pleasure of your company.
I have been wondering, this morning, how you
would celebrate the day. I hope, however, It
may be a happy, cloudless day for you, and
that it is only the beginning of many happy
years that are to follow. 
	John Q and myself are both in excellent
health, and enjoying ourselves splendidly. John
Q. returned from his trip through the Central
Swiss Conference last Tuesday. He had a very
pleasant time	*	*	To-morrow he
starts off again into the East Swiss Conference
to make some changes there and visit those
branches. I am very glad that he can now get
time to be out among the people more, and a-
way from the office work, though it is very
lonely for me when he is away. He is going
among all the Swiss branches, and perhaps into
the German, we cannot tell until some definite
work is begun concerning emigration.
	Concerning masque balls, I quite agree with
you; not that I know anything wrong about
them myself, for I never attended one, but sim-
ply because I think a prejudice against them was
born in me, and I always rather encouraged that
prejudice.
	We read the papers with much interest, es-
pecially the parts pertaining to the Utah legis-
lation. Even here, in this remote region, there
is much persecution among the Saints, and it


[Column 1]
all seems to originate from ignorance and mal-
ice.
	Three cases lately have come to our notice
where the persecution was put upon a poor, de-
fenceless woman, actuated by nothing more nor
less than spite. One sister here has been very
sick, so low that her recovery was thought to be
doubtful. She was taken to the hospital, where
she received [---] nursing and food, her ailment
being such that she did not require a doctor,
only good nursing was necessary. Here she im-
proved in health quite rapidly, when, through
some of her friends calling to see her, it became
known that she was a Mormon, in one way and
another, they slighted and persecuted her after
that, and finally brought her a paper to sign,
which paper said she was to declare herself for-
ever more against the Mormons, and promise
never to have anything more to do with them; if
she signed this she might stay, if not she had to
go, and though she was not able to leave her
bed, and had no comfortable place to go to, she
left them. When she came here to tell us, and
I saw how her poor knees trembled, and how
weak and emaciated she looked, it made my
heart ache; how could they be so heartless to a
fellow creature? I would'nt test anyone, were
he my bitterest enemy, so cruelly as that, and
she is a good, honest woman, with nothing in
the world against her but her faith.
	Another case occurred in Neuchatel. We have
in that city only three members; a woman and
her little family of two children. Here the
priest, a pretended minister of the gospel, one
who chooses for a text words from that Holy
Book, where charity is so beautifully taught, has
persecuted this poor woman most unmercifully.
He used his influence against her with the peo-
ple, who gave her work, so that he cut off her
only means of sustaining herself and family,
and then persuaded the people, from whom she
rented her room, to drive her cut; this they
could not do just yet as she had paid in advance,
but she is to go as soon as her time is up. In
the mean time she can get no work and no one
will hellp her, so bitterly has the priest worked
against her He went to her and tried to per-
suade her from her belief, and failing in this be-
came so enraged that he actually struck her, and
said she would be driven from the town, for
they wanted no Mormons there. What she will
do I cannot tell. I hope her oldest girl can be
emigrated, then she might be some assistance to
her mother.
	There are many cases of poverty and want a-
mong our people here, but not so much persecu-
tion as I had really expected, though when
cases do come they are usually very heartless
and cruel, such as the ones I have cited.
	I was quite astonished to see in the JUVENILE
a sketch from Sister Atwood's pen. When did
she start out in the literary field? I should think
she might facor the EXPONENT with some of
her articles.
	To-night we have a Relief Society meeting,
and to-morrow night some of the young folks
are going to have a concert here, so you see we
have our little pastimes among ourselves, and
enjoy ourselves very much together. Some of
the girls are very good singers, and I like very
much to hear their Alpine melodies; they are so
pretty, and would delight you I know. If Louie
could hear them she would quickly catch the
tune, and "yodel" like a native, but I am so dull
about picking up tunes that I don't suppose I
ever shall learn them. We have been having
a spell of wet weather lately, and very little
sunshine the last week, but according to the pa-
pers we have been remarkably blessed here in
comparison to what other towns have suffered.
Give my love to father and all the family.
	Remember me to all your lady friends, who's
kindly mention me, and give my love to my
dear sisters, their families and to Louie and my
darling boy.
	For yourself dear mother, accept the fend love
of your daughter, who thinks of ou ever, and
prays continually for your happiness and wel-
fare.					Lovingly,
								Annie


166	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿PRIDE AND DRESS. 

	In looking around and  witnessing the ex-
travagance in dress that is obtaining among
many of our young people, and listening to
young ladies talk about dress, I am often re-
minded of the Nephites of old, how they be-
came proud in their hearts and lifted up be-
cause of their fine apparel one above another;
how the rich felt themselves better than their
poor brothers and sisters; also how the judg-
ments of God were poured out upon them be-
cause of these things. There seems to be a
great similarity between their condition then
and ours at the present day, for it is clearly
apparent to all thinking persons that we are
fast drifting into that same state of pride and
folly for which they were chastened. Some
are lifted up in their own estimation because of
their riches, and "class distinction" is fast gain-
ing ground.
	I sometimes fear that we will have to be chas-
tened in order to humble us and compel us to
feel after the Lord. He has said, "Thou shalt 
have no other God before me," and He will not
always bear with those who make a god of the
things of this world. Many of our sisters, the
young ladies especially, seem to think of very
little else than how to adorn their bodies to
present a beautiful appearance, yet they would
be shocked were you to tell them that dress
was their god. But it is verily true that that
which occupies most of our thoughts, that
which we love and delight to reflect upon, is
indeed our god, although we may not realize
the fact. Whenever our mind or time is so ta-
ken up with the adornment of our bodies that
we have not full time to attend to all our meet-
ings and perform every duty pertaining to our
religion, then we are wasting our time and en-
ergies on that wherein there is no profit, and
neglecting that which is of special importance
to us, thereby committing sin in not living up 
to the great privileges our Father has given to 
His daughters in this our day. He has given
us all the talents, reason, judgment, strength 
of body and mind, which we possess, and re-
quires us to use them in His service, and not
in the gratification of our own selfish, proud
natures. What fashionable young lady has
any time to devote to religious purposss? All
can plainly see they have none whatever. Now, 
God's Kingdom must be built up by mortals
here on the earth, and it is equally binding up-
on all the human family to take part in this 
great labor; and as it must be done by some of 
His children, we can see that they who shirk 
their duties must merit the displeasure of their
Father in heaven, as well as being cut off from 
the reward which will eventually be given to 
the diligent and faithful laborers. 
	This life is very short to all, and especially
so to some; then how foolish it does appear for
mortal beings to use their energies for the grat-
ification and pleasure of these earthly taberna-
cles, which will soon be laid in the grave and
crumble to dust, instead of striving for that
which will adorn, make lovely, pure and god-
like our spirits, which are destined to live for-
ever. 
	All should have pride enough to dress in a 
neat and becoming manner, and to do this
would occupy but a small portion of our time, 
but the pride that would make us vain of our
looks and dress, or lift us up in our own esti-
mation above our poorly dressed sisters is sin-

[Column 2]
ful in the extreme, and the Lord will, sooner
or later, humble those who indulge in such
pride. Subduing our wills and the pride of 
our hearts is the deepest and hardest lesson
that mortals have to learn, says Helen Mar
Whitney, and we cannot begin too early to 
learn this important lesson, for we "came not
to do our own will, but the will of our Father
in heaven;" and He has told us that He loves
the meek and the humble, and we certainly, 
even the youngest, desire the love of our Hea-
venly Parent. We should pray constantly that
we may love God and His Gospel more than 
anything else in this world, then if we have 
the love of God in our hearts there will be no
room for the love of dress and fashion; our 
thoughts will dwell on nobler themes, and our 
conversation will be profitable, for "Out of the 
abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh."
						MARY F. 
	Written for the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 11th 
Ward.


A CIRCULAR

TO THE YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVE-
MENT ASSOCIATIONS OF THE CACHE
VALLEY STAKE OF ZION.

	[This circular was prepared expressly for the young
ladies of Cache Valley Stake, but thinking it appropri-
ate for all the organizations, we take pleasure in giv-
ing it to the public through the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.]
—ED.

DEAR SISTERS:
	In reviewing our work of the past year, we
find improvement has been made by many of
the Associations, and we hope to make very
great improvement in the future if we profit
by the experience gained. Then let us, in the
new year just opening before us, renew our ex-
ertions, and strive more diligently to accom-
plish the tasks appointed, that at its close we
may feel better satisfied and better qualified to 
fulfil our duties.
	Your faith and works are earnestly desired
in the cause of Mutual Improvement. The
Presidency of the Church, in its wisdom, has
organized these Associations that the young
people in Zion may have an opportunity of  ac-
quiring knowledge and learning how to use it,
that they may become acquainted with the
writings of inspired men, with the science of
theology, and the truths found in science, his-
tory, literature and art.
	The first step in this work of improving our-
selves, is to learn the will of our Father in
Heaven.  We may do this by reading careful-
ly the Bible, Church works and other good
 books; by listening to the instructions of His
authorized servants; by being humble, prayer-
ful, and obedient to those in authority; by
seeking good society, and finding pleasure in
the faithful performance of all duties which de-
volve upon us as daughters of Zion.
	Search the Scriptures and Church Works,
inform ourselves that we may be able to de-
fend the principles of our faith, and teach the
glorious truth to younger brothers and sis-
ters. It is not our mission to go abroad and
labor among the nations of the earth, but we
have a great and noble work to do at home.
Let us not waste time in wishing and waiting
to do some great thing afar off, but secure fa-
vor in the sight of God by observing and doing
the little duties that lie near us.
	Each officer and member of the Associa-
tions in this Stake is particularly requested to 
observe and execute the following sugges-
tions:
	Be industrious; idleness promotes iniquity.
It is written, "An idle brain is the devil's work-
shop."
	No girl should consider herself properly ed-
ucated until she has mastered some employ-


[Column 1]
﻿ment or accomplishment by which she can gain
a living, should she have occasion to support
herself; hence, every girl should have a knowl-
edge of housework, and do such work cheerful-
ly, for much of the happiness depends upon it;
she should learn the art of housekeeping in all
its departments; she should have a knowledge
of arithmetic that her accounts may be kept
accurately, of spelling and writing, that her
communications may be neatly and correctly
represented.
	Encourage the study of vocal and instrumen-
tal music. It makes home more pleasant, and
meetings more attractive. It has a refining,
softening influence with the wayward, and
reaches them when words fail. Learn to read
well; this is an accomplishment within the
reach of all.
	Order is a necessary virtue; there can be no
comfort without it. To have a place for things
and not keep them in it, is like having wise
laws and paying no regard to them. Cultivate
order and method.
	The deportment of the older children of a
family is of great importance to the younger
members. Especially is the position of eldest
daughter one of responsibility. Let her then
take double pains to be amiable, wise and in-
dustrious, loving and obedient to parents, cour-
teous and polite to all; but particularly to the
aged.
	Read books which treat of women. Every
woman should have a knowledge of herself, for
in such knowledge is her safety. Guard sacred-
ly your virtue by purity of thought and act-
ion. There will be no brighter jewel in your
crown.
	Inasmuch as the Presidency of the Church
have, at different times, expressed their disap-
proval of round dancing, the officers and mem-
bers of these Associations are recommended to
abstain from it.
	Observe the counsel of your presiding offi-
cers in regard to conducting parties and enter-
tainments. Avoid being drawn into fashions
and habits of dancing which are unbecoming.
Write for your manuscript paper.
	Never speak lightly of things we hold sa-
cred. Attend Sabbath School and Meeting.
When the Sacrament is administered, partake
of it humbly in remembrance of our Savior.
	Never be rude and boisterous. Always a-
void talking, laughing and whispering in meet-
ing or where it will disturb others.
	Avoid backbiting and criticising authorities.
Avoid slang expressions.
	Cultivate faith, charity and mercy. Tell
one another in a kind, sisterly manner of
faults.
	Commit to memory sentences, stanzas, and
paragraphs from any good work.
	Be truthful in thought, word and deed.
	Urge young men to abstain from the use of
tobacco and intoxicating liquors. Beware of
those who have no faith in God, or who speak
lightly of sacred ordinances.
	Pay your donations to the Deseret Hospital
promptly every month. It is conducted by
women for the benefit of the afflicted, and
should be sustained by the sisters.
	Temple donations should be made in the
name of the giver, and not in the name of the
society.
Learn and teach proper methods of ventila-
tion, bathing, etc., for good health is necessary
to enable one to study, work and life.
	(Officers.) Hold your meetings regularly
and promptly at the appointed hour. If you
are unable to attend, send an excuse. Some of
the officers should always be present.
	In conjoint sessions the Priesthood should al-
ways preside. Devote a part of each meeting
to bearing testimonies. Have, if possible, one
or more representatives present at our confer-
ences, and at the. officers’ meetings, in Logan
Tabernacle, at the same day and hour as
(Column two)
Priesthood meeting.
	The Secretary should keep a roll and a cor-
rect record of meetings; should give one or
more sentences in the speakers’ exact words,
and be careful to give the purport of what is
said and done.
Keep the minutes copied in a suitable book.
If the Secretary is unable to do this, she
should resign that another may be appointed
who can attend to the work. Keep a correct
account of the money received and paid out,
so that the financial report will be correct.
The money you have paid out, added to the
money you have on hand, must equal the
whole amount received, then your account is
said to balance; if it does not balance there is
some mistake.
	Look at the reports for semi-annual reports,
and see that a correct record of all items men-
tioned thereon is kept. Fill the reports
promptly and return at specified time.
	If the Secretary does not know how to keep
the books, let her seek information from some
one in the ward, or bring the book to the offi-
cers’ meeting, and the Secretary will teach
her.
	Members, carry out the instructions of your
officers.	
	The Programme Committee will find profit-
able lessons to bring before the members in the
following works:
	Bible.—Daniel, first and second chapters;
Proverbs third and fourth chapters; Matthew,
third, fifth, sixth, seventh, thirteenth aud
twenty- fifth chapters.
Book of Mormon.—Books of Ether, Mosiah,
Alma; Third Book of Nephi; Book of Moroni,
and Second Book of Nephi, second chapter.
	Voice of warning. Key to Theology, Spen-
cer’s Letters, Preceptor, and in the Faith Pro-
moting Series.
	Use a portion or all of the money made at
entertainments and parties to purchase books
for your Library. Send the money with a list
of the books you already have, and those you
want, to Ida I. Cook, Logan, and a committee
will complete the list and order the books for
you. By ordering a number they can be had
cheaper.
	Trusting that you may have profitable and
interesting meetings, and much pleasure in the
great Work of Mutual Improvement, and
wishing you a Happy New Year, wo are your
co-laborers and Sisters in the Gospel,
					Harriet A. Preston,
					Ida I. Cook,
					Kennie B. Caine,
Presidency Y.L.M.I.A. Cache Valley Stake.
	Logan, Utah, January 1st, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 167


﻿IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, at Hyde Park, Feb. 17th, 1884, Louisa King,
wife of William Beddingfield. Deceased was born July
28th, 1827, at Allsaints, Suffolk, England. She came to
Hyde Park at its first settlement; has been a member of
the Hyde Park Relief Society since its organization
and acted in the capacity of teacher for the same until
prevented by the sickness that terminated her existence
here.
	She was loved and respected by all her acquaintances,
those who have known her since childhood testify to
her pure and exemplary life.
	She leaves a husband and a host of relatives to mourn
her loss. She has been the mother of two children, who
both died in infancy. She has been a great sufferer for
many years, but passed away peaceful.
							M. E. GRIFEETH,
							Secretary Relief Society.


[Column 1]
CAROLINE B. CROSBY.

	Obituary notice of the death of Mother Crosby, who
died on the 17th of February, 1884, aged seventy-seven
years, one month and twelve days.
	Caroline Barnes Crosby was the daughter of Willard

[Column 2]
and Dolly Stevens Barnes, born in the town of War-
wick, Franklin County, Massachusetts, on the 5th of
January, 1807.	
	Her parents removed to Dunham, Canada East, when
she was three years and a half old, where she was reared
and lived until she was married, which took place on
the 26th of October, 1824. She, with her husband, then
removed to Wendell, Franklin Co., Mass, where she was
baptized the following January, 1835, by Elder Samuel
Bent, into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints: Up to the time of her baptism she had been a
member of the Church of England. On the 2nd day of
November she, with her husband, started for Kirtland,
Ohio, where they arrived in the fore part of January
1846, after a cold and tedious journey. There her hus-
band worked on the temple to pay for their board until
the temple was dedicated. And on the 14th of Decem-
ber following their son Alma was born, and living in a
cold, unfinished room, she suffered from much sickness
during the winter; during the season following there
was much apostatizing from the Church, and also very
hard times for living. In the month of June, 1838, with
her husband, she made a visit of five month's duration
with her sister, the wife of Brother Addison Pratt, in
the town of Chautauqua, State of New York, and in the
month of November of the same year, in company with
Brother and Sister Pratt and family, started west; came
on to Putman County, Indiana, and hearing of the ex-
pulsion of the Saints from Missouri, and not knowing
where they would locate, stayed there until the month
of June, 1842, then moved on to Nauvoo, where her
husband worked on the Temple till it was finished suffic-
iently to receive endowments, and with her husband she
went through all the ordinances performed in the Tem-
ple there; she also became a member of the Relief Socie-
ty in Nauvoo, and suffered much sickness and destitu-
tion, witnessing, also, many of the scenes of mobocracy
and violence inflicted upon the Saints there, and late in
the fall of 1846 her husband, by his own labor, having
succeeded in getting a new wagon prepared, and not
having a team of his own, by the kindness of brethren
in the Church, were hauled along by their teams up to
the town of Benton's post, State of Iowa; there they
lived till the spring of 1848, then having obtained a team
by very hard labor among the Gentiles at low wages,
they moved on to Winter Quarters on the Missouri riv-
er.
	There they joined Amasa Lyman's company and
moved on to Salt Lake Valley, arriving there on the 12th
of October of the same year. They resided in Salt Lake
Valley till the spring of 1850, then, being appointed at
the April Conference with others, in connection with
Brother A. Pratt and his family, went on a mission to
the South Pacific Islands. They set sail from San Fran-
cisco in the month of August, arriving on the Islands
in September following. The sailing on the ocean did
not agree with her, she being sea-sick during both pas-
sages, coming and going. She resided on the island of
Tubual during the mission with her sister (Pratt) and
family, her time being occupied, in connection with her
sister, in teaching schools of the native children. But
being so much advanced in years she and her sister did
not learn the native language so as to speak it as fluent-
ly as the younger members of the families. She took
several of the native children to live with her and
taught them English. The natives of the Islands were
very kind to all the missionaries, furbishing them with
all necessary food and provisions while they remained
on the islands.
	In the month of May, 1852, they sailed from the Is-
land of Tubual to the largest of the Islands, that of Ta-
hiti, where the French had possessions and exercised ju-
risdiction over all the islands. There her husband
worked at his trade and earned sufficient to pay their
passage back to San Francisco, Cal., Sister Pratt and
family having preceded them on the return homeward,
landing again in San Franscisco in September, 1852, hav-
ing been gone two years from that city. Her husband then
carried on a farm for one season in San Jose Valley, Cal.
after which they went back to San Francisco, where
they lived about two years, her husband working at his
trade. In November, 1855, they sailed from San Fran-
cisco along the coast of California to the landing of
San Pedro, thence to San Bernadino in Southern Cali-
fornia. There they resided two years, in the mean-
time making a nice place and a comfortable home, but
in consequence of the call of the Presidency of the
Church to the Saints in San Bernadino to come away
from there and gather to Utah, they, with the rest, left
their pleasant home there, which they were compelled
to sell at a cheap rate, and gathered up to the Valleys
of the Mountains.


S﻿tarting on New Year’s Day, 1858. from San Bernardi-
no, and arrived on the first day of April at Johnson’s
Fort in Iron Co., where they rented land for one sea-
son and farmed. Then in November of ’58 came to Bea-
ver, Beaver Co., where Brother and Sister Crosby have
lived continuously up to the time of her death.
	Sister Crosby was a faithful and devoted member of
the Relief Society in Beaver, acting as a teacher in that
organization for a considerable length of time. Many
a day has she travelled the streets of Beaver for the pur-
pose of exhorting her slsters to faithfulness in the prin-
ciples of the Gospel of Chrlst. She also made four
journeys to the St. George Temple with her husband to
do work for her dead, and was baptized for about one
hundred of her deceased relatives, and received endow-
ments for fifteen. She was respected for her liberality
and charity to the poor, and has passed away in.the
hope of rising in the first resurrection to eternal glory
and a crown.

LINES COMPOSED ON THE DEATH OF SISTER CROSBY
	BY HER HUSBAND, J. CROSBY.

Farewell, my kind and faithful friend,
The	partner of my youth,
Forty-nlne long years we have been
United in the truth.

And now my work on earth is done,
And I am called away,
So I must go, my time has come,
I can no longer stay.

I go because my Father calls,
His voice we must obey;
Farewell, my kindred, friends, and all,
You, too, must past away.

This is the doom that’s fixed for all
The hosts of Adam's race;
They must put off this mortal coil 
To see the Father’s face.

Then we can rest in peace and wait
Till Michael’s trumpet sounds,
Then with the faithful Saints awake
To glory and a crown.

Be faithful then, beloved friends,
And do not weep for me,
In faith hold on until the end,
And great our joy will be.

When Jesus in the clouds descends
With hosts of angels, too,
Then we'll arise with all our friends
In celestial glory too.

Oh! the joy, no tongue can tell
The pleasure then so sweet;
Husbands and wives their loved ones hail,
And will each other greet.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas it has pleased the Great Creator to take un-
to himself, after a long and useful life, our much loved
sister, Caroline Crosby, and,
	Whereas it is fitting that she be held in honorable re-
membrance,
	Therefore, be it resolved by the Ladies' Relief Society
of Beaver City, That while we mourn, not as those who
have no hope, yet we realize that in the death of Sister
Crosby we have lost a valued assistant, the poor a
friend and her family a wise and loving counselor.
	Resolved, That we extend our deepest sympathy to
all the members of her family.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be put upon the rec-
ords of the Relief Society, and a copy thereof be sent to
the family of our dear sister, and to the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT.				DELILAH F. COX,
						S. M. Dell,
						HARRIET E. SHEPHERD,
										Committee.


168	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT;

	It becomes my painful duty to announce the death of
Sister Karen Westenskow, beloved wife of Brother
Hans Westenskow, chief musician of this place. She
was born March 21st. 1839, died March 2nd, 1884.
	The departed sister had acted as a teacher for about
four years, and as treasurer for the last two years in the
Relief Society in this place; she was faithful in all her


duties, and died in the full faith of the Gospel. Peace
be to her ashes.
				Your sister in the Gospel,
						ANNIE R. KELLER, Secretary.

	DIED, at Curtis, Arizona, March 7th., 1884, Martha
Curtis, wife of Bishop Monroe Curtis.
	Sister Curtis was first counselor to the president of
Relief Society of the Curtis Ward, and died as she had
lived, in the faith of the Gospel and the hope of a glor-
ious resurrection. She had obeyed and honored the law
of celestial marriage, and no doubt will come forth to
enjoy a celestial glory. We condole with the bereaved
family.								W. EAST.

	DIED, in Salt Lake City, March 18, Celeste C. Riser,
daughter of Elder George C. and Christina Riser, born
in this city, September 18, 1860.
	Deceased was a very gentle and amiable girl; quiet
and unassuming in manner, and was dearly beloved by
her friends and relatives. Her early and, as it were, un-
timely death, has almost crushed her father, who loved
her very tenderly, and as she had lost her mother many
years before, he felt a more special nearness to her.
	It is always sad when the young and beautiful die,
and yet we do not always know, but they are taken in
mercy from evil to come. The funeral services were
conducted by Bishop Kesler in the 16th Ward Meeting
House; President A. M. Cannon and Joseph E. Taylor
addressed the large congregation assembled to do honor
to the dead.


CORRECTION.

	A misprint occurred in the article by Dr. E.
S. Barney, headed Some Interesting Facts. It
should read 3 grains of Iodine, instead of 3
quarts. An h should be used instead of k in
two places, as, duch, and stone shonld be stove.


﻿SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
ris building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
	SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS, & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYES, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.

SALT LAKE CITY., Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	CLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE.
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

