VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1884	NO. 17.


[Column 1]

TO SISTER ELIZA.

Sister Eliza, how shall I convey
The wishes that surround your natal day?
Or voice the love, the vast appreciation
That prompted this, your birthday celebration?
My inability had disinclined me
To undertake the present task assign'd me,
Knowing that abler ones, and older, too,
Could best bestow a tribute worthy you;
Yet if I fail to fitly grace my theme,
I trust you'll still accept my warm esteem.

Thousands of Saints to-day would fain express
Their recognition of your usefulness;
Their voices, as "the sound of many waters,"
Would own you first of Zion's veteran daughters;
Yea, one and all to you this place accord,
Assigned you by the servants of the Lord,
Nor could our brethren have ordained a wiser,
Or naturally, more able organizer.
You've led your sisters on in righteousness,
And systematically soothed distress;
Have formed societies whose purpose pure
Has helped the helpless and relieved the poor;
Nor have you toiled and traveled thus for gain,
Nor have your faithful labors been in vain.
In Zion's stakes, through all their breadth and length,
Lo! Zion's daughters have increased in strength,
Till with the Priesthood of "High Heaven" they stand
Shoulder to shoulder like a marshalled band,
Willing and waiting, disciplined and true,
Ready indeed the will of God to do.
Our little ones have also had a share
Of your unceasing and iustructive care;
Many the blossoms that we trust will bring
A glorious and abundant harvesting.
Even under God this state of things is due,
In a great measure, to your efforts true;
And yet to-day, in spite of cares so weighty,
Body and mind, you're sound and staunch at eighty.
You number fourscore years, without a doubt,
Pardon the pride that makes me tell it out;
I know you're not ashamed of being old,
Or else your age you never would have told.
Why is it some who've sense commit the blunder
Of underating "Eather Time," I wonder?
Why should we wish his traces could be hidden,
Why treat him coldly, like a guest unbidden?
'Tis just as well for folks to condescend
To take Time's hand and own him as a friend.
Doubtices he's partial to a special few,
And thus it is he's gently dealt with you;
Long may he favor you as heretofore,
At least another twenty years or more,
Unless of life you weary, may you see
Enough of time to make a century.

Fourscore to-day! Oh! what you must have seen;
A wonderful experience yours has been;
Honor'd indeed to be the mate, the wife,
Of one whose sacred mission cost his life;
Consort of Joseph, martyr, saint and seer,
Whose memory unto all of us is dear;
How much more so to those we cannot tell
Whose privilege it was to know him well;
Who were by him beloved, and to him sealed
By the grand principle from heaven revealed.
Rare courage they possessed, (the faithful few)
Who entered into covenants so new,
Who, while their aim as falling snow was pure,
Had ev'ry kind of slander to endure.
To wrestle, not alone with vain tradition,
But with vindictive, murderous opposition,
Through deepest waters truly have you past,
Through persecution's scathing, fiery blast,
Endured the days when our loved leader fell
To glut men's malice and the spleen of hell,
Yet firm your faith, e'en while yonr heart strings bled,
For Christ yon knew was still "our living head."

Soon as for you the dearest ties were riven
Lo! from their rightful homes the Saints were driven,
To seek upon the pathless prairies wide

[Column 2]

The common rights their country had denied;
Their only shelter and their only home,
Were canvas walls; or heaven's vaulted dome.
Deprived of all the luxuries left behind
They murmured not, but all their strength combined
To reach the distant, designated spot,
Where mobs no more against their peace would plot.
Mighty aud strong God raised them up a man
Of dauntless courage to direct and plan,
As Moses led the Hebrews through the sea
So Brigham Young (a man of destiny)
Was called to guide God's people day by day
And lead them in "a solitary way."
The sense of freedom so supremely sweet
Invigorated weary hearts and feet.
And thus they reached the valleys of the West,
And 'mid the "everlasting hills" found rest;
Yet whilst they journey'd on the lonesome plains
The camp of Isr'el sang your cheering strains,
Such glowing words that bade them courage take
To bear their burdens for the Gospel's sake.
And so for years your glorious gift of song
Has helped the weary and the faint along.

One incident 'mong recollections rife
I fain wonld mention of my early life;
Grant me forbearance while I thus recall
One epoch more eventful than them all.
Auspicious time, when truth's eternal light
Flooded my soul with its effulgence bright.
Truth found me seeking it when but a child,
Happy was I to find it undefiled;
But those I fondly hoped would share my joy
Daily endeavored to my faith destroy.
So ridiculed by all and frowned upon,
These words of Sister Snow's oft cheered me on,
"My heart is fixed I know in whom I trust."
Immortal lines, they cannot, will not rust.
Full oft I ponder'd them within my heart,
Till of my daily thoughts they formed a part,
And ever as I conned them o'er and o'er,
So ev'ry time my faith was strengthen'd more,
Nor can I help but wish their anthor blest,
Whose high resolves my youthful mind impressed,
Who "touched my heart' and wakened the desire
That God would thus my soul inspire.

How shall we e'er forget that hymn of praise
Familiar to the Saints of Latter-days,
Even "O my Father?" The exalting strain
Uplifts the spirit into heaven again,
And makes us recollect our royal birth,
However humble is our lot on earth.
Even as incense doth the song ascend
When Zion's singers' sweetest voices blend,
And as we list to the triumphant swell
We feel that "Zion prospers, all is well."

But time would fail me, nor do I desire,
To count the fruits of Zion's earliest lyre,
Enough that you have used the talent given.
And rendered back the interest due to heaven.
Ah! who shall prostitute a gift divine
To laud themselves alone in every line?
If God to one or all a gift imparts
Give Him the praise with undivided hearts;
Give Him the glory, as 'tis right we should,
By helping up the struggling multitude.
And this indeed excites our admiration
That Sister Snow has used the concentration
Of mind and body, heart and soul and brain
To build up Zion and to right maintain.
Devotion to the truth, yea, consecration,
Aloof from love of public estimation,
Has won for her a more enduring crown
Than present praise or cheaply bought renown.
	S. L. City, Jan. 21st., 1884.


[Column 1]
A BIRTHDAY ADDRESS.

	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, the anniversary
of your 80th birthday is assumed to be suffic-
iently momentous to be worthy a social reun-

[Column 2]
ion of friends, many of whom have been long
tried, and with you have borne the heat and
burden of opposition to the great innovation of
the latter-days.
	We are well aware that mnch demonstration
is not congenial to your quiet, practical mode
of life. You prefer to be known by your
deeds, rather than by the eulogies of admiring
friends. But for an hour of social pleasure of
friend with friend, a more auspicious time than
your birthday we thought could not well be se-
lected. This evening we combine two pleas-
ures in one—the meeting of numerous friends
and the pleasure of pausing in this busy life of
ours to make special note of the natal day of
Zion's Poet—Laureate.
	Modesty is a gem becoming to the bosom of
all true women, and we know none prize it
more highly than yourself, yet we presume to-
night, and we shall hope not unpardonably, to
thus bring you to the front and review in your
presence some of your good works.
	Your life is contemporary with two of the
greatest events in the annals of modern his-
tory, namely, the growth of the American Re
public and the time when God has set His hand
to prune His vineyard for the last time. With
both you have identified yourself, and adorned
many events with poetic garb that will immor-
talize and hand them down to posterity. We
should not forget in our short panorama of
your life to-night the high praise which is due
your parents, for success in after life depends
much, very much, upon starting out aright.
Under their wise teaching and counsel an in-
tellectual soil was prepared, which was fertile
when the seed of truth was sown. And the
mystic skill of economy taught you by your
mother has stood you in good part, both in
your personal comfort and as a public teacher
of the science of life. Your high appreciation
of the Pearl of Great Price when you found
it was shown by the complete renunciation of
all worldly honors and emoluments, and even
the comforts of life, and in your counting every
sacrifice as without weight in the balance with
truth. The dauntless and undying heroism of
woman's love was exemplified in the choice of
your husband. The law of God, which gave
you perfect right to recognized wifehood, had
been long and deeply buried beneath the dark-
ness of many ages. But your souls were wed,
yours and Joseph's the Prophet, with the appro-
bation of the great Father of Light and sealed
by the authority and power of the holy Priest-
hood, which gave yon strength to live and love
in silence, regarding his presence and teachings
as a boon above all others. And when the
saddest of sad days came, when your husband
became a martyr for truth's sake, upon the al-
tar of a broken heart you burned the incense
of eternal vows, and with tear-stained eyes up-
lifted to heaven, cried, "To labor in thy vine-
yard, O Father, doing the work that Joseph
has given me, I consecrate my future life."
Thus we interpret your long and useful career
amoug the Saints of God. Yonr life's trials—
the death of your husband did not quench your
poetic fire, but through it you poured forth
your sorrow in accents which comforted your
own heart and the hearts of the Saints. Your
deep suffering made you a sympathizing friend
and wise counselor to many in the dark hour
of trial. As priestess in the House of God
many have received rich blessings under your
hands, and with lovlng hearts remember you
as a great mother in Israel.


[Column 1]
	As an organizer we find you holding the po-
sition you justly occupy as leader of the Lat-
ter-day Saint Women Associations. From the
time our late lamented Prest., Brigham
Young, called upon you to assist in reorganiz-
ing these charitable and far-reaching for good
societies, you have been unfaltering and untir-
ing in your labors until all Zion is one vast
map of organization, and no poor or destitute
need have it to say, "I know not where to go
for help." Your labors have not stopped in
providing for the temporal wants of the poor,
but the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Associations are organized all over the land
for the spiritual culture and the general in-
struction of those verging into the important
and holy positions of wifehood and mother-
hood. How can we estimate the value of your
numberless words of wise counsel given, which
like the circling waves from a pebble cast into
the middle of a great sea, widen and enlarge
until they touch the shore of posterity. And
your indefatigable spirit of organizing does not
stop with the youth of Zion, but reaches down
to cull the tender buds, fresh from the mater-
nal bosoms, to form the Primary Associations,
where the seeds of truth are sown in virgin
soil, and the twig is bent as it is desired to
grow. And thus the cycle of organization, as
a wheel within the greater wheel of the Priest-
hood, is completed, and no one in all Zion who
responds to the call need stand alone without
the pale of organization. Thus the bond of
everlasting love, as warp of the web into which
we are all woven as woof, forms us into one
harmonious family, which already, though so
small, is fast becoming the terror of the wicked
world.
	In the midst of all these labors poetic effu-
sions flash through the interstices of your
work, which is a grateful assurance to us that
the oil of life has not yet burned low, but, like
the wise virgin, you keep your lamp trimmed
and burning, awaiting the coming of the Great
Bridegroom.
	The journey to Palestine, which by permis-
sion you participated in, was an important
epoch in the world's history, which it little ap-
preciates, but we who know rejoice in and are
proud that a woman assisted in that great la-
bor of love for truth's sake. The mighty pow-
er of endurance you displayed in that exten-
sive journey, and your long life of incessant ac-
tivity is a monument of the divine truth of
the word of wisdom, which teaches to be tem-
porate in all things, and the value of system
and order in all the duties of life.
	We congratulate you that your life has been
permitted to so nearly span the era between
the planting of the last dispensation and the
final victory of truth over error. We know the
day of victory is near at our door and we earn-
estly pray, if it be the will of providence, that
your days may not be ended until truth be en-
throned, and its feet are firmly planted upon
the neck of error.
	Though "Party-zeal" with "Deceit and
Greed," and all their horde, are vigorously work-
ing to rob the women and all the truest Saints
of the Latter-day of their most sacred rights as
American born citizens, we pray you may yet
see the fulfillment of the promise which has
been revealed to you from heaven, that in-
vestigation, inquiry, truth and knowledge and
their adherents will gain the victory, because
they are stars of brilliant flame and shine for
the true heirs of this favored land of Joseph-

"There needs no sail for Zion's ship—
	Our foes may pause and wonder;
They move us on at every clip,
	And row their own crafts under."

	In conclusion, beloved chief of the sister-
hood of the Saints, permit us this night anew
to reassure you of our most earnest co-opera-
tion in all your labors in the interest of human-
ity, of our unwavering faith in your destiny.

[Column 2]
And our constant prayers are that your au-
tumnal days of life may lead into paths strewn
with flowers of fairest hue and sweetest frag-
rance and fruits of eternal flavor, springing
from the seeds sown by your arduous and glor-
ious toil on earth. Your life work we accept
as an example worthy of emulation by all your
contemporaries and posterity, and long may
you yet remain with us as a beacon warning off
danger, and as a High Priestess and faithful
watchwoman on the towers of Zion, guiding
and directing all to our Celestial Home.
					ROMANIA B. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 19th., 1884,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]

"We remained at Bishop Aaron Johnson's 
in Springville with his numerous family in
peace and good feeling with us all, until the
word of the Lord through President Brigham
Young was that the Saints might return to
their homes. I had watched for the smoke of 
our lovely city, which we had so cheerfully re-
signed to its fate, for we were determined to
lay it in ashes rather than leave our homes and
the fruits of our toil to fall into the hands of
our enemies, who, not content with driving us
from the borders of civilization, had followed
us into our mountain retreat. God had
changed the programme, the people, some of
them, were soon en route for our vacated city.
We had cheerfully made the sacrifice and He
had accepted it. As fast as was convenient
one family after another returned to the city,
and other places that had been vacated. The
conclusion was in my case that Martha Knight
Kimball and I should remain awhile in the
southern settlements, I was moved to Provo
and stayed there until September. The door-
yards were full of tall grass and the fruit trees
wern loaded with beautiful peaches and apples.
Sister Vilate (that blessed woman, a mother to
us all, when I think of her my heart swells
with gratitude) would give Bro. Kimball no
peace until he sent for me to return to the fam-
ily.
	Sarah Ann, Lucy, Mary H. and myself oc-
cupied the house that had been built for the el-
dest son William. I felt that I could do more
good at spinning and weaving for those who
needed it most, as all depended on their own
labor for clothing. In the evenings we pared
the fruit to dry. We spent the fall and winter
very pleasantly, four wives in one house, with
little children. This will seem like an anoma-
ly to our Gentile friends.
	"Early in the spring Howard Egan was sent
back to St. Louis to buy groceries and real nec-
essaries for family use. I gathered $5.00 and
sent back for carpet warp. Mary Kimball and
I had made the first rag carpet made in the
city. When the warm spring weather came
we "thinned out," and I went to live in the 17th
Ward, on the lot formerly owned by Hosea
C[-]shing, an adopted son of Bro. Kimball's.
My son Oliver had remained in Springville af-
ter I left there. He went freighting to Lower
California, and during his absence his wife cor-
responded with my eldest son George, who
held out great inducements for Oliver to take
his family and go back to St. Louis, Mo., and 
go into business with him in the woolen fac-
tory. The next spring he went East with Esquire
Wells who was going to England on a mission.
His wife was anxious he should go back, for
she had lost her faith in the Gospel. My
Agony of soul could not be told or written
when he left. I have never shed many tears
since, as the fountain was broken up."
	"Aunt Huldah boarded with me and taught
the 17th Ward school. I was alone with my
little boy Joseph, one out of nine children, and

[Column 2]

yet I lived. On the 27th of June Sisters Han-
nah T. King, Susan Schettler, Zina D. H.
Young and myself concluded to spend a por-
tion of that solemn day on Ensign Peak and
made the summit, prepared ourselves with re-
freshments, then rested ourselves, took our din-
ner and then built an altar of stone, carried
and piled up, around the altar we knelt and of-
fered up our prayers to God and thanks that He
had raised up a prophet in these last days and
the Gospel had been restored to the earth, and
that we had been of the few that had received
the truth. We sang and blest each other and
it seemed to us the spirit of the martyred pro-
phet, whose death we commemorated on that
sacred spot, was there and took cognizance of
our sacred honor to him. Several years after
I visited the sacred spot and the pile of stones
remained nearly as we left them."
	"I remained in the 17th Ward until the ap-
proach of winter, my labors were blest, I had
a good garden, as Bro. Campkin remarked, I
had the best crop that had ever been produced
on the lot. During all this time, however, I
never neglected any calls to visit the sick, the
dying, and the dead. I always took great
pains in preparing the dead beautifully for
their final rest, remembering what the Prophet
Joseph Smith had said, "dress your friends as
though they were going into the best of com-
pany." Never leave them with any part of
their clothing incomplete. I have no fear to
meet the many that I have helped to lay away.
When the winter came Bro. Kimball, to lessen
his expenses, gathered closer his numerous
family. Huldah B. and Harriet S. were in the
same house with me and our children. We
enjoyed ourselves and lived very harmonious
and quiet together. In the spring we were to
be again separated. My little son Joseph was
then eight years old. His father baptized him.
He bought a house and lot for me in the 16th
Ward, near to my brother's, Dimick B. Hunt-
ington, and on the 7th of April he sent for me
to go to his private room and gave me a bless-
ing and told me to write it and it should be
fulfilled, which I have realized to the letter.
When he had said all he wished to me, I said,
Bro. Kimball, when I make this move to-day I
shall have moved twenty-one times by your re-
quest, and I shall consider I am of age and
wish to remain in the 16th Ward for the fu-
ture."


KATE FIELD AND HER LECTURE.

	To show how little Bostonians know about
Mormons and their public buildings, we repub-
lish the following from the Woman's Journal,
but which first appeared in the Boston's Travel-
ler:
	Miss Kate Field repeated her lecture, "An
Evening with Dickens," in Salt Lake City,
for the benefit of the Mormon Hospital. She
spoke in the "Social Hall," a Mormon build-
ing, dedicated by Brigham Young,and is prob-
ably the first Gentile who ever stood on its plat-
form. Her audience were almost exclusively
Mormon, attentive, but unresponsive. Just
before the lecture began Governor Murray en-
tered, and his entrance created considerable re-
mark, the lines are so strongly drawn there be-
tween "Saint" and Gentile. When questioned
as to why he came, Governor Murray replied:
"I wanted to show my respect for Miss Field,
and I thought wherever she could afford to go I
could. Moreover, I wish to support everything
in Utah that is compatible with loyalty to the
government."


Pretty napkins for trays and fruit dishes are
of cream-colored momie cloth, with designs of
grapes, peaches, plums and apples, mingled
with their leaves. The work is either in Ken-
sington or etching style, and the napkins are
finished with a border of drawn work and a
knotted fringe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 131


A BIRTHDAY TRIBUTE

TO ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

What offering shall we bring
	That shall be fitting to this day!
Not merely ceremonial words
	That chill the warmth in what we'd say.

Nay, time hath caught away the veil
	Custom oft weaves as a disguise,
She better loves the simplest speech
	Wherein the heart's true meaning lies.

Earth—jewels rich and rare?
	The gift would fail its sweet intent;
To win those that in heaven shine
	Her whole life's labors have been spent.

Then shall we bring to her
	A wreath of fame, her hymns to praise?
Nay, this were little, for her brow
	So long hath worn the poet's bays.

Could some one wreathe in song
	A loftier theme than e'er was sung?
Nay, she hath heard harmonies roll
	Too rapturous sweet for mortal tongue.

A people's blessing, then,
	Upon her well loved name.
Yes, bring her this, for well she knows
	Her Father gives the same.

His people's greeting comes
	Throughout our land, from o'er the tide,
From out the hearts of faithful Saints
	Responsive echoes far and wide.

Thousands whom she hath met
	But [---], within a sacred place
Hold in sincerest, fondest love
	Remembrance of her name and face.

The cycle of her years,
	Like a rich golden cord, doth hold
Those precious works, whose value are
	Only by tongues celestial told.

Peace, joy, attend her path!
	May this day, through returning years,
Find every link in friendship's chain
	Around her in immortal spheres.

AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]

A SKATING PARTY.

	There were nine in our party that night fif-
teen years ago. Such a party! and such a night!
The moon had just past the full, and hovered
low over the eastern hills. Not a cloud in the
sky; each star shone clear, and in its brightness
seemed to stand alone in the blue firmament
that arched us over. It was so still, so calm,
so cold, and all was so white. The rising moon
shining on the spotless snow was met by a
thousand dancing lights, as radiant and lus-
trous as diamonds, while the eye never wearied
of the brilliant scene, and the heart drank
deep of the holy calm that descended upon us
like a mantle of peace.
	There were nine in our party that night:
four boys and five girls; and in the happy way
of fifteen years ago we went to the old mill-
pond. One of the boys provided the horses, an-
other the wagon bed and the hay heaped high
over the sides, another hunted up the bobs or
runners, and we all furnished our own rugs and
wraps. Just as the moon rose over the tips of
a tall elm tree, which stood in front of the
home of my sweetheart, we gave one wild
"hurrah!" which sounded loud and clear as only
it can sound on a cold, clondless night, and a-
way we went.
	We were happy that night, fifteen years ago,
the full laugh, the merry song filled the crispy
air, and many a window blind was raised, and
many a curious face peered out into the moon-
lit night in the hope of learning to what merry
party the pleasant tones belonged; and we
could see the bright flames reflected on the win-
dow panes as the fire on the hearth leaped high

[Column 2]

for the moment and then subsided into a steady
glow.
	There were nine in our party that night. An
odd party, was it not? But we did not think
so, for the sweet face of the fair girl who had
no beau that night was beloved by us all. She
came because we insisted; because she worked
hard and supported a widowed mother and
crippled sister, and because her sweet disposi-
tion aud the smile on her care-worn face drew
every heart out to her. She was happy that
night; her low and moving voice mingling 
cheerily with ours.
	We passed through the village, down the
long lane, over the hill where the winter wind
was keen and chill; and we drew the dear form
of the one nearest closer and closer to our own,
and looked into the pale and lovely face by our
side, made still paler and lovlier by the great sil-
very moon, which shed its wealth of rich light
upon us all, and upon the leafless tree and the
unsheltered and lonely bush near the cross-road.
On! on we went! every heart beating gaily—
every soul full of song and joy, till the old
mill, dark and dismal, came within view.
And we stopped at the same place where we
used to go on summer evenings when taking
the stealthy swim. We drove full on to the
ice, strapped on our skates and were soon glid-
ing over the smooth mirror which nature cre-
ates that the fair heavens may see themselves
reflected at that season even when frost reigns
supreme.
	Oh! we were happy that night! So happy
that the hours seemed but moments, and flew
by with noiseless tread. Not one thought of
care entered our bosoms; no one dreamed of
anything but the glory of the night and the
rapture of the hour. So none saw the bent
form that came across the ice towards us, nor
noticed that it moved slowly to the spot where
the spring was known to be, and where the
pond scarcely ever froze, save only at rare
times, when it was covered by a thin film of
ice—no one saw the form suddenly bend for-
ward and then sink; but the wild scream that
rang out on the midnight air struck such ter-
ror to my heart that I could never forget it,
were I to live till the millennium shall dawn
upon benighted man. We stopped, breathless,
and listened; but the stillness seemed rather to
grow from the anxiety with which we hearken-
ed, in hopes of catching the faintest sound.
Long, long we listened, but the beating of each
fond heart that in its terror crept closer to our
own, was the only sound to which the quick and
waiting ear gave heed. No one spoke; all
moved silently to the old-fashioned sleigh, and
we started home. The song had died on our
lips, the mirth had departed from our hearts,
and we went back past the old church yard,
where the tombstones, half buried in the snow,
were covered with diamonds and nature's
prisms, in which the cold moon could see its
beams reflected with the many colors of the
rainbow. And nearer and nearer was drawn
each slender form, and closer and closer beat
our hearts in tender unison; and no one ob-
served the sweet girl who was companionless
that night, until she fell against my shoulder
pale and rigid, when her lips closed with a wail
of anguish that resolved itself into the pitying
word, "Mother." Her pale face was upturned
to the moon, and seemed ghastly in its white-
ness. We chafed her hands and rubbed her
cheeks and temples; but though she breathed
and sighed her eyes never opened to the silvery
moon again; her voice no more burst forth in
song; and when we carried her into the humble
home, of which she had been the life and sup-
port, she was dead. How shall I describe that
scene? The home was still and deserted by life;
the embers burned low upon the hearth, and
close beside it, cold and peaceful, and in the
arms of death, lay the poor, crippled sister.
But the mother was not there; she had followed

[Column 3]

her daughter to the pond when the cripple
breathed its last, and the next day her body
was found beneath the ice near the spring.
	It is fifteen years since that night. I have
seen much of life, I have suffered much, and
have beheld much suffering; but the memory of
that hour is as fresh and vivid as it was just
fifteen years ago. Of that party only two re-
main. The sweet faces and manly forms are
laid to rest beneath the sod in the old church-
yard; and to-night, while the moon is just past
the full, while the stars shine clear and high,
in my mind's eye I can see the old tombstones,
with the new ones interwoven, half buried in
the snow, covered with diamonds, and reflect-
ing back the moon's cold rays, and I sigh and
shut mine eyes, and pray God that none of
those I love should ever have so sad an experi-
ence with a skating party.	S. S.


MISS RUSSELL IN ARIZONA.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I promised you to  write before leaving home
whenever I found anything of interest.  Well,
one would be dull and blind indeed to find no-
thing worthy of note between here and Salt
Lake City, to me there was so much that the
trouble is where to begin and how to tell it, or
describe it best to others.  The good wishes of
our friends in regard to our journey were fully
realized, for it was just as pleasant as it could
be, not the slightest accident or anything un-
pleasant on the way.
	In coming through the Truckee County, the
immense piles of lumber and wood was quite a
sight in itself to old Missourians, who are still
partial to wood fires, although deprived of
them for a great many years.
	The snowsheds and tunnels annoyed me very
much, as they robbed us of much of the grand-
est scenery, I think one would need to be snow-
bound ou the road a time or two to make them
appreciate the sheds.  There are lovely little
hamlets, and cottages alone, here, there and
everywhere, all through the Sierras, some looked
most pleasant and home-like, others wild and
desolate. Coming down what they called blue
canyon is the grandest sight I ever saw, and
you need to be fascinated by the wild, magnifi-
cent beauties of nature there to take your mind
off the danger, to make you forget the fearful
leaps the train is liable to take; one was,
wrecked there about a month before we came
so a gentleman on the cars informed us.
	At Sacramento we spent several hours; visit-
ed the State House, which is a very fine build-
ing, and the grounds around are beautiful,
saw oranges and lemons growing for the first 
time, also palm and many other trees and
plants new to me. Went down to the river,
(Sacramento) and found several boats at the 
landing, which much reminded me of old Mis-
souri days.
	Temple is about thirty miles from Maricopa
Station; the road mostly level.  Last Monday
a number of us climbed to the top of a peak
or young mountain a short distance north of
the settlement, and had a fine view of the sur-
rounding country.  We saw Brother B. Young
going up after we started down, and he was
much pleased with what he saw, judging from
the discourse he gave us that night.
	From the peak you can see a vast country
spread out in every direction; Salt Lake valley
could be set down in one corner easily. One
ruin, plainly visible from the mount, has the
appearance of having been a fort, or fortified
castle; I am anxious to visit it, but have not
had an opportunity yet.
	The City papers are welcome visitors, and
help us  forget that we are so far from home.
I think if this country has to be built up by
our people they had better hurry up and ex-
tend the Utah Southern down this way.
		I remain, sincerely your friend,
	TEMPE, Jan. 9, 1884.		S. E. RUSSELL.


132	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 1, 1884.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE.

	Immediately after seeing the telegram in the
papers, stating that the Executive Committee
of the N. W. S. A. of New York had protested
against the disfranchisement of the women of
Utah, etc., a telegram was sent to Mrs. Lillie
Deveruex Blake the President, and the ladies
of the Committee, a brief and sincere acknowl-
edgement, thanking them for the interest they
had taken in the matter. The dispatch was
signed by Eliza R Snow Smith, President of
Latter-day Saint Women's Organizations, Zina
D. H. Young, Fi s[-] Vice President, M. Isabella
Home, Second Vice president, Sarah M. Kim-
ball, Secretary, Presendia L. Kimball, Bath-
sheba W. Smith, Elizabeth Howard, Romania
B. Pratt, M. D., Ellis R. Shipp, M. D., Martha
Pual Hughes, M. D., Kate Wells, Zina Y. Wil-
liams, Ellen C. Clawson and Emmeline B.
Wells, Vice President National Women Suffrage
Association for Utah. The dispatch was pub-
lished in the "Daily Evening Telegram," and
other eastern papers. Since then letters have
been received from leading ladies in the east, as-
suring us of their hearty support in maintaining
woman suffrage, and expressing the opinion that
the unjust legislation against Utah would not
be sustained by the majority in Congress.
	Senator Edmunds has lost prestige with the
women suffragists, by advocating disfranchise-
for the women of Utah. Perhaps he had an
idea that there were more girls than boys
among our young people, and by the abolishing
of the franchise for women the "liberal party"
might gain ground, but that is not the case.
There are quite as many, if not more, boys born
in Utah than girls, and the idea that the off-
spring of plural marriage are mostly girls is far
from the truth. However we do not support
woman suffrage because there is any need of it
for the People's Party, not at all; but upon the
principle of legitimate right and political equal-
ity. That women are as well qualified as men
are to cast a vote and to give opinions, or even
decisions upon important matters, that they are
legally entitled to joint consideration and partici-
pation in the public weal, and should be equal
partners in the great governments of the world.
When it is well known that the most just and
equable of sovereigns have been women, why
should the people protest against the simple
right of franchise, the first preliminary step to-
wards political advancement. That is always
highest, best and most complete in which man
and woman both participate, and the highest
political and general good will be attained when
men and women work harmoniously for the in-
terest of the human family; politically as well
as morally, socially and religiously.
	The Governor of Iowa recommends prohibi-
tion and woman suffrage in his message to the

[Column 2]

Legislature, which is very encouraging to those
ladies who have labored so arduously in their ef-
forts for equal rights.
	Washington Territory is the third among the
Territories of the United States to give women
the franchise, and there is a recommendation to
Congress to appoint Mrs. A. J. Duniway Gov-
enor of the Territory. We have had some ac-
quaintance with the lady, and have no doubt
but she would fill the position with honor and
dignity.
	As for honesty and uprightness of character,
women have always been credited with a high
degree of conscientiousness in all matters of
business, and we have heard men remark, who
had been in business for years, that they never
lost a debt through the lack of honesty in a wo-
man. We should be very glad to see Mrs. Duni-
way appointed Governor; she justly deserves the
position for her able and efficient labors in
bringing about the passage of the bill granting
women political equality.


AN OVATION.

	On Monday, January 21st, Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith, President of the Latter-day Saint
Women's Organizations, received such an ova-
tion as is seldom accorded to a woman. The
party met in the Social Hall at 5 p.m , and the
exercises began about six o'clock. President
John Taylor made some preliminary remarks
suitable to the occasion, and congratulated Sis-
ter Eliza on having arrived at the age of four
score years. A good spirit seemed to rest upon
all assembled to pay this tribute of respect to a 
veteran mother in Israel, and the widow of the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Prest. George Q Cannon took charge of the
meeting. Singing by the company, "O, My
Father." Prayer by Prest. George Q Cannon.
Address of welcome, by Sister Zina D. H.
Young; Reading, an original poem, by Mattie
Horne, composed for the occasion by Emily H.
Woodmansee; Song, by Bishop O. F. Whitney,
and remarks by Apostle Erastus Snow and Wil-
ford Woodruff. President A. M. Cannon, Prest.
Joseph F. Smith and Prest. George Q. Cannon
interspersed with songs and readings. A basket
of the choicest and most delicate flowers 
and vines was presented to the honored lady
from the ladies of the committee, and a hand-
some and fragrant bouquet from Sister M. M.
Barratt.
	We publish in this issue, the poem read by
Miss Mattie Horne, and also the poem by Sister
Crocheron, ready by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and
the address by Dr. Romania B. Pratt.
	We add our sincere congratulations to that of
her many friends, and trust that she may live
until she is satisfied with life, in the full posses-
ion of every faculty of mind and body.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES[-]

	THE picture entitled, "Representative Wo-
men," and dedicated to Sister Eliza R. S. Smith,
the President of the Latter-day Saints Women's
Organizations, is now ready. The artistic part
of the work, which has been designed by Sister
Crocheron, is certainly very pretty, and shows
plainly the lady's talent. The work was litho-
graphed at the Graphic Office in New York,
and the likenesses are photographs taken in
this city. There is a book of pen-sketches of
about 140 pages, which will enhance the inter-
est of the picture.
	The organized work, which has been done by
women of this Church, is represented by the
leading officer of each society or association, and
the mottoes and emblems are expressive. Lit-
erature, education, music, science and art are al-

[Column 2]
so represented, and have appropriate symbols.
Altogether it is a very unique affair, but being
something entirely new will naturally meet
with criticism, though the object of Sister
Crocheron was a good and laudable one, and she
deserves success and patronage, for she has la-
bored under an accumulation of difficulties in
bringing the work before the public.
	MISS EMILY FAITHFUL: This distinguished
gentlewoman arrived in Salt Lake City Thurs-
day morning, January 18th, accompanied by
her private Secretary, Miss Charlotte Robinson.
She remained here about ten days, and during
that time we had the opportunity of meeting
her several times.
	Miss Faithful is well known in Great Britain,
America and Canada as a writer, a lecturer, a
philinthropist and reformer. She is connected
with the Princess Louise in philanthropical and
emigration work.
	Miss Faithful is the daughter of an English
clergyman, but is not herself bound by any
sectarian or restrictive ideas. When a young
lady she was presented at court, and has been
associated with the best people in England. She
is greatly admired not only in her own country
but in America also.
	She gave her celebrated lecture entitled
"Modern Shams" in the theatre in this city,
and was received with appreciative enthusism.
She was faultlessly dressed, and appeared per-
fectly at ease and natural; no attempts at dis-
play of language, no unnecessary gestures, no
pacing up and down, but graceful in manner
and simple in style, she appealed direct to the
intelligence of her audience, who were intent
in listening, and gave the strictest attention to
the speaker.
	The lecture itself was a decided and eloquent
protest against the shame, extravagances and
subterfuges of modern times, and the worship
of mammon, the god of this world, and especial-
ly of the present age. She thinks the present
style of living, of dressing and of public dinners,
parties, etc., is tending to an increase of jealousy
and hate among the working people, and will
eventually, if not arrested in its progress[--]y a
sensible change for the better, bring about a
state of things similar to the French revolution.
Her lecture was matter of fact, truths that every
one could receive, and she gave it in a clear and
happy manner, calculated to make a deep im-
pression on those who heard it.
	Miss Faithful is affable and amiable in man-
ner, a woman whom one can love and admire
for her nobility of soul and thorough apprecia-
tion of the needs of the age. She has great
good sense and marked ability; these qualities
combined with a superior education and exten-
sive travel make her a most charming conversa-
tionalist.
	We are very sorry she had not more time to
spend in the city, for her lecture was so highly
appreciated we feel confident it might have been
repeated to a full house.


LETTER III.

BERN, Switzerland, Dec. 17th, 1883.

MY DEAR MOTHER:
	You say you have had no letter from me after
I left New York before the one from Bern, writ-
ten on the 5th ult. I wrote you a long letter on
board the Oregon the day we sighted land, and
put it myself into the mail bag to be sent from
Queenstown. I am sorry you did not get it, as it
gave a brief description of the magnificent vessel
we sailed in, and a full account of my voyage,
with all its pleasures and annoyances. I think
every one on board wrote letters home; I won-
der if they all, like mine, never reached their
destined goal.	*	*	*	You wonder if


[Column 1]
we have glowing grate fires and lights such as
we have at home; and you will be surprised to
hear what kind of fires we have. Our room I
believe I tried to describe before, and if I ne-
glected mentioning the stove I did very wrong,
for it is a principal feature of the room, both on
account of its size and use. In all the houses
here, and ours is no exception, they have large
porcelain stoves, some square, some round.
Some are very prettily ornamented and look
very nice in a room. The fire is made on the
outside in the chimney, it seems to me, and
when it once heats up, this great oven or table,
the room becomes gradually warm. The heat
is even and moderate, and the best of it all is,
there is never any smoke or coal dust, or sign of
fire in the room. The fire is laid and lighted in
the hall, and one is never bothered with sweep-
ing up hearths or taking up ashes in one's room.
They are very queer things, and I fear my des-
cription is not very lucid.
	This morning John Q. and I went through an
art museum; this is the first museum or gallery
I have visited, and some of the pictures inter-
ested me very much. There were some very
good pictures and some very poor; but most of
them were very odd and very old, and these in-
terested me and I enjoyed looking at them very
much. The prettiest and the most interesting
thing in Bern is the wood carving. Some of
this work is truly wonderful, and very beauti-
ful. There are battle scenes represented very
clearly and very handsomely, and all done with
a little knife. There are several large stores in
the city where they sell nothing else.
	Our Conference here begins next Sunday and
continues Monday and Tuesday. We will have
a kinder-feast. I have been helping to trim a
Christmas tree for the children.	ANNIE.

LETTER IV.
BERN, Switzerland, Dec. 25th, 1883.

MY DEAREST SISTER LOUIE:
	How strange it seems to be in this far distant
land among strangers on a day like this. John
Q. and I have said so many times to-day, I won-
der what the folks are doing at home? And we
have wished so much we could see our little
George Q. I suppose his eyes are popping al-
most out of his head with surprise and wonder.
*	*	I have been helping to trim a Christ-
mas tree for the children. The festival is to be
given to night. There are eleven missionaries
here in Bern to-day. They gathered here for
the Conference, which was held yesterday and
Sunday, and are staying to spend Christmas.
The latter part of this week we go to Winter-
thur to attend Conference, and intend to return
by way of Zurich.
	Dec. 26th. I postponed finishing my letter
yesterday so I could tell you more about our
Christmas. The children came out in full
force, and they had a very nice time. A very
witty young German fellow dressed himself up
to represent Santa Claus, and when the child-
ren were singing he came in with a long basket
filled with presents on his back, a basket of
good things in one hand, and a Christmas tree
in the other, all lit up and trimmed with pretty
things. It was a total surprise to the little folks,
and at first some of the smaller ones were
frightened.	*	*	*	*	*
	The day was kept quietly here, all houses of
business closed, and the people mostly in doors,
save as they came to and from church. The
bells began to ring at five in the morning and
rang every quarter of an hour all day, except
when service was held.	*	*	*
	Before this I presume the Unity Club Fair is
all over with. I trust it was a great success. I
should very much like to know what became of
that wonderful quilt.

[Column 2]
	Ward pack has come down from Berlin, and
will assist the secretary in the office, so John Q.
will have more liberty to go out in the mission
ary field. He purposes visiting every Confer-
ence in the mission. First through Switzerland
and then Germany. I will join him at Geneva,
and expect then to see the Castle of Chillion, of
which we have read and heard so much, and
now my wish to see it is to be realized. As I
have three or four more letters to write before
going to Winterthur I will not prolong this one;
you will [-]ear from me through them all. John
Q. joins me in love to onr brothers and sisters,
dear father and mother, with much love for your
sweet self. May you have the happiest of New
Year's, and receive more blessings of health and
joy than ever.
					ANNIE W. CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	PRECEPT AND EXAMPLE.
	In reading the Church works my mind goes
back to early days, and I remember a revelation
that was given, called the "Word of Wisdom;”
and it was given for the benefit of the Latter-
day Saints—for their preservation in a time to
come. About the time it was given, or rather
soon after, the Church, both men and women,
almost universally observed its teachings, and a
man that did not keep it according to his under-
standing was not considered worthy to adminis-
ter in the ordinances of the Holy Priesthood—
at least so it was decided in the High Council at
Kirtland. (Joseph Smith’s History, Times and
Seasons. And I would ask, what improvement
have we, as a people, made in the years that
have passed? The Lord well knows the weak-
nesses of human nature, and is very lenient.
But how much longer will he bear with this
people? It seems to me that our time is about
up, and the Lord will soon require a more strict
observance of His word, or we must suffer the
consequences.
	A short time ago the subject of sewerage, san-
itary measures, etc. was agitated to a consider-
able extent. Now, cleanliness is an excellent
thing as everybody knows; but the inside of the
platter should be kept clean as well as the out-
side. If it were possible to make a sewer large
enough to take in all the breweries, whisky sa-
loons, et cetera and, their patrons, and then
empty the contents of the inexhaustible “Lit-
tle Brown Jug,” and wash them all away it
might be a great benefit to the people. Many
wonder where diptheria, and other horrible des-
eases come from, and why we are so often afflic-
ted with them. Some lay it to cesspools and
such like; which may be, in a measure, correct,
especially if they are defective; but if the sys-
tem is kept in proper order, by observing the
Word of Wisdom disease would not have power
to lay hold and destroy. It is no mystery to
me where these things come from, for the Lord
has said, through the mouths of His holy proph-
ets, that He would pour out His judgments up-
on the face of the whole earth without measure
in the last days. And it has been declared that
a desolating sickness shall pass over the land
But the Lord has been mindful of His people,
and shown them whereby they can escape these
things. And if the Saints will not take advan-
tage of God’s mercy, in making known unto
them a way of escape, how can they have faith
and confidence to call on Him for help in the
hour of their trouble.
	We send our children to Sunday School that
they may be taught the principles of righteous-
ness. They are taught to honor their father and
mother. They, are taught the necessity of
keeping the Word of Wisdom, etc. At home,
perhaps, they see their father take his beer or
whiskey; they see him smoke his cigar and chew

[Column 2]
tobacco. The'r mother takes her tea and coffee
at the table, and if the children do not take it,
it is because they are not allowed, but will do so
when they are older. Children generally look
upon their parents as perfect beings, and what
they do is right, and they should think so; for
the commandment to them is, “Honor thy
father and thy mother, etc.” Now, what is to
be done when precept and example conflict?
Surely this cannot be beneficial to the young.
A short time ago I called at a neighbor’s house;
a little girl was rolling up a piece of paper, and
said she was going to smoke. I said, it is wrong
to smoke. “Oh, but pa smoke!” So, whatever
pa or ma does must be right, for they are the
highest authority in the eyes of children. If
they drink whiskey, chew tobacco, smoke, use
tea and coffee, it must be good or they would
not use it. Now, if parents persist in using
these things the children will be apt to follow
in their footsteps; and then where is the use of
the “Word of Wisdom” at all. If we will not
do our part, how can we expect the Lord will do
His? Can we expect the destroyer will pass by
our door and not enter? Verily, no. He will be
apt to enter and lay hold of the weakest of the
flock, and when it is too late we will see our mis-
take.
	Now, if the Lord designs to raise up a strong
and mighty people He will be apt to take those
for the foundation that will be obedient to all
His words, whether it relates to our spiritual or
temporal welfare. The two cannot well be sep-
arated. Our physical health and strength de-
pend, in a great measure, on what we eat and
drink. I have great faith in the doctrine of
“The survival of the fittest.” It would not be
a pleasant idea to know that our posterity would
be cut off from the land, being weaklings, made
so by the injudicious habits of their parents,
	When, many years ago, the Lord proposed to
people this continent, He sought out two of the
best families in Jerusalem—those that were
strong both physically and mentally. And when
they were traveling toward the promised land
they were not permitted to eat anything but
raw meat. The Lord designed them to be the
root of a nation that should endure many hun-
dred years. I dare say there was some murmur-
ing, but the Lord made their food sweet unto
them, and they were healthy and strong, and
their women bore children in the wilderness,
and I doubt not but they were far healthier and
stronger than they would have been had they
had less air and a greater variety of food. Sup-
pose a people in these days were required to ab-
stain from all kinds of food but raw meat; would
there not be some grumbling? I think there
would. The Lord has given us a great many
good things, and has withheld nothing that is
for our good. Then let us not complain, but re-
joice that our Father has been mindful of His
people, and given them a “Word of Wisdom.”
Some think because they work hard they need
a little “something” to keep them up. Others
are not very well and they indulge in using tea,
coffee, beer, and other things that God has said
is not good for man. One woman showed me her
hands that were crippled with rheumatism as an
excuse for drinking tea Some excuse them-
selves in one way, and others in another way—
and perhaps they are excusable, it is not for
me to say. But it is the effect of the example,
set before the rising generation that I am writ-
ing about. Perhaps if we had faith enough to
try the Lord we might have better health, more-
strength to perform our labors, and greater
stores of knowledge—all of which are promised
to the obedient. I would suggest that the
“Word of Wisdom” be read occasionally in all-
the Relief Societies, Young Men’s and Young
Ladies’ Associations, and very often in the
Primaries. Too much cannot be said on this


subject. If parents neglect their duties in re-
gard to these things, children will grow up in-
diffirent as to the word of the Lord, that is if
they live to grow up at all. Then where will be
that great and mighty people the Lord is to
raise up in the last days to stand upon Mt. Zion?
I will tell you what I think about it. The Lord
will select the best and perpetuate their seed,
while drunkeness and debauchery will have no
place among the people of God.
								E. DOW.


134	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A YOUNG WOMAN'S TESTIMONY.

"Oh, if others but could see as as we are, and not de-
light to misrepresent us."

TO THE EDITOR OF THE ÆGIS:

	You wish to know how, and in what way I
know that Plural Marriage is right. By revela-
tion. I know by the same way that Peter knew
that Jesus was the Christ. "Jesus asked His
disciples whom do men say that I am, and they
answered and said, some say that Thou art John
the Baptist; some Elias; others Jeremiah or
one of the Prophets. He saith unto them, whom
do ye say that I am, and Simon Peter answered
and said Thou art the Christ, the Son of the
living God; and Jesus answered and said unto
him, blessed art thou Simon Barjona; for flesh
and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but
my Father which is in Heaven. I say unto
thee thou art Peter, and upon this rock will
I build my Church, and the gates of hell shall
not prevail against it." Matthew, from the
13th to 18th verse, 16th chap.
	What rock was that? Was it Peter? No.
It was the rock of revelation. God revealed
it unto Peter by the Holy Ghost, the Comforter.
In the same way God has revealed it unto me
that Plural Marriage is right.
	You ask me how I got my faith, or religion,
and further ask, "was it not given to you or
established for an authority over you by men."
I say most emphatically that it was not. Faith
and true religion can not be given by man.
Man himself is dependent upon God for those
gifts, and can not bestow them upon others.
	"Faith is a gift of God. Without faith it is
impossible to please God. Even so faith if it
hath not works is dead, being alone. But
wilt thou know, vain man, that faith without
works is dead." James, 3d chap.
	I said in my last article I was born in this
Church, and will now add, in the valleys of
these mountains, and am a free born American
citizen, though now disfranchised for obeying
the laws of God. From my earliest recollection
I had been taught to believe that the Bible
meant what it said, and that God could see and
hear me and that if I would pray He would an-
swer my prayers. I used to hear these passages
of Scripture quoted by our Elders: "If any of
you lack wisdom let him ask of God, who giveth
unto all men liberally and upbraideth not, and
it shall be given him." James 1, 5. "Ask
and it shall be given you; seek and ye shall
find; knock and it shall be opened unto you;
for every one that asketh, receiveth, and he
that seeketh findeth, and to him that knock-
eth it shall be opened." Matt. 7, 7. I wanted
to prove if those passages were true, if God could
really answer my prayers. I asked in childish
simplicity for a temporal gift and I received it;
this strengthened my faith and gave me con-
fidence to ask for things of more worth than
earthly gifts. I wanted to know for myself if
the principles taught me were true. I was
earnest. I went to God in humility and asked
for a testimony of the truth of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ. My prayer was heard. I was
answered. The Holy Ghost, the Spirit of God,
filled me with joy and gave me a testimony
that man can neither give nor take away.

[Column 2]
	I have not lived very long upon the earth,
but I have lived long enough to know the value
of prayer. I have made God my friend while
I am young by living near to Him, pleading
daily for strength and wisdom for the fellowship
of His Holy Spirit to enable me to perform the
duties required of me. I praise His name and
thank Him that He has answered my prayers.
You say that I am blind to my own rights and
God given privileges and am under the "mystic
shadows of priestcraft." It is not true. I
enjoy light and intelligence that God has given
me, that I am afraid you know nothing about.
You are certainly under the "shadows of priest-
craft" and are blind to the things of God and
His Kingdom or you would not talk about a
people and their religion as you do about the
"Mormons." What do you know about "a
Mormon woman's only hope or guarantee of
Heaven?" or what is publicity "sanctioned" in the
Mormon Church. You haven't enough of the
Spirit of truth to discern it when placed before
you, but there are none so blind as those who
"do not want to see."
	If you read the WOMAN'S EXPONENT you are
constantly reading the testimonies of Latter-
day Saint women, that are true. You not
only reject their testimonies, in defense of their
religion, but you misrepresent them, for which
you will have to give an account in the great
"hereafter."
	We are not such meek, submissive creatures
as you imagine we are. What we do, we do
because we know by the Spirit that we possess,
is right. We do it intelligently because we love
to do right. We do not believe we can be
saved in ignorance. God has provided the way
wherin we can obain "hidden treasures of
knowledge," that is, in "doing the will of the
Father." "If any man will do His will he shall
know of the doctrine whether it be of God or
whether I speak of myself." John 17, 17.
	We have the moral courage to live the prin-
ciples of our religion in spite of all the derision,
sneers and opposition of the whole world. Mr.
Edmunds, Mr. Cullom and "fifty millions of
people," can not take from us our faith and
confidence in God, nor the testimony He has
given us concerning His Church that He has
established never more to be "thrown down."
They are in the hands of God and can do no
more than He will permit them to do. It is
our business to do the will of God. He revealed
the principle of plural marriage and com-
manded us to obey it.
	We can not give it up; we must work the
works of Abraham or we can not go where he
is. God walked and talked with Abraham
after he had taken a second wife, and told him
that he would make a covenant with him and
multiply him exceedingly and make him a
father of many nations. The son of his plural
wife also received a great promise from God:
"I will make him fruitful and will multiply
him exceedingly; twelve princes shall he beget
and I will make him a great nation. " Gen.
17, 20.
	That didn't look as though God thought he
was illegitimate. Jacob, who had four wives,
was a man whom the Lord loved; the twelve
tribes of Israel descended from those polygamic
wives. Moses, the great lawgiver of Israel,
who talked with the Lord and saw many marvel-
ous manifestations of His power, made special
provisions for the children of polygamous mar-
riages, and he himself practiced it.
	The Prophet Samuel was the son of a polyg-
amist, yet he lived in the temple and was an
object of God's favor. Many more names might
be mentioned to show that God blessed and
prospered ancient Israel, who practiced the
patriarchal order of marriage, but we do not
practice it because they did; we do not say that
because they were justified, we are justified.
We do these things because we have been
commanded to do them. We worship the same

[Column 3]
God that walked and talked with them. This
is the same Gospel, with all its gifts and bless-
ings, that they enjoyed.
	In this Church men and women are equal,
they are one, their interest is one; one is not
complete without the other. "Neither is the
man without the woman, nor the woman with-
out the man in the Lord." 1 Cor. 11, 11. Mar-
raige is honorable in all and the bed undefiled,
but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.
Heb. 13, 4. There is no law of public sanction
or custom for men to break their marriage vows
in "Mormonism." Divorce is very rare. God
delights in the chastity of His daughters; so do
His servants, and adultery is ranked next in
crime to murder among the "Mormons." Those
who practice such things are severed from the
Church. They are not connected with the Latter-
day Saints; they cut themselves off from the
Priesthood. A man makes solemn covenants
to be faithful to his wives, he does not deceive
one and betray another, but each one knows
that he has other wives whom he loves and who
love him. You ask "how can a woman gratify
her love on a creature that shares his with more
than one woman, that is, if he has any love or
knows what it is?"
	Let me ask you a question, if you are married
do you not love your husband, and does he not
love his mother and sisters, and if you are a
mother, does he not love your children? How
then can you gratify your love upon him, when
his is shared with so many? Does not a woman
love all her children equally? Does she lavish
all her affections on one child, and neglect
the others?
	It is your tradition that a man can only love
one woman; but what a poor "creature" a man
would be, with a soul so small, whose affection
was so limited he could only love one woman.
	We are told in the Bible that "God is love,"
well, then, if we have His Spirit we are filled
with love. This Spirit enables us to live in
this order, and to bear and forbear with each
other's imperfections.
	It makes us generous, kind and obliging.
We think it a blessing to have a good husband;
then why is it not equally a blessing for our
fellow sisters to have good husbands, and as
there are not good husbands enough for each
woman to have one alone, why not share with
each other in lawful marriage. We have the
Priesthood of God in our midst, not priestcraft,
who have the authority to marry for time and
all eternity, having the Apostleship or power
to seal on earth. We are the only people on
the earth who have this power and authority.
	You are married by man, "until death doth
you part." We are married by the power of
the Priesthood, to enjoy endless lives and asso-
ciations in the presence of God, if we keep the
faith and endure to the end.
	"But as it is written, eye hath not seen, nor
ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart
of man, the things which God hath prepared
for them that love Him. But God hath re-
vealed them unto us by His Spirit; for the
Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep thing
of God. For what man knoweth the things of
a man save by the spirit of man which is in
him? Even so the things of God knoweth no
man but by the Spirit of God. But the natural
man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of
God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither
can he know them because they are spiritually
discerned." 1 Cor. 11.
	In the absence of this Spirit we can not ex-
pect you, or any one else, to comprehend the
difference between Priesthood, which we share
with our husbands and enjoy that equality you
would like to see established, and priestcraft,
which has governed the world for ages.
	"For except a man be born of water and of
the Spirit he can not enter the kingdom of
God."				M. E. TEASDALE.
	Nephi, Jan. 19th, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
MISSISSIPPI.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Horace mentions Bro. William Cahoon with
part of the band being encamped within a
short distance of us, also speaks of Bro's John
Taylor and Spencer having gone ahead.
"Here," he says, "it commenced raining soon
after our arrival, which, however, did not last
long. Bro Perry left us also to-day and went
back to Nauvoo."
	Next day Bro. Markham come back from
his camp, which was three miles ahead, with
fifteen or sixteen yoke of oxen to assist them
along, which was very acceptable, as during
the last night four of my father's horses had
strayed away, and a number of the boys had
gone out in pursuit of them—we went on to
Bro. Markham's camp and stopped. The
horses were found at the place where the boys
had last bought corn, some fifteen miles distant
from camp; probably they remembered it and
went back for another feast.
	The same day Horace wrote: "Brother Dal-
ton's horse was bitten to-day by a rattlesnake.
We have a civilized Indian of the ancient Del-
aware tribe with us, who is of great use to us
in such cases. Also this morning noticed a
heifer, belonging to Bro. John Pack, which
had been bitten. These reptiles are getting so
plenty as to be quite dangerous for those travel-
ing on foot, though I believe, as yet, no person
has been bitten. The other day one of Bro.
Kimball's horses being bitten he laid his hands
on the part effected, and rebuked the sickness
occasioned by the poison, in the name of the
Lord, which prayer was almost immediately
answered. Bro. Kimball says it is just as prop-
er to lay hands on a horse or an ox and admin-
ister to them in the name of the Lord, and of
as much utility, as it is to a humun being, both
being creatures of His creation, both, conse-
quently, having a claim to His attention.
	"Saturday, 25th. Traveled about seven
miles and encamped on quite a large creek, the
name unknown—called it Mt. Pleasant. This
day, by the advise of Bro. Kimball, Helen and
myself commenced "keeping house," or tent
rather, by ourselves; taking Hosea Cushing,
Wm. King, Jeannette Murray, Bro. Francis
Whitney and little Heber, thus, by this means,
more equalizing the number for the other tents
—rained a little during the night	*	*
To-day news came from Brigham that he was
five miles ahead on one of the forks of Grand
River, and that the calculation was to com-
mence splitting rails, etc., in order to inclose
some farms, also to lay out a town plat etc."
	"Sunday, 26th. This morning, notwithstand-
ing our beautiful location, we were forced to go
ahead, in consequence of there being no good
range for our cattle to feed.	*	* Before start-
ing heard Bro. Scott telling a circumstance
that happened about fifteen miles from here in
the Welder Settlement—this man, Welder, be-
ing notorious for his mobocratic principles. A
portion of the artillery had gone there and
taken jobs of work—they had earned about
$26—when they were visited by a committee,
professing to be a deputation of the people,
who told them they must leave immediately.
The man who owed them $26 seemed disposed
to pay them, but on manifesting a disposition
to do so he was told by his neighbors that he
should "pack his duds and leave;" accordingly
he paid them nothing—traveled five miles and
overtook the remainder of Zion's camp. At
this place the fitting out of those who intend
going over the mountains will take place.
Bro. S. Roundy came from Nauvoo that day,
bringing the mail. Bishop Whitney received
a letter from Thos. Burdick, dated April 22nd,
at Nauvoo, stating that he had just received a
letter from Reuben McBride, in Kirtland, an-

[Column 2]
nouncing the death of Grandfather Whitney.
The same day, by the kindness of one of the
artillery, our company were provided with
some fresh pork, some of the company having
killed a wild hog in that vicinity, of which
they saw quite a drove.
	"Monday; 27th" continues Horace, "on wak-
ing this morning found it raining, which con-
tinued through the day and night, a cold,
drizzly rain; consequently the brethren could
not do much at splitting rails etc. There are a
hundred men assigned to this business, ten lay-
ing up rails, forty-eight to building houses,
twelve to each house; ten herding cattle, twelve
digging wells, ten building a bridge across the
river for us to pass on our journey west; ten or
twelve stocking ploughs and making drags,
five or six blacksmith shops, the remainder to
attend to the business of farming, etc."
	It seems that for two days there was not
much done on account of the rains, which con-
tinued incessantly day and night till Wednes-
day evening, when it cleared off pleasant. By
the last mail father had received a letter from
Bro. Joseph L. Heywood, at Nauvoo, announc
ing the sale of our place there for thirty-five
yoke of oxen, to which Horace wrote an an-
swer on the 28th.
	The next day he wrote: "A meeting was
called about noon in order to do some business,
necessary to fitting out an expedition over the
mountains. Bro. O. Pratt made an estimate
of the number of wagons, grain, implements
of farming, such as hoes, shovels, etc., that
would be necessary for one hundred men on
this expedition."
	"The first of May," Horace wrote, "we are
now engaged repairing the wagons that we in-
tend taking with us when we shall start again.
The weather has been so inclement since our
arrival that our stay here will necessarily be
prolonged beyond the time originally intend-
ed."
	He also speaks of his father and mother,
Prest. young and wife Mary Ann, and my
father and mother going to Lorenzo Young's
tent that same day to dine, where they had
quite a family meeting. While stopping there
there was not more than one or two days till
about the 13th that we did not have a shower;
some of the time hail and rain, and on the
night of the 5th had a heavy thunder storm,
and there was some sickness in consequence,
but we had very few deaths in our camp dur-
ing that part of our journey, for which we had
great cause to be thankful. Numbers of the
brethren, who had come that far with teams and
to drive, returned to Nauvoo.
	"Tuesday, 4th," Horace says, "one of father's
horses, on being driven up to-night, was dis-
covered to be very badly bitten in two or three
places on the head. We immediately resorted
to our family horse physician, the Delaware,
who has been veyr sucessful hitherto," but
on the 7th, it seems, the horse died, contrary to
their expectations. "This," Horace wrote, "was
owing to the inattention on the part of the
boys, who neglected to take care of him.
Father considers it quite a loss as it breaks up
one of his teams."
	"Friday, 8th.	*	*	Jacob Fra-
zier came in with five yoke of Bro. Kimball's
ozen and went to drawing rails this afternoon.
The brethren finished their fencing to-day,
having enclosed 300 acres, leaving a surplus of
10,000 rails; they have besides a sufficient
number of house logs cut to build 30 or 40
buildings. This afternoon Andrew Cahoon
came in from Nauvoo-brought the mail, the
5th number of the Eagle for Brigham, and the
news that Porter was arrested, while asleep, by
Backentos in Nauvoo for the murder of Wor-
rel—that he was taken to Carthage, stood trial
on the charge and was acquitted. He was no
sooner liberated, however, than he was taken
up on another accusation—that of threatening

[Column 3]
a man's life, and committed to Quincy Jail
there to await his trial."
	"The wife of Bro. Green, captain of a com-
pany of pioneers, died, and was buried here
yesterday."
	"Saturday, 9th. Beautiful day— about noon
I started out and got the cattle— put four yoke
on my wagon, three on Bro. Smither's and
horses to the carriage, and went out three or
four miles and encamped where our cattle have
been kept—took the little tent with us. Wm.
Kimball and King went with us and helped
us drive the teams. We got here about sun-
set. We are in a short distance of a hut
which the boys built the other day, where John
Forsgreen and Jacob Frazier stay nights.
There is a wolf's den about a quarter of a mile
from here, which Wm. found the other day—
the boys chased a wolf into it and put fire at
the entrance, but could not scare the wolf out,
and on repairing there the next day discovered
the sticks they had made it of carefully laid
aside. Beside Helen and myself there are six
of us, John, Jacob, Jeannette, Sister Smither
and her two children."
	"Sunday, 10th.		*	*	There were
some resolutions passed at the meeting—one
was, that the land which had been enclosed,
and all that pertains thereto, should be consid-
ered as belonging to the Church or Church
property, each man or family is allowed a cer-
tain portion of land to till, and if he neglects
it, it is to be taken from him and given to an-
other. Father Burt is to be left as president
of this Stake of Zion, assisted by two counsel-
ors. Jedediah Grant preached in the Gospel."
	This day the sky was cloudless and beauti-
ful, and I was happy because the few days
spent there were so quiet and peaceful, and I
looked forward with a feeling of dread to the
time that it must be broken in upon and again
be forced to mingle with the crowd and una-
voidable noise and bustle of a large camp. Our
tent was pitched on a gentle slope, and below
some distance away, was a crystal stream of
water babbling over the rocks down through a
little grove of trees and willows, where I ac-
companied Horace the next day, Sunday, to
fish, taking along our books to read. This
was his favorite pastime, and in which he in-
dulged every opportunity. This was the most
delightful spot we had seen, the whole land-
scape around us was lovely, they called it roll-
ing praierie, and it had such a variety of hills
and dales, all dressed anew in their bright vel-
vety robes of spring.
	the first morning I took an early stroll to
enjoy the scene, and I was almost enchanted as
I stood there alone gazing at the glorious sight
as the sun was peeping over the hills—and to
lend still more to the scene of enchantment
here came a beautiful fawn and also an aute-
lope, skipping fearlessly over hill and dale and
out of sight, with naught to disturb them nor
the peace and tranquility of my thoughts, but
the knowledge that the spell was so soon to be
broken.
	I was a romantic girl, not yet eighteen, and
naturally an admirer of the beauties of God's
handiwork, and I thought, like the "Minstrel,"
	"O nature, how in every charm supreme!
		Whose votaries feast on raptures ever new!
	O, for the voice and fire of seraphim,
		To sing thy glories with devotion due!"
	Next day another fishing excursion was tak-
en, where Horace caught a dozen or more.
These substantials were very acceptable, as we
had had no meat, except a little that had been
given to us and some we had borrowed a few
days previous, for a number of weeks, but had
subsisted principally on sea biscuits and that
sort of fare. When the sun did shine the heat
was intense, and the reasons for my remember-
ing it was that we were compelled to walk all
that was possible to favor the teams as they


were fast giving out, and the most aggravating
part was the slow progress that we made, it
taking us over three months to accomplish
what would have been a week's journey under
ordinary circumstances.
	Sometimes our camping place would be in
sight of the one that we had started from in
the morning, being on the prairie and having
to follow the crooked ravines, there being no
roads or bridges unless we stopt to build them.
The most trying part of the journey, at least to
me, was when we had to walk, and the scorch-
ing sun at times beating down upon us, until
my little strength and patience would be quick-
ly exhausted. There were times when we girls
would drop down by the roadside and vow that
we would not rise again till we saw the tents
pitched, then we would take a straight line to
the camp. I had not yet obtained sufficient
religion to assist me and as my strength failed
me so did my faith, but when the teams were
ahead our only alternative was to get up and
travel on. But after they decided to peddle off
such things as they could not take with them
over the mountains and we got more teams and
provisions, we were much more comfortable. I
shall never forget how I feasted at Garden
Grove upon my mother's first white bread and
fresh churned butter. I had been famishing
for a fortnight or more for the want of nour-
ishment, or the lack of appetite to eat such as
was set before us. At Garden Grove we had
our first trial at eating cakes made of parched
corn meal, one meal of which sufficed me.
At the beginning of our journey the crack-
ers went very well for lunch, but after laying
in the boxes, as they did through that long
siege of wet weather, they became more or less
mouldy and tainted with the pine wood, so that
the greater part were fit only to be thrown
away.
	I remember one evening at our pleasant
camping place, after leaving the main camp,
when our little circle had knelt for prayers, I
happened to bow by the bag of parched meal,
and the effect was so unpleasant I could not
centre my thoughts upon worship, so I arose
quietly and moved to the opposite end of the
tent. Some were considerably reduced in flesh
by this time. But at this place Bishop Miller
and a number of the brethren went out ped-
dling. The quadrille band, Bro. James
Smithers among the number, had gone on the
same business in order to make exchanges for
teams, flour, bacon, and other provisions,
which the camp stood in great need of.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.
 The Primary meetings for electing delegates
to the municipal convention will be held on
Monday, Feb. 4, in the several precincts. La-
dses, do not forget to attend these Primaries.

     The members of the Legislature, although
nearly all young men and inexperienced in leg-
islative work, are pushing their work forward
in committees quite steadily. According to reli-
able information, they are quite as energetic
in the performance of duties assigned them as
older members have been in the Legislature of
the past. Quite a number of ladies visit the
Legislature from time to time.

     Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell in a concise state-
ment against the “Contagious Diseases Acts"
made in the Hastings (Eng.) and St. Leonard's 
Times, says: “The object aimed at can never be
reached by crushing the weaker party—viz.,
the women. An honest attack must be made
on the stronger partner in vice, the paymaster,
the briber, or seducer—viz., the. man. Cor-
rupt men must be dealt with before you can
deal with corrupt women.


Julia Margaret Cameron, who died recently
at her lovely home in the Isle of Wight, be-
came famous in photography. Her heads of
Tennyson, Browning, Carlyle, Darwin, Hers-
chel and others, are the best probablyl ever ta-
ken of these men. Her secret was to place her
sitter far out of focus and subject the plate to-
an unusually long exposure.


IN MEMORIUM.

	I grieve to write you of the death of our beloved sis-
ter, Mrs. Ellen Madsen, president of the north ward Re-
lief Society of Ephraim. Sister Madsen died on the 15th
inst, and was buried on the 17th. The respect in which
she was held was evinced by the sisters of both wards
gathering at her residence, and from there walking in
procession behind the coffin which held the honored dead
to the meeting house, a distance of four blocks.
	The services were of a nature to comfort and cheer.
The opening prayer was offered by Bishop Dorius; the
speakers were Prest. C. Peterson, II. Beal, Bishop An-
derson, and Bishop Jensen, of Manti. Bishop Madsen,
of Gunnison, pronounced the benediction.
	The occasion was one of peculiar solemnity, there be-
ing three present about to become occupants of the si-
lent city, representing three stages of human life--
childhood, maturity and old age. Sister Madsen would
have been fifty-six had she lived until February 8th.
Death is but the entrance of life everlasting,
	The seed must be planted ere the flower can bloom,
but the grave has no power to hold the free spirit;
	Then death hath no sting, no vict'ry the tomb.
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG.

	DIED, at Alpine, Jan. 2nd, 1884, Sarah Ann, beloved
wife of John R. McDaniel. Her death was caused by a 
fall, which occurred two weeks previous. Her suffering,
until within a few hours of her death, was most intense
She was a good, faithful Latter-day Saint, and had for
two years filled the office of a teacher in the Relief So-
ciety. She was greatly respected and beloved by her
many friends. Deceased was born in the State of Mis-
souri, Jan. 8th, 1847 and emigrated to Utah with her
parents when quite young, and has resided in Alpine for
the last twenty-five years. She leaves a husband and
three children to mourn her loss.
			MARIA ADAMS.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW,
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	-	25c.	per	copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.	“
POEMS, by E.R. Snow, Vol.-l, 	$1.00	
“ Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25	“
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, — 1.50	“

DR. ELLIS B. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, 11th Ward, No. 31, Seventh
East Street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C. 
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yams,	Wool Batting,
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Limeys,	Casslraers,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East. 
Special Attention- given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL’S
Will he found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS.
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, UNQUUIH, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

FAuerbach & Bro,
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION, AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS.
