VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1883.	NO. 5.


LOVINGLY ADDRESSED

TO SISTER MARINDA HYDE ON HER BIRTH-
DAY, JULY, 1883.

There are some lives that should be told
By pen that's dipt in liquid gold!
Not that they wore an earthly crown,
Or slept on beds of elder-down;
Not that they robed in royal sheen,
Or bore the title of a queen
To whom grand courtiers bend the knee,
And kiss the hand in fealty.
All this is well, if good and true,
But such were not within the view
I had, when in these opening lines
I wished for gold to trace my rhymes.
A form that God himself has blest
Before my mental vision prest;
It bears the index of a soul
Formed and sustained by God's control;
And by that all-supporting aid
Has passed life's sunshine and its shade,
And both have left their well known trace
Upon the form and on the face.
But naught its beauty could destroy,
Twas made the brighter by alloy.
Yes, Lady, all that I can say
Shall but enlarge thy wreath of bay.
A humble offering 'tis I bring,
A humble song my heart doth sing,
And fondly lay them at your feet
On this your natal day—to greet
You with a sister's faithful smile;
Who feels to bless you all the while,
And pray you many days may see
That brings Nativity to thee!
And pray you many days may see
That brings Nativity to thee!
And rest assured had I the power
I'd renovate you from this hour.
I ask your life prolonged may be
Your children's children's children see.
And health and plenty still be thine,
And God be with thee, sister mine!
Accept the birthday song I sing;
Your loving sister H. T. King.
						HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City.


SPIRIT OF SONG INSPIRE ME.

BY M. J. T.

Sweet spirit of song inspire me,
	Lend me thy magical lay;
Children are crying and tire me;
	Why dost thou linger away?

Spirit of song stay near me,
	And wait tilI the supper is through;
My heart is sighing to hear thee,
	But now there is so much to do.

My mind is confused with the hurry;
	My head like a cart wheel goes 'round
There is nothing but labor and worry
	In woman's whole life to be found.

There's knitting, and darning, and sewing,
	And cooking and washing, I trow;
A hundred things more that need doing;
	And baby is king, you all know.

Spirit of song, I am weary
	With cares that I cannot evade;
The weather is cheerless and dreary,
	And this the first rhyme I have made.

Come to my aid, I implore thee,
	Unto my sorrow give ear;
Clouds that are looming before me
	Fly when thy presence is near.

Polly is dusting the parlor,
	And Jennie is making the fire,


I'll put the tea kettle over,
	And then to my room I'll retire.

First I must tend to the baby
	And wash little Tommy's sweet face;
Susie has got her dress dirty,
	And Jack has been running a race.

Sister came over this morning,
	And wondered what made me so "blue;"
Cook left last night without warning,
	And what is a body to do?

There's a limit to every endeavor.
	Not matter how hard we may try,
Unless we are watching we never
	Can tell how the time passes by.

Spirit of song, you are glowing,
	And often my bosom inspire;
The rest to their slumbers are going,
	And I to my bed must retire.


[Column 1]
﻿TO MY LITTLE BROTHERS.

	Now I do not know of anything that pleases
me more than reading about the "Children's
Fair" in the EXPONENT, and I feel like prais-
ing them for their noble efforts of industry, al-
though I am behind time in so doing, but I
have not forgotten what I have read about
their little specified articles. Methinks I see
their little fingers turning and trying to fit
everything to its place, and their young minds
active in forming something new for each com-
ing fair. How nice and good this is of them
to respond to the call of those who are trying
to teach them the principles of industry. Do
not one of you little boys and girls neglect to
take an active part in each coming fair where
you live, you can all do something. I will
make a few suggestions to awaken a interest
in boys learning trades, and that while young.
Have any of you made pottery-ware? Little
cups, plates, saucers, pitchers and jars for your
little sisters to put in their play houses. Now,
I will try to tell you how to make pottery
ware, if I have not forgotten the process. My
father was a potter, and when I was a child I
have stood by and looked on to see the lump of
useless clay made into things of all shapes
and kinds for domestic use. Our loaf sugar
was first made in clay molds of various sizes,
these I have seen made and warehouses full of
them before shipment. Thousands of dollars
have been made by their manufacture. I
promised to tell how these things were made,
we will work on a small scale. Get some good
clay, make it fine by hammering it on a board
with a mallet; make a bench a yard long and
a half yard wide, with a hole in the centre to
place an upright through, on this put a wheel
plat, there must be something at the bottom
like a small spinning wheel arrangement to
move the wheel around with the feet.
	Make a high stool to sit on, put a basin of
water on the bench to wet your hands and the
clay, have a piece of thin wire, put a piece of
clay the size of an orange on the wheel, wet
the clay and wheel before putting it on, wet
your hands, now turn the wheel quickly, put
both hands around the clay and form it bulging
in the middle, place your finger in the centre to
make a hole, then use both hands to draw out
until your flower pot is made, take the wire
with both hands and carry it under the pot,
this cuts it off the wheel, place it on a board
to stiffen and dry, bake it in an oven.
	The potter can make any shaped vessel out
of clay on the wheel when in motion with his

[Column 2]
hands, without a pattern. Now, little boys,
would you not like to make dishes in this easy
way; you could sit all day at your work and
only get off your seat when the vessel is fin-
ished to place it upon the board to dry. You
must get your father to assist you in learning
to make those little things, and bring them to
the fair, and bring your bench and let us see
how it is made. You can find in the Scrip-
ture where it says you can make a vessel to
honor or dishonor. But I hope my dear
young friends may grow up to manhood ves-
sels of honor in the Kingdom of their Hea-
venly Father. I should like also to tell the
boys how to make felt hats if I do not make
my article too long. Two of my own
brothers and two brothers-in-law were hatters,
and my trade was to trim them. I worked
at it in the States and here in the city. I
trimmed hats for Brother Heywood and my
brother. I think a trade is a good help for
either sex, by this means I helped to support
myself and children while my husband was on
his various missions sounding the Gospel
trump to the nations. I have wandered from
my subject, I was going to tell how hats were
made.
	Heat a kettle full of water. Take a smooth
board and nail it on a stand, make the two
front legs shortest so that the water can run
ihto the kettle, make a proper height to stand
by. Get skins of animals and pluck out the
coarse hair, put this by itself, then pluck out
the fine, using a knife for this purpose. Take
the coarse and dip in the hot water, it will
begin to cling and pull together, then com-
mence to stretch and roll the piece up, free-
ly dipping in the hot water, stretch the cloth
in a round piece, make a round block of wood
large enough for a doll's hat, while wet pull it
over the block and leave a piece for the brim,
turn down with the block inside with the brim
on the board, and let it dry in shape. You
can leave it the natural color or dye it black.
This is what is called the fulling process. Now
try, boys, and make a doll's hat for the fair.
	To be continued to the little girls.
						MARY ANN PRATT.


Madame Rudersdorff, who recently died, was
a most entertaining woman, in addition to be-
ing a thorough musician. The stories of her
life are full of interest. She was a great
favorite with the Princess Royal of England,
who is now the Crown Princess of Prussia.
Shortly after the marriage of the Princess,
Madame Rudersdorff sang at a Court concert
at Berlin, and was invited by the Crown Prin-
cess to breakfast with her. They breakfasted
together informally, and afterwards madame
sang several songs of Handel's the Princess's
favorite composer, her Royal hostess playing
her accompaniments. After a while the Prin-
cess proposed a visit to the nursery. As
madame was sitting on the floor, with one child
playing with the charms of her watch chain,
another hanging over her shoulder, and the
baby in her arms, the door opened, and the
Crown Prince walked in. The Princess arose
and introduced her visitor. Madame looked
up, and, with her ready tact and wit, said,
"Your Royal Highness, I must either disregard
Court etiquette or drop the baby." The Prince
bowed courteously, and said, with a smile' 'Do
what you like with etiquette, but regard the
baby."—Selected


34	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"It is not merely that you may see these
things, but it is a matter of fact, a matter that
has to do directly with your salvation, for
which you have talked and labored many
years. It is not for amusement you are
brought to receive these things, but to put you
in possession of the means of salvation, and be
brought into a proper relationship to God—
hence a man becomes responsible for his own
conduct and that of his wife, if he has one. It
is not designed that the things that are pre-
sented to-day should be forgotton to-morrow,
but be remembered and practiced through all
coming life—Hence it is a stepstone to ap-
proach to the favor of God. Having descended
to the lowest state of degradation, it is
the begining of a homeward journey; it is
like a man lost in a wilderness, and the means
with which we are invested here are to direct
us in our homeward journey. You then see
the reason why you are required to put away
your vanities, cease to talk of all those things
which are not conducive to eternal life. This
is why you are required to be sober, to be
honest, that you could ask and receive, knock
and it should be opened, and that when you
sought for things you would find them. It is
putting you in possession of those keys by
which you can ask for things you need and ob-
tain them. This is the key by which to obtain
all the glory and felicity of eternal life. It is
the key by which you approach God. No im-
pression which you receive here should be lost.
It was to rivet the recollections of these things
in your memory, like a nail in a sure place
never to be forgotton. The scenery through
which you have passed is actually laying be-
fore you a picture or map, by which you are to
travel through life, and obtain an entrance
into the celestial Kingdom hereafter. If you
are tempted in regard to these things here, you
will be tempted when you approach the
presence of God hereafter. You have, by be-
ing faithful, been brought to this point, by
maintaining these things which have been en-
trusted to you.		*	*	*	It is not
merely for the sake of talking over these things
that they are given to you, but for your bene-
fit and for your triumph over the powers of
darkness hereafter. We want the man to re-
member that he has covenanted to keep the
law of God, and the woman to obey her hus-
band, and if you keep your covenants you will
not be guilty of transgression. The line that
is drawn is for you to maintain your covenants,
and you will always be found in the path of
obedience, after that which is virtuous and
holy and good, and will never be swallowed up
by unhallowed feelings and passions. If you
are found worthy and maintain your integrity,
and do not run away and think yon have got
all your endowment, you will be found worthy
after a while, which will make you honorable
with God. You have not yet been ordained to
anything, but will be by and by. You have
received these things because of your compli-
ance with all the requisitions of the law, and if
faithful you will receive more. You have now
learned how to pray. You have been taught
how to approach God and be recognized. This
is the principle by which the church has been
kept together, and not the power of arms. A
few individuals have asked for your preserva-
tion, and their prayers have been heard, and it
is this which has preserved you from being
scattered to the four winds. Those who have
learned to approach God and receive these
blessings, are they better than you? The only
difference is they have been permitted to have
these things revealed unto them. The princi-
ples which have been opened to you are the

[Column 2]
things which ought to occupy your attention
all your lives. They are not second to any-
thing; you have the key by which, if you are
faithful, you will claim on your posterity all
the blessings of the Priesthood."
	Elder H. C. Kimball said, "The ideas ad-
vanced by Brother Lyman are good and true.
*	*	*	God is like one of us, for He
created us in his own image. Every man that
ever came upon this earth, or any other earth,
will take the course we have taken—Another
thing, it is to bring us to an organization, and
just as quick as we can get into that order and
government, we have the celestial Kingdom
here. You have got to know your brethren or
you never can honor God. The man was
created, and God gave him dominion over the
whole earth, but he saw that he never could
multiply and replenish the earth without
woman; and He made one and gave her to him.
He did not make the man for the woman but
the woman for the man.		*	*	But
if a man does not use a woman well and take
good care of her, God will take her away from
him and give her to another. Perfect order
and consistency makes heaven, but we are now
deranged, and the tail has become the head.
*	*	*	One reason why we bring our
wives with us is that they may make a coven-
ant with us to keep these things sacred. 	*	*
You can't sin so cheap now as you could be-
fore you came to this order. It is not for us to
reproach the Lord's anointed, nor to speak evil
of him; all have covenanted not to do it."	*	*
	Elder George A. Smith made a few re-
marks; he spoke principally in relation to the
importance of keeping sacred those principles
which we had received.	*	*	He
was followed by Elder Orson Hyde.	*	*
The congregation was dismissed by prayer by
Elder John Taylor.
	Those teachings and the wonderful experi-
ence of the Latter-day Saints since they were
given, and the apostacy of some who were then
such bright and shining lights, have led me to
indulge in deep and sorrowful reflections on
the same. The awful and irreparable loss of
those whose great light has become darkness,
because they forgot and transgressed the very
laws and principles which their own lips were
inspired to utter in that house of God, and to
proclaim it for years after to the Saints, and al-
so to the nations afar off. And do we realize
that this warning voice has been sounding in
our ears for more than half a century, and
that the Lord is now coming out from His hid-
ing place to vex the nations, and that He will
no longer be trifled with? These things we
were forcibly reminded of by the late terible
fire in this city. Though the threats of men
could not make our knees tremble, God is able
to, and to humble us to the dust, and which I
truly believe he will do, and that quickly, un-
less we change from our present course in mix-
ing up and following in the ways of Babylon.
Being absent from the city at the time of that
dreadful fire, when hearing the awful tidings
it sounded like a death knell to departed hopes;
and this feeling was not lessened when hearing
repeatedly these old familiar words, uttered
years ago. Brother Heber predicted that
"whisky street" (Main Street) would yet burn
like an old tinder box." We also heard Presi-
dent Young speak in a similar manner. If it
deserved that title then, by what name should
it now be called, with other places established
since then, and sustained by the outside ele-
ment, and which are in a similar state of
putrefaction? We little looked for any-
thing of this kind when coming away
to this far off wilderness, and for many
years we were almost entirely free from
its contaminating influence. But these things
we suppose are necessary to prove us. It has
long been foretold that God's judgments should
commence at His house, and it appears to me that

[Column 3]
this is but the beginning, and that it stands us
in hand to search into our own hearts, and ask
ourselves if we are living up to all of His re-
quirements. We read that "Those who fear
the Lord will prepare their hearts and humble
their souls in His sight, saying, we will fall in-
to the hands of the Lord and not into the
hands of men, for as His majesty is, so is His
mercy." But how much longer can we look
for mercy? What hath not mercy mixed with
judgment done? How can we look for it if we
are not keeping His commandments and
the "Word of Wisdom" given by the Lord
through His Prophet Joseph, to the Latter-day
Saints on the 27th of February, 1833. It
was sent greeting—not by commandment or
constrained, but by revelation	*	*	*
showing forth the order and will of God in the
temporal salvation of all Saints in the last
days.
	"Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto
you, in consequence of evils and designs which
do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring
men in the last days, I have warned you and
forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of
wisdom by revelation.	*	*	*	*
And all Saints who remember to keep and do
these sayings, walking in obedience to the com-
mandments, shall receive health in their navel
and marrow to their bones, and shall find wis-
dom and great treasures of knowledge, even
hidden treasures; and shall run and not be
weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I
the Lord give unto them a promise, that the
destroying angel shall pass by them, as the
children of Israel and not slay them. Amen.
	My father's clerk wrote the following: "Dec.
23rd. Almon W. Babbit entered the Temple,
was invited by President Young into his room;
he brings report that officers from Springfield
are here, and several of the state troops after
the Twelve; particularly Amasa Lyman.	*	*
At three o'clock John Scott informed George D.
Grant that an officer and assistants were
watching for President Young and others at
the front door of the Temple. Brother Grant
carried the information to President Young,
who soon devised a scheme by which their in-
tentions to carry him off might be frustrated."
The President directed Brother William Mil-
ler, who was present at the time, to put on his
cloak, but which happened to be my father's—
their cloaks being precisely alike. He threw
it around Brother Miller's shoulders, and told
him to wear it and also his hat and accompany
George Grant to his carriage at the door, etc.
They followed his directions. Brother Clayton
wrote: "As Brother Miller was about to get
into the carriage with Elder Grant, the officer
and five or six of his assistants arrested him
supposing him to be President B. Young. They
were about to drive away with him, having
made their boasts that they would get as many
of the Twelve as they could--take them down
to Warren, and have a New Year's frolic kill-
ing them, but they were persuaded to drive to
the Nauvoo Mansion and tarry until to-morrow
morning, when the validity of the writ would
be tested.
	"They were kept in profound ignorance of
their mistake.	*	*	Esq. Babbit
takes the legal management of the case, and
when they have stopped long enough to make
a good tavern bill will probably get their eyes
open and put off."
	"Esq. Babbit came in at five o'clock, and re-
ports that the officer	*	*	has left
the city and gone to Carthage with the prisoner.
*	*	Lawyer Edmunds, a partner of
Mr. Babbit's, has gone with them to act as
counsel for the prisoner. The officer has writs
for B. Young, H. C. Kimball, P. P. Pratt,
John Taylor, George A. Smith, Amasa Lyman
and T. Turley, who are all charged with coun-
terfiting the coin of the United States."

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EVENTIDE.

It was in the summer gloaming,
The soft, sweet, purple gloaming,
When the paler rays of sunset blended with the shadows
gray,
And the fragrance of the flowers was heavy in the air,
And the silver threads of twilight whiten'd all along
the way,
Till a ghost-like stillness stole over all the landscape
fair,
That we wander'd in the garden,
The grand, old fashioned garden.

Ah, 'twas in the subtle gloaming,
The weird, entrancing gloaming,
When the shadows deepen'd darker, and the stars be-
gan to shine,
And one felt the heart of nature in its gentlest, tend'r-
est hour,
That we pledg'd our troth together where the roses in
tertwine;
And we reveled in the realms of fancy's potent power,
While we saunter'd in the garden,
The dear, old, homely garden.

What the whisper'd in the gloaming,
The dim uncertain gloaming,
In that murmur'd undertone that falls so softly on the
ear;,
While it swept along the rose-trees like the flutter of a
wing
Ling'ring down among the grasses as a presence over-
near,
Left a charm for years to come like a precious, living
thing;
Aye, for years 'twas in the garden,
The rude, neglected garden.

Oft at even in the gloaming,
The vague and solemn gloaming,
Have I listen'd for the echo of that whisper 'mid the
flow'rs;
Rich and mellow were the tones, like music, soft and
low,
And my happy heart made answer in those dreamy, sum-
mer hours,
As we vow'd to love each other, in that far-off, long ago
In the shad'wy old garden,
The dear, enchanted garden.

And still the purple gloaming,
The fair, deceitful gloaming,
Comes forever with the summer, just the same at even-
tide,
With the memories that haunt me of the beautiful and
bright,
And the glory of the hours that will evermore abide
In the soul of one that waits through the dark and
stormy night,
For that promise in the garden,
The dear, old fashion'd garden.

It is sweeter in the gloaming,
The calm and tranquil gloaming,
To recall the happy mem'ries that around our hearts
entwine;
While we are young and ardent, the future seems so
bright;
We could not dream that sorrow would shatter love's
fair shrine,
Or that darkness, sad and dreary, could follow its de-
light,
When we linger'd in the garden,
The balmy, fragrant garden.
But tho in the summer gloaming,
The strange, fantastic gloaming,
We only see faint shadows in a dim, unreal way,
Or waken old-time echoes, as from a far-off shore;
Yet we know to those who're faithful there will dawn
a roseate day,
A glorious to-morrow that will last for evermore,
In that fair, Elysian garden,
The first, primeval garden.			EMILE.


[Column 1]
			TWO DREAMS.

	What does it indicate to dream of snakes?
It means enemies, is the quick reply; and it
seems quite reasonable; to dream of a slimy,
venomous snake coiling and writhing around
you and suddenly to feel its quick  power-
ful bite cannot indicate anything that is good.

			[Column 2]
	Now comes the query, who can it mean? and
the mind will quickly revert to some one who
has said or done something that did not seem
quite right—one whom we had thought was our
friend, in whose company we had spent hours
of pleasure and satisfaction—one in whom we
had trusted and confided (too much perhaps)
we will think with an already awakening sus-
picion; and we cull over in our minds things
that have passed between us of a little unpleas-
ant nature, and though we had dropped them
at the time as not worth thinking about, they
now begin to assume gigantic proportions.
Shall we now begin to hold ourselves aloof and
to watch her with a jealous eye? Common
sense answers, no, it is unsaintlike, and unbe-
coming those of our profession to harbor such
feelings in our hearts; besides, do not those
smooth-tongued hypocritical beings originate
principally in the minds of novel writers? Is
there not some good in nearly all mankind,
and are we not too ready to think evil of each
other, and to disregard these words:? "Be full
of charity, for charity covereth a multitude of
sins."
	I will give another version of the dream.
The serpent is surely the enemy of all man-
kind—both saint and sinner are liable, accord-
ing as they give him power, to feel is venom-
ous sting; and this will be so until Satan is
bound, for he is ever on the alert to lead astray
the children of men, and to cause them to do
that which will debar them for an exaltation
in the kingdom of God. Artful and cunniug,
he will know the weak points in each one's na-
ture, and where he cannot induce them to com-
mit great crimes he will sow seeds of discord,
of jealousy and hatred; for he knows where
there is unity there is strength, and where
families and communities are bound together
by the strong ties of affection—where there is
a oneness of interest, feelings and desires,
there he is cast out and hath no abiding place
in their hearts. Let us illustrate for instance
your dear ones—those whose welfare and hap-
pinesss you prize above all else—in short you
feel as though an exaltation in the kingdom of
God would be incomplete without their pres-
ence and their love, your soul is drawn out
continually with a desire to see them advance
in all good works, that they may overcome the
adversary of mankind. They each have their
different friends and associates; and lo, you be-
hold the repulsive form of the venomous rep-
tile slowly and continually winding its way be-
tween them; suddenly he will dart his fiery
venom one way and another, and their unsus-
pecting, unguarded hearts must feel his sting,
yet all unconscious of his presence they hug
him closer and closer, and all your warnings
and pleadings and your grief seem of little
avail. He blinds their eyes to their own
faults, yet magnifies the faults of others; even
your own unselfish wishes for the good of all
are miscontrued, and you are accused on both
sides of partiality and a disregard for their
welfare; but you cannot cherish and uphold
one at the expense of the other, and wherever
you see the green eyes of the monster peering
you strike at them, though you should wound
a loved one in so doing.
	If you succeed in getting one who you have
perhaps considered a little the most bitter in
their feelings to take a step or two towards the
reconciliation and union you so much desire,
the other is sure to be more that usually obsti-
nate. Thus the gap seems to widen and all your
hopes to be frustrated. Oft you pray and weep
in secret, and so time goes on and on. Some-
times when sad and weary with the struggle
you seek a word of sympathy, but meet a re
buff where you least expected it; some thought-
less, unkind expression will add the one drop
too much for your over charged heart, and
long after the one who so unintentionally
added the drop is resting in quiet sleep, un-

			[Column 3]
conscions of the storm of grief their words
have awakened, you will live over and over
again scenes through which you passed with
so much apparent fortitude. Your head and
your heart seem bursting; your nerves strung
to their utmost tension, and still your thoughts
fly with uncontrolable swiftness, and the bit-
ter tears flow until the small hours come, and
you are aware that the morrow will find you
all unfit for your duties and responsibilities,
and you strive with all your powers of self
command to quiet your nerves and court sleep.
	At length in that half unconscious state be-
tween sleeping and waking, your every pulse
throbbing with pain, another scene passes be-
fore you, the death bed—not the death bed of
your loved ones that you have lived over so
oft, but one that perhaps you think of less
frequently, yourself.
	This is not difficult to imagine in your pres-
sent state of mind and body, and you see your
dear ones whom you are to leave behind
gathered around, their faces expressive of
anxiety and grief. Your eye glances from face
to face and you call for other dear friends who
though at enmity with some present, are still
near and dear to you. They come; and in low
but earnest words you make them understand
your desire to see them reconciled with each
other. With an eloquence awakened by near
approach to the last great change, you point
out the way—you give them this key—that all
that is good, all that tends to bind together
with unity and love, the desire to overcome
evils in themselves, and a willingness to over-
look faults in others, comes from God—that
the opposite of this comes from the evil one,
and should be avoided, as it will surely lead to
misery, both in this life and the life to come.
You entreat them by their hope of the great,
reunion with those dearest ones who have gone
before, their desire for joy, happiness and
peace, and an exaltation in the kingdom of
God; to be ever humble and prayerful, that
they may oyercome the evil and cleave to
the good. Then with joy at seeing upon each
face a determination to give heed to your
words you close your eyes, not in death, but
into that rest that you so much need. Could
not some of us profit by this dream while we
are still spared to dwell together?
							DORCAS.


PRAISE	THE LORD.

     "Praise the Lord, oh my soul, and in every
thing, give thanks,” is written somewhere.
Shall we not as monuments of God’s mercy re-
member these sayings and apply them in our
lives and in our actions? What privileges do
we not enjoy above the women of the world,
whether high or low, rich or poor? God is our
friend, His protecting hand is over us for good.
The Savior promised his children that peace,
which the world can neither give or take away,
with all its power, its boasted arrogance and
wealth. The humble Latter-day Saint would
not exchange places with any of the great ones
of this earth, and why? Because the true sat-
isfaction of knowing God for himself reigns
within his bosom. Truth is mighty and it
will prevail, that is the portion that feeds the
Saints day by day, and makes them rejoice
exceedingly in all that transpires, for God is
their friend; thus it is written: “As thy day
thy strength shall be.” He preserves our
brethren and sisters as they pass through fiery
trials of whatever name or nature they may
be. I rejoice in seeing our cause so bravely
fought inch by inch by the noble of the earth
whom Satan is trying to devour; but we know
that God Omnipotent reigneth, and He will
subdue his enemies under his feet.
     God bless all Israel, and bless you, our dear
Editor, and your co-workers is my prayer.
								B.M.


36				WOMAN’S EXPONENT
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	.	.	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN’s EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	 AUGUST 1, 1883.


THE COMING ELECTION.

	The August election is close at hand, and is
certainly quite an important event. The
Woman's Journal of Boston (which, by the way,
has had a great deal to say lately on the Utah
question) says, "the August election will prove
an important crisis in the struggle against poly-
gamy.	*	*	The issue will come home
more directly to the people than did the elec-
tion of a congressional delegate last fall." The
journal knows very little, seemingly, about Utah
matters, notwithstanding all the recent visits
of correspondents and editors to Salt Lake.
There is no need of any fears on the part of the
people's pary here, nor any cause for rejoicing
on the part of those, who desire to see the
"Mormons" who have settled this country and
made it possible for them to live here and amass
fortunes, lose all the rights of American citizens
after redeeming the desert. There are plenty of
legal voters for the people's party after all are ex-
cluded that the interpretation of the Edmund's
bill by the Commissioners could possibly dis-
franchise. The Federal officials, registration
officers and judges of election have been very
particular to hunt up every pretext against any
and every "Mormon," to hinder the polling of
votes by the people's party, but with all their
diligence they will not succeed in their efforts
to gain the possession of the offices and the
treasury of the Territory. They must wait a
little longer, and while they are waiting the
"Mormon" population will increase so rapidly
that the end of their waiting will be woe to all
their hopes.
	The Lord has given this land to His people,
and He will hold them responsible if they do
not maintain their rights to its possession by
being on the alert to preserve the freedom that
is so essential to the life and happiness of Ame-
rican citizens. Every man and every woman
that has the privilege of voting should consider
it a sacred duty. It is just as much a duty as it
is to pray. But so far as the election settling
the question of plural marriage, the Journal is
far astray. The Federal officials here care less
about that principle than the world imagines.
They want to get possession of the Territory,
divest the "Mormon" people of all rights, civil,
political and religious, and drive them from
their inheritances, if they will not submit their
consciences to them. Let the people be wise,
prayerful and vigilant, strong in maintaining
their integrity to God and the Constitution of
their country, and all will be well. The race
that is growing up in these mountain fastnesses
are abundantly endowed, by Nature, with the
tenacity of purpose, and the determination to
maintain the rights of the people who first
planted their feet upon this desert land ere it
passed into the hands of the United States gov


emment, and they will assert their rights at the,
polls by voting for those men who will honor
the positions they are elected to fill, and defend
the rights of the men and the women who
have, by their industry and intelligence, made
the country desirable, although many of these
noble citizens are now denied any political priv-
ileges.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A VENERABLE WOMAN will be continued in
our next number. The manuscript having been
burned, there is some delay in getting the items.
	MISS EMMA ATKIN, daughter of George At-
kin, of Tooele City, is now spending her vaca-
tion at her home, after two years study in the
Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia. She 
has passed her examination in the first regular
course of study. Last year she spent her vaca-
tion in study with a class in elocution, in Coburg,
Canada. She will return to Philadelphia this
fall to pursue her medical studies, and graduate
as an M. D. She is a bright, intelligent girl,
and has all the necessary natural ability to suc-
ceed in the profession. Utah has just reason to
be proud of its young lady graduates.
	JOTTINGS BY THE WAY.—Is the title of a
neat little pamphlet of about 70 pages, by George
W. Johnson, St. George, Utah, containing songs
and poems, mostly of a religious tone, and some
prose articles that are very interesting. The
Johnsons were connected with the Church as
early as 1831; they are from the State of New
York, though the parents were from Massachu-
setts.
	Most of the poems are very good indeed, and
evince considerable poetic talent as well as a
mind clear to comprehend truth and the high-
er elements of human character. We see noth-
ing in it to condemn, and therefore commend it
to the Saints everywhere as worthy a place in
their libraries.
	NEW CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.—Dr. Romania B.
Pratt announces by advertisement that she will
commence a new class in midwifery on October
8th, at one o'clock p.m., at her office, over
Godbe, Pitts and Co's drug store. Her school in
this important branch of medicine, was estab-
lished in 1878, and has been eminently success-
ful, she having instructed two classes a year
from that time. Dr. Pratt is not only conver-
sant with the theory of the subject in its details,
but her active practical experience adds an im-
portant feature to her power to communicate
correctly all necessary information to her pupils.
Mrs. Pratt's office is pleasant and central, and as
the whole time is spent upon the subject in
hand, the student is enable to go to work
at once. The rooms are elegantly and conven-
iently fitted up for the course of lectures, and
she has all the needful apprutanances pertaining
to this branch of science, charts, manikin, etc.
Students from a distance can, by taking rooms
and boarding themselves, get along on compara-
tively limited expense. For terms see adver-
tisement.


OLD LETTER.
[EXTRACTS OF A LETTER WRITTEN BY EDWARD
	PARTRIDGE, FIRST BISHOP OF THE CHURCH
	OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS,
	TO HIS PARENTS AND FRIENDS IN MASSA-
	CHUSETTS OCT. 22ND, 1834.]

	I want you to be saved in the third heaven, or
Celestial Kingdom of God. This kingdom is
reserved for the Church of the First Born, even
those who have come up through much tribula-
tion. This is the kingdom that a man cannot
see unless he is born again; this is the kingdom
that a man cannot enter except he is born of
water and the Spirit; this is the kingdom a man
must forsake all things for. He must have
faith sufficient to even lay down his life for it if
required. I have forsaken the world for this
kingdom, and how soon I shall be called upon
to lay down my life for the sake of Christ I
know not; but if it ever be required of me I hope
I may have fortitude to withstand the trial and
not deny the Lord that brought me.
	Notwithstanding you are honest unto man I
ask, are you honest to God in all things? If not,
have a conscience void of offense before
Him? I leave you to answer these questions
yourselves. I can assure you it is not a trifling
thing to give up all for Christ's sake, to be will-
ing to even lay down our lives in His cause. I
know more about these things than I did when
I saw you last. I have been in the hands of a
wicked mob, and knew not but they would kill
me. I have even sat in my house for hours
with the door open, expecting the mob to take
me the second time, when one of their leaders
had sworn that I should die that day, or he
would. You may judge for yourselves what
were my feelings. I can say I felt composed,
and was determined to lay down my life if God
required it.
	I knew they had no power only as it was
granted unto them. I have seen the mob by
hundreds, armed, and to all appearances ready
to destroy men, women and children. Compan-
ies on horseback passing the houses of women
and children where there was no man. threaten-
ing the lives of all who did not clear out before 
night. They appeared to me more like fiends of
hell than men. Priests headed at least two of
those companies. I do not know but the revela-
tion of those scenes will more than ever con-
vince you that I am not sane; but be it so, you
must have your own opinion. I know I am not
deluded. I suppose you think that you would
not persecute any people as we have been 
persecuted. Take heed then that you do not op-
pose this work, for when the Lord withdraws
His spirit you know not what you may be left
to do. The Savior told his disciples that the
day would could that those who would put them
to death would think they were doing God's
service. And verily I say unto you they that
are not for us are against us; and the day will
come when all parties will join together as they
 did in Jackson Co. to oppose the truth and put
down the people of God. Therefore, I say, take
heed to yourselves lest, peradventure, you are
fighting against God. Christ and his Apostles
were never know to persecute, but bore all
things which that wicked generation was
pleased to put upon them. From this we learn
that those who have the Spirit of Christ never
persecute, but are always persecuted, as we may
learn both from sacred and profane history.
The Bible says, they that have not the Spirit of
Christ are none of His. Here is a criterion
whereby we may judge ourselves. I once more
entreat you to carefully examine this subject;
make not a hasty judgement, for truth will bear
an investigation. Spare no pains to ascertain the
truth, and remember that the Spirit of Christ
leadeth into all truth. Throw aside all prejudice
and remember that one truth is worth a thou-
sand errors. If you are wise you are wise for
yourselves; and may the Lord help you by His
Holy Spirit, that you may be wise in time, that
in eternity we may meet in the Celestial King-
dom of God to spend an eternity in His
presence.


PIONEER DAY.
The Twenty Fourth of July, Pioneer Day.
A Sabbath for the Saints. Blessed be the day
forever. Many thoughts crowd themselves into
my mind this morning. The contrast of thirty-


[Column 1]
﻿six and forty years ago. Well might the Pio-
neers shout from the fulness of their hearts,
when their eyes first beheld the broad acres of
this beautiful valley. They saw in vision the
future home of the Saints loom up in beauty
and grandeur; they saw a safe retreat from their
oppressors; they viewed with pleasure the lofty
mountains; the limped water flowing down
through the rugged canyons; and notwithstand-
ind the aspect of the country generally was for-
bidding, even that was in their favor, for no one
was so greedy as to desire its prssession in those
days. Here was a place for the Saints to rest
their weary feet; here was ground to stand upon;
here was water to drink and sagebrush to burn;
and with the few pounds of flour, and perhaps a
few ounces of sugar and tea. What more could
a people want? Well the peace and protective
influence that pervaded the place supplied the
lack of other things, for surely the people were
destitute of almost every earthy comfort. How
could it be otherwise, after being driven from
their homes and possessions time after time?
I look back upon the early days of this church;
the days in Nauvoo; when the Prophet Joseph
was with us; when he taught ME the principles
of plural marriage; my obedience to the same;
the varied circumstances attending it; his cruel
death; our exodus from our homes in the cold
winter, and the incidents attending our journey
in the wilderness; our arrival in these valleys.
I look with wonder upon the change that has been
wrought in the comparatively few years that
have past since we first arrived here; and I ex-
claim, "Surely the Lord's protecting hand has
been over this people!" In the days of Nauvoo
the holy order of celestial marriage was in its in-
fancy; it was not taught publicly, consequently
the people generally did not know of it. After
we crossed the Mississippi River it was not con-
sidered necessary to any longer conceal it. I
remember after crossing the river I sat myself
upon a fallen tree with my babe in my arms;
the snow was falling in large flakes, thick and
fast. I was cold and hungry, for food and cloth-
ing were scarce, and much had to be done before
comfortable quarters could be provided. Many
eyes were turned upon me, or rather upon my
baby; some with favor and some with disfavor
or contempt. Spiteful things were said, and the
oppressive influence that hovered over and
around me was so distressing that it seemed as
though I must sink; but God has sustained me
through it all.
	Spiritual wives, as we were then termed, were
not very numerous in those days, and a spiritual 
baby was a rarity indeed. On our journey from
Nauvoo the Saints would stop and form small 
settlements to recruit. I stopped at one of these
places a short time. Company after company
passed, and many hearing that a "spiritual wife
and child" were there, curiosity led them to
seek an interview. All pronounced the child
a bright and beautiful boy, the hondsomest child
they ever saw. And it was a child too born in
that despised relation called plural marriage.
Well, time has proved that all who professed to
be Saints were not Saints. Some did not like
that peculiar religious principle, although they
pretended so to do.
	I remember when my babe was about eighteen
months old I took him to a neighbors', one
woman looked at him and said, "Well, that is
the smartest spiritual child I ever saw." Another
lady asked her if she did not think spiritual
children were as smart as other children. She
answered she did not. I had my own thoughts.
Was it consistent to think the Lord would com-
mand his people to adopt a system of marriage
that would degenerate the mind of the human
species? I could not see it in that light. Well,
[...] those days the principle was new and strange,
[Column 2]
and so different from our traditions and the cus-
toms of our former lives, that we cannot wonder
that some balked a little. The contrast of to-
day and thirty-six years ago is very great in 
many respects. All know how it is to-day; but
few know how it was then. Now we see thrift
and plenty. The people have good homes and
an abundance of the comforts of life. Then it
was poverty and privation, toil and hardship.
But few children had been born in the celestial
order of marriage; now a great portion of this
territory is peopled with men and women born
in the order of plural, or celestial marriage,
with large families born and growing up in the
same holy order of matrimony, being taught in
all the pure principles of the Gospel. Truly the
Lord's hand is over this people for good. Blessed
be the name of the Lord.
								E. Dow.
	Salt Lake City, July 24th, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NAUVOO THE BEAUTIFUL. 

[ON BOARD THE STEAMER PITTSBURG ON THE
MISSISSIPPI RIVER.]
LEAVING NAUVOO July 25th, 1883. 

MY OWN DEAR MOTHER:
	I tried so hard to write last night, but was so
tired that I fell asleep when I was writing.
Belle and I left St. Louis on the railway train
after eight o'clock on the evening of the 23rd,
and arrived at Montrose, Iowa, at five a.m. We
had such a day yesterday, such tramping
around that at night when we did stop we were
perfectly worn out. I was delighted with Nau-
voo. It is really a beautiful place, but such
stillness, such death-like silence, I never
dreamed of; they call it "The deserted City,"
and it is well named. Its situation is more
picturesque than anything I ever saw, and it
has such a weird, sad attraction about it for me,
that my eyes constantly filled with tears in spite
of all my efforts to keep them back. It was a
cool gray morning that we arrived at Montrose,
and the river was very quiet. We crossed in a
boat, and waited on the other side until our fel-
low traveler could go and find Mr. Smith and
his spring wagon to take us up to the hotel; he
soon came back with the old gentlemen and his
wagon. We rode up quite slow, so very slow,
that often I had to watch a stone or some object
on the ground to tell whether we were really
moving or not. However we did not mind, for
we had a splendid chance to look around at the
green fields, vineyards and beautiful hedges,
and the old tumbled down houses. Mr. Smith
pointed out to us several places where people
had lived whom we knew very well; it was very 
affecting. I thought of your sufferings, how 
perhaps you had gone through these same
streets, and of all the sorrow and trouble you
had known right there when you were so young.
It seemed like a dream that I, your youngest
daughter, should be so blessed as to have the
privilege of seeing all these same places. We
arrived at the German Hotel, called the Temple
House, about six o'clock Tuesday morning, July
24th; every one around us was German, but of
course they could all speak a little English.
	The house faced the north, and we had a nice,
large, quiet room up stairs with a porch in front,
and from it we could see where the old Temple
used to stand; we were exactly one block east of
it across the street. We had breakfast and be-
fore we went up to our room again, went up to
see what was left of the Temple, but where it
once stood is a nice, new, frame house, and the
store on the south west corner of the block is
built entirely of the Temple rock; it is as 
smooth and white as ever, and they say it does

[Column 2]
not wear away one particle. This store is used
for a drug store and post office, and is very
large, 100 ft. by 30. Ever so many foundations
and houses around there seemed to be made of 
this same rock, and several here have carriage
steps made of it, how we envied them; from
there we went one block east, and saw a very
little square house, built of the same rock, we
went in among the trees, it was a perfect grove,
and found that this was the city park, and the
little house was used as a sort of store house.
A man who was working in the park told us
that Mrs. Clark, who lived on the hill, could tell
us who had lived in all the old houses, but he
knew nothing, so we left him and started for
Mrs. Clark's; we went in several old houses to
inquire the way there.  * * The houses
are almost all occupied by Dutch people; we at
last found Mrs. Clark and her two widowed
daughters; they were very pleasant, and so kind
to us. We were a long time deciding whether
to go in or not, but we thought if we were not
courageous enough for that we would not find
out anything so (we braced up) so to speak, and
went in, and as I have already said, they were
very kind, and insisted on our stopping to dinner;
she went out with us and showed us where the
rest of the Temple rock was that had been
bought by Mr. Ritter, a very rich old man; one
of the daughters went over with us, and we saw
all there was to see, hunted round for a piece
with carving on, but only found one of those
immense heads, and it was perfect; the stone
was scattered over the whole block, and he has
sold a great deal; it hardly seemed possible there
could have been so much in the building. One
large piece with carving on, he sold to a man
from Chicago for $300, and he would not sell
that head for less; he gave us some small speci-
mens. We had dinner, and then, accompanied
by the two girls, walked down through the
beautiful fields, and passed the hedges (I never
saw anything so pretty as the hedges) to hunt
up some places, first we called on a Mrs. Ravel,
not knowing what she was. They told us she
knew so much, and she did, but much it was,
too many lies, a perfect hornet's nest, and we got
out as soon as possible; from there we came first
to Uncle Joseph Young's house, and it is a 
beautiful place! The largest evergreens I ever
saw, a fountain and a great many flowers; the
house, they said, was almost the same; two
story brick, with frame top, with little windows
and green shutters. From there we saw Brig-
ham Young's old house, story and a half brick—
west wing looks old, but there are some people
living there. We next went to the most interest-
ing place, the old Nauvoo Mansion. Mrs. Hudson
lives there. She took us through the house.
We first went in the parlor, with its large,
black mantle-piece; next the long dining-room,
where they told us they brought Joseph after he
was killed. * * *
*	It was full of old things, some china,
and everything was old all over. * * *
From there went to the kitchen where the old
well was, and had a drink out of the same old
well. They told us there had been no change
made in any part of the house. The water was
refreshing. * * We saw at the right
hand side of the kitchen the room that Mother
Smith had occupied; everything looked very old
and worn out. She took us up stairs into the
Prophet Joseph's room and into the closet where,
it is said, he used to hide, but she could not open
the secret door that leads up on the roof; she
told us of it, and said her son knew how to do it,
but we saw no door; we went in all the rooms,
and saw the same old stairs. Oh! how much we
thought of you, and wished you with us, but we
were afraid it would be too much for you. From
there we went to the Riverside Mansion, once
the "Nauvoo House," that was just started


[Column 1]
when you left. Some of it has been taken
down, and the main building is finished, or part-
ly so; Bydeman, once Emma Smith's husband,
and his wife live in it; its walls made me think 
of the Council House walls, they were so thick;
the first story is built of white stone just like the
Temple, and the walls of the first floor of one of
the wings of the same stone is still standing, it
alone is 123 ft. long, so you can imagine how
long they intended it to be. The other stories
are of brick, and all speak of how remarkable,
it is, that they should have stood so long. The
staircase is of walnut. The river is just a few
steps from the west door; the oak trees are still
standing; trumpet vines and the flowers have
climbed to the top, and looks beautiful. We 
bought a picture of Joseph Smith, and saw pic-
tures of the whole family. In their parlor was
the old secretary owned by Hyrum Smith, and
it is elegant, but very old fashioned; an old
checker table that Joseph owned, also a bureau
that was very handsome, and an old center
table elegantly carved. We then went across 
the street to Joseph's old home and drank out of
that old well too, and saw the grave-yard. The
house is just the same old house. *
*		We saw where they said he and his
brother lay; the grave is between two locust
trees; we also saw the little fruit frame
that stood over the grave for years; next we 
saw his old house, it was well preserved, not
used for anything. From there we went to
Aaron Johnson Esq's. old house. The old print-
ing office was moved away up the river, but we
saw the house, and went all through it. they
took the old fire-place away last winter, but the
rest is much the same; the sweetest young
married woman lived there; she was so kind,
and felt so sorry for us because we cried. She
had a sweet little baby about as large as Belle's,
with blue eyes. I cannot express my feelings
here, I was completely broken down, and could
think of nothing but you, my own sweet mother,
and of your sorrow. Next we went to H. C.
Kimball's, and it is a grand looking house; right
in the center of the old house is a white rock
about two yards in length with H. C. K, 1845, 
engraved upon it. There are some Germans liv-
ing in the house; they were very kind to us and 
took us all through the house; we went in the
large room * *	and the two bedrooms;
up stairs in all the rooms, and into the third
story, and up on to the observatory; there is the
most beautiful view from there I ever saw. I
thought of Aunt Helen, and I don't blame her
for speaking so often of her home, for it is beau-
tiful. I brought her a piece of a large evergreen.
They have built a wing on and the whole
place looks lovely; there is also a large block of
redstone on the east side of the house with the
same ingraving on. Next we went to where
Belle's father, Bishop Whitney, lived; the house
is all gone, and the prettiest place in Nauvoo
stands on the ground where his home stood; the
old back steps were there still. Then we went
to what used to be the old graveyard; some of 
the old graves are still left in the people's lots,
and others are moved to the new cemetery.
From there we went back to the hotel. Mr
Smith, the old man that took us around, told us
that all Joseph's prophecies had come true but
one, and that was about the "Mormons" coming
back. He said Joseph said it should become a
vineyard, and the Mormons should drink the
wine, and at that time there were no grapevines
there. Now it is indeed a beautiful vineyard;
miles and miles of grapevines and nothing else,
and we had some of the wine in St. Louis. He
also said it should be deserted, and should be as
a dead city; and oh, that is true! There is some-
thing about the death-like stillness that you
cannot express. I forgot to tell you that we went 

[Column 2]
out to Joseph Smith's farm and drank out of 
the very old well. Oh, such a day, I never ex-
pect to see anything like it again; such feelings,
ma; they are beyond all description. Every step
I took I wondered if you had ever been there,
and oh, how I did long to speak to you, and ask
you questions! It seemed as if you must be
there, and I would turn around to look. I never
had such a strange feeling. I could not find
father's house, but saw the Masonic Hall, where
they told me he once had his office, during some
trial, but there was an old gentleman, a Mr.
Morrell, that called on me last night, and was
to call this morning, that could have told me
everything, but we came away so early that I
could not see him again. We had to come on
this steamer for there was no telling when
there would be another, and we feel anxious to
get on our way esst. I should love to see you
all. There is never one moment that you are
not in our thoughts. I wanted so much to say
my letter was from Nauvoo, but it was so near,
just as we left, that I guess I might say so. * *
I do not forget any of you in my prayers, but
constantly pray for the health and safety of you
all. Give our love to all the folks and to all the
children. I shall try and write up my first
steam-boat ride for you. We are going from St.
Louis to Chicago, and then I expect to go direct
to Massachusetts. Good night, dear heart.
	Lovingly,
	LOUIS WELLS.


38	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BELLE HARRIS AND BABY.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I am brim full of contempt and disgust at
the actions and rulings of the grand jury,
prosecuting attorney and judges, the whole heap
of them, Senator Edmunds included; and if
you can find or imagine any words which can
more fully express my contempt consider them
said. It is a disgrace to the whole nation the
way they are abusing that noble woman, Belle
Harris and her baby. Never glory in being an
American citizen again. I was born in Englandl
so I wont have to share the odium that is fast
making the United States a biss and a bye word
amongst the Monarchial Governments of the
world. Don't talk about the Spanish Inquisition
or the Star Chamber after this abuse of an inno-
cent woman. If the United States are not in-
augurating a religious persecution against the
Latter-day Saints I am mistaken; (I know I am
not) they have taken the right of franchise for
doing that which was not an offence at the
time of commital; they drag women and babes
from their homes and put them in prison with-
out trial of any kind, because they refuse to
answer impudent questions; granting, for the
sake of argument, that she is a plural wife and
has children in the marriage relation, which I
don't know anything about never having seen
the lady, what right have they to make her
criminate herself; is this just? They would for-
bid such a question to a murderer or a bank rob-
ber, but she, poor thing, is a Mormon, that
makes all the difference. There is something
said in the Declaration of Independence, (a
noble instrument), about worshiping God ac-
cording to the dictates of our own conscience,
and "taxation without representation." Oh!
but that you don't mean you Mormons, Oh no! "We
the Federal officials, have power under the Ed-
munds Law to persecute you until you bend
your consciences to our august will. We, the
Federal officials, under the Edmunds Law, will
blot out of your souls every religious sentiment
that is obnoxious to the minority who dwell in
Utah; we mean to pop all women into the Peni-
tentiary who have children in the marriage rela-
tion that we don't approve of; we will confiscate


all your property that we desire, with or without
law; we will degrade your children all we can;
we will heap insult on insult upon you until
you revolt, then we will call on the military to
exterminate you; mobs have killed your prophets,
your men, women and children before, and may
do so again. The American Nation is a great
nation, but you are only a handful of poor de-
luded fools; we are going to get rid of you now;
you have made this country so that we can live
in it, and we intend to have it for us and the
minority to dwell in."
	Yes, you have done these things, and more;
you have insulted and imprisoned our best men,
women and children, and will continue to do so
until the Lord says, enough. Then woe, woe,
unto you, for the plagues, sorrows and desolation
that will fall on you and follow your footsteps
wherever you may go; you shall see your dear-
est hopes blasted and come to naught, and the
cup of sorrow you are pressing to the lips of the
Latter-day Saints you shall drain to the dregs,
for it is your wages; the measure you give you
shall receive.					MARY.
	Grantsville, July 27th, 1883.


IN MEMORIAM.

	By the death of Bishop L. E. Harrington a gloom has
been cast over our little city. Having been Bishop and
President since the organization of American Fork as a
branch of the Church, he has endeared himself to the
hearts and affections of the people to that extent that
they cannot fail to realize their loss keenly; neverthe-
less we acknowledge the hand of the Lord in our be-
reavement, and feel to say, "Thy will be done."
	Leonard E. Harrington was born January 27th, 1815,
at New Lisbon, Oswego Co., New York. Embraced the
Gospel in 1842, and gathered with the Saints at Nau-
voo; shared in the persecutions of the Saints, and ar-
rived in Salt Lake City in September, 1847, having
crossed the plains in the first company of families that
came. In 1850 he became one of the first settlers of
American Fork, and has never ceased to labor for the
interest of his ward as Bishop, counselor, father and
friend until his demise, which occurred June 21st, 1883.
The funeral was the largest one ever witnessed in this,
place.
	At a special meeting of the Relief Society of Ameri-
can Fork the following resolutions were unanimously
adopted:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father, in his infinite wis-
dom, has seen fit to call from our midst our beloved
friend and brother, Bishop Leonard E. Harrington, and,
	Whereas, We miss his kind and fatherly counsels,
realize that in him we have lost a firm friend, a man of
God, and one who was loyal to the cause of his religion,
and that of his country. A true friend of woman, who
did not hesitate, in his unflinching integrity, to plead
her cause in the Legislature of the Territory, in Conven-
tion and in every place and at all times, whenever op-
portunity presented itself, Therefore, be it resolved,
	That we, the Relief Society of American Fork, do
deeply deplore the loss of our beloved Bishop, Leonard
E. Harrington, and that we truly sympathize with the
bereaved family in their great affliction, and pray our
Heavenly Father to console them in their great be-
reavement, and be unto them an ever present help in
every time of need.
				MARY FINDLEY, President,
				EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Secretary.

	On Tuesday, June 12th, Mrs. Janet Gibson died sud-
denly at Bishop Sharp's, in the home of her daughter
Mrs. Annie G. Sharp. Deceased was the widow of
Elder Wm. Gibson, who labored for many years as a
missionary in the old country and also in America.
Deceased was born in Johnston, Renfrewshire Co., Scot-
land, October, 1813, her maiden name was Nichol.
	She was married to Wm. Gibson December 6th, 1881, in
Paisley. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints at Paisley, November 24th
1840, by Elder Francis Sprowl. During the time Bro. and
Sister Gibson remained in Edinburgh afrer they received
the Gospel, Brother Gibson was almost constantly en-
gaged in promoting the spread of the principles of
truth, and temporal affairs were a secondary considera-
tion. Sister Gibson labored faithfully in domestic af-
fairs, and was also zealous in spiritual things, always


advocating the principles of the Church. Their house
was always open to the Elders and to the local Saints
as a place of meeting and a home of hospitality.
Indeed they were generous to a fault, and willing to
deprive themselves that they might feed and clothe
those who were proclaiming the plan of salvation.
	In January, 1851, Bro. and Sister Gibson left Scot-
land for America on board the ship George W. Bourne.
Their family then consisted of two sons and two daugh-
ters, David, Annie, Jeanette and William. They were
ten weeks making the voyage across the Atlantic. Bro.
Gibson had charge of the company of Saints who came
across at that time. They went to St. Louis first and
remained there about two years, and Bro. Gibson pre-
sided over that branch a part of the time. Sister Gib-
son was like a mother to the younger Saints in that
branch of the Church. In May, 1851, while living in
St. Louis Sister Gibson had another daughter born, and
she named her Catharine. In May, 1853, the family left
St. Louis to gather with the Saints in the Valley. At
Loup Fork, a point not far from the Missouri River, the
little girl born in St. Louis died, and of course she had
to be buried by the way-side, which to a tender mother
such as Sister Gibson, was a very severe ordeal.
	The family arrived in the valley, and located in
Salt Lake City. Here some time subsequent,
Brother Gibson entered upon the practice of plural
marriage, and Sister Gibson went hand and hand with
her husband sustaining him and acting the part of a
loyal wife and a mother to the younger wives. In
no other way could Sister Gibson have so faithfully
proved her devotion to the principle as in the noblil-
ty with which she received to her home and heart the
wives taken in the patriarchal order of marriage. In
this she displayed that true heroism that elevates the
women of this Church and places them on a more
exalted platform than the women of the world. In
1867 Sister Gibson went with her husband on the Mud-
dy mission, where she endured much hardship and pri-
vation. At one time they had their house and every-
thing in it burned. In 1871 Bro. Gibson went on a mis-
sion to Philadelphia, while there he had a stroke of
paralysis and Sister Gibson went herself to Philadelphia
to bring him home. Her affection for her husband was
indeed unselfish. For the three years following she de-
voted herself to him night and day as if he had been a
child, for he required the same care and attention. In
1881 she went to St. George to do some work in the
Temple, and while there she attended to the ordinances
for the dead of her ancestry and that of her husband,
which was a great satisfaction and comfort to her.
	Sister Gibson was an exemplary Latter-day Saint,
always regular in attendance at meetings and greatly
interested in the Relief Societies and the Y. L. M. I. A.,
taking part in the exercises, ready and willing to testi-
fy to the truth at all times when called upon. She was a
fire-side teacher. Shs loved to speak of the principles
of the Gospel and explain them to the young or to
those in doubt. She was beloved by the young people
of her acquaintance, for she possessed that adaptability
that won their affections,
	She was, as it was remarked by one of the brethren
who spoke at her funeral, amiable in the highest de-
gree, patient, long suffering and kind, tender, forgiv-
ing and benevolent. Although she was a very unassum-
ing person, she was a woman who had read a great deal
and was intellectual in character. She was possessed
of true Christian charity, which caused her to over-
look weaknesses and encourage the weak and err-
ing in the path of right. Her whole soul was
in the Latter-day work, and she departed full of
zeal, having been ever faithful in all things in
fulfilling duties and responsibilities, even under the 
most trying and peculiar circumstances. She leaves only
one daughter, Mrs. Annie G. Sharp, and seven grand-
children to mourn her loss. "Blessed are the dead who
die in the Lord, yea, from henceforth they rest from their
labors and their works do follow them." E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 39


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY 
REPORTS.
RICHMOND.

DEAR EDITOR:
*		*		*		*		*		*
	On June 4th we held our Annual Meeting; we
convened in our new Relief Society Meeting
House, which was  also dedicated at the same
time. Many of the brethren met with us on

[Column 2]
﻿this occasion. Bishop M. M. Merrill offered
the dedicatory prayer, which seemed to include
every blessing asked that could be desired to
be poured out upon not only those who had
been most energetic in its building and
rendered aid, but all the surroundings
thereof.
	The brethren praised our efforts and bid us
be united, thanked us for our aid in helping
the poor and visiting the sick, and for every
good word and work, that we should and had
performed. The financial report was read and
found to be satisfactory; inasmuch as we
have a building and appurtanances thereto,
worth $1,300, and our indebtedness on the
same something over $200, which we are now
trying to liquidate as fast as possible; besides
striving to fulfil our duty as helps to the needy.
President Merrill with her counselors, ever
desires the welfare of our valuable WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. Please accept our kind regards. 
		We remain, yours in the Gospel,
				A. J. MERRILL, President,
				B. BROWER, Secretary.
	July 22nd, 1883.

WASHAKIE.

	Minutes of the organization of the Primary
Association by E. R. S. Smith:
	"We thank Thee O God for a Prophet" was
sung by the children, after which Sister Snow
offered up prayer. The children sang, "In
our Lovely Deseret." Sister Fulena H. Zun-
dell was chosen President and unanimously sus-
tained; Eliza Ward and Elmira Pall, as Coun-
selors, were unanimously sustained; Phoebe
Zundell, as Secretary, was also unanimously
sustained; Sister Haddon T. Ward was sus-
tained as Treasurer of the Primary Associa-
tion. Number of names enrolled, 23.
	Sister Zundell gave out notice of the next
meeting, to be held on Wednesday, at four
o'clock.
	The congregation sang "O my Father," and
the benediction was pronounced by Elder Al-
phonso H. Snow.				P. ZUNDELL,
								Secretary.

JUAB PRIMARY.

	A report of the Conferenoe of the Primary
Association of Juab Stake of Zion. The
Primary Conference of Juab Co. held their
Seventeenth Quarterly Conference on Satur-
day a.m., June 24th, in the meeting house. The
meeting was called to order by Stake Presi-
dent, Hannah Grover. Singing. Prayer by
President Paxman.  Singing, "Great is the
Lord." Then the legal transactions were gone
through with satisfactorily.
	The different Associations composing the
conference were represented by their respective
presidents. Each showed  that the generality
of the young people are alive to their religious
duties, and are endeavoring to serve God ac-
cording to the best knowledge they possess.
	A portion of the remaining time was occu-
pied by some of the members of the Primary
in an interesting and pleasant manner, with
songs, recitations, etc. After the conclusion
of the exercises some of the elder people who
were present addressed those gathered. Each
spoke of the noticeable improvement of the
children belonging to the Primary Associa-
tions. In the conclusion of their remarks the
speakers exhorted them to pay attention to the
instructions and to treasure up the knowledge
given them by their able presidents, as the
knowledge thus gained would be of great use
to them in after years. 
	After spending a pleasant time the meeting
was closed by the choir singing an anthem.
Bishop Warner offered the benediction.
				L. ADDIE SCHOFIELD,
						Stake Secretary.


[Column 1]
THE 24TH OF JULY, 1883,

[AND CONSEQUENT REFLECTIONS.]

BY HANNAH T- KING

	July 24th, 1847, the pioneers entered upon
the site where now stands the beautiful
City of Salt Lake, named by the great histor-
ian, Burton, "The City of the Saints." But
it is July 24th, 1883, that I wish to make pal-
pable in a few thoughts that floated through my
mind while witnessing the celebration of that
day in the great Tabernacle, a day never to be
forgotten by young or old while memory holds
her seat; I wish I could do ample justice to the
subject, but I feel that I can but express
a moiety of all that passed through my mind
on that day while sitting as a unit among
many thousands that had congregated there-
in to take part in—or witness the performance.
It was a day especially for the exhibition of
the children, and I can say with truth they
formed a juvenile crowd that any nation
might be proud of--healthy, happy and most
intelligent; youth itself is beauty, therefore, of
course, it largely preponderated. 1,100 child-
ren varying from six to twelve must be ex-
ceedingly well trained to preserve order
throughout, but such was the case to a marvel-
ous degree; their musical education has been
under the training of Brother Evan Stephens,
and they demonstrated that it had been both
careful and laborious, he has indeed performed
a labor of love; and he must love labor to have
been enabled to accomplish so satisfactory a
denouement as we were charmed to witness on
the 24th; the children not only performed the
mechanical part well, but they evidently felt
the music of the soul throughout. I saw
many little feet beating exact time, as they
had been taught to do, and their flags (for each
child held a small star spangled banner)
seemed devoted to the same office; every piece
was admirably executed, and must have
thrilled the soul of the Master, who of course
held the baton. Brother Evan Stephens has
shown himself a public benefactor to the
children of the Latter-day Saints; the cultiva-
tion of music, like all the fine arts, is a refin-
ing, elevating science; a soul devoted to music,
and living in the cultivation of it, must live
and breathe an atmosphere of purity and ele-
vation of soul that no language could portray.
Brother Stephens has introduced our children
into this heavenly studio; he has given them a
taste of the grand and the beautiful, has
called out the faculty that lay dormant within
them—and which I trust will never be al-
lowed to die or even fade from out their souls;
for music cheers and soothes those who love it
is nothing else can; there is a heavenliness
about it that speaks to our spirit of the Great
Creator!—I watched those children closely,
and I felt I could distinguish in them, young
as they were, an appreciation of their kind
and indefatigable music-master, and I trust
they will never forget him, but remember him
in days to come as one who struck "the Harp
of a thousand strings," that the beneficent
Creator has placed in every human heart in a
greater or lesser degree; remember that he
awakened this in their young hearts, never I
trust to sleep again; he has strung the chords
to a harmonious tension, and through all com-
ing life its æolian strains will never cease to vi-
brate, but be as a lamp burning eternally on
their heart and brain, preserving them from
everything that is low and grovelling. God
bless and reward Brother Evan Stephens, and
may his life be preserved to carry out his mis-
sion among the Latter-day Saints.
	Then came the representatives of nations in
costume, and this must have been a work of la-
bor—some of the dresses were most elaborate
and costly; Elizabeth and Leicester, Napoleon


[Column 1]
and Josephine, the Goddess of Liberty and
Washington, and all were arranged with care
and exactness. The National Anthems of the
most prominent countries were rendered ap-
propriately, and had a thrilling effect upon
that vast multitude, for it was as a voice of
childhood and youth, which music so thrilling-
ly awakens. I thought I had no nation-
ality left in me, but when "Rule Britania"
struck up its soul-thrilling tones there came a
choking feeling in my throat, that had not
tears flown out of my eyes I might—had I
known how—gone off into a faint or some-
thing as foolish, but when the "Star Spangled
Banner" was played I felt the same sensation,
which reconciles me to myself, for I love my
adopted country with a true and loyal devo-
tion, and have never desired to leave her for
a moment, but grateful hearts should remem-
ber old friends and associations. Miss Cole-
brook sang the "Star Spangled Banner" "with
her soul in her glance." Miss Agnes Olsen
was as she always is, sweet, modest and unpre-
tending; her voice speaks for itself. Miss
Druce and Mrs. Swan Hull are ever charm-
ing, and our dear old charmer, Mrs. Sarah
Olsen Langford, was so kind as to give us a
pleasing reminiscence—'tis vain to attempt to
enumerate, I have not room, but all did well;
and every arrangement was admirable, and
shewed mind and ability. I am not a judge
of the bagpipes, but if "the concord of sweet
sounds" can be infused into it Brother Dunbar
is the one to do it, for he has a soul for music,
and has rejoiced our hearts in Lang Syne,
when President Young would rise up in the
Tabernacle and call out, "Brother Dunbar,
come to the stand and give us "Oh Zion."
And the whole assembly would catch the in-
spiration, so powerful is the charm of music
that speaks volumes in a few moments to
every heart, speaking in their own tongue.
Music is certainly one of the voices of God!
Who does not know it? Could Bro. Dunbar
have given us the volume that opened before
him as he played his bagpipes he would have
become a second Orpheus, but at present our
best thouhts will not live, even upon our own
lyre.
	Brother Goddard, the indefatigable
Brother Goddard was as he always is, untir-
ing in helping on every good cause, especial-
ly that of the children, Sunday Schools, et
cetera. Long may he live to fill his place in
his own admirable way.
	As I sat among the assembled thousands on
that morning I felt my surroundings were a
glimpse of the grand and fondly anticipated
Future, and for a few moments I gave my
imagination full scope and believed an Ideal
of the Hereafter was before and around me!
And as Brother Cannon made his few but
touching remarks a wide field of thought
opened before me. He described the scene 36
years ago when two beings entered upon the
site where now stands our beantiful Metropolis!
Then a carpet of sage brush covered the earth,
and the ever glorious firmament canopied the
scene. I imagined their thoughts and feelings!
I saw them spring from their horses and throw
themselves upon their knees, I could hardly
fancy they were capable of words, but the at-
titude and the adoring eyes needed no words,
they were in themselves a mighty thanksgiv-
ing. They had escaped from taunting, mur-
derous mobs, and now stood free, as they had
never been before; no power around them but
that of God and angels! Think of it! realize
as I did their situation at that moment! It
was the reward of a life! it was a grand, a
sublime moment, and silence spoke trumpet-
tongued! There has been many moments of
like description witnessed by this people with-
in the last forty years; they know in whom
they trust; they know for themselves that God
is with them—and with the wise and good es-

[Column 2]
pecially, and with the leaders most especially
Oh, may we all live to be worthy of such
holy, snch especial guardianship, such especial
revelations! May July 24th, 1883, be a start-
ing point for increased vigilance, for increased
watchfulness of SELF, that we may have power
to call down an increasing approval, and that
the work of the last days may roll with in-
creasing rapidity, that the winding up scene
may come.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The National Educational Assembly, which
is to meet at Ocean Grove, N. J., in August,
has some live questions before it: “National
Aid to Common Schools,” “The Negro in
America,” “The Mormon Question,” and the
“Indian Question."—Ex.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50	"

	MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of the Deseret National Bank, and a half
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bct. 2d and 3d North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Childrens's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH.
19TH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

SCHOOL IN MIDWIFERY.

DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT
COMMENCES a new class in her office over Godbe &
Pitts' Drug Store October 8th, at 1 o'clock p.m.
This school was established in 1878. The Term of five
months, three lectures per week, is a practical course
for those who desire to enter at once into this work. It
is advised that those whose circumstances will admit,
attend a second course, for the subject is so comprehen-
sive that a repetition of the lectures is very advan-
tageous, especially to those of limited education.
	Other branches of medicine are taught only as they
bear especially upon this subject. More than that in so
limited a course would be too superficial. Manikin,
charts and instruments are used in teaching.
Tuition..................................................$30.00
Books...................................................$13.00
N. B.—Orders for books must be sent in early so as to
get them from the east in time.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
LACES, RUGHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLAS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods,
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

