VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1883.	No. 3.


THE ARTIST CHILD.

"What are you doing, Bosque?"
	Gently he turned his head,
And I saw 'neath his little fingers
	Pencil and paper spread.
"And may I see your picture?"
	Then as he gave it to me
A shade came over the drooping face
	'Twas pitiful to see.

And then a thrill went through me,
	For I that place had seen,
Its walls loom up and seem to blot
	The valley wide and green.
And yet I asked him gently,
	"What do you call this place?"
"Its where they are keeping my father;"
	And turned away his face.

Six years old! But upon his head
	And in his childish breast,
That which would weigh a man's strong heart
	Upon his life doth rest.	
Think of it! While his comrades
	Played at their game of ball,
He, scarce more than a babe, sat alone,
	Sketching a prison wall!

Pictures for memory! Look,
	What will they be for him?
Those gloomy walls will unshaken stand
	When fairer scenes are dim.
Sunk in his soul's deep silence,
	Who can the growth foretell,
When years from now shall this artist paint
	The woes of Israel.

Christendom, reading bibles—
	Boast the advance you've made—
Again in the walls of our masters
	Our children's hearts are laid.
Heroes who left to us freedom!
	Look down on us to-day,
Where tyranny's graft on Liberty's tree
	Wasteth its life away.

Brick for brick as they stand there—
	Tower, and gate, and lock—
Theres a wall in Israel's soul
	That doth the tyrant mock.
Closer they stand together,
	Nor doubt, nor shrink to go
Through waters deep, and fear none but Him
Who will o'erwhelm the foe.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
May 22nd, 1883.


[Column 1]
THOUGHTS ON MARRIAGE.

	The May 15th number of the EXPONENT
contains an article entitled, "Young Ladies and
Matrimony," which I think every young lady
should read, and follow the advice there given.
The writer says, "a woman who marries a man
that is her inferior, wrongs herself, her family,
and her whole life, for he will most likely drag
her down to his level." It must be so in the
very nature of things. A woman who has no
other object or aim than to live the life of a
true Latter-day Saint, and work out for herself
an exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom of God,
and feels the full weight of the responsibility
which she takes upon herself when she enters
into the marriage covenant, to bear the souls
of men, heirs to the everlasting Priesthood,
makes no other calculation than to be one with
her husband in all things, for "except ye are
one ye are not mine," said our Savior. She
looks for a man who is faithful. She marries
one professing full faith in the gospel, profes-

[Column 2]
sing to be virtuous and good, knowing by her
course of conduct in life what standard he
must come up to in order to become her hus-
band, he is all that and more too, he has no
vices, if he has any bad habits she cannot find
them out, when he approaches her he is all
goodness; when she is united to him she strives
with all her might to be one with him in all
things, after she becomes better acquainted
with him and sees that he is not what he pro-
fesses to be, although her whole soul revolts at
the hypocrisy (for hypocrisy is always detesta-
ble to a pure mind) still she remembers the
covenants she has entered into with him, they
must not be lightly broken, although he may
ignore them every day she must cling to him
as long as there is a reasonable doubt in her
mind about whether she would be doing him
an injustice by leaving him; in trying honestly
before God to keep her covenants and be one
with him, she descends to his level, and until
she has strength to break loose from the in-
fluences by which she is surrounded and say,
"as for me I will serve the Lord," she is not
her natural self, she is influenced and directed
by him, as is right and proper, as I contend,
that when a woman finds out that a man is not
worthy of her love and obedience, she commits
a sin by living with him; and on the other
hand I think she is not justified and should
never separate herself from him until she is
satisfied of this fact beyond a doubt. Young
ladies will ask, how can we safely choose a
husband if men are so deceitful? There are
many safeguards thrown around the children
of the Latter-day Saints which those of
the world are not blest with. First, their
parents generally give them good counsel,
which if they heed will lead them in the path of
safety, then those to whom they wish to be uni-
ted, live in some ward or branch of the Church
where there are presiding officers who can
recommend them if they have been faithful in
the discharge of their duties in the church,
(and if they have not they had better have
nothing to do with them) then last, but not
least, there is the Holy Ghost, the Comforter,
that has been conferred upon every soul that
has been baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, by those holding
the authority of the Holy Priesthood, a con-
stant source of revelation to those who nourish
and cherish it and give heed to its promptings;
what! can young ladies receive revelations?
Yes; just as well as the President of the
Church, or the Bishop of a ward can in the
affairs that come within their sphere, but only
as pertains to their own affairs in life, and
what is of more importance to them than
choosing a partner for life? no! for time and
all eternity. Pray about it? Yes, is it not as
important the Lord should guide us in the
choice of a husband as it is that he should pro-
tect us through the day from accident, disease,
and death? Pray as well as watch. She says,
"marry for love, respect is all very well, and
that we should have and hold, but it will not
answer in place of affection." I agree with
her, but there is no lasting love that is not
based on respect, we may love a person for
their fancied virtues, and when we find an ab-
scence of them we lose the respect we enter-
tained for them, then love must die. "The
flower of love can never flourish except it is
moistened by the dews of admiration and res-
pect." Young ladies, do not think that you
alone are sufficient to make a selection, remem-

[Column 3]
ber that God is the father of your spirits and
the spirits of all men; He knows their hearts,
their most seeret thoughts, their aims, their
principles, and he knows yours also, he knows
the end from the beginning, he knows whom
you are fitted to mate with, he is the best
match-maker that I know of. Trust him and he
will not forsake you. Now some people (wise
people no doubt in some things) ridicule the
idea of love. (From being united to such de-
liver me." One of the greatest commandments
which our Father gave to his children was to
"Love the Lord our God with all our might,
mind and strength, and love our neighbors as
ourselves, (if this commandment was strictly
carried out we would love them better than we
do.) He so loved the world that he gave His
only Begotten Son as a ransom for us, He so
loved us that he created this beautiful earth
and placed us upon it, with our agency, the
privilege of doing as we pleased, commanding
us to do right, and keep his laws, but giving us
the power to rebel if we choose to do so, that we
might choose the good or the evil, that we may
by his help overcome our weaknesses and the
temptations of the adversary, rise in the scale
of intelligence, and finally become like Him,
and return home when we are fitted to enjoy
His presence and have finished our probation
here. Trials are necessary for our perfection,
and the Lord will try us, (if we are worthy of
trials) in whatever condition we may be
placed, but his grace is all sufficient.
	What among all the pleasures which this
world affords, can equal that of being sur-
rounded by loving kindred and friends, and
what has ever been revealed by our Father
that has given such exquisite joy as the knowl-
edge that husbands and wives who are united
together in the bonds of the new and everlast-
ing covenant will enjoy each others society,
not only "till death does them part," but
through all the countless ages of eternity, and
that instead of that love which they have for
each other growing dim with age, it will grow
brighter and stronger as our latent powers are
more fully developed and we assimilate more
to the likeness of Him who is the author of
our being. Why, it is the mainspring of all
other joys! I cannot believe that there can
be a perfect love that does not come from God,
and is not inspired by His Spirit.
	Oh! what can be more pitiable than the
condition of those who have no assurance of a
union with those they love beyond the grave.
What would eternal life be without the com-
panionship of loved ones? Eternal misery.
	Do not attempt to reform bad men; what
God has failed to do, and they have no dispo-
sition to do for themselves, you can never ac-
complish. Make yourselves worthy of the
best of men and then resolve with the help of
God to accept no other, nobler far would it be
to labor all your days and share with others;
accept plural marriage with a husband who
has been tried and proven, whose integrity to
the kingdom of God is known, and feel you
have made a success of your life, have accom-
plished the object for which you came here,
have secured eternal life, than fail in this and
gain the wealth of the world.		RUTH.


The Woman's Journal of June 16 ult., con-
tains an article concerning woman suffrage in
Utah, and refers to two other articles written
by ladies opposed to women voting.


14 

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following interesting events written by
my father as they transpired, will, no doubt,
be read with interest by the Latter-day
Saints.
	"Tuesday, December 9th. The Twelve
met in counsel at Willard Richards' with two
Catholics; Mr. Tucker of Quincy, and Mr.
Hamilton, of Springfield, who came to con-
tract for our city."
	"Wednesday, 10th. Father wrote—This
morning went up to the Temple in company
with my wife and Sister Whitney—the morn-
ing very fine but cold. * * Found
President B. Young and a number of the
brethren. * * About half past ten
it was reported that Priest Tucker and his as-
sociates were below, waiting an interview with
the Twelve and council. Mr. Tucker and Mr.
Hamilton were admitted into the upper rooms
of the Temple, accompanied by Bishop Joseph
Heywood, who gave the gentlemen an introduc-
tion to those present. The propositions of the
council in regard to the sale of our property
were presented to Mr. Tucker in writing, who
read them over and then handed them to Mr.
Hamilton, who also read them. The gentle-
men were then invited into President Young's
room—present, besides the Twelve, were
George Miller, John M. Bernhisel, Joseph L.
Heywood and William Clayton.
	Mr. Tucker made some observations respect-
ing the two main rooms of the Temple. * *
President Young replied and explained in re-
gard to that matter, also the pulpits, place for
the organ etc.,and also the side rooms. Mr.
Hamilton asked a question as to the disposal
of our public buildings. In answer to which
Elder Hyde read aloud the written proposi-
tion and offered some explanations. * * *
President Young remarked that we wished to
realize, from the sale of our property, sufficient
to take all our poor with us in a comfortable
manner. If he was alone he could take his
wife with him and make his way to the Pacific
with little difficulty, but at the same time he
did not wish to do it. He would rather have
his wagons and go with all the rest of the
church comfortably. Mr. Tucker said he
thought it would be wisdom to publish our
propositions in all the Catholic papers and lay
the matter plain before their people—should
also think it advisable for the Catholic Bishops
to send a competent committee to ascertain the
value of our property etc. At the same time
they would use all their influence to effect a
sale as speedily as possible—thinks they have
men in St. Louis; New York and other cities,
who could soon raise the amount we want, but
the time is so very short, he does not know
whether it can be done so soon. He then asked
if we would be willing to have our propositions
published in their papers. President Young
replied we should have no objections, providing
it was understood that we reserved the right to
sell when we had the chance—Elder P. P.
Pratt thought it would be well to talk over the
propositions and investfgate them, so as to
have everything perfectly and clearly under-
stood. Mr Hamilton wished to ascertain upon
what conditions they could obtain two of our
public buildings—one for a school and one for
a church. * * * President Young
said he was well aware that there were many
men in the Catholic Church who could furnish
all the money we would want at once, but he
supposed it was with them as it was with a Mr.
Butler, who owned a wealthy bank, when asked
why he did not sign off more bills, he replied,
it was a good deal of trouble to sign off bills.
He supposed it was too much trouble for them

[Column 2]

to dig their money out of their vaults; but he
wished it understood that while we make a
liberal propositien to dispose of our property,
we must have the means to help ourselves
away.
	Mr. Tucker said their object was to write to
each Bishop and enclose our propositions in a
letter, at the same time advising him either to
come himself or to appoint a committee of
efficient men to come and value the property,
and enter into terms for a final agreement.
He said the sum to be raised was large, and
the time very short, * * but thinks
it can be accomplished—thinks they could be
able to give us a decided answer by the 25th
inst.
	President Young said he would like to add
a note to our proposals before they go for pub-
lication, to this effect: That if they agree to
our propositions we will lease them the Temple
for a period of from five to thirty-five years, at
a reasonable price, the rent to be paid in
finishing the unfinished parts of the Tem-
ple, the wall around the Temple Block and the
block west of the Temple and keeping the
Temple in repair. The council agreed to the
amendment, which was accordingly added to
the proposals and handed to Mr. Tucker.
Mr. Tucker seemed to give much encourage-
ment that an arrangement would speedily be
entered into to accomplish what we want.
Both the gentlemen seem highly pleased with
the Temple aud the city, and appear to feel
sanguine that the Catholics should get this
Temple and vicinity. About half past twelve
they departed, evidently feeling well to-
ward us. * * * * * *
	At a quarter to four, Elder Hyde came into
my room and brought tidings that our sherriff J.
B. Backenstos was clear and acquited. The
jury said if there had been no witnesses only
on the part of the State it would not have re-
quired two minutes to have made up their ver-
dict. They have got two of the mob witnesses
in jail for perjury, and Backenstos has gone to
Springfield to request the Governor to with-
draw his troops."
	"About half past one o'clock, father says,
Mother Lucy Smith, the mother of the Prophet,
arrived; * * the first time that the
old lady has been in the attic. She with Sister
Agnes, the widow of Don C. Smith, Sister
Mary, widow of Hyrum, her sister Mercy
Thompson and Elizabeth Ann Whitney took
lunch with my father and mother. He wrote,
Mother Smith says, "Write that I ate hearty."
He continues, all the rooms are nicely carpeted
and have a very splendid and comfortable ap-
pearance. * * * At three o'clock
Sister Mary Ann Young, Vilate Kimball and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney commenced washing
and anointing each other—being the first in
the Holy Temple of the Lord." We are here
reminded of the Prophet Joseph's words that
"The sisters are always first in all good works."
At twenty-five minutes past four o'clock Presi-
dent B. Young and H. C. Kimball commenced
washing and anointing Elder Willard Rich-
ards. Mother Smith went through the Holy
ordinances that evening with those who have
been previously mentioned as receiving them
in the life-time of the Prophet, so my father
wrote, and that some retired early, and the rest
continued working till half past three in
the morning, when President Young and all
present knelt down and, A. Lyman being
mouth, offered up prayer and praise to the
Most High, for his goodness. Father says," B.
Young and wife, H. C. Kimball and George
A. Smith, also Sister Mary Smith, her sister,
Mercy R. Thompson and W. W. Pheps and
his wife tarried in the Temple all night. We
only obtained about an hour and a half sleep.
In the morning Sister Young and the others
went home; B. Young and myself went to
Joseph Kingsbury's and ate breakfast, * *

[Column 3]

returned back to the Temple and found several
of the brethren and sisters had come in to re-
ceive their endowments. * * Sister
Vilate Kimball and Elisabeth Ann Whitney,
attended to the * * females. At
one o'clock Elder Orson Pratt came in; he has
just returned from his mission to the east."
Some portions of father's journal were written
by William Clayton. He wrote, "After we
got through President Young called the follow-
ing persons into Heber's room viz. H. C. Kim-
ball, P. P. Pratt, John Taylor, O. Hyde John
E. Page, George A. Smith, Amasa Lyman,
Newel K. Whitney, George Miller and Wil-
liam Clayton. The President then stated that
he had received a letter from Samual Brannan,
saying that he had been to Washington and
had learned that the Secretary of War and
the heads of the government were laying plans
and were determined to prevent our moving
west; alleging that it is against the law for an
armed body of men to go from the United
States to any other government. They say it
will not do to let the Mormons go to Calfornia
nor Orogon, neither will it do to let them
taary in the States, and they must be extermin-
ated from the face of the earth."
	To all earthly appearance we were then to
be scattered or wiped out of existence. We
were but a little handful and no power to look
to but to the Omnipotent, whose hand had
thus far kept us together and not the power of
man. But He, in his infinite mercy, had en-
dowed them and given them the key by which
his faithful servants and handmaidens could
approach nearer to His throne, and find
greater favor, because of their humble obedi-
ence to His laws and requirements. Father
says, "We prayed that the Lord would defeat
and frustrate all the plans of our enemies, and
inasmuch as they make plots and lay plans to
exterminate this people and destroy the priest-
hood from off the earth, that the curse of God
may come upon them, even all the evil which
they design to bring upon this people, and that
the Lord would preserve the lives of His ser-
vants and lead us out of this ungodly nation
in peace." After we got through there was a
unanimous feeling that the Lord would answer
our prayers and defeat our enemies. President
Young said we should go away from here in
peace in spite of our enemies.
	The holy ordinances of the Priesthood are
the things most dreaded by the enemies of
all righteousness, and it is him (the father of
lies) who is at work stirring up the hearts of
men to destroy it from off the earth. The Lat-
ter-day Saints are prepared for this and know
that he will leave no stone unturned to accom-
plish this end. How plainly we can see his
workings in the efforts made in these days by
his agents to stop not only the legitimate emi-
gration from the spirit world but also the hon-
est in heart from the various nations of the
earth; but how feeble are their efforts—Consul
Mason for instance trying to prove that "Mor-
mon" missionaries are bringing "over paupers
for wives," etc., but they all prove abortive,
and in the very course they are pursuing they
are inadvertantly publishing the Gospel truths.
and making proselytes faster even than the
missionaries can do; and we can’t but repeat
these words, "God works in a mysterious way
his wonders to perform." Because the keys of
the Priesthood which were to be conferred
upon Aaron and his seed have been handed
down and administered to the Latter-day
Saints, and because the faithful portion are
still determined to be faithful and true to the
sacred covenants which were made in the
Temple of our God, we are to be threatened,
harassed and persecuted to the bitter end.
	To be Continued.


County Convention on July 14th. Primary
meetings on July 10th. Ladies attend.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 1519


TO TIME.

Ho, ruthless invader! say whither away,
With thy merciless scythe and thy locks of gray?
Canst thou not for a moment prolong thy career
Ere thou takest the life of the dying year?
Hold thy shad'wy wings, and pause in thy flight
Ere thou givest this day to an endless night.
Dost thou feel no remorse as thou fleest by,
Has thy heart no throb, thy soul no sigh,
To give, as a tribute, to the last, the lone,
To the ruined tower with moss o'ergrown,
To the widow in tears for the life-blood shed,
To the orphan who mourns a parent dead,
To the childless sire whose son has found
A coffinless grave on the battle ground,
Or the wounded soldier who vainly cries
For a glimpse of home ere his spirit flies
To that land where peace immortal smiles,	
And the syren's fame no more beguiles,
To the drooping form of the maiden fair,
Or the fading flowers that deck her hair?
Can that lovely child on its mother's knee,
With its dying smile win no tear from thee?
Dost thou feel no pang for the wife's appeal,
As her midnight prayer on the low winds steal,
That he she so fondly trusted may
Repay that trust at no distant day?
Thou hast visited yon majestic tree,
And that yawning rent was made by thee,
That towering pile on the upland brow
Shows the mark of thy blasting finger now,
And the stately form of its master bends
'Neath thy withering touch as he slowly wends
His way where the hungry, old ivy crawls
To his gorgeous feast on the crumbling walls,
Thou hast sprinkled with silver my own dark hair,
And the once smooth cheek thy wrinkles bear,
And the form that in youth seemed to laugh thee to
	scorn
Is bent as before thee 'tis onward borne.
Yet thou art defied, yes, tyrant thou,
That feeble form with a furrowed brow
Hath a spirit that laughs thy seythe to scorn,
A soul that lived ere thou wert born,
A mind that can soar to the end of Time,
And in fancy hear thy funeral chime,
Thou may'st gambol, grim shade, with this mutable
									ball,

But not with the hand that made it, all
Thy power is crushed when he deigns to shew
How thy flight is confined to this sphere below.
Then linger a moment, tho' thy footsteps are seen
In the halls of kings and the village green;
Thou art monarch of this frail world of ours,
Of its loftiest domes and its tiniest flowers,
But a mightier monarch than thou hast decreed
That the soul of man from its spirit freed
Shall ignore thy power and rise above
Thy tireless wing to a home of love,
Where thy name is not heard or thy footsteps seen,
And the land is dressed in eternity's green.
								M. A. YAULTON.
	London.


(Column 1)
﻿IS THIS A LAND OF LIBERTY?
Where are thy far-famed laws, Columbia?
Where thy boasted freedom, thy protecting
care? Is this a land of rights, stern facts shall
say, when defenceless women are dragged from
their homes and placed in a prison; the sacred-
nes3 of their homes and firesides invaded by
those who should be the ones to protect them,well
may we ask the onestion, where is the spirit
of 76? where is the spirit of a Washington?
where ! oh where! is the spirit that animated
the framers of the glorious Constitution  of
America? Have our forefathers bled and died
in vain? Is there not enough of the spirit of
freedom left in the land to denounce such
high-minded oppression? Oh! ye Statesmen,
ye Legislators and rulers, pause and reflect ere
it be too late, and know that the Lord God of
Heaven rules and controls the nations of the
earth, that kingdoms, principalities and powers
of the earth are under his divine will. And
do ye not know that he inspired the framers
of the Constitution of America by the power
(Column 2)
of his will? Don’t think that He will allow
the Flag of Liberty, the ensign of freedom to
be dragged in the mire and trampled under
foot with impunity. No, the Lord will come
out of his hiding place and vex the nation,
and unless they repent he will send dire dis-
truction, plagues, famine and woe in their
midst, until they will be obliged to acknowl-
edge his almighty power.
	Upon what charge did the officers arrest
Belle Harris? None. What right had any
court, jury, or lawyer to pry into her private
affairs? None. And because she refused to
answer a question that was an insult in itself,
she was sent to the penitentiary, “for contempt
of court,” “to maintain the dignity of the
conrt,” ‘oh consistency, thou art a jewel.” It
was true dignity and chivalry combined that
refused bail to a lady brought into court with-
out any charge, only suspicion. 	*	*
“Thou carest uot much for character,
Thy aim is how to destroy,
And that by treacherous stealth.”
	We say to our sister Belle, put your trust in
that God who has watched over his Saints and
protected them from time to time from their
enemies, and be sure that the prayers of your
sisters are ascending up to the throne of grace
that you may have strength and fortitude to
maintain the principles of liberty and freedom
to which you were born a citizen of the Uni-
ted States. Stand firm to your integrity as a
daughter of the Republic, having a right to
the protection of this government against all
the encroachments upon the sacredness of
your home and fireside; and as a daughter of
Zion you know that those who suffer persecu-
tion for Christ’s sake, great shall be their re-
ward in heaven.
	The Almighty holds the helm, and He has
said through his prophet in this our day, that
inasmuch as we live our religion inviolate aud
keep his commandments He will be our God,
and we shall be his people, then why should
we despond? With God our Heavenly Father
for our friend, what will it matter if the whole
world be against us? Poor, weak, puny man
to fight against God, when their very breath
depends upon his mercy, they are measuring
arms with God, and He will smite them by the
power of his word, unless they repent in sack-
cloth; the cries of the daughters of Zion are as-
cending to the throne of God, saying, how long,
oh Lord, shall the cry of thy people ascend
before thy throne for redress for the wrongs
they have endured? But not our will be done,
but Thine. Most just and merciful Father, we
thy people trust in thee, we have confidence
in thee, and submit humbly to thy decree; at
the same time we contend for our rights, and
protest against the unconstitutionality of the
proceedings being euacted against us as a peo-
ple; we protest against all invasions of our
rights granted to us by the constitution; as
Americans we claim the right of protection
from all invasion of our rights, we ask, why
such p distinction between a Latter-day Saint
and a Gentile? Belle Harris was put in a
common prison where the worst of crimanals
are imprisoned, although not occupying the
same apartments, while a man charged with
bigamy is scarcely tried, and is left to run at
large in the commnnity and impose upon
the people. We think with the “Record
Union” “that the officers do show that the full
rigor of the law is enforced upon supposed
criminals when they are Mormons, and the
rigor is relaxed in the case of a Gentile crim-
inal.” The case does not show well for our
Federal officers.  It is the old cry, as it was in
the days of Christ when the Jews cried, “His
blood be upon us.” It is. the same spirit that
put our Savior to death; the same spirit that
killed the prophets and apostles in the days of
Jesus; the same that killed our Prophet and 
(Column three)
Patriarch in Nauvoo, and has put to death so
many of our brethren and sisters, and drove
them from State to State until they thought
they had driven them to their death beyond 
the Rocky Mountains, where no white men 
could live as they thought, but the Lord was
with his people and led them to a land where
they could be independant, and they have pros-
pered until they have become a power in the 
nation which has vexed them: so the adversary
is prompting them to annoy and raise a hue
and cry, it is a warfare between  the powers of 
darkness and the hosts of heaven, and it will 
continue until the kingdoms of this world are 
subdued and brought into subjection to the 
kingdom of heaven, and He reigns whose
right it is to reign of rightousness established upon 
the earth-. Them let us rejoice in the God of
our salvation, knowing that ere long the Lord
will appear in his glory to reward the faithful,  
	and to cleanse the earth from wickedness and 
corruption, and reign triumphantly a Conquer-
or. 
	Praying for the success of the EXPONENT
and the welfare of Zion, 
			Retpeetfully you sister, 
				SARAH A. FULLMER.
O[-]angeville, Emery Co., June 5th, 1883.


A PLEASANT PARTY.

	On the first of May the Primary Association
of the First Ward of Richfield with their presi-
dent and Second Counselor arranged a party
in honor of Sister Ruth Hayward’s birthday,
on that day she was sixty-nine years old; she is
first Counselor in the Primary Association.
She has been very faithful and interested for
the association, in teaching the children the
principles of truth. The children made the
day very pleasant with their songs, recitations,
dialogues, etc. Great credit is due the children
for their good order and the love they ex-
pressed to the aged. A number of the leading
sisters were present, and made some very en-
couraging remarks; also many of the parents
of the children were present.
	Sister Hayward was presented with some
presents, selected from the store by the Primary
girls; also many tokens of love. Sister Hay-
ward in a kind and motherly way expressed
her thanks for the honor and respect they had
shown her. Asked the Lord to bless the child-
ren. A bounteous picnic was then passed to
all in the house. The afternoon passed off
harmoniously, making in all a very pleasant
time.						MARIA.
	Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah, May 30th, 1883


A meeting of the lineal descendants of Gov.
William Bradford of Plymouth Rock, was
held in Cleveland, Ohio, May 10th, 1883. At
that meeting it was decided to publish a his-
tory of this distinguished family- All des-
cendants of the Bradford family are invited
to forward names and any facts of interest to
the secretary, S. B. Bradford, Carbondale,
Kansas, or the historian, Mrs. Lester V. King,
Auburn, New York. Any one disposed to
contribute means toward the history will
please send it to the treasurer and receiv-
er, Wm. Bradford Leach, Chilicothe, Mo.
	Mrs. Elmira Pinkham Tuft, feels to corres-
pond and assist in this matter. She is a lineal
descendant. Her grandmother was Abigail
Sterling Bradford; her own mother Betsy
Bradford Pinkham. Mrs. Tuft is also one
of the descendants of Tristram and Dyonis
Coffin. She is much interested in the subject
of geneaology.
	June 28th was the anniversary of the birth-
day of Sister Marinda N. Hyde, one of the
early members of the Church.


16 20	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	JULY 1, 1883.


﻿IS IT IGNORANCE?

	It seems a very common thing with people
unaquainted with the facts to say, it is the ig-
norance of "Mormon" women "that keeps them
in bondage," that "makes them submit to plural
marriage;" when in truth the very contrary is
the case. It is because of the intelligence they
possess on subjects connected with their exist-
ence here and hereafter, as well as that of their
posterity and kindred, the hopes entertained,
and the actual knowledge concerning the future
that causes them to embrace a doctrine so un-
popular and so objectionable in the eyes of the
world. Such paragraphs as the following and
similar ones abound in the newspapers and
journals of the day: "It was hoped by giving
the women of Utah the ballot they would use it
for the destruction of the monster, which keeps
them under its iron heel, in hopeless misery."
These people may be well meaning, but they
talk nonsense and folly in the extreme. Who
are the "Mormon" women, who accepted plural
marriage when the principle was first revealed
to the Prophet Joseph, and taught to a few of
of the people called Latter-day Saints?
	They were just such sound, practical, intelli-
gent women as the foremothers of New Eng-
land and the women pioneers of those Eastern
States. Women prepared to encounter hard-
ships and privation, perils by land and sea for
the sake of the religion in which they devoutly
and implicitly believed. Aye, more! Deter-
mined not only to make the sacrifices incident
to all these sufferings, but still further to prove
their integrity to God by denying themselves
that others might be benefitted and exalted. Is
not this an actual demonstration of that golden
rule the Savior gave to his followers: "Do unto
others as ye would they should do unto you."
These noble women are like other good, pure,
virtuous women, industrially, morally and in-
telluctually. Religiously they are far above
them in the graces which elevate and adorn
human character. It is no wonder that contem-
plating these noble-minded women many are
led to exclaim, "it is not possible that you are
like us, for if you were you could not live in
such relationships." To esteem others equally
with yourself is necessary; to consider the rights
and privileges of those with whom you are as-
sociated as is requisite in one great family.
The women who entered into these sacred cov-
enants of marriage for time and all eternity ac-
cepted this holy order as a divine revelation
and commandment, and in all sincerety, with
the purest motives obeyed the same. To be
sure there has another generation grown up
since the establishment of the principle of ce-
lestial marriage, but has America any reason to
be ashamed of these young people? "By their
fruits ye shall know them, said the Savior."
Do they lack in natural intelligence, in physical
strength or vigor, or in any particular? Have
they not all the gifts and attributes that go to
make up nobility of character in men and
women? No one can say to the contrary and
speak truthfully.
	Speaking of the emigration from other coun-
tries, what difference is there here in Utah more
than elsewhere? None, except it be that Mormons
do more to assist foreign popluation in becoming
good citizens, and adapting themselves to the
conditions of the country. They are taught
more carefully and specifically in relation to the
laws and government of the country. This is a 
result of the perfect and thorough organization
of the Church itself, both with men and women;
There is every opportunity of becoming enlight-
ened on all general subjects. Mormon girls and
women have as sensible ideas upon marriage as
any people in the civilized world. They are
thoroughly taught and instructed to consider
well before accepting this sacred rite, and to
choose wisely. More particalarly are they
cautioned in this regard, because, the covenants
they make are not only for time, but reach into
eternity. It is an important matter to make
choice of a companion for this life, but how
much more so does it become when the union is
an eternal one. In order to investigate the "Mor-
mon" question it is essentially necessary to
know the people themselves, and not accept
testimony of reporters, tourists and sensational
writers, nor yet of political demagogues, whose
sole aim is to make capital by the votes of the
Territory, and turn everything into the hands
of their own party. "Mormon" peeple have
rights under the Constitution, and they will
seek to maintain them, women as well as men.
If anyone supposes these same women citizens
to be ignorant of the rights the ballot gives
them, then they know very little about the
women of this Territory, and our advice to them
is, let the matter rest until you have an oppor-
tunity of solving the problem by thorough in-
vestigation, and not from one side, and remem-
ber the words of the Savior, "Judge not, lest
ye be judged."


[Column 1]
﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	"A Venerable Woman" is again omitted for
want of time to prepare the copy, but we have
some interesting items for the next issue.
	Independence Day, the glorious Fourth, is to
be celebrated at Fort Douglas with music, songs,
orations, reading of the Declaration of Indepen-
dence and other appropriate demonstrations of
a like character. Various games and amuse-
ments for the young people make a desirable
programme.
	ON Saturday, June 10th, Sisters M. P. Young,
E. C. Clawson and C. Cobb attended a special
meeting at East Mill Creek, called for the pur-
pose of organizing a Primary Association. Bish-
op Neff presided and Sister Clawson organized.
The following officers were unanimously sus-
tained: Fanny E. Oliver, President; F. M. Neff
and E. E. Fisher, Counselors; Mamie Neff, Sec-
retary; Eva Fisher, Treasurer. Twenty-seven
members were enrolled.
	PREPERATIONS are going steadily on for the
concerts in the Tabernacle in this city on the
24th of July. They will be very interesting in-
deed; one thousond or more of the sweet sing-
ers of Zion in the choruses will surely be an at-
traction. The best orchestral music and the
most popular singers Utah can boast will take
part in the programme. Posters and pro-
grammes will soon bo issued. The concerts are
under the direction of Evan Stephens, the
children's favorite.

[Column 2]
	CORRECTION: In the EXPONENT of June 15th,
on 3rd column of 1st page, 23rd line, the word
AND has been omitted, altering the sense
somewhat; the word AND should be inserted
so as to make it read, "there and at Brigham
Young's"
	THE Tenth book of the Faith Promoting
Series has been issued recently from the Juven-
ile Instructor Office. It is entitled, "Scraps of
Biography," and contains, "Sketch of an El-
der's Life," Father John Tanner; "Incidents of
Experience," Daniel Tyler; and Newel
Knight’s Journal. The book is exceedingly in-
teresting, containing many powerful testimo-
nies to the truth, the healing of the sick,
prophecies fulfilled and manifestations calcula-
ted to strengthen the faith of the young.
These excellent works should be in the homes
of all the Latter-day Saints, and certainly in
the libraries of the young folks.
	Sisters P. L. Kimball and H. M. Whitney
attended the Ladies Conference of Tooele Stake,
held at Grantsville, Saturday and Sunday.
There was a good attendance and an excellent
feeling among the people. On Monday the sis-
ters went over to Tooele and met with each of
the organizations' Relief Society, Y. L. M. I.
A. and P. A. From there to Pine Canyon,
where they had three meetings again, then at
St. Johns, and then at Vernon. On returning
they attended a meeting at Clover Creek where
Bishop de St. Joer organized a Relief Society,
with Mrs. Jemima Stookey as president. While
in the Stake the sisters visited among the sick
and administered to many, comforting and en-
couraging the sisters in their labors. We have
some reports for publication, but have not space
in this issue.
	ON Wednesday, January 20th, two Women's
meetings were held in Farmer's Ward, one at
ten a.m. to reorganize the Primary Association.
Mrs. Sarah Ann Cannon, the former Presi-
dent having resigned on account of moving
from the Ward, Mrs. Reba Pratt was chosen to
act aa President. Sisters Zina D. H. Young, M.
I. Horne, P. Woodruff, B. W. Smith, M. E.
Kimball, M. P. Young, Louie Felt, Ellen C.
Clawson and Camilla Cobb attended the meet-
ing. A sumptous dinner was prepared by the
sisters at the residence of Mrs. Angie Frink,
and at two p.m. a meeting of the Rslief Society
was held, Mrs. Emma Woodruff presiding.
	TUESDAY, June 19th, a meeting was held in
the Seventh Ward school house, Bishop Wm.
Thorne presiding, for the purpose of reorganizing
the Relief Society. Sisters M. I. Horne and E.
B. Wells were present by invitation. Bishop
Thorne placed in nomination Mrs. Mary Alice
Lambert as President to fill the vacancy caused
by the death of the late President, Mrs. Alice
Needham. Mrs. Lambert chose as her Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Harriet Woodbury and Mrs. Annie
Dinwoodey; Mrs. Mary Alice Woodbury was
chosen as Secretary; Mrs. Ella Broadbent, As-
sistant Secretary; and Mrs. Mary Alice Lam-
bert, Treasurer. These sisters were unanimous-
ly sustained by vote, and set apart under the
hands of Bishop Thorne and Counselors, Mc-
Lachlin and Woodbury.


AN INTERESTING TRIP.
THE LAMANITES IMPROVING, RELIEF SOCIETY
NEWS— SILK INDUSTRY.
“On the morning of the 14th of May I took
train and went to Brigham City for an "out,"
and for an indefinite time. On the 19th inst.,
in company with my brother, Lorenzo Snow,
and his son Alphonso, recently returned from a
Southern mission, I went by carriage to Washa-
kie, known as "The Indian Farm," in Box Elder


County, about forty miles from Brigham City,
and arrived at Bishop Zundel's before night.
	On out way we called, and were very cordially
received and hospitably entertained, at the
the residence of Brother and Sister Standing,
the parents of the brave young missionary who
was brutally murdered in Georgia.
	The next day being Sunday, at 10 o'clock, we
all went to Sunday School, which was conducted
by Elder Moroni Ward. A few white children
were in attendance, but the school mostly con-
sisted of, not only red children of small growth,
but full grown men and women, all seeming in
earnest to learn as fast as possible. I listened to
each class separately, and, while I was deeply
struck with surprise with the progress of the
scholars, I felt no less admiration for the untir-
ing perseverance of the teachers. By request I
addressed the school for a short time, Bishop
Zundel interpreting to those that did not fully
understand.
	At two p.m. we attended meeting. After the
sacrament was administered my brother preached
a short and interesting discoure, after which
Bishop Zundel organized a Relief Society, with
Sister Elizabeth J. Zundel president, Sisters
Melissa Hunsaker and Kohn (Lamanite) Coun-
selors; Sister Harriet Chandler Secretary;
Almira Hall Treasurer.
	The time would not admit of voting in the
members that day, but I have received a report
from the secretary, saying that at the next Sun-
day meeting forty-one members were received,
thirty-five of whom are Lamanites; several of
whom expressed their gratitude in being thus
organized, and their desires to learn to keep
house and to make clothing as their white sis-
ters do.
	One impressive feature of the services in the
afternoon meeting, which we attended, must
not be overlooked, i. e., the singing, which was
all performed by a Lamanite choir of six males
and six females. With the many variationsin
their tunes, which are very peculiar, the perfec-
tion of their time is truly astonishing.
	After the meeting was dismissed, the children
were called together, and I organized a Prim-
ary Association, with the following officers:
Philena H. Zundel, President; Eliza Ward and
Almira Hall, Counselors; Phebe Zundel, Secre-
tary; Hadden Ward, Treasurer.
	We were informed that Brother Chandler is
successful here in teaching a day school, which
is well attended; he also has charge of the Sun-
day School, but was absent on a visit—we did
not see him. The Indians are very industrious
under Brother Zundel's direction. This sum-
they propose building a number of dwell-
ing houses of brick of their own manufacture,
which will advance them much in domestic im-
provement. 
	On Monday we returned to Brigham City,
stopping to noon in Honeyville at Bishop Hun-
saker's, where a number of the brethren came
in for a few minutes' sociable, and where I had
the pleasure of meeting the widow of the much
esteemed Brother David Grant. She is daughter
of Bishop H., and is now President of the Prim-
ary Association of that Ward. I need not say
that we dined sumptuously-- the Bishop's hos-
pitality is proverbial.
	On the 23rd I accompanied President Harriet
Snow and Sister Mortensen, in a light spring
wagon, a span of horses, and a young lady
driver, to Mantua; not the place where Virgil
the poet was born, but where we met a live Re-
lief Society, had a good time and returned. On
the 26th, went to Willard City with the same
wagon, team and charioteer-- attended two
meetings of Primary Conference. The children's
exercises occupied most of the time—their recita-
tions were excellent and splendidly rendered.
The Bishop and other brethren were present.
	On the 31st, Brother M. Dudley came from
Willard City, for Sister H. Snow, her daughter
Abigall and myself, and we met with a large
congregation of sisters and brethren in Relief
Society capacity.
	On the 14th of June attended Primary Con-
ference in Brigham City; two meetings with
very large attendance, excellent exercises and
a very creditable primary fair. They exhibited
many beautiful specimens combining the useful
with the ornamental.
	The next day was R. S. Conference--two
meetings well attended-- it was truly a beauti-
ful congregation for the spirit of God seemed to
beam from every countenance. The large Tab-
ernacle in which the three conferences were
held was well filled, and the wards generally
well reported.
	The 13th was the Young Ladies Conference.
I met with them in the forenoon, had a good
time, listened to very sensible remarks, made a
few myself, and in the afternoon took the train
for my home in Salt Lake city, thus terminat-
ing my one month's "out."
	I now wish to append to the forgoing the
following silk report from Brigham City:
	Christine Forsgren of the 4th Ward, in 1881,
wove twenty-one yards of all silk warp, with
silk and wool fillings. In 1882 she wove fifteen
yards, all silk. In 1883 she has woven twenty
yards of dress goods, and seven yards of satin
vesting, and has ready for the loom, material
for fifteen yards of underwear. All this she has
brought forth from the elements. All of the
work done at her home.
	Christine Christiansen of the 3rd Ward has
thirteen yards thirty-three inches wide, now in
the loom all silk for dress. About one hundred
neckties have been made in Brigham city, be-
sides a qutntity of floss.
	It is estimated that one hundred and fifty
pounds of dry cocoons have been raised in that
city in the last three years. Ellen Stark sold
$29 worth in one year. 	E. R. Snow Smith.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 21


﻿WOMAN'S CONFERENCE.

	The quarterly Conference of Relief Society
of the Salt Lake Stake convened in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, in this city,
Friday, June 22nd, at ten a.m. and two p.m.,
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. After the usual
exercises verbal reports were given by the Presi-
dents of the several societies, and remarks suit-
able to the occasion were made by Sisters E. R.
Snow Smith, Zina D H. Young, M. I. Horne,
E. S. Taylor and others, calculated to comfort
and encourage the sisters in gaining spiritual
knowledge and intelligence.
	Saturday morning at ten a.m. the Conference
of the Primary Associations was held in the As-
sembly Hall, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presiding.
A large number of children from the several
wards were in attendance, and some exercises
rendered. The several Presidents reported
progress in their respective Associations. The
singing was particularly good.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of this Stake
of Zion was held in the Assembly Hall in this
city, Saturday afternoon, June 23rd, 1883, Mrs.
M. A. Freeze presiding. After singing, prayer
and singing inutes of previous conference
were read and accepted, and verbal reports
given from fifteen Associations. President
Freeze made a few enconraging remarks, fol-
lowed by Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Counselor Mat-
tie Horne. Sister Jane E. Molen of Cache
Stake spoke a short time, also Sisters Louie Felt
and E. B. Wells. Sister Maria Y. Dougall was
sustained by the Conference as Counselor to


President Freeze in place of Clara Y. Conrad,
deceased. Conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing and benediction.


CORRESPONDENCE.
Burkes Garden, Tazwell Co., Va.,
				June 11th, 1883.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	Thinking you would like to hear from me, and
of my success in the missionary field, and hav-
ing just got back from a trip through Withe,
Pulaski and Giles Counties, I take the opportun-
ity of writing. I have been released from my
former field of labor, in Smythe and Bland
Counties, and have been appointed to labor in an
entire new field, where they have never heard
the Gospel. My brother Golden is traveling with
me now. We met with considerable opposition
on our trip, especially in Withe and Pulaski.
We were not able to get places to stop at over
night, only at public houses, there y having to
walk long distances in the hot son; we were
turned away from seventeen places in two days.
Could get no places to hold meetings at all; but
we never allowed ourselves to become discour-
aged, but we were determined they should have
a testimony of some kind and insisted on them
taking our tracts and reading them, thereby
leaving them no excuse as regards being igno-
rant of the Gospel. After we got into Giles Co.,
we met an entirely different kind of people, hos-
pitable and kind, those with whom we came in
contact. We tried several days to get a place to
preach in, but were unsuccesssful until  met
with a Campbellite Deacon, who gave us the
privilege of preaching in their Church, provid-
ing we would not preach Mormonism, but if we
would take the Bible all well and good; this was
easily promised. (This was a prominent man
and one of education too;) we explained to him
what Mormonism consisted of. He was con-
siderably surprised. We held our meeting, and
I had the pleasure of bearing my testimony to
the most intelligent congregation that it has
been my lot to address since I have been here;
they paid strict attention, and I could see that
our words carried conviction to their hearts and
struck tender chords. At the close of the meet-
ing a number came up to us and made them-
selves acquainted, kindly inviting us to come
and see them whenever we came through that
neighborhood. We truly felt thanklul to God
for those kind friends, raised up for us in time of
need. We made the acquaintance of some of
the best families in the Co, and were treated
kindly by them; one in particular, Mr. Daniel
Cecil, who gave us a standing invitation to come
and see him. He is a man of wealth and educa-
tion, and very liberal in his views; seemed very
anxious to read our Church Works, which we
will take pleasure in furnishing him with. We
were truly blest on our trip, and feel to thank
God from the bottom of our hearts. We have an
invitation to preach in a Presbyterian Church
as we go back.
   On our homeward trip we stopped with a Mr.
John Allen; during the night his little two year
old son was taken very sick with the flux, which
is fatal in this country. He came into our room
during the night and acted as though he wished
us to do something, said but little, turned round
and went out. As soon as we arose we stepped
into the room to inquire about the child; there
they sat, both of them, crying as though their
hearts would break; it was a very sick child in-
deed. She, Mrs. Allen, came up to me and said,
"If you can do anything for him for God’s sake
do it.” I asked them if they would like to have
us adminster to the child, they said yes. We
knelt down and prayed, then laid  our hands up
on the child, rebuking the disease in the name


of Jesus. In a few moments it sank to sleep
the fever left it; our prayers were answered.
When we left they God blessed us over and over.
I told them not to give us the praise, but God
the Eternal Father; we were only humble in-
struments in his hands. This is the second
case of healing under our hands, the other being
a lady belonging to the Church; she had been
suffering from a chronic disease of nine years
standing; she was healed immediately. These
are great testimonies to us, and we feel to give
praise where praise is due. I enjoy my labors,
and feel to be energetic and wide awake and em-
ulate the example of all good men. I have
traveled in several counties, borne my testi-
mony whenever I could get the chance. I have
a good companion in my brother, one who has
got the spirit of his mission. I feel to thank my
Father in heaven for this mission, and hope
that I can fill it with honor is the greatest de-
sire of my heart. Remember me to all inquir-
ing friends. With kind love to self and family,
I remain,
	Your affectionate nephew,
		NEWEL. W. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, in Nephi, Juab Co., June 11th, 1883, Amelia
H. Goldsbrough, wife of Brother Henry Goldsbrough.
Deceased was born December 7th, 1814, at Little Com-
mon, Yorkshire, England. Was baptized by Samuel
Wood, October 20th, 1847. Emigrated with her hus-
band in 1857 to Salt Lake City, and came to Nephi in
1863. Was called and set apart by Bishop Bryan to
preside over the Nephi Relief Society, June 23rd, 1868,
which positioe she filled with honor and satisfaction
until February 28th, 1878, when she was chosen and set
apart by President Teasdale to preside over the Juab
Stake Relief Societies, Nephi, Mona and Levan; was
faithful to her duties. She won the love and affection
of the officers and members over whom she presided.
	The remains were followed from her residence to the
Meeting House by her family and relatives, her coun-
selor and secretary, the board and teachers of the Nephi
Society, the President of Mona Society, officers of Lev-
an Society ,and members of the Nephi Society.
	President Paxman, Patriarch J. G. Bigler, C. H. Bry-
an, G. Kendall and C. Sperry made very appropriate re-
marks, aided by the Spirit of God, comforting the be-
reaved that were present, and a fervent prayer by Broth-
er Joel Grover to God onr Heavenly Father for His bles-
sings to rest upon the family and bereaved husband,
who is now on a mission to England.
	The Nephi Brass Band was in attendance, and her re-
mains were conveyed to the Cemetery, followed by her
family and many friends.						COM.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT, adopted by the Relief So-
ciety of Nephi, June 14th, 1883.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of our Stake
President, Sister Amelia Goldsbrough:
	Whereas, it has pleased Almighty God, by the hand
of death, to take from us our beloved President.
	Resolved, That we recognize in her death the loss of
an able and worthy President.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past untiring, energetic
and faithful labors in the path of duty worthy of our
highest appreciation and emulation.
	Resolved, That we, sensibly feeling our loss, sincerely
and deeply condole and sympathize with her family and
friends, and absent husband in their bereavement, and
may we long remember her good example of patience
and perseverance in the path of duty, and strive to
walk in the path she so nobly trod.
	Resolved, That these resolution be spread upon our
records, and a copy be furnished the bereaved family,
also one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publi-
cation. 					AMY LORETTE BIGLER,
								Stake Secretary.
	Nephi, June 14th, 1883.

	Mary M. Edlefson, beloved wife of Brother N. C. Ed-
lefson, died, May 18th, 1883, at her home in Logan,
Utah, after a long illness. She was born February 10th,
1830, at Fyen, Denmark, was married in the fall of 1851,
embraced the Gospel in February, 1858, emigrated to
Utah in 1864, located at Hyrum, Cache Co., and in the

[Column 2]
year following moved to Ovid in Bear Lake Valley. In
the year 1877 she moved with her husband and family to
Logan.
	In August, 1882 Brother Edlefson and wife were called
to St. George Temple and remained there 5 months; al-
though Sister Edlefson was in poor health during that
time she enjoyed her labors very much.
	During her stay at St. George and after her return she
anticipated much pleasure in the prospect of laboring
in the Logan Temple. Notwithstanding her poor
health after her return home, she retained her
buoyancy of spirit and ardent hope that she would
recover and continued so until a short time previous to
her demise, but when finding death inevitable she be-
came resigned and willing to die, and departed this life
in peace and the full hope of eternal life. At the time
of her death and for several years previous she acted as
one of the connselors of the Relief Society of the Fifth
Ward of Logan. Sister Edlefson was a woman of rare
ability, was possessed of qualities that are necessary
to make a good Saint, wife and mother, all of which
she was to an eminent degree. She was the mother of
nine children, four of whom are dead, those living may
be greatly blest and aided by the lustre and goodness
of her example, for during her career in the Church she en-
dured many privations, both in her own land and in Utah,
for the Gospel's sake, maintaining with her own hands
her family while her husband performed several years of
missionary labor, in the midst of which she ever mani-
fested an implicit faith in the Gospel and the ordinances
thereof, particularly was this noticeable in her recent
illness with respect to the administration of the elders,
experiencing relief upon nearly every occasion when ad-
ministered to. She was greatly respected and esteemed
by all who knew her, as is evinced by the following
memoriam:
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT to the memory of Sister
Mary Edlefson.
	Whereas, Almighty God has seen fit to take from our
midst by the hand of death Sister Mary Edlefson.
	Therefore, be it resolved, That while we bow in hum-
ble submission to the divine will of Almighty God we
realize that we have lost by her death a friendly adviser,
a motherly counselor, and more than all, a firm and
faithful supporter of the principles of the Gospel.
	Resolved, Tnat we treasure up her past efforts in
teaching us the principles of the Gospel, and advising us
for our best good, and that we emulate her worthy
example.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be spread
upon our minutes, and one presented to the bereaved
ones.				ANNIE ANDERSON, Secretary.
	Fifth Ward Relief Society, Logan, June 6th, 1883.


[Column 1]

R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

ASHLEY, UINTAH CO.
	On the Fourth day of March, 1883, we met
and organized a Primary Association with Sis-
ter Abigail Oakes as President; Ella Reynolds
and Mary A. Bodily, Counselors; Sister Mary
A. Shoffer, Secretary; Sister Annie Brown,
Treasurer. They were blessed and set apart
under the hands of Bishop Hatch, Bishop
Shoffer and Counselors. These brethren made
some excellent remarks and advised the sisters
to take such care and interest in these meet-
ings as would encourage the children and be a
benefit to them through life. On the First
day of May we met and had a very interesting
meeting and picnic, songs were sung, and
pieces recited, and we enjoyed ourselves very
much indeed. President Abby Oakes gave us
some very good instruction which we highly
appreciated. May the Primaries prosper, is
the heartfelt wish of your sister in the Gospel,
	MELVIE BASSETT GLINES,
		Corresponding Secretary.

LOGAN, CACHE CO.
	Report of Primary Association of Cache
Stake of Zion, held in the Logan Tabernacle,
June 2nd, 1883. On the stand were Presi-
dent Jane E. Molen, Counselors Sisters Bar-
ber and Hansen, and Sisters E. S. Taylor and
E. Howard, of Salt Lake City. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of singing

[Column 2]

and prayer, reading of minutes and the Stake
report, etc. Presidents of the varions societies
gave verbal reports, The children were cate-
chised from "Bible Questions and Answers."
	President Jane E. Molen then presented be-
fore the audience the children whom the Pri-
mary Associations of this Stake had emigrated
from England.
	Sister Taylor spoke to the children, said a
few years ago there were no prophets nor apos-
tles on the earth, and how thankful we should
be that we are permitted to come upon the
earth when God has again restored the Gospel
to earth. When we are sick we should
call in the elders to anoint and administer un-
to us, then if we are not appointed unto death
we will be healed.
	Sister Howard said she was delighted to
hear the questions so well answered; and was
very pleased to know they remembered their
prayers, for if they would always do so they
would be preserved from accident. Little
boys, do not use tobacco, for it is a filthy
weed. Obey your parents, that you may
have long lives upon the earth. Attend
your meetings regularly and spend no time
in hunting for things that should be kept in
their places, for you will be held responsible
for all the time you have on earth. Set an
example worthy of imitation by these child-
ren whom you have emigrated. Be careful
of your health, and do not expose yourselves
to the cold and wet when it is unnecessary.
Do not be cruel to animals, no matter what
kind they are. Be humble, gentle and obe-
dient at all times. Always be cheerful and
happy, then the angels will attend you.
	Sister Barber exhorted the children to
treasure up the instructions that had been
given. Ever be good, kind and obedient,
that you may grow up good men and
women.
	President J. E. Molen thanked the children
for their good attendance and kind attention.
Asked the children each to save five cents
towards emigrating two more children from
England, a brother and sister to the little
boy and girl that had already come to Zion
through their efforts.
	Conference was then adjourned to the first
Friday and Saturday in September. Child-
ren sang. Benediction.
	LAVINIA PARRY,
		Secretary.
	Report of the Primary Association of
Cache Stake for the half year ending March
1st, 1883:
	Meetings held, 337; Number of Members,
1847; Increase, 205; Decrease, 97; Average at-
tendance, 773. Readings. Bible Chapters,
98; Book of Mormon, 14; Doctrine and Coven-
ants, 43; Other Church Works, 203; Home
Readings, Chapters, 672; Home Readings,
Verses, 1172; Miscellaneous, 391. Recitations.
Bible—Number of Verses, 320; Book of Mor-
mon—Number of Verses, 27; Doctrine and
Covenants—Number of Verses, 235; Other
Church Works—Number of Verses, 424; Mis-
cellaneous Books, 431; Testimonies borne,
942; Essays, 55. Financial. Cash received,
$217.48; Property, $106.78; Total, $324.26;
Cash Paid Out, $127.85, Devoted to Temple,
$83.23; Charitable Purposes, 65.12; Cash on
Hand, 38.41; Property on Hand, 127.53; To-
tal on Hand, 165.94.
	JANE E. MOLEN, President.
	LAVINIA PARRY, Secretary.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah Stake of Zion, held
in Provo City, June 1st, 1888. Present on the
stand, Counselors Mary John and Margaret
A. Cluff, Secretary, etc., Mary John presiding.
Sister Zina D. H. Yonng present also, with a
few of the brethren. Conference opened with


the usual exercises, reading of minutes, etc.,
and as there were no written reports, verbal
reports were requested from the Presidents of
the different societies of the county, which were
given with very few exceptions. As a general
thing the societies were represented as being
in a flourishing condition, united and willing
to do all they were called upon to do in the
way of caring for the sick, helping the poor
and the needy, and trying in every way to
build up Zion.
	Sister John was gratified to meet with so
many of the sisters; was sorry that we were de-
prived (through illness) of the society of our
beloved President, Sister Smoot, but hoped the
Lord would heal her and restore her to us
again.
	Sister Cluff felt glad to hear the reports;
knew the sisters were doing a great deal of
good; felt to have faith for Sister Smoot that
we might have her with us again; also spoke
of the long labors of Sister Holden as Presi-
dent of the Fourth Ward Relief Society for
over fifteen years. Said that although the Re-
lief Societies were working quietly we could
hardly realize the good they were doing.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said, we have
come here to worship God. These societies
were organized by Joseph Smith, he said the 
oaganization of the Church was not complete
without them. We know not what we miss
when we neglect attending our meetings, every
sister cannot come to meeting, but let the
teachers visit them that their souls may be
feasted, how many times are our souls feasted
by visits from the teachers. Sisters, read the
Doctrine and Covenants; do not indulge in
much mirth; be prayerful; and careful of our
words when speaking of another; spoke of the
trials of the faithful, but that we could not en-
ter the Celestial Kingdom without having all
we could bear. Counseled the sisters in regard
to their children; give them good advice, teach
them pure principles--do not overtask your-
selves with work and abuse your tabernacles.
May our Father in Heaven bless us and ena-
ble us to be faithful.
	Just as the forenoon services were obout to
close a sister by the name of Tiffany was
moved upon by the spirit to speak in tongues,
which was intrepreted by Sister Zina D. H.
Young.
	Afternoon session commenced at two p.m.
Sister John said she wished to have a testimony
meeting, and gave leave for the sisters to speak
as they felt moved upon, a number of the
sisters bore a strong testimony to this work
and of the goodness of God to them.
	Mother Duke (over eighty years of age)
said, it is with peculiar feelings that I arise
before you again, and I ask myself how many
times shall I be able to meet with you. I was
among the first members that were organized
into a Relief Society by Joseph Smith. We
are the daughters of God, spirits that have
been reserved to come forth at this time to
gain an experience and return to Him; our re-
ligion grows better as we grow older, I am
proud of it. I expect to meet you all beyond
the veil, etc.
	Sister Thomas and Anna K. Smoot, both
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of this
work. Brother H. H. Cluff spoke on the prin-
ciple of Celestial Marriage, the principle was
true and for our exaltation and eternal in-
crease, blessings accompany our obedience at
all times; spoke of the responsibility of parents
in training their children aright, and surround-
ing them with proper influences; it was of
more worth to raise our cnildren correctly than
anything we could accumulate around us.
	Sister Zina followed with a few more re-
marks, said the principles we have heard are
true; we cannot pay too much attention to the
souls of our children; they are given to us, and

[Column 2]

they must bear off this kingdom; it is through
obedience that we receive our rewards.
	Sister John encouraged the sisters in all
good works. Explained some of our beliefs
and doctrines to a few who were present who
did not belong to our Church; bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the principle of Celestial
Marriage.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
				CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.
	RESOLUTIONS of respect upon the resigna-
tion of Sister Ruia A. Holden as President of
the Relief Society of the Fourth Ward of
Provo City:
	Whereas, In consequence of severe illness
our beloved President, Ruia A. Holden, has
been rendered incapable of attending to the
duties of her office, and has tendered her resig-
nation to the Society.
	Resolved, That while we deplore the neces-
sity of doing so, we accept her resignation.
	Resolved, That we appreciate her services
and labors in behalf of our society for upwards
of fifteen years.
	Resolved, That Sister Holden has the love
and esteem of the whole Ward, and will ever
be remembered with affection by us.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions
be recorded upon our books with our minutes,
and be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and 
Provo Enquirer for publication.
	Committee: M. A. Cluff, D. M. Meecham,
Caroline Daniels, Nancy Haws, Mary M. Boy-
den.
	Provo City, June 12th, 1883.


19 

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DRESDEN—THE "SISTINE MA-
DONNA."

DRESEDEN, Oct 20, 1882.
	It was late in the evening when we entered
this city. We were weary from a long day's
journey. We had been looking towards
the place as a sort of Mecca where our pil-
grimage was to end for the present. We sent
out many an inquiring glance as the fiacre
rolled through the streets on our way from the
Bahnhof. There was a certain severe quiet-
ness about everything that impressed us in an
uncomfortable fashion. It seemed as though
barometer and thermometer had both fallen
very fast since the setting of the sun.
	The ride ended at last; onr driver opened the
door of our carriage. We were in front of a
goodly building, but no flight of steps could
we find by which we might ascend and see if
the rooms we had engaged were habitable, At
last a gloomy looking arch-way with a gleam
of light somewhere in its mysterious depths,
fixes our attention. We venture in on a
voyage of discovery. At the further end we
come upon the "front steps," a huge stone stair-
way leading up to regions above. Maids were
coming down with lights, and we find it is the
place we have bargained for. We follow them
up four flights of stairs to find ourselves on
the third etage. We make some mental com-
ments on the peculiar method of computation,
and wonder if the people with whom we are to
abide are in very reduced circumstnnces, and
question whether there can be any duty to
them which will induce us to live in a "tene-
ment house." Before we have settled the
weighty problem, a door is thrown open and a 
gentle German frau who writes "Von" before
her name, is making us welcome in her own
pleasant way. Her rooms are as pleasant as
her voice of welcome. She has a bountiful
supper spread for us. Her dainty looking
table, with its snowy cloth and shining silver,
is a pretty picture in the quaint old dining-
room with its polished floor and comfortable
rugs. The sleeping apartments are equally in-

[Column 2]

viting. We find their arrangement somewhat
different from those we left at home. We en-
joy even the difference. The trimmings to
ours are all blue. Queer curtains of some
odd texture shade the three windows, which
open into the room, swinging back by hinges
like doors. Toilet tables, one for each person,
sofas and comfortable chairs go to make up our
satisfaction in our surroundings, which we 
speedily appropriate.
	We are glad enough to avail ourselves of
the opportunity to test the somnolent influences
of the comfortable looking beds. We are
learning a lesson now and then in gymnastics
by practice in the art of keeping our most pe-
culiar coverlets over us. The beds themselves
throughout all Germany are usually comfort-
able for persons of medium height. The Ger-
man cabinet maker is, in all probability, short
of stature, and is a law unto himself in measur-
ing. What happens to the tall person who at-
tempts to get a night's rest in a German bed of
the regulation pattern, we can only guess. The
problem is fatiguing. We usually find the
sheet and a red blanket basted together. After
this comes the crowning glory of the structure,
the pride and delight of the German frau, the
feather bed. Yes, good friends, we sleep un-
der our beds. The shades of our grandmothers
for more than one generation back have
seemed to stand before us in the hours of the
stilly night, with most sympathetic eyes, as we
have shivered in the pale moonlight in a vain
attempt to lay hands on our tormenting adver-
sary. Night after night we wrestle with our
soft-hearted antagonist. We find the enemy
floored every morning, the battle to be renewed
every night. How long our constitution can
stand the strife, we have yet to learn.
	We do not breakfast early. It is not ortho-
dox to do so. We find delicious coffee and
rolls waiting our coming to the table, or ready
to be served in our room. Honey is usually
the only accompaniment to the rolls. We still
cling to our old ideas, and secure a substantial
meal before we start out for the day. With
the sunshine on the city we find it less sombre
and unattractive than in the evening. We
straighten out our belongings, make ourselves
feel a little at home, and then start out.
	There is but one direction for us. Be the
city ever so attractive it is nothing now. We
have a pilgrimage before us, the only altar be-
fore which we can bow is in the Zwinger. We
are amazed at the building when we reach it,
we find it so much larger and finer than we
had expected. It reminds us in many ways of
the palaces of France, built under the direc-
tion of that ease-loving and luxurious Monarch,
Louis XIV. Augustus, the strong, laid the
foundation of the building, and was the origina-
tor of the wonderful collection now contained
within its walls. We cross the great court
with a sort of bewildered consciousness that
one of the desires of our life is about to be
gratified. We enter the door, ascend the
stairs, pass through the rotunda, inquire our
way of the guards, and keeping on through
the corridors, enter at last a room containing
a single picture—the object of our search—
"The San Sisto, or Sistine Madonna." When
we reached the door, our impulse was to turn
back again. We had counted on so much,
we were half afraid to enter. We drew back
the curtain, which draped the entrance, and
were at last face to face with the wonderful
creation; this marvel, this inspiration, which
found lodgment in the reverent mind of the
gentle, tender poet-painter, whose wondrous
genius alone could place it on canvas. Words
die away from the lips of those who enter the
sanctury where this Madonna is enshrined.
The unearthly beauty of the gracious figure is
almost painful in its impressive majesty in the
first moments of our surprise. We feel more
than we can see or speak. We stand dumb


and bewildered. We are glad to find ourself
in a seat at last.
	After a little time we get accustomed to our
surroundings, and find there are others in the
room, all absorbed and intent in what is before
them. The painting is quite large, arranged
with excellent taste, so that it now appears in
the position for which Raphael intended it—
above an altar—choicely framed, with hang-
ings of soft, rich maroon-color back of it. No
words can give an idea worthy the reality.
The marvelous Madonna is of course the cen-
tral figure, With the babe nestling in its ce-
lestial beauty in her arms, she seems treading
the very clouds of heaven utterly unconscious
of everything except her precious charge. The
womanly grace of her divine appointment to
the motherhood of Christ seems crowned by a
dignity beyond our comprehension.
	After a time, we begin to take in the acces-
sories to this figure. We find St. Barbara on
the right, bent in homage to mother and child,
while Pope Sixtus prostrates himself at the
left. Our eyes travel down in search of the
cherubs, who are in themselves worth a journey
to see. They are as facsinating, as beautiful, as
bewitching as one could imagine.
	The little room, even the strong walls of the
Zwinger fade away from us. We are watch-
ing a young man, a poet, possibly, who is
sauntering on the outskirts of an Italian city,
in the rosy close of a summer's afternoon.
Orange blossoms and oleanders have flung
their sweetness into the softened air. There is
a hush of repose over everything, as the pen-
sive muser pauses beside a cottage garden.
In the latticed doorway a young mother is re-
peating the story of the child that was born in
Bethlehem. Her beautiful boys are weary of
their play, and are resting at her knee. The
chubby hands of one are placed under the lit-
tle chin, while the wondering eyes of the other
are upturned in loving admiration toward the
devout and tender mother. The listless look
is gone from the stranger's face; quietly he ap-
proaches, listens with eager eyes bent on the
children, till the story is all told—the questions
about the wonderful mother and child all
answered. Then this young loiterer stoops to
caress the lovely children and tell the mother
that if she will bring her boys on the morrow
to his home he will show them a picture of the
Virgin and her Child.
	There is a murmur of satisfaction that causes
us to raise our eyes. The beautiful twins are
glowing on the canvas before us, where the
hand of Raphael placed them in loving adora-
tion at the feet of the Madonna about whom
they delighted to hear.
	We look mechanically along the walls of
this grand gallery as we go out, but are unable
to fasten our attention in a satisfactory way on
anything. We hope to come many times, and
make ourselves familiar with much that is in it.
To-day is only an introductory visit, and we
wanted to come quietly, with a single friend,
to that one particular object of our pilgrim-
age. It is good to be alone sometimes with
those who know the value of silence.
—Ex.	RUTH RANDOM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL writes from
Belle River, St. Clair County, Michigan, that
she is well and finds much of interest there, but
she can better tell it after she returns
home than write it. However, she means
to write us a letter from New York, the home
of her childhood, after arriving there. Mrs.
Kimball has been to Nauvoo, at which place
many recollections crowded upon her. She
expects to visit Kirtland, where she was mar-
ried in the early days of the Church.


﻿THE History of Salt Lake City is to be writ-
ten by Edward W. Tullidge, by authority of
the City Council, at the request of a number
of influential citizens, both men and women.
The history is to be published in parts, magni-
ficently illustrated with steel plate portraits of
men and women of the Territory. It will also
be published in Tullidge's Quarterly Maga-
zine.
	THE Englishwoman's Review, for June, con-
tains a number of very interesting articles:
Preparations for the Reform Bill, Hospital
Management, Hysterical Old Maids, Second
Reading of the Deceased Wife's Sister Bill, Un-
derground Russia by Stepniak, Protection of
Girls, London School of Medicine for Wo-
men, Governess Association of Ireland, Club
for Working Girls in Soho, Hygienic Dress,
and other interesting matter.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,			25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,				$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,	-	1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.

PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of the Deseret National Bank, and a half
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d North, Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Buildings; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be called by Telephone Day or Night

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL's
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLES,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,	
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 to 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerback & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods,
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

