VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1884.	No. 19.


TO THE POET-BISHOP.

When next the fabled reins you grasp,
	And mount above these earthly bars,
O Poet! lower guide thy flight,
	Lest we shall lose thee 'mong the stars.

Yet poet-prophets, poet-kings,
Wrought in such matchless charm the Word—
No later pen hath reached their power,
None e'en such eloquence hath heard.

Then dip thy pen in that rich stream—
	The holy spirit's themes divine,
And may thy songs, O poet-priest!
	With sacred, ancient psalms entwine.

And when the Zion old shall meet
	The Zion of latter-days,
May'st thou with prophets, psalmists, bring
	Thy people's offering of praise.
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Feb. 6th., 1884.


ANSWER TO WOMAN AND SIN.
			------
IN THE CINCINNATI ENQUIRER
			------
	As we are living in the last days when great
and mighty revolutions are taking place, and
understanding somewhat of the purposes of
God, we would think it very strange it some of
Eve's daughters did not possess more lofty
ideas and a higher ambition than have those
of former generations, and it is high time that
they should begin to think and read and act
for themselves; and "inquire whence they
came, whither going, and who they belong to,"
instead of remaining in the same old ruts in
which they have been trained, and wherein the
human family have been gravitating down-
wards for the past generations.  It is a very
erroneous idea, though we know it to be a long
cherished one, which has been thrown into the
teeth of woman by the stronger sex, that she
must shoulder the curse because Eve ate and
gave to Adam the forbidden fruit. We could
with as much propriety accuse him of being
less ambitious and enterprising than the wom-
an; "if he could do only as he was told," as
this writer says, "he would be no higher in the
scale of moral being than the beasts, who in-
deed know neither virtue nor vice" And the
time has arrived when the "bars must be let
down before her, or she will break-them; and
sentence or disability upon her must stand up-
on the evidence and upon reason, or must fall.'
If "she once had equality, and even leadership,
and made a mess of  it," man, who has pro-
fessed to be the master spirit, has made a worse
"mess," and the majority of men have sold
even their birthright for a bowl of pottage; and
it needs no prophet to predict that the day is
nigh when they will have to call upon the
weaker sex to come to their rescue.  Quarrel-
ing over politics and national affairs has been
left for them to do, till through selfishness and
dishonest meddling with what was none of
their business they have abolished freedom and
made it a perfect farce, thereby proving them-
selves no longer fit to govern or manage alone.
Tyranny, broils and contentions and misrule
have taken the place of honor and justice--the
strong are allowed to oppress the weak, and
pass sentence upon them at their will, and it is
high time that woman began to look around her
and to demand the rights which man has so
unlawfully usurped.  And neither should it be
wondered at if, among the wronged and down-
trodden portion, there should be those who feel
"to kick against the Bible," or occasionally ex-
hibit something more than feminine or Christ-
ian weakness. Though she may be entitled to
the honor of acting upon the stage of life and as-
sisting in improving the drama, and though she
acts her part proportionately well, yet it has
been viewed as an awful absurdity for her to
expect an equal share in the praise or the prof-
its.  They might as well say, and with quite as
much propriety, that all of the men were in-
tended to work out doors, or at the same kind
of business or trade, and that all should look
through the same pair of spectacles, or be fitted
by the same measure, no matter whether they
be tall or short, thick or thin; and each one
must be satisfied with one peck measure, no
matter how much more they may require, or
what their cravings may be, they must look no
farther; than to think that all women should
be satisfied and contented with one and the
same condition--the tiresome and monotonous
routine of domestic, or some other labor--as-
piring to nothing beyond what man considers
to be her sphere, because the majority of their 
foremothers were compelled by circumstances
to drudge their lives out in one and the same
kind of a tread-mill.
	"But times are changing," and I think that
there are more women in Utah who realize this
and understand their true position, and what
constitutes "woman's rights," than can be pro-
duced in any other part of the world; and who,
if they feel their rights infringed upon, are
very apt to express it.  We have no reason to
doubt that the cries of God's daughters and
little ones have ascended up into the higher
courts and that God has taken cognizance of
their "case," and He is delivering them from
the iron rule of selfish and ungodly men.  But
the power and influence of women will increase
just in proportion to the purity and righteous-
ness of her course.  Had we nothing more
than the present translation of the Bible to de-
pend upon we should be as much at sea con-
cerning the Gospel and our future state as the
rest of the world appear to be.  But the revel-
ations given to us through the Prophet Joseph
Smith throw new light upon the Scriptures,
and a great deal that was once a dead letter
can now be interpreted; and we, therefore, take
a more consistent and enlightened view of the
Scriptures, which previous to this was as a
sealed book.
	In the Book of Mormon the record of Ne-
phi tells us of the destruction of Jerusalem
which was foretold to him and his father Lehi
in vision, and that their lives were sought be-
cause they declared to the people the things
that were coming, as they were commanded to.
They were shown that through the "transcrib-
ing, amending, translating, etc.," of the Scrip-
tures by uninspired men, many precious por-
tions would be altered or rejected and cast out,
and that "when the book (Bible) proceeded
forth from the mouth of a Jew it contained
the plainness of the Gospel, 	*	*	*
wherefore these things go forth from the Jews
in purity unto the Gentiles according to the
truth which is in God.  But after it had gone
forth through the hands of the great and abom-
inable church, 	*	*	many plain
and precious things had been taken away.
	"And after these plain and precious things
were taken away, it goeth forth unto all the na-
tions of the Gentiles, and after it goeth forth
unto all the nations, 	*	yea, even across
the mighty waters which thou hast seen with
the Gentiles which have gone forth out of cap-
tivity, thou seest because of the many plain
and precious things which have been taken
out of the book	*	*	*	*	an
exceeding great many do stumble. *	*
Wherefore, saith the Lamb of God, I will be
merciful unto the Gentiles, insomuch that I
will bring forth unto them in mine own power
much of my Gospel,	*	*	behold
these things shall be hid up to come forth unto
the Gentiles by the gift and power of the
Lamb, 	*	*	and blessed are they
who thall seek to bring forth my Zion at that
day, for they shall have the gift and power of
the Holy Ghost: and if they endure unto the
end they shall be lifted up at the last day and
shall be saved; and whoso shall publish peace,
yea, tidings of great joy, how beautiful upon
the mountains shall they be."
	When these records were translated by Jos-
eph Smith he had never dreamed of coming
west, much less that so many thousands would
gather up to these  Rocky Mountains, but that
and much more that is wonderful we have seen
come to pass.
	In this translation we find no refletion cast
upon Eve; but we find the following among the
last words that Lehi spoke to his sons, when
he was feeble and trembling with age: "And
now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he
would not have fallen; but he would have re-
mained in the Garden of Eden, and all things
which were created must have remained in the
same state in which they were, after they were
created; and they must have remained forever,
and had no end, and they would have had no
children: therefore they would have remained
in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they
knew no misery, doing no good, for they knew
no sin.  But, behold, all things have been
done in the wisdom of Him who knoweth all-
things. Adam fell that men might be; and 
men are that they might have joy.  And the
Messiah cometh in the fulness of times, that
He may redeem the children of men from the
fall.  And because they are redeemed from the
fall, they have become free forever, knowing
good from evil; to act for themselves, and not
be acted upon, save it be by the punish-
ment of the law, at the great and last day, ac
cording to the commandments which God hath
given.  Wherefore men are free according to 
the flesh; and all things are given them which
are expedient unto man, and they are free to
choose liberty and eternal life through the
great mediation of all men, or to choose cap
tivity and death according to the captivity and
power of the devil: far he seeketh that all men
might be miserable like unto himself."
	The word of God is to this effect, and it
must needs be that there is an opposition in all
things, or there could have been no purpose in
the end of creation.  Were there not bitter as
well as sweet there would be no opposition, and
therefore there would be nothing to stimulate
one to act for him or herself, neither could
they, were they not enticed by one or the other.
What more could one desire than is contained
in this which belongs to the Gospel, and we
could not ask greater freedom than this, and
which I testify is enjoyed by every soul who
has received the faith and principles of this
the everlasting Gospel; and it would be to the
interest of all if they would but stop and in-
vestigate and weigh the matter well, and not
reject the only true source through which they
may obtain  liberty and eternal life.


[Column 1]
	Having travelled somewhat extensively dur-
ing the past year or two, visiting different set-
tlements with other sisters, I have heard a great
many testimonies by the fireside, as well as in
public, to the purity and godliness of the plu-
ral order of marriage, which has been the
means of uniting the hearts of many sisters who
had come together as strangers, but dwelling
together for years and each struggling to sub-
due their selfishness and practicing the teach-
ings of Christ they had come to love one an-
other, and this attachment had become deep
and lasting. Their testimony did not add any-
thing to my faith, for I know by actual expe-
rience that to enter this order is the first and
surest step towards woman's emancipation from
that thraldom and servitude which has been
imposed npon her by the sterner sex, and un-
der which she has weltered for so many centu-
ries. The Lord has decreed that she shall be
free, and it is her prerogative, as well as man's,
to choose her own path, and improve her tal-
ents as she feels inclined, and show whether or
not her gifts are inferior to his.
	When reading General Butler's opinion
about "woman not being a person." I thought
if he had only been a "Mormon" this would
have furnished a sweet morsel for our oppo-
nents to send forth to condemn us, when
among the most generous of their lords of cre-
ation, few have yet been willing that woman
should have a voice in any public matter
whatever, as if the crime of womanhood
should doom her to perpetual vassalage. The
ladies of Utah were among the first to claim
the franchise, though some of the males who
were not entirely liberated from that old fogy
idea of Paul's, that it "was not decent for a
woman to speak in church," felt considerably
alarmed over the fearful step that some of our
ladies were taking, especially when applying
for the removal of woman's disabilities, think-
ing it very unfeminine, and that they were tres-
passing upon forbidden ground, and would
more than likely make fools of themselves, and
there was quite a war of words over it. but
as ridicule was their best weapon, it gave us
the advantage and they were beaten at their
own game and retired considerably discomfit-
ed. And being blessed with wiser heads, whose
superior judgment overruled, that feeling be-
came subdued if not entirely squelched. Pres-
ident Brigham Young was in favor of this
step, and had proposed it sometime previous to
his death, and the Lord had, no doubt, in-
spired him to do so. The woman's bill had
passed both houses, but it failed to become a
law for lack of the signature of our self-es-
teemed Christian philanthropist, Eli H. Mur-
ray, whose death knell is already sounding as
another warning to that class who try to rise
upon the downfall of others.
	Allowing that the old Scriptures were "not
all given by inspiration," as testified by the
Rev. Dr. Curry, of Chicago, man cannot lay
this sin to Eve's door, as we have no record of
her having a hand in transcribing or changing
them or any of the ordinances of God's house.
And when, what he terms the "ten thousand
old wives' fables," which "the Old Testament
abounds with, finally drop out like a tadpole
loses its tail," the world will have no further
use for the now necessary appendage called
woman, and the honored practice of rais-
ing families will have become obsolete. But
as we are dawning upon a more enlightened
age we find that we are not dependent upon
man's theories or fables, for the heavens are
opened to all who will knock, and there, if we
seek, we can find. It is the privilege of all to
search after the wisdom and the knowledge of
God, which is necessary to enable one to tread
in the path which our Savior marked out, show-
ing plainly that we must give to Him our undi-
vided hearts, and that if we wish to attain to
the highest glory we must pass through similar

[Column 2]
trials, and that if we will do this we can be-
come joint-heirs with Him to kingdoms, princi-
palities and powers. All this and more even
than can be comprehended by man is prom-
ised to every soul who is willing to lay the
foundation for it here. We should realize that
we are all brothers and sisters of one great
family, aud we ought to understand our true
position to our Father who erected His King-
dom upon the same natural principle. The
old serpent, we are told, was once an angel of
God and had fallen from heaven, wherefore he
became a devil, having sought that which was
evil before God; and because he had fallen
from heaven, and had become miserable forev-
er, he sought also the misery of mankind.
When he said unto Eve, "partake of the for-
bidden fruit, and ye shall not die; but ye shall
be as God, knowing good and evil," he did it
for an evil purpose; but the Lord only permit-
ted him to go thus far to carry out His own
plans; and men are lowering themselves, if
they did but know it, when they admit that
such a stigma is attached to their mother,s
name, "You brought sin into the world."
When the Lord said, "Behold the man is
become one of us," He meant the woman as
well and if they became one with the gods in
partaking of that fruit, then can we not draw
this conclusion, that in the restoration of all
things woman, who was the first to know good
and evil, will stand as good a chance to be ex-
alted as man, and that she will reign in like
majesty and power as a queen or goddess over
the kingdom which she has helped to inhabit?
Yes, and every son and daughter who willing-
ly walk in accordance with those laws and
plans laid down by the Father and Son Jesus
—keeping all the commandments which He
has given to His prophets, ancient and modern,
will be enabled, in a day to come, to claim the
same glory for having been faithful over a few
things, He will make them rulers over many.
This is what every Latter-day Saint who has
come to an understanding of this Gospel is
working for, and is what stimulates and ena-
bles us to "endure all things that we may obtain
all things." Abraham was promised that his
seed should become as numerous as the sand
upon the sea shore, and others have received
similar promises. But he had a plurality of
wives, by whom his kingdom was increased
more rapidly, and so also did his sons, and we
see by natural principle that the size of one's
kingdom must depend greatly upon the num-
ber of their posterity as well as by adoption,
and also upon their righteousness in this pro-
bation, and we will find millions of children
whose parents are unworthy of them. And
where there are a number of wives who are
fruitful, the more numerous will become their
posterity, and if they are also righteous each
wife may in this way eventually become a
queen over her own kingdom; and the greater
the number of these kingdoms the greater
will be the man's glory, and all these
will add to the kingdom and glory of our God;
and when their work is finished and presented
to Him, if each have done their part as He
commanded when he divides his estate there is
no power on earth or in heaven that can hin-
der the woman from receiving what she has
earned, for this is her own heritage.
	But what of those who from pure indolence
or the fear of trouble or a man-fearing spirit
have shirked their duties and disobeyed the
commandments and requirements of their Ma-
ker? To be fruitful and multiply and replen-
ish the earth, was the first great command, and
to labor and till the soil was not only "enno-
bling," but healthful, and promotes life, and
such are progressive and give evidence in this
probationary state of their worthiness to fill a
higher and more responsible position in the
next. How much more terrible will be their
sin and their disappointment when they awake

[Column 3]
in the morning of the resurrection and find
their glory has been clipped by their own slack-
ness and refusing to take upon them their cross
or even to bear the souls of men, which is the
glory of woman. There will be greater mercy
for the ones who have sinned through ignor-
ance. Thus we see that the world has been re-
trograding, and those who oppose and fight a-
gainst these principles will find that what they
seemed to have, will be taken from them and
given to another, for they have buried their
talent instead of improving upon it. And
these welcome words cannot be said to them:
"Well done, thou good and faithful servant,
thou hast been faithful over a few things and
I will make thee ruler over many." But the
ones that are destined to fill these high posi-
tions are only those who will yield a strict obe-
dience to the laws of God, and such must make
up their mind to tread a thorny path, being
made partakers of sorrow and suffering that
they may understand the heighth and the depth
of mortal woe; that they may be capable of
feeling for others, and to deal out true justice
and mercy to all. We have the life of our Sa-
vior, which is set as a sample, and if we ever
become joint-heirs with Him, must we not tread
in His footsteps? But He said, "Come unto
me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and
I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you
and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in
heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.
For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light."
Where is there a soul who has rendered will-
ing obedience to His admonitions, that has not
found peace and rest to the soul? We know
that there is far greater safety and hap-
piness both here and hereafter in taking the
course that was marked out by the Great and
Alwise Creator than to trifle with and outrage
His laws and the laws of nature, and thereby be-
come the greater slaves to passion and dissipa-
tion. And we know if the plural order of mar-
riage had not been instituted His grandest pur-
poses would have been thwarted—a fact which
no one understands better than does Satan,
and this is why we are prompted continually
to do evil and to neglect our duties, and they
are his agents who are so energetic in opposing
this Church, because he knows it to be the on-
ly true one; which will receive and act upon this
and other principles which God has condes-
cended to reveal to us through His boy-Proph-
et, Joseph Smith, who, being unlearned, was
not puffed up in pride and vain conceit, but
was entirly dependant upon Him for revela-
tion and wisdom; and he suffered the common
lot of all who have undertaken to war with
wickedness and the fierce prejudices of a stero-
typed and corrupt Christianity. They are the
ones who have thrown aside their free agency
and do not exercise their own reason, but have
become the willing slaves to priestcraft and
public opinion, and they are afraid to follow
even their honest convictions. The Bible does
not say that God hateth this plural order, but
 that "He hateth putting away." And what
of the present state of society in the Christian
world and the crime of infanticide which, in
the words of a popular physician, is "increas-
ing with fearful rapidity and has really reached
such a magnitude as to seriously affect the
growth of civilized nations and to threateu
their very existence."		*		*	The
most unstinted and scathing invectives are
used in characterizing the criminality of a mo-
ther who takes the life of her unborn babe,
but a word is seldom said of the one who forced
upon her the circumstances which gave the
unfortunate one existence. Though doctors,
ministers, moralists have said much upon this
subject and written more, it is reasonable to
suppose they will never accomplish much
of anything in the direction of reform until
they recognize the part the man acts in all of
these sad cases, and begin to demand reform


where it is most needed, and where its achieve-
ment will effect the most good." And here is
the testimony of another learned physician:
"From a very large verbal and written corres-
pondence in this and other states, I am satis-
fied that we have become a nation of murder-
ers." Is this not a home thrust, and what
more need be said in condemnation of a
government that is so lost to every sense of
honor and humanity and have become so ac-
customed to these crimes that their consciences
are scathed over, as it were, with a hot iron.
And this is the condition of society from
whence comes the cry for "Mormons,' to repu-
diate every wife but one- leave them with a
tarnished name—destitute of homes aud sup-
port and bring them down, if possible, to their
own degraded level, ignoring the very thing
which would soonest rid the world of these so-
cial impurities. They know as well as we do
that this kind of marriage would be a promoter
of virtue if it were only made honorable be-
fore the world; but that would destroy their
own pet institutions, therefore they cry it
down. But if purity is ever brought into the
political world it will be when women enjoy
equality with men and can have a voice in
making the laws, and when they will claim the
freedom of choosing and marrying honorable
husbands who will not be ashamed to own
them before the world as wives, though they
may have a plural number. And this is the
only thing that will enable us to erect a lasting
barrier against those pernicious and demoraliz-
ing influences that are fostered and encouraged
in the midst of our would-be reformers. A
painful evidence of its looseness and immoral
tendencies we are obliged occasionally to wit-
ness, and the withered hopes of those who were
in a measure blind to the vicious and baneful
influences that were gradually thrown around
their loved ones. We are fixed and deter-
mined to grapple with error and prejudice un-
til a better system of social government is es-
tablished, and we fear not the consequences,
knowing that we are in the service of Him
who commanded it and that He will still pro-
vide a way for our deliverance, and that He
has accepted the bleeding sacrifice that we
have made for the public weal as well as our
future glory, and which has stimulated the
weakest saint who has launched forth to remove
the obstacles that are thrown up like mountains
before us. There is no other panacea to be
found, and we shall be enabled through this to
produce a higher and nobler tpye of humanit-
ty, alike in physical, mental and moral growth.
And we defy any earthly potentate of power
to compel us to give testimony against our hus-
bands who have other wives for conscience
sake. According to an old time proverb,
"When woman will she will, you may depend
on't, but when she won't she won't, and there’s
an end on't." And we think that they will
have to begin soon, to be enabled to roof over
sufficient Territory to hold all the wives and
children who will refuse to give evidence to
convict the men of their choice. Which prac-
tice should be considered the most odious in
the sight of decent people, that which was fol-
lowed by men of God anciently, or the modern
custom of brothel-keeping-- houses of iniquity,
which are built and sustained by fathers and
husbands who are open perjurers? Running
after “strange women,” whose "mouth is a deep
pit," and "he that is abhored of the Lord shall
fall therein, his house is the way to hell, going
down to the chambers of death; he that doeth
it destroyeth his own sould."
	The women of this church are generally of
the strong-minded class, and as we have dis-
carded the various receipts recommended by
the pious male quacks, we advise them to retire
awile and allow us to mix an swallow our
own physic, if we need it, instead of forcing it
down other people's throats. But we will as-
sure them that from these mountains is to roll
that little stone spoken of in the Scriptures,
which will bring about this great work of re-
form. And though our motives are now mis-
understood and we are looked down upon as
the very scum of society, we do not feel it, but
consider ourselves among the most highly fa-
vored of God's children, and console ourselves
with this assurance and the knowledge that we
will yet be looked up to and honored as the
founders of a superior system of Christianity.
			HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


146	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTHING ON THE BOOKS.
			----------
With patient faces and timid steps
	To the lofty Gate they came,
And answered each to the keeper there,
	With trembling lips their name,
For their earth-life work was done, and now
	They must meet its praise or blame.

On the faces brown, weary and old,
	The pearly radiance fell;
It showed their faded and homely robes,
	Their poor coarse hands as well;
That these were the poor and lowly born
	It needed no words to tell.

O, sweet the spirit upon the air!
	And e'en through the gates of gold
The heavenly strains, entrancingly
	Rising and falling, stole;
Ah, the joy and pain, the hopes and fears--
	By our tongues could ne'er be told.

"What record bring ye from the earth below!"
	Then all trembling answered be:
"We tolled in poverty all our days,
	I and my wives, all three;
The way was hard but we've kept the faith
	And brought our children to Thee."

He opened wide the second Book,
	"Lo, there are the deeds," he said,
“Thou hast won eternal glory here,
	And in thy trial's stead
For every test a jewel bright
	In the crown that waits thy head.

"With these, thy wives and children dear,
	Whom no guile could tempt or win.
Who blushed not to live their Maker's laws
	'Gainst might and pride and sin;
Where the Gods and saints in glandess dwell,
	O, thou blessed, enter in."

And then came up to the Golden Gate
	Those who stood next behind,
Their faces beamed with the certain fa
	Of bliss they looked to find,
For in their past neither shame or sin
	Their hopes to check or bind.

"Our record below? My wife and I
	So happy a time have had,
Our friends were true and our fortunes blest,
	They very skies seemed glad;
We mourned no trials, and wrought no wrongs
	To make other creatures sad."

He opened wide the Book of Deeds,
	And--"lo, there is naught," he said,
"Recorded here in rewards for thee,
	Thy past is blank and dead;
For thou hast lived for thyself, not God,
	All thy idle hopes are fled.

"For hath not God commanded thee--
	Woe to them that dwell at east?--
Could not Jesus' words or His dying, touch
	Thy hearts, or bend thy knees?
Thou canst not enter into His joy
	Who hath suffered not like these."

Then turned they from the Golden Gate,
	From the holy light away.
Heard In despair the rapturous hymn
	That ever seemed to say:
"Too late, O soul! hast thou come to Him--
	He knoweth thee not to-day."
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Feb. 9th., 1884.


THINKING OF HOME.
			-----
'Tis Sabbath evening, hushed and still.
	Away in the chilly north;
From the window of my sister's home
	I look with sad eyes forth.
The shades of night are gathering fast;
	Another wintry day is gone,
Like many others has it passed,
	Without a word from home.

And while I gaze with aching eyes
	Upon this dreary, snow-clad vale,
I think of the far-off sunny skies,
	And watch for the evening mail.
The fence-tops here are scarcely seen
	Above the drifting sone;
I think of the fields of emerald green
	And the limpid brooks that flow

Near my own dear home in the sunny south,
	And my full heart breathes a prayer
When I think of the weary miles between
	Myself and the loved ones there;
I shrink amid the deepening gloom,
	Close to the window pane,
To hide from the friends within the room
	The tears that drop like rain.

For when my nightly rest I seek,
	No little evening prayers I hear
Ascending on the stilly air
	My home-sick heart to cheer;
No dimpled arms steal round my neck;
	No soft lips press my cheek;
No sweet mouth closes against my ears
	Its loving words to speak.

No strong arm near on which to lean,
	Except the arm of Truth's alone;
Loved faces only seen in dreams
	Around the hearth at home,
Where sweet associations all
	More dear than aught on earth,
Until we lose them for a while
	We cannot know their worth.

Old Time, for once your flight I dare,
	Nor care how swift you fly
With balmy spring upon your wings
	The snow-clad earth to dry.
A joy it is to meet with friends
	I have seen not for years,
But sorrow with my pleasure blends;
	My grief finds vent in tears.

'Tis seldom I am quite so sad
	And home-sick as to-night,
But dreadful news received to-day
	Has shut out all that's bright.
Dear friends in Pleasant Grove are bowed
	'Neath sorrow's chast'ning hand;
While death and mourning seem to be
	Sown broadcast through that land.

So many jewels rich and rare
	From strickened homes are torn;
Three little daughters, pure and fair,
	A sister's heart must mourn.
And oh! how sad to meet with him,
	The husband, father dear,
But just returned to his loving wife, 
	Her bitter grief to share.

One sweet young friend, a sister's child,
	Has one bright, prattling boy;
Her poor heart now with grief is wild;
	Her home bereft of joy,
For he, like many more besides,
	With dread disease is low,
Which fills the hearts of loving friends
	With sorrow, pain and woe.

We pray our Heavenly Father
	Their precious lives to save,
And if it can consistent be,
	To spare them from the grave;
That they may live in peace and health
	Until the Lord shall come,
And hear without a taste of death,
	The welcome sound, "Well done"
				MARY A. FARNSWORTH.
Georgetown, Feb. 8th., 1884.


148	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: [-]ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	MARCH 1, 1884


[Column 1]
A FRIENDLY VISIT.

	The recent visit of the Wyoming Legislature
to this city out of courtesy to the Legislature of 
Utah, was an event of considerable importance,
and unusual in the history of Territories. It
will doubtless be beneficial in creating a feeling
of greater interest in each other's future welfare.
The Wyoming party, consisting of the mem-
bers of the Legislature, the President of the
Council and Speaker of the House, with a
number of ladies, and accompanied by other in-
vited guests, arrived in this city on the evening
of Feb. 24th.
	A party of gentlemen from Salt Lake, includ-
ing Mayor Jennings and some members of the
City Council, and a delegation from the Utah
Legislature, met the Wyoming people in Ogden
where greetings were interchanged and appro-
priate demonstrations made by the city authori-
ties; then the Wyoming party and the Utah
Legislature attended the Theatre the same
evening of their arrival, by invitation of the
City Council.
	The next day the two Legislatures met in
joint session. At 11:30 His Excellency, Govern-
or Murray, of Utah, and the Legislature of 
Wyoming entered the hall. President of the
Council, Hon. W. W. Cluff introduced Hon. M. 
H. Halliday, President of the Wyoming Coun-
cil, who addressed the audience for a few mo-
ments in a very able and dignified manner.
Hon. James Sharp, Speaker of the House, in-
troduced Hon. F. R. Jones, Speaker of the
House of Wyoming Legislature, who mad
some vary suitable and complimentary remarks,
and closed by saying, "With hearts as large as
our immense plains we invite you to return our
visit." Hon. F. D Richards moved the adop-
tion of the following resolutions:
	Where[--], the people of the Territory of Utah
are this day honored with the presence of the 
Legislative Assembly of our neighboring Terri-
tory, Wyoming, whose material prosperity and
rapid growth command our admiration and res-
pect, a Territory famed throughout the United
States as the pioneer in removing from women
all the political disabilities and placing them
side by side with the sterner sex, as sharers in
the rights, as well as the duties of citizens, a
movement in which Utah has shown her
complete sympathy by legislation, of almost as
early a date as Wyoming's suffrage law;
	And, whereas, The two Territories are bound
together by interests in many respects similar,
and by ties of common brotherhood and cstcem;
therefore, be it.
	Resolved, That we, the Legislative Assembly,
in joint session assembled, desiring to show our
appreciation of this friendly visit, in the name
of the people of Utah, whom we represent, here-
by extend to our distinguished visitors a cordial
[Column 2]
greeting and hearty welcome to the oldest Ter-
ritory of of our great Republic.
	The resolutions were adopted. Gov. Murray
was invited to address the audience, and spoke
a few minutes in a happy vein and was heartily
applauded.
	Prest. Cluff made brief remarks, expressive
of friendship and union between the Territories.
	Speaker Sharp gave a few words of welcome
in a very happy manner.
	Hon. F. E. Warren, of Wyoming Council,
made a very interesting speech on pioneer life
and emigrant travel and other matters of that
kind, and after speaking of the great resources
of the two Territories, classed them as the two
greatest Territories in America.
	Hon. H. V. S. Groesback, of Wyoming, spoke,
and recited an original poem, which gave
a poetic idea of the desert transformed by labor
and toil into a land of wealth and civilization.
	Speehes were also made by Hon. A. L. Bab-
bit, Hon. H. E. Tischemacher, of Wyoming,
Hon. F. S. Richards and Hon. Abram Ha[-]ch,
of Utah.
	Hon. Mahlon Chance, of Ohio, made a very
amusing and elequent speech.
	Judge Emerson and Secretary Thomas [-]sch
made a few remarks, after which Hon. F. E. 
Warren spoke again upon the theme of Woman
Suffrage, which is exciting the attention of the
Assembly at Wyoming.
	Mr. Babbitt followed in a few remarks on the
same subject. Hon. Erastus Snow was called
upon as the greatest living pioneer of Utah, and
he gave a cursory review of what had transpired
in the history of this great Rocky Mountain re-
gion.
	Counselor Hammond moved to have 1,000
copies of the minutes of this joint session print-
ed for distribution.
	Session closed with benediction pronounced
by Dr. Rapter, of the Wyoming company.
	In the evening a grand civic ball was given in
the theatre in honor of the distingished visitors. It
was a very enjoyable affair, but the dancing was
the principal feature of the evening. An ele-
gant lunch was served in the building, and
everything passed off pleasantly. Prest. Taylor,
Mayor Jennings, and many other representa-
tive people were present, and participated in
the social festivities of the occasion.
	Saturday morning a reception was held at the
Gardo House, through the kindness of Prest.
Taylor, who arranged with the Wyoming party
to have the ladies of Utah and Wyoming meet
each other and have a few words together, and
patronize a little. Accordingly, about twenty
of the Utah ladies, and about the same number
of the Wyoming party, were introduced, and
had some little conversation on subjects of gen-
eral interact; mostly education and suffrage.
Among the ladies were Sisters E. R. S. Smith,
Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne, Sophia
W. Taylor, Helen Mar Whitney, Emily Hill
Woodmansee, Emily H. Little, Amanda M. 
Cannon, Mary A. Taylor, Presendia L Kim-
ball, Bathsheba W. Smith, Maggie Y. Taylor
and several others. One interesting matter
talked of was women upon a jury; it is a sub-
ject that has been discussed pro and con more
than any other perhaps in connection with wo-
men having the franchise. Mrs. Martha Boyse,
of Laramie, related a circumstance of women on
a jury in a murder case. It was very new and 
to women who believe in political equality it is
the practical workings that give strength to 
convinctions.
	Mr. and Mrs. Mager informed us that in Car-
bon County they had a lady school superintend-
end, Mrs. Smith, who had given the most per-
fect satisfaction, ably and efficiently filling the
position. When she was nominated a man
was her oppenent, but the vote was carried by
[Column 3]
immense majority for the lady. It has been 
pretty well proven that there are some offices 
just as suitable for  ladies as for gentlemen.


LETTER V.

BERN, Switzerland, Jan. 28th, 1884.

DEAR SISTER BELLE
	We returned a few days since from Munich,
where we received your good letter of Dec, 7th
ult. Where the letter has been wandering for
six weeks I cannot imagine, but I am exceed-
ingly glad to get it at last.	*	*	*	*
	While in Munich we spent every minute of
our time to the best advantage, you know full
well how tiresome sight-seeing is, but we h[--]
an excellent time. Munich is a grand, old city,
and the people are so courteous and polite. It
is said to be the cheapest capital in Europe, and
certainly there is much to boast of in beauty
and magnificense. The city is full of soldiers,
and we saw them drill nearly every day, and
the music was charming.	*	*	The first
day we visited the Old Pinakole[--], a splendid
picture gallery, where we saw pictures by
Rapheal, Murillo, Titan Tintoretta and two
large rooms with adjoining cabinets hung with
pictures by Rubens and Durer. I am most
pleased with Murillo's pictures, they are so
natural and life like.
	The next day we walked up the Maximillian
Strausse, the finest street of the city; the build-
ings on this street are very grand, and in the
center of the street are many large, fine statues.
Right at the head of the street on a hill is the
Maxianium, a very fine, handsome building; it
was cloudy when we got there so we could not
enjoy seeing the pictures so much. We visited
the South Cemetery, the finest one in Germany.
While there we saw two Catholic funerals.
	The next morning we visited several Catholic
Churches. They are all wonderfully decorated.
n one of them is a statue of Eugene B [---]-
nais, crowned as a Greek hero. We went from
one church to another, until I saw all I ever
wish to of Catholics At every door were beg-
gars crossing themselves, counting beads and
begging for money.
	While in Munich we saw, in the Hof Thea-
tre, the opera of Faust. This theatre is the
largest in Germany, and the fr[---]g is very
fine, yet it seemed to me bare and unfinished.
The boxes were none of them draped, and the
curtain was very ugly. The scenery, however,
was excellent, and the manner in which it was
manipulated was perfectly wonderful. There
were sixty musicians in the orchestra, and a
very full chorus. Imagine how pleasant it
would be to see Faust in the original language,
and performed so excellently. We also saw the
Vampire after Byron in this theatre. This is
the first time I ever went to the theatre with-
out a hat; all the ladies took off their wraps and
hats, and I think the idea is a very sensible one,
for sometimes it is quite annoying to sit behind
a great, big hat and have one's view obstructed.
	I must tell you I have seen a queen. As we
walked down Maximillian Strau[-]ss we met the
mother queen with another lady and a guard
taking a morning walk. Every one stopped and
bowed to her. The last day we were in Munich
we went to the Palace, and were shown through
some of the rooms. In one room there is a bed-
stead which cost 800,000 florias, and it took forty
people ten years to make it. It is most beauti-
ful, ornamented with all red b[---]ded velvet,
embroidered with gold thread. The finest room
we were in was the Throne Room, where there
are a number of large statues made from cannons
captured in war and coated with gold. This
room is only used for baptisms, and when the
king receives foreign ministers. The rooms were


very singular, all inlaid floors and gilded ceilings
with either painted walls or walls hung with
velve[-]. The ball room was very lovely; opening
from this were smaller rooms hung with pic-
tures of beautiful women. These were called
the Gallery of beauties. Among them was only
one English picture, Lady Brook, of London.
They were all very lovely. I cannot tell you
half I saw in Munich, but shall talk you all to
death when I come home telling you all that I
have seen. I had such a delightful time there,
and shall never forget it.
	John Q. has gone to-day to Shirley to hold
meeting, and I am in the office writing. It is a
very stormy, wintry day, and would not tempt
many for such a long walk as he has taken.
	I see the little boys here, and I think I will
tell Sep. how they act. The most of them are
very polite, and they all go to school. They
carry their books in a satchel strapped on their
backs, and they often stop on the way to spin
tops. They have whips with which they make
the tops just spin round, instead of strings like
the boys at home.
	The sisters are gathering for meeting, though
it is not near time. The sisters here are all so
kind, and make such a fuss over me, as if I were
a wonderful creature, something different from
them, by the way they treat me.
	After all there is nothing like home, and no
people quite like our own of course.
	We had a very, funny experience crossing
Lake Constance last Thursday. It was quite
stormy, and our companions were not very
brave sailors; when the boat tipped they jumped
from the table and started for the doors and
windows in a most frightened manner. We
laughed at them for seeming so stupid, as to be
frightened at such a little lurch.	*	*	*
	John Q. joins me in love to Mr. Sears, all the
children, yourself, and remember me to all
friends, and believe me, ever your loving sister,
								ANNIE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 149


[Column 1]
LETTER VI.

BERN, Switzerland, Jan. 31st; 1884.

MY DEAREST MOTHER:
	John Q. received word from Prest. Smith to-
day to the effect that his release was recalled,
and that he was to remain here until the Presi-
dency at home should release him. President
Taylor sent a cablegram, stating that he regret-
ted the release; and preferred for him to remain;
so you see we are not to be with you so very
soon after all.
	When the release came it was wholy unex-
pected, and seemed then rather untimely, but
now John Q. has made every preparation to re-
turn, and we should have started Tuesday, and
our hopes were raised to the highest pitch, and
John Q. was just too happy for words to think
of being at home once more. You can well im-
agine how quickly our ardor cooled when to-
day's news arrived, but of course "what must
be, must be," and we will try and be content un-
til the proper time arrives for us to come. Per-
haps now John Q. can accomplish what he had
intended doing before being released, namely,
making a tour through all the conferences. Of
course I do not know, nor do I think he knows
yet himself.
	Bro. Schonfield is here, having come to pre-
side, and John Q. was handing everything over
to him, but this will all change now, too, I sup-
pose. If we were not too disapointed we might
have a hearty laugh at the predicament things
are in, or were this morning; it did'nt take John
Q. long to straighten matters though, and he is
now working away in the office as though his
release had never been thought of, notwith-
standing this morning THE STERN, with his

[Column 2]
farewell in, was all ready for the press, and he
had just time enough to stop its being print
ed.
	While we were in Munich we received three
excellent letters from you, and I know I ought
to have answered before, but I waited until I
had answered several other letters of less im-
portance, and had plenty of time to write you a
long letter, and now I am glad I waited, for had
I written before my letter would have been fil-
led with descriptions of our preparations to
leave, and plans for our journey.
	What you ask about the Relief Societies here
we had already intended doing, and will send
you a report as soon as possible. I think it will
be quite interesting to know of the societies in
this land. It has been more than interesting to
me to see and know the Saints here in their na-
tive country, and to become acqaainted with
their ways and habits. I see and realize now
their feelings when they go into a strange coun-
try, where everything is so very different from
what they had been used to. We have often
laughed at them for their awkwardness and
seeming ignorance, and I have now learned that
"they are not so green as they look." I can eas-
ily account for their tripping down the middle
of the street, for here, in Switzerland, the side-
walks are so narrow and so filled up with mer-
chandize that they have to take the middle of
the street or nothing. In Basal, and some other
places, there are raised and paved sidewalks only
wide enough for one foot at a time, and one has
to be an expert tight-rope walker to keep his
balance on such a place. Don't be surprised if
you see me strolling down the middle of the
street when I come home, staring with all my
might at the buildings; that's what I do here.
	I was greatly surprised and pained to hear of
the death of Sister Grossbeck, also Mary Young's;
how sudden they both seemed; I had not even
heard that they were sick, though of course I
knew Mrs. Young was in delicate health. Poor,
little Fanny, I think she is very much alone
now, but I suppose she will have much sym-
pathy, and it is likely she will not miss her
mother as much as Luella after all.
	The weather here has been too mild, I think,
for winter time, and there has been much sick-
ness around. Three of our Elders have been
very sick; one a Bro. Evans, from Lehi, so bad
that his release was recommended, and he was
taken to England. He has been getting better
there, and the last news we had was to the
effect that he might soon be able to resume his
labors in the field. His sickness was quite a
trial for him; he came when I did, and went
straight to Berlin. Bro. Pack left him there to
come to the Conference, and he was sick all the
time and among perfect strangers, and could not
speak a word of the language. Was not that a
sad experience for a young man? But he has
overcome it all after a severe struggle.
	While we were in Munich we went to several
Catholic Churches. 'Twas Sunday morning,
and our people have no meetings in that part, so
we thought we would see what kind of religion
the people of Munich had. The churches are
mostly very old, and look quite dilapidated on
the outside. but the interior is most beautifully
decorated. The first one we entered was the
St. Michaels, where the soldiers assembled for
worship. At each door stood a priest behind a
box, with some such inscription on it as "[-]etrus
pfennigs," and everyone was expected, of course,
to drop a piece of money in these boxes. Just
at the door was the fount of holy water, where
each one stopped, dipped in their fingers and
crossed themselves; then they all turned to
some image or picture, and bowed; all this was
done with haste, without the least sign of feel-
ing. There were many people coming in and

[Column 3]
going through these movements, adding a short
prayer and then leaving, all during the services.
The priest, in his long, white robe with a lace
ruffle round it, after bowing to several images,
and going through a routine of prayers, bows,
and other movements, at last reached the stand,
which protruded from the side wall about half
way down the church, and from there he stood
and preached his sermon.
	The next church was a smaller one, but more
elaborately decorated with frescoing than the
first, and the carved altars and fizures were very
beautiful, only they had a blue cloth dress over
the image of Mary, and one of the saints was
dressed in yellow. In this church they were
having "High Mass," and the music was very
beautiful. After the opening hymn, through a
curtained door came a priest, followed by a
youth with steaming incense, and then two
little boys with burning tapers; all were dressed
in the white robes. The priest looked wonder-
fully sober, and first he knelt in front of an al-
tar, then one of the boys brought a red scarf
with a cross on the back of it and spread it
across his shoulders; all the congregation then
knelt. After a while the priest arose, parted
some curtains over the altar and there crossed
himself with the water which was in a bowl un-
der a golden crucifix, he then proceeded to an-
other image and went through a similar process,
then reached an altar with Mary's image just
above; here everyone knelt again, and the red
scarf was taken off, and another put on, then
the incense was swung back and forth, the
choir sang and the priest read. This lasted some
time with an occasional change of scarf, and a
turn or two to the congregation. We stood this
as long as possible and then took our departure;
only think, mother, how this must have affected
me. I could not breathe freely until I reached
the street. It seemed to me that some dreadful
spirit was prevailing in there; it was certainly
not the pure, peaceful spirit that always abides
in places where I have been accustomed to wor-
ship. All around they bowed and bent and
prayed to images of gold and bronze and brass,
and begged their congregation for more help to
erect these inanimate objects, while at every
door stood ragged, sickly women or children,
begging alms from those who could liberally
give for building more images, but scorned the
poor, living creatures. Though I felt so disgust-
ed with these churches, still I had started out
to visit them, and so walked into the next one
we came to. This was the Church of the Thea-
tines. There were no particular services going
on in here, only the people were praying and
bowing, and the priests were collecting pfennigs.
In all these churches are fine frescoes and
paintings, and in this one are some by Tintor-
etto, Zanchi and others. This church contains
the Royal Vaults, and the Emperor Charles vii
reposes here.
	The finest of the old churches we visited was
the Frauenkirche, this is very full of figures and
is decorated almost too much; from the center
hangs a large crucifix. The principal object in
this place is the Monument of Emperor Louis,
the Bavarian, a catafalque in dark marble, with
decorations in bronze, and four knights at the
corners acting as guards to the tomb. On a pil-
lar is a Turkish flag, captured in 1688. The
prettiest church we were in was "The All
Saints' Church." This is the Court Chapel, and
is joined to the Palace. It is very small, but
exceedingly beautiful; the columns and walls
are made of variegated marble, and the frescoes
are all painted on a gold ground. The newest
and last church we were in was the Basilica.
This is also very beantiful and the frescoes were


done by He[-]s and his pupils, but it is too much
like the others for me to favor you with another
description. You no doubt have tired by this
time reading of churches, but I am very glad I
saw them and saw the services in them, for it
was only another lesson to me of the truth of
the Gospel and the false teachings of the world.
What is there in all this mockery that so many
thousands should be bound to it? I shuddered
as I left these places, and it took a long walk un-
der the bright, shining sky to relieve me of the
feelings of pain and dread that these sights had
brought upon me.
	What else we saw in Munich Belle's letter will
tell you, though it may not give much of a des-
cription of the sights I was so interested in I
enjoyed my visit there very much indeed.
	Give my love to father and all the folks, in
which John Q. joins me.	*	*	*	Re-
member me to all your lady friends, and thank
them for me for their kind remembrance.
	With the greatest love for you, my darling
mother—for my sisters, and our own precious
boy,
	I am as ever your loving daughter,
								ANNIE.


150	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	To the Stake Presidents of Y. L. M. I. A: It
is very desirable that we have full and correct
reports from each stake. Will the Secretaries
please send them in at once, in order that the
Secretary of the Central Board may be prepared
to make her report in due time for the Annual
Conference in April proximo. The reports
should be forwarded so as to reach here not later
than March 15th. Address, Louie M. Wells,
Salt Lake City. B x 5[-]5.
			ELIMINA S. TAYLOR, President.
			LOUIE M. WELLS, Secretary.


BIRTHDAY.

DEAR EDITOR:
	The Relief Society of the 8th Ward is in a
prosperous condition. January 15th the officers
met at the residence of Sister E. B. Fletcher as
a surprise on her 61st birthday. They also pre-
sented her with a suitable present, which was
highly appreciated by one who is held in great
esteem by the ward. A bounteous repast was
spread, and partaken of with pleasure by all
present.			SARAH A. HAWKINS,
							Secretary.


PLEASE TAKE NOTICE.

	Secretaries in the foreign branches, on the
Islands and in the States, should forward their
statistical and financial reports to the Secretary
of Relief Societies, instead of to the Editor of
EXPONENT. It is necessary that the reports be
received here two weeks prior to each general
conference.
				MRS. S. M. KIMBALL,
					Secretary Central Board.

	THE Stake Secretaries of Primary Associations
are earnestly requested to distribute blanks to
the various branches and obtain complete annu-
al reports in order that concise Stake reports
may reach the central board by March 15th,
1884.					LILLIE FREEZE,
	Secretaty Central Board of Primary Associa-
tions.


WE have several excellent articles left over
from this issue; essays, poems and other import-
ant matter.


[Column 1]﻿
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

VIRGIN CITY, Jan. 10th, 1884.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Primary Association of this place was
joined by the Primary of Duncan's Retreat and
held a very pleasing little fair on January 8th.
It was opened with prayer by Charles Work-
man, one of our little Primary boys, at ten
o'clock a.m. One hour and a half was then
spent in viewing the many little articles the
children had made. These displayed all kinds
of work, both by boys and girls, from the com-
ical Punch and Judy, made from wood and
dressed by two little boys, to the delicate lace
and flowers. One piece of work, deserving
special mention, was the piecing of blocks for
a quilt, by Minnie Burke, a little girl of six
years old; the work spoke well indeed of one
so young. All the work showed that the little
folks had been very patient and persevering to
accomplish so much. There was a very nice
quilt made by the Association, which we are
going to donate to the Deseret Hospital; there
were also pies, cakes and bread made by both
boys and girls that were well worthy of praise.
After viewing the articles all were seated, the
house being hardly able to hold all that were
there. They were then entertained with songs,
dialogues, recitations, speeches, etc, by the
children until one o'clock, when a sumptuous
picnic was served to all in the house. Prizes
were then awarded to the children.
	At three o'clock the house was cleared, and
the children enjoyed themselves until five
o'clock in the dance, during which they were
regaled with candy. All expressed themselves
well satisfied with their day's enjoyment.
	Wishing for the success of your valuable lit-
tle paper, and the welfare of the Primaries,
			We remain your sisters,
				MINERVA PRATT, President,
				ELEANOR OWENS, Counselor.

GRAHAM, PINE P. O., ARIZONA.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	On the 21st of last September our stake
president, Willmirth East, with her counsel-
or, M. K. Ransom, also Sister Carpenter, of the
Young Ladies' Society, came over to this place,
and we spent the evening very pleasantly.
	On the 22nd called a meeting and organized
a Relief Society. Sister Anna Jorganson,
President; Janet Anderson and Mary Petter-
son, Counselors; Mary E. Skinner, Secretary;
Mazibea M. Anderson, Treasurer; Lorina Wil-
son, President of teachers.
	The sisters gave us good counsel and advice.
Our meetings have not been so well attended
on account of sickness, as we have all been af-
flicted the past season with whooping cough,
malarial and intermittent fevers; also fever and
ague, and some have had very sore eyes, but
thank God
		"We are yet alive,
		And see each others' face,"
although some of them are rather long and
pale yet. We realize we are living in a day of
trials, and we do not expect to miss our por-
tion.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion and
the success of the EXPONENT,
		We remain, your's truly,
				ANNA JORGANSON, Pres.
				MARY E. SKINNER, Sec.

OGDEN.

DEAR SISTER:
	The ladies of the Relief Society of Weber
County held their conference in the Ogden
Tabernacle, Dec. 7th, 1883. After the usual
devotional exercises the minutes of the previ

[Column 2]
ous conference were read and accepted. The
presidents of the different branch societies gave
verbal reports of their respective wards, show-
ing them to be progressing in every way; the
members all striving to do their part in the
Kingdom of God.
	Sister Zina D. Young Smith then spoke to us
upon a variety of subjects pertaining to the
Gospel, explaining each, as only a true Saint of
God can explain His divine will, giving much
good and wise counsel to her brothers and sis-
ters present.
	Counselors Hattie C. Brown and Sarah Her-
rick and Apostle F. D. Richards also address-
ed the congregation, each expressing high and
noble sentiments in regard to the work of God
upon the earth in these days, which was lis-
tened to with great interest by the large con-
gregation.
	The conference adjourned for three months.
Closed by singing “The Spirit of God like a
fire is burning.” Benediction by Apostle F.
D. Richards.
	P. S. Please excuse this short report, and
me for not sending sooner, as I should have
done.			Respectfully,
						MONTA HARRIS.


MUSINGS

	As I sit to-night by the cheerful fire-side my
thoughts wander afar back, and I am led to
exclaim, "Oh, how I am blessed; what peace
surrounds me; all is calm and quiet; the angel
of peace is with me." I have just finished
reading some incidents connected with the
early history of the Church, and could not
help comparing the condition of the Saints in
those days, and their condition to-day. Then
they were driven before vile and wicked mobs,
hungry and cold, men, women and children,
who were doing no evil, but simply trying to
serve God. Oh! what a trial it must have been
to parents to see their little children suffering
with hunger, cold and sickness, as many of
them did. But how are we situated to-day?
Are we not greatly blessed in being permitted
to dwell in comparative peace? We really are,
and we cannot show too much gratitude to our
Heavenly Father for these blessings, for if it
were not for His power we would be swept
from the face of the earth, for aside from our-
selves, as a people, we have no friends on earth.
See how hard Congress is trying to deprive us
of our rights, and how we are being misrepre-
sented by evil and corrupt people; both by men
and women. For instance read accounts of
Mrs. Angie Newman’s lecture in Cincinnatti.
When I read such reports as she gives of us as
a people, it makes my blood boil, for I feel as
though the Lord would not censure us for re-
senting such gross insults; for are not such wick-
ed lies insults? I take them as such; and to
think that she would have the impudence to
offer to help us. Do we need her help, in fact
do we need the help of any of our enemies?
No, thanks be to God, we do not. She had
better help those who need her help; but I fear
she does not help many. I don’t think she is
charitable enough. If she was she would have
charity enongh to at least tell the truth about
us. Oh, how little they seem to understand
that they are sealing their own dooml Surely
they stand in need of our pity. We should
have the "moral courage" to stand all that the
wicked do or say against us. for we know that
God is at the helm, and He has acknowledged
us as His people, and also that if we would
serve Him that He would fight our battles.
Then how necessary it is for us to serve Him.
What a glorious reward awaits those who are
faithful even unto the end.
	Look at Oliver Cowdery, a man once high
in authority, who not only saw, but who con-


verzed with holy angels; and then to think that
he should fall. It makes me shudder, and I
wonder if I will be able to stand when the
great day of trial comes, for there will surely
be a day come when we will be tried to the
very heart’s core, and if we cannot stand the
trials, and fall, oh, what a fall it will be.
When on the other hand, if we remain firm
and steadfast, what a great reward awaits us.
My greatest desire for myself is, that I may
have firmness enough to stand true to my God,
true to myself, and true to my fellow men, and
that I may have wisdom to rear my children in
the way of the Lord.	
	We, as mothers in Israel, have a great res-
ponsibility resting upon us, for the Lord has
blessed us with our children, and we will be
held accountable for the care we take of them,
and we should be careful to set them a good
example, and counsel and reason with them,
and warn them while they are young of the
evils that they are surrounded with. We
should also be very prayerful ourselves, and
then we can teach our children to pray. If we
will endeavor to instill the principles of the
Gospel in their hearts and minds while they
are young we need not fear for them in the fu-
ture. I have heard children say that they are
never taught to pray, and yet their parents
pretend to be Latter-day Saints. Now, can
they truly be called such? Alas, I fear not!
and the day is surely coming when we will
have to be Saints in very deed, or we will be
cast out entirely. I do not care for the sneers
of unbelievers, all I want is the approval of
the Almighty, and to feel that He is pleased
with my efforts to serve Him. Some luke-warm
Saints, when they are in the presence of unbe-
lievers, have not the moral courage to say they
are what the world calls “Mormons.” Why
should they be afraid? Why not stand out
boldly and say they are “Mormons?” It would
give me pleasure to tell some of those pious
"Mormon" haters that I was not only a "Mor-
mon," but that I was a child, of plural marriage
that my life had been spent in that system,that I
knew nothing of any other kind of life, and
that I did not want to know anything else. I
can declare that to the world with great pride.
And are my children any the worse for my be-
ing born and married in that order?
No. They are just as perfect in mind and body
as any children I ever saw. Does it make me
doubt that principle because it is scoffed at by
the world? It does not. It makes me more
determined than ever. Nothing should make
us doubt the principles of life and salvation,
and if we can only live that order of marriage
the way the Lord desires us to live it, those
who reject and sneer at it will, in the next life,
be far beneath us.
	Then let us be faithful, and discharge our
duties heedless of the sneers of the wicked.
Ever praying for the cause of truth and suc-
cess of the EXPONENT, I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel of Christ.
						AGGIE CHILDS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 151


[Column 1]
MISSONARY LETTER.

DEAR SISTER HELEN:

	It has been some time since I wrote you last.
Considerable of a change has taken place since
then, I was then laboring in Bland, Pulaski
and Giles Counties, but we were counseled to
discard that field of labor on account of such a
bitter feeling arising against us among a cer-
tain class and such indifference among others-
This feeling of enmity was so bitter in a certain
neighborhood that they burned a gentleman's
barn that had the audacity to keep us over
night in this Christian country, calling a mass
meeting, passing resolutions against us, etc.
We did all in our power to spread the Gospel
and to warn them of the calamities that would

[Column 2]
eventually come upon the wicked and ungodly
unless they repented of their sins and gathered
out from Babylon, but our testimonies seemed
to fall unheeded to the ground. We were un-
able to get places to hold meetings, as all
churches, schoolhouses, and even groves, were
closed against us. Therefore it was deemed
advisable by our president to change our field
of labor.
	We are now located in Bath Co. I will en.
deavor to give you a brief description of this
part of the country. I suppose it derived its
name from the mineral springs which are
found here; it joins West Virginia, and is loca-
ted on the very top, you might say, of the
Alleghany mountains, as the principal moun-
tain by this name running north and south di-
vides the two states; also the principal streams
which form the James River run through this
Co,; the most prominent among them being
Cow Pasture and Jackson's river. These
springs, the most renowned of them, are situa-
ted at the foot of what is called the Warm
Spring Mountain. The spring by this name is
located in a lovely cove, and is a beautiful
place to behold; a fine large hotel in the centre
of the grounds is surrounded by cottages for
the accommodation of families, beautiful lawns
laid off upon all sides materially add to its
beauty and attraction as a summer resort.
They can accommodate about four hundred
guests and are always full during the warm
weather. It is claimed these waters are very
beneficial in certain diseases. Opposite this
place stands their Court House, a fine brick
structure. Five miles south of this, following
the turnpike, we come to the renowned Hot
Springs, this is a more beautiful place if possi-
ble than the warm, besides the hot bath there
is the mud and sulphur bath, and others that I
am not acquainted with. The cures accredited
to these waters are almost miraculous, especial-
ly in cases of chronic rheumatism. They can
accommodate four hundred guests at this
place, and have everything for the comfort and
pleasure of their patrons. I understand the
principal owner of this fine property is Ben
Holiday of western fame. Five miles south of
this we find the Healing Springs. I have not
visited these so will not be able to give you a
description of them; but suffice it to say, their
waters are noted for their efficacy in the cure
of skin and blood diseases. There is also the
Bath Alum over the mountains, a fine place,
and has its share of business; people from all
parts of the world visit these places; it is a
sight to see the sick and afflicted that come
here in hope of being benefitted by the use of
these waters.
	We have done considerable preaching in this
neighborhood, and though met by bitter oppo-
sition, with the help of our Heavenly Father,
have been successful in bringing some into the
Church, and good prospects of others following
their example. At first churches and school-
houses were proffered to us, our appointments
were given out and our friends were numerous,
but this was of short duration, preaching in
those buildings is a thing of the past as they
have all been closed against us. A great
many of our so-called friends have turned the
cold shoulder, as you are aware, it is not popu-
lar to be friendly with the "Mormons;" but
there is a number left yet, thank God, whom
those base slanders which are circulated about
us only make more substantial, for they see by
our works we are what we profess. I find those
that are at the head in sowing broadcast
through the land these base falsehoods, are
men who profess to be ministers of the Gospel,
followers of the meek and lowly Jesus; but He
has left us a key whereby we can tell the gen-
uine from the counterfeit. "By their fruits ye
shall know them." Excitement is running
high against us a people, fanned into a fierce
flame, no doubt, by the President's message

[Column 3]
and various other publications. A great many
of Ann Eliza's books are in circulation here
and a great many swallow the contents as a
sweet morsel, and most vindictive are the
threats that are hurled against us on all sides,
but we care little about them; we put our trust
in God, knowing as we do that He is with us,
that we are in His service, and as long we do
our duty, keeping ourselves free and unspotted
from the world, He will preserve us from dan-
ger and death.
	We will continue here this winter teaching
and encouraging those that belong to the
Church and those that are investigating. We
hold our meetings in private houses, preaching
to small congregations. My health is excel-
lent and I take great pleasure in my labors.
Remember me to Uncle Horace, Aunt Mary,
and all the children, and also to inquiring
friends, not forgetting yourself.
		Your affectionate brother,
				NEWEL W. KIMBALL.


EXTRACT OF A LETTER.

CITY OF MEXICO, Oct. 13th, 1883.

	I have seen something of the world since
leaving home, its vanity, hypocrisy and infidel-
ity, and when I compare the condition of the
Saints with that of the people with whom I
come in contact every day, I cannot feel thank-
ful enough that the Lord led my parents to cast
their lot with that people despised of the world,
and that I have had strength thus far to follow
in their wake. I would rather be the most
humble Latter-day Saint with the blessings of
the Priesthood, and the hope which the Gospel
gives, than all the luxuries of life that wealth
and power can give without those blessings.
I can see no joy, no satisfaction, no security
outside of the Gospel the Lord has revealed to
us through the Prophet Joseph. His name is
had in reproach in all the world, even in this
benighted land, but though the world despise
him, and despise me for saying it, I glorify his
name and cherish his memory as one of the
greatest of God's prophets who ever lived upon
the earth, and anticipate with joy the day
when I shall, if I am faithful, see him in his
glory and exaltation far above those who now
malign him.

Oct. 16th, 1883.

	I waited at the post office last night until 12
o'clock, and was rewarded by receiving letters
from Libbie, Moroni and Brother Helaman
Pratt, and this morning from Brother Thatcher.
At 12 o'clock to-day I have a lesson to give,
and in the afternoon three others. I am very
thankful to receive letters, but it always
makes me homesick and lonesome to receive
letters from the folks.
	It seems that Satan has determined to do all
in his power to stay the progress of the work in
this land. Since the beginning of August we
have had much persecution and opposition to
contend with, but thanks to the Lord He has
given us strength also, equal to our day and
need, and I feel confident that He will contin-
ue to do so if we are faithful. Last Sunday
a man, who has tor some time attended our
meetings, applied for baptism, and yesterday
we complied with his wish. Several others
are in a fair way to join the Church soon, and
thus, through the blessings of heaven, we are
making some progress, while Satan howls. My
disposition is such that opposition seems only
to make me feel the more determined, through
the blessing of the Lord, to preach the Gospel
and warn the people, for I believe there are
many who would accept it were it not for their
ignorance of its principles and the instructions
of self-constituted priests and teachers, who
have taken upon themselves the right to teach
doctrines which they do not understand, and


thus they close the gates of heaven, so that
they nor those who would can enter.
	Give us the benefit of your faith and prayers.
Remember me to Sister Staines, Miss Mary
Cook, and any other inquiring friends. I sup-
pose cousin Heber is in Arizona, love to his
family and yourself.
			Your Nephew,
						A. W. IVINS.


[TO MRS. RACHEL R. GRANT.]


152	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ORNAMENTAL WORK.

	We have seen some very handsome speci-
mens of natural flowers from the funeral of the
late Presiding Bishop, E. Hunter, preserved
for the family by Mrs. E. D. Roundy, 1[-]th
Ward. Flowers preserved by her retain their
perfectly natural appearance and color; they
can be arranged in any shape or design re-
quired at about one fourth the usual cost of
flowers embalmed; an ordinary frame is all that
is necessary; they cannot be injured by extreme
heat or cold, and will retain their beauty and
color for fifty years or more.
	Specimens can be seen at her residence, 422
W., First North Street, Salt Lake City.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Mrs. Mary A. Livermore is addressing
large audiences in the West, and as usual win-
ning golden opinions."
	"Miss Helen Taylor is to write the biogra-
phy of John Stuart Mill for the series known
as 'English Philosophers'"
	"Mrs. Ann Greene Phillips, wife of Wendall
Phillips, has declined to act as executrix of her
husband's will on account of ill health, and
has requested the Judge of Probate to appoint
some one in her stead."
	"The Hoar Polygamy Bill" was passed over
in the senate on Tuesday, Feb. 26th, on ac-
count of that Senator being absent with an in-
vestigating committee in New Orleans.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

VIENNA JAQUES.

	Another veterean has departed! one whose former life
was contemporary with the early history of the great
latter-day work.
	Sister Vienna Jacques, the subject of this obituary
article, who departed this life on the 6th of Feb., 1884,
was born in New Rowley, (now Georgetown) in the
State of Massachusetts, on the 10th day of June, 1787.
Almost a centennarian! She led an active and useful
life up to within a few years previous to her demise.
Coming to the city of Boston when she had reached
womanhood, in her self-reliant way, by patient toil and
strict economy, had accumlated considerable means for
those times. Always religiously inclined, she connect-
ed herself with the Bromfield Street M. E. Church in
that city. Feeling a lack In that communion to satisfy
the aspirations of her spiritual desires, she examined the
pretended claims of the most prominent religious sects
extant and failed to find in any of their powerless sys-
tems those gifts and graces which characterized the
primitive Church as recorded in the New Testament
Scriptures. Hearing of a Prophet who had risen up in
the then western wilds, and that he had published to the
world a sacred record containing the fulness of the Gos-
pel, she immediately sent for the book; having procured
the volume and cursorily glancing over its contents, not
comprehending at first its full purport, it was lain
aside. One evening (as she related) on returning home
from an evening meeting, she cogitated in her mind
what special subject should be selected for the theme of
her evening prayer. Suddenly on her way a vision of
the Book of Mormon was presented to her mind, and she
then resolved to ask the Lord to impress her in regard
to its truthfulness. She did so, and the consequence
was that after a careful perusal her mind was illumina-
ted to that degree that she was firmly convinced of its

[Column 2]
divine authenticity, and determined to make the jour-
ney to Kirtland, Ohio, which in those days of traveling
by stage coach and canal was an arduous undertaking;
but strong and concentrated in purpose, braving all
danger and trusting in the Almighty for protection, the
way was marvelously opened up, and she arrived safely
to the journey's end.
	At Kirtland, after receiving sufficient instructions
she was baptized. Made the acquaintance of the Proph-
et and returned to Boston—was the means of bringing
her aged mother into the Church, also her sister and
neices. She finally collected her means and gathered
with the Saints, and by her liberality rendered such pe-
cuniary assistance to the Church in its infancy that it
called forth the following revelation in Sec. 90, par. 28—
31:
	"28. And again, verily, I say unto you, it is my will
that my handmaid, Vienna Jaques, should receive mo-
ey to bear her expenses, and go up to the land of Zion.
	"29. And the residue of the money may be conse-
crated unto me, and she be rewarded in mine own due
time.
	"30. Verily, I say unto you, that it is meet in mine
eyes that she should go up to the land of Zion, and re-
ceive an inheritance from the hand of the Bishop,
	"31. That she may settle down in peace insomuch as
she is faithful, and not be idle in her days from hence-
forth."
	She received according to the above revelation her in-
heritance in Jackson Co.; passed through the early
trials and persecutions, and finally, with the exodus
from Nauvoo, drove her own team across the plains and
settled on the lot which was apportioned to her in the
12th Ward of this city; lived in her wagon the first win-
ter, and erected the house where she ended her days.
She was a person of marked individuality of character,
yet with all her peculiarity of temperament she was
true to her covenants and esteemed the restoration of
the Gospel as a priceless treasure. Her life was replete
with incidents which may be subsequently given in
greater detail.
	Toward the close of her life, owing to intense suffer-
ing consequent upon an accident and extreme old age,
her mental faculties were clouded and her speech quite
incoherent. Let us be charitable to the weakness of
frail mortality, remembering that

"He who knows our frame is just,
	Merciful, and compassionate,
	And full of sweet assurance
	And hope for all, the language is,
That He remembereth we are dust."
							GEORGE HAMLIN.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, 11th Ward, No. 31, Seventh
East Street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN O.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Caseimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IS GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE, AND THROAT,
O[---]TRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1[---].

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]

HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CAPRETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, L[-]CE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES,
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bros.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

