Vol. 12.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1883.			No. 9.


WHEN HEAVEN'S SABLE GARB IS
SPREAD. 

"Night unto night showeth the knowledge of God;
the heavens declare His glory and the firmament show-
eth His handiwork; there is no speech nor language
where their voice is not heard."-DAVID.

When heaven's sable garb is spread,
And all is calm and still,
When, bright stars, glittering overhead,
The firmament do fill,
When full of majesty the moon
Mounts high upon her throne,
Then, oh I love my soul to tune,-
Jehovah's care to own!

I do not know why I should dwell
More on the things of God
When darkness, like a firm-bound spell,
Reigns overearth’s dark sod:
Yet then it seems a solemn, grand,	
Lends presence to the view,
And oh‘ I then do love to stand,
The works of God pursue!

Oft when the day of toil is done,	
And Nature is at rest,
When cares sink with the setting sun,
And all around seems blest,
I stand and gaze in yonder sky,
Where glitter orbs of light,
And feeble lips do fail when I
Attempt to tell the sight. 

Talk of man's works, inventions, schemes, 
And of his mighty power.
They are but baseless, empty dreams—
A fleeting, passing hour—
Compared with the eternal round,
The never-falling scene 
Of God’s grand works, that do surround
And everywhere are seen. 

Lo, take a single grain of .wheat,
Scan wrell its size and form,
Then with thy wisdom try complete
One like it, - uniform.
Or, ere the morning's sun does rise,	
Lo, take the sparkling dew,
And tell me if thou canst devise
A drop to match it true. 

You cannot, though your wisdom great
Seems wondrous here to man:
God’s works no one can imitate,
Though hard they think and plan.
Then as the sable garb of night
Each time the heaven spreads
I'll in Jehovah's works delight
Till life this body sheds.
					JAMES H. WALLIS.
Salt Lake City, Utah, Sept. 25th, 1883.


[Column 1]
AUTUMN, 1883.

HANNAH T. KING.

	Autumn ! calm, sweet Autumn is upon us, it
is a season in which the thinking mind is
drawn into deep reflection. The seasons, as
they roll interminably around, appear to me a
vivid picture of human life. January, with
its immobility, its shut up life, will portray
aptly the advent of the infant, the most help-
less and undemonstrative of all the young ani-
mal creation of God; every faculty is folded
up so closely that we cannot even guess what
sort of character it will ultimately develop;
but time rushes on, and behold Spring is here;
the infant has become a youth, life in all its

[Column 2]
young beauty; the being is all joy and gaiety;
it sees life through a jewelled lens, health and
strength invigorate the limbs, and the pure
blood rushes through the mysteriously organ-
ized system, and the heart and brain dance in
concert. Nature puts on her sweetest apparel
to welcome its presence, and the birds mount
their leafy tribunes and pour forth floods of
music to welcome youth and beauty. The
smile of heaven beams upon the earth, and the
very atmosphere breathes the ambrosial per-
fume of the scene; pleasure invites the youth—
the festive dance, with its sweet, soul-enliving
strains, call them out to revel in its maze;
health fans the cheek and invigorates the step,
and earth seems to them only a theatre for
their happiness and enjoyment. Like dissolv-
ing views, behold, before we are scarcely aware
of it, that scene has past forever to them.
Summer is here with all its rich profusion, na-
ture puts on her most gorgeous apparel, flow-
ers spring beneath her feet, and her head is
adorned with a chaplet of a thousand flowers.
The youth "of whom we spake" have grown to
maturity, they are now in full blown man
and womanhood. They have entered the are-
na of life, some are swallowed up in the vortex
of pleasure, which often is pain and sorrow in
domino, others are plodding on a rough road,
where thorns often pierce their feet and but
few flowers spring up in their pathway, yet
they press on and on, and perseverance and en-
durance make them heroic; and strange as it
may seem, yes, strange even to a paradox,
these are generally the chosen ones—the be
loved whom angels guard and help, and soften
their path by sweet invisible means, that cheers
the heart and makes strong the spirit, till en-
durance becomes a habit of daily wear; and
now and then they come upon an oasis in the
desert of life, on which they throw themselves
in sweet abandon, and experience such rich en-
joyment as the pampered denizens of wealth
can never realize. God is with them, there-
fore all is right. Others are in the mart or mer-
chandise, or the law courts, or the senate,
holding the reins and guiding the car of state
that strengthens and often builds a nation.
Others are poring over the midnight lamp,
making grand discoveries for future progres-
sion in arts and sciences, some bearing high-
sounding names that ring through the world
and make even nations tremble. Others work-
ing silently but unsleepingly, and their work
will yet upheave mountains, they are not
known or recognized by the magnates of the
world, but God's eye is upon them, and His
Spirit sustains and propels them. All, all are
employed in the complex laboratory of God's
wonderful and glorious creation in which
DESIGN is visible throughout the universe.
	Time unveils truth, seasons roll and change,
and all things are culminating to a fore-or-
dained terminus.
	Summer is past, and Autumn, sweet, pensive
Autumn is upon us with the world of wealth
that is her prerogative to shower down for the
children of earth to gather into the different
garners suitable to receive it, grain, fruit and
vegetables, food of every kind, all to be stored
away for the sustenance of the large family
of earth. Summer is past, and many are
saved and many are lost, or appear to be so,
but there is a future that will reveal secrets,
unravel gordian knots, remove mountains, and
make the rough places plain, when the judge of
all the earth shall come forth, holding his bal-

[Column 3]
ance even, and clothed with the robe of di-
vine justice, and by these shall the judges be
judged, and all the great rulers of the earth,
side by side with the obscure and the humble,
even to the mendicant. Wait, ye Latter-day
Saints, wait with patience, but with unsleeping
watchfulness; for verily you have a future!
	The autumn of life has now arrived, the hu-
man mind has attained its acme, is ripe and
concentrated. Those that we have reviewed
as youths and students, teachers and leaders,
have now matured into heads of houses and
families, fathers and mothers judges and coun-
selors, the honored, the beloved, and the re-
vered !
	One more season ! only one more on earth !
	Winter. Nature again prepares to fold her-
self up in the habiliments of death, seeming
death, who approaches and asserts his claim
and gently lays her down in apparent collapse,
but nature is infinite and immortal, she is
instinct with life, hence she calmly falls into
the arms of death, like a weary child on the
breast of its mother; she has a perfect knowl-
edge that he cannot hold her but for a little
season, she knows when her bosom's lord arises
in his warmth and splendor of invigorating
life, and breathes upon her inanimate form
and bids her arise and again put on her beau-
tiful robes of every hue and color, and come
forth to meet him, her lover and her lord, she
knows that death will flee away, and joyfully
she will obey the loved voice that summons
her to a glorious resurrection.
	And the human beings that we saw in the
glory of youth, where are they? Some passed
early off the stage, and the curtain of earthly
life hid them from our eyes, knowing nothing
of the wear and tear and turmoil of a long life;
others lived on to maturity, and they then also
passed away; but some live on to the evening
of life's little day, draining its cup of every
drop—many of them have filled up the mea-
sure of their days in usefulness, they have
been true and faithful to their God, to their as-
sociates, and to themselves ! Not perfect, oh,
no, none can be perfect in this probation, but
they desire it and they love and revere it; when
they possess it, when they obtain the society of
the perfect they will rejoice and feel at home
among such blest ones.
	Winter, yes, the evening of life has its
charms to the good who have led innocent,
peaceful lives, unspotted by the world, filling
the bill of life to the best of their ability, to
such the evening of life has its charms, and is
rich in blessings. If the elasticity of youth
is gone, if the glorious age of maturity and
vigor has passed, did not autumn reveal the
cornucopia that had been earned and now
pours forth its untold wealth for the worker?
To such the winter of life will bring a sweet
retrospect and also a sweet reward and a satis-
faction none can give or take away; to such
the evening of life is the sweet and glorious
sunset of a busy day, and the calm and the
peace, and the rest which is their right to take,
because they have earned it, is sweet and
calm as a summer morning; the smile of hea-
ven beams upon the workers, the laborers for
the good of all they come in contact with—
those that have ever built up and not des-
troyed, on such that beatific smile beams for
ever, they are simply waiting for the voice that
will whisper to them, "Come, ye blessed of my
Father, and enter into the joy of thy Lord."


66	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR TRIP THROUGH TOOELE.

	I feel prompted to do what I have many
times desired to do, but in consequence of
sickness and pressing duties it has seemed
next to impossible to snatch the time to give
proper expression to my thoughts and obser-
vations, dotted down last June while traveling
through Tooele Stake with Sisters Presendia
Kimball, of Salt Lake, President Mary Ann
Hunter, of Grantsville, Sister House, her Sec-
retary, and Sister Hale, President of the Prim-
ary Associations of that Stake, and Sisters
Warburton and Tate, of Tooele City; and I
feel it is due to the bretheren and sisters who
made us so welcome and took every pains to
forward us on our mission. Wherever we
went the same kind spirit prevailed. At the
close of a two days conference at Grantsville,
where we were greatly blessed and also grati-
fied by the presence of the Bishop and many
other bretheren Sister Kimball and myself
were taken to Tooele in company with Sisters
Tate and Warburton; the latter took me to
her home, where I was overwhelmed with kind-
ness by her, and also by the other Sister War-
burton. The moment I entered their door I
felt that I was in the house of my friends,
though previously we had been strangers to
each other.
	Sister Kimball was claimed by others of the
sisters, who had long known and loved her as
a mother in Israel. To me a ride in an easy
carriage is far more pleasant than the cars,
and I should fully appreciate one like this over
so smooth a road in the cool of the evening,
with a bracing breeze and the lovely perfume
from the wild flowers and the new mown hay,
which made it most delightful to me who had
been so long shut up in the city; I enjoyed the
whole trip through Rush Valley, it being all
new country to me.
	(The next morning Sister Kimball, myself
and a number of the sisters went to administer
to one who was very sick. Attended an inter-
esting conference of the Relief Society and
Young Ladies in the afternoon, and a very in-
teresting meeting of  the lady teachers which
was held at sister Warburton's in the evening,
where two or more afflicted ones were anointed
and prayed for.)
	Tuesday morning we started for Pine canyon,
where the same number of meetings were held.
Sister K. and myself rode with Sister Fredrica
Neilson, her husband leaving his work to ac-
company us; also Brother Tate. Sister Hunter
her secretary, and Brother and Sister Hale
met us there and they also accompanied us
through Rush Valley. On our return from
Pine Canyon, this being Sister Neilson's birth-
day, we were invited to stop and take tea with
them. She is one of the humblest of Saints.
They have a beautiful farm and a fine house;
are wealthy, I was told, and also that she came
here when a young girl, and since, quite a for-
tune having fallen on her in Sweden, she had
been back, not long since, to obtain it. And
certainly if she had been in the least dissatis-
fied with "Mormonism" or "Mormon" society,
might have remained there with her former
associates; but she would have sacrificed her
fortune rather than be deprived of the society
of the Saints in Utah, and the privileges and
blessings enjoyed here in Zion. I was told that
she had done a great deal for the Relief So-
ciety in that place. And, by the way, if all
who have grown wealthy here were possessed
of the same humble spirit there would be less
distinction shown between the rich and poor
in our midst.
	After returning that evening we went to ad-
minister to another afflicted sister.
	On the morning of the 20th we started for
St. John's arriving there a little after two where
we were welcomed by Bishop Burridge and
wife. After partaking of a sumptuous meal, 
which they had prepared, we adjourned to the
meeting house to attend R.S. meeting, then
the Primary, and it was really charming to see
and listen to the children's songs, recitations
and dialogues, and not one of them was un-
prepared. One of the least a pretty little
brunette of but five years astonished us; she
spoke a dialogue, and her elocutiou and acting
would have done honor to one of maturer
years. (We attended the Young Ladies Con-
ference in the evening, and next morning, after
the washing and anointing of a sister who was
lying very sick, we started for Vernon, where
we arrived between twelve and one, where of
course dinner was prepared.) Here we met with
the same warm welcome, and it was remarked,
that our meetings had increased in interest
from the first, and here it seemed as though we
had a still greater flow of the Holy Spirit.
Bishop Sharp, with a few other brethren, met
with us in conference, and they appeared high-
ly gratified, especially the Bishop, who ex-
pressed his pleasure in being visited by the sis-
ters, and thankful that he had attended the
conference; felt that he had been benefited by
hearing their teachings, counsels, etc.
	When this conference was dismissed those of
the Primary were on hand, and  were again
delighted with their sweet voices reciting their
fine pieces and singing the songs of Zion
which, by the by, were from Primary books,
published by Sister E.R. Snow Smith. These
were used in every settlement. One remarkable
feature  I noticed wherever we went was
the bright and pretty children. We witnessed
an excellent performance upon a large accor-
deon by a son of their President, Sister Esther
Bennion, aged twelve years. We took tea with
her, and in the mean time were treated to more
music, which was very charming. In the even-
ing a still more interesting meeting was held
at Sister Sharp's, President of the R.S. of
Vernon. I will here mention that Sister Kimball
and I were  guests, and the rest of our com-
pany put up at the Bishop's, who is the nephew
of Sister Sharp. (Though we had attended
three meetings each day and administered to
the sick and were up late every night, still we
were sustained, and in blessing we were blessed.
If we had been ministering angels I think
there could not have been more love and ap-
preciation manifested. Sister Sharp, who had
lately lost a daughter, had met with an accident,
and was in feeble health. She and a young
sister, her relative, desired to be washed and
anointed, which was done the morning before
we left; a daughter  of Sister Sharp's was also
blessed by Sister Kimball, whose mission seems
to be to bless and comfort the sick and afflicted.)
On our return we filled another appointment
at Clover Creek, where we were entertained
by Brother and Sister Stookey, and while par-
taking of the repast we were charmed by some
fine music, made by their little son, who played
very nicely upon the violin. This being the
sixth day we had traveled and held meetings
the sisters felt obliged to return home; there-
fore, but one meeting was held in this place,
commencing at two o'clock and lasting till half
past four, in which time a Relief Society was or-
ganized. Sister Jemima Stookey being appoint-
ed President, America Johnson, First Counsel-
or, Mary Davis Second; also a Secretary and
two Assistant Secretaries were appointed.
Sister Kimball spoke a short time, giving much
good counsel, and also Sister Hunter and two
or three others of the sisters, and one or two
brethren spoke. We had some very excellent
and encouraging remarks from the Bishop, Bro.
de St- Joer, who is an eloquent speaker as well
as one of the most humble of Saints.
	We left them feeling well stopped at Bp.
Burridge's in St. John's, as their son's wife de-
sired to be washed and anointed. When this
was done tea was ready, which we parteok of
and left at dusk, arriving in Tooele at ten
o'clock, where we first learned the shocking
news of the burning of the Council House, etc.,
which gave us very sad feelings, and we sat up
late talking of it and other events which are
casting their shadows before.
	(In the morning we were taken to administer
to  aged sister who who was very feeble; from
there to Bp. Atkins', where a daughter of his
was washed and anointed.) In the meantime a
sumptuous meal was prepared, which we had
barely time to partake of, the Bp. and his
carriage being in waiting to take Sister Presen-
dia Kimball and myself to the depot. It would
be useless to undertake to mention the names
of all those whom I formed so pleasant an ac-
quaintance with in  Grantsville, Tooele and
the other settlements in that Stake; but I will
sum them up as amoug the most choice jewels
of the earth; and though they may glitter less
brightly before the vain eyes of the world,
they are priceless, because they have been tried
in the furnace and proven, and they have the
ring of the true metal.
	In reading  the thousand and one gross
and malicious falsehoods, manufactured and
copied from one newspaper to another, for
the sole purpose of embittering the outside
world against this people, who founded Utah
and have beautified and made it desirable by
their united labor through years of toil and
privation, which could never be written, except
it be in the record that is kept above. I, who
know them to be false, having shared in the
privations, sorrows and sufferings of this peo-
ple from the very beginning, and know the
purity of their motives, cannot sit and hold my
peace. Why will they not see the truth, and
that those who mispresent us are peering
through the green eyes of that monster, which
had blinded them to every worthy deed, until
all our virtues are distorted and made to ap-
pear in the most hideous forms, and in their
o’er righteous zeal have sent commissioners to
punish us without trial, regardless of constitu-
tion and laws.
	This people have gathered here that they
might be able to enjoy their religion, and help
to build up Zion in fulfilment of prophecy,
which is considered a very great privilege, and
a right which they could not be persuaded to
relinquish; and thousands of the poor are
anxiously praying for the day to come when
they can gather up to Zion to dwell with God's
people, and none who are possessed of one
spark of truth of the spirit of Christ could
speak otherwise than in praise of a people who
have exhibited such proofs of benevolence and
Christian philanthropy towards mankind.
		More anon, from yours etc.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	Sept. 10th, 1883.


MISCELLANEOUS.

A picture of a ruined castle on the Rhine,
painted by a blind girl, is on exhibition in
Paris, and attracts a good deal of attention.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore has collected in a
volume her Lectures on Women, and it will
soon he published by Lee & Shepard, under
the title of "What Shall we do with our
Daughters?—Superfluous Women, and other
Lectures."
	The man was dust, refined, but the woman
was dust double-refined,—one remove farther
from the earth. The woman was made of a rib
out of the side of Adam,—not made out of his
head to top him, nor out of his feet to be tram-
pled upon by him, but out of his side to be
equal with him, under his arm to be protected,
and near his heart to be beloved.—Matthew
Henry.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LINES OF APPRECIATION.

TO MY KIND AND ESTEEMED FRIEND, SISTER
HANNAH T. KING.

Were I inspired a moment by the Muse,
That moment with an eager grasp I'd use
To writs in comely rhyming words to thee
My gratitude for kindness shown to me.
Thou didst not give me shelter, food, or drink,
Nor gold or silver with their magic chink,
Nor empty titles on me didst bestow—
As queens and monarchs oft their favors show—
But with a heart to kindness ever keen
A nobler guerdon for me thou didst glean,
A lovely group of ever living flowers,
Fresh and bedew'd with cooling summer showers.

"Appreciation"—sweetest flower of all—
	Surrounded by a group of "kindred thoughts,"
While "wishes kind" and "blessings pure" did fall
	In graceful wreaths around, with beauty fraught.
As earthly flowers when deftly grouped with care
	Would to the eye a magic charm impart,
So pleasing (only more) this present rare,
	Enchanted every chord within my heart
And as the giver—if he be beloved
	Lends more enchantment to the treasure gained—
So now with me, my heart was sooner moved
	That thou to praise my humble efforts deigned,
Thou whom I know enjoy the purest thoughts,
	Communion with the muses all divine,
Nay, inspiration's self thy mind hath taught,
	And thou could'st still enjoy that effort mind;
And then to know (from feelings there expressed)
	That thou didst realize the task of love
Which I have taken at my own behest,
	At which untiring still I hope to prove.
"A work of love," indeed, 'tis doubly so.
	For love I work, with love I am repaid,
And though I love the work itself, I know
	This love is born of loving my sweet aids.
The children (Heaven ever bless them all)
	Give their sweet smiles of love so free from guile,
While these are mind I'm happy in my thrall,
	However tiring be my task the while.
O, could I lead them onward, upward still
	To heights where masters tune the sacred song,
To revel in those mighty strains until
	To them the mastery of sound belong.

Alas! poor me! such hopes must soon decay;
	Such glorious aims I know can ne'er be won,
Too many obstacles bestrew my way,
	The grave will hold me, ere the half be done.
The strength and mind I fain would all devote
	To this loved task so dear unto my heart
Are daily wasted both by act and thought
	To clear a way for progress in my art.
And thus 'twill be while doing all I can
	I'll e're have this sad thought to think upon—
As o'er my labors past at length I scan—
	Had I the chance how much I might have done!
But as the acts of life pass one by one,
	And joys and sorrows past I shall review,
One spot of sunshine (and outshone by none)
	Shall be this act of kindness done by you.
And (if God wills it) may I yet assist
	To make the youth of Zion skilled in song,
And may you yet in rapture sit and list
	To our sweet songsters when ten thousand strong.

The Muse (offended at my boldness) would not come,
	And left my heart to tell as best it could
Whate'er it felt, so if I stumbling roam
'Mong flighty thoughts, forgive! I'm not at home
	In poet-land, O could I be I would.

	EVAN STEPHENS.
Salt Lake City, August 30th, 1833.


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.
PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.
[Continued.]
	“My health was very delicate, so much so,
that during the winter of 1850 I was under
the necessity of keeping a girl to wait upon
me. Sophia Curtis lived with me and took
care of me, she was so good and kind. My
husband thought I might die at any moment,
and told his family he did not know when I
might be taken away. In fact I feel

[Column 2]
assured it was only through mighty faith that I
was healed. During my severe illness the
Lord showed me many marvelous things and
I sang praises to Him on my bed of affliction,
as did the Psalmist of old. I cried and com-
posed as I sang. I told my feelings to Presi-
dent Kimball, and also what I saw and heard.
The Lord has been very good to me in the 
midst of deep trials, and I thank Him. he
has hitherto upheld and sustained me in the
hour of deep affliction. He has manifested
tenderness and mercy and given me strength
equal to the day.”
	“In the Spring the work of giving endow-
ments commenced and President Young called
Sister E. A. Whitney and myself to officiate
in the ordinances of the House of the Lord.
The position seemed as natural to me, as if I
had always been accustomed to it. We both
enjoyed the labor very much for we loved the
work and the Lord blest us with His Spirit.
We seemed to live above everything earthly or
trivial while engaged in those spiritual duties,
and we had many comforting dreams as well
as other manifestations that the Lord approved
of our ministrations. O, it is heavenly to be
thus employed; angels seemed to watch over
us, for had we not made every sacrifice will-
ingly that we might serve our Father in hea-
ven and keep His holy commandments? Sis-
ter Whitney was abundantly blest with gifts
and graces in spiritual things, and I loved her
as my mother, a mother in Israel to all the
daughters in Zion, and especially those who
had entered into the new and everlasting cov-
enant. One night she dreamed that we went
to the Council House where we officiated and
that I went into the large room and apparent-
ly danced in space, for I did not touch the
lloor, but kept above it. She said I was per-
fectly transparent, and there was not a spot or
blemish of any sort upon my body. Sister
Whitney stood against the door herself, as she
thought, so that no one should interrupt me
until I had concluded my dance. This was a
good testimony to me and also to her that I
was fit to minister in the holy ordinances. It
is not good to be too visionary, or place too
much confidence in dreams, but there are some
dreams that are given for the comfort and en-
couragement of the dreamer that strengthen
our faith and help us to bear the trials of life
and overcome the various obstacles that are
continually thrown in the way of the Saints.
In looking back over those days, I realize how
the Lord marked out my way and the bless-
ings that He poured out upon me, and I feel to
thank Him that He preserved me in many
strait and narrow places, and that my feet nev-
er slipped, though the way was sometimes dan-
gerous, for trials were plentiful in those days
and one needed to be on the alert, lest he be
taken unawares and fall through murmuring
or in an unguarded moment. My health kept
on improving every day, my spirit was cheered
and buoyed up and I seemed to take a new
lease of life.
	“About this time Dr. Willard Richards or-
ganized “the board of health,” and I was one
of the first to join and attend the lectures.
This was exceedingly interesting and opened
up a new field of labor and channel of im-
provement to the sisters. I shall always look
upon it as one of the greatest blessings to the
women of this people. Dr. Richards took the
utmost pains to instruct us and teach us con-
cerning the origin of life and the wonderful
organism of the human body.”


EXTRACT FROM A LETTER.
MRS. B. M. JOHNSON TO HER SISTER.
We are now not more than one and a half
miles from Tempe, but it seems like another
conntry. One evening, since we came over
here, I climbed up an eminence, not a high
one either, and had my first view of the coun-
try; and, truly, I never saw a lovlier sight;
in all directions was a country covered with
green, for although no grass grows, unless
planted, bright shrubs and brush grow thick
everywhere, with the native trees, mesquet,
pala verda, desert willow (a lovely thing
covered with delicate flowers), and several
other varieties. The course of the river is
marked by larger trees, cottonwood, and black
willow. Looking south the the scene is espec-
ially beautiful; the farms, ranches and the
trees of the Gila, some fifteen miles away, and
far away, so far that it is veiled in blue mist,
one large mountain, and farther south-east a
lower chain, but evidently belonging to the
same range. You know we got an idea that
there were no mountains here. Well, you
can't go amiss for them, low and high,
in ranges and just tumbled about promiscuous
like. They say the view from the top of Hay-
den's Peak is magnificient, as you can see
both sides of the valley; I could not help wish-
ing you were with us. One Sunday evening,
as we were coming over from Tempe, we stop-
ped in the middle of the river to let the horses
drink, and looking down the river was a most
beautiful scene. I could not describe it, but I
never saw a lovelier. You speak of ruins.
Yes, the country is full of them, but I have
not seen any of them yet, except an old canal
course, although we have some quite near us;
not more than a mile and a half are the ruins
of quite a large town, one building still stands
as high as our tent. East, about a mile, are
the ruins of an old fort; neither Indians nor
Mexicans know anything about their origin.
The most imposing ruins are the Casa Grande,
about thirty miles from Maricopa, a building
covering near five acres; room after room open-
ing one into another, with a large court-yard
in the contres walls still standing from ten to
eighteen feet. The building is made of con-
crete, and the Indians say that three hundred
years ago it was nearly perfect, being another
story high; they say there is still some very
fine plastering and painting to be seen on the
walls; this is of course from hearsay, but from
those who have been there. Not far from
Phoenix are said to be whole rows of houses
cut away up in the solid rock, with no visible
mode of entrance, and there is a story going of
late of a cave being found with a door, which,
when forced open, unlocked such a stench
that they were glad to close it again without
further exploration; this I do not give only as
a rumor. About thirty miles east from Mesa
are the Superstition Mountains, that no Indian
will set his foot upon; they say that long ago
three hundred Indians went up into them and
were never seen or heard from any more; that
when others went in search of them they found
the mountains covered with bones and strange
writings upon the rocks, that when they ap-
proached what appeared to be piles of rocks,
they would melt away, and the place would be
filled with little men. People who have been
there say the mountains are full of caves and
are gloomy and desolate enough to almost war-
rant belief in the superstition; and the strange
characters are actually there on the rocks.  I
find I have made a mistake about the location
of those rock houses; the rumored cave is twen-
ty-five miles from Phoenix, the houses hewn in
the face of the rock are on Eagle River, at the
head waters of the Gila; the large plateau of
level land above the canyon where they are
found  literally covered with ruins. I send
you some Arizona tooth-picks, specimens of
the protection that nature furnishes the giant
cactus that are thick around here, from the
baby just poking its burly head out of the 
ground, to the hardened veteran with his full
complement of forks and crotches.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,   Editor.

Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
#1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising'
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z.C.M.
I., East Temple Street. Business ours from 10 a.m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communicatoins to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 1, 1883.


ZION IS GROWING.
Conference is just at hand, and the city is al-
ready teeming with visitors and people hurry-
ing to get their trading and business of various
kinds done before the 6th of October. No doubt
it will be one of the busiest, as well as one of
the most pleasant conference gatherings that we
have had. The city is growing in beauty and
importance, and the Church itself, notwith-
standing all the powers arrayed against it, is
steadily, yes, rapidly advancing in power and
influence; in fact Zion is becoming established
in the tops of the mountains, and people from
all nations are coming to see and to hear and to
learn of that which they have heard every-
where spoken evil of.
Here in the midst of the Saints are those most
opposed, and most bitter against the progress
and advancement of the work, God has sought to
accomplish in this day and time. Every inven-
tion Satan is capable of manufacturing seems to
be used to destroy the Church, and bring the
Saints into disrepute. No slander is too infam-
ous, no falsehood too malicious to be published
and circulated against this people. And yet
they pass by it almost invariably in silence, for
to attempt to contradict these wicked misrepre-
sentations would occupy mere time than any of
this bnsy people can afford. Thore is too much
labor on hand to assist in rolling forth the King-
dom, to take any precious time to refute false
statements, unless it was positively necessary to
do so. The Mormons will live and prosper, and
no power on earth can hinder the Lord’s work
that He has set His hand to do. It is this im-
plicit faith and trust in divine power that unites
this people and gives them that confidence in
Jehovah’s protection that no amount of persecu-
tion, drivings or death itself can destroy.


WOMAN'S WORK.
	On a Friday afternoon, September 21st, we left
the city for Nephi, accompanied by Mrs H. M.
Whitney to attend the Woman's Conference of
the Juab Stake.
	On Saturday morning, Sept. 22nd, at 10 a.m.
conference opened in the meeting house, which
was beautifully decorated with pictures, ever-
greens, etc. President Paxman and his Counselor,
Joel Grover, Bishop Udall and many other breth-
ren were present, Mrs, Elizabeth Kendall pre-
siding. The minutes and reports were good, and
the speaking by the several presidents was
practical and appropriate, the singing heavenly.
In the afternoon, after some further speaking
from the sisters, Pres. Paxman made some ex-
planatory remarks upon the need of a complete
organization, rendered necessary by the demise
of Mrs. Amelia Goldsbrough, who had presided
over the Relief Society of the Stake. Pres. Pax-
man then nominated Mrs. Mary Pitchforth for
President, to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of the late lamented Mrs. Goldsbrough.
The nomination was sustained by the unani-
mous vote of the conference. The other officers
nominated were as follows: Counselors to the
President, Mrs. Amy L. Bigler and Mrs. Nico-
lena Brown; Secretary, Mrs. Mary Hoyl; Treas-
urer, Mrs. Thirza Maria Vickors. These received
the unanimous vote of the congregation. The
Relief Society of Nephi was also reorganized,
with Mrs. Maranda Bryan, President; Mrs. R.
K. Udall and Mrs. Ann Midgeley, Counselors;
Mrs. M. E. Teasdale, Secretary; Mrs. Hannah
Grover, Assistant Secretary; Mrs. Charlote
Evans, Treasurer; Mrs. Julia Bryan, Assistant
Treasurer A vote of thanks was tendered to
Sisters Elizabeth Kendall and Jane Picton,
Counselors to the late President, for their faith-
ful, diligent and efficient labors in the Stake
among the Society.
	Sunday morning the Primary Conference was
held in the meeting house. Hundreds of beau-
tiful, bright, intelligent children were assembled,
and many of the parents and others, Mrs. Han-
nah Grover presiding. The exercises were ex-
cellent and very well rendered; a manuscript
paper, called "The Busy Bee," was read by one
of the girls, which was well worthy of praise.
The articles were really very good for little folks.
Some very sweet singing from the children add-
ed much to the enjoyment of the occasion.
	THE afternoon was devoted to the Y. L. M. I.
A. They, too, had a paper read, it is entitled
“The Young Ladies Journal," and it contained
excellent advice and instruction to the youth of
Zion. There were several very creditable spirit-
ual exercise, and the tenor of all tended towards
genuine improvement. In the evening there
was a conjoint session of the  Y. L's. and Y. M's.
Associations, and the meeting was intensely in-
teresting. One particular feature of it was a
Bible exercise of the history of St. Paul, and
incidents of the lives of the apostles of Jesus,
which was given by Mrs. M. E. Teasdale in
such a pleasing and graphic manner as to be
most instructive as well as enjoyable.
	A Primary Fair was open during the time of
the conference, and there were on exhibition
many very handsome and creditable articles
made by the little boys and girls; also vegetables
of the best quality in the market raised by the
little boys. There was almost every variety of
needle work, from the plainest, neatly executed,
to the finest embroidery and elaborate fancy
work. Quilts and crochet work in great abun-
dance. Artificial flowers, wool, wax and hair;
fancy baskets, and many varieties of useful and
ornamental articles too numerous to mention.
	The Relief Society of Nephi, which has for
some years past been under the supervision of
Mrs. Mary Pitchforth, President, is indeed in a
thriving condition. The sisters own a lot con-
sisting of an acre of land in the suburbs of the
city, and have taken great pains to set out mul-
berry trees upon it; many of them, however,
have been winter-killed again and again, but
nothing seems to discourage these zealous labor-
ers in Zion's cause. They have also peach and
apricot trees bearing fruit there. A comfortable
log house is used for an old lady dependant for
support, and this year the Society has built two
very commodious rooms for the needy poor; the
house is of adobies and well finished, large glass
in the windows and everything quite modern.
The dimentions of the house are 30x16 feet, and
and it is well finished off even to the painting.
It shows what energy and perseverance can ac-
complish when the heart is in the work; for all
this has not been done without practical labor
and executive ability. The Relief Society own
a very good hall of their own, which they built
some time ago, and it has a good sized store-
room at the back with a cook stove in it, where
the donations are received on the day of the
meeting, and up stairs over this room is another,
with a very large cupboard, a sort of wardrobe,
where quilts, blankets, and such necessary com-
forts are kept until distributed, and in fact they
seem to have a good stock on hand; there is also
a cellar below for vegetables and wood. The sis-
ters own, in addition to this, a granary for the
wheat they are storing for a day of need. Cer-
tainly the example of these noble women is
worthy of imitation, and we know there are
many others engaged in similar laudable work.
and yet the world look upon the women of Zion
as degraded and drown trodden.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE have received from the publishers the
Directory of Ogden City and Weber County
a book of 214 pages. It is a very credit-
able work and must certainly be of great
advantage, not only to the city and county,
but to all individuals engaged in business
of any kind; to visitors and business men
who come from a distance. It seems to be as
perfect in detail as it is possible to get a book of
this kind, giving everything that the most curi-
ous or inquisitive need to know of the place and
the people.
	It is certainly a commendable little enterprise,
and the publishers deserve great praise for the
correct and careful manner in which it is com-
piled and edited.
	MRS. HELEN JACKSON, of Colorado Springs,
paid a brief visit to our city recently, accom-
panied by Mrs J. E. Mylne, of London, who is
spending a few months in America. Both are
ladies of culture and are much interested in our
principles and institutions. Mrs. Jackson has
visited Salt Lake before, and found so much of
interest here that she felt she must come again.
No doubt many of our readers know the cele-
brated H. H., who has written regularly many
years for “The Independent.” She is also a con-
tributor to The Century Magazine, and has
written several books, among which are "The
Century of Dishonor," "Vorses," "Bits of Travel
in Foreign Lands," "Travels at Home," etc.
Mrs. Jackson has carefully investigated the In-
dian question and rendered good service to the-
governement by making some astounding dis-
coveries of the treatment of the Indians by
those sent among them, etc. Her book, "The
Century of Dishonor," is upon this subject, and
well deserves patronage. She is a woman of
brilliant talent and greatly gifted in conversa-
tion.
	The Conference of Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
Saturday, Sept. 22nd, commencing at 2 p.m.,
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding. After the ex-
ercises of singing and prayer, reports were given
by the presidents from some of the wards, and
then Mrs. Freeze addressed the meeting on sub
jects of vital importance to the young. Miss
Mattiie Horne spoke upon obedience and faith,
thought our religion comprehended everything,
urged advancement in intelligence, alluded to
the power and influence of evil spirits, also
spoke of the great value of time.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt made some good remarks upon
the importance of understanding the first prin-
ciples of the Gospel, said we must make our-
selves fit temples for the indwelling of the
Spirit of God, spoke upon purity and the pro-
tection of virtue, urged mothers to watch over
their children, and felt greatly impressed to ad-
dress young girls on such subjects as pertain to
purity of life and character. Spoke upon the


laws of life, and how necessary it was for our
young ladies to understand their physical organ-
ization and not transgress any of the laws of na-
ture; after all it is not only knowing the right
but doing it.
	Pres. Freeze made some closing remarks and
the conference was adjourned for three months.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


VISIT TO SANPETE.
	I left Salt Lake City Friday morning, Sept.
7, at Provo was joined by Sister Zina D. H.
Young. Arrived at Nephi we were met by
Pres. Paxman, took dinner at Sister Pitchforth's.
After dinner took the narrow gauge road to
Wales. Br. Franzten was there to meet us, and
we drove over to Spring City, arriving there
about 5 p m. The Sanpete Ladies Conference
was held at Mt. Pleasant, on Saturday at 10
o'clock a.m. and 2 p.m. From there we drove
over to Fairview and held meeting at 7 p.m.
	Sunday morning met with the Sunday School
at Mt. Pleasant, and also the Primary Associa.
tions. Held meeting in the evening at Spring
City at 7 o'clock.
	Monday we went to Ephraim, met with the
Relief Society at 2 p.m., the Primary Associa-
tions at 5 p.m. The children of the two Asso-
ciations at that place have gleaned this season
30 bushels of wheat.
	Tuesday we rode over to Manti, saw the beau-
tiful Temple and went all through it. Held
meeting there with the sisters. Then drove to
Mayfield, and held meeting at 7 p.m.
	Wednesday went to Gunnison, met with the
sisters at 10 o'clock, and from there went on to
Fayette and held meeting in the evening.
	Thursday morning drove over to Juab, 22
miles, and took the train for home. At Provo
Sister Zina stopped to visit for a few days, and I
returned to Salt Lake. Pres. Peterson traveled
with us the entire trip through the Stake. The
visit to Sanpete was one of the best and most
enjoyable of any I have ever taken. Every-
where the good spirit seemed to be poured out
in rich abundance, and both brethren and sis-
ters, as well as the children seemed more than
glad to welcome us to their midst. The sisters
in that locality are doing well and enjoying
their labors, and are ready for any good work or
laudable enterprise to help in the progress of the
Kingdom of God upon the earth. We shall re-
member with much pleasure our sojourn among
them, though our time was very limited. They
are a good, industrious and upright people.
May the Lord bless them in all their efforts is
my prayer.M. ISABELLA HORNE.


PRIMARY FAIR.
	THE Primary Associations of Salt Lake Coun-
ty held a very pleasing little Fair in President
Young's School House, 18th, Ward, beginning
Wednesday, September 20th. In all respects it
was a delightful showing of the handiwork of
the children. Each ward of the County had its
own stand, and each one held articles of peculiar
interest. To enumerate them, or classify them
would be utterly impossible; but the display testi-
fied the deftness of the little hands, and showed
how industrious all must have been to accom-
plish so much. There were displayed all kinds
of delicate work, from the most beautiful em-
broidery and painting down to the ordinary
darning, patching and cooking.
	One piece of work, deserving special mention,
was the piecing of blocks enough for a large
quilt; done by a little girl only four years old, of
the 3rd Ward Primary. The work was so beau-
tifully executed that the prize of a rocking chair,
given by Mr. Glass, was awarded to the tiny


seamstress. It was quite marvellous what the
little ones could do in the way of bread and
cake making. A very nice quilt, shown on this
occasion, was made and donated to the Temple
by the Draper Association.
	Though the girls had a greater display, the
boys came in for a large share of the praise.
There were some splendid samples of their
gardening, and one little fellow exhibited a very
fine bridle he had made. Among the patchwork
exhibited by the 8th Ward were some blocks
made by some very small boys, and they were
as nicely sewn as those the girls did. It is neces-
sary for the boys to learn to sew, and those little
fellows may well be proud of their first attempt.
	A pretty piece of music was composed by a
little girl of the 13th Ward, and on Saturday
afternoon she delighted the visitors by playing it
for them. This, with many other exhibits,
showed what great talent and genius there is
among the children. We hope the little ones
will continue in their good work.
	One thing deserving special notice was a calen-
dar of notable events in Church History. 33
pages of legal cap paper closely written, by a lit-
tle girl in the 15th Ward, aged 10 years. It
gives evidence of unusual ability and decided
tendency to spiritual influences, remarkable in
one so young.
	Many nice prizes were given by different
ladies and gentleman of the city. Such ones as
to give encouragement to the children.
							A. W. C.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We had our conference, as you are aware, the
second and third of August. We had a good
time together, the Spirit of the Lord was with
us, and many good instructions were given from
the sisters as well as from the brethren who
spoke. We were very much disappointed in not
having you come to visit us; in particular the
Primary children; their little hearts rejoiced
when we told them that you were coming to
speak to them, and after that they had heard
that the railroad was washed away, yet when
we went to our Primary meeting Saturday after-
noon, my little boy asked me if the sisters from
the city would not be there to speak to them.
I feel in my heart to ask God to bless the Prim-
ary children; they are but few here in Castle
Dale, but they are bright and intelligent children,
and they have improved greatly in the short
time since they were organized. It seems the
time passes along very swift, and every moment
ought to be precious to us; a moment is but a
small fraction of time, yet moments make up
the threescore years and ten allotted to mortal
existence, and few reach that period; they drop
all the way along, from early time down to old
age; though to some there are a few more years
allotted, but when the last day comes, whether
early or late, it is useless to plead for more time
to close up unfinished business; therefore let us
use the time and the talents the Lord has given
unto us to help to build up His Kingdom; and
listen to the small voice of the angel of time,
that follows us from our early days and whispers,
prepare! Let us live our religion and honor the
name of Latter-day Saint.
	May God bless all my sisters who work for the
advancement of the Kingdom of God. I wish
success to your paper, that it may be circulated
among the Saints to cheer and bless the sisters
of Zion.			CAROLINE A. LARSON.
	Castle Dale, Aug. 12, 1883.


There is none so homely .but loves a looking
glass.--South.


MARRIAGE.
	Was there ever a young lady who did not
think more or less about marrying? And was
there ever one who did not picture in her own
mind at any rate what kind of a man the
"lucky one" should be? Girls talk in a joke
about their "fellows," and have a great deal of
sport about who they are going to marry and
when the event will transpire, how they will
manage when they are married, etc. In listening
to them I am sometimes led to wonder if they
ever give the subject serious reflection, if they
ever think of the responsibilities and duties
that they take upon themselves when they
marry, for marrying is only the foundation,
and the duties of a wife and mother are many
and important, needing the exercise of patience
and wisdom. To choose a husband is no tri-
fling matter, when so much depends upon that
choice; for our whole life will be influenced
and our future happiness or misery depends
upon our choice. We all desire happiness, yet
how careless and indifferent we are in using
the very means that will secure this blessing to
us. Girls should never marry contrary to the
wish of their parents, if they do they will re-
pent it all the days of their lives. "Honor
thy father and thy mother, that thy days may
be long in the land." We are promised long
life and eternal life and happiness in the world
to come, through obedience to parents and
keeping the law of God, then should we think
of disobeying them in this the most important
event in our lives? How could we expect or
ask God for His blessing upon us when we dis-
regard His commands and set at nought the
counsels of loving parents, whose greatest de-
sire is to see us blessed and happy?
	Girls should never think of marrying outside
of this Church, unless they wish to throw them
selves away and forfeit all claims to the blessings
of the Gospel. Girls, never allow the attentions
of one who is not of our faith, no matter how
polite or gentlemanly he may be, nor how
handsome he is, or how rich he appears to be.
Be not deceived. Think not of his good looks
or his wealth. Be not enticed and flattered by
his attentions; do not permit them, lest you let
your affections overbalance your calm judg-
ment, in the thought that you can win him to
our side, to think as we do and receive our
principles. Do not delude yourself with any
such idea, if he will not do right and embrace
the Gospel because he loves its principles, he
will never embrace it for you, or if he does,
after he has obtained you he would "back
down" and apostatize because he was not gen-
uine, he was a fraud, a deceiver, and very like-
ly he would not only leave the Church, but
would abandon you who trusted him, leave
you forsaken and betrayed, to take care of
yourself as best you could; or if you remained
with him, if he did not desert you, you
would be cut off from the blessing of the Gos-
pel, because you had joined yourself with an
unbeliever, you would be one with him, for are
not man and wife one? Not only would you
suffer yourself, but your children after you,
and what right have you to deprive them of a
good father and the right to the blessings of
the Priesthood? We are told that a child's
first right is a good mother, and I think a
good father is just as necessary. It is direct
opposition to the commands of God to unite
with unbelievers. Has He not told us to keep
ourselves clean and unspotted from the world,
and not to partake of its influence, lest we
share in its plagues, and it is hard enough to
live as saints should do when we are all of one
faith, but doubly hard to struggle and fight
against an opposite spirit.
	Women naturally want some one to look
up to, to lead out, set the example and
then she can follow. If the head of
the house, the husband, sets a good example


all is well, if he does not, what then? Then,
again, among our own people, girls should be
careful and not give themselves away too
cheaply, but be sure to know that you are re-
ceiving as good as you give. "A virtuous
woman's value is far above rubies,—she is
priceless." If you are virtuous and pure, why
not require him, to whom you trust your hap-
piness to be the same? He should not only be
virtuous, but should be a Latter-day Saint in
the strictest sense of the term, in order to be
worthy the affections of a virtuous, loving girl.
If she is priceless she should not give herself
away to one unworthy of her. A good wife is
a precious gift from God, so also is a good
husband, and it is to Him that we should go
to seek wisdom to guide us in this matter, as
well as in other things, that we may not be led
astray, Ask our Heavenly Father to give us
a good husband, one who will love Him and
keep His commandments, and if we do our
duties well He will grant our petition and give
us "one that we can tie to," one of His noble
servants that we can safely trust without fear
of being deceived, and I think it would be bet-
ter to be one of  ten wives in the family of
such a man than to be the only one of a base
deceiver, who loves not purity or chastity, but
tries to destroy God's innocent daughters. Set
your mark high. Be not satisfied with a hus-
band of low, mean habits, who drinks, swears,
chews, uses profane language, or does anything
offensive to refined, modest and delicate feel-
ings or that comes in contact with the princi-
ples of our religion. Then if you are both L.
D. Saints, of course you will be married prop-
erly, in the House of the Lord, and begin life
together right, laying the foundation in right-
eousness, then you can go on step by step, en-
joying the blessing and favor of God.
					M. E. TEASDALE.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


[-]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
		    REPORTS.
	WILSON WARD, WEBER STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Primary Association of Wilson Ward
at present is in a flourishing condition.  We
held a Conference June 1st, 1883, President
Alice E. Stephens presiding. There were
present on the stand, a number of the sisters,
the Bishop and also the Sunday School Super-
intendent. A short time was spent in singing
and reciting, the President then called upon
Bishop B. H. Bingham to make a few remarks,
to which he responded, expressing himself as
being well pleased and entertained with the
exercises, also thought the Primary Associa-
tion a great benefit to the young.
	He was followed by Superintendent S. H.
Nielson who spoke very encouragingly to the
children.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing and benediction.
					GENEVA MARTIN,
							Secretary.

ADAIRVILLE, SHOW LOW, APACHE CO., ARIZONA.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society was organized May 19th,
1883, by Elder William Ellsworth, Sister
Harriet Whipple was chosen President; and
Sister Mary Adair as first Counselor; Mary
Ann Mc. Neil, Secretary; Belle Zara Whetten,
Treasurer. Meeting adjourned until the next
day, as Sister Whipple wished time to consider
as to her second Counselor, Sister Mary Han-
sen was then chosen.
	We have held seven meetings and one sew-
ing meeting. Number of members enrolled,
12. We are very few here, but as a rule feel
alive to our duties.
	Wishing the faith and prayers of our co-
workers in the Gospel, we remain, yours in the
true work,			HARRIET WHIPPLE,
								President,
					MARY. A. MCNEIL,
								Secretary.
			OGDEN CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Ladies' Relief Society of Weber Stake
of Zion held their Quarterly Conference on
Friday, September 7th, in the Ogden Taberna-
cle. On the stand were President Lewis W.
Shurtliff, Mayor D. H. Peery, C. Middleton,
and other brethren, Counselors Hattie C.
Brown and Sarah J. Herrick, Secretary Mon-
ta Harris, Treasurer Melissa Hall and presi-
dents from the various branch societies
throughout the county. The meeting was con-
ducted in the absence of President J. S. Rich-
ards by Counselor Hattie C. Brown. Com-
menced at ten a.m. with the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, then followed the reading
of minutes and reports. Sister Hattie C.
Brown then addressed the congregation; ex-
pressed her pleasure at seeing so many of the
sisters and also the brethren out, it being a
busy season of the year; she regretted very
much that our beloved President was not per-
mitted to meet with us through the severe ill-
ness of one of her sons; she prayed the Lord to
comfort and bless Sister  Brown felt that
we would have a good time and that the Lord
would pour out His spirit upon us and we
would gain light, wisdom and intelligence
through it.
	Counselor Sarah J. Herrick said, she came
to the meeting to worship the Lord; hoped to
have His spirit ever dwelling in her heart,
when we have that we are indeed happy. She
realized we received great blessings every day,
and felt to thank the Lord for them. Was
glad to hear such good reports, they showed
the sisters were alive to their many duties; felt
that Father was pleased when He saw the
saints try to do their duties in the Kingdom of
God; spoke of the great life-work before us.
Prayed the blessings of God to rest upon us
all.
	Hon. D. H. Peery said he could not do jus-
tice to his feelings if he had not come to con-
ference; had not missed many for five years.
Spoke on the subject of self-denial; thought
we should be liberal in our dealings with the
poor, and then our Father in Heaven would
bless us with plenty; dwelt also upon the temp-
tations thrown around our young people; was
sorry to see it, but knew we had to be tried in
all things, both spiritual and temporal; asked
the blessings of God to be with this people
from the least to the greatest.
	President Lewis W. Shurtliff was pleased to
see so many sisters from the county, sisters that
he had known for years; was much pleased in
listening to the reports, but was greatly sur-
prised to hear of so few numbers of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT being taken,
it being a paper especially adapted to
the sisters; hoped the sisters would subscribe,
as it was a good paper to have in every house-
hold. Spoke of the Gospel; thought the easi-
est part of it was the talking, the living and
carrying out our religion in our daily lives was
no very easy matter, it required great care and
attention to the little things in the daily rounds
of life. It requires the noblest men and wo-
men that God has created to be true Lat-
ter-day Saints. Thought it was a great comfort
to see the growth of this work; said the women
of Utah were, or should be, leaders, setting an
example worthy of imitation by all the world;
exhorted them to be faithful and not swerve
from any duty and not let any sacrifice be
too great to make for the great work we are all
engaged in. He spoke on a variety of sub-
jects, and closed by praying God to bless the
community with a spirit to do good and over-
come evil.
	Sister Brown made a few remarks and ad-
journed the meeting until 2 p.m.
	The afternoon meeting commenced with the
usual exercises of singing and prayer. The time
was then occupied by the presidents of the
various branches throughout the county. Each
gave a verbal report and bore a faithful testi-
mony to the work of God.
	Hon. C. F. Middleton gave much good and
wise instruction to the sisters, as did also Elder
Samuel Eggleston. The conference was then
adjourned for three months with singing and
benediction. 			MONTA HARRIS,
							Secretary.
		FIFTH WARD, S. L. CITY.
	Minutes of meeting held in the 5th Ward
Meeting House, called for the purpose of or-
ganizing a Y. L. M. I. A.  Bishop Brimley
stated the object of the meeting. After open-
ing exercises and prayer Sister Freeze, Presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A's. of the Salt Lake
Stake, addressed the meeting on the necessity
of having Y. L. A's. Gave some excellent
advice to the young ladies in regard to the
company they should keep; the necessity of
keeping the Sabbath Day holy, and also to re-
frain from going on evening excursions. Sug-
gested that it was much better for both the
Y. M. and Y. L. to hold their meetings separ-
ately if possible, and every week, and occa-
sionally have conjoint meetings; that by hold-
ing their meetings in this manner, it placed
responsibility upon the young ladies that it
otherwise would not do.		*	*	*
	Sister M. Y. Dougall, Counselor to Sister
Freeze, urged the young ladies to rally round
their President and her counselors, as the suc-
cess of these meetings depend upon each an
every member. Prayed for the spirit of the
Lord to rest upon all, that they might fully
understand the important positions they hold.
	Sister Jane Freeze, Counselor of the 11th
Ward Y. L M. I. A., addressed the young
ladies on the necessity of attending to their
duties; urged them to be faithful and diligent
in the work they were about to take upon
themselves.
	Bishop Brimley thanked the sisters for com-
ing down, and for the excellent instructions
given. Spoke of the organization of a Y. L.
M. I. A., and the necessity thereof.
	Brother George Clark also spoke encoura-
ingly to the young ladies.
	The names of the officers were as follows:
Ellen Marsden, President; Rachel Brimley
and Alice M. Pettit, Counselors; Esther
Davey, Secretary; Harriet Winter, Treasurer.
	Sister Freeze said it was usual for the young
ladies appointed to office to speak to the meet-
ing.
	Sisters Marsden, Pettit and Winter, being
the only ones present, expressed their willing-
ness to do the best they could.
	Sister Freeze said she would like a report of
this meeting sent in. And it was also neces-
sary to have a representative in the meetings
held at Sister Taylor's residence, 1 ½ blocks
	The names of twenty young ladies were
then enrolled as members of the 5th Ward Y.
L. M. I. A., after which the meeting closed
with singing. Benediction by President
Freeze.			H. HARROW, Secretary.


Men who make sacrifices do not talk of
them. Those are true sacrifices which have
been done alone, and hidden. The world
knows too much of what we feel and what we
ose.—F. W. Robertson.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
	FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.
		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	"Saturday, January 3rd," wrote the clerk:
"This was a clear beautiful morning--the air
comfortably warm--President Young having
been up late last night did not rise very early;
Elder Kimball was up somewhat earlier.
Uncle John Smith and his wife Clarissa came
in early in the morning, also Isaac Morley and
others." President Brigham Young (it ap-
pears), was quite sick during that day, was
suffering from chills and fever, and did not
come out of his room till five oclock in the
afternoon.
	The next day, Sunday, no public meeting
was held in the Temple on account of the floor
not being strong enough to support so large a
company as would have come in. In the
morning there was a council held in President
Young's room, and another in the afternoon, in
which it was d cided that David Candland be
sent to England. Brother Candland was
present at the council.
	"A letter was received this day from Samuel
Brannan in New York, also one from Pitts-
burg, signed William W. Salt, both of which
were answered. The one to Brannan under
the signature of Brigham Young--the other
was signed William W. Pepper, by David Mus-
tard, clerk--both written by Elder Hyde.
A copy of the New York sun, of December
19th, 1845, containing a letter from James
Arlington Bennett, to the editor, in which he
refers to a letter bearing the signature of
Emma Smith, published in that paper on the
9th of Dec., was also received by President
Young. Bennett’s letter to the editor con-
tained some things which were considered as
evidences that he was also the author of the
letter signed Emma Smith, at least that idea
was advanced by L. R. Foster, and was gen-
erally concurred in by those present, and was
referred to in President Young's letter to
Brannan."
	"The different quorums met in their respec-
tive rooms for prayers at the usual time, viz.,
the High Council and the High Priests.	*	*
	Monday, 5th. "This," he says, "was a pleas-
ant morning and many persons were early at
the Temple.	*	*	President Young's
health is almost restored. He was ready for
duty at an early hour--Spent morning in
hearing letters and newspapers, and giving di-
rections as to the business of the day." He
speaks of George D. Grant having received
ten or twelve letters from William Smith,
which, by Brother Grant's permission, were
read to President Young. The last was dated
at Cincinnatti, and was very scurilous. "The
quorums met at night as usual for prayer.
Prayed for the preservation of President Brig-
ham Young and his counsel and all the quor-
ums, and for blessings upon all the Saints, the
overthrow of our enemies, the healing of the
sick that are among us, for blessings upon the
house of Israel, and for our reception among
them, and for all the Saints abroad."
	On the 6th he speaks of Elder Babbit com-
ing into  the Temple before noon, "bringing a
letter written by Gov. Thomas Ford, to J. B.
Backenstos, dated Springfield, 29th, in which
he refers, among other matters to the probabil-
ity that the U. S. Government would send a
'military force to Nauvoo to assist in arresting
the Twelve, who are charged with counterfeit-
ing."
	The following named persons are mentioned
as engaged in working at the cushions or up-
hostery on the new altar:--Sisters Mary Ann
Young, Vilate Kimball, Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney, Eliza R. Snow, Mary and Agnes Smith
(the wives or Hyrum and Carlos Smith),
Mercy R. Thompson and Sarah Ann Whitney.
	He wrote that evening: "At six o'clock p.m.
President B. Young and Heber C. Kimball,
with their wives, Mary Ann Young and
Vilate Kimball, left the Temple to go to Elder
John Taylor's to attend a party. This incident 
I well remember. It was called the Printer’s
Festival. Among the most pleasing incidents
that claim a place in my memory, were the
Printer's Festival, given annually by Elder
John Taylor who was Editor of the Nauvoo
Times and Seasons.
	It is more pleasant to dwell upon the sunny
side, though without a dark background and
an occasional shadow to the mental picture it
would be very tame and insipid. Thus it
would be with life had we nought but repose.
Were there no storms to meet--no rough and
angry billows to dash upon our devoted heads
while crossing over the ocean of life, nor any
dangerous foes to contend with and overcome,
we would neither appreciate our blessings nor
our deliverance, nor have learned to trust to a
Divine power for the same. And our experi-
ence would be of little value to ourselves and
of less interest to the ones who may read our his-
tory. The first printer's festival that I attend-
ed was with H. K. Whitney, who was one of
the printers, and this was held out on the prai-
rie at a farm (I think) of Brother Benbow's
in the summer of 1845. And there for the
first time I remember meeting Brother George
Q. Cannon who was but a mere lad and near-
ly, if not quite, the youngest boy in the office,
and I rather think that Judge Elias Smith was
the eldest, he being the business agent in the
office. This one given at the house of Elder
Taylor was the last, being about a month pre-
vious to our departure from our beautiful city
Nauvoo to become again wanderers upon west-
ern plains for the Gospel's sake--to seek an-
other home where those who drove us out be-
lieved that no white man could dwell.
	Among the guests at Brother Taylor's were
not only President B. Young and Counselors,
but others who, like them, had been kept se-
creted a goodly portion of the time. There
were one or two incidents connected with this
party which helped to stamp it upon my
memory. When entering Brother Taylor’s
door in company with my parents I was greet-
ed with the following salutation, "I wish you
much joy," ect., and it was repeated by every
one that met us, some person having started
the report that H. K. Whitney and myself
were married, which was all news to us, we be-
ing perfectly ignorant of any such transaction,
but as we found it impossible to convince them
to the contrary, Horace, who thought it a good
joke, and did not mind carrying it out, com-
menced there and then to call me "wife," and
for years after he invariably addressed me by
this title, though we were not married until the
3rd of the following February, President B.
Young performing the ceremony in the Tem-
ple, and on the 27th of the same month we
crossed the Mississippi, en route for the Rocky
Mountains. This was rather too long and
tedious a journey to be called a wedding tour
--thousands of miles over scorched and dreary
deserts, rocky mountains and poisonous lakes
of alkali, etc. But after all it had its sunny
side as well as its dark shadows, the descrip-
tion of which we must leave till some future
time, and return to the festival where Judge
W. W. Phelps was the next to be made the
victim of a practical joke. And as the Judge
had asserted that no one could play a joke
upon him, it did not end so pleasantly. The
offender happened to be the Judge's eldest
son, (Waterman) who was one of the
type setters and had a persistent habit
of playing practical jokes. He hap-
pened to be sitting behind the Judge, who was
seated in an easy chair, and pinned the cush-
ion to his father's coat skirt, who soon grati-
fied his irreverent son by rising and the ap-
pendage with him, which of course attracted
general attention, though but few had yet
come. But the Judge did not relish the joke.
His face colored up and a very black cloud
rested down upon his usually fun-loving visage
as he looked around and probably guessed the
author of it.  He left the room in a terrible,
passion and idd not return nor quite recover
form it during the whole evening. This cast
a momentary cloud over the ones who witnessed
this scene, but it would have been impossible
for any one, even the Judge, under similar cir-
cumstances, with a keen sense of the ridicu-
lous, to have refrained from laughing, though
we felt ashamed for his son whose bump of
reverence (if he ever possessed any) must have
sorely neglected to be thus lacking in the nec-
essary respect due to a parent. But how often
do we witness that same spirit of irreverence
paid to parents and to the aged. My youth-
ful training was such that I could never treat
my parents nor the aged with any undue fa-
miliarity. In the Holy Bible we read, "Hast
thou children? instruct them and bow down
their neck from their youth. Hast thou
daughters? have a care of their body, and
shew not thyself cheerful toward them." This
would be thought rather harsh treatment in
these days, but we should realize that a great
and an awful responsibility is resting upon
parents, and we need much of the Holy Spir-
it to assist us in the training of our offspring,
for there are seldom two who are constituted
alike--each one has his or her own peculiari-
ties; and many I believe will wake up in the
morning of the resurrection and find them-
selves childless because of their wicked and
brutal treatment of them in this life. But if
the youth could but be prevailed upon to lis-
ten to kind teachings or profit by other's ex-
perience they might avoid many of the gulfs
and quicksands which we can see lying in the
pathway before them. "A reproof from a
friend is better than smiles from a hypocrite."
	We read in Holy Writ that "the Lord hath
given the father honor over the children and
confirmed the authority of the mother over
the sons. Whoso honoreth his mother is as
one that layeth up treasure. Whoso honoreth
his father shall have joy in his own children,
and when he maketh his prayer he shall be
heard." Honor thy father and mother both
in word and deed, that a blessing may come
upon thee  from them. "My son, help thy 
father in his age, and grieve him not as long
as he liveth. And if his understanding fail,
have patience with him; and despise him not
when thou art in thy full strength, for the re-
lieving of thy father shall not be forgotten; 
and instead of sins it shall be added to build
thee up. In the days of thine affliction it
shall be remembered; thy sins also shall melt
away as the ice in the fair, warm weather.
Honor thy father with thy whole heart, and for-
get not the sorrows of thy mother. Remember
that thou wast begotten of them and how
cants thou recompense them the things that
they have done for thee?"
			To be Continued.


LIGHT AND SHADOW.
There are seasons—brief periods in ourexis-
tenee—when can truly say we are happy.-'
We feel a pure, calm contentment born of the'
spirit of light, which is not only a spiritual
elevation, hut the entire being seems involved.
The eye beams with an unusual brightness—s'
the step seemd to have regained its youthful,
elasticity. Sweet melody unconsciously falls
from the lips in some half-forgotten strain.
Oft the plainest face becomes beautiful as it
were by electrical inspiration. At the time we
may not be able to define the cause of these


emotions; but in more reflective moments we
are convinced their origin is of Heaven.
     Nothing in life can give such perfect con-
tentment and joy as the Spirit of God. In
whatever circumstances we may be placed,
that sweet, benign influence brings peace and
a secret satisfaction to our souls that must be
experienced to be understood.
     We cannot expect this life to be one eternal
sunshine—one endless round of comfort and
pleasure, for sorrow in some form will overtake
us howe’er propitious may be our course. This
seems necessary for the perfecting of this mor-
tal life. For:
	“The sweets of life would all be wasted
	On those who never grief had tasted.”
After clouds have o’ercast the horizon—cloth-
ing all nature in a shadowy mantle—how
much do we appreciate the bright sunlight !
After the chilling frosts of winter, how glorious
is the spring-time ! The bitter makes the
sweet taste the sweeter. Clouds cause us to
love the genial sunshine. Adversity .brings
humility and inspires gratitude for prosperity;
drawing us nearer that holy shrine from
whence all blessings flow.	E. R. S.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


﻿IN MEMORIAL

     It is with feelings of the deepest sorrow that we
are called upon to record the death of Sister Maria Boe-
sen, which took place at her residence in Lynne, Weber
Co., June 11th, 1883.
     Sister Boesen was a faithful wife, a true and affection-
ate mother, and a faithful friend. From the time that
she embraced the Gospel she never faltered in her faith,
and her life was devoted to the discharge of her duties
as a Latter-day Saint in every position in which she
was placed. She leaves a husband and four children,
and many, many friends to mourn her loss.
     The following Resolutions of Respect to our beloved
sister, Maria Boeson, who departed this life June 11th,
1883, in the thirty-ninth year of her age, were unani-
mously adopted by the Relief Society of Lynne Ward:
     Whereas, God in his infinite wisdom has called from
our midst our Sister, who was greatly beloved and res-
pected by all for her kind and gentle disposition, her
pure, virtuous, and exemplary life, her fafthful labors
in our Society, and the many good qualities she pos-
sessed;
     Therefore, be it resolved, that we, the members of the
Relief Society of Lynne Ward, do deeply mourn the loss
of our beloved sister, Maria Boesen, and that we con-
dole with her husband, children and relatives in their
great loss, but while mingling our tears with their we
would point with joy to the hope of a glorious resur-
rection which all true Latter-day Saints will possess.
     And be it resolved, that we present a copy of these
Resolutions to her husband, and that a copy be sent to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, and that they
be spread upon our Record Book and that her good deeds and
untiring patience in doing her duty may be handed
down to future generations for their guidance in the
cause of truth.
(Signed) MARY BIRD, President R. S.
MARY A. GARDNER, Secretary.
Farewell, sister, we shall miss you,
But not more we'll see your face,
Until we are changed as you are,
In a higher, holler place.
Lynne, August 2nd, 1883.

     Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister Anna
Tracy, who departed this life September 1st, 1883.
     Whereas, an alwise providence has called from us by
the hand of death our beloved sister,
     Resolved, that we recognize in the death of our sis-
ter, Anna Tracy, a worthy teacher in the Relief Society
of Wilson’s Ward.
     Anna Tracy was born July 24th; 1850, and was the
daughter of Barlo Wilson and Agnes Hunter, was mar-
ried to Austin Tracy in 1867; was the mother of six
children, of whom three are left to mourn her loss. She
was a kind and affectionate wife and mother, and
gained the respect and love of all who knew her. She
died of consumption after a lingering illness.
     Resolved, That we deeply sympathlze with the be-
reaved family and friends who mourn her loss.
     Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and a copy be furnished the bereaved family,
also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
MARY STAKER, Ass't Secretary R. S.

 In memory of Sister Rhoda Ann Miller, wife of the
late Bishop Miller, and  President of the Relief Society
of Mill Creek Ward, who departed this life August 2nd,,
1883, in her 69th year, after a long illness. She was a
good and faithful member of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, and her many high and noble qual-
ities and deeds will ever be remembered by all who
knew her, for her history is full of kindness, and it
seemed her main object was to look after the poor and
see that they were all clothed and fed. Sister Miller held
the office of President for a number of years, which
office she filled as far as her health would permit.
Though afflicted and not able to attend much of the
time to the meetings, her good and comforting influence
was felt at all the gatherings of the sisters. We willmiss
our dear sister's company who has been taken from us.
But we realize that our loss is her gain. Our sympa-
thies are extended to the many relatives and friends of
the family. The funeral service was held in the Mill
Creek Ward House, on the following Sunday at ten
o’clock a.m., Brothers Joseph F. Smith, Angus M. Can-
non and Joseph E. Taylor addressed the congregation.
Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and E. S. Taylor were also
present. Loving hands  draped the house in white
and flowers.
     A large concourse of friends followed the remains to
the Salt Lake Cemetery. There she will await a glori
our resurrection.
NELLIE E. SPENCER, Secretary.
ANNIE M. MIKESELL, Ass't Secretary


[Column 1]

ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.
Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Can be called by Telephone Day or Night.
For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	-	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 	40c.	“
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, vol. 1,	-		$1.00	“
“ 	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	of the author, bound in morocco, 		1.25 “
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	Georgo A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	“
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLEB, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Buildings; also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,	Wool Batting
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,	Caseimers,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brushes, Etc., Etc.
SCHOOL IN MIDWIFERY.
DR. ROMANIA B- PRATT
COMMENCES a new class in her office over Godbe &
Pitts’ Drug Store October 8th, at 1 o’clock p.m.
This school was established in 1878. The Term of five
months, three lectures per week, is a practical course
for those who desire to enter at once into this work. It
is advised that those whose circumstances will admit,
attend a second course, for the subject is so comprehen-
sive that a repetition of the lectures is very advan-
tageous, especially to those of limited education.
 Other branches of medicine are taught only as they
bear especially upon this subject. More than that in so
limited a course would be too superficial. Manikin,
charts and instruments are used in teaching.
Tuition..............     ....$30.00
Books..................  .....$13.00
N. B.—Orders for books must be sent in early so as to
get them from the east in time.

[Column 2]
Established October 1868.
Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS'AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house In the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.
----------------------------
Special to the Ladies.-,
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
					in
LACES,		RUCHES,	EMBRODERIES,
	FANS,	GLOVS,		PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, 	COLLARS,	TIES,
	    And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department tor Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
	HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
		WALL PAPER,
   CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS,
		   AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET
SALT LAKE CITY.
FAuerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
