VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1883.	NO. 14


<t' .="" ',="" t.,yte;ieftw="" by="" the="" things="" wo="" suffer'="" jsnch="" ls="" onr="" maker’s.plan;="" [olt,what="" deep-sach="" irpable—="" h="" 'mjttjfh="" blessing="" instead="" of="" a="" ban.="" ilwhatlf="" afatbr’d(j)="" nnmber'!,x="" ;="" ,="" n="" vo="" f="" can="" terlly="" do="" ns="" theyplease?="" %="" -="" j?.wht="" if="" dhq="" aimless-slumber="" ri="" j'or="" bay-'8onlitaka="" thinoeaso?”'="" .ft="" '.belter="" pur'slrengllr="" to="" measure—="" “="" "’gainst="" host'="" “the="" ills="" thatbe,”!="" :.="" -than'="" to'="" sink;="" jn="" sands="" call’d="" pleasure,="" r="" u="" that="" circle="" prosperity’s'sea.'="" constant="" tenslon-r-="" ”jtho="" straits="" tiiat="" the.="" poorest="" kubw—="" than'be="" void="" comprehension="" senses="" sufferer’s="" woe,="" "="" i="" b="" j="" better="" learn="" compassion="" ranch="" we="" keenly="" feel,="" .than.="" to.="" follow="" tyrant,="" fashion!="" .a,'blare="" her="" whims="" and="" will.="" ‘="" better'to="" need="" assistance="" ;.."="" an="" lean="" on="" father’s="" lore,="" than="" widen="" tha="" bpacc—the="" distance—="" i)0tthttearthan'the="" hearjens="" abore..="" ’="" l="" <!the="" test="" of‘dur="" souls="" convictions.™="" .v="" r.iil="" ‘the="" gauge="" trust="" truth—="" t="" atfsuch;are.our(llght="" afflictions—="" 'jpount.mrq,="" croym,.forsooth.="" leant="" things'.wo="" ',‘8nch'isburmaker’ap'lanj="" :="" 'oft="" what="" deem'buch'tronblo-="" ris'a'blessldglnsteadbf="" a’ban.),="" vot="" i.="" esfirrh,-="" woodsunsee.="" 8ait:lake="" clty—..j="" 4.c="" <="" div="">A BLESSING INSTEAD OF A BAN.

"We learn by the things we suffer"
	Such is our Maker's plan;
Oft what we deem such trouble—
	Is a blessing instead of a ban.

What if a favor'd(?) number;
	Can verily do as they please?
Wat if the aimless slumber,
	or say—"soul take thine case?"

Better the constant tension—
	The straits that the poorest know—
Than be void of the comprehension
	That senses a sufferer's woe.

Better to learn compassion
	By much that we keenly feel,
Than to follow the tyrant, Fashion!
	A slave to her whims and will.

Better to need assistance
	And lean on our Father's love,
Than to widen the space—the distance—
	'Twixt the earth and the Heavens above.

The test of our souls convictions—
	The gauge of our trust and truth—
Such are our light afflictions—
	Count them, a crown, forsooth.

"We learn by the things we suffer"
	Such is our Maker's plan;
Oft what we deem such trouble—
	Is a blessing instead of a ban.
					EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.

Salt Lake City.


CHRISTMAS

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There are days in the year that seem to ar-
rest us in our busy life of toil and every day
enjoyment; at these times, we seem to resolutely
catch time by the forelock, and say to him,
stay with us a few moments, and help us to
take a look back on the road we have traveled,
and time seems to accede to our entreaty and
at once takes us up into a high mountain, from
which we stand and gaze down the indistinct
and interminable road we have traveled; we go
back as far as the eye can take us—and
memory rises up and shows us our nursery
home where as little children we were fostered
and cared for, and every want supplied by
our loving parents. Those beautiful parents,
how they stand out in bold relief in that dim
vista as the Lares and Penates of that beloved
home; how much we remember, and yet there
seems a veil of mist overshadowing that cradle
of childhood.
	Memory brings us higher up the vista—
we are taking the leap into the grand arena of
life! we become actors on the broad stage of
terra firma; we voluntarily take a part—we
throw off the domino, in which we acted out
our childhood under tutors and governors, now
we take a character, and in that we intend to
walk the stage of life; there is much that en-
chants and dazzles our brain, the tinsel of the
stage is fascinating, we look not beyond, the
arena seems all for us, and those associated
with us; the audience seem smiling approving-
ly upon our debut, and we are elated, for the
springs of life are bright and sparkling—we

[Column 2]
array ourselves in our character role, and we
walk the stage with an elastic step, there is a
concord of sweet sounds about our ears, and
we feel inspired to carry out the role we have
undertaken. We labor to propel our destiny,
and we dream of eclat and applause crowning
our exertions. The scenes are shifting—the
glory and the beauty of the opening ones are
changed—dark and gloomy ones take posses-
sion, but we plod on. Alas! the poetry of the
stage has vanished, but we work on determined
not to be discouraged; we bid adieu to the poet-
ry, except a small portion which we lovingly
lay up in the depths of our soul, that we be
not quite starved. We then heroically take
up the prose of life; we find it is something
more substantial, more nutritious, more suit-
able for the wear and tear of this work-a-day
world.
	We have now attained the maturity of
character and reputation; we make a Home,
we people it with beings of our own creation,
we have dropt all play-acting, we are now sur-
rounded by the stern, matter of fact realities
of the world's wide stage! we have passed the
rocks and shoals that all human beings have to
pass through, more or less, we have been per-
mitted to recognize the hand of God, we real-
ize that He has been the Grand Organizer and
Governor of our lives.
	This day of Christmas also teaches us to re-
member the Savior of the world, the Redeem-
er of the human family; Him whose name we
have taken upon ourselves, and whose service
we rejoice in, and are trying to magnify our
calling. Let us then be cheerful, let us rejoice,
let us even be merry, but let us remember to
temper all our moods with dignity and sobrie-
ty, that were we summoned to quit this stage of
life in the midst of our rejoicing, we might
calmly and smilingly quit these sublunary
scenes for the grand empyreum of our Father
who art in Heaven, so that when the final cur-
tain falls on our earthly pilgrimage we may
hear the plaudits, not of an earthly audience,
but the chant of myriad voices singing Wel-
come the new inhabitant of Heaven, enter in-
to the Joy of thy Lord.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Her Majesty has outlived nearly all the men
who surrounded her throne when she was first
placed upon it. Only one man of the Cabinet
of 1837 remains. Earl Grey was the Viscount
Howick who as Secretary for War took the
oath at Kensington Palace. The name of
Lord Melbourne suggests almost another age.
Lord Palmerston, Lord John Russell, and Sir
John Cam Hobhouse have long passed away.
Lord Lansdown's great grandson inherits Bos-
wood. We believe that there are only three
members of the present Parliament who were
in the Parliament of 1837. These are Mr.
Gladstone, Mr. Christopher Talbot, and Mr. C.
P. Villiers."
	"The Queen has had eight Prime Ministers.
They are all gone save Mr. Gladstone. It is
not wonderful that Her Majesty sometimes
speaks as though she found herself in a world
she does not know. With her strong attach-
ment to old friends, her dislike of new faces,
and the difficulty with which she can reconcile
herself to new acquaintances—with new inter-
ests occupying men's minds in society, art, and
literature, it is no marvel that the Queen, hav-


ing spent a life for twenty-two years almost of
seclusion, hardly understands us or where we
stand. Yet to-day there is no man or woman
in England who would change her for another
monarch."

	Sometime since we published something about
Mrs. Clara T. Leonard and Governor Butler's
opinion about a woman not being a person.
The "Daily Evening Traveler" of Nov. 24,
published in Boston, Mass. contains the fol-
lowing, besides the statement in detail which is
too lengthy for our columns:
	"The full bench of the Supreme Court sent
to the Governor and Council yesterday its de-
cision upon the point raised as to whether Mrs.
Clara T. Leonard is lawfully a member of the
Board of Health, Lunacy and Charity. The
Governor declared her place vacant on the
ground that she was not a person, and made
an appointment to fill the vacancy which he
held existed. The Council declined to accept
the Governor's interpretation of the law, and
an appeal was made to the court, which now
decides that Mrs. Leonard is a "person" under
the statutes, and that she is as fully and as le-
gally a member of the board as any other one
of the eight who are her colleagues."


A CHRISTMAS STORY FROM
REAL LIFE.

	There lived, in a settlement on the frontier
of Southern Utah, in the year 1872, a family
consisting of a man and his wife and two
children; one a boy of five years, the other a
babe of three months; their home, a rude hut
made of lumber and willows covered with can-
vas, indicated to the passer by they were labor-
ing under the difficulties and deprivations of a
new settlement. It was winter; and the mor-
row would be Christmas Day! The ground
was white with snow, and the few trees in the
garden looked like pyramids of crystal; for na-
ture's misty king had paid them a visit the
night before and scattered his shining pearls
around. Old Sol was smiling, and nature
looked grandly beautiful! but to the woman in
that humble cot everything was dark and
dreary. She was thinking, what had she for
Christmas dinner? Where were the turkey
and other delicacies that should grace the
table? Bread and butter were the only con-
tents of her cupboard. To the mother the
dinner was only of secondary importance; she
thought of the little stockings that should be
hung up that evening, and the presents that
she would like to put in and around them. But
she had no money to buy with, and the coun-
try furnished no such luxuries.
	Their relatives, who lived in the north, had
plenty. Her brother-in-law had gone to Salt
Lake City and he was expected home soon.
Would they send presents by him? A ray of
hope was in that thought, for her friends had
been very kind to her. But would he be
home to-night? She feared not. In the midst
of her cogitations a bright little fellow came
running in.
	"Oh, ma! Santa Claus will be here to-night.
You must hang up my stocking."
	"I am afraid, my boy, Santa Claus will not
visit us; we are too poor."
	"Mean, old thing! not to come because we
're poor; he ought to come all the more. I
know ma! Uncle Ralph's gone to Salt Lake


[Column 1]
City, and grandpa will give Santa Claus money
and send him in uncle's wagon."
	"My son, I fear Uncle Ralph cannot get
here to-night."
	"Don't cry, ma, if the cross, old Santa Claus
does not come to-night he will be better na-
tured by New Year's, and then he will bring
us lots of presents. What a jolly time we will
have! Never mind the stocking ma—here
comes pa!" and away he ran laughing to meet
his father.
	Christmas came and passed as the mother
had predicted, and no Santa Claus; though a
ray of hope had entered her heart from the in-
nocent prattle of her little son, and she looked
forward with some degree of pleasure for the
coming of New Year's Eve. The week drag-
ged slowly by, but at last the welcome sound
of Uncle Ralph's "get up George!" to his team
was heard. The mother's heart leapt for joy,
for it was New Year's Eve. The joyous voice
of her boy was soon heard.
	"Now, ma, here is Uncle Ralph! Come and
see if he has brought Santa Claus."
	"My child, your uncle is weary and will
want his supper; we will not trouble him yet."
	"Oh, ma! just ask him if he has brought
Santa Claus. Of course Santa Claus will no
come until I am in bed, only let me know."
	"I think your uncle has brought him, but
here is your father! we will have our supper
first, for it is getting late."
	The little fellow could scarcely eat his sup-
per he was so excited.
	Said he, "I wonder what I shall have? I
hope it will be a horse and wagon, and marbles;
how I would like a drum! but I suppose Santa
Claus will think I am not big enough. I want
lots of candy. Pa likes candy, don't you pa?
What will baby have? A rattle I suppose; he
is too little for anything else." And he drew
himself up with an air of importance. "A nice
dress for you ma. Oh, dear! I wonder what
else."
	The mother listened with pleasure to the
prattle of her little one, hoping yet fearing,
while the father looked smilingly on and said
but little.
	"Pa, why don't you talk, don't you think
grandpa has sent Santa Claus?"
	"I hope, my son, he has, for ma's sake and
your's. You must not be disapointed if he
has not."
	"Oh, but I shall pa! for they've got lots of
things up there and we have so little here."
	"I think he has, my son, so go to bed and
dream of the horse and wagon."
	"Yes, my boy," said the mother, "go to bed
and ma will hang up your stocking; I think it
will be full in the morning.
	After the mother had put her son to bed
she crossed the garden to the house of her
brother-in-law. A rap on the door, and at the
well-known sound of the "come in" of a country
place, she entered.
	"How do you do Ralph? I hope you have
had a pleasant journey."
	"Not very pleasant, Mary, but my health is
very good."
	"Did you see my father or brothers?
	"Well, I did see your father, I met him in
the street and had a little chat with him; I did
not see any of the rest, I was so busy I did not
call on them; I wished to get home before the
cold weather set in. What going? Oh, no, sit
down and have a chat by this warm fire.
New Year's to-morrow, Mary; a merry time."
	"Not to-night, Ralph, I must go home to the
children. Good night."
	The mother got away as quick as possible for
fear she would break down. She could scarce-
ly walk home her disapointment was so great.
As she entered her husband's face changed to
one of pity, for he saw how greatly she was dis-
appointed, but he wisely said nothing. She
threw herself into a chair and burst into tears.

[Column 2]
	"They have sent us nothing; not even a lit-
tle candy for the children. If they had sent
us some tea and sugar and some candy for the
children I would have been satisfied. Ralph
and Eliza, the cruel things, sat there and
laughed. They knew what I came for, but I
could not ask them. Selfish things! I expect
they have plenty for themselves."
	At this outburst of feeling the husband said;
	"Do not take on so, Mary, Ralph may have
something for you—you say you did not ask
him."
	"No, I felt too proud to ask him. If he had
brought anything he would have said. My
friends do not care for me; they have plenty,
and so have yours. They are all alike—sel-
fish."
	"Hush, Mary, your father and brothers
have been very kind to you. We will not al-
ways be as we are now, this place is but newly
settled."
	"Yes, John, I know that to my cost. Why
were we sent here? nobody cares for us, no, not
even the Lord."
	"Mary, why do you talk so? you are general-
ly so full of hope and thankfulness; you are
not yourself to-night."
	"Myself? no! look at that little stocking
hanging by the chimney; see that sweet face so
smiling and hopeful. I think of the morning,
when the little fellow will leap from his bed
with a joyous shout to find his stocking, empty
—empty. How can we bear the look of that
disappointed face? I do not care so much for
myself it is for my boy."
	"I think, Mary, you are mistaken; I feel
Ralph has something for you."
	"At that moment there was a tap on the door
and a laughing face peeped in, while a cheery
voice siad, "John, come and help me lift a box
out of my wagon."
	"The night is cold, Ralph, wait until morn-
ing, and I will help you unload."
	"I do not know about waiting till morning,
the box is marked M. E. L., I think Mary will
want to see her goodies."
	It was like an electric shock to the mother.
She started to her feet and exclaimed, "Oh,
Ralph! how could you be so cruel as not to
tell me?"
	"You did not ask me, Mary, so I thought I
would give you a surprise."
	"I forgive you, Ralph, but it was a very
cruel one."
	In a few minutes the men returned with a
box weighing nearly one hundred and fifty
pounds; at sight of so large a box the mother's
emotions were so great she could hardly con-
trol herself; she managed to articulate, "Come
in, Ralph, and see what my friends have sent
us."
	"No, thank you, Mary, you shall have all
the benefit of the surprise yourself, without
anyone else to share your pleasure. I wish
you much joy of your New Year's gift, and
may this be but a foretaste of the good things
to come. As it is but a short time till morn-
ing I will be a little hasty, and wish you a
happy and prosperous new year. Good
night."
	And away he tripped with a merry whistle,
feeling satisfied that he had been the means of
taking a load from that mother's heart, and of
sending a ray of sunshine into that humble
abode.
	"Now, Mary, what do you think of the good-
ness of the Lord and the kindness of your re-
latives?"
	"Say no more, John. I am ashamed of my
weakness; I feel that I have been almost wicked
in my repinings; I acknowledge my fault to
you, and will humbly ask the Lord's forgiv-
ness."
	"Well, well, Mary, do not feel so bad, it was
natural that you would be bitterly disappoint-
ed. Now for the axe; I know you will not

[Column 3]
sleep until your box is opened; I do not think
I would, and of course we must fill the child-
ren's stockings. How pleased the dear boy
will be when he finds that Santa Claus has
been here."
	One—two strokes—there, it is open. "Look
first, Mary, I will shut my eyes."
	"Oh, John, see! how many things. A nice
dress for me, two hoods and sacques for baby,
how pretty! dresses and shoes for baby, hat,
suit and shoes for Johnney, and here is the horse
and wagon and marbles he wished for, and a
small bucket of candy set off with the glorious
flag of our country. How the boy will shout
when he sees them. Here is a trumpet and
rattle for baby; look, John! here is tea, sugar
and rice, cans of salmon, lobster and oysters,
raisins, currants and candied peel, with a few
green apples; these are for mince pies; no tur-
key, but a ham instead; jars of preserve, a bot-
tle of brandy and one of whiskey—for sick-
ness I suppose. Spices—ha! ha! as sure as I
live a bologne sausage as long as my arm! oh,
dear! I do not know how they got so many
things in the box. Do not let us take any
more out or we will not know where to put
them."
	"Mary, I feel quite slighted; I do not see
anything for me."
	"Nonsense, John, what does a great fellow
like you want of anything; besides, they knew
you would get most of the good things, and to
prove it I will open this can of lobsters and
make you a glass of brandy and water, that
you may drink their health, and mine, too, if
you like, for I feel very well, thank you."
	The mother had very little sleep that night.
Her heart was full of gratitude to her Heaven-
ly Father for his goodness, and she humbly
asked His forgiveness for her want of faith in
Him. She thought of the kindness of her
friends, and prayed that the Lord might bless
them through the coming year. Then her
thoughts wandered to her sleeping boy; how he
would clap his hands and shout for joy when
he saw his presents; and again she thanked the
Lord for his goodness.
	Day was beginning to break, when a little
head was raised from the pillow, and a hushed
voice said;
	"Ma, are you awake?"
	"Yes, my son."
	"Did Santa Claus come? Did you see him?
May I get up and see?"
	Before his ma could answer he espied the
full stockings with the other things hanging
around them; he sprang from his bed with a
joyous shout.
	"Oh, ma, pa, look! get up and see what lots
of things Santa Claus has brought us. I told
you he would be better natured by New
Year's."
	The tears came to the mother's eyes, and she
thought how little those living in affluence re-
alize the pleasure they could give their friends,
who were not so favored, by imparting to them
a little of their substance.
	Since that time the settlement has gradually
developed; other children have been added to
that little family; the little stockings have
been yearly hung up, and Santa Claus has
never failed to pay his accustomed visit.
					M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


106	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Nothing so increases reverence for others as
a great sorrow to one's self. It teaches one
the depths of human nature. In happiness we
are shallow and deem others so.—Charles Bux-
ton.
	However early in the morning you seek the
gate of access, you find it already open: and
however deep the midnight hour when you find
yourself in the sudden arms of death, the
winged prayer can bring an instant Saviour
near.—James Hamilton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 107


REMEMBRANCES OF THE OLD
LION HOUSE DAYS.

'Tis Christmas Eve, and a freezing night,
As I sit by the grate a lonesome wight,
When up from the coals springs an odd figure,
Than my fore finger not much bigger;
He smiles at my start of deep surprise,
Answering then my questioning eyes—
"Oh" he says, "I'm the Christmas elf,
Have I never been seen by yourself
On a misty, frosty Christmas morning?"
Up to my knee he springs, all scorning
The start I give of cowardly fear
To have so strange a being so near,
And pointing into the grate says, "look!"
Down fall the coals like leaves of a book;
A picture forms as they fall aside
Of a hall both long, and low and wide,
With rows of doors now opened all,
To let the children into the hall;
I hear the echo of shout and call,
As they greet each other with merry glee;
"Christmas gift," and I smile when I see
The girls hold plaster-of-paris dolls,
The boys are tossing their leather balls;
I turn to the elf upon my knee
To ask a question—"look, now!" says he;
A fall of the coals has changed the view;
The opening doors are there, it is true,
But the hall is high and light as well,
And down the stairs is rushing pell mell
A crowd of children, their gifts to find,
Bestowed by father so nobly kind.

The older girls scream with delight
As they find a stove polished so bright,
With tiny kettles, very complete,
A cast-iron stove, small, handy and neat;
The little girls reach the height of their wishes
Finding for each a new set of dishes.
What dinners were planned with dishes and stoves,
Invitations are issued, one might say in droves;
The boys are happy with drums, swords and skates,
With books, and marbles, and whips, and slates;
Such greetings, such fun, such laughter, such noise,
Sure never was heard from girls or from boys.
I try to peep into one of the rooms,
And down fall the coals, and up there looms
A room so long, with tables all spread
And children around them, and up at the head
Sits a man with a noble majestic air,
Keen, kind blue eyes and bright brown hair,
And he smiles when he sees his children's joy,
While he prays that Satan may none destroy.

The turkey, and chicken, and pumpkin pies
Load down the tables, and the children's eyes
Are silently picking out that piece of cake
Which, when the time comes, they will take.
The coals are slowly falling apart,
I look at the elf with throbbing heart,
But he points down to the grate, and so
I look at the scenes spread out below.
They pass along, and each one leaves
A throbbing pain as of one who grieves;
In every scene is the dusky hall,
The opening doors and the merry call,
And in the toes of each stocking stout
The package of candies measured out,
The mothers look with happy gaze
Upon their children's merry plays,
And into every changing view
The father's presence goes through and through,
Until, at last, the fire dies down;
From my knee jumps the elf with a frown;
Up the chimney on a spark flies he,
And cries, as he goes, "you'll never be
More blest and happy than when a child."
I roused myself, and almost smiled,
To think the scenes had such a seeming
Of very truth, when I'd been dreaming.
									HOMESPUN.


FLIRTATION.

	This is something that right thinking minds
always have, and always will condemn, but
the majority do not, if we are to judge from
their actions.
	In the world there is a class of ladies and


gentlemen, who tamper with the affections as
if they were mere toys; who think it is a great
achievement to win hearts and cast them away
as unfeelingly as they would the pebbles on
the sea shore. The laws of men condemn to
death those who deprive their fellow-beings of
life, but there is no law of human origin that
can reach the murderers of peace and confi-
dence, but sooner or later the hand of God
reaches them, and the anguish of a guilty and
remorseful conscience is the harvest of the seed
they have sown.
	This cruel, unfeeling custom, practiced by
many of both sexes, is one great cause of the
doubt and distrust that holds such universal
sway on earth; the evil is apparent, but who
can stay its progress? Surely it should have
no place here with the people God has chosen
to restore to earth faith, truth and confidence.
I believe there are but few who realize the ex-
tent of this evil, few who think how much easi-
er it is to lose than to regain, and that when
we once lose confidence in one it plants a doubt
in our hearts concerning all, which it may take
years to eradicate.
	It has always been a marvel to me how any-
one possessing any feeling of humanity, any
sense of right and justice could trifle with the
purest and holiest feelings of the soul, merely
to satisfy their selfish vanity. The one princi-
ple taught by Jesus—"Do unto others as we
would have others do unto us," if faithfully
obeyed, would effectually rid the earth of this
evil, and many others which afflict mankind.
								S. E. R.


[Column 1]
PROMPTINGS OF THE HOLY SPIRIT.

DEAR SISTERS:
	It is with pleasure that I sit down to write a
few lines for the paper. "When I am dictated
by the Holy Spirit to write, then is the time
that I feel that I want to respond to the dicta-
tions of that spirit. If we try to do whatever
we are called upon by that spirit we will find
that we will be greatly benefited by so doing.
One may ask, "How can we know when it is
the Spirit of our Heavenly Father, or whether
it is from the evil one?" We read in the thirty-
fifth section of the old edition of the Doctrine
and Covenants, how to distinguish these differ-
ent promptings. If it is the Spirit of our
Heavenly Father that dictates us to do certain
things we will feel a burning influence within
our bosom, but if it is from the evil one we
will have no such feelings.		*	*	*
Now, if there are any of us that may have a
manifestation given unto us that we cannot un-
derstand who it is from, the only true way that
I have found out is by bowing myself before
our Heavenly Father, and humbly and sincere-
ly ask if it was He that dictated me, or if it
was from another source, and I have never
rose from my knees without He made it known
unto me whether it was right or not; but, sisters,
we must remember that faith is required in or-
der to have our prayers answered. We have
got to put just as much confidence in Him
when we ask for anything as if He were stand-
ing before us, and we were personally talking
to Him or our prayers will not be answered;
for remember, our guardian angel is always
around us, who knows our thoughts, whether
we are sincere or not.	*	*	Yet some
of us have more faith than others, but we know
that there are different gifts given unto the
Church, some have one gift; and some have an-
other; so if we have the gift of faith let us ex-
ercise it in doing some good, though we may
feel that all the good we can do will not
amount to anything, but remember that,

"little drops of water,
	little grains of sand,
Makes the mighty ocean
	And the pleasant land.

[Column 2]
And perhaps with our efforts and little deeds,
though they may seem to us very small, may
be the means of doing a great work in years
to come; so don't let us think there is not any-
thing to do, but let us feel there is no end of
doing good, and that we cannot do enough,
and let us spend our days worthy of imitation,
for we all know that our mission on earth is
short, and what is the use of us struggling to
obtain a lot of earthly riches, when we know
that we have got to go and leave it all behind?
"We ought to rather store up our riches in. hea-
ven where we will be sure to obtain them again
for there neither thieves nor robbers can take
them from us. These are the kind of riches we
ought to seek after, and not after things that
will cause us to lose faith in our Heavenly
Father. Before closing my remarks I feel like
bearing my testimony to the truth of this work;
I know for myself that this is the Church of
God we are engaged in, for I have many testi--
monies to bear.
	I will now testify to one, and that is the gift
of healing. In my childhood days I was tak-
en sick with a fever, which fell upon one of my
limbs and left a running sore, which continued
to run until I was getting up into my teens, and
then I began to think of the promises that had
been made to me many a time by the servants
of God, and especially of the time when I re
ceived the ordinances of the Lord's house, for
they promised me there that I should be made
whole and become healthy and strong; and as I
sat pondering over these things I knelt down
and asked my Heavenly Father in mighty
faith to heal me from my afflictions as had been
promised, and that I might obtain all blessings
that were in store for me. I rose from my
knees, took the oil, anointed the afflicted part
and drest it up again for a week; I then un-
dressed it, it looked much better. I then
prayed and anointed it again, and never looked
at it again for two weeks; when I looked at it
the next time it was perfectly whole, and has
ever since remained so. Now, sisters, is this
notastroug testimony to me that God hears
our prayers? If we only had faith there would
be no end of receiving blessings from our Hea-
venly Father. Ever praying for the Associa-
tion I remain your sister in the Gospel,
					ELIZABETH SMITH.
	Manuscript Paper, Young Ladies Herald of
Union, Spanish Fork, Nov. 14th, 1883.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Still I am learning.—Michael Angelo.

	We are shaped and fashioned by what we
love.—Goethe.

	Many a woman who does not know even the
multiplication table can "figure in society."—
Yonkers Statesman.

	Religion is reproached with not being pro-
gressive; it makes amends by being imperish-
able.—J. Martineau.

	The women of Washington Territory can
vote, and are equal before the law with their
husbands and brothers. There is great rejoic-
ing in consequence of the passage of the bill
granting the right of suffrage to women. A
grand ratification meeting was held. There
was "booming of cannon and ringing of bells."
Addresses of congratulation by noted people.
and letters and telegrams were read congratu-
latory of the success. The affair ended with a
magnificent banquet.
	We add our most sincere congratulations
also, and believe it is a decided step towards
the advancement of the Territory.
	Governor Newell, of W. T., signed the bill
granting the suffrage of women at 11:40 a. m.,
Nov. 22nd, 1883, with a gold pen, presented to
him for the purpose by the ladies of Olympia.


108	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 15, 1883.


[Column 1]
VARIOUS METHODS.
	One can scarcely item[-]ze the bills that are be-
ing introduced into Congress to settle the "Mor-
mon" question. And this is not all, the Presi-
dent of the United States, the Chief Executive
of this great and free Republic, recommends
Congress to annul the organic act from which
Utah derived her power of government, and
place her people under a national commission,
to be appointed by him and confirmed by
the Senate. In regard to this matter it is dif-
ficult to express one's self, such an idea is so far
removed from the spirit of the Constitution, or
even the letter thereof. Of all the several bills,
that of Senator Lapham is the most ridiculous.
It is sufficient to convince those who know, how
little people outside really do know of the actual
circumstances of the "Mormons." To pass laws
to destroy statutes that never had an existence
is an inconsistency, that is new enough to be
original. Senator Lapham has an original
method of solving the problem, but unfortu-
nately for him there is no material to work up-
on, as there never was any law passed in the
Utah Courts, or the Legislature of the Territory,
which recognized plural marriage, consequently
there is no such statute to annul. Congress is
the only authority on this subject, except the
Ecclesiastical authority. Congress has twice de-
cided to legitimatize the children born in plural
marriage, once in 1862 and again in 1882, this is
more of an acknowedgement of the validity of
this order of marriage than the Legislature or
statutes of Utah have ever demonstrated. In
reference to these matters one can but use the
proverb so apropos to the matter. "Man pro-
pose but God disposes." All nations are in the
hands of Him who turns and overturns king-
doms and powers at his will. It is not only that
Congress is besieged to "wipe out the Mor-
mons," but ministers and editors are entreated
to lend their aid to accomplish the work. What
do these people fear? Mormonism is not popu-
lar, the doctrine of plural marriage is offensive,
therefore the United States has no occasion to
fear that it will find a great number of converts.
There is too much sacrifice to be made, it re-
quires laying all upon the altar of one's faith.
A complete consecration. There are only a few
people in the world who are willing to take up-
on themselves such sacred obligations. It
seems as though the world are more "scared"
of "Mormonism" than "Mormons" are of the
unjust legislation and persecution waged against
them and their institutions.
	Religious papers advocating the sword to be
used "to cut the cancer out" seems incredible,
and yet it is true in many instances. Is this ac-
cording to the teachings of our Savior, the
great Master, the examplar for all mankind? In
the editorial columns of one of the oldest and

[Column 2]
most influential newspapers published in Bos-
ton, we find the following extreme language
usd:
	"The Salt Lake City of the ancient world
was Sodom.	*	*	The evaporations of
the Dead Sea steam up to the heights of Ju-
dah."
	After a great deal of very severe language the
editor says: "Has it any rights that a United
States government is bound to respect?	*
Is not the conviction now forced upon a fair
scrutiny that this sore is a cancer, and that the
only healing is to be found in cutting it out?"
etc , etc. This Doctor of Divinity is probably
not a Doctor of Medicine, or he would know that
cancers very frequently break out again after
having been removed by the knife, and were it
possible to kill all "Mormons," and so destroy
every root and fibre of "the cancer," the Gos-
pel would assuredly spring up elsewhere, for it
is not possible for man to cope with the Al-
mighty. Not only that but ere they had half
accomplished such a bloody purpose fear would
take hold upon them. How can such men as
the Rev. De Witt Talmage, Lucian E. Smith,
D. D. and Joseph E. Foster, D. D., advocate
the shedding of blood? Ministers of the Gospel
of peace. Heralds of light to a benighted
world. How pure in heart these men must be!
How can they live in New York and Boston !
But this pious editor and minister says, "We are
not sure that the people of the United States
would not uphold and approve the action of the
President who should take this matter into his
own hands, even if he had to stretch a point to
do it. They hope for very little from Congress.
Millions of them fear to see Congress assemble,
and rejoice when it adjourns. But were there
some way in which a mighty officer and captain
ike the President could gird on the sword and
make a descent on that house of ill-fame, there
would be glory in it, more than that of a third
term, for the President who undertook it—provi-
ded it be done soon." And so on and so on and a
great deal more, closing by saying, "Thirty days
of Oliver Cromwell would suffice for an honora-
ble and healthy end to the thing."
	Is this "religion pure and undefiled?" Mr.
Editor, consider a moment,—what, do the
women and children and the "Mormon" people
think when they read such sentiments as these?
The Scriptures which you profess to take for
your standard expressly say "Thou shalt not
kill." It was written by the finger of God on
the tables of stone. How do you reconcile your
views to the teachings of the Savior whom you
profess to believe in? "Vengeance is mine; I will
repay, saith the Lord." He has also said, "Fear
not him who can only destroy the body, but
fear Him who can cast both soul and body into
hell." Evidently these infuriated ministers do
not know what they are talking of, but it is time
they stopped to reflect, or if it is war to the death
let them take the advice a Mormon mother
gives to Talmage, "Head the army" them-
selves, and not ask President Arthur to do bat-
tle for them. Alas, "how have the mighty fal-
ten!"
	We as a people are in the hands of an alwise
and all-merciful Father, who will not suffer a
sparrow to fall without His notice, and though
"the heathen rage and the people imagine a
vain thing," yet will He remember those who
serve Him and keep His commandments and
the way of their escape will be sure.


LETTER ONE.

	BERNE, Switzerland, Nov. 6, 1883.
MY DEAR SISTER MELLIE:
	The scene that perhaps will interest you most
that I have seen is the beautiful country o


France. No wonder there are artists there, one
would think such a country could produce no-
thing else. We left the little steamer after a
tiresome yet rather amusing night on the Eng-
lish Channel, and took cars at Dieppe for Paris.
What I saw of Dieppe was smoky, dirty and
ugly, and my introduction in to France was any
thing but pleasant, but the town was not many
yards behind when my eyes rested on the lovli-
est scene, I thought, that I had ever beheld, but
the farther we went the more beautiful the
landscape became. I thought with the French
oh! there is nothing like "Ma Belle France."
Miles and miles of magnificent forests, all so
beautifully tinted with the autumn frosts.
Everything was gay and bright, and the
flowers thickly strewn all over the valley. I was
sorry there was no one to tell me what valley it
was, but I am pretty positive it was the valley
of the Seine and Marne, for after leaving the
one river we followed the other through to Par-
is. Since having seen Switzerland I have
learned it (France) was not the most picturesque
region, but abounded in those quiet charms
which grow upon the sympathetic traveler.
'Twas Sunday morning and the sun shone
brightly, the air was full of birds singing their
praises, and I thought that all France seemed a
grand conservatory of art and music. At one
o'clock we passed through Rouen, which is a
very beautiful place, and at three o'clock we
reached Paris. No pen can describe the loveliness
of Paris. I cast aside the soul-delight the pass-
ing panorama had given me and threw myself
wholly into the enjoyment of this most wonder-
ful city. I could only be there four hours and
in that time I "took in" the Grand Opera House
and Hotel, the shops in the Palais Royal, Les
Champs Ellyses, and then just stared at every-
thing. The buildings everywhere strnck me with
wonder and admiration; every few minutes we
would reach a restaurant where in front were a
number of little marble tables and chairs, and
peeple sat there drinking wine. They were only
wine tables. I saw more beautiful women and
elegant dresses in the few hours spent in the
streets there than I ever saw in all my life be-
fore. Those large crowned hats I wrote to Lou
about from New York are much worn, both in
London and Paris. In London the ladies do
their hair very low, in Paris very high, with
short curls in their necks. The afternoon was
lovely, and being on the principal promenades I
thought I saw the styles pretty well. I didn't
take time for dinner, though I had had nothing
to eat all day, for I wanted to see as much as
possible. Switzerland is the most beautiful, in
a natural point, of anything I have yet seen.
			Your loving sister,
								ANNIE.


LETTER TWO.

	ZURICH, Nov. 17th, 1888.
MY DEAR MOTHER:
	Switzerland delights me greatly, it is so beau-
tiful; nature has indeed favored her. The whole
country from one extent to the other abounds
in picturesque scenes. The walks are most
charming, winding as they do, now through a
grand old forest, then opening into a beautiful
green, country winding by the river side, climb-
ing over the hills; just such walks as would fill
romantic souls with poetry and song. The for-
ests, the streams, the lakes, the hills covered
with vineyards, all are lovely, but dearest of all
to me, are the grand old mountains towering in-
to the clouds. Their snow-covered peaks remind
me of home, where the Wasatch Mountains
tower towards heaven, and whose hills
and peaks I have always loved.
	Every thing I see amuses and charms me,


[Column 1]

and especially have I been delighted with Zu
rich. It is the finest city in Switzerland, and
has a life and stir about it not found in many of
the Swiss cities. The farther East one goes
there is quite a perceptible change in the habits
and ways of the people, they seem to have ad-
vanced more with the age. As we traveled
from Berne to Zarich I busied myself watching
the passing scenes, and only think, mother, at
last I have seen a castle—two of'them—at Burg-
dorf and at Aareburg. Both are beautifully sit-
uated on the top of a hill with a river winding
right beneath and overlooking a most lovely
country. When we children used to read our
fairy books and nursery rhymes, we often
wondered if we should ever see a castle, and we
used to fancy ourselves dwelling in one. A
sight of one is sufficient to dispel all desire of
living therein, for they are certainly gloomy
enough to please a Blue Beard, and they look
like prisons where the sunshine of happiness
never enters.
		BERNE, NOV. 21st. 1883.
	Dear mother, I thought it best not to finish
my letter until I had seen more of Zurich and
could tell you something of that beautiful city,
and now I have seen so much I scarcely know
where to begin; but first, when we reached
Berne yesterday afternoon we found your welcome
letter of the 3rd inst. awaiting us, and oh, we
were both so pleased with all the good news you
had to tell, and so glad that our baby and you
all were so well. I though much of you all on
father's birthday and would have liked so much
to have been there to wish him many happy re-
turns. I felt it all the same and prayed for his
happiness and long life. Every one on the ship
who knew me knew it was his birthday, and
knew, too, how it was being celebrated, and
some laughed at me for talking so much about
it, it was the one day they all thought me
home-sick. But I know you want to hear about
our journey so I return to Zurich. The first
thing that I saw was, of course, the railroad sta-
tion, and a good-description of this wonld fill
pages in itself, I cannot even attempt it,
but suffice it to say it is the most elegant sta-
tion I have yet seen, surpasses even the Gare de
Lyon at Paris. From this station is the most
beautiful street of the city, and as fine a street
as can be found anywhere. It is quite wide, and
the buildings on it are most elegant; it extends
from the station at one end to a little park at
the other, which opens on to Lake Zurich, at
the end of this street is a large bridge, just erec-
ted, which spans the arm of the lake. There
are several fine bridges crossing here, for the
lake runs right through the centre of the city,
and the two principal streets are the first on
either side of the stream, running parallel with
it. From this last bridge there is to be a beau-
tiful drive along the banks of the river,
down one side and up the other. It, with the
bridge, will cost twenty million francs. On this
beautiful street, the Bahnhof St., is situated the
large and handsome store of Henerberg, the fa-
mous silk manufacturer, we walked all around
the place and gazed in every window. Such beau-
tiful things there were—silks in every shade and
shape, from the crawling worm up to the finest
lace and brocade. One window particularly in-
teresting was where the process of silk manu-
facture was displayed. There were the worms,
the cocoons, the first spun silk, the raw silk, the
fine silk, and the pretty butterflies. I wonder if
this beautiful dress is the reward this homely
little worm receives for his industry. We didn't
only walk around this wonderful place, but we
walked in finally. There was one window filled
with lace work, and I thought of Mell, how she
would enjoy looking at that. The lovliest hon-
iton point I ever saw. Speaking of the silk in-

[Column 2]

dustry makes me think of our own feeble at-
tempts at home in this line. There are some
sisters in our Church in Zurich who have al-
ways worked in this industry, and who are very
poor, would it not be to the advantage of both if
those working so hard to promote this industry
at home would emigrate some of these sisters. I
dined with one who spools the silk, she has such
a lovely machine, can wind fourteen spools at
once; there are several in the branch who work
with the silk in different ways. One young sis-
ter is a hand weaver and makes silk handker-
chiefs, etc.	*	*	*	*	*
	It would fast suit you the way the houses are
built and the grounds laid out. It is not even and
particular, but the vines and trees and flowers
are just beautiful and there is a wildness about it
which just makes it more romantic and delightful
than these little flower-bordered lawns could
possibly do. There is a very fine university
here, but they tell me at these universities the
chief honor is not to learn the sciences, etc., but
to carry a scarred face, and I readily believe it
when I see the students. They all dress fine
and wear the queerest kind of hats, signifying
that they belong to a certain club, and they all
have the most dreadful scars on their faces, the
more scars they have the prouder they feel.
	We left Zurich Tuesday morning and at noon
reached Winterthur, a very old city, noted per-
haps more for age than anything else. In the
upper part of the city are the ruins of an old
Roman fort, built in the time of Ceaser and
called by him Winterdorum.
	We spent a few hours in this place very pleas-
antly, met some of our Church members, such
nice people and they are all so glad to see us
and treat us so kindly.
	We left Winterthur in the afternoon for
Shafthausen. This was a beautiful ride, and for
a long way was right along the banks of the
river Rhine. We reached this place at six
o'clock and went to see a Bro. Haage, a very
good man, he has quite a nice home here and a
lovely family. We stayed here over night, a
meeting was held in the evening where I met
almost all the members here, they are a very
nice, cheerful people and I very much enjoy
meeting with them. They sing beautifully, and
seem to have such a good spirit within them.
We left Shafthausen early in the morning
wishing to walk to the Rhine Falls before tak-
ing the train. It was abont an hour's walk and
we quite enjoyed it, for the scene after leaving
the narrow streets was very beautiful. This is
also a very old city, having been begun in the
ninth century. Wine making and agriculture
are the chief industries, though there are also
large watch factories here. At last we reached
the falls. At Niagara one is struck dumb with
wonder, but here one sees just enough grandeur
and beauty to loosen his tongue and he can rave
over the foaming waters to his heart's content.
The scene is very impressive, for the water
gushes over the rocks, through them and under
them, and then right upon the side at the top
of the precipice stands an old ruined castle.
Some parts of it have been fitted up for tourists
during the summer months. Here was a sta-
tion where we took train for Basel, we rode for
miles along the banks of the Rhine with the
vine-covered hills of Switzerland on one side
and the broad country of Germany on the other.
We were soon on the German side, and every
now and then along the road we passed a cruci-
fix where the passers by stop and cross them-
selves, the women bow and the men uncover
their heads.
	The head dress the women wear is so funny.
It is a wide black ribbon fashioned into a little
bonnet and then long black ribbons hanging
down to the bottom of their dresses. This is Ba-

[Column 3]

den style. We reached Basel early in the after
noon and after John Q. had attended to his bus-
iness affairs there, we walked around the city a
little. 'Tis a large town, has some fine hotels
and buildings, but is not a pleasant place, at
least so I thought. I never saw so many
Churches anywhere in my life. The bridges
here are very fine, in fact I believe Switzerland
delights more in bridges than anything else.
The Rhine runs right through Basel and there
are some elegant bridges spanning it. We
walked across it once or twice and I thought
what a lovely river the Rhine was, no wonder
it is so famous, and yet I have seen so little of
it. How grand it must be to go all along its
banks and view its ruined castles, its ever
changing scenes. The following morning we
left Basel for Berne, stopping only once at Lies-
thal for an hour where we visited the brother
of Bro. Goss and another family.
	I hope you are not worn out with this long
letter. I know you want to know where I go
and what I see, and have tried to give you a
simple if not a well written account. John Q.
joins me in love to you all, our mother, fathers,
sisters, brothers, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews,
friends and precious little baby.
	Your loving daughter,
		ANNIE WELIS CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 109


AN INDIGNANT MORMON MOTHER.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I felt very indignant when I read the "reliable
information" that Mrs. Newman had given the
ladies of Cincinnati concerning the Mormons in
their domestic relations. How could a woman
who had been to Utah and seen our comforta-
ble homes, our pleasant surroundings and our
people, and talked with them as she said she had
tell such wicked falsehoods? It was all as false
as false could be. But the ladies who heard her
no doubt swallowed it as a sweet morsel. They
would rather hear stories like that about Utah
than hear the truth. "A generous contribution
was given at the close of the service," which
will likely go into the lecturer's pocket instead
of being used to benefit the "poor, degraded
Mormons." I felt that if I were near her I
would give her "a piece of my mind," but not
having that opportunity I take this privilege of
speaking in my own defense through the EXPO-
NENT.
	I am one of those Mormon women that she
so wilfully misrepresented, and I know of no
"chains of bitter degradation and bondage." I
entered into plural marriage of my own free
will, because I knew it was right. I believed
that God had a right to reveal His laws in this
our day, and because I believed that I had the,
right to obey those laws and thereby show my
faith by my works. I chose to obey God rather
than Congress. I have never regretted the step
I took. God has blessed me for honoring that
law; I am satisfied, contented, and happy in my
home. I love my husband, his family and my
children. I do not have to "take liquor or opi-
um" to keep me from going mad, or to drown
any feelings of bitterness within my heart. I
have no time or disposition to indulge in bitter
feelngs towards any one. I am earnestly en-
gaged attending to my own affairs, working out
my own salvation. The Spirit of God makes
me happy. I am not in need of the sympathy
or the aid of our Christian friends, but I am
proud of being a "plural Mormon wife." Talk
about women being slaves in bondage, and hav-
ing to sustain that order of marriage to please
the men, is worse than nonesense. It is absurd.
If the women did not know for themselves that
that principle was true, or if they did not wish
to embrace plural marriage, where is the man or


[Column 1]
set of men who could compel them to do so? I
am surprised that a woman should have such a
limited knowledge of the nature and disposition
of her sex as Mrs. Newman shows by her re-
marks. Women know as well as men that the
Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, and having this
knowledge they are just as anxious to practice
the principles of righteousness as the men are.
Women very frequently decline to marry good,
steady, single young men and marry one who
has a family. Why? Because they believe
they have the right to marry the man of their
choice, and if they choose to marry a man who
already has a wife they think it is nobody's bus-
iness but their own. If Mrs. Newman calls it
prostitution for a man to live with his wives,
support them and educate their children; what
does she call that which the world practice,
where men only acknowledge one wife, but
have mistresses in secret, and do not own
their children, but cast them off. She
didn't say anything about the thousands
of women who are betrayed every year in
the world, where the one wife system prevails.
Nor did she speak of the multitude of children
who are fatherless, made so by the corruption
of their parents, who throng the streets of the
great cities of the East. How much "love, ten-
derness and care" is lavished upon those ragged,
half-starved little waifs who get a living by
stealing, begging, or by any way except hones-
ty.
	We believe in obeying the first great com-
mand that God gave to man, multiply and re-
plenish the earth, and we, unlike some Christian
ladies, do not employ any unlawful means to
prevent having offspring. We look upon child-
ren as a great blessing, as a heritage from God,
and no Latter-day Saint is satisfied to live in a
childless home. We are taught that children
come from the presence of God our Father, and
that it is a privilege to have a body and gain an
experience on the earth. We also believe that
their spirits will return to God if they keep His
laws while on the earth. Believing this, how is
it reasonable to say that we have no affection
for our children. They are the light and joy of
the household, they are the future hope of Isra-
el. They are all well provided for with every
thing that love can suggest. Loving parents
and teachers spare no pains to instil into their
youthful minds principles that if practiced will
make them good men and women in this life
and exalt them in the presence of God. I know
that this is true. I have been born and raised
in this Church. I can testify that I have never
been taught to do wrong, but all my instruc-
tions have been to be honest, truthful, virtuous,
kind and obedient, to treat others as I would
like to be treated. When children are disobedi-
ent and take a course that leads them into sin,
parents know no keener sorrow.
	Mrs. Newman says hundreds of child-
ren attend the Christian schools, and
hundreds more would apostatize did they
dare and a shelter were provided. Dear
me! Who has provided a shelter for those who
have already dared to apostatize? Do they not
remain in our midst without being molested?
Let our Christian friends provide a shelter and
give those who are afraid an opportunity to flee
from us, for if there are any of that class among
us they are welcome to "flee," for we want no
"cowards in our band who will their colors fly.,'
The Latter-day Saints know no fear, only the
fear of displeasing God. They are like Lord
Nelson was when a child, when his grandmoth-
er told him she thought fear would drive him
home he said, "What is fear, I never saw it."
We know it is false. Our Heavenly Father
knows it is false. He knows our out-goings,

[Column 2]
our in-comings, and the desires of our hearts; He
hears our prayers and knows our hopes. He has
preserved us in the past; He will do so in the
future. He also knows what our enemies are
doing. He knows their plans and secret combi-
nations, and He will reward them according to
their deeds of darkness, and some day they will
find themselves outside the gates of the "city,"
among those who "love and make a lie;" while
the despised and persecuted Mormons will have
an inherltance with the apostles and patriarchs
of old, with Jesus Christ as their King.
						M. E. TEASDALE.

	Nephi, Dec. 11th, 1883.


110
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REFLECTIONS.

	Do you think we would be prepared for the
coming of our Savior to earth if we adhered to
the proposal of the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher?.
For me I should rather accept the message of
the angel to the Prophet Joseph, who requires
all to strictly observe and keep the commands
of Jesus, which He gave when He dwelt upon
the earth. To such He gives a portion of His
Spirit that the same results will follow in ac-
cordance with their faith. Thousands know this
for themselves but not for another. But oh!
the power that worldly pursuits have to obliter-
ate these truths if we neglect to be faithful In
thanking Him for these blessings and ask divine
aid in the future.
	A thrill of joy took possession of my mind up-
on hearing the recital of the three watchmen
who saw the beautiful phenomenon, Nov. 20th,
at about half past five in the morning. It seems
the light was of a beautiful pinkish hue, which
moved to Ensign Peak and rested upon its top
fifteen minutes, then loomed up into the hea-
vens about one hundred feet, where it remained
until sun rise dispersed it from view. I think
it is a good omen. I always look upon Ensign
Peak as a sacred spot, or at least will be so,
when the flag of every nation will be unfurled
to the breeze, welcoming all nations to the King-
dom of God, for He say, "All who will come,
may come and drink of the waters of life free-
ly."
	You will find the testimony of these gentle,
men in the Evening News of November 21st,
1833.	M. E. K.


R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

THE WHITECHAPEL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY,
LONDON.

	By the emigration of the late President,
Elizabeth Young, and one of her Counselors,
Susan Witpin, it became necessary that this
society shonld be reorganized, President Gar-
ner having notified the Conference President,
E. H. Nye, of the position of affairs, and he
attended the meeting of the branch on Sunday,
Oct. 21st, 1883, when a reorganization of the
society was effected. The following Elders
were likewise present and assisted Elder Pic-
ket: viz. Elders Clawson and Denney.
	Towards the close of the afternoon meeting
Prest. H. Garner made a few remarks relative
to the proceedings about to take place. Prest.
E. H. Nye then followed with a brief but in-
structive address appropriate to the occasion.
He said, sisters appointed to leading positions
in the church should believe in and teach all
the principles of the Gospel, not simply be-
lieving in some of them, and rejecting others.
	Elder Picket then followed in a similar
strain and pointed out that the sisters about to
be chosen to fill these vacancies should be the
best women in the branch. President Garner
then proposed Sister Mary Garner to be Presi-


dent of the Relief Society; Sisters Mary Wa-
terfall and Harriet Heath, Counselors; Sister
Ann Gill to continue to act as Secretary. This
was seconded in each case, put to the vote and
carried unaaimously. Sister Mary Garner was
set apart under the hands of Prest. E. H. Nye,
Sister Waterfall under the hand of Elder Pic-
ket, and Sister Gill under the hands of Elder
Clawson, Sister H. Heath not being present.
Prest. H. Garner said it gave him great satis-
faction and even joy that the several names
he had submitted had receieved the entire ap-
proval of Prest. Nye and the rest of the breth-
ren. He then proposed that the society thus
organized should hold their first meeting Oct.
28th, seconded by A. R. Clark, carried unani-
mously.	ALEXANDER R. CLARK,
	Branch Secretary.


OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE 
MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Wednesday, 4th, we remained in our tents.
Early that morning the band came and played
for the benefit of President Young and breth-
ren.  In the afternoon, they having received
an invitation from the people of Farmington
to play, went after obtaining the mind of the
President, where John Kay, our favorite song-
ster, sang one of his best, "The sea, the sea."
They were treated with the greatest respect
and kindness, and given an excellent supper at
the Galt House, and afterwards escorted a mile
towards the camp. My husband and brother
William accompanied the band, and according
to the former record they "returned to camp
about 9 p.m. This day Bishop Miller left camp
and went ahead to seek a new place. Brother
Kimball's family and our own all continue
well, hearty and in good spirits."
	The following little incident occurred in the
early part of our journey. Two or more of
father's young wives were walking behind the
wagons when night overtook them and the
wagons being out of sight, and, not daring to
proceed alone, they stopped at a farm house
where they were kept all night and treated to
the best the house afforded. The nicest room
they had—belonging to their only son—was
given them to sleep in, and after breakfast he
escorted them to the camp, which though but
a little distance off was hidden under a high
hill to the left of the road. Father had cau-
tioned his wives and folks about lingering be-
hind, and this had a tendency to make them re-
member it.
	My husband wrote, "Thursday, 4th, struck
our tents about ten a.m.—had not proceeded
more than ten or fifteen rods when the axletree
of one of father's wagons was broken, in conse-
quence had to leave it behind and put the load
on our other wagons. I went two miles ahead
on horseback to a little place called Bonaparte
—at this place we crossed the Des Moines
River and camped after going a short distance,
having made only three miles this day. I then
proceeded two miles further to Bro. Kimball's 
encampment, who with several others, includ-
ing the artillery, had stopt on the open prai-
rie."
	"Friday, 6th. After having struck our tents
*	*	*	Bro. Kimball and family
went on, I waited till our folks came up and
proceeded about six miles to Indian Creek,
where we arrived at two p.m., and took up our
quarters for the night—they having made
eight miles to-day—very bad muddy going." 
	"Saturday, 7th. Before starting this morn-
ing a man living in the neighborhood, four
miles south of Keosauqua, by the name of
Cochrun, came to our camp and laid claim to a
yoke of father's oxen, saying that they had
strayed or been stolen from him three years


[Column 1]
p﻿reviously. To avoid disturbance father paid
him $30 in gold, and about ten o'clock a.m.
struck our tents and traveled about nine miles
and encamped on a small creek by the side of
the road."
	Towards morning father was sent for to
return to Bishop Whitney's camp. Next
day Bro. Markham arrived, bringing the news
of the birth of a son to my father's wife, Sarah
Ann. This was the 8th day of March, and
the child was called David, as also the valley
where he was born. Next day towards even-
ing father and President Young went to Bish-
op Whitney's camp and blessed the child. The
same evening Bro. Wm. Clayton with the
band came up and camped with us, for which
we were all glad, as they entertained us every
evening when in camp. This place where we
were camped was called Richard's Point, on
the borders of a small wood. The majority of
the camp of Israel were there, where we were
obliged to remain over a week in consequence
of stormy weather.
	My husband wrote.—"The number of souls
in Zion's camp, this side of the Mississippi, at
the present time somewhat exceeds 2,000.
Wm. Kimball conveyed Sarah Ann in an easy
carriage to the camp this day. Before leaving
the Valley of David father (Bishop Whitney)
had the good luck to exchange a span of horses
for two yoke of oxen and thirty bushels of
corn, with a man living in the vicinity."
	The band having received an invitation from
the people of Keosauqua to come and play,
they went on the 10th and 11th, and the Court
House was crowded with an appreciative audi-
ence. They received an invitation to repeat
their concert the next evening, which they did,
were also invited by the citizens to take a ride
on a "light boat," and as they neared the land-
ing a cannon was fired twice. At this place
they cleared about $30. Concerning that place
Horace says in his journal: "This place, the
county seat of Van Buren County, lies about
ten miles east of our present encampment on
the Des Moines. Wednesday, the 11th, in ac-
cordance with the invitation the band went
again to Keosauqua, Wm. and myself accom-
panied them."
	"Thursday, 12th. Very stormy—the rain
has fallen almost incessantly since Tuesday
last. To-day received a letter from Watter-
man Phelps, stating the general news in Nau-
voo, among which was that Wm. Smith and
George A. Adams had arrived there and were
about to organize the church—that John E.
Page and Rufus Beach had joined the Strang-
ites—that Luke Johnson was again received
into the church on Sunday, the 8th—that Col.
Kane was there and was to leave on the 10th
inst—that the ice had got out of the river and
the steamboats were running, etc., etc."
	This was quite a newsy letter, and all these
things were interesting to a people who were
traveling away from their homes, never more to
behold them. But there was no mourning nor
lamentations, we felt too glad to have made our
escape. And the first evening after the warm
sun had dried the earth, the young people
were out dancing by moonlight—determined
upon being happy, or at least to snatch all the
pleasant moments and enjoy them as they came
along. Some of the camp were already pros-
trated with chills and fever in consequence of
want and exposure. It now rained almost in-
cessantly, and Bishop Whitney's daughter, Sar-
ah Ann, was in a critical state part of the time
while there. And Mother Whitney, who
stayed with her daughter, and, like all the rest
was exposed to cold and wet, took the rheuma-
tism, and it settled in her left wrist, which had
been broken the previous winter by jumping
from a buggy when the horse became frigh-
tened one evening as she was returning from
the Temple. She could not be convinced that
it was broken, although the Bishop's father,

[Column 2]
who was a doctor, told her that it was broken,
and that she ought to have a doctor to set it,
he being then too old to attend to it himself.
Her hand and arm commenced to wither away,
and one day while on the journey Father John
Smith called to her tent to see her, and notic-
ing her hand and wrist enquired into the cause
and seemed to feel greatly interested in her be-
half. He called for a bottle of consecrated oil
and administered it with prayer and mighty
faith, and he prophesied that flesh should come
upon that arm and hand, which was literally
fulfilled, though the wrist was out of place.
	Horace continues.—"Richard's Point, where
we are now located, is situated on Chequest
Prairie, and here we are likely to remain for
some time at least, as the roads are almost im-
passable.
	"Friday 13th. The clouds having cleared
away this morning the weather assumes a more
smiling aspect, which, after three days inces-
sant rain, is very acceptable.
	"Saturday 14th. O. P. Rockwell and Ed-
win Cutler started on horseback for Nauvoo to
carry letters. Lyman Whitney and myself
took a short excursion into the country for the
purpose of trading for oxen—returned, hav-
ing partially effected an exchange."
	The weather having continued favorable
there was a fair prospect of our being able to
resume our journey in a day or two, but on the
17th it commenced clouding up, and before
midnight began a slow, drizzly rain, which
continued the remainder of the night, so we re-
mained there till the 19th. The quadrille band
went to Keosauqua on the same day by invita-
tion, to hold another concert. The weather
continued showery till the evening of the 18th,
when it cleared off pleasant. Horace wrote
the same day. "The corpse of Bro. Edwin
Little was brought into camp and interred to-
day. He was taken sick here a few days ago,
and was conveyed into the country in order to
have skillful treatment and to be shielded from
the inclemency of the weather; but notwith-
standing all was done for his relief that human
aid could afford, he died to-day while in the
wagon on the way to the camp. His disease
was the quick consumption. He appeared to
be reconciled to his death, and died in the full
faith of the Gospel."
	"Thursday 19th. This morning about
eleven o'clock struck our tents and proceeded
on our journey.	*	*	The weather
fine, though rather cool—the roads quite
smooth—traveled about twelve miles and
pitched our tents on a small creek which also
bears the name of Chequest, on the land of a
widow—name unknown. We are now travel-
ing through Davis County, which joins Van
Buran County. Brother Kimball's family
and ours are well—Sarah Ann gaining
rapidly."
	"Friday 20th. Our route being chiefly on
the prairie the roads were very bad; crossed
Fox River to-day, traveled fourteen miles and
encamped about four p.m. in the edge of a
small piece of timber—very poor muddy place,
being destitute of a name, consequently gave it
one, viz., Slough of Discontent. The prairie
through which we have been traveling to-day,
and shall for a day or two, is called the "New
Purchase," on the "Fox Divide."
	"Saturday 21st. Started at half past nine,
proceeded eleven miles and encamped on the
edge of the timber about four miles from the
River Chariton." That evening the band over-
took us, and before retiring they played a few
tunes before President Young's tent and
father's. Oh, what dismal days those were!
And the next day was Sunday—cloudy and
disagreeable—as we started in the morning
and crossed the bottom, which intervened be-
tween us and the Chariton River. We had
considerable difficulty in crossing that stream,
on account of the steepness of the descent on

[Column 3]
its banks. After crossing there was a very
bad hill to ascend, and they were obliged to
double teams in both places, besides the assist-
ance of a number of men to hold back, and
push up hill. This labor consumed the great-
er part of the day. We encamped on the top
of the hill in a small piece of timber. How
fresh in my mind are some of those tedions
days of rain, sleet and mud, and sometimes
hunger, for already were our rations poor and
pinched, it being the intention at that time to
cross over the Rocky Mountains the same year.
One important event transpired that dismal
morning, while we were crossing the bottom
between our camping ground and Chariton
River, which was indelibly written upon my
memory. We passed the wagon of Sister Zina
D. H. Young, which had halted upon
the east bank, where she had a beauti-
ful son born, and he was named Chariton. I
have never met that son nor heard his name
without its reminding me of Chariton River,
and the circumstances attending our sojourn
there. The following, written by Sister Zina,
is worthy of a place in our history:
	"I had been told in the temple that I should
acknowledge God even in a miracle in my de-
liverance in woman's hour of trouble, which
honr had now come. We had traveled one
morning abour five miles, when I called for a
halt in our march. There was but one person
with me—Mother Lyman, the aunt of George
A. Smith; and there, on the bank of the Chari-
ton, I was delivered of a fine son. On the
morning of the 23rd Mother Lyman gave me
a cup of coffee and a biscuit. What a luxury
for special remembrance! Occasionally the
wagon had to be stopped, that I might take
breath. Thus I journeyed on. But I did not
mind the hardship of my situation, for my life
had been preserved, and my babe seemed so
beautiful."

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A WORD FROM PROVO.

	Knowing that your interest, dear sisters, is
the same for all parts of God's vineyard, we
will tell you of our welfare.
	The young ladies are just as busy as bees.
They have had a fair this fall, which was suc-
cessful in every particular, and leaving a bal-
ance of $80 (eighty dollars) in the treasury,
which will be given for charitable purposes,
and to assist in the erection of our new Taber-
nacle. The spirit of reform and union that is
growing in the hearts of the Saints is manifest-
ing itself for good. Those who are Saints are
more determined than ever, and those who are
indifferent are getting deeper into the unsafe
mire of neutral ground.
	Our Conference, which has just past, was
about as poor as we ever had, owing to our
President, Jennie Tanner, being away, and our
beloved Sister Taylor not being here, but we
enjoyed ourselves, the few that were together,
and felt encouraged, as we always do after do-
ing our duty.
	Our Primary Associations are in a flourish-
ing condition. We have not held a fair in
Provo this year, but we held a concert, which
was the most successful one ever given in Provo,
clearing $40 (forty dollars) in our treasury, af-
ter paying seven for tithing, five to the Hospit-
al and ten to our Stake Tabernacle and paying
all expenses. The knowledge our little ones
have of music, order and prompt action is of
greater worth to us than all the money made.
	Our Primary Band is now under active
practice, and the boys are coming to the front
for once, proving that they only need a wise
and interesting plan to make them as active as
the girls.
	We read with interest the reports of other
societies and we are trying to keep pace with
them in the cultivation of the youth of Zion


Ever praying for the cause of truth, and for
those who are engaged in it, we will say good-
bye.		ZINA Y. WILLIAMS, President.
		ELENORA HAWS, Secretary.
Provo, Dec. 9th, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MRS. MARY A. LIVERMORE.

	In Melrose, one of the most beautiful of the
suburbs of Boston, Mrs. Livermore lives.
Within and without, a home beautiful with
works of art, with books, with gifts of love,
and souvenirs of foreign travel; with its views
of the clear lake to whose edge the lawn slopes
down; embowered in trees through which you
catch the outlines of purple hills, and more
beautiful in its family relations of love and
sweetness. Just opposite, across the street,
lives Mrs. Livermore's only married daughter,
whose husband is the principal of an impor-
tant Boston school. The pretty grandchilden
run in and out. Seperated by a heavy por-
tiere from her chamber is Mrs. Livermore's
study. On two sides books line the wall from
floor to ceiling. A revolving bookcase that
holds nearly three hundred volumes more
stands near the desk. The most perfect order
prevails. Nothing short of this could prevent
Mrs. Livermore from being utterly swamped
and submerged under the never-ending tide of
accumulation. A two days' absence will de-
posit seventy-five letters on her desk, a large
number of which must pass under her person-
al direction, if not claiming her personal an-
swer. Nothing less than her wonderful direc-
tive power would keep this accumulating ava-
lanche within bounds. Order is heaven's first
law. And it must be the first law of the life
that would enter here into the conditions of
that higher existence, for it is this which holds
the secret of Mary Livermore's youth, her un-
tiring activity, her conservation of energy. It
is that she is living this spiritual life amid
earthly conditions. It is the divine energy that
animates her, the force of a celestial gravita-
tion, the action of spiritual laws. With change
of word we find the secret of her force to be
told by Tennyson in his lines:
	"Her strength is as the strength of ten,
	Because her heart is pure."
	She is the most deeply religious, and yet
tenderly human, of any woman I ever knew.
Her nature is attuned to the keys of celestial
harmonies.
	LILIAN WHITING.
Bostoa Evening Traveler.


"Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony have ar-
rived safely in New, York."
	"Mrs. Grace Beebe, aged 101 years, died at
Plainville Mass., on Monday. Her father built
the old frigate Constitution; and her brother
draughted the vessel's lines."
	"It was a striking coincidence that the New
Northwest' the first journal to advocate equal
rights for all on the Northwest coast, was also
the first to publish to the world the news of the
great equal suffrage victory in Washington—a
result for which it has labored untiringly for
nearly thirteen years."


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Goshen, Utah County, September 24th, 1828,
of typhoid fever, Ann, the beloved wife of Thomas
odds, and daughter of Peter and Jane Richardson. De-
ceased was born in Eggleston, County of Durham,
England, March 20th, 1829.
	She in an early day obeyed the law af Sarah, and was
faithful to her covenants, and died as she had lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT to the memory of our be-
loved sister, Ann Dodds.


Whereas, The Lord has called from our midst by the
hand of death onr beloved sister.
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our be-
loved sister the loss of an able and efficient teacher in
the Relief Society of Goshen Ward.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past faithful labors and
great devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and
highest respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be.
reaved husband and family, in the loss of a kind wife
and affectionate mother.
	Resolved; That these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy of the same be presented to
the bereaved family; also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication.
	ELLISON GOURLEY,
	LOUISA TAYLOR,
	MARY JOHNSON,
		Committee.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Mary
Thomas, who departed this life July 14th, 1883, in
Goshen, Utah County,
	Whereas, An alwise Providence has called from our
midst by the hand of death our beloved sister.
	Resolved, That we recognize, in the death of our sis-
ter, the loss of a worthy member and efficient teacher
of the Relief Society of Goshen Ward.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors as
worthy the fellowship and highest respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of a kind wife and affectionate
mother.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy of the same be presented to
the bereaved family, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, for
publication.	ELLISON GOURLEY,
			LOUISA TAYLOR,
			MARY JOHNSON,
				Committee.


ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.
Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night

For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY-SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 25c per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,	$1.00
'' Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
of the author, bound in morocco, 1.50

MRS.ELLIS R. SHIP, M.D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building: also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting,
Flannels, White Yarn, Wool Batting,
Shawls, Colored Yarns, Brooms,
Linseys, Cassimers, Washboards,
Jeans, Tweeds, Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILLDING
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

﻿ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1863.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	 MENTS,
 CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBROIDERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes
	112,114,116,118 East Temple Street.

HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY. 

FAuerbach & Bro.
A Fall and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMPLE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

