VOL. 12			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1884.				NO. 18


BIRTH-DAY SCRAP,
							---
	OR ANNIVERSARY TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE
				CHARLES W. PENROSE.

				BY ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

	All hail the day!-- the day when mortal.Birth;
	C.W. Penrose introduced to Earth,
	Whose purpose, heart, and brain, are all combined
	To aid the upward progress of mankind
	He's one of those emergencies require,
	When grand events are destined to transpire.

	With inspiration from the Eternal Source,
	In lucid eloquence' magnetic force,
	He pleads the rights of man and woman kind
	With judgment, reason, fact, and truth combined.
	In the illustrious work of God and men
	He plies the strong twin-agents, speech and pen.

	Our friend and brother, may your useful life
	Be full of years-- your years, with blessings rife,
	Long may you live the sword of Truth to wield,
	Till Peace is crowned on Zion's battle-field--
	Live till the pure in heart are unoppressed--
	Yes, live to share the Saints' triumphaut rest,
	Long after Edmuuds Cullom,-- all their bilious crew
	Have doff'd their hats, and made their bow to you,
Lion House, Salt Lake City, Feb. 4th, 1884.


THE TWILIGHT PHENOMENON.

How oft in childhood's happy time,
	Beside the window low,
With baby brother on my lap,
	I watched the twilight glow.

Too soon for lamp or candle light,
	And yet too dark to see
To work or read the twilight was
	A calm, sweet hour for me.

How many bright and hallow'd thoughts;
	My youthful mind would catch,
While watching thus the shadows dim,
	Across the landscape stretch,

While purple, gold and amber clouds
	Adorned the western skies,
The earliest stars would softly peep
	Like smiling infant eyes.

With baby brothers grown to men--
	Now nestling in my arms--
Not mother's babies, but my own,
	Hath nature lost its charms?

Nay! woman's heart and hands and brain,
	Life's duties may employ,
Yet new love teaches her all good,
	More fully to enjoy.

And nature, too, more grandeur wears,
	Befitting well her age;
While in her book of books she writes,
	A long, long promised page.

In eighteen eighty-three and four,
	The twilight hour hath shown
A mystery, which the learned world,
	Gravely pronounced unknown.

Ah! how shall worldly wisdom find
	The things which God hath plan'd,
When only by His Spirit, e'en
	The meek shall understand?

This twilight mystery appears,
	A fire-light rising high;
At times, not only in the west,
	But over all the sky.

The "Day of Burning" doth approach,
	This sign is kindly sent,
To warn the wicked and the proud,
To speedily repent.

All those who watch for Christ to come,
	May see His way prepared,
And lifting up their hearts, rejoice
	These things He hath declared.

Salt Lake City, Jan. 19th, 1884.


SCRIPTURAL TESTIMONY.

	"And they asked Him, saying, Master, but
when shall these things be? and what sign will
there be when these things shall come to pass?
St. Luke, xxi chapter: 7th verse."
10th verse, "Then said He unto them:
nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom
against kingdom."
	11th verse. "And great earthquakes shall
be in divers places, and famines and pestil-
ences: and fearful sights and great signs shall 
there be from heaven, St. Mathew, xxvi
chapter.
	31st verse. "And He shall send His angels
with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall
gather together His elect from the four winds,
from one end of heaven to the other."
	Now it seems by this language in  Holy Writ
that God's people would be gathered out from
all parts of the earth, to prepare themselves
for His  commandments, they were a dis-
tinct people from all others. The ancients
lived in this capacity for many generations.
The children of Israel did not mix with other
people not acknowledged by God as keeping
His laws. He gave them the mark of circum-
cision, that they might be distinguished from
all others, and to this day their tradition clings
closely to them. Yet many times they were
scattered abroad and taken captive by their
enemies, but this was on account of their great
rebellion. They turned away from the true
and living God to worship idols; but when they
turneda way from their sins He forgave them,
and they were a blest people, and lived within
His fold and the Lord was their Shepherd.
But when the good Shepherd came on the
earth and began to call His sheep and gather
them up they would not, neither would they
hear His voice, and He said unto them, St.
Mathew, xxiii chapter, 37th verse, "O, Jerusa-
lem, Jerusalem! thou that killest the prophets,
and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how
often would I have gathered your children to-
gether, even as a hen gathereth her chickens
under her wings, and ye would not."
	The gathering of the people of God has been
understood by them in all ages of the world.
John the Revelator alluded to it in the xviii
chapter, 4th verse. "And I heard another
voice from heaven, saying; come out of her my
people, that ye be not partakers of her sins,
and that ye receive not of her plagues."
	The Savior compared His people to sheep.
He said, "The sheep hear my voice, and the
voice of a stranger they will not follow." This
is a true semblance. The Shepherd has His
sheep within the fold, and the good Shepherd
says,"He leadeth them forth to pleasant pas-
tures."
	The Savior calls the Nephites His other
sheep and it is referred to by Himself in the
x chapter, 16th verse of St. John. "And other
sheep I have which are not of this fold: them,
also must I bring, and they shall hear my
voice, and there shall be one fold and one
Shepherd."
	Now read the Book of Mormon, 3d Nephi, (512
page), 16th and 17th verses. "This much did
the Father command me that I should tell un-
to them. That other sheep I have which are
not of this fold; them, also, must I bring, and
they shall hear my voice, and there shall be
one fold and one Shepherd.
	19th verse. "But verily I say unto you,
that the Father hath commanded me, and I tell
it unto you, that you were separated from
among their's because of their iniquity; there-
fore, it is because of their iniquity that they
know not of you"
	Also those who were led away by the hand
of the Lord into the north country, the same
as those who came to the continent they are
spokenof in the xvi chapter. Speaking of the
other tribes He says: But I have recieved a 
commandment of the Father that I shall go
unto them and that they shall hear my voice,
and shall be numbered among my sheep, that
there may be one fold and one Shepherd; there-
fore I go to show myself unto them."
	With regard to the twelve tribes in their
scattered condition the world is entirely igno-
rant; but the history written of them  in the
Book of Mormon gives us a knowledge of
them, and many other things, which the world
will remain in ignorance of unless they read
its pages and judge for themselves. I advise
everyone to read it; if you have not the book
purchase one and read it through. It is a true
history--this I bear my testimony to. I have
read its pages with great interest and delight,
knowing that it gives an account of the ed
man's origin, before his skin became black, and
after. It is a wonderful book, and the lineage
of its people kept so perfectly from generation
to generation, and also the time to mark events
so minutely kept, makes it the most interest-
ing book of the age. No one can read its pages
without being forcibly convinced of its merit.
Its preservation for so many centuries hid up
in the earth by its last writer, to come forth by
his hand to Joseph Smith to enlighten a dark
and benighted world; and he, Joseph Smith,
being blessed with the gift of translation, made
its pages clear as the noon-day sun, that all
who read may understand and have joy in its
remarkable record. Many would recieve a 
greater light if they would not neglect to read
its inspired pages.
	"Precious treasure, thou art mine,"
	Precious book thou art divine--
	For me to read and meditate,
	And all its joys to contemplate.

	Now it is great folly for men to lose their
lives exploring for the lost tribes: they are not
lost to their Heavenly Father, and in His own
due time He will cause the mountains of ice to
melt down at their presence, and He will lead
them back by His power, the same as He led
them away, for He hath a care and an eye
to all the workmanship of His hands. Our
opponents say, "Why do you do so and so?
Why do not you do as we tell you to? Re-
nounce your religion; take no notice of God's 
word; believe not in revelation, neither in the
gathering; stay where you are, and be one with
us and obey the law of the land." The law
or the new civilization, allows  houses of ill
fame. The Ten Commandments say, "Commit
not adultery." The law, as it is defined for us,
says, separate husband and wife; the Scripture
says, "What God has joined together let no
man put asunder," The law of Senator Ed-
munds, which has been declared constitutional,


takes away the right of franchise without
judge or jury, and the Bible says, “He that
judgeth a matter without hearing it is a fool.”
I have no privilege to vote, and I have broken
no law, my fore-fathers and fore-mothers were
among the first to settle America, and my
father fought in the war of 1812. I have an
independent mind because I was born in a 
land of freedom, and my rights are to believe
in the truth. MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, Jan. 29th, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
			 MISSISSIPPI.
				____

	   BY HELEN BAR WHITNEY.
				____

	The evening of the 12th it clouded up and
rained some during the night.  Just at dusk
came father, Bro. Jedediah Grant, and their
families with others of the camp, with the loud
ge-ha's of teamsters and yells of herdsmen,
driving, unyoking and taking off their teams
and other like noises which brought confusion,
when the charm was broken, and lo, my bliss
had departed.  Next day we had rain and sun-
shine alternately through the day till evening,
when a tremendous cold rain storm came on
and lasted a good part of the night.  Bro.
Grant's tent was blown down in the gale.  Pres-
ident B. Young and company had passed us
that day.  Some of father's men who had been
out trading reached  camp that morning, bring-
ing 10 bushels of meal and 1,000 weight of bacon,
which these pioneers had earned.  Father had
purchased two wagons, and before starting from
Garden Grove our small one was exchanged
for a larger one, and this day they had some
sea biscuits taken out and articles of greater
weight put in to equalize the loads, making the
whole load about 1148 pounds, also another
yoke of oxen was added.  The same day Hor-
ace wrote:  "I fished a little again to-day, caught
a large cat-fish and two or three small ones
called pout."  According to his journal we
started Friday, 15th, and though the weather
was fair found the roads somewhat muddy; af-
ter travelling about five miles we met Bro.
James Smithers and the rest of the band re-
turning from their trading expedition, as also
Bishop Miller, with some of his company, who
had also been out trading—went on about six
miles further and encamped—the sun about an
hour high—on the edge of a ravine	*	*
having made eleven miles to-day.  Bro. Kim-
ball styles it the cream of all the encampments
we have hitherto had, in consequence of the
beautiful "rolling" prairie and the rich verdure
for our cattle that abounds in such plenty
around us.  Saw what is called the "Oregon
trail" to-day.	*	*	Dr. Rich-
ards is encamped with us to-night."
	The next day, according to the record, we
travelled about eleven miles and encamped on
the prairie on a stream which father named
"Crooked Creek."  The morning of the 17th
was cloudy and rained a little.  We travelled
about two and a half miles and found Presi-
dent Youug encamped on a small creek in a
valley. We went on a little way and pitched
our tents on the top of a hill, when father,
Brigham Young, Amasa Lyman, George A.
Smith and one or two others went ahead on
horse back to survey the road, and finding a
good place to camp about three miles ahead,
returned and concluded to go on for fear it
might rain.  We made about five miles that
day.  Bishop Whitney and family overtook us
at the place where we last stopped, and we were
rejoiced to see them.  He had lost some of his
horses and been detained at Garden Grove.
We had felt considerably worried about Moth-
er Whitney's health in consequence of her arm
which was gradually perishing away, and it
pained her so that it affected her whole system,
but we found her getting better and in pretty
good spirits, and also Bro. Joseph C. Kings-
bury, who had been quite sick.  Sister E. B.
Whitney (the present Editor of the Expo-
nent) was the faithful nurse and companion
of Mother Whitney in those troublous times,
and continued to be like a loving daughter to
her until she was laid in her last resting place.
Bro. Solomon Hancock came up the same day
bringing news that there were 200 tents pitched
at Sugar Creek of those that had crossed the
river since our departure.  They were four
weeks from Nauvoo.  Monday morning, 18th,
the brethren had to build a bridge before start-
ing and had to stop and build another in the
afternoon.  We travelled ten miles and en-
camped at evening in a grove on the brow of a
hill—a small bottom intervening between us
and the middle fork of the Grand River, which
abounded in fish, such as sun-fish and cat-fish.
Here we were to remain some time and make
another farm for the saints that were to follow
us.  This was called Mt. Pisgah.
	Horace wrote: "Tuesday, 19th.  This morn-
ing Bro. Wm. King and myself with six yoke
of oxen and one wagon started back to Garden
Grove, to bring up some provisions which we
expected to get of Bro. Yearsley.  Met Lyman
Whitney and Wm. Pitt; after going about ten
miles met Bro. Jacob Hutchison, who was in
search of his horse.  Lyman did not find his,
but went on without him; got to the farm Wed-
nesday about noon.  Bro. Yearsley not at
home—waited for him till Friday, when we
started back—the creeks all high, and some
scarcely fordable—reached home on Monday
evening, accompanied Bro. Markham, Cahoon
and several others—brought back the worth of
President Young's things in his wagon and our
own.	*	*	While we were gone
met a great number of emigrants just from
Nauvoo—some three weeks from there	*	*
in fact they are coming daily as fast as they
can get ready.  Bro. Kimball talks of build-
ing three houses here and Brigham two."
	While they were absent two Indians came
to our camp belonging to the Pottawatomie
tribe, who said they had lost their horses, one
of which had been caught by one of the com-
pany a few days previous—they were glad to
recognize the horse.  They had been sent as
messengers to their station on the west fork,
about fifty miles hence, to make arrangements
about paying for the cultivation of the land—
they returned, bringing word that the chief
himself would come to us and settle the terms
thereof.  Also learned through them that Ly-
man Wight was about one hundred miles
from there, but could not tell the direction.
Here Bishop Whitney's driver (Jacob Frazier)
was very sick, which Horace mentions—also
speaks of two deaths in Bishop Miller's com-
pany—Bro. Wm. Edwards' and Bro. Turley's
child.  He says, "Bro. Wm. Huntington has
been appointed president over those who re-
main here, assisted by Ezra T. Benson and
Charles C. Rich.	*	*	Bro.
Holman was the first man to put a plough into
the ground here, notwithstanding he does not
intend to remain.  Bro. John Taylor has just
returned from Nauvoo—he says that has got
to be a wicked place.  He makes the calcula-
tion that there are about six hundred wagons
on the way between here and Nauvoo—there
are all sorts of reports afloat there respecting
us, such as that we have been mobbed, etc."
	"Tuesday, 26th.  Tolerable fair to-day, built
a yard this after-noon to put our cattle in
nights.  Bro. Wm. Clayton came up this even-
ing—Mother Whitney's arm is getting better;
she has bound on it the skin of a rattlesnake
Bro. George Herring, a Mohawk Indian, ar-
rived here to-day, he having been sent for,
some time since, by the brethren.  He came
from Council Bluffs—says there are a number
of the brethren of Emmet's company waiting
for us at the state line, that some had taken''
jobs of work near a settlement of the Potta-
wattamie Indians, about two thousand in num-
ber; that the Indian agents, by the orders of
the governor of Missouri, are enjoined not to
let any whites stop among them, but more es-
pecially to prohibit the "Mormons" from doing
so, also that they, the Mormons, should not be
suffered to settle this side of the Rocky Moun-
tains.  Bro. Herring also told us that the
United States had declared war against Mexico.
We hail all such things as happy events, be-
cause when the Gentiles are embroiled among
themselves they have less leisure to persecute
the Saints of God."
	This may be considered, by some, an unkind
feeling, but note the orders received by those
agents concerning us, and the unnatural treat-
ment we had received from the hands of our
government, which should have protected and
succored us, but instead had allowed us to be
persecuted, harassed and driven from state to
state, and our men to be imprisoned and many
slain, and also innocent women and children
murdered in cold blood, and a whole people to
be exiled and driven into an almost unknown
wilderness, without the least inquiry or under-
standing of the facts concerning us, and all the
suffering that we were daily enduring in con-
sequence, could they realize this, and how sore-
ly we felt it, and then take it home to them-
selves, they would wonder at our patience, and
that we did not join handswith the poor In-
dians, who would have been too glad—or with
the Mexicans to fight against the nation, who
had driven us out from their midst, hoping as
they did and expecting that we would perish or
be scattered to the four winds, regardless of
our feelings and rights, and had it not been
that our people were true Christians we would
long since have followed our natural instinct,
as others have done, who, though professing so
much more enlightenment, have shown how
much they were lacking in that same spirit of
Christianity, which has ever governed and con-
trolled the Latter-day Saints, of whose inner
lives and faith they know nothing until they are
willing to become, as Jesus said, "Like  little chil-
dren, for of such is the Kingdom of Heaven."
	"Wednesday, 27th," Horace wrote, "on ris-
ing this morning found it raining.		*	*
To-day father presented me with a pistol.	*
Brigham, Heber, father and some others went
on horse back to find a suitable place for cross-
ing the river when they shall start—they re-
turned, having found a place where they in-
tend to build a bridge."
	"Thursday, 28th.  Somewhat cloudy, but no
rain.  One of Bro. Kimball's horses, Prince,
on being found and brought up from the
prairie this morning was discovered to be bit-
ten by a snake.  I went fishing, and found
Clayton at it also; caught quite a number of
sun-fish and pont, etc. * * The brethren here
are busily engaged, some ploughing and putting
corn into the ground, others building fences
and houses, making ploughs and ox yokes, etc.,
while the rest are herding the cattle." * * *
	"Friday, 29th.  Weather pleasant—the
brethren have nearly completed the bridge;
Bro. Brigham chastened the people last Sun-
day at meeting because a great many manifest-
ed a disposition to tie the hands of the Twelve,
as it were, neglecting to put in crops here and
wanting to go ahead, when they have not the
means to do so.  Bro. Brigham gave them the
choice of two things to do; either to fit them-
selves out and go ahead and leave the Twelve
here, or by using their utmost exertion fit out
the Twelve and let them go into the wilderness
and establish the Kingdom.  Bro. Kimball
said if the people chose to have the Twelve
stay here, they, the Twelve, would go into the
foreign countries and preach the Gospel and
raise up a body of people who would be will-
ing to abide by counsel and act as becomes the
Saints of God.			(To be Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO MRS. EMILY SCOTT

		     BY M. J. TANNER.  

There are thoughts, undefined, that arise to the mind
     That language may never impart;
There are hopes, that may bless like a tender caress,
     That ever entwine ’round the heart.

There are joys that have birth mid the flowers of earth,
     And ties that are shadowy still;
And if  ever we seek, for a bliss that’s complete,
     We must search with a heart and a will.

It is not that a strife for the comforts of life
     Our hopes and our energies chill,
It is not that we’ve sighed for a love that's denied,
     A friend that would cherish us still.

But the spirit may yearn, for a light that will burn,
     A goal that we never may win;
While we loose from our clasp, what we gladly would
	     grasp,
     And end where the task should begin.

If around us may shine, round our hearts to entwine
     The tendrils of love and esteem,
Then the bosom would glow with affection, to know
     That life has not gone like a dream.

But how often we’re led by the beacon ahead
     To grasp what we cannot attain; 
And sigh for the light that is shining so bright,
     Ere we sink to our slumbers again.

If the voice could go forth to the weak ones of earth, 
     To raise the down-trod and oppressed,
To comfort the sad, or to make the heart glad,
     We should feel that our labors were blessed.

If a gift that we hold is more precious than gold,
     And we joy in a love that’s divine,
'Tis a boon we would ask, in its favors to bask, 
Where the light of its genius may shine.

And how often a friend true assistance may lend,
     The weary and faint to uphold;
For a word of true love, comes like balm from above,
     And light to our vision unfolds.

Though feeble the light that is shining to-night, 
     I will hold to the task that is given;
And point to the star that is shining afar,
     Guiding to God—and to heaven.


BUCKEYES.
WHICH OF THE TWO SHALL VOTE?
“Well, Bess, I've been at the convention all
day, and I think we've made a ticket that will
suit the people. Our man from here got a good
showing,” said Harry Dyle, as he put on his
slippers and dressing gown and seated himself
comfortably in his arm chair.
"Ah, whom do you mean as the man from
here? I am glad of a good ticket,” said his
wife pleasantly.
"Isaac S-----was nominated for represents
tive.”
“IsaacS------! Harry, Dyle, you did not
surely nominate him !” said Mrs. Dyle with in-
intense scorn. 
“Of course we did, and he will make a good
run, too,” her husband replied, lighting a Cigar.
	“O, constancy, thou art a jewel,” said Mrs.
Dyle, “I think he would make a good run, and
the rest of you men should follow after with a
hop, skip and jump.”
“What the deuce is the matter? her hus-
band asked half provoked.
“If I remember rightly, Harry; a few weeks
ago you were for cleaning out the Mormons,
root and branch, because of their polygamy
and to-day you help nominate for represents
live a man who, right here in Ohio, practices
polygamy, or the next thing to it.” Mrs. Dyle
was becoming earnest.
	"His personal or domestic affairs have, no-
thing to do with him as politician,” said
Harry a little embarrassed. “What is the news;
anything going on here to-day?! he asked, as if
anxious to change the subject. 
“Nothing—only I lost something—some-
thing I prized, too,” Mrs. Dyle answered, turn-
ing aside her face that her husband should not.
see her smile.
“You—you—lost something? Not your watch
or your—” Harry was excited.
“No;” said she, “I lost confidence in my
husband as an upright, constant man. He,
strongly condemns a thing when done con-
scientiously and upholds the same thing if done
sneakingly.”
“Well, Bess, what should I have done? he
was on the ticket; it was not my doing alto-
gether. I don’t approve of Isaac’s way of do-
ing at all, you know,” said Mr. Dyle warmly.
“You were at the Primary meeting when the
ticket was made,” she said sententiously.
“Yes; I was; but I did not care to say any-
thing against a man chosen—”
“Well, I should have done so,” Mrs. Dyle
said. “I should have said out plainly, gentle-
men; the man who is to represent us before the
people of Ohio must be upright, pure, honest.
This man is not, and I will not support him. A
man who is not true to his wife will not be true
to any one; a man who is a sneak in domestic
life will sell his birthright for a mess of pot-
tage, whether that birthright be his party or
his state, and I object to such a representative.
That is what you should have said.”
“Oh, Bess, you draw it too fine; we can’t
stop these evils, so what’s the use of being so
conscientious?” He picked up a paper to read.
"Harry, you said the other day that an army
should be sent to clean those Mormons out.
You would spend thousands of dollars and
thousands of lives to clean out Mormonism—
polygamy, in Utah, while a small root of the
stock is nourished and encouraged, to grow
right here.”
“Oh, Bess, you talk just like a woman; they
never talk with any sense on political subjects;
let's change the subject before we both get, an-
gry. Isaac S______ will make a good enough
Representative; will get the party’s votes on
election day and will help to carry through
any measures proposed by the party,” said Mr
Dyle loftily.
“Your party has prohibition for one plank
in’ its platform—will your representative insist
on it being carried out? Harry, if I am a wo-
man, I have thought and read much on politl-
cal subjects, and I tell you, without wishing to
give offence, that had I the privilege of attend-
ing and assisting at these political primaries I
should use my influence for the perfecting of
our own laws, and their enforcement at home,
and not trouble myself about something away
off in Utah until I could positively know whe-
ther it is evil or not. Cast out first the beam
out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou: see
clearly to pull out the mote that is in ;thy
brother’s eve.”
Her husband was soundly asleep. So she
“picked up the evening paper which dropped
from his hands, and read over the report of the
proceedings of the morning session of the con-
vention.					EMILY SCOTT.


THE SIXTEENTH ANNUAL WASH-
INGTON CONVENTION

OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE
ASSOCIATION

Will be held in Lincoln Hall, Washington, D.
C., March 4th, 5th and 6th, 1884. Public ses-
sions will be held at 2 and 7:30 p.m. on each of
these days, and Executive Sessions, open only
to officers and members of the Association,
will be held daily at 10:30 a.m.
	All State and Local Suffrage Societies are
earnestly requested to send delegates with care-
fully prepared reports of work done, and re-
sults achieved, during the year 1883 in their


respective States; and all persons interested in
the enfranchisement of women, are invited to
attend the convention and participate in its de-
liberations.
	Among the speakers invited to be present
are Matilda Joslyn Gage, Isabella Beecher
Hooker, Rev. Olympia Brown Willis, Phoebe
W. Couzens, Harriette Robinson Shattuck,
Madam Clara Neymann, Belva A. Lockwood,
Mary B. Clay, Sallie Clay Bennett (of Ken-
tucky), Lillie Devereux Blake, Elizabeth
Boynton Harbert and Helen M. Gougar.
	The principal object of this Association,
from its organization, has been to secure to the
women of the several States and Territories na-
tional protection in the Citizens Right to Vote,
through a Sixteenth Amendment to the Na-
tional Constitution.
	The favorable reports of the Special Com-
mittees in both Houses of the 47th Congress,
lead us to hope, from the 48th, the final pas-
sage of the resolution now pending for the
submission to the several State Legislatures of
a proposition to so amend the National Consti-
tution, that it will prohibit the disfranchise-
ment of United States citizens on account of
sex.
	The satisfactory results of unrestricted Suff-
rage for Women in Wyoming Territory, of
School Suffrage in twelve States in the Union,
of Municipal and School Suffrage in England
and Scotland, of both Municipal and Parlia-
mentary Suffrage in the Isle of Man, with the
recent triumph in Washington Territory, the
constant agitation of the Suffrage question in
this country, and in England, and the demands
that women are everywhere making for larger
liberties, are most encouraging signs of the
times, and make this the supreme hour for all
who are interested in the enfranchisement of
women to dedicate their time and their money
to the success of this movement, and by their
generous contributions to strengthen those up-
on whom rests the responsibility of carrying
forward this beneficient reform.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President,
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Vice-Prest. at large,
			Riggs House, Washington, D. C.
	MAY WRIGHT SEWALL, Ch. Ex. Committee,
	405 N. Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis, Ind.
	JANE H. SPOFFOED, Treasurer,
			Riggs House, Washington, D. C.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	"It is understood that the reduction of the
public debt in January will amount to $11,800,
000."

	"The Russian Government has banished no
less than 165,000 persons to Siberia during the
past ten years."

	"The Woman's Journal will henceforth num-
ber among its occasional contributors Louisa M.
Alcott, Mary F. Eastman and Flizabeth Stu-
art Phelps."

	"—Miss Fannie Bloomfield is a Chicago girl
who recently made a musical debut at Venice
as a pianist of extraordinary ability."

	"Will somebody tell us if there is a chaos of-
unrocked cradles, undarned socks and button-
less shirts in Washington Territory—now that
the women vote?"

	"Miss Anthony's address will be, hereafter,
Riggs House, Washington, D. C." Her sister,
who has heretofore kept the Rochester home,
will spend the winter in Washington."

	"Falsehood is in a hurry; it may at any mo-
ment be detected and punished; truth is calm,
serene; its judgment is on high; its King com-
eth out of the chambers of eternity.—Dr Jos-
eph Parker."


140	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $3.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications in
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
ANTI-MORMON MEASURES.

	The bills introduced into the present Congress
for the suppression of Mormonism and utter ex-
tinction of the order of marriage, misnamed
polygamic, are attracting almost universal at-
tention. Men and women, editors and journal-
ists, priests and teachers, who know nothing
scarcely of Mormon doctrine, give opinions on
the subject, and therefore those who do know
and are a quainted with facts bearing upon the
matter, should in justice to themselves and the
cause speak out.
	Mormon women are as well acquainted with
the practical workings of the much talked of
"system" as Mormon men. They have sacri-
ficed as much to help establish the doctrines
which they hold sacred, as their brethren. Can
Congress compel them to give testimony against
those whom they love and revere, as men of
God? It is useless to talk of such a law.
	Have not those who desire to compel women
to testify in court had a fair sample in the case
of Belle Harris, who was arraigned before the
court in Beaver, and when she would not speak
there sent to Salt Lake and twice brought before
the court here, and for the third time refused to
answer. Belle Harris was a young woman only
twenty-one with a babe in her arms, she refused
to tell the court who was the father of her
child, and she preferred to remain in the pene-
tentiary to acting against her own conscience.
There are thousands of "Mormon" women who
have the genuine pluck to do the same thing;
therefore, if this inquisitorial order of things is
to be established and carried out, one of the nec-
essities will be a penetentiary large enough to
hold these persistent, determined, plucky wom-
en and their little children. It will take a few
millions of dollars to carry on these courts and
build and support the prisons and guard houses,
and maintain the courts, etc., and the people of
the United States who are so high-minded that
they cannot allow "Mormonism" to flourish
any longer on American soil, will have to be
taxed to pay the bill.
	Good people, please allow a Mormon woman
to make a suggestion. In New York, Boston,
Philadelphia and Washington, as well as various
other large and flourishing cities, there are vast
numbers of unfortunate, misguided women,
they are poor and friendless, often in the dead
of night they throw their little ones into the
rivers, lakes and canals, and in the frenzy of des-
peration they commit all sorts of crimes; they
are the victims of the seducer and the libertine.
Many of them were once as pure as "the snow,
the beautiful snow"—has Congress any money
to appropriate for houses of refuge for these poor
outcasts, for founding asylums for their illegiti-
mate, helpless babes? Can Congress pass any
laws or enact any measures to prevent the se-

[Column 2]
dueer and the libertine from committing such
crimes, for are men not answerable for the sui-
cides of their victims and the crimes of [--]ticide
and infanticide that are becoming so common?
Does not this dreadful state of things call loudly
for reform? Is there not enough to do to make
clean the inside of the platter before they
stretch away over the Rocky Mountains to
cleanse the outside?
	No wonder the best women of the land are
lending their aid and using their eloquence to
cry against wickedness and abomination brought
about through drunkenness and debauchery; for
the broken hearts, the desolate hearths, the
wretched homes, testify how the demon of crime
is raging in this fair land of America. There
are other evils that demand the attention of
Congress, more subtle and more insidious than
the plural order of marriage, which is plain and
simple and in accordance with Scripture. Then
who are the men who are so exercised over the
sins of the "Mormons?" Are they free from
evil, and can they without blushing cast the
first stone? Are their skirts clear of stain,
their lives blameless, or are any like the man
who refused his daughter shelter or even refuge
in his proud and lofty mansion when he found
her about to become a mother, the victim of a
vile and wicked man, whom he, himself had in-
troduced into his home; this merciless father in
his haugthy ostentation applied to a woman a
known philanthropist to take his daughter and
hide her shame, or he would drive her from his
door, for he would not be dishonored; when
questioned by the lady as to his own innocence
of sin, bowed his head in shame and could not
answer, but vowed angrily he would not submit
to be questioned by a woman, while his burning
face and vehement passion told too well the tale
he would fain have hidden. Yet this inhuman
father swore he would horsewhip his young, del-
icate and beautiful daughter if she would not
leave his roof within a certain period, and her
mother was powerless to help her, unless in-
deed she had gone forth to share her misery and
ruin. This is no idle fiction, but was related to
the writer, with tears and sobs, by one of the
parties to the dreadful transaction.
	Surely the honorable members of the Con-
gress of the United States will never pass with-
out severely criticizing, correcting and modify-
ing such bills as are now before that august
body. Were such to be the case the principles
of our glorious country would be violated, and
the most serious results would certainly follow
such high-handed injustice to a part of the body
politic. One would think that the disfranchise-
ment of the men and women who had ever
been in plural marriage would be sufficient pun-
ishment, even retro-active justice going back to
Nauvoo, and excluding from voting women
who had been widows ever since the death of
Joseph and Hyrum Smith. This is really a
penalty and giving an extreme interpretation of
the Edmund's law; but it is not against plurali-
ty of wives that the war is being waged. That
forms the best pretext for "the liberal party" to
hinge upon; those who have watched the move-
ments of these people know better. There are
certainly some clear-headed, far-seeming men who
will stand up and defend the rights of citizens
of this far-famed land of freedom and religious
liberty, and although there may be some very
strong measures passed against this people dur-
ing the present session, yet the Lord will over-
rule all things for the advancement of His
cause, and the Latter-day Saints have nothing
to fear while they are in the path of duty.
	It is something to the credit of Senator Hoar
that he reports himself adverse to the clause in
the anti-Mormon bill he presented which ex-
cludes women from suffrage, and although the

[Column 3]
bill is a dreadful one as it stands, it seems im-
possible for it to pass in its present form. There
are, we trust, other members who will report
themselves adverse to other portions of the bill.


EDITORIAL NOTES
	On the evening of the 4th of February, a few
of the friends of the Hon. C. W. Penrose, Edi-
tor for Deseret News, Salt Lake City, gathered at
his residence in the 9th Ward to join with his
family in celebrating his birthday. There were
about thirty guests, among them Gen. D. H.
Wells, Bishop Samuel Woolley, Sister E. R.
Snow Smith, Bro. and Sister Horne, Sister Zina
D. H. Young, Bro and Sister Whitney, Bros.
George H. and T. E. Taylor, with their wives,
Drs. Pratt and Barney, and others.
"Only a Girl," was recited by Miss Mattie Horne
in a very feeling and impressive manner.
This young lady has a good voice and an easy,
unaffected style, which is quite pleasing to the
listening.		*		Bro. Penrose responded to
the good feeling and kindly sentiments express-
ed by those who had addressed him in a most
interesting and happy manner.
	During the evening he was presented with a
very pretty, ornamental inkstand, with gold pen
and pencil, and a few words of congratulation
from one of the ladies present. It was a simple
trifle, yet one appropriate from the ladies who
gave it. Bro. Penrose has been accredited with
being the woman suffrage champion in former
legislatures, and in political circles generally. He
made a very able speech in favor of the bill to re
move the word male from the statutes of the
Territory in 1880. A bill which after considera-
ble discussion passed both houses and was lost
because of the Governor refusing his signature.
	Bro. Penrose has been in the Church ever
since he was a boy and has spent much time
upon missions abroad as well as in the home
missionary field, and for many years has been
constantly employed in journalism, in which he
has been eminently successful. He is also well
known as a poet in particular his hymn, "O, ye
mountains high," being a favorite one wherever
the Gospel has found its way. Long may he
live to proclaim the truth and battle against er-
ror with the pen, which in the hand of so gifted
and inspired a writer is far mightier than the
sword.
	THE Unity Club Ball in the theatre on the
evening of the 27th of January was a most de-
lightful affair. President John Taylor and
President George Q. Cannon were both present
and seemed to enjoy the dancing as much as
any of the young folks. The committee were
on the alert to see that everything was in order,
and although no round dancing was permitted,
yet the young folks were as jubilant as possible.
The music was excellent, and although the la-
dies chose partners, it being a leap year party,
we doubt if any gentlemen were alighted who
could be persuaded to dance at all. The club
has been very successful in getting up entertain-
ments, and indeed it has become proverbial that
whatever they undertake is well done; much
credit, however, is due to the able counsel and
suggestions as well as active energy of Gen. H.
B. Clawson who is indispensible and indefatiga-
ble on such occasions.
	The President's Parties. Two of the most
notable social events of the present season have
been the parties for the Bishops given in the So-
cial Hall in this city, Tuesday and Friday even-


ings, February 5 and 8. The first, February 5,
was given on the anniversary of the birth of one
of the first Bishops in the Church, Newel Kim-
ball Whitney, who would, had he been living,
have completed on that day his 89th year.
	These parties were a marked success in every
respect, and the most kindly feeling seemed to
inspire all who participated. The Bishops are a
class of men who deserve recognition and con-
sideration; their labors are arduous and often un-
appreciated, and it is but right to give honor
where honor is due. This courtesy from the
President of the Church will be remembered
hereafter with grateful appreciation.
	The supper, or rather dinner, served on both
these occasions was superb, and the table mag-
nificently laid. Flowers and fruits were artisti-
cally arranged, making the whole appear more
like the banquet of a sunny southern land than
the once desolate, snow-capped Rocky Moun-
tains. Who would have believed even twenty
years ago that fruits and flowers could have or-
namented our tables in the dead of winter. The
dinner itself was delicious. Every dish seemed
seasoned to the taste, and those who served
were most attentive and polite. All was quiet,
orderly, and well arranged. The parties opened
at five with prayer and closed with benediction
at half past eleven.

	"REPRESENTATIVES WOMEN OF DESERET," a
book of 140 pages, is for sale at this office, $1.00
per copy. The book is by Mrs. Augusta Joyce
Crocheron, and contains a sketch of Sister E.
R. Snow Smith, Zina D. H. Young, Phebe
Woodruff, Presendia L. Kimball, M. Isabella
Horne, Hannah T. King, Elmina S. Taylor,
Bathsheba W. Smith, Helen Mar Whitney and
others.

	THE secretaries of the several branches of the
Relief Society in Salt Lake Stake, also the Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primaries are requested to pre-
pare their reports for the quarterly conference of
these societies, which will convene about the
middle of March.

	THE Secretaries of the several Stakes of Zion
of Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations are requested to prepare their var-
ious reports and send to the secretary of the cen-
tral organization of the Relief Society and the
other Associations.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 141


AN INDIGNANT AMERICAN WOMAN.

	I have looked long and earnestly for some one
of the male sex (outside of this Church) who
thinks that a woman is a person and worthy of the
franchise. I said one of the male sex, but I
should not have made such a sweeping assertion,
for there are some honorable exceptions (God
bless them!) to the rule and it has always been
a marvel to me, and, indeed, it passes my com-
prehension how men who profess to be intelli-
gent can be so blind, it looks to me so natural
that woman should be as good and enjoy the
same privileges as men. Why, they are the
mothers of men. The very best of men have
the best of mothers, and some of them are will-
ing to acknowledge that their mothers did them
some good, but the majority of them, one would
think from their tone, had no mothers.
	Now, there is a great deal said about Mormon
men oppressing Mormon women, enslaving
them and a great deal more of that kind of
nonsense, which is to us very amusing, for we
know better, and we know that those who origi-
nate such stories know better, for those same
men (Mormon men) gave us the franchise, and
now those men who would so us such great ser-
vice (in their minds) would like to see it taken
away from us, and yet they love us; have they
not proven their love for us in many ways? Are

Column Break

they not always importuning Congress to do
something in our behalf, if it is only to get
them to pass laws to compel our fathers and
husbands to cast off their plural wives and child-
ren about as they do theirs? They accuse Mor-
mon men of abusing their wives and treating
them like "cattle," when the facts are we have a
great ideal more liberty, and our rights are bet-
ter protected than any other women that we
have any knowledge of. There are Mormon
men, of course, that are no better than other
men, but where this is the case they have neg-
lected their privileges, for the Gospel, as re-
vealed to Joseph Smith, is calculated to make
bad men good, if they will repent of their sins,
and good men better. We expect  them to be
better than other men, and if they live up to
the requirements of the Gospel they will be, else
what is the Gospel for, if not to elevate man-
kind and prepare them to enjoy the society and
dwell in the presence of their Creator, our Hea-
venly Father? Well, if they ever get there I
wonder if they would not feel lonely if there
were no women there, and yet we are not
thought good enought to go to the polls where
they go. Paul said, "the man is not without
the woman, and the woman is not without the
man in the Lord." Now, I should not be sur-
prised to see the wives of those men who so
persistently refuse to grant to women their
rights, turn around after a while when they see
that the Mormon men are the only ones who
are disposed to treat them fairly, and fulfil the
prophecy of Isaiah, recorded in the 4th chapter,
in which he says: "And in that day seven-wom-
men shall take hold of one man, saying, we will
eat our own bread and wear our own apparel,
only let us be called by thy name to take away
our reproach." One would think it had almost
come to be a reproach." One would think it had almost
come to be a reproach to be a woman. It is pit-
iful to see such men placed where they can have
the power to deny people their rights, it seems
to me that they should be confined to a place
where they could do the least harm and that
was better suited to their advanced ideas than
the halls of Congress, or positions of trust in
this great republic of free America, namely, a 
lunatic asylum. Well, perhaps I have said
enough upon this subject, for it is one that is
calculated to raise the blood of '76 to boiling
point if engaged in too freely; and I desire to
keep cool and not exercise myself unnecessari-
ly.								RUTH.
	Feb. 1st., 1884.


[Column 1]
MY EXPERIENCE AND OBSERVATION.

DEAR EDITOR:
	Hardly feeling capable, yet I will endeavor to
write a few lines to our worthy little paper, the
EXPONENT. I have been a subscriber to the EX-
PONENT for about four years, and I can truthful-
ly say I never was so interested in a paper in all
my life; it is highly appreciated in our family,
my husband and I read it with great interest; it
makes me feel good when I observe the interest
our sisters are taking in bearing their testimo-
nies to the truth of this Gospel, and taking such
great interest in our paper. It makes me feel,
dear sisters, that I would like to have a voice
with you, as I know this work is of God and not
of man. This is the first attempt that I have
made for publication, so if I don't do as well as
the rest of my sisters you will excuse me, but I
will write just what the spirit dictates, for I be-
lieve we ought at all times to be dictated by the
Holy Spirit what to say and do. Dear Sisters,
what does our religion teach us? It teaches us
to be honest, pure, virtuous, holy, and every-
thing that will elevate us to a noble life. Then
it pays us, my sisters, to live the lives of true
Latter-day Saints. It pays us to observe the
will of the Lord and keep His commandments,
whereby we will be blessed spiritually and tem-
porally. The Bible says, he that knoweth the
will of the Father and doeth it not shall be beat-
en with many stripes. Then, sisters, let us try
to overcome our weaknesses so that the spirit of
peace and harmony will dwell in our habitations

[Column 2]
and then the sterner sex will be able to over-
come their weaknesses, for the Lord requires a
people that will be humble before Him so that
He can bestow light and knowledge at all times,
and He will grant us the desires of our hearts
and will help us to overcome our weaknesses so
that we will never speak any harsh words or do
any thing that is displeasing in the sight of
God.
	I know there are great blessings to be derived
from paying an honest tithing and paying our
donations for the poor, and in erecting holy tem-
ples to the Lord we are blessed spiritually. This
I can bear a faithful testimony to, for I have
proven it. I think it a great privilege, my sis-
ters, to be living in this great and eventful age,
where we can, by living faithful to our cove-
nants, officiate in those holy temples for the liv-
ing and the dead. I thank the Lord every day
I live for His blessings towards me and my fam-
ily, and as a people for the peace we are en-
joying here in the valleys of the mountains. It
makes my heart ache when I read of the des-
truction and destitution that is going on in the
world. We can see the predictions of the proph-
ets coming to pass more every day we live.
Then this ought to make us live nearer to the
Lord. I think we as a people ought to feel won-
derfully blesses; we ought to more greatly enjoy
our religion here than we did in she old country,
as here we have the President of the Church
and the twelve Apostles to instruct and teach
us the things of God, and if we will only observe
the teachings we receive from time to time I
know that our reward will be sure.
	I feel thankful that I am a member of the
Relief Society of the Second Ward of Logan.
Our worthy president, Sister Ballard, is a faith-
ful, good Latter-day Saint, who, with her coun-
selors, Sister Larsen and Smith, is striving at
all times to teach such things to the sisters as
will build them up, and show them the truths of
life and salvation. We have real good meetings
and the Spirit of the Lord prevails in our midst.
I always feel greatly blessed by attending our
meetings. Of course, at times a mother with
small children is kept at home, especially in the
winter time, when it is not wisdom to expose
our little darlings to the severity of the weath-
er, for the Lord has given them to us to take
care of, and if we do not He will call us to ac-
count for not doing so. I never let work keep
me at home, for I accomplish much more by at-
tending my meetings than I do by staying at
home, for I am blessed spiritually as well as
temporally.
	A few weeks ago we had an annual meeting
in the schoolhouse; we had with us the Presi-
dent of the Stake, Sister Benson, and her two
counselors; had a very interesting meeting, and
I know if we sisters will put into practice the
teachings we received, as I know they are true,
we will be received in the celestial Kingdom,
and dwell with God our Father. I do not give
this information in as a secretary of the Relief
Society, but merely as a member of the society,
as it makes my heart rejoice when I think and
ponder over the goodness of God and the bless-
ings He bestows upon us from day to day, and
He will continue to bestow more upon us if we
will only obey His laws and keep His command-
ments. I know that we as wives and mothers
have a great mission to perform; we can accom-
plish much and do much good in raising our
families in the fear of the Lord; if we will only
be prayerful and faithful; teach our children
how to pray; ask the blessing on the food
in the absence of the father; that when they
are sick they will have no use for doc-
tors, but will call for the administration and
have faith; even faith from little children avail-
eth much; this I have experienced.
	There is a little circumstance that happened a
week or two ago to my little boy that I will re-
late. He will be six years old next month: he
was playing in the yard and fell on a broken
bottle and cut his leg; it was quite a bad cut for
the time, the wound laid open and the flesh hang-
ing out. Of course, mother like, I was fright-
ened; he was crying, but the first words he said
to me were, "Ma, I don't want no doctor to fix
my leg." So I said, what do you want, Charley?
He said he wanted some oil. What oil, I said.
Of course I knew that he meant consecrated oil.
That will make me better. I applied the oil and
in half an hour he was up running around again
I was afraid it would start bleeding again, but
it did not. It was astonishing how it healed.
This shows that he has great faith in the oil and
he will drink the oil like water. I always use
them to it from their infancy, and I know it
does them good. This little circumstance makes


me think more than ever of my b y; and how
thankful we ought to feel to our Heavenly Fa-
ther for our precious jewels, when we can ob-
serve the light and knowledge He bestows upon
them, and will continue so to do if we will only
keep His commandments and strive to teach
our children to do the same. There are many
circumstances that I could relate that have hap-
pened in my own family where the hand of the
Lord has been made manifest wonderfully. One
night I was awakened with my baby burning
with fever; she would not notice me; she was
about 16 months old. My husband got up and
brought two of the Elders to administer to her
with him, for I always believe in the father
taking a part. When they took their hands
from her head she looked up to me and smiled
and said, "me," and then looked around to the
brethren and smiled, as much as to say, I feel
better. She soon got well.
	Oh, sisters, when we have such experience as
this we ought to feel it a pleasure and a great
privilege to serve the Lord with all our might, 
mind and strength; and oh how much we do
need to in this mortal sphere of life, where the 
evil one is always trying to lead us into by and
forbidden paths. There are none of us who feel
better than when we  are walking in the path of
duty, for the path of duty is the path of safety.
And how happy we ought to make our homes,
so that the sweet intercourse of the Holy Spirit
will always be in our habitations, that when we
call for the brethren to administer to any of our
family they will know that our families are uni-
ted and encouraging the Holy Spirit in their
midst, for they will feel the influence while they
are administering, and the results we know will
be good, for the Lord's house is  a house of order,
and not a house of confusion; so says the Bible.
And we want to make ourselves as near like the
Lord as possible. A wife or wives living in har-
mony and being united with the husband and
the husband with them the children will be the 
same, and they will be able to do much good
and accomplish much. Their homes will be al-
ways cheerful, and any spare time the husband
has after his day's labor is done he will always
find comfort at home, he will never seek for
other places to pass his time, but he will ever
feel it a pleasure to be at home with his family.
I know that if a wife loves her husband she will 
make home as cheerful and pleasant as possible.
We have only once to live a lifetime, and it
pays us better to live it properly and prepare
ourselves to live happy in the world that is to
come by living happy together; we can live our
religion better; we can live nearer to God, for
one will help the other; we will be able to ob-
serve all His laws and keep all His command-
ments, for union is strength; if either of us have
any faults, which we all have, let us point them
out to each other in kindness and meekness, for
a kind word will never die, and it will take bet-
ter effect. Let us not speak harshly to each
other, by doing this we will be able to observe
that we are taking interest in each other and
working for each other's benefit. Our children
will also partake of the same influence and they
will be more united.
	Well, my dear sisters, I hope we will be
prayerful, obedient, be true to our covenants,
and be able to discern the good spirit from the
bad--attend to all our duties and live the lives
of true Latter-day Saints, that when we have 
finished our career here upon the earth we will
be brought back and dwell in the celestial king-
dom with God our Father.
	This is my earnest desire. From your sister
in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints,			EMMA J. BLUMMEL.
	Logan, Feb. 14th, 1884.


142	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[1st column]

		A REFUTATION.
	The attempts of Mrs. Angie Newman to rep-
resent, or rather, misrepresent the state of Mor-
mon society in Utah to the ladies of Cincinnati,
produced a great wave of disgust and indigna-
tion in the breast of at least one of the women
whom she so vilely scandalized, and were it
not for the fact that many unthinking people,
who have had no opportunity to learn of us as
we really are, might be led to take her very
unreliable information for the truth and be
grossly deceived thereby, the accounts of her
labors would produce from me no more than a
contemptuous smile-- but in simple justice to
myself and the thousands of pure, virtuous,
and noble women whose reputation she has

[2nd column]
sought to drag down into the deepest mire, I
feel justified in giving expression to my own
views and experiences of a Mormon plural wife.
	Had Mrs. Newman been as wise and cunning
as she has proven herself to be vicious and un-
principled she would have chosen subjects more
hidden in their nature, for those upon which
she sought to enlighten the public mind are
most easy of investigation, and thousands of
Gentiles who have been most kindly and hos-
pitably entertained in Mormon homes, can tes-
tify that her statements are as false as they are
wilful. Many writers whose reputation for ve-
racity is quite as well established as that of
Mrs. Newman have treated upon affairs in
Utah in positive coutradiction to all her "reli-
able information"--they were people of normal
brains and clear judgment, and were not
swayed by prejudice and, while holding no
sympathy with our religious views and under-
standing not the principles which gave birth
and nourished the wonderful structure of Mor-
monism, still they were honest and brave
enough to acknowledge that a marvelous work
and a wonder really existed, and were just
enough to seek information from the firm sup-
porters of the system which they aimed to rep-
resent. They did not rely upon the idle stories
told in the street, nor seek the views of apos-
tates whose light had become darkness, and
Gentiles who were here to make money and
knew nothing about our principles and cared
less; they knew that our virtues were not to be
learned from our enemies, and our people hon-
or and respect the true gentlemen and ladies
who have spoken the truth about them. It is
strange that the would be popular and notori-
our lecturerer with all her investigations did not
discover, that many of the investigations did not
discover, that many of the apostates were
among the wealthiest of the community, and
have remained here for years unmolested; there
is not the slightest necessity for their remain-
ing here unless they desire to do so; the Mor-
mons do not prevent them from fleeing to
climes more congenial; as for the poor of this
class, their reported cries of fear and prayers
for deliverance would long since have ceased
to howl through the land had some of the
would be philauthropists tried as hard to liber-
ate those who wished to escape as they have
tried to persecute those who wished to remain.
	The fact is, that Gentiles and apostates know
that they are safer here than they would be in
any other part of self-righteous Christendom, but
they are not as free to introduce their unright-
eous practices and establish saloons, gambling
hells, and houses of prostitution and assigna-
tion-- hence they feel in bondage and many
of them leave the country. As for woman's
bondage and galling chains, they never existed
only in the depraved imagination. I was born
and raised among this people; yes, reared in a
home where prayers ascended from the family
altar night and morning, and where an atmos-
phere of care and tenderness pervaded and
bound together the family circle. I have been
free to think and act upon my own agency--
have attended worship in the Sabbath schools
and churches of the various denominations,
and have read much of the Christian literature
published in the world; have mingled in Gen-
tile society and have had opportunities of mar-
riage where I could have been rescued from
Mormon influences and supposed bondage and
degradation, but I chose to follow  dictates
of my own conscience and adhere to those
principles which I knew to be revealed from
heaven; and while I of my own free will and
choice accepted the state of a plural wife, be-
lieved by the world to be the most appalling 
condition of woe and wretchedness in which a
woman can exist--I declare that all the sorrow
that has crushed and blighted my life is the
fruits of Gentile influence.
	My early childhood's home was bright
and happy until a demon clothed in

[column 3]

Gentile garb, schooled in all the subtle
arts and fascinations of Gentile principles
entered and cast his poisonous, withering
breath upon the scene. Stealthily he
sowed the seed of discontent, his oily, decep-
tive tongue pictured a home of ease and wealth
beyond the poverty of the newly settled desert;
his sweetly whispered compliments sought their
way through woman's vanity to woman's heart,
encouraged by the first sign of attention he ea-
gerly pursued his victim, day by day weaving
a snare of temptations hard to resist, till, oh
fatal weakness! the wife and mother forgot her
holiest truth, and urged on by irresistible pow-
ers of persuasion, she fled from Utah with her
vile deciever, and finally, destroyer. The vil-
lian married his victim, but he who ruins an-
other man's home will never find happiness in
his own. A sad and pitiful storu was soon
told. Less than three years of bitter anguish
and remorse, unavaling repentance and man's
cruelty, taunts and neglect, laid the broken
heart of a young, talented, but misguided,
Mormon wife in a lone grave, far away from
all that was dearest and best on earth. this
was the price of freedom offered by one, bitter
against the Latter-day Saints, and plural mar-
riage in particular. This is the plan advised
by the prominent missionaries who seek to lib-
erate the wives of daughters of this people.
	Not long since a circumstance came under
my notice which forced me to exclaim, as I
many times have done before, than God I'm
a plural wife! A young girl of Mormon par-
entage was wooed and wo by  respectable
appearing and self styled single yonng man,
hailing from the west. All appeared fair and
bright, the young wife felt that her life long
happiness was secured, and looked hopefully
and trustingly into the future. One child
was born, and soon afterward the husband
went to a distance to obtain employment--one
year passed and no news came from the man
who had vowed eternal devotion--then came
authentic word that he had decieved and led
to the altar another bride. Closely following
thi news, came that of a deserted wife and
family in the east. Letters of inquiry were
written, and in  came letters from wife
number one, with heart-rending details of cruel
desertion and suffering, long years of watching,
waiting and anxiety, only to learn of man's
heartlessness and treachery; and the eye that
could have witnessed the agony of wife num-
ber two as she rocked herself to and fro,
clutching the unmistakable proofs of the vil-
liany of him who had deliberately made her an
illegal wife and branded her child in the eyes
of man as illegitimate, could never again look
 upon a plural wife with pity. No, it is 
not the wives and children of the Latter-day 
Saints who need pity, there are thousands of
others who are the victims of men's deception
and cruelty in this glorious land of America,
who are suffering for sympathy and sustenance.
And I would respectfully suggest to Mrs. New-
man that she devote the energies of her phil-
anthropic soul in raising means to support the
wives and educate the children of the unprin-
cipled men who have come to this terrirtory and
either married only to abandon or deceive and
ruined many a trusting woman who might
have found happiness and honor but for their 
vile influence. There are many such victims
scattered throughout Utah, and if Mrs. New-
man saw any sorrowful, dejected looking wom-
en and neglected children they must have been
that class, for the Mormons are proud to ac-
knowledge, educate and treat with care and
tenderness their own wives and children, and
considering the magnitude of such a responsi-
bility more could not reasonably be  required
of them.
	Will some of the energetic Christian mission-
aries search out and keep these unfortunates?
If so they will find a wide field for usefulness.


and their sympathy will not he misapplied. In
conclusion I will add that I have had years of
experience in plural marriage and do solemnly
testify that I have been so happy and content-
ed with my husband and his kind, affectionate
family that I have never once seen a suitable
moment for regret, but some will ask, Are
there not trials in that order? Certainly there
are, and are there not trials in monogamy?
Ask the records of the divorce courts. Why
not petition Congress to abolish all systems of
marriage because people have suffered in it?
The exercise of evil passions, selfishness, jeal-
ousy, envy, and malice, will cause troubles in
every condition ol life—where the weaknesses
of humanity are allowed to predominate sor-
row follows. There is no greater field for the
exercise of all that is pure, noble and divine in
woman’s nature, and the truer the woman the
more happiness she will see in that order. Aside
from all reasonable arguments of a physical
nature (and there are many in its favor) we
know that God has again spoken from the
heavens and commanded His children to obey
that law. We accept this knowledge in our
faith, consequently there cannot be any com-
pulsion. Woman is perfectly free to make
her choice of a husband and when she does so
understandingly and prefers some honorable,
virtuous protector, even though he has other
wives, has she not the right guaranteed by our
glorious Constitution to life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness? Congress says we shall
find these treasures as it dictates our own con-
science, shall not dictate, but God has spoken;
we have heeded His voice and look to Him
for protection.		A MORMON WIFE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 143


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have had a desire for some time to write a
few lines for your valuable paper, as I feel in-
terested in the youth of Zion, being President
of the Young Ladies’ Association of this
place. I feel it my duty, and consider it an
honor to teach and instruct my young sisters
in the principles pertaining to their welfare
and advancement in the Kingdom of our
Father. When we consider our condition as a
people, and the many blessings we enjoy, we
have all reason to rejoice, and we ought to
thank the Lord every day that we live, that we
have apostles and prophets in our midst to
teach us His mind and will concerning us as a
people. We ought to serve the Lord more
faithfully in the future than we have in the
past. I feel that we have been too careless
about our duties as true daughters of Zion. I
fear we do not value our privileges as we might,
The Mutual Improvements Associations are
doing a great deal of good; they are the means
of stirring us up to a sense of our duties. The
Lord has promised if we will be faithful in the
discharge of our duties, and humble ourselves
before Him, He will overule all things for the
good of His people.
	The whole nation, seems to be plotting
against us as a people. In the halls of Con-
gress, in the pulpit and in secret combinations,
though we need not fear them if we live up to
our privileges and the requirements of the
Gospel. This Church has been persecuted
from the very first. They have slain the Proph-
et and Patriarch, and expelled the Saints from
the States; yet the work of God does not cease.
Jesus says, "Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for
great is your reward in heaven, for so persecu-
ted they the Saints and all the holy prophets
that were before you." If we live our religion
with uprightness before the Lord we will have
nothing to fear, for the Lord has power to take
care of His own. We read that He says He
will have a tried people, even as gold tried
seven times by fire. This special legislation

[Column 2]
and secret combinations ought to have the ten
dency of making us live nearer to the Lord, for
He has promised if we will draw near to Him
He will draw near unto us.
	Our little town is somewhat isolated, though
we look forward to our quarterly conference
with the anticipation of having a good time.
I feel interested in the welfare of Zion, and
wish to raise my voice in the defence of this
great work.
	Our association has been organized three
years the 9th of last December; there has been
a vast improvement since that time. We are
writing a small paper, which is read once a
month in our meeting. We hold our meetings
every Tuesday evening, which are well attend-
ed, and we have a good time. Not wishing to
be tiresome I will close, with kind wishes and
success to the EXPONENT.
					SUSANNAH HEINER.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Grantsville is seldom heard from—the rea-
son is probably because note-worthy incidents
seldom occur here. It is a quiet, cheerful re-
ligious, temperate, industrious, little place.
There is nothing note-worthy in these adjec-
tives in this fast age. By the way, we are
famed for our hospitality.
	We have had a pleasant time during the holi-
days, with theatres, concerts, lectures and balls.
Auxiliary in making our town pleasant is our
music, instrumental and vocal; we are blessed
to an unusual degree in that respect. We had
a pleasant "Thanksgiving social festival" in
the Social Hall a few days since, gotten up in
quite a commendable style by our pleasure-lov-
ing community. Music by the orchestra band,
also other instrumental music; songs, speeches,
recitations, essays and anecdotes, interspersed
with dancing, which is not so popular as in
days of yore, as the people seem to be cultivat-
ing the head more, than the feet now-a-days.
Supper in the meeting house—having table-
room and accommodation to seat 216 at once.
On the following day we had a children’s picnic
party; 400 children participated in the dance,
and partook of the good things. The whole
affair was indeed enjoyable.
	Round dancing is discarded entirely, very
much in opposition to the inclinations of the
young people, who submit quite gracefully and
quietly to it, as it is the wish of the authorities
to do so. Owing to the mild, open winter our
Sabbath School, Primary and other meetings
are very well attended, also the day schools.
There has been a Methodist School started here;
it not being very well attended, in time probab-
ly they will be frozen out.
	The health of the people is good. A good
spirit universally predominates, and all glides
along prosperously and delightfully.
								R. C. W.
	Grantsville, Jan. 20th, 1884.

BLUFF CITY, Jan. 9th, 1884.

DEAR EDITOR:
	In answer to yours of Nov. 30th we wish to say
we were very pleased to hear from you in con-
nection with Sister E. R. S. Smith, also to find
that we are not entirely forgotten in this far off
country, as we have almost thought sometimes.
Not hearing anything in the Exponent con-
cerning the Relief Society in this part; there-
fore we are pleased to get a few words of
counsel and instruction from you.
	It will be almost beyond our expectations to
have the pleasure of seeing any of the sisters
from head-quarters visit us here, as we are so
isolated that had it not been for the Deseret
News and our excellent little paper, the Ex-
ponent, we should almost fancy ourselves sep-
arated from the Church, but, however, we feel
like attending to our duties as best we can, and
as a rule union prevails in our midst, and all
are trying to do their part, as we wish our

[Column 3]
name in every good cause. You of course
know nearly our circumstances in hearing that
we are comparatively a poor people, and most-
ly young, but we are not forgotten by our
Heavenly Father, as we are blessed with
health and strength in our midst. We hope
we shall not have to send any patients to that
excellent institution the Hospital. We sent
two quilts, there one year ago last conference.
However, we feel like doing all we can in do-
nating for the Hospital, for we think it will
prove a great blessing to us as a people.
	We all join in sending our best wishes to
those who are interested in the welfare of Zion.
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
 		JANE M. WALTON, President,
		IRENE U. HASKELL, Secretary.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	ST. JOHNS, Apache Co. Arizona, Jan 1884.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	I believe it is a long time since you have
heard from the sisters in this far away part of
the land. I think we are endeavoring to do the
best we can considering the circumstances
which surround us.
	Sister Lucinda Richey, President of our So-
ciety, is a good, kind, motherly woman, ever
on hand to  good in a quiet way. Our So-
ciety gave a social picnic party in the Assembly
Hall, on the evening of the 18th ult, which
was a complete success; all who participated en-
joyed themselves immensely. It was especially
planned for the enjoyment of the aged and
those who did not care much about dancing, as
there were other amusements, including sing-
ing, recitations, etc; altogether it proved to be
one of the most enjoyable events of the season,
owing to the untiring efforts and zeal of our
efficient committee, viz., Sisters Ella Udall,
Helena Jenson, Eliza Tenney and Emma Pat-
terson.
	Our Primary is progressing under the able
management of Sister July Bingham, who la-
bors unceasingly, in its interest; she, with the
help of her assistants, is doing a good work
among the children. They are preparing to
give an entertainment at the end of this quar-
ter. The Young Ladies’Association is also
well managed and prosperous.
	The Ladies Quarterly Conference of this
stake convened in this place on the—of
December, presided over by our Stake Presi-
dent, Sister Emma Smith, upon which occas-
sion we received much  good instruction from
President Jesse N. Smith, and others of the
leading brethren of the stake, as well as many
of the sisters, and we felt well paid for meeting
together.
	With best wishes for the continued success
of the EXPONENT, I subscribe myself,
	Yours truly.						K.


DIVERSITY OF THOUGHT AND
EDUCATION.

	It is a generally accepted idea that women
do not, can not, think as deeply as men. Some
people aver that it is because they have (more
especially a few years past) been educated to
think differently, or rather for their education
to consist of another class of studies.
It is only lately they have been permitted to
attend universities and colleges, they have gen-
erally studied the common branches of educa-
tion, music, language, and some fancy work,
even drawing and painting only being indulged
in by a few; but now that they commonly study
botany, physiology, chemistry and many other
of the higher branches in the high schools,
and so many graduate, it will certainly have a
tendency to make us think more deeply, and
in time we may be credited with scientific dis-


coveries which without this new departure
would undoubtedly belong to those who for so
long have enjoyed these honors.
	It is said that some women are better letter
writers than some men, but that the best lady
writers are only second to the best gentlemen.
Though there are many female novelists  none
enjoy an equal reputation with Dickens, Byron
and Lytton. Mrs. Cross "George Elliot" was
considered the finest lady writer in England.
	In poetry we are again in the shade, and as
artists, historians and composers we see no la-
die's names coupled with those of Landseer,
Macaulay and Handel.
	The business colleges now attended by so
many females are proving very advantageous,
as many clerks and reporters have graduated,
and are employed, and their services equally
valued with those of the men.
	Joan of Arc, Florence Nightingale, Jenny
Lind, Mrs. Hemans, Eliza Cook, Mrs. Cross,
and Jane Taylor, are a few of the names cele-
brated for their natural talents, heroism and
humanity.			ANN FELLOWS.


144	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MANTI ITEMS.

	At the commencement of another cycle of
time we desire to inform our favorite organ
that we are still living and endeavoring to live
the lives of Latter-day Saints, and that the
Manti North Ward Relief Society is up and
doing deeds of kindness—like He who suffered
on the cross—let their good works testify.
	We desire to congratulate our dear President,
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, on the attainment
of her eightieth natal day, and we pray for
many more happy returns of the same.
	The year that has just closed has brought
joy to many, sorrow, chastening and bereave-
ment to some, but peace, contentment, and a
feeling of security to all who are seeking "First
the Kingdom of God and its righteousness,"
we trust that 1884 will bring much joy to the
bereaved and chastened, inasmuch as they try
with true resignation to say, "Father, thy will
be done."
	Those who are in trouble find a father, bene-
factor and comforter in our Bishop; a mother,
sister and sympathizer in our beloved president,
Sister Rebecca Wareham, and the members of
the R.S. President J. B. Maiben deserves a
rich share of our gratitude, for his kindly
words of counsel, comfort and ready assistance
in trouble; always encouraging and reminding
us of the good and great things we are des-
tined to accomplish; and indeed all Manti
seems to be trying to out do each other in be-
nevolence, kindness and good deeds.
	The year 1883 will show a bright record, for
our Relief Society; may 1884 continue in the
same path of peace, kindness and benevolence
is the prayer of				A RECIPIENT.
	January, 1884.


The Poland bill, introduced into Congress
this week, proposes an oath to be administered
in Utah and Idaho, that will exclude all mem-
bers of this Church. How any man dare in-
troduce such a bill, disfranchising men and wo-
men for belief, is a mystery. It is the extreme
of extreme measures.


A bow long bent at last waxeth weak.

"A good cause makes a stout heart and a
strong arm."

	"Let us shower the House Judiciary Commit-
tee with letters, postals and petitions demand-
ing recognition at the hands of the law. Give
these men to understand that we are "people,"
and that this must be a government of the peo-
ple, for the people and by the people."--Ex.


OBITUARY

	Died, at Hyde Park, Jan. 14th 1884, of typhoid fever,
Sarah Elizabeth, daughter of John A. and Mary
Woolf. Deceased was born Nov. 24th, 1867. At the or-
ganization of the Primary Associatoin she was appoint-
ed Treasurer; has since been Assistant Secretary, and at
the time of her death was Secretary. She was also an
active member of the Young Ladies Association. In all
things she gave promise of a noble, useful womanhood.
The following tribute of respect and love was read
at her funeral.
	We, the Primary Association of Hyde Park, desire to
offer a tribute to the memory of Sadie, our beloved Sec-
retary and dear sister, whom our Heavenly Father in
His great wisdom has seen fit to call unto Himself.
We can say in all sincerity that she was beloved and,
respected by us all, and all who had the pleasure of her
acquaintance.
	She was always faithful to her duties, ever ready to
assist, and anxious to learn the principles of the Gos-
pel.
	We would offer to her parents our sincere sympathy
and say while we mourn the loss of a dear sister, we
shall look forward with joy to the time when we shall
meet the dear departed in that land where all tears are
wiped away.
	We pray God our Heavenly Father to bless and com-
fort those who mourn and give unto them the sweet
peace which the Gospel affords and help them to realize
that although their daughter has ceased to labor here
she has gone to continue her work in a higher sphere.

To say that we mourn our sister
	Is useless, for all who know her
Dear Sadie, as  friend and companion,
	Feel stricken by this sad blow,
But we cannot question our Father's will
	Knowing He knows what's best,
And knowing in love He chastens
	E'en the ones that He loves best.
When we've reached teh great,"hereafter,"
	When consigned to an early tomb;
And we'll soon cease our battle with sorrow,
	For all are near that bright shore,
Where we'll meet our lost and loved ones,
	To have them through life ever more.
		MRS. AMELIA KIRLY, Prest.,
		MRS. J. M. Peterson,
		MRS. HARRIET WOOLF, Counselors
And members of the Hyde Park Primary Association.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c,
POEMS, by E. R. Snow. Vol. 1,		-		$1,00
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, 11th Ward, No. 34; Seventh
East Street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PRovo WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT. M. D.
OFFICE IN GOBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOOD.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


[Handwritten "Hannah Hall"]

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

