VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANURAY 1, 1884.	NO. 15.


[Column 1]

MEDITATIONS OF THE NEW YEAR.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

The clock strikes twelve! another year is gone!
Yes, passed and gone into eternity
As stars sink into space, as morning
The mind runs back into the moonlit past
As natural as it draws the light of life—
Runs down the vista of recorded time
Our steps meandering have traveled o'er;
The voices and the music float again
Over the retrospective ear of love;
Filial, parental, and fraternal love.
Our ear is quicken'd, and those glorious chimes,
That erst rang in the new auspicious morn,
Burst vividly from out this page of memory,
In tongues inspiriting with life and joy.

We stand upon a gentle eminence;
Our eye—the eye of mind feels strained	zing—
Gazing back into the far off past.
We try to crowd the past into a thought,
A retrospective thought, and live it o'er
Again—but the brain grows dizzy, refusing
To embody it—but memory rises up,
And by its mystic aid I note the
Sunny spots—the sunlight still upon them;
And the flowers of memory still cast
Their perfume, e'en to where I stand to-day,
With all the mystical associations
That flowers—like music—ever bring.

Yonder—a long way off, I see as 'twere
A speck—of almost my infantine days,
Guarded and tended by the eyes of love,
The voice of wisdom, and the hand of care.
And yonder, far away, I see the dark
And gloomy spots I traveled o'er in days
Long past—e'en in my childhood's hour—long ago
How they broke my heart, yea, shook my brain,
And left me like a stranded bark upon
Life's dark and turbid waters, and I see,
E'en where I stand, the spot where it was staid.
I seem to hear a voice that said, "Be still—
No more contend to mix thy waters with
The sweet and sparkling river of her life."
And there its waves were stay'd, and still they stay;
And on I pressed, and worked my heart and brain
To make some flowers spring beneath my feet.
I can see the little altars—childlike—
That I raised—where'er I went I had a shrine;
The earth my hassock; in the sky was God,
The Temple of my worship and my love!
Praying for light, for happiness and peace,
Struggling upward to my soul's desire,
Thro' the chaotic mass of childish ignorance;
Thus I retrace my youthful course of life,
On, and on, till maturity was gained,
And peace and satisfaction were attained.

Again I look, and lo! a mighty change
Evolves—that changes all my course of life!
I see the pathway broken up and rough,
And pitfalls all around that fright my soul,
And gazing still, a mighty sea I cross,
With all its storms and tempests overhead;
And then a range of mountains we must cross,
But flowers, and birds, and nature's beauties
Spring around the path interminable.
Thus we travel on for days and weeks, yea, months,
With many "ills that flesh is heir to,"
And bitter sorrow, language never tells
Enough, that death closes up that scene for aye.
Like one of old I cried, "Lord, save; I perish."
My heart and brain in mercy hold; I'M THINE,
My Father, for time and all eternity—
I dedicate myself, my all, to Thee!
Accept, release, and send me peace, thy peace
The world can never give or take away.
It came, softly, calmly, certainly it came,
Came distilling like the morning dew—
The sun effulgent rose—and I was saved! 

[Column 2]

Sweet peace came back, and threw her downy mantle
O'er me, never more again to leave me quite.
Clouds may flit above my head, around my path,
But never can I suffer as in days
Now past among the things that were for aye;
I still am human—still may err unwisely,
Yes, still in full may lack the attributes
That make indeed a Saint of God complete;
But still the sweet assurance has been given
That struggling on the vict'ry I shall win,
If calmly, bravely—struggling to the end.

Life is a mystery! and thick the veil
That hides the spiritual from the actual,
A cranny now and then emits a glimpse
Of glories, which e'en imagination
Fails to grasp and rivet on the human brain.
'Tis like a twinkling vision of the eye,
Evanescent—startling—thrilling—and is gone.


[Column 1]

A DAUGHTER OF THE PATRIOTS.

Dear Editor.
	In reading the 15th of November number of
the EXPONENT I must say with you, that the
time has come when to remain silent would be
an "ignominious reproach," let us therefore
bring Truth into the field to grapple with
Falsehood, "and throw down the gauntlet in
defense of our own honor," in the defense of 
our homes, our chastity, and our liberty; in the
defense of our children's rights, born under the
bright flag of liberty, the ensigin of freedom to
all nations, as the haven of rest for the op-
pressed of all countries. What was it that in-
stigated the Fathers of our Country to revolt
against the rule of England? Was it to ag-
grandize themselves, to gain conquests, to gain
territory, to place crowns upon their heads?
No, it was to throw off the yoke of bondage, to 
burst the fetters of slavery, and to stand on
God's earth free men; free to think, free to act,
(as long as they did not infringe on the rights
of others) with their souls untrammeled, their
consciences free to worship God in their own
way, to establish laws for their own best inter-
est, independent of the whole world. For this
they bled, for this they died. This was the
spirit and intent of the men who framed the
Constitution of America. Then shall men, be-
ing influenced by the clamor of those eager for
spoil, drag out the foundations and undermine
the structure of liberty, and destroy what has
cost so much of life and treasure to establish?
Then what means the stringent measures
which have been enforced by the commission,
or by what right has a commission been ap-
pointed? What have we done that we should
be treated as enemies? What law have we
broken? Are we not a law-abiding people?
Have we not (being qualified) asked to be ad-
mitted into the great family of States, present-
ing a Republican form of government? Have
we not sufficient population? Are we not an in
dustrious people, and an honest people? Have
we not built up a desert and made it "to blos-
som as the rose," built towns, cities, railroads,
schoolhouses; and do we not encourage educa-
tion, advancement, enterprise and honesty?
And have we not facilities for a self-sustain-
ing community? Yes; and more, we are a
God-fearing people. Then what is the matter?
Oh, you believe in plural marriage, and claim
you have the right, but we have decreed its
downfall, and you must and shall submit, or
we will go behind the law and institute some-
thing similar to the old law of the Inquisition.
President Arthur says, "It is useless to attack

[Column 2]

it with anything but the strongest weapons."
Well may we say that Justice and Equity has
fled from the land.
	It is the duty of the President of this grand
republic to deal impartially with the people
nnder his supervision. I am led to draw a dif-
ferent conclusion from the tenor of his mes-
sage, as in the case of Alaska he exhibits a
fatherly care for their rights, and recommends
measures for their protection, but in the rec- 
ommendation for Utah he manifests the oppo-
site spirit, almost a tyrant, seeking to deprive
a whole community of their natural born
rights, making them slaves to opinions formed
without knowledge. The President has no
right or authority to assume absolute control
of the affairs of Congress without limitation;
he has no right to interfere with the personal
rights of the people without judicial trial.
Where can he point out a law in the Constitu-
tion giving him the right? Even a President
is limited in his powers when he attempts to
pervert the law; what part of the Constitution
of the United States is it that affirms the in-
capacity of a majority in any given locality of
having the right to control its own affairs?
The Constitution gives the people absolute pow-
er over their own domestic arrangements, and
who has the right to take it away? Who gave
them the right to send our avowed enemies to
rule over us without our consent? And must
we submit? Is there not a God in heaven
whose arm is strong enough in the defense of
the oppressed? When the Saints were driven
from their homes in the States into
a howling wilderness in the winter, 
who in all this great nation held forth
a helping hand to protect them? Even
the widow, the fatherless, the aged and infirm?
None. What did the nation say, "Your cause
is just but we can do nothing for you," but we
will take all your able bodied men to fight our
battles; you must help yourselves, which we
did, the Lord helping us; He blessed His peo-
ple and led them to this land which then be-
longed to Mexico. What did the people do,
did they raise the flag of Mexico and revolt
against the government? No, they did not.
They proudly unfurled the stars and stripes,
and planted the ensign of freedom in this
mountain retreat, and on their bended knees
thanked God for this haven of rest; vowed to
defend it with their lives, their all. Then to
secure good order in their new country they
proceeded to create a government which was 
Republican in all its parts, and being no law in
the United States with regard to marriage (only
what is called in England, the common law)
which was, that every State or Territory should
regulate its own marriage laws, therefore they
felt at liberty to marry according to the law
and will of the Lord, which they had a right
to do, and claim that the celestial law is a ten-
et of our religion, and a matter of conscience 
between us and our God, and that no nation,
no Congress, no legislature, no man has the
right to curtail us in this matter, as it is ex-
pressly forbidden in the Constitution to make
expose facto laws; we believe it right to sustain
the laws of the land, but we do not believe
that men have the right to bind men's souls.
	In reading the News I came across some
clippings from Henry Ward Beecher,in which
he says, "Its ignoble origin must not lead us to
despise it; it is one of the great forces of mod-
ern society." What does he mean? Does he
mean that because Joseph Smith was of hum-


[Column1]
ble birth, that the origin of Mormonism is ig-
noble? Where have our great statesmen, our
great inventors, our reformers and our great
nation come from, was it not from men of hum-
ble birth and origin? Men who were not
afraid to work with their hands, their hearts,
and their brains? Has not our nation made
itself great by the bone and sinew of the work-
ing class? Are not the working class God's no-
blemen? Mr. Beecher shows his lack of
knowledge when he says, "the emigrants that
come here are all ignorant, and that the wom-
en here don't want a multitude of wives around
them." Who told him the sentiments and
wants of the ladies of Utah? At least the
women here have the good sense to know what
their rights are, and intend to use every legal
means in their power, with wisdom, to maintain
them, and one thing they have learned is this,
to mind their own business.
	I also read with disgust the clippings from
Mrs. Newman's address. How dare she make
the assertion, "that every house in Utah is a﻿
house of prostitution,  that there is no love,
care, or tenderness; that our children are love-
less, deformed and a blank," or "that we have
no homes, only kennels for reproduction?" How
dare she say that we are in bondage soul and
body? We defy the world to produce a more
free, happy, or chaste people. A people that
are bound together by the bonds of true affec-
tion and love. We defy them to produce a
more healthy, upright, intelligent, or perfectly
formed lot of ohildren, no blanks. We teach
them ourselves, by the help of God our Hea-
venly Father, the principles of life, of health,
of purity; we teach them to avoid the evils of
the world, and to keep themselves from con
tamination with the evil practices of the world-
We need no help from our enemies. We po-
litely invite the missionary society to use the
money collected for children nearer home, as
we have plenty and don't need it. We spurn
all such help. We depend on God our Hea-
venly Father in the noble work of raising our
children in the fear and admonition of the
Lord. We have confidence in our husbands;
we know them to be men of God, and that
they hold the holy Preisthood of God, and we
do not cover broken hearts under sealskin
sacques, or take opium or liquor to keep us
from going mad. We know that the Lord has
commanded His people to obey the law of ce-
lestial marriage; and we obey it because we
love it, not because we are forced to. It has
been given to raise up a righteous seed unto
the Lord. We know that our husbands are
honest in their obedience to this law, and that
they provide for their families as honorable
men. The world do not comprehend our mo-
tives, but we know they are pure, and the
Lord will be our judge. It can be proved by
Holy Writ that God approved this practice in
olden times, and shall we raise our puny arm
against God. The Lord delights in the chasti-
ty of women, and so do His servants. Chasti-
ty is the germ of true nobility, and imparts a
dignity to the character of every man and
woman who possesses it. It is a precious gem,
and there is no people on the earth who appre-
ciate it more than the people of Utah. We
have a holy horror of the crimes of adultery
and licentiousness, and we have the greatest
ambition to keep ourselves pure, both in body
and mind, and also honest in thought,
word, deed, and to keep free from the evils of
the world. We feel it our duty to defend
ourselves, our religion, and our rights, and let
the world know that our standpoint is truth,
honor, purity, chastity and integrity. We be-
lieve in God, and that He will hold us ac-
countable. In Him we trust. Let us as
Saints live so near unto God that we may have
His approbation from day to day, and His
Spirit to guide us in our every day life.
	I hail with delight the arrival of the EXPO-

			[Column 2]
NENT, and thank God that we have such able
women to defend our rights as those that con-
tribute to its columns.
	Praying for the advancement of the King-
dom of God, I remain your sister in the Gos-
pel of Christ,			SARAH A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HAVE WE CHARITY?
  I cannot blame the world for the view they
take of the order of celestial marriage.  With
the spirit of the world how dreadful would be its
consequences.  St. Paul says the carnal mind is
not subject to the will of God, neither indeed
can be.  Accordingly envy, hatred, and malice
must be the result.  With this spirit they may
well fear to marry even one wife.  Being of dif-
ferent temperaments and differently educated
there is danger of giving offence at any time
besides those who live for pleasure would be
taxed with too many burdens to enjoy a life of
ease and comfort.  Looking at this side of the
question how foolish to marry at all.  I think
they have forgotten, or they do not wish to
know what our Savior says upon the subject,
that is, "The man is not without the woman,
or the woman without the man, in the Lord."
We are not perfect, nor can we attain to perfec-
tion without each other.  The spirit of the Gos-
pel being opposite to the spirit of the world.
This spirit brings faith, hope and charity, com-
bined with purity of purpose and sincerity of
heart.  With these virtues the burdens of a
family would be a pleasure, because prompted
by the right motive.  The Lord judges by the
motives and intents of the heart, which are all
known to Him, because He knows what spirit
we are in possession of.  All spirits are known
to Him.  I believe that every one of the evil
spirits had access to our Savior at the time He
fasted forty days and forty nights.  Then He ob-
tained power over them all, because He did not
yield to their promptings.  He did not command
those stones to become bread, or cast Himself
from the pinnacle of the Temple.  He knew
those evil spirits from that time henceforth; and
He knows when we cherish them in our bosoms.
We are told that God made us in His own im-
age; do we not then possess a germ of the Deity
within our hearts; consequently little children
are fit for the Kingdom of God, as the Savior
said they were; accordingly they deserve to have
righteous parents, those who fear to offend an
all wise Father, yea, even the Creator of all
things, for by Him they are and were created,
and a commandment given to progress as He
had designed they should.  Why then do they
who take the opposite course expect the blessing
of God our Father to attend their efforts.  Do
they deserve it?  Do they deserve to be honored
and beloved in their declining years by a God-
fearing posterity; for such children would fear
to offend their earthly parents.  I believe they
honor and respect us even as we honor and love
the laws of God.  They may be tempted and
led from the straight and narrow path for a sea-
son, but by the earnest prayers of their parents
they will see their folly and return at the some fu-
ture time.  If we learn by contrast they will do
the same.  But you ask, is it wisdom to raise a
posterity when you cannot properly educate and
clothe them?  This is well thought of.  But this
is not all they need.  A good moral and relig-
ious training will do more for them even though
they are poor, because with this they will be
lovers of intelligence and, with it, will see the
propriety of developing their abilities, and will
make a proper use of their talents and time.
How many can you find who labored with their
own hands for their support and saved money
to attend school, where they have received prac-
tical education which made them useful mem-
bers of society.  Is not Benjamin Franklin one
of this class?  He progressed until he received a
diploma as Master of Arts.  He had a common
education, it is true, yet he considered him e f a
self-mace man as to science,the higher advance-
ment, How many people have I known who
have gone with a few others to some remote
valley and settled there; rearing good families
who hardly had time to devote three months in
the year to book learning, yet in learning from
observation they could not be surpassed.  But
those people were a righteous people, who feared
God and observed His laws; those who remem-
bered the words of the Savior; "He who hear-
eth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I
will liken him to the man who built his house
upon a rock, etc.  And the rains descended and
the floods cams and the winds blew and beat
npon that house, and it fell not, bscanse it was
founded upon a rock. While those who take
the opposite course were compared to the man
who built his house upon the sand. I have
learned by observation that there are people who
come to these valleys full of faith, and seem to
be full ef intelligence, as to worldly objects; they
are active and energetic, etc but as soon as
they begin to prosper in temporal things they
have no time to pray oreven to ask a blessing
upon their food. Allis business, business, nn-
til they can accomplish their purpose. By this
time they have lost the spirit of thanking the
Lord for blessings, but take credit of their own
abilities, and proceed in their own strength.
Finally conclude to spend their time in looking
at the faults of others, not thinking of their
own (for we all have some weak point in enr na-
tures which if not guarded will cause us to
Stumble, or become a stumbling block to some
one else). I would ask, what kind of families
would such people raise? For we are told that
he who cannot govern self is not fit to govern
others. There is a large percentage of that class
however. How many I cannot tell.
 Our Savior compared the Kingdom of heaven
to ten virgins, five were wise and five were fool-
ish. The foolish said unto the wise give ua of
your oil for onr lamps have gone out. Accord-
ingly they went to sleep In a cold state, and
awoke in the same condition. For it seems that
both the wise and foolish slept. But those who
had the oil were easily lighted. So also with
the Saints, those who live according to the rules
our Savior has given to all the human family
will possess a portion of Hla Spirit even in pro-
portion to the rules they live by. This light and.,
intelligence will fill their minds with the true
light which St. John speaks of. He saya.lt light-
eth every one who cometh into the world.
But this Is not all: for it teaches us to be self-sec-
rifloing people. “If a man compel thee to go a
mile, go twain; If he smite thee on the cheek
turn the other also. Bless them who persecute
you; bless and curse not.” Tula is called the
higher law. None but noble,mind can condes-
cend to do this. And why do they? Beoauee
they know that those who persecute are foolish
virgins, they have not the oil the Savior spoko
of. Yet there will be a people who must obey
the higher Jaw to prepare the way for the second,
coming of our Savior to the earth.
 Such a people can live In that holy order
known as plural marriage. They can love their
neighbors as themselves, and deal out even-
handed justice to all. They may fiot live as
perfectly as they ought to-day-—but It will be
done in peifeotion sometime.
 Not only be, but we will have a kingdom of
peace, where none shall molest or make us
afraid. And the time spoken of by the prophets,
raying that “he who will not take up his sword
against his neighbor must needs flee to Zion for
safely.” This will be the result of the sacrifices
we are making to-day. 'Nor do wo make these
sacrifices in vain. This will produce a pure state
of society. A pure love, which is not the cold,
sordid love of worldly gain. No, we will reach
a higher mood, a noblerestimate of man. Be
earnest in the search for good, anu speak of all.
the best we can. This Is the faith of
M. E. Kimball."


Minnesota sends to Congress this year the
first Scandinavian ever elected to the national
legislature. His name is Kanute Neilson, and
he represents a race of men who are fast gain-
ing prominence in the politics of the North-
west.
	An illiterate man who was violently de-
nouncing the presumption of women in asking
for the ballot, was asked by an intelligent lady
where he derived the right to settle the matter.
"What right,"said she, "has any man in just-
ice to say we ladies shall or shall not vote?
You have the power, but whence did it come?
Is it an inherent right of man, or is it an usur-
pation and an assumption of a privilege that
really belongs to all? What right have you to
say to me that I shall not exercise a privilege
that you enjoy, especially when I have a large,
property and you have none? You have the
power to vote a tax upon my property, and I
have no power to defend myself. Is it right?
Is it just?" The logic of the lady set us think-
ing.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


THE YEAR THAT'S GONE.

It has passed away to the other side
Of life's swift river's rolling tide,
With its cargo of smiles and bitter tears,
Of joyous hopes and trembling fears.

It has passed away and the freight has placed
Where the names of its owners are clearly traced,
Shall we blush to own it, oh, pause and think,
It awaits our coming; time's ships ne'er sink.

It has passed away, and, brothers dear,
What have ye sent with the bygone year?
Were deeds of honor and mercy thine,
Does charity's mantle thy stores entwine?

It has passed away, and, sisters mine,
What have we sent on the wings of time,
What have we stored in the harbor wide
On the other side of time's swift tide?

It has passed away, did it bear false pride
And vanity on to the other side,
With selfish deeds and slander vile
That turns to tears the angel's smile?

It has passed away, and we welcome now
The new born year with song and vow,
Of faith received and friendship strong—
May they remain while time flies on.

It has passed away, oh! may we strive
Our treasures to send that they may arrive
On eternity's shore and await us there
To encircle our brows with laurels fair.

	HOPE.


TO MARY J. TANNER

Lay not aside your harp, dear friend,
Its musical air waves afar,
Trem'lous with its low, sweet sound,
And other sad hearts stir
To nobler purpose, truer love.
If there's no bay for you now,
Yet angels, in their home above,
Weave a garland for your brow.

The poet merged in the woman, yes
A true poet still, I ween,
While a dear woman's tenderness
In the poetry sweet is seen.
And the light that was just ahead
Is reflected bright afar,
Lighting a path for others to tread,
Aye, the light of a guiding star.

A morning star for youth's glad spring,
To pilot a voyage of life;
A beacon light to the wayfaring,
Seen above sin and strife.
Your heart is heavy with life's great care,
Cherished hopes shattered and lost;
But should one crush a diamond rare,
He would treasure the diamond dust.

Those fragments of hope may brightly shine,
Like atoms of diamond dust,
When you have reached the hand divine,
And given to others a trust.
Then lay not aside your harp, dear friend,
Tho' you travel down life's hill,
'Twill cheer you on to your journey's end,
And vibrate for others still.
EMILY SCOTT.


"NOTHING LOST."
	As we look around us in the laboratory of
nature, we find that motion is one of the gov-
erning laws of the Universe; we see it in the
shaking of an aspen leaf, the trembling of a
dewdrop, or the swelling of an ocean. Motion
involves change, and this change is made man-
ifest in the most subtle movements.  The silent
dropping of water wears away the hardest
rock; the water itself is converted into vapor
which rises to form the clouds; these condense,
and in the form of rain percolate the soil
filter through the everlasting hills, return to
the original condition, pure, cold water, com-
pletes the cycle, yet nothing has been lost.
	Again we see this change in the erosion of
the grand old mountains by the wind, the rain
and the frost.  Here chiseling the rock into
grotesque forms of architecture, reminding one
of the old castles in the days of chivalry, with
parapet and gable, and moss-grown tower—
yonder hurling the sand with such force
against the stony masses that the sharp angles
of the particles cut like myriads of diamond
points, carving their way through the bulwark
of rock, leaving the dolomite standing like
giant sentinels guarding the pass to the "En-
chanted Valley"—the form is changed, but no-
thing is lost.
	Then we see the furrowing of the plains by
the rivers as they sweep irresistibly onward to
the ocean, carrying in their embrace the mate-
rial for new continents, and the ocean ceaseless-
ly lashing its rock-bound coast gradually en-
croaches upon the land, moulding its beach in-
to varied forms of beauty.  The mighty reefs
that have taken the little coral insects thou-
sands of years to build, the roaring cataract,
the deep, dark caverns with their colossal col-
umns of solid masonry, all containing the ac-
cumulated strength of ages, yet all are subject
to change.
	If we enter the domain of the vegetable
kingdom, we find organization and disorgani-
ation constantly taking place.  The building
up of inorganic matter into organic com-
pounds, which after aggregating and arriving
at maturity, bear seed, and by the process of
decay return to the elements from which they
were elaborated.  The solid particles sink to
the earth that cradled them, while the volatile
matters escape into the great atmospheric res
ervoir from which they were drawn—the cycle
is complete—nothing is lost.
	In the life of man, says Draper, there is no
going back;  the morose old veteran cannot re-
turn to the genial confidence of early man-
hood, the youth cannot return to the idle and
useless occupations of boyhood, even the boy is
parted by a long step from the innocent credu-
lity of the nursery.  The course of man is
progressive, yet he should not accept the de-
ception that all that he does is determined by
his own volition, for at the close of our days
we learn how great is the illusion, and that we
have been swimming and struggling in a
stream which in spite of all our voluntary mo-
tions has silently and resistlessly borne us to a 
predetermined shore—a shore we all must 
reach; but this is not the end—all is not lost.
	Man may well stand appalled when he sheds
the last bitter tear over some departed loved
one, if he contemplate only upon the havoc
relentless nature will so soon make upon the 
hallowed form before him; that perhaps in
years to come some sturdy oak will sink its
rootlets into the earth and take up all that re-
mains of the one he cherished.  This is true
transmigration of matter, but not of soul. The
casket from which the glittering gem is gone
is consigned to the cold embrace of earth, and
although the casket itself yields to the irrevo-
cable decree of decay and dissolution, its or-
ganic compounds resolving themselves into the
inorganic constituents from which they were
eleborated, all moulding into apparent nothing-
ness—yet nothing is lost.
	To the materialist who looks upon man as a
creature who lives and moves and has his being
upon this planet, and at last wraps his drapery
around him and lies down, not to "pleasant
dreams," but to dream no more, how insignifi-
cant the end must appear, and what a mockery
is life.  Then would the Cyreniac's theory of
happiness be the one to accept, that of the idea
of pleasure being the chief aim in life, but
anon the end cometh, which to the materialist
is annihilation.  Ah! but 'tis not so, the soul,
the intangible is preserved, no corrupting influ-
ence it to affect, no corrosive agent to destroy,
freed from its mortal clay, it wings its way to
its God, there to await and obey His man-
dates.
	Man can discover the eternal in the van-
ishing of present events, and through the
shadows of time.  Contend as he may that all
is lost when this life ceases, but when the "last
bitter hour comes," his physical powers weak-
ened and exhausted can no longer control the
strong spirit which yearns for its better home.
It was this that caused one of the greatest athe-
lists while upon his death bed to exclaim, "Oh
God! if there be a God, accept my sould if I
have a soul!"
	When we contemplate upon the influence of
man, we find that it does not perish with the
individual, but may be felt through all coming
time.  The divine influence of Christ has come
down through the centuries, and has been a
balm to thousands of human hearts; the truths
that were discovered by the ancients exert
their influence upon the world to-day, they
are just as potent now as they were then; the
teachings imparted at a mother's knee have guid-
ed men to the highest pinnacle of honor and re-
nown; words of purity and love emanating from
honest hearts have been the guiding star to
thousands who without them would have been
wrecked on the quicksands of life; a little
psalm inspired ages ago has come singing down
through the centuries, and has been a beacon
light to myriads of storm-tossed mariners.
	The good that men do is never lost, but ra-
diates from them and imbues with its benign
influence all that comes within its sphere, just
as heat radiates from the solar centre and gives
warmth to the surrounding media.  The good
and the evil that men do is not "interred with
their bones," and the evil also had its sphere of
dissemination, contaminating all who partake
of its influence. Would that the grave could
as effectually cover up the crimes of men as it
does their wasted tabernacles; but 'tis not so,
the wrong remains as a witness to condemn
the oracle that sent it forth.  "It needs be that
evil comes, but woe unto them by whom it
comes." Woe unto those who attempt to mar
the fair face of truth, crush the innocent, and
with the dark drawn dagger of the mind
"drink deep the crimson current of the heart,"
dark is the record they leave behind them,
dark will be the hour of reckoning.
	Truth is the principle that men should most
seek after, for it is eternal, and he who finds it
and shows it to the world has accomplished a
work that can never be lost.
	"Go seek for the truth, 'tis the brightest prize
	To which mortals or Gods can aspire;
	Go search in the depths where it glittering lies,
	Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies,
	'Tis an aim for the noblest desire."

	Nations rise and fall, empires are only sand-
hilss in the hour glass of time, they crumble
spontaneously away by the process of their own
growth," but their influence is not lost, that
which is good remains through all coming time,
and aids in guiding the destinies of nations
that are to follow.
	Man should come to the conclusion that his
chief concern is with himself, that his influ-
ence in this world is not lost, but lives after
him to exalt or to condemn. "Thou wast alone
at the time of thy birth; thou wilt be alone at 
the moment of death; alone thou must answer
at the bar of the Eternal Judge."
							"ISIS."


There are few signs in the soul's state more
alarming than that of religious indifference;
that is, the spirit of thinking all religions
equally true, the real meaning of which is,
that all religions are equally false.—F. W.
Robertson.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a.m. to 
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 1, 1884.


THE NEW YEAR, 1881.

	A Happy New Year to all our friends and pat-
rons, and may it be a prosperous one indeed.
Utah has good prospects if things can take their
legitimate course. The great fuss being made
all over the world and through the pulpit and
press will do no real harm, if no more positive
adverse legislation is pushed—but men, anxious
to obtain power and influence, are busy with
divers schemes and plots to undermine and des-
troy that which more than thirty years of hard
and constant toll has built up. Should these
politicians and demagogues succeed in their
wicked machinations to bring down persecution
upon the "Mormons" again, it would only mill-
tate against them, for disgrace and punishment
ever follows with relentless hand those who
seek to build themselves upon the ruin of others.
It is no less true of peoples than individuals.
Where are those who bitterly persecuted the
Saints in Missouri and Illinois? Have they rid-
den to popularity on this "Mormon" hobby
they are so fond of parading before the public?
No, emphatically no. They have gradually sunk
into insignificance, or have died ignominious
deaths, so sure does retribution follow those who
seek to exalt themselves by crying others down.
Utah deserves prosperity, the labors of her peo-
ple have been worthy of such a result, worthy
of statehood, but it remains with Congress to
prove how far they will comply with the inter-
ceedings of the majority, and secnre to the citi-
zens of this growing Territory the rights and 
privileges accorded under the flag of American
freedom.
	However, there is great hope that the new 
year may bring peace and plenty, and that Utah
may continue to be in the future still prosper-
ous, her homes still happy, her people following
out the great and grand principles that have
been advocated and taught by wise men and
patriots in all ages.
	And hoping and believing all will work to-
gether for good to those who serve God and work
righteousness, we again most heartily wish all a
happy new year.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE holiday number of the Contributor con-
tains some very interesting articles. Elder Geo.
Reynolds' papers, upon the Book of Mormon,
are calculated to educate our young people in
the Book of Mormon literature. This is a result
ardently to be desired, for heretofore this won-
derful book has been more or less neglected.
Bro. Reynolds' articles are so smoothly and
pleasantly written that the subjects treated up-
on will awaken a new interest for the young.
	"Angela," the prize story, by Augusta Joyce

[Column 2]

Crocheron, is thrillingly rich in pathos and ten-
derness. The language is choice and poetical,
and the incidents of the story prettily woven to-
gether with the golden thread of love on the
swift-flying shuttle of thought in the hands of
a tasteful and artistic weaver of the various col-
orings that blend harmoniously in the mantle
that falls gracefully over the actual and gives
it the perfection of an ideal picture.
	The second best story, by Homespun, is given
in the young author's happy style, and is really
worthy the place it occupies. Homespun is
traveling rapidly up the hill of literary merit
and getting honors by the wayside.
	The poem, "A Christmas Idyl," is the gem of
the magazine; it embodies two pictures, artistic-
ally drawn in outline and beautifully elaborated,
as well as delicately embellished. In fact the
sublime theme the author has chosen seems
most ably handled by inspirational genius. No
loftier subject could have been selected, and
every word seems to fit in its proper place as
harmoniously as a strain of heavenly music.
	One cannot read the Idyl without feeling a
sort of solemnity and grandeur in his own soul.
Such poetry is exalting in its nature, and we
congratulate the young Bishop on his success,
and trust he may yet reach the realization of
his most ardent aspirations as a poet and an
author, in elaborating the wonderful themes
with which Mormonism so richly abounds.
	MISS KATE FIELD will deliver her popular
and interesting lecture, entiltled "An Evening
With Dickens," in the Social Hall, in this city,
on Monday evening, January 7th, for the bene-
fit of the Deseret Hospital. We had the pleas-
ure of hearing the lady on this subject when
she first came to Salt Lake, and know whereof
we speak. All the admirers of this celebrated
man's writings should hear Miss Field; who was
a personal friend of his, and makes the audience
feel as though they could almost see Dickens
himself. The lecture is for a benovelent pur-
pose and should be well attended on that ac-
count, as this is the season to bless and succor
the poor and unfortunate, and at the beginning
of a new year it is fitting to be kindly and gen-
erous. We hope to see the hall crowded.
	Miss Field is not only an author, a lecturer
and a humorist, but has good dramatic ability.
She brought out her play in London some years
ago, which was very highly spoken of by the
English paper; it was styled "Extremes Meet."
Her books are very interesting, "Ten Days in
Spain," "Hap Hazard" or "Travels in America
and Europe," "Pen Photographs of Charles
Dickens "and Charles A. Fecheter, or "Life of an
Actor," his Hamlet in Europe and America,
etc., are some of her works.
	Miss Field is also a practical business woman
and noted for her talent in this direction, which
is rather unusual for an author. She was one of
the first to help introduce the Telephone into
England, did the literary part of the work, and
is one of the original stock holders in the firm.
	JAMES DWYER ESQ has for sale the North
American Review containing, an article by
Prest. John Taylor, followed by one from.
Gov. Murray, each representing his views on the
situation of Utah at the present time, etc. The
articles are placed in contrast as they are pub-
lished, and it would seem that every lover of
patriotism, of truth and justice, should be able
to judge which is true and which is hollow as
well as false. Get the magazine and read both
opinions.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN'S OPINION.

	If the o'er prudish portion of eastern society,
who claim to be in such awful jeopardy lest they
should be polluted by a few "Mormons" away

[Column 2]
out here in Utah, who persist in believing and
practicing the patriarchal order of marriage, and
whose corrupt tastes and imaginations cause
them to think evil where there is no evil, could
realize that they also live in glass houses, and
that we are daily posted concerning the rotten
condition of their own social circles, in which
move the very ones that cry the loudest against
us, and desire so much to "solve the polygamy
problem," would but stop and look matters and
things square in the face, and let reason rule,
they might very quickly solve it.
	There are greater problems than the plural
wife system, of which they would do well to
seek a solution. First, practice the "Mormon"
creed, "Mind your own business," then study
how you may best cleanse the inside of the plat-
ter, then there is no danger but the outside will
be clean also. Gather up the low, ignorant
masses of wretched humanity that have been
so long allowed to exist and increase in their
midst. Yes, in the very heart of our boasted
and enlightened nation, which professes so
much, but has done so little in the way of true
benevolence, or even common mercy, we real-
ly think it would be more Christianlike to com-
mence there instead of working up a wicked
crusade against a handful of inoffensive people,
who mind nobody's business but their own; and
even the conversion of heathens afar off might
be left till a few of those in their own midst
were saved. As Uncle Sam has great wealth at
his command, would it not be commendable in
him to render more assistance toward this good
work, instead of leaving it all for these "Mor-
mons" to do? taking their lives in their hands
and going without purse or scrip, as the Savior
commanded, some having already been killed
by those ignorant people, for proclaim
ing the truth to them. And the
same will apply to other nations where
our Elders have been traveling to pro-
claim free salvation to the Gentiles, and to gath-
er out the poor and the maimed, and the halt
aud the blind, as Jesus said they should do, that
His table may be filled. We have been given
to understand what to expect from the rich,
who made all manner of excuses, as they could
not spare the time. "Therefore," said Jesus,
"none of those men that were bidden shall taste
of my supper. If any man come to me, and
hate not his father and his mother, and wife and
children, and brethren and sisters, yea, and his
own life, also, he cannot be my disciple." Thou-
sands of that class will seek admission when it is
too late. There will also be found those who have
not on the wedding garment, but they will
be cast out into outer darkness, where they will
be weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth.
The common cry about the ignorant scum who
gather up to these mountains from the different
nations, shows that they understand not the
Scriptures, nor do they desire to, for they have
hardened their hearts against them, just as Jes-
us predicted, and they do not see the marvelous
work that is being accomplished by the Al-
mighty, right in the very midst of them. This
is the greatest and the grandest mission that
has ever been given to a people, and like every
good work of this kind, it must be performed by
the few that are ready and willing to labor un-
der the the counsel and direction of inspired
men, who will not vary from the principles and
the rules marked ont by our Savior, but are
ready to take their lives in their hands to
go and proclaim His Gospel to a wick-
ed and untoward generation—waiting till
He thinks fit to reward them. "Many
are called but few are chosen;" which words will
apply to this people as well as to any other.
Those of the more favored are expected to teach
the poor and the ignorant classes, who have
lacked the opportunities, how they may al-


so become free, self-supporting and independent
citizens, instead of keeping them down as they
have been in their own countries, where they
could not own an inch of ground, and knew no-
thing, only to earn their daily pittance, and even
then they had scarcely enough to keep soul and
body together, and they might have lived and
died in that condition had they not heard the
Latter-day Gospel, which has power to save
all who will come under its banner; and we know
that if they keep the commandments of God
they will be enabled, in time, to arrive at the
true standard of excellence, and will, in their
turn, become also saviors upon Mount Zion.
	Thousands, who have  gathered to these val-
leys, will to day testify that they are realizing
these blessings.  The Lord has said that "the
wisdom of the wise shall perish." And we are
witnessing proofs of it daily, even in the Execu-
tive of this nation, who accepts the false testi-
monies and exaggerated tales, gotten up by
our enemies for nothing but a political pur-
pose, which is as plain to our understanding as
A B C. Our delectable Governor says, "A man
must be on the ground to understand the ques-
tion." So we should think; but what about the
Governor absenting himself from his post for
months at a time, (though heaven knows we
have no earthly use for him). "Enjoying the
repose and comforts of a New York hotel, etc,
etc., doing his best trying to work up a 
spirit of hostility against the "Mormons." I
think that none of the old settlers of Utah could
be found saying that "the earth yields forth
fruits by little labor; the more fertile spots in the
United States are found in the hands of the
Mormon Church, etc., etc." If the soft and
kid gloved hands of his Excellency, and a few
others of the same clique, had been hardened
with honest toil as have those of the "Mormon"
pioneer's, who, by their patient industry and
zeal, made habitable these same "fertile spots,"
they might be better able to judge, if not more
willing to tell the truth concerning Utah and
its founders, instead of making idiots of them-
selves, and venting their spleen upon the "Mor-
mons," thinking to gain more power aud popu-
larity by so doing; but they will go down as sure
as there is a God in heaven, just as others have
done, who have sought to infringe upon our
rights, and the disappointment of such we know
will be sufficient torment.
				   HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


THE WIDOW'S MITE

	THE WIDOW'S MITE ASSISTS TO BUILD THE
			LOGAN TEMPLE
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The subject of the Logan Temple is ever a
pleasing one to the Saints, especially is it so to
those of this Temple District, who have so gen-
erously given of their means and their labor to-
wards its erection, and as it approaches comple-
tion the greatness of the undertaking appears
more apparent, as also the magnitude of its cost.
	The total donations, as reported at our last
Quarterly Conference, showed the interest tak-
en by the Saints, and spoke loudly in their favor
and of the devotion they possess in regard to the
great Latter-day work, and an ardent desire for
the redemption of their dead.
	There is, however, a class of donors whose do-
nations are included in the total referred, to
which I wish to draw attention, who have aided
to swell the vast amount of contributions; that
of a number of widows, both in and out of the
district of our acquaintance, who have donated
2,108.23, which is truly the widow's mite.
	We have undertaken to complete a list of this
class of donors, and thinking there may  be


others, whose names we have not got we wish,
through the medium of the press, to call the at-
tention of the Bishops, and Presidents of Relief
Societies, and ask them to aid us in ascertaining
how many of such individuals reside in their re-
spective wards, and if possible the amount each
has donated, as we are unable in this office to
determine these facts on account of many dona-
tions being handed to us in bulk by these offi-
cers, for which we receipt the ward thus contri-
buting, and not individuals; more especially is
this the case among the wards comprising the
Temple District.  An offering of the kind in
question is peculiarly impressive, from the fact
that it is absolutely free from any affectation or
desire on the part of the person donating to be
seen of men, for the purpose of obtaining their
plaudits and approbation, but proceeding from a
pure desire to give to satisfy their consciences,
superindenced by a strong feeling of duty to as-
sist in such a laudable purpose, when taken in
connection with the circumstances that ordinar-
ily surround a person bearing the appellation of
a widow, the act takes on the character of a
sacrifice, and makes it doubly sanctified.  The
many donations of this class are well worthy the
admiration of the Saints, and should arouse a
spirit of zeal in their hearts to assist all in their
power to complete the Temple, that while the
widow gives her mite, sometimes all she hath,
the Saints out of their abundance may give
amply and have abundance left.  Many visitors
seem surprised at seeing the work so nearly fin-
ished, and express themselves well paid for the
interest they have taken in its erection, and
look forward with anxiety to its completion and
dedication, which is in the near future.
	Appreciating the generous acts of all who
have contributed towards the erection of the
House of the Lord,
	I remain, yours respectfulIy,
						C. O. Card.
Logan, Dec. 20th, 1833.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

LORENZO M. RICHARDS.

	It is always painful to record the death of an esteemed
friend, but a duty and a privilege as well, to pay res-
pect and offer sympathy to those bereaved in the time
of trial. Brother Richards died in Ogden City, at the
residence of his father, Apostle F. D, Richards, on the
morning of December 21st, ult., aged 26 years. He was
a young man of great promise and had been a very ac-
tive and energetic business man, even though so young.
He was honored and admired, we might with safety say,
beloved by all who had the pleasure of his acquaintance.
His death was the result of an accident which occurred
while he was riding about six months before his demise.
His suffering a greater part of the time was most in-
tense, yet he was ever patient and marvelously cheerfnl
considering his physical pain.
	From a child he has always manifested a love for the
Gospel, and had unwavering faith in its principles. His
integrity was unquestioned, and his love of humanity
unbounded. During the long and severe illness of Br.
Richards he was carefully and faithfully nursed and
tended by his wife, his mother, and sister his father
and brothers also sharing the watching and attention
day and night.
	There are many who mourn with the family of Bro.
and Sister Richards, and deeply and truly sympathize
with them in their sorrow, but it is vain to offer conso-
lation to those bereaved until some tears have given re-
lief, then the words of Scripture and divine truth are the
sweetest that can be given to the human heart. Jesus
died and rose again, even so those who sleep in Jesus
shall also live again with Him. The same body which
is buried will rise again, purified and glorified. Paul
says, "It is sown in corruption, it is raised in glory, etc."
	The true Latter-day Saint does not fear death, it is
the rending asunder of the ties of affection that is pain-
ful. Bro. Lorenzo did not fear death, but he wished to
live to fill his mission on the earth, and he was abund-

[Column 2]

dantly happy in his home ties. May our Father in mer-
cy soften the grief of his young wife, of his father and
mother, and help them to look beyond the grave to the
immortal reunion in the celestial kingdom, is our most
sincere prayer.

RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO THE FAMILY.
[From the Ogden Herald.]

From a couch of pain and sorrow
	Has a noble spirit risen,
Soaring up to joyful morrow,
	Where the worlds in splendor glisten
Round the throne of the Eternal
	In His majesty and pow'r,
Where a cycle's but diurnal
	And a century but an hour.

Round his lifeless form are weeping
	Parents, wife, child, sisters, brothers—
Weep ye not; he's only sleeping;
	Faithful hope love's anguish smothers.
Bravely with the body's illness
	Waged his manly soul the fight,
Till he conquered in the sillness
	Of that last and sombre night.

Though the eye of mortal blindnes
	Cannot peer behind the veil,
We've assurance that his kindness,
	Truth, and honor did not fail
To secure him in celestial
	Regions that exalted crown
Which so far exceeds telestial
	And terrestrial renown.

Ere this has his unclogged spirit
	Entered through the sacred portal,
True to promise to inherit
	Glories, bliss, and life immortal.
Weep ye not—Lorenzo's waiting
	For ye all beyond the shore
Where earth's ties are reunited
	To be sundered nevermore.

COM.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Margaret
Ann Cluff, who departed this life September 20th, 1883:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in His Al-
wise Providence to call from our midst our beloved sis-
ter, Margaret Ann, wife of Harvey H. Cluff;
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our sis-
ter the loss of an able, efficient and devoted saint and
co-laborer with Mary John as counselors to Margaret T.
Smoot, president of the Utah Stake Relief Society; also
as president of the Relief Society of the Sandwich Is-
lands.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved family and friends in the loss of a
kind and affectionate wife, and estimable woman and
a faithful advocate of the Gospel, who has gone to join
her children in a more extended sphere of usefulness.
	Resolved, that we chrish her memory and regard her
virtues as ever worthy of emulation.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon the
records of each Relief Society in Utah Stake, also that
a copy be furnished the bereaved family, also the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for pnblication.
	MARY J. TANNER,
	ALICE S. NEWEL,
	ANN S. DUGDALE,
	SARAH GOODMAN,
	MARIA J. BOOTH,
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.


OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
			MISSISSIPPI

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY

	I remember how nearly forlorn I felt some
of the time during those dismal, stormy days;
being in Bp. Whitney’s camp I was separated
from my dear mother by an almost impassable
road of mud, and was all of a quarter of a
mile away from father’s camp.  So one morn-
ing I undertook the disagreeable and perilous
journey on the back of a little white Ginnie,
which Father Lot had given to one of the Bp’s
little boys in Nauvoo, and, by the by, she had
carried me over the Mississippi the last time
that I crossed it to Sugar Creek, accompanied
by Horace on his pony.


[Column 1]	
	Ginnnie stood about three feet from the 
ground, and the mud being so deep, I felt some
dubiety about our accomplishing the journey
that day in safety, but being stimulated by a
touch of home-sickness I persevered without
regard to appearance or the mud, with which
I was gererously bespattered. On the oppo-
site side of the road from father's camp was
the camp of the Nauvoo Brass Band, and O[-]
their woe-be-gone appearance I could never for-
get; and how I looked over at them with a pity-
ing gaze from the door of my mother's wagon.
They were actually swamped in mud; but what
was most surprising, under the circumstances,
not a sad face did I behold. The women were
out around, and would give me a cheerful nod
as they were attending to their domestic duties
and all the camps were in a similar condition.
The following incident was related to me con-
cerning Bro. Wm. Pitt and wife, who, like
some of the rest, were sick with the ague
caused by the cold and wet weather, and one
night they were left behind in the mud, and
were not missed till late the next morning
when some of the band went back and found
them. Those were sorry times, but who, be-
sides the Latter-day Saints, can understand or
explain the reasons for such patience, and even
cheerfulness under like circumstances, having
been expelled, though they were law-abiding
citizens, from their homes, and at that time of
the year, enduring such hardships and priva-
tion, that would have disheartened any but
the true Saints, who were willing to make sac-
rifice and be tried, even though it be seven
times in the furnace of affliction.
	"Monday 23rd," Horace wrote, "This after-
noon, about two o'clock, had quite a hail
storm,	continued storming with
rain and hail alternately through the day and
night. Yesterday Bro. John Butler came
from Bishop Miller's camp, which is seven
miles ahead—he seems to like to be in advance
of the main body, as he always pulls up stakes
at our approach, and goes ahead with his com-
pany. Brother Butler thinks it would be a
good idea to go back twenty miles or so in or-
der to get on a road which goes through the
settlements, as the country through which we
are traveling affords scarcely any provender for
our cattle, some of them having had no susten-
ance for two days, with the exception of what
they could browse in the woods."
	On Tuesday we had snow which continued
with little cessation through the day.  "In the
afternoon," wrote Horace, "Bros. Pond and
Burns went into the country about eight miles
and bought twenty bushels of corn at twenty-
five cents a bushel—rather scarce at that price.
	To-day saw three deer carried by
our tent that had been killed by the hunters—
first that we have seen on our journey.
	"Wednesday 25th. Continued snowing
through the day till evening, when it cleared 
off pleasant. This afternoon Brother Pond
took my colt and two of our team horses into
the country with the intention of exchanging 
them for oxen.
	"Thursday 26th. Tolerably fair to-day—
hail fell a little this afternoon—saw Bp. Miller, 
P.P. Pratt, O. Pratt and George A. Smith
pass by our tent on their way home; they came
up from Bp. Miller's camp by request to hold
council.
	"Friday 27th.	This forenoon
Bro's Brigham and Heber went ahead seven
miles to Father John Smith's camp, where they
were met by Bp. Miller and where he had
formerly been encamped, but which he had
left and gone a few miles ahead. Here they
proceeded to make a new organization of the 
companies. B. Young, H.C. Kimball, P.P.
Pratt, John Taylor, Peter Haws and Bp. Mil-
ler, who had formerly been captains of com-
panies were promoted to the office of president,
and their places filled by others. In our com-

[Column 2]
pany the vacancy of the office of captain was
filled by Stephen Marham, an able and effici-
ent officer. In each company there was ap-
pointed two commissaries and a clerk. In our
company the leading commissary is David
Yearsley. His business is to go ahead and en-
gage grain, procure jobs for the company, etc.
Our distributing commissary is Jedediah M.
Grant, whose business it is to distribute corn,
oats, etc., when brought into the camp. Our
clerk is John Pack, whose business it is to re-
cord all essential matters pertaining to the com-
pany.
	"Saturday, 28th. To-day a council was held,
but little was done except ratifying what was
done yesterday at Father Smith's camp.
The roads are improving, though there are
some very bad places ahead yet, as we learn
from our men who occasionally go out in pur-
suit of game, which in this section consists
principally of deer and turkeys. There has
been a number of them already brought into
camp."
	Bishop Whitney disposed of a feather bed
at this place valued at $9.00 in exchange for
a cow, with a man living six or seven miles in
the country. Brother Pond returned, having
disposed of the colt and another team horse
for two yoke of oxen. He had been over in
the State of Missouri where he made the trade,
and one of the oxen proving lame Brother
Pond swapped him for another, giving $9.00
"to boot;" On the 31st O.P. Rockwell re-
turned from Nauvoo. My husband and broth-
er Wm. received some papers from Phineas
Kimball, brother-in-law to Sarah M. Kimball.
Porter started back to Nauvoo in a few days.
	Wednesday, April 1st, Horace wrote, "Brig-
ham, with all the camp except our fifty, start-
ed on their journey—intend going only six
miles to Father Smith's camp, where they are
to wait till we come up in order to hold a
council. To-day father's company employed
themselves in making ox yokes and doing
other chores necessary for the journey.
This evening wrote a letter to Nauvoo for H.
C. Kimball."
	Thursday, 2nd.  "About half past eight
struck our tents and proceeded to Father
Smith's camp on Shoal Creek, where we found
Bro. Brigham.		When we
arrived they were holding council. Bro. Kim-
ball went to it and returned with the news that
we were going on; consequently his company—
the artillery and some others went on five
miles farther and encamped on Prarie Creek,
a branch of Shoal Creek, leaving Bro Brig-
ham's company behind—were piloted a short 
distance by Bishop Miller and another brother
who then rode on to their camp.
Took leave of Porter at Brigham's camp, who
returns to Nauvoo to-day the bearer of several
letters. This day quite cloudy, but no rain.
Before leaving Shoal Creek camp unloaded one
of my wagons and sent it after corn with an-
other, putting the load on one of the other
wagons. Crossed the Missouri State line this
afternoon."
	"Friday, 3rd. This morning soon after
breakfast Brigham's company overtook us—
after stopping a few minutes went on to Bish-
op Miller's camp, where they intend to feed.
During last night three of our oxen strayed
away, consequently were detained after the
rest of the company had left. I proceeded on
foot to Bishop Miller's camp—had not gone far
before it commenced raining, which continued
through a greater part of the day and night."
Some of our experience during those days
could not be written, neither could time erase
them from my memory. This day that he
last mentions the road lay over a prarie, and
the earth being soft and inundated with the
previous rains, all that could were obliged to
walk to favor the poor animals. Our feet
would sink into the deep mud at every step,

[Column 3]
and some of us came near being minus of
shoes; as for umbrellas, they were rare articles,
and we had the cold, pitiless rain beating
down upon us all the way till we were chilled
and shaking with the cold, and were very
grateful to find a sheler and a comfortable fire
in Bishop Miller's tent, where something warm
was given us to drink before ascending the
steep hill on the opposite side of Shoal Creek.
Bishop Miller was encamped on the south fork
of that strem, and father took his company
on to the top of the hill, where we encamped.
Horace continues,  "Thinking the rain might
hinder father from coming on, I started back,
had not gone far before I met Brother John-
son (of the artillery) who informed me that 
father had recovered his cattle, the men sent
out in pursuit having found a man in the act 
of driving them off,		being
about twelve miles from here, he is said to
have been seen in our camp this morning.
Father started about one o'clock and arrived
here at three p.m., and encamped with Bro. 
Kimball's company. We had not been here
more than two hours before the team that had
been sent out in pursuit of corn arrived, bring-
ing fifty-one bushels. After ascending the 
hill Brigham with his company continued on.
	Joseph Kingsbury broke one
of the thills of his buggy this morning soon
after starting, occasioned by the horse jumping
suddenly."
	"Saturday, 4th. From the rain of the pre-
vious day and night the little creek on which
we are encamped is much swollen; continued
raining through the day and night, consequent-
ly had to remain with pitched tents."
	"Sunday, 5th. This morning the sun arose
in unclouded splendor. Brother Kimball
called the poeple of the camp together and ex-
horted them to the observance of several du-
ties which had hitherto been neglected—one
of which was that the captain of each ten
should call his company together and partake 
of the sacrament, which was accordingly 
done."
	On waking next morning we found it rain-
ing, and continued on without cessation till
evening, when it had the appearance of clear-
ing off, but all at once, as Horace describes it,
"the sky was obscured with dark heavy clouds,
the distant roaring of the wind was heard,
which accompanied by a cold rain, soon burst
upon us with all its fury, blowing off hats and
caps,and prostrating the tents, of which but few
were found standing in the morning. Though 
the storm, or rather hurricane, continued the
most of the night, but little other damage was
sustained, except the inconvenience of being
wet by the constant dripping of the rain
through the covers of the wagons, where we
slept, or rather, passed the night."
	I remember this very well. The camps were
about ready to retire to rest when the storm
overtook us; some were in the act of evening
worship and others were preparing their beds
or closing their tents and wagons for the night,
when the hurricane overtook us "as a thief in
the night," and not a wagon cover or tent could
withstand it except the ones that were fastened
down. Those who had no covering sought
shelter with the ones that had till morning,
when the tents were pitched and things right-
ed. Next day it was very cold and windy,
though tolerably fair. The day previous men
had again been sent into the country for corn.
	To be Continued.


118	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Man's best powers point him Godward.—
Spurgeon.
	Edward Everett Hale estimates that 10,000
men whose daily business is selling liquors
over the counter voted for license in Boston
last Tuesday.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 119


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

UTAH COUNTY.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah County, held in the
meeting house, Provo City, Nov. 3rd, 1883,
Counselor Mary John presiding. Ma Smoot
was with us again, also Sister Zina D.H.
Young. Meeting opened with the usual exer-
cises of singing and prayer, reading of minu-
tes of former conference; also reading of the
Resolutions of Respect to Margaret Ann Cluff,
who since our last conference had left us for a
holier sphere.
	Sister John felt thankful to see Sister
Smoot with us again, and to see the house
so well filled with the sisters. Would like to
hear from the president of each society, as
there were no written reports this conference.
	The presidents, but with few exceptions,
some being absent, responded to the call, re-
ported a good feeling generally among the sis-
ters, and a desire to do all in their power to
care for the poor and the needy, and to help to
build up the Kingdon of God, but as a general
thing it was the faithful few who were ready to
respond to every call made upon them.
	Ma Smoot made an effort to speak to the sis-
ters, but her feelings so overcame her that she
could not say what she wished. She said, "My
sisters, I feel more than I can express; I am
happy to be in your midst again, and to see so
many faces here to greet me. I pray that I
may yet be able to be with you again; I feel to
bless you in the name of Jesus, and I pray the
Lord God of Israel to bless you all. Amen."
	Sister Young said, if I should do justice to
my feelings I should like to sit still and listen
to the sisters. The Spirit of God is in our
midst. The spirit that is within us creates an
influence around us. Evil influences are as
contagious as small-pox, Let us purge our-
selves of every iniquity; let us have faith in
God, and not fear, for when our hearts are
filled with fear we cannot have faith. We
have a beacon light ahead to guide us, let us
make fast our feet in the Gospel of Christ; we
are making rapid strides but sometimes I
think we are very slow. Let us not put any-
thing between us and the Spirit of God. Sis-
ter Young spoke a short time in the interest
of the silk. Bore her testimony also to the
truth of celestial marriage; said that the Proph-
et Joseph was told that this work could not
progress till celestial marriage was practiced.
	Sister Beebe, President of the Utah County
Silk Association, spoke in the interest of the so-
ciety; told in brief what they were doing, and
what they were trying to do, etc. A sister at
her house was weaving silk, had woven forty-
five yards; some of it was woven for handker-
chiefs; there was one dress pattern, a small
check black and white, twilled very nice; the
goods were on exhibition at the stand. The sis-
ters were invited to come and inspect them at
the close of the meeting; there was also some
silk prepared for filling another piece of goods,
cleansed and colored by Sister Beebe; it was a
bright blue, and will make nice material for
dresses when woven, it is in the loom now. The
silk business, in Utah County, is progressing
slowly but surely. Conference adjourned till
2 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer. A few of the presidents reported their
societies, after which Sister Young spoke again
on various subjects; first in the interest of the
Deseret Hospital, thanking the sisters for their
help, said their expenses were great and their
income small.
	The speaker spoke of the deep laid plans to
overthrow this people, of the secret societies
that were being organized for that purpose, etc.
She advised the sisters to read the papers an
become informed of what was transpiring

[Column 2]
the world; and said, rear your children in hab-
its of industry. When we are gone our child-
ren will have to carry on our work. Never
speak lightly of anyone before your children,
they remember it, and may speak of it again.
The Gospel enters into our everyday life.
Help those that are weak, do not condemn any-
one. I believe there is an increase of faith
among the sisters. Let us pray that Ma
Smoot may stay with us till she does the work
for her dead friends.
	We know in whom we trust. It is those
that are looking for Him that will be ready
when He comes. We are drawing nearer to
our God; let us invite the good spirit; we do not
know what a power it is, shielding us from evil.
God is merciful, let us humble ourselves be-
fore Him. My heart is full. I pray that the
peace of God may be with us and around about
us forever.
	Sister Tiffany bore her testimony to the
truth of this work, and also spoke in tongues,
which was interpreted by Sister Young.
	Bro. John said he had been pleased in listen-
ing to the remarks of the sisters, could endorse
what had been said; spoke on the word of wis-
dom. We must be Saints in very deed; we
must not oppose the law of God. Our enemies
are trying to destroy us; we must get more of
the Holy Spirit, and it will help us even unto
death. Be kind to each other, sustain those
over you, and if any have done wrong let
them have a chance to reform, and be humble
and wise. We cannot be too humble, etc.
	Bishop Johnson followed with a few remarks,
exhorting all to faithfulness in performing
every duty. Conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Bishop Johnson.
				CAROLINE DANIELS,
							Secretary.

SANPETE STAKE

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Sanpete Stake of Zion, held
at Moroni, Dec. 15th, 1883, President M. A. P.
Hyde presiding, assisted by her Counselors,
Sisters E. Allred and S. Peterson. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of singing and
prayer, reading of minutes and reports. Presi-
dents of the various branch societies gave ver-
bal reports, also bore faithful testimonies to the
Latter-day work.
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde addressed the confer-
ence. Spoke of the difference between the
present time and twenty years ago, when
mothers had to toil and spin, etc.
	Sister Sarah Peterson gave an account of her
visit to the east; dwelt upon the different relig-
ions of the world. Spoke concerning the gath-
ering of wheat; said Brigham Young was a
Prophet of God; and he encouraged it. Im-
pressed the mothers to exert an influence
with their sons and daughters to keep them
pure and spotless, so that they might be pre-
pared to enter into the house of the Lord.
	Helen A. Madsen, Stake President of the
Primary Associations of Sanpete Stake, spoke
on the subject of celestial marriage; said those
who were entering into it were going into a
higher school, and it would save and exalt
them in the Kingdom of God.
	Bishop Irons felt to greet the sisters in con-
ference, and asked the blessings of Almighty
God to rest upon them, etc.
	Singing. Benediction. Conference adjourned
to meet again at 1:30 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer. Sister E. Allred addressed the sisters
on our many privileges, which, if we lived up
to, would prove a great blessing unto us.
Prayed God to bless the sisters of Moroni.
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde bore her testimony on
celestial marriage; and said that she was sealed
to her husband by the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and had lived in that order now forty years,
and knew and realized that it was a glorious

[Column 3]
principle. She than sang in tongues, which
was very heavenly.
	Bishop Allred was thankful for Relief So-
cieties, and all associations that were organized
by command of the Lord. Dwelt upon the
law of tithing, etc., etc.
	Bishop Madsen testified that the Spirit of
the Lord had been in our midst throughout
the conference. Advised the sisters to teach,
and do all the good they could, and the Lord
would bless them.
	At the close of the conference the Moroni
Brass Band played some lively tunes, and
charmed the people with their enlivening
music. Conference adjourned to meet at Foun-
tain Green, March 15th, 1884.
			MARY A. HYDE, Secretary,
			NORAH ROBINSON, Asst. Scc'y.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The enclosed minutes sent were written by
young beginners, who have been chosen and
voted in to take the place of Sister Delia Kof-
ford, and assistant secretary. Sister F. Kofford's
family have been very faithful in the discharge
of their duties, as secretaries in this ward, and
in the stake for many years. They have ten-
dered their resignations of necessity, to attend
to other duties. Sister Delia will probably
move to another field of labor, where I hope
she may be appreciated as she deserves to be, as
a good and faithful member of society. May
the blessings of God attend her.
						M. A. P. HYDE.
	Spring City, Dec. 19th, 1883.


ETHICS OF SLEEP.—The ethics of good sleep
should form a part of household morality. It
is hardly an extravagant assertion that com-
paratively few people, after childhood is passed,
know by experience what perfect sleep is, and
satisfy themselves with a poor apology for this
most perfect refreshment.  Rising tired and
weary from a disturbed, imperfect sleep they
proceed to summon up lost energies by strong
tea or coffee, which in its turn again interferes
with perfect rest at night, and this process of
life, more than any mental or physical labor,
wears women out and makes them prematurely
old. “I have been reading myself to sleep
after retiring,” said a Boston woman the other
day; “and when I have done this for two or,
three nights I can see that I look five years
older.” It is an experience that any woman
can verify, and conversely, she can see that
sleeping in a perfectly dark and well ventilated
room brings back the contour and the roses of
childhood or early youth.
	The most perfect sleep is obtained by care-
fully closing the blinds, raising and lowering
the windows  to admit plenty of pure air, and
drawing down the heavy shades, thus making
the room perfectly dark.  Then, on going to
bed, go there to sleep, not to write or read, or
think or plan, but for the most valuable of all
things, the foundation of all activity and ener-
gy,—perfect sleep.  A few nights of this ex-
perience will work a magic transformation in
looks and in feelings.
	Above all, let us divest ourselves of a tra-
ditional prejudice that there is somehow virtue
in early rising.  When early sleep is obtained
early rising is indicated by nature, by waking;
but artifically produced it is pernicious.  Un-
less there is an exceptional reason, it is far
wiser to sleep till one wakens naturally, and
one hour then will do the work of three when,
one comes to it tired, unrefreshed, “Nature's
sweet restorer” is of all things, the most invig-
orating.—Selected.


Those with whom we can apparently become
well acquainted in a few moments are general-
ly the most difficult to rightly know and un-
derstand.—Hawthorne.


WOMAN’S’ EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿THE TENTH PLAGUE OF EGYPT.

Egypt, the mighty queen of earth, haughty and
Proud, had dared to measure arms with
The poor Hebrew’s God.
Joseph and his great work were long forgotten
Or ignored by him who now the sceptre
Swayed with iron hand;
Israel, the foster-child, was now a slave,
Bending beneath the heavy load and galling
Chains of thraldom.
Long had their cries ascended unto heaven
Unto their God, forgotten, maybe, in their
Brightest hours,
But the All-merciful heard and forgave,
And now the time for their deliverance
Had come; Moses with his mighty
Rod stood forth at God's command to
Lead them out of bondage.
Pharaoh had laughed to scorn the 
Mandates of Jehovah to let His people go
To worship, and fulfill their covenants
To Him, had sneering asked if it
Was with the breath of children, the
White hairs of second childhood or
The straws of their brick-kilns that the
Eternal throne of Egyyt was to be confounded.
To Moses the Lord had said:
"I have made thee a God to Pharaoh and
Aaron shall be thy prophet;
Speak unto him all that I command thee,"
So undaunted had they stood, yet meek
And helpless (so far as mortal aid was theirs)
Before the king and his fierce soldiers,
With ax and spear ready to drink their blood;
Nine times had that mysterious rod been
Lifted o'er Egypt, and each time been
Followed with new horrors, the thought
Alone of which to-day turns the heart
Sick and faint; yet was the
Hebrew still in chains.
	Egypt, though desolate, unyielding still,
Then said the Lord to Moses, yet one more
Plague will I bring to Pharaoh and
Egypt, then surely will he let you go,
"Say now unto my people take of the 
Blood of a lamb and sprinkle the
Lintel and the two side posts, and
None of them shall go out of the door
Of his house until the morning,
For at midnight shall I go forth to
Smite all the first born of Egypt, and
They shall die; but I will pass by my
People that hearken to my command,
That all may know that I am the Lord in
The midst of the earth."
	Ah, fearful night that followed, such
As the world had never known before
Nor will again;
Surely as night crept down all Egypt
Must have felt the coming doom.
We read with careless eye in holy writ,
"The first-born of the land shall die;"
But can we realize its dire fulfillment?
From the king's palace to the home low,
Death in its fearful march this night shall go.
No home but had its dead, from each
Came forth the ery of bitter woe and wild
Despair, and the beast, too, mourned their
Dead with almost human grief;
While above the wall of lamentation
A voice was heard proclaiming,
"This for the blood of the Hebrew children;"
Surely their's had not cried to heaven
In vain.

	Can any dream what Hebrew parents
Felt in their long watch that night?
For surely not an eye was closed, as in
Deep awe and heartfelt prayer they
Watched and waited, hearing the
Wail of their oppressor's mortal anguish;
Their wild, fierce lamentation,
Then with what job heard they the words
Of the stricken king--
"Get ye forth from among my people."
Then were their fetters broken, then
Did a nation of slaves breathe the
Sweet breath of freedom, and with
Faces set towards Canaan's land went
Forth to offer sacrifice and songs of
Praises to God, their great Deliverer.		HOPE. 

[Column 2]
	EXERCISE.--Exercise is a necessity; it pros
longs life, and greatly improves living; it fits
us better for our duties; without it, we do not 
more than half live.  He only who exercises
sufficiently can know the joy of good health-
good digestion, refreshing sleep.  It causes the
blood to circulate quickly, freely, and equally,
and will drive away the blues.  It increases
respiration, thus bringing a larger quantity of 
the elixir of life, oxygen, to purify and vital-
ize the blood.  It rounds and hardens the mus-
cles, and educates them into ever-ready, faith-
ful and efficient servants of the will.  It lim-
bers the joints and strenthens every part of 
the body.  It invigorates the mind, and ren-
ders it active and efficient in all its operations.
--Ex.


A stranger, journeying in France, fell sick
unto death. His friend called in a physician,
who demurred about giving him professional
services, fearing the wherewithal might not be
forthcoming to settle his bill. The friend, pro-
ducing a one hundred franc bill, said:
	"Kill him or cure him, this is yours."
	The sick man died and was buried, and the
doctor, finding his money slow to appear, re-
minded the survivor of the debt.
	"Did you cure him?" he asked.
	"No, sir."
	"Did you kill him?"
	"Certainly not."
	"Then you have no claim on me, sir. I wish
you good-day."


OBITUARY.  
     Died. in Salt Lake City, Utah, December 17th., 1883,
of inflammation of the bowels, Jemima, the beloved
wife of the late Charles Brown, and daughter of John
and Dinah Offes.  Deceased was born at Loring, County
of Norfolk, England, April 8, 1814.  She joined the
Chnrch of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in early
days and passed through many trying events, but was
ever true to her covenants, and died as she had lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint.				Com.
     Millennial Star please copy.


FOR SALE at this Office.
	BOOKS by ELIZA R. SNOW
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos 1 and 2	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 	40c
POEMS, By E.R. Snow, Vol 1
"	Vol. 2 containing steel engraving
	of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, 1.50
	MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M.D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
	block and a half west of the Valley House
	SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN
A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also HOME MADE
	Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,	White Yarns,	Wool Batting,
	Shawls,	Colored Yarns, Brooms,
	Linseys,	Cassimers,	Washboards,
	Jeans,	Tweeds,		Brushes, Etc. Etc.
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M..D.
	OFFICE 15 GODBE, PITTS & COB BUILDING
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence Twelfth
	Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
	    Special Attention given to Disease of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence
	ESTALISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. 	C. 	M. 	I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF  
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS,GROCERIES
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt.
	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
		and an elgant assortment of
	DRY GOODS:
special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118, East Temple Street.
	HENRY DINWOODEY
FURNITURE,
		WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBERQUINS
	AND WINDOW CORNICES
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	SALT LAKE CITY.
Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY
	Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS
	CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

