	VOL. 12. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1883.				no.11.


AN OLD FOLK'S WEDDING RHYME.
	THEIR FIFTY-SEVENTH WEDDING DAY.
	One summer morn in early life
		Sweet bells rang on the air,
	Light footsteps hurried to and fro
		Around a happy pair.
	For on the good ship Union
		The captain, Christopher, stood,
	And by his side his fair young bride
		With courage true and good.

	Bound for a long, long journey
		Around the world so wide,
	Well freighted down with love and faith.
		For calm, or tempest's tide.
	And during fifty seven years,
		Captain and mate have sailed
	In safety over rock and reef,
		Through many a heavy gale.

	And every passenger they took
		They brought in safety through.
	And twice they stopt in heaven's bay
		And left there, dear ones, too.
	Long may the good ship Union sail!
		And their last journey o'er--
	May Captain Christopher andwife
		Anchor on heaven's shore.
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


ONE LITTLE JEWEL.

Ambrose Pare! fair and noble!
	Dowered with Heaven's rarest charms.
Oh, the pure, ecstatic gladness
	When I hold him in my arms.

Nothing ever gave more pleasure
	Than a look into his eyes.
Tears assuaged by his sweet presence,
	As were banished all my sighs.

Oh, I ne'er could tire in gazing
	On his feature's perfect mold;
In their depths such wonder tracing,
	None but mothers can behold.

But the thousand little dimples
	All could see whene'er he smiled;
All could feel his gentle presence
	Though a little infant child.

And if e'er a happy mother
	Felt a pride in one she loved,
True 'twas I, though oft I trembled
	As by some deep impulse moved.

Yet I knew that he was given
	By a Father ever kind
As a brilliant beam from Heaven,
	To all else my heart was blind.

I never thought, e'en for a moment,
	That he might not long remain;
That the One who lends these jewels
	Sometimes calls them back again.

So absorbed with my treasure I scarce can remember
How have passed all the months since that chilly No-
	vember.
Let me think for a moment, yes, 'twas Maytime I know,
When the snow had all melted, the wind ceased to
	blow;
The hills were adorned with fair flowers and bright
	green—
I'm sure, for these flowers were the first he had seen.

But alas, the bright Springtime was to me, ah, so soon
Changed from glory and brightness to darkness and
	gloom.
From my beautiful babe I was destined to part;
He was snatched from my home, but not from my heart.
Far too pure for earth's coldness, its sorrow and sin,
Heaven's gate opened for him; he has now passed with-
	in.


O, that meteor bright that illumined my sky,
Soon passed from its zenith to realms upon high.
And to be true and faithful, to meet him again,
Is the guerdon I crave for this parting of pain.
Still honor the Father, the great all-wise Giver,
And join the loved ones near that "Beautiful River."
	E. R. S.


FORTUNE TELLING.

	I know this subject will be interesting to
most, if not all the young ladies who read the
EXPONENT. I have long wished that I could
express my views to the young ladies upon this
subject, but a fear that I should not do the
subject justice, has caused me to neglect it. I 
scarcely expect my views to harmonize with
those of all the young people, but I hope and
believe that there are some who will agree with
me. Young ladies, do you know who you are?
Well, I think I hear some young ladies say,
we think we do. Exactly, you think you do.
Well, now, to my mind if you understand who
you are, who placed you here upon this fair
earth, and what you were placed here for, you
will never need to go to some one who shuffles
a pack of cards, or turns a teacup to find out
what your fortune is. Is there a young lady
that can truthfully say that she has learned
that which made her feel happier, and brought
that spirit of peace, joy and comfort which the
Holy Spirit brings? I scarcely think that
young ladies who pray and attend their meet
ings will think of visiting fortune tellers, for
the Comforter has been bestowed upon all those
who have been baptized into the Church, and
its office work is to bring things past to our re-
membrance and teach us of things to come,
and take of the things of the Father and show
them unto us; we have prophets to guide and
direct us and warn us of danger, and by means
of prayer and a godly life there is an open
channel of communication between us and our
Father in Heaven; He can always communi-
cate to us anything that it is important for us 
to know, and it is highly important for us to
keep this channel open and free, that the still
small voice may always find a ready response
in our hearts, and live so that we may be able
to distinguish it from the promptings of the ad-
versary. Whatever God withholds from us,
after praying to him for knowledge concerning
the future, we may be quite sure is not intend-
ed for us to know, and if He will not reveal
the future to us we had better be without the
knowledge; many times if we knew the trials
which await us we would not be so well pre-
pared to pass through them as we are when
kept in ignorance of them until they come. At
all events God's way is the best way, and we
would lessen our troubles by learning it early.
Some one may ask, Did you never have your
fortune told? Oh, yes, I have tried both ways
and know whereof I write, and I would advise
all to cultivate the Holy Spirit, and it will
guide them into all truth, and reveal to them
those things that are proper for them to know.
	October, 1883.	RUTH.


OBJECT IN LIFE.

	I think we should all examine our hearts,
and seek to purify ourselves. We certainly
all have some object in life, and should ask
ourselves seriously what that object is, and


what the result of it might be. I saw an ac-
count of some leading American women going
to start a reform in dress, instead of following
after the harlots and disreputable women of
Paris. I think it is time every honest hearted
woman threw off the shackles which makes
slaves, by trying to imitate those whose only
aim is to lead to destruction and ruin.
	It is more than eight years since we made
the resolution to try and create our own fash-
ions, such as would be conducive to health and
comfort. Do we all think of this when we go
to make a dress? I hope so, and I think we
should guard against too much adornment, for
it shows that we worship the god of the world
instead of our Father in Heaven, for He has
said, "Let your garments be plain, and the
beauty thereof the workmanship of your own
hands." I think, sometimes, there will be a
great change before we as a people carry out
this principle, for imported things can be got
cheaper than they can be manufactured here,
but we all know home made articles are much
better. Then let us begin to encourage home
talent; there are many things that could be
made here, neckties and collars, hoods, jackets
stockings and other little things could be net-
ted, crocheted and knit. I do not mean for
every mother to do her own if she can't con-
veniently, but if these things were more en-
couraged there is plenty of ingenuity to make
them. And would it not be much better for
many of the young to learn to create some-
thing instead of using so much time in making
dresses for show? When Babylon falls we
will certainly have to make them or go without.
So let our object in life be to be honest, iudus-
trious, and do all the good we can, that in the
end we may feel that our days have been well
spent.	Your sister in the Gospel,
			MARY J. MORRISON.
	Manuscript Paper, "Young Ladies Herald of
Union." Spanish Fork, Oct. 16, 1883.


THE LAST CHAPTER OF SCENES IN
NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	At early twilight on the 3rd of February a
messenger was sent by my father, informing
H. K. Whitney and myself that this day fin-
ished their work in the Temple, and that we
were to present ourselves there that evening.
The weather being fine we preferred to walk;
and as we passed through the little graveyard
at the foot of the hill a solemn covenant we
entered into—to cling to each other through
time and, if permitted, throughout all eternity,
and this vow was solemnized at the holy altar.
Though gay and highminded in many other
things we reverenced the principles taught us
by our parents and held them sacred, also the
covenants which we had previously made in
that house, so much so that we would as soon
have thought of committing suicide as to be-
tray them; for in doing either we would have
forfeited every right or claim to our eternal sal-
vation.
	On the morning of the 4th the sun shone
brightly into the east windows of the Temple,
where a new scene was being enacted. A num-
ber of persons were busily engaged removing
articles of furniture, stoves, carpets and pic-
tures, etc., etc. President B. Young, and Bp.
N. K. Whitney were invited with members of


[Column 1]

their families and a few of our most intimate
friends to attend an infare given at my father's
house in honor of our marriage—reception is
the more modern name, and perhaps the
most proper as things are carried out in these
days. At the wedding reception, which I have
here casually mentioned, was our friend Sister
Emmie, now Mrs. E. B. Wells, Editor of the
EXPONENT. That evening was the first time
she had ever danced, as she had been brought
up to consider dancing very improper and wick-
ed. We had no glittering surrroundings, nor
had we any use for rich and costly gifts, but
we had what is better, warm and loving hearts,
that were knitted together by past scenes of
sorrow and suffering. It was the pure and
genuine friendship that could neither be
bought nor sold. The lively airs played on
the violin and flute and the bass viol drove
dull care away, and all joined in the merry dance
till the clock struck twelve, when the music
ceased and the blessings of God were invoked
upon us and all of His people, of whatever na-
tion they might be.
	When I was married father told me to never
drop my Kimball name, and for years I kept it
up, but it made my name so lengthy that I
have left it out, only when requested to add it,
but I love the name, and I am oftener addres-
sed by it than any other; I suppose it is owing
to the striking resemblance between us.
	Grandfather Whitney was in Nauvoo at the
time. He had come from Kirtland to receive
the holy ordinances in the Temple, and his
last words to me were, "I shall try and secure
the old homestead, in Kirtland, for you and
Horace; I want you to come and live there by
us." His wife was in Kirtland, and he was tak-
en sick on his way back and died in a day or
two after; and she survived him but a short
time. Her maiden name was Kimball, and her
son, Bishop Whitney, thought so much of her
that he adopted it as a middle name to his
four eldest sons. After he and my father be-
came acquainted in Kirtland they traced rela-
tionship. Both were natives of Vermont, and
the Prophet Joseph afterwards told them that
they were descendants from one and the same
branch of the Priesthood.
	Bishop Whitney said that his father was a 
natural prophet, and he put a great deal of
confidence in his words. He said to Mother
Whitney before leaving Nauvoo for Kirtland:
"I can only see N. K. till he gets to the moun-
tains, but you, Ann, will live a great many
years."
	This was a very hard thing for them to be-
lieve as she had always been a delicate woman
and was subject to habitual spells of sick head
ache, when Bishop Whitney would nurse her,
and he always treated her with the tenderest
care, and had never placed any hardships or
responsibilities upon her. But when on the
23rd of September, 1850, a little over three
years after the arrival of the pioneers Bishop
Whitney took sick and died, leaving his deli-
cate wife to survive him for many years, the
beginning of the prophecies' fulfillment was
made manifest.
	My father had a number of fine boxes made
to order; one he gave to me, and the morning
after I was married he said, "Now, Helen, go to 
and pack up your things." My wardrobe was
not very extensive, but what I had was good,
and I thought they were all that I would get
unless we manufactured the goods ourselvse,
and that would be a long time hence. I had a 
very long riding habit of dark green merino,
which father had brought me from the east; I
had worn it but a few times when we learned
that we were to leave for Mexico. So I put a
deep tuck in the center of the skirt, which was
then all the style, and wore it through the
winter, and it was still a good dress, being a 
strong material. That with a warm hood, muff
and boa made up my travelling suit. Few, I

[Column 2]

suppose, will understand the meaning of josie.
It was made the same as are Mother Hub-
bard dresses, only pleated in folds instead of
gathered, with a cape reaching nearly to the
belt with batting laid between the outside and
lining; these were considered very pretty, and
they were also very comfortable.
	I had some peculiar notions and ideas at
that time concerning our future destiny, and
the following were some of my reflections while
busily engaged packing and tucking away this,
that and the other—boxes containing letters,
notes and cards and many little gifts and tokens
of remembrance, as relics of my infantile and
childhood days, which would have been of lit-
tle value to anyone else, but were all of worth
to me: I thought, woman like, I will pack
away all my little ribbons, collors and laces,
ect., for we are going where we cannot purchase 
them. We are going out from the world to
live beyond the Rocky Mountains where none
others will wish to go, and we are never again
to mingle with Babylon, but remain a distinct
and separate people, where all of our clothing
will be manufactured, and all will be on an
equality.
	There will be neither rich nor poor among us,
and we will have none but the honest and vir-
tuous, and there will be no more snares and
allurements to tempt and lead the youth
wrong. Thus I meditated, but, alas, we found
too soon that "Satan came also." And I have
seen more of Babylon on this side of the 
mountains than I had ever dreamed of or
thought it possible to be in existence. But
time and experience has taught us that these
things were all necessary to prove us, whether
or no we will cleave to the Lord, or to the
Mammon of unrighteousness.
	Being short of wagons and teams, in order
to lighten the load we carried our change of
apparel in bags made convenient for that pur-
pose. We were assisted in onr sewing by two
or more of my father's wives, as there were
clothes to make for the boys and a great deal
to do and a short time to do it in. Harriet San-
ders Kimball came to live with us about a 
week previous to our starting. My mother
first met her at Uncle Joseph Young's, and it
was by much interceding with Sister Young
that she consented to part with her, she being
not only a superior cook, but an excellent
nurse, which Sister Young could appreciate,
being then in feeble health from the hardships
and privations that she had been obliged to en-
dure, like hundreds of others who, like her,
had been driven from State to State, and she
was among those who witnessed the awful
slaughter at Haun's Mill, Missouri.
	My mother's health was then feeble, and
she had three little boys with the whooping
cough—the babe was thirteen months old, who, 
as soon as he commenced coughing, would lose
his breath, and we would have to toss him out
into the cold air, which seemed the only thing
to bring him to. Bishop Whitney's family,
and a great many more were in a similar or
even worse condition. But when they heard
the cry, "To your tents, O Israel!" they left
their comfortable homes and the graves of their
loved ones and followed the voice of the one
whom they knew the Lord had chosen to lead
His people.
	I see by my husband's journal that it was
Monday the 16th that "Heber C. Kimball and
family left their home and repaired to the en-
campment on Sugar Creek," and that Presi-
dent Young had gone the day before. The
wagons father had sent ahead as fast as they
were loaded, and he with mother and family
were invited to stop and take dinner with Hi-
ram Kimball and wife, our respected sister,
Sarah M. Kimball. The day was pleasant but 
the weather freezing. My husband returned
and came over to camp next day.
	The following extracts are from Sister Jane

[Column 3]

B. Taylor's journal: "Monday, February 16th.
I left the city of Joseph and crossed the Missi-
sippi river, accompanied by my dear brother
Richard (Ballantyne), Brother William Tay-
lor and Joseph Kaighn. 	*	*	Being
very cold, after crossing the river we stopped
and took the use of a fire that had been built
and made ourselves a cup of coffee. And as
we had two cows along we had no lack of
milk.	*	*	While thus engaged He-
ber C. Kimball came across and expressed his
satisfaction in seeing me on my way to Califor-
nia. Having got ourselves warmed with our
hot coffee, William and I mounted the wagon
*	*	*	and started a little after sun-
down. Helen Kimball, daughter of H. C. 
Kimball, rode along side of our wagon until
she became so cold that she could not sit on
her pony. She stopt and we gave her some
wine, and Brother Dickson kindled a fire, and
we sat around and warmed ourselves. We
reached the camp at Sugar Creek about seven
o'clock." This, like a thousand other inci-
dents, had passed from my memory till Sister
Taylor reminded me.
	The pony that I rode belonged to my brother
Heber. It was first purchased for William
from a lady in Illinois, who had named it
"Happy go lucky," but William having grown
too large and heavy for it gave it to Heber. It
was a gentle little animal and stood about
three feet and a half high. Many a happy go
lucky ride I had taken over the prairies, and
when it paced or galloped it was as easy as a 
cradle. At Sugar Creek father's men had
pitched a tent and put up a sheet iron stove at
one end, and great log fires were burning all
through the camp. When we had warmed
ourselves we made our beds upon the ground
and laid down with grateful hearts for so com-
fortable a shelter, and slept soundly till morn-
ing. The snow was deep so that paths had to
be made with spades between the wagons and
tents. Camping out increased our appetites so
that our picnic was very nearly consumed be-
fore the camp was ready to leave Sugar Creek.
We had cooked up a great amount of provis-
ions, consisting of roasted chicken, beef, boiled
hams, pork and beans, bread, rusks and many
other eatables, beside sea biscuits and crackers,
which we could eat and eat and still be hun-
gry. I remember the day that Brigham 
Young called the camp together for the pur-
pose of organization. All the men came to-
gether at the sound of his voice as he stood up
in a wagon and cried, "Attention, the whole
camp of Israel."
	The same day, afternoon, he, with my father,
returned to Nauvoo to assist Brother Joseph
Kingsbury to procure teams. My husband re-
turned the same day to help his father. On
the 19th it began storming, and it was dismal
enough to give even a saint the blues.
	The next day Sarah Lawrence Kimball and
myself went back to Nauvoo where we re-
mained a week, she with her sister, Mariah
Babbit, and I with my husband's family.
	Sunday, 22nd, my father and President
Young returned to camp. The multitude of
teams crossing on the ice caused it to crack
and give way under them, and when we came
there to recross the river there was a slow
drizzling rain, and the ice was floating down
so that we had to remain till towards night,
and then we had some difficulty in getting
across in a skiff. But in a few days the wea-
ther turned so cold that the river froze over in
one night, and by the 28th the church teams
were able to drive over in safety.
	To be Continued.


82	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The women of Ohio were out in full force
on election day. They served ballots and hot
coffee with equal vigor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 83


HOW SWEET AND PEACEFUL IS
THE TOMB!

	"Pale death, with impartial step, knocks at the hut
of the poor and the palace of kings. They are all com-
pelled to take the same road: from the urn of death
shaken for all, sooner or later the lot must come
forth."—HORACE

How sweet and peaceful is the tomb!
	How calm and tranquil there!
As naked came we from the tomb,
	So naked we repair!
There all life's tumults sink in peace,
	Fade all earth's gilded joys;
The wicked from all troubling cease,—
	Their rage no more annoys.

There ev'ry weary pilgrim rests,
	There sleep the great and small;
There lay the tyrants and oppressed,—
	Death's sleep reigns o'er
There servant, master, foe and friend,
	Partake the same repose;
And there, in peace, the ashes blend
	Of those who once were foes

There lays the sinner steeped in vice,
	Hands red with human gore,
Who learned by crime's most foul device
	All virtue to abhor.
And there in peaceful, tranquil sleep,
	The holy saint does rest,—
Bright angels round him vigils keep,
	To make his slumber blest.

There lays the babe in swaddling clothes—
	No stain of guilt its share—
Calm and at peace, in death's repose
	It slumbers free from care.
The parents, too, lay 'side its form,—
	Their battle fought and won,—
They've stood the blast of life's rough storm:
	Now shines eternal sun!

The haughty voice, the despot's tone,
	The persecutor's sneer,
All lay there hushed, still as a stone,
	Silenced from their career.
The slave aside the tyrant sleeps,
	The young rests with the old;
No more the woeful widow weeps,—
	Death comfort does unfold.

The child, the boy, the parent stern,
	The tot'ring, feeble sire,
All to the grave their steps must turn
	When God their souls require;
Then, death, where is thy sting?
	O grave, thy victory?
Show me, when life its close shall bring,
	Thy painful jubilee!
						JAMES H. WALLIS.

Salt Lake City, October 8th, 1883.


[Column 1]
MARTIN TUPPER.

HANNAH T. KING.

	Those readers who have delved into Tup-
per's "Proverbial Philosophy" with the intense
and edifyiug delight that I have done, also
some of his poems, embodying some of the
highest and holiest affections and aspirations
of human nature, will not think it waste time
to spend a few moments with me in viewing
him as he stands to-day before the Literati of
England. This is an age of testimonials, and
the friends of Mr. Tupper are agitating a tes-
timonial to him while he is living to enjoy it.
This is sensible, and the very best kind of
testimonial. Like the generality of the poets,
Tupper is poor, and is seventy three years of
age; he resides at Norwood, a suburb south of
London, he has also a country house at Al-
bury. At Norwood he stores relics of his an-
cestors, who fought with Cromwell and his
"Ironsides" The name was formerly Von
Topphers, they were lords in their native coun-
try, but were driven out by the religious per-
secutions of the Spaniards; they then settled
in Guernsey, and have there been among the

[Column 2]
chief families for over 300 years. Sir Charles
Tupper, who recently arrived in London as
commissioner for Canada, is his cousin; Tup-
per was originally intended for the Bar, but
an impediment in his speech interfered, and
refering to this he said, "God intended to keep
me silent and thoughtful, and to do work
which I should not have done had I proceeded
with law, or into the church." His account of
the Proverbial Philosophy is that when about
eighteen he was engaged to be married, and he
wished to give his intended wife instructions
of "love and marriage"—he did not wish to
do it in prose or verse, and therefore he adop-
ted the style of the proverbs of Solomon, hence
the four parts—love, marriage, education and
friendship were completed at the afore-named
early age, but they were not published until
1837.
	When I read his beautiful "Family picture"
I can imagine that he carried out the beauti-
ful code he so religiously portrayed in his
"Philosophy." I here extract a few lines from
a sonnet entitled, "Guernsey."

Guernsey! for nearly thrice one hundred years
Home of my fathers! refuge from our fears,
And haven to their hope—when long of yore
Fleeing Imperial Charles and bloody Rome,
Protestant martyrs, to thy sea-girt shore
They came to seek a temple and a home,
And found her generous—I, their son, would pour
My heart full—all praise and thanks to thee,
Island of welcomes!—friendly—frank and free!

	The friends of the poet now in his seventy-
third year have organized themselves into a
committee, and publicly reqnest the readers
and admirers of the works of this author to
show their esteem by subscribing to a fund for
the benefit of his old age. Few, if any books
have been more read in modern times than the
"Proverbial Philosophy;"—"the Pilgrim's Pro-
gress" has scarcely been more widely read;
there is something in his writings that finds an
echo in all who read them; they are full of
strong practical religious sentiment. In Amer-
ica especially the book has enjoyed an im-
mense circulation. Many would suppose in
consequence of this universal circulation of
his works that he ought to be a rich man—if
his remuneration for his writings bore a pro-
portion to their sale, he wonld be living in
comfort, if not luxury—but such is not the
case, and hence his friends are seeking sub-
scriptions to a fund with which they purpose
to make a provision for his declining years.
Few successful writers have been so little able
to reap pecuniary advantages as Mr. Tupper—
misfortune has attended almost his life; one
publisher failed with an account on his books
of fifteen years standing; another firm allows
him only one penny per copy for a cheap is-
sue; while a third house is said to be selling an
illustrated and high-priced edition for which
the author has been paid nothing for three
years. The multitude of copies "pirated" by
numerous publishers all over America have
been of no benefit at all beyond fame and
good doing to this esteemed and excellent au-
thor, therefore, his friends hope and expect
that the enlightened and literary people of A-
merica will avail themselves of the present op-
portunity of recognizing by a liberal subscrip-
tion the ill-rewarded merits of one who has
been fifty years before the reading world, and
has done good to tens of thousands who now
have an opportunity of giving him a grateful
return and acknowledgement for the good they
have received, and the rich enjoyment with
which they have been entertained. There are
already 200 subscribers in the first list, and a
second is shortly to be published. Tupper's
admirers are legion, and now is the time to
make palpable their appreciation of him. The
working brain ought certainly to receive re-
muneration equally with the physical labor—
and in many noble instances it is rewarded as

[Column 3]
it deserves to be. The Laureate of England
has an annuity from the crown—and it is
many years ago that Queen Victoria ordered
a life annuity to be settled on Eliza Cook,
which, of course, she has ever since enjoyed.
	Another appeal is about to be made to the
English public on behalf of one of the hard-
est workers in literature, Dr. Charles Mac-
kay. A petition to Mr. Gladstone, praying
that the pension allowed to Dr. Mackay from
the civil list may be increased, has been
signed by Mr. Tennyson, Mr. Browning, Lord
Lytton, Lord Reay, Mr. Irving, Mr Sala, Mr.
Alfred Austin and other admirers of Dr.
Mackay's lyrical gifts, and his earnest labors
for many years in the cause of national educa-
tion.
	All this shows rich appreciation of the gifts
of God, for He is the Giver, and Bestower,
why should the gold and silver coffers be full
and "running over" and yet the workers and
the laborers suffer for the comforts of life,
while the drones and the butterflies and things
of that genus are often surfeited even to death
with the sweets and the lnxuries in which they
revel-and which as a maelstrom very often en-
gulfs them. All honor to the noble committee
who have opened up this fund for a worthy
writer, who as far as he knows it has preached
the Gospel in his writings and on such the
smile of Heaven beams for ever. Those who
have not read Tupper's works have a grand
treat in store for them. I have possessed them
for thirty years, and have read and reread them
and every time I see new beauties in them; as
I said, the Gospel spirit breathes through
every part of them, there are copious notes
to the Philosophy that are very instructive,
and contain much information; the "thou-
sand lines" that follow contain food for both
heart and brain; it is a book that should
be found in every library, and should be
often taken up as a book to refresh and
invigorate the soul. Joseph Smith said,
"Get good out of all good books," and this is
one he would have loved and endorsed. The
mind, to be properly cultivated, requires va-
riety, both in style and subject; in these last
days when time is so precious no trash should
ever be taken up or allowed on any bookshelf,
for the human mind quickly receives a taint,
or may be warped, never again to become
erect.


BENEFIT OF LAUGHTER.—Probably there
is not the remotest corner or little inlet of the
minute blood veseels (life vessels) of the body
that does not feel some wavelet from that great
convulsion (hearty laughter) shaking the cen-
tral man. The blood moves more lively—pro-
bably its chemical, electric, or vital condition
is distinctly modified—it conveys a different
impression to all the organs of the body as it
visits them on that particular mystic journey,
when the man is laughing, from what it does
at other times. And so, we doubt not, a good
laugh may lengthen a man's life, conveying a
distinct stimulus to the vital forces. And the
time may come when physicians, attending
more closely than at present, unfortunately,
they are apt to do, to the innumerable subtile
influences which the soul exerts on its tene-
ment of clay, shall prescribe to torpid patients,
so many "peals of laughter, to be undergone at
such and such a time," just as they do now
that far more objectionable prescription, a pill
or an electric or galvanic shock; and shall
study the best and most effective methods of
producing the required effect in each patient.
—Good Health.


There is, no knowledge of God where love
does not flourish.—Calvin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	*	*	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 1, 1883.


[Column 1]﻿

BISHOP EDWARD HUNTER.

	This excellent and distinguished man depart-
ed this life on Tuesday evening, October 16,
1883, at his home in the 17th Ward, Salt Lake
City. He was perhaps quite as well known as
any man in the Church, occupying, too, a very
high position, which he was eminently qualified
to fill. Bishop Hunter was a man that every-
body recognized as possessing superior qualities
of head and heart. It was impossible even to
see him without recognizing the fact. The
writer well remembers when she first met him in
Nauvoo. At that time he was in the very zenith
of his manhood, the trusted friend of the proph-
et of God. He was what the world terms a man
of presence. His unflinching integrity, his ad-
herence to principle, his zeal for the right, gave
to his manly character still greater prestige.
He was the friend of the poor and unfortunate,
and these attributes eminently qualified him for
the office of Bishop. He was true as steel to the
Gospel and its interests, and all he possessed he
was ever ready to lay upon the altar for the up-
building of the Kingdom of God upon the earth.
He gave generously hundreds and thousands of
dollars, at different times, to assist in rolling on
the good work, not grudgingly, but with infinite
pleasure. He was one of nature's noblemen,
physically and mentally endowed with those
magnificient capabilities that mark the man of
destiny. He lived to a good old age, beloved,
honored and respected, and was indeed one
of the few who make no enemies. It might
well be said of him, he has gone as a shock of
corn fully ripe. He has left several sons and
daughters, and his illustrious example is worthy
to be followed by them. His widow must in-
deed be lonely, for to the aged as well as to the
young, death is always an unwelcome visitor,
and when he takes those who are nearest and
dearest, we cannot but mourn even though we
know they were fully prepared and willing
to go.
	Bishop Hunter was born in Newtown, Delaware
Co., Pennsylvania, June 22d, 1793. His parents
were Edward and Hannah Hunter. The ances-
tors of Bishop Hunter were of noble blood, and
the ancestral halls in England are still occupied
by descendants of the same line from which the
Bishop came. Br. Hunter went to Nauvoo soon
after the Saints gathered there from Missouri,
and was afterwards made Bishop of the Fifth
Ward of Nauvoo, ordained under the hands of
Presidents Brigham Young and Heber C. Kim-
ball and Newel K. Whitney.
	Bishop Hunter came to the valley in the first
company of families that left Winter Quarters
for the valley, starting after the pioneers, arriv-
ing here early enough to put in a crop, and in
the settlement of the city located in the Thir-

[Column 2]

teenth Ward, of which he was made Bishop,
and held that position until after the death of
Presiding Bishop, Newel K. Whitney. He was
appointed to succeed Bishop Whitney in that
office at the April Conference, 1851, and was al-
so appointed Assistant Trustee in Trust for the
Church. He received his ordination under the
hands of Presidents Heber C. Kimball and Wil-
lard Richards, and he chose at that time, as his
Counselors, Brigham Young and Heber C. Kim-
ball.
	Bishop Hunter went back to Winter Quarters
in 1849, to assist the emigration for that season,
and when he returned home he learned of the
death of Bishop Whitney, which had occurred a
short time previous. He had the greatest res-
pect and admiration for the Bishop, and he has
often expressed himself to the writer that his
impression on hearing that the Bishop was
dead was that he would be "called to fill his
friend's place." And it proved true.
	Bishop Hunter assisted in laying the north-
west corner-stone of the Temple in this city,
April 6th, 1853, and after the ceremony delivered
the oration on that occasion.
	There are many good things that might be
said of him, but his works praise him, his child-
ren rise up and call him blessed, and Saints
everywhere honor his memory and treasure his
sayings in their hearts.
	His first wife who had received the Gospel in
Pennsylvania and accompanied him to Nau-
voo, and from there to Winter Quarters, and
afterwards to the valley, who had stood by
him in all his travels and labors, died in the
valley in 1855.
	The funeral of Bishop Hunter was held in
the Assembly Hall in this city on the 19th
of October, at which time the house was
crowded. The body of the Bishop lay in state
in the casket from 12 a.m. until 2 p.m., that
all who wished might have the opportunity of
viewing the honored dead. The coffin was
literally covered with the choicest flowers,
beautifully arranged and was placed on the
Bishop's stand. The family and relatives were
seated immediately in front; in the middle of
the Hall, and at the left of the casket were
the pall bearers. On the stand were the lead-
ing men of the Church, and of this Stake of
Zion, and the services were conducted by
President John Taylor. After singing by the
choir Apostle Erastus Snow offered prayer and
the choir sang. The speakers were President
Taylor and Pres. Smith, Apostles W. Woodruff,
E. Snow and F. D. Richards. Each of these
men paid a glowing tribute to his memory and
exhorted the living to be obedient to the com-
mandments of God.


[Column 1]

KATE FIELD.

	Miss Kate Field of New York, the celebrated
"artiste and litterateur," is spending a few days,
here and is greatly interested in seeing for herself
this remarkable valley and the peculiar people,
everywhere spoken of on account of their dis-
tinctive religious views.
	Miss Field is widely and favorably known in
many countries for her literary culture and abil-
ity, her popularity as a writer, and as an author
of books and of a play which she brought out
in London.
	She gave a lecture in the Congregational
Church in this city, Tuesday evening, the 23 ult.,
to a full house and an admiring and appreciative
audience, though small because of the size of
the building. Her subject was, "An evening
with Charles Dickens." She handled the theme
in a most pleasing and happy manner. Her
voice is wonderfully clear and musical, yet capa-
ble of such variety of intonation as to adapt

[Column 2]

itself to every expression of her subject, whether
grave or gay, full or deep, low and sweet, or for-
cible and indifferent. This popular lady is
graceful and easy in manner, perfectly artistic
in costume, self possessed and master of the
situation, she made a most attractive picture on
the platform.
	The Dickens' lecture was so much in the style
of elegant conversation that one could almost
imagine himself taking part in it, and that
Dickens himself was present. It was so new, so
different from the generality of lectures and the
speaker so superior to the ordinary lecturer, that
it was more like a study of Dickens with an able,
efficient and beautiful advocate, than it was like
a lecture. She held Dickens up as a model, and
we shall not differ from her; besides, it is good
to have friends who tell the world the best side
of one's nature, if even after one's demise.
	Miss Field evidently loves her subject with
the ardent enthusiasm of a warm and generous
nature, and enters into it heart and soul, deter-
mined to persuade her audience to feel as she
does. She looks all that she expresses in words.
Her language is choice and elegant, and her en-
unciation distinct and pleasant. A woman of
culture and excessively facinating, yet withal
so genuine and sincere that she wins the admir-
ation and respect of all who come within the
sound of her voice. She makes those who al-
ready admired Dickens' talent still more in love
with him as a writer, and to the indifferent
reader she must certainly awaken a positive de-
sire to read and study his works more thorough-
ly because of her wonderful genius in describing
the humanity of the author. Altogether her
lecture was a rich treat, full of suggestions to
the student of human nature, and overflowing
with wit and humor to a most extraordinary de-
gree. Those who have read Dickens will,
after hearing Miss Field, take up his books with
fresh zest, and peruse them thoughtfully as one
who has an interpreter reviews that which was
to him before unintelligible. Miss Field has been
rightfully designated Dickens "most sympathet-
ic and intelligent interpreter."
	We trust she will be persuaded to give her
"Musical Monologue" in the Salt Lake Theatre,
as it is the one place best suited to a woman of
such celebrity. All such women are philanthrop-
ists in the most complete sense of the word,
for they give to humanity that which is better
than food or raiment, enlightenment of the un-
derstanding.
	Miss Field, the critic, the author and the ar-
tiste, with all her culture and attainments is as
simple and unaffected as a child; through this
her true nobility is so apparent as to entitle her
to the unbounded regard and esteem of those
who have the pleasure of meeting her, and
more especially when they have heard her
speak in public. Mingling with the world of
fashion and frivolity she seems to have escaped
unscathed. Her freshness and piquancy are
quite remarkable, and add a fine luster to the
polish of a woman of the world.


THE PICTURE AND BOOK.

	The Picture, "Representative Women of
Deseret," and the accompanying book are now
well underway. The proof of the engraving
has been received, but the engravers not being
acquainted with their subject, and the work
having of necessity to be done so far away—
there have been mistakes made which must be
corrected, and it will necessitate some delay.
The title page of the book is nicely arranged
typographically and reads as follows: Representa-
tive Women of Deseret, a book of biographical
sketches, to accompany the picture having the
same title. Compiled and written by August


Joyce Crocheron, author of "Wild Flowers of
Deseret," and dedicated to the originals of this
Picture and Book, their co-laborers in the
Church, and every true heart that will receive
their testimonies." The book is being published
here by J. C. Graham & Co. The following
verse used for the title page is in Mrs. Crocher-
on's original style, and is not only very sweet
and touching, but very appropriate:
	"O, spirits dear! ye light the path]
		That else were lone and dim;
	I follow where your sainted feet
		Lead onward up to Him,
	And hear above life's discords still,—
		Your heav'n inspired hymn."
	The originator and author of this unique work,
the drawing and designing all done by her own
taste and ingenuity certainly will do herself
great credit. The beautiful illustrations of the Lat-
ter-day Saints woman's organizations their sym-
bols and mottoes given in such a delicate fash-
ion as to show up the harmony of all, is indeed
quite a study. We cannot doubt that the work
will give satisfaction, and it is something so en-
tirely different to anything before designed that
it will be quite a novelty and surprise. Its his-
torical value will be an honor to the lady who
had the tact and talent, the energy and perse-
verance to understake the responsibility without
money, trusting to the generous public, and to
the patronage of her friends and admirers. And
we must not forget to add her faith in God to
bestow His blessing upon her humble efforts.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE take pleasure in hastening to correct a
slight mistake in our last issue, where we
made it appear as if Mrs. Barney had given
an original lecture to the Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tion of the 8th Ward. The truth is she sim-
ply read through courtesy, Dr. Pratt's lecture,
which an imperative professional call intercept-
ed Dr. Pratt's presenting herself.
	MISS KATE FIELD will give her Musical mon-
ologue in the Salt Lake Theatre, Monday even-
ing, November 5. Those who wish to have a 
musical treat should be sure and attend. Lon-
don and American papers speak very highly of
her remarkable talent for a public entertainment,
and knowing a little of the lady's versatility of
talent we cannot help thinking her appearence
at the theatre will be a success professionally
and we hope it will be financially.


[Column 1]

VISIT AND REFLECTIONS.

	It would be a pleasure could we give a sketch
of our trip down through Utah Stake with Sis-
ter E. S. Taylor, and afterwards to Nephi with
Sister E. B. Wells; but there were so many
pleasing incidents attending our journeyings
and the interesting Conferences, with the greet-
ing of old friends and making new ones, etc.,
that it would be useless for one to begin as it
would take up too much space. But I can testi-
fy that we found them enjoying a kind spirit
and inspired by the same desire to become one
in spirit and in truth, which we met in every
settlement. I had never before visited farther
than Springville and I confess that I was sur-
prised, more especially to see what a multitude
of intelligent and neatly dressed children, with
such bright, happy and pretty faces that are
growing up in the midst of this people. The ex-
ercises of the Primaries were varied and inter-
esting, and their singing and all was very
charming. The Relief Societies and young peo-
ples Associations, judging from the reports that
were read and the full houses, with the good
order and attention paid to the speakers, were

[Column 2]

interested, and were trying to live up to th
principles of the Gospel, and assist in this great
work of improvement. It is very gratifying to
see what has been accomplished since these as-
sociations were instituted, and I thought, like
the Queen of Sheba, that the half had not been
told us. "A tree is known by its fruits," and 
from all that we saw I should judge that our so-
cieties are working in the right direction. And
these things give the lie to the abominable tales
told about the ignorance, vice and degredation
among the "Mormons," which, though we know
are instigated by pure jealousy, the world are
more than willing to swallow. There are those,
it is true, who are a disgrace, and others that are
drones in the hive. The disaflected ones, who
are always grumbling, are really to be pitied,
for they are standing in their own light. But we
need not wonder that Satan is up in arms and
making good use of the little time that is left
him, for Zion is growing in wisdom and power,
and swiftly spreading over this land of promise.
If God had not been on our side our institutions
would long since have died a natural death, and
Mormonism would not now be in existence.
But the united prayers that have been continu-
ally offered up in behalf of the Latter-day Saints
have been answered, and we have been protect-
ed continually from the hands of our enemies,
or their threats might easily have been carried
into effect.
	"But," the Rev. Dr. Talmage says, "go it
must, or the honor and virtue and life of this
nation will go. What headway can the Church
of God and reformatory institutions make as
long as this organized libertinism and enthroned
indecency are allowed to remain? The men ca-
pable of throttling this evil have not yet come
to the front. I wonder from what state they
will come, and in which Congress they will ap
pear, and what will be the mode of their attack.
Eight hundred captives of Mormondom, under
the care of their captors, allowed on the Sab-
bath day to pass through New York is a mon-
strosity, and of all the calamities of the week is
the most calamitous." O, ye whited sepulchers,
why, all the sins and iniquities that can
be scraped up and gathered from every "Mor-
mon" settlement could not be compared with
the description given by this same Rev. in one
of his best sermons upon the condition of society
where he thrives, and many others of the rich
and pampered Pharisees, who preach only for
hire and divine for money, but utterly refuse to
give the "Mormons" any quarter. We can read
daily of their wickedness and depravity, and
here is one little item published at Detroit,
August 1st; 1883. "At Bay City, this morning,
the bodies of five dead infants were found in a
vault in the rear of Mc Cormick Block." These
are trifling things, which are thought little or
nothing of, and are of every day occurence in
their boasted Christain circles. But such things
are horrifying to Latter-day Saints, who believe
in obeying all the commands of the Almighty,
and we are audacious enough to practice the an-
cient order of the Patriarchs. And we know
that hell is the portion of those who take what
they cannot give, the life of a human being, ex-
cept in self defence. The Rev. Talmage pro-
poses a different mode from Christ's teachings
in the New Testament, that would have told
them of Him who came to seek and save that
which was lost. It is true that a few batteries
opened on the hills around Salt Lake City might
once have put a quietus on the "Mormons," had
they not been held back by a higher power who
declared, "Thus far shalt thou go and no far-
ther.' It would be well for such as him to stop
before they arrive at "the day of judgment,"
and consider well their steps, that they pass not
false judgment, for they will have to meet it in

[Column 3]

that day when all must stand before the Bar of
God.
	We have had abundant cause to fear and
shun the smiling hypocrites who have lain wait
to ensnare our youth, and would glory in the
overthrow of our households. How they have
rejoiced and gloated over the ruin of certain ones
who have disobeyed the teachings and counsel re-
ceived from their parents and friends, and been
captivated by the charms and deceitful flattery
of their serpent-like tongues, who will exult and
laugh over the misery and desolation which they
have helped to accomplish, and then undertake
to palm their unholy deeds upon the practice
of the plural order of marriage, as in the case of
young Rich and Smith, but in so doing their
own ignorance and malice is made manifest--
neither of them having been born of what they
term polygamous mothers. They have openly
and insultingly told our youth to rebel against
our teachings as well as every righteous princi-
ple contained in the Gospel of Christ, which
every true Saint has striven so long and dili-
gently to instill into the hearts of their offspring
—encouraging our sons to get drunk, to frequent
gambling cells and houses of ill fame, or any-
thing to break us up, no matter how bad they
become so Mormonism is destroyed. Such will
be made answerable for the greatest sins of our
youth which are laying at the doors of these rep-
tiles in human shape. And they will yet have
to taste more of the bitter dregs of sorrow and
anguish than is now rending the hearts-strings
of those who have loved and cherished these
sons, who, thanks to the abandoned wretches
that have crept into our midst, have become fit
subjects for the criminals cell, God grant that
their example may serve as a deep and lasting
lesson to others who may incline to be wayward
and disobedient, and understand distinctly that
these are some of the choice fruits of Christian
civilizaiton. Yes, and they intend, if possible,
to make our peaceful and orderly cities the same
as their own, which are filled full of vileness
and corruption.
	And now let me say a few words to my young
friends and sisters, for I am interested in their
welfare and wish to see them all made happy.
Had we always lived as we should do could our
enemies have gained so strong a foothold as they
have in our midst? I think not. Had we strict-
ly kept the laws of God and of health, which be-
long to those laws, the destroyer could not have
obtained such a hold upon us, effecting our
bodies and our spirits, taking from us so many of
our loved ones, the little innocents that so twine
themselves around our tenderest heart-strings,
leaving so many stricken and heart broken pa-
rents and friends, who will mourn over their un-
timely death, and their own, seemingly, unjust
and needless bereavements, and often-times
murmur and blame Providence for the same.
But were we willing to search into our own
hearts and cross-question ourselves we might
then learn the true cause. We have all fallen,
and therefore are born and begotten in sin, and
we naturally cleave to the world and the things
of the world, and those who are not very careful
before they are aware of it will have drifted away
into darkness and unbelief, and apostacy is the
sure result. We have witnessed these things
from the very beginning, and know that it
would be far better if we would keep humble,
and always listen to the teachings and admoni-
tions of those whom the Lord appoints and
places as shepherds to guard His fold. We
should not slumber, but be wide awake to the
times and the scenes which are right at our
doors. Our time here is very short and precious,
and should be well spent. The reading of fic-
tion is a loss of time, for in that we can gain no
knowledge nor intelligence pertaining to our


past, present or future existence. Novels are
like husks to those who have once feasted on the
things of God—the pure bread of life, and have
continued to retain that spirit. Satan is manifest-
ing his power, and these spiritual rappings and
mediums, which have turned so many people's
brain, are only forerunners of the great and more
mighty manifestations which are soon to be wit-
nessed from the spirit world. There are mil-
lions of the dead looking to this people to attend
to the ordinances that will redeem and free
them from their prison house, but they will com-
municate in a more intelligent manner than the
present senseless and disgusting mode. We
should beware of Satan, and understand that his
doctrines are generally the first to be introduced,
and we have been warned of his power, which
is to be such in the last days that he will be able
to deceive almost the very elect. And may God
grant that our wisdom, union and faith may in-
crea e until Satan can find no foot-hold nor rest-
ing place in our midst. Then he will be bound,
and can no longer have power to afflict our bod-
ies or spirits.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	Oct. 18th, 1883.


86	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

SANDWICH ISLANDS.

INTERESTING REPORT.

	A Conference of the Relief Societies of the
Sandwich Islands was held at Laie, Oct. 5th,
1883.
	On the stand, Mrs. S. L. Partridge, Mrs.
Armeda S. Young; native Counselors, Kaahanui
and Nalie; also Pres. E. Partridge, J. H. Gard-
ner and W. G. Farrell. Meeting was called
to order by Pres. Partridge. The Society of
Laie having formed themselves into a choir for
the occasion, and being dressed in white, arose
and sang one of the old songs that used to be
sung when Brother George Q. Cannon was on
the Islands, and which was composed by Bro.
R. Allred. Prayer by Kaahanui. Singing.
There are fifteen societies organized on the dif
ferent Islands at the present time, from all of
which written reports were read except one.
Verbal reports were also given of nearly all by
Presidents or Counselors of the different socie-
ties, which reports showed them to be in a
flourishing condition. The figures of the con-
densed reports were as follows: Number of mem-
bers April 5th, 1883, 332; died, 17; removed,
17; new members, 67; total number of mem-
bers Oct. 5th 1883, 345; amount of money in
the treasury on April 5th, 1883, 330,13;
amount donated since April, 272, 79 1/2; given to
the poor, 55,20; expended for other purposes,
144,30; amount in the treasury Oct. 5th, 1883,
403,39 1/2.
	A few remarks were made by Sisters Part-
ridge and Young, and interpreted by President
Partridge, who also addressed the meeting a
short time, instructing them in their duties
and encouraging them in their labors.
	Most of the money paid out of the treasury
has been donated by the different societies to
assist in building a house for the use of the so-
ciety at Laie; it is considered necessary for
them to have such a house, not only for the ac-
comodation of the poor but for other purposes.
It would be hard indeed for anyone who has
not had the experience to understand the many
difficulties to be overcome in trying to introduce
and establish these societies among a people so
simple in their understandings, and so unaccus-
tomed to anything of the kind, aside from the,
to me, almost insurmountable difficulty of learn-
ing the native language, it is a labor which re-
quires indefatigable exertions, and patience

[Colmun 2]

without any limit, with a firm reliance upon
our Heavenly Father for guidance, strength,
and the necessary qualifications to fit us for the
duties of the mission. I can see two or three
different ways in which I could spend every mo-
ment of my time to good advantage, but have
to content myself with doing what I can and
letting the rest go undone. Our Conference
and the visit of the king passed off with an ex-
cellent spirit, and in a satisfactory manner in
every respect; we all regretted the absence of
the queen, who was unavoidably deterred from
coming by the serious illness of her sister, the
governess of Hawaii, who also intended com-
ing until she was taken sick. I will leave an ac-
count of the reception of the king to more in-
teresting correspondents than myself.
	A Primary Association was organized by
President Partridge, on the 19th of August,
Mrs. S. L. Partridge acting as President for
the present, and Mrs. Armeda S. Young First
Counselor, and Hanaa, native woman, Second
Counselor, and Victoria Kekauoha, Secretary
for the native language, Ernest Partridge in
the English, with 39 names enrolled. Here
again is the difficulty of trying to teach child-
ren without having sufficient knowledge of the
language to explain things in clearness and
the perfect understanding of the children;
however, we can only do our best, trusting that
the Lord will bless our efforts. We are very
much in need of cards and books, so as to assist
us in making our meetings interesting to the
children, also to ourselves.
	Wishing the EXPONENT every success, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel,
	S. L. PARTRIDGE.

	LEWISTON, CACHE COUNTY Y. L. M. I. A.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A meeting was held for the reorganization of
our association on the 29th of June, 1883.
The following officers were elected: Mrs Re-
becca Rawlins, President; Mrs. Anna E. Funk,
First Counselor; Miss Louisa Waddoups,
Second Counselor; Mrs. Sarah A. Orchard,
Secretary; Miss Emma Kemp, Assistant Secre-
tary; Eliza J. Stephenson, Treasurer and Li-
barian. We have thirty-four names enrolled;
our average attendance is twenty-two; we hold
our meetings once in two weeks, and have very
good meetings. The young sisters all take a
part in helping to make our meetings interest-
ing, and try to do whatever they are called up-
on. As an association we are trying to im-
prove our minds, and learn the ways of the
Lord. Our meetings consist of speaking, reci-
tations, essays, songs readings, etc.
	Wishing for the success of the EXPONENT, I
remain your sister in the Gospel,
	SARAH A. ORCHARD, Secretary.


HYRUM PRIMARY FAIR.

	The Primary Association of Hyrum held a
Fair in the school house on Tuesday, Oct. 2nd,
ult., under the presidency of Lucy Wilson and
Georgina Ralph.
	This is the first fair held in Hyrum by the
Primary. The young ladies also took part,
and had a stand for the Y. L. M. I. A. It
was a pleasant and enjoyable affair, showing
the interest and industry of what little hands
can do. The articles exhibited were of the
usual kind, tidies, mottoes, wool flowers, pin-
cushions, one skein of home-spun silk by a lit-
tle girl aged seven. To enumerate them all
would be impossible; there was everything,
from a miniature parasol to a bed quilt.
Every one present expressed their surprise at
seeing how much the little ones could do.
	On the young ladies' stand were a great
many useful and ornamental articles. A cro-
cheted jacket, breakfast shawl and ladies'


hood, by Mrs. Bevans, equal to any imported.
A very pretty crocheted petticoat by Miss
Rolfson. One thing worthy of special notice
was a charming bouquet of natural flowers,
they were beautifully and artistically ar-
ranged, showing great skill and ability, by
Georgina Ralph. There was needle work,
quilts, carpets and many other thinga made by
the young ladies.
	A Primary meeting was held at two p.m.
After the usual opening exercises the children
took up some time in songs, recitations, etc.
	The Association was then divided into three
districts. Sister Alice Unsworth to have
charge over the first district; Sister Lucy Wil-
son over the second; and Sister Maria Hansen
over the third. The meeting was then ad-
dressed by Bishop S. M. Molen, Brother Col-
lins of Bear Lake, Sister Jane E. Molen,
Stake President, President Lucy Wilson, and
Sister Parkinson, President of the Wellsville
Primary. All were well pleased and spoke
encouragingly to those present.
	Meeting was then dismissed. Benediction
by James Unsworth.
	Wishing the success of the EXPONENT,
			Your sister in the Gospel,
				ALICE UNSWORTH, Cor. Sec.


PRIMARY FAIR.

	The Primary Association of Lehi City, Utah
County, held a very pleasing Fair, beginning
Friday, Oct. 19th. In all respects it was a de-
lightful show of the handiwork of the children.
Each district held articles of peculiar interest.
To enumerate them all would be utterly impos-
sible; it was quite marvelous what they could
do in regard to cooking, such as plum puddings,
pies, sponge cakes, jelly cakes, rice pudding,
cooked chickens, jelly, preserves and different
kinds of pickles and beautiful bread and but-
ter.
	A very nice show of wool flowers were given
on the occasion. One globe of wool flowers
was made by the First District to be donated
to the Temple; also three very nice quilts made
by the First, Second and Third Districts to be
presented to the Deseret Hospital. There was
some nice plain needle work, such as children's
dresses, pillow cases, down to netting and darn-
ing. There was a splendid show of rugs, tidies,
lily mats, daisy mats, mottoes, paper work in
the shape of lanterns, stars, wreaths, chains
and pen wipers. Though the girls had a
greater display the boys came in for a large
share of the praise. There was some splendid
carpenter work, and among the rest was a
threshing machine, made by a boy 14 years of
age, and a cupboard, book case, clock shelf,
corner brackets, reel, tool box and saw, made
by boys from 12 to 14 years of age. There was
a beautiful show of agriculture, such as fine
squash, cabbage, potatoes, red peppers, beets,
turnips, cucumbers, beans, onions, and a num-
ber of other useful things grown by the child-
ren of the Primary.
			SARAH A. BALL, Secretary.


ITEMS OF A LETTER FROM
BELLE M. JOHNSON.

TEMPE, Arizona.

	Yesterday a small company came over from
Tempe and we all went into the hills to see
the ruins of a large town that lies between
here and Phoenix. I wish I could describe
the loveliness of the scenery around and be-
yond them. It was late and we did not have
time to go over the town, only stopping at two
ruins, the first a building seventy or eighty feet
square, with a long hall on the south, and the
north divided into apartments, so the crumb-
ling rocks showed. But the most imposing is
a ruin at least 300 feet long by 150 wide—


that is guessing, which has an outer wall leav-
ng a space between for a wide drive perfect-
ly distinct, the corners as plainly visible as
ever they were. It must have been a stupen-
dous building, standing upon a solid mass at
least ten feet high, with two round elevations
on the north side still higher, probably towers;
it must either have been a temple, a king's res-
idence or a place of refuge for the whole city,
which is large. A large room on the east, out-
side the outer wall, built into it, has
been partly excavated and shows that the
place was destroyed by fire, as layers on layers
of ashes fill the centre, with blackened sea
shells as well as some not blackened, which
have been thrown out.
	The pottery here is of a better quality, also
being painted, and every thing shows it to
have been a place of importance. I had
strange feelings as I walked over their grave
of the past, and wondered what scenes had
been enacted there. Any one could spend
days at that place and not be satisfied, and it
is only one of many such in this country. I
would like to study up the Book of Mormon
now. We are plainly traveling in the tracks
of the Nephites. I could not sleep last night
for studying and thinking about that place,
and longing to know its history. A poem
written on that ancient pile ought to be grand.
We are living on the south side of a range
of hills that become ambitious now and then
and almost look like mountains; there are plen-
ty of quails, rabbits, coyotes and rattlesnakes
in them, and plenty of lovely little spots up
the gulches, minus water, besides strong indi-
cations of gold. The most fault I have to find
with the country is its partiality for thorns;
not content with supplying every native tree
with them, besides a half a dozen kinds of cac-
tus, they grow out of the ground in balls, just
like flowers do in other countries, and woe to
the barefoot or thin soled traveler who comes
in contact with them. It would make you
start to see one of our toads, they will about
fill a good sized wash dish comfortably. Just
imagine one of these pets hopping about the
house catching flies; lizards are plentiful, from
the little white ring-tailed variety to the Gila
monster, but we considered them nice little
pets since rattlesnake season commenced.
	While looking at the giant, thorny cactus I
often think of the poor man, Brother C. R.
Savage, perched up in one of them for a photo,
and think if he was going to set me up in one
I would speak to have it well covered with
sheet iron, wouldn't you?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 87


[Column 1]
PEOPLE WE MEET.

	In this great world there are various ways
of gaining knowledge. It is often said
knowledge is obtained from books, or by means
of education, meaning such as one gets in the
schools. In one sense of the word this is part-
ly true, but it is very far from being the whole
truth. There are many other methods of ob-
taining knowledge. We hear a gerat deal in
the present day about self-made people, not-
withstanding all the schools, colleges and uni-
versities that cover the land, and from whence
the light of science beams with refulgent rays,
yet after all, these highly educated, college-
learned men seldom make so successful a mark
in the world, as those who struggling with ad-
verse surroundings develop those persistently
enduring qualities that are sure to grapple
with untoward circumstances, and overcome
what would be to the weak insurmountable
obstacles. It is true that experience is a dear
school, and it is also perfectly true tbat its les-
sons are far more impressive than those learned
from books.
	Not to undervalue book education, for that
I would not do, still there are many people who

[Column 2]
know more and can entertain and edify those
they come in contact with, much better than
men of profound learning. It is very pleasant
to be able to learn from people; one of the best
studies in the world is that of human nature as
we find it in the people we meet. And when
we add to that the varied experiences of differ-
ent individuals as they become known to us,
and the many interesting incidents that char-
acterize the life of every person whose history
is worth knowing, what a vast fund of infor-
mation is contained therein.
	For instance, we meet a lady whose life has
been apart from ours, one whom we had never
heard of, and she tells us something of her life-
experience, her peculiar circumstances, we be-
come intensely interested, she has traveled in
foreign lands, seen much of society in the high-
er circles and also associated herself as a phil-
anthropist among the humble, the needy and
the distressed. From her we learn many use-
ful lessons. We find her well posted in the
affairs of the nation, and able to converse in
telligently about the government and the poli-
cy of its statesmen, yet having a personal his-
tory full of material worthy a place in the li-
brary of the novelist. She tells us of the
noble self-sacrifices of her friends who are
striving to elevate others, of their struggles
against the sneers and reproaches of those who
live narrow and selfish lives. O, what
nobility of purpose nerves those, who in the
face of cruel opposition stand boldly forth and
proudly conscious of their superior power to
rise above the common conditions of mortals,
receive from those to whom their ministra-
tions seem almost divine the love and affection
that more than repays them for any annoyance
or self-denial it has caused. The story of a life;
what is it? It is the most intensely interest-
ing, thrilling and pathetic of anything that we
could possibly imagine, no matter whether the
person has traveled by land and sea, or
whether the life has been passed in a country
town without any great changes or interrup-
tions, it still has that peculiarly fascinating
charm that will draw around it that which
awakens the tender emotions of the heart. Let
half a dozen people meet together and each
one tell her peculiar experiences, what a vol-
ume is contained in the simple recitals, and
how much we may avoid what is evil, if we
heed the lessons thus given, or on the other
hand, what incentives there seem to be to pur-
sue an upright, onward course in the attain-
ment of the highest good possible. In this
way we may daily advance in the pursuit of
knowledge; but to do so we must actually
think, must concentrate our ideas, and devote
our energies in the direction to which we as-
pire; a careless, thoughtless person will never
accomplish much, for whatever one does there
must of necessity be work in it.
	We are always telling our young people to
read the biographies of distinguished people,
there is so much to be learned from them; that is
all very true, and the advice is quite proper, but
there is really much to be learned from the
people we meet every day, if we have the fac-
ulty to discern and study character. Not only
that, but the manner and appearance make an
impression, and one desires to emulate that
which is perfect in everything. The society
we associate with helps us to be better or we
retrograde. Improvement is the aim of all
who have even ordinary ambition, and when I
say improvement I do not mean alone in mind,
but in all that helps to make men and women
more perfect in every acquirement, and to be
able to help others as well as themselves. And
I argue that every good and great man or
woman does help mankind, and it should be
the desire of every Latter-day Saint to make
the most of the opportunities given, and in fact
not to wait for opportunities to come, but to
push forward and do all in his or her power

[Column 3]
to obtain knowledge on all subjects in every
way that is right and proper, and above all
ask God for wisdom to aid in the search for
knowledge, and to help us to discriminate be-
tween that which will ennoble and exalt and
that which will be of no advantage here or
hereafter. Seek to emulate those who have
given us the best examples, and look among
men of our own day and time. It is very
common to refer to those who have lived long
ago, patterns of excellence, and to ignore the
good and pure and noble of our own day.
The people we meet in the daily walks of life,
those who are really worth cultivating will
have power to influence us for good in some
direction, if only in our deportment, or con-
versation.
	If we are to prepare ourselves to associate
with angels and holy beings, and this is what
a saint aspires to, we cannot begin too soon,
and laying aside all that is frivolous and emp-
ty, do honor to the position we occupy on this
earth and prepare for an exaltation in the fu-
ture, which we can only obtain by our faith-
fulness, diligence and fervor in all good works.
							AUNT EM.


﻿FOR THE JOURNAL.

	Right has always met with oppression when
advocated by the few, yet. where that few have
stood with firmness and integrity to their
canse, triumph has been their reward. I do
not know of any time when this has been
shown more forcibly than in the early settle-
ment of America. The Puritans were a peo-
ple, it seems to me, who were directed by the
hand of God to take the course they did. They
were a conscientious, God-fearing people. A
people, too, who felt that they had a right to
worship Him in accordance with the inmost
promptings of their hearts. This they could
not do in that land where they then dwelt,
(being persecuted and driven from one place
to another) so they sought America, not be-
cause of its advantages, or comforts as a dwel-
ling place, but that they might enjoy their
rights unmolested. They left their homes,
and with hopeful, prayerful hearts started out
on their journey, not knowing that they would
ever arrive at the destination they sought, yet
trusting in God for their guidance.
	They reached the land and in time prospered
and grew. In after years, when the revolu-
tion broke out, this spirit of right was still a
prominent feature in the character of the Amer-
ican people. The majority of them had come
to this land that they might live in accordance
with the dictates of their consciences. So great
was the desire to maintain this that they fought
for freedom of conscience, and many of them
died for it. Then to make its establishment
more sure, it was made one of the articles of
our Constitution, that "Congress shall make no
law respecting an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof." This
was a liberty of which no other nation could
boast, and which has been a bright and shining
ornament to America, because it was a right
and just law. We have men in the halls of
Congress to-day who say they are proud of the
fact that they are Americans; who are proud to
tell of her liberty and her freedom; and these
very men are trampling into the dust the laws
of the Constitution and enacting in their stead
others contrary to the spirit of it, for the pur-
pose of oppressing, and finally driving the peo-
ple of Utah; and all because our religious
views do not coincide with theirs, and because
we choose to worship God as He has command-
ed that we shall. The Latter-day Saints are a
very few compared with fifty millions of peo-
ple; but we have the satisfaction of knowing
that we have right on our side, and the prom-
ise of Him whose word can never fail, that if


we do our duty faithfully we need fear no evil;
for He has established His Kingdom. never
more to be thrown down.		L. A. S.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal,
Nephi, Utah.


88	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿IN MEMORIAM.

	In loving remembrance of Ella Olivia, beloved
daughter of Benjamin W. and Olivia Pratt
Driggs, who died at Plessant Grove, Oct. 21st.
1883, aged twenty-three years, six months and
twenty-one days.
	Our dear one has gone, though we can scarcely
realize the extent of our loss in the suddeness of
our bereavement. But when we visit the fam-
iliar places where we have been acustomed to
see her, we will miss the bright face, the gay
smile and the pleasant word that always greeted
us. We will miss her sweet voice in our sacred
worship, in our social reunions, in our griefs and
in our joys. And her last song was, "Think of
me kindly when I am gone." We will think
kindly of darling Ella every time we hear one of
the hundreds of sweet songs she sang.
	It was hard to say our sad farewell, and to see
her borne from the loving gaze of family and
friends in the fair bloom of her youth, but we do
not think of her with sorrow inconsolable, for
we know that she is happy with the blest, and
we feel as our sweet friend used to sing, "He
doeth all things well."
Farewell, dear Ella, sorrowing hearts now almost
	breaking,
	Would fain have kept thee had it been His will;
But since thy spirit is of heavenly joys partaking,
	The thought of thy blest lot our hearts with peace
	shall fill.

	DIED, at Enterprise, Morgan Co., September 14th,
1883, Sister Margaret Kirkman Green, after long pro-
tracted suffering, which she bore with great fortitude.
	She was born April 17th, 1817, at Manchester, Eng-
land, and when three years of age went with her par-
ents to Africa, she there joined the Church, being bap-
tized at Fort Beaufort, South Africa, 1854. Emigrated
to Utah in 1863 with five children and a granddaughter,
leaving her husband whom she expected would follow
the next year, but he never came; he died about a year
ago. She has one married daughter still in Africa.
	At the organization of the Relief Society of Enter-
prise Ward Sister Green was chosen President, and
faithfully discharged the duties of that position until
long continued sickness caused her to resign.
	She was a true and affectionate mother and a faithful
friend. Her faith in the Gospel was firm to the last.
						MARY HALL, Secretary.

	IN memory of Emma Olivia Croft, wife of John Croft
of Enterprise, Morgan Co., who died of dropsy and
heart disease September 29th, 1883. Sister Croft was
President of the Ward Relief Society, having been ap-
pointed to that position on the resignation of the late
Sister Green. She was also an able assistant in the
Sunday School, a duty she took great delight in. Dur-
ing her last illness she expressed a wish that the child-
ren should attend her funeral and strew flowers into
her grave, which request was complied with. She was
born at Rolston, Staffordshire, England, Feb. 16th, 1821.
Her many excellent qualities and good actions will long
be remembered by those who knew her.
							MARY HALL, Secretary.

	DIED, at the residence of her daughter in the 2nd
Ward, Salt Lake City, Mrs. Mary Laird, on October 20th
1883, of pneumonia.
	Deceased was born July 3rd, 1826, in Kilpatrick, Par-
ish of Kilpatrick, Denfrewshire, Scotland. Baptized in-
to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on
November 22nd, 1843, under the hands of James Thom-
son, Glasgow Branch, Scotland. She was the daughter
of Hugh Renney and Elizabeth Checlman. She was
married to James Laird August 27th, 1847, at Darby,
Scotland. Emigrated to America in November, 1856,
Crossed the plains in J. G. Wooley's handcart company.
She lived at Mountain Dell Ward, and was President
of the Relief Society there. She leaves to mourn her
departure a loving husband, two sons, two daughters

[Column 2]
and twenty-two grand children. She was the mother
of four sons and six daughters. She lived and died a
faithful Latter-day Saint, looking forward to all the
promises of God pertaining to His latter-day work.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Susan Clay-
son, who departed this life October 16th, 1883.
	Whereas an alwise Providence has called from us by
the hand of death our beloved sister,
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our sis-
ter, Susan Clayson, the loss of an able, efficient and
worthy counselor of the Primary Association and teach-
er of the Relief Society of Payson Ward.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors and
devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and highest
respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved family and friends in the loss of a
kind wife, affectionate mother, and a good and respect-
ed citizen.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy of the same be furnished the
bereaved family, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and the
Territorial Enquirer for publication.
	Fannie Sargent, Matilda Dixon, Sarah Brewerton,
Amy Hancock, Presidents of the four districts of Pay-
son Ward.
				Yours Respectfully,
					MILLIE STARKER, Secretary.


The Woman's Congress and the Illinois So-
cial Science Association have both been in ses-
sion in Chicago during October.
	The Woman Suffragists feel a little exultant
over the triumph of their cause in Washing-
ton Territory Legislature, October 17th, when
the majority vote was in favor of the ballot
for women.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA H. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,		1.50	"

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, South Temple Street, one
block and a half west of the Valley House.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Contitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
flannels,	WhiteYarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yams,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS.
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜


[Handwritten "Hannah Hall"]

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

