VOL. 12.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. APRIL 15, 1884. No. 22.


"LET THERE BE LIGHT"

Light!—what a world of wealth is light!
In all its grandeur, all its might.
Light is indeed direct from heaven,
The grandest boon to mortals given;
A symbol of Jehovah's smile,
That nought can sully or defile;
An emblem of the realms above,
Engendering life, and health, and love.
Without a stain it travels space,
It—nought can injure or deface;
It blesses earth with vivid ray,
And life in varied forms obey;
And wheresoever it may shine
It tells of life and light divine.
	This genial, life engendering light,
	Brings untold beauties into sight.
No blade of grass could raise its head,
No floweret leave its leafy bed,
Did not this light upon it shine,
The very breath of life divine!
Imagine if this orb of day
Was from our planet drawn away,
Engulfing all this beauteous world
In lurid darkness to be hurled!
And death and blackness like a pall
Enshrouding all this glorious ball.
The very thought arrests our breath,
So monstrous is the scene of death.
Yet day by day we see it rise
In grandeur in the eastern skies;
Yet seldom think our heart to raise
In grateful and adoring praise,
For that command "Let there by light!"
The smile of God dispersing night.

"Walk as children of the light."
In the light that God has made;
In the sunshine—not the shade—
Light that nothing can obscure,
Light that ever shall endure;
Light! the very smile of God!
Revolving even round His rod;
"As the children of the light"
Let us walk through day and night.
							HANNAH T. KING.

Salt Lake City, April 4th, 1884.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

BY A GENTILE.

Feb. 23rd, 1884.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	My homeward passage was very gratifying in
deed over a new line of road to me, and new
scenery to interest. I made some slight notes of
this trip, which were published in the Capital,
a daily I write for occasionally.
	Since my return I have read every thing-
you gave me to Mrs. C——. Have examined
it thoroughly, and comparing the written state-
ments with my observed facts while in your
city and Territory came to the conclusion that
you were truthful and of "good intent," to say
the least. Mrs. C.'s feelings were evidently
softened towards her sisters in "Salt Lake"
when she came to know your side of the story
—before she had only read and heard the oth-
er side, much of it from the book published by
Ann Eliza the 19th. How hard it is to do
justice to ourselves, even when ancient preju-
dice triumphs. Mrs. C. is utterly opposed to the
Edmund's bill project of disfrachisement, and
we shall both fight it to the bitter end, and so
will most of our co-workers in Boston and
elsewhere.
	Among the statements I have made since

[Column 2]
my return is the following, which has made me
rather obnoxious to some of my former repub-
lican associates, I can afford to lose them all,
however, for truth and justice is worth more to
me than compromised friendship. I stated
that crime and prostitution was more than 80
per cent committed by the (so termed) Gentile
population of Utah; which statement I still feel
able to sustain. This was astounding to them,
for they had an idea and thought they knew, it
was precisely the reverse. This, of course,
they did not permit to enter the columns of
the papers, for what is published in the papers
here has a great effect on the average reader.
I also stated that all the "rum holes" in Salt
Lake City, with the exception of two, so far
as I could learn, were kept by the non-Mor-
mon population. This I adhere to yet; am I
right? Another statement whihc was equally
appalling, that all the houses of 	*	*	as
known to the police force, were kept by non-
Mormons, and as far as I could learn, by Roman
Catholic Christians. Can I sustain this? An-
other, that the soldiers of Camp Douglas had
nothing to do but drink whiskey, visit places of
amusement, etc.
	Another thing, they had in the territorial
prison in Salt Lake 62 prisoners of the rough-
est kind of criminal men, except two, and they
were and innocent woman and child, placed
there for no other reason under heaven than
that of refusing to tell who was the father of
that child. Incarcerated in that cile prison
house with sixty as vile creatures as God ever
suffered in the shape of men. A pure, clean-
looking and evidently virtuous woman with a
beautiful child just beginning to learn to walk,
kept in there and guarded as a felon, because
the majesty of the law so ordered it, accusing
her of having insulted their dignity by refus-
ing to answer their insolent questions. I told
them of the polling places, of the women voting,
and of the good behavior observed at the polls.
That the people came well dressd and with
clean faces and calm deportment-- that there
was no hurry or rowdyism permitted there, be-
cause it was as much a woman's election as a
man's. That the women seemed to understand
what they were voting for and who they were
voting for as well as the men, and that no such
quiet voting places were to be seen in any of
the states wherever I had been-- and I had
been in nearly all of them. I found one man
here in	*	*	filling an honorable place
(or what it ought to be) who did not know even
that the women voted in Utah. The great ar-
gument has been that you are all growing
up in ignorance on account of your poor school
system, but when I told them that Utah stood
nearly as high in educational status as the
people of Massachusetts, (using a nautical
phrase) they were all taken aback.
	Now the facts of my observations are, that
for the seven weeks I spent in your beautiful
city, I saw more wickedness, badness among
the gentiles than the Mormons. The Mormon
ideas of religion seem very absurd to me. If
it were mere children's play it would seem
more in place, but for the plan and way of sal-
vation it to me is simply ridiculous, yet no
more so than all others I have expamined. It
may be the best for aught I know, but I say,
it seems to me very foolish and absurd.
	You have as much argument in favor of
your method as any of the rest have, as far as
I can see. And if a tree is to be known by
its fruits, I must say that yours looks as sound
to me as any I see anywhere in the world. I
have tried to see wherein you were traitors to
the governmment, but cannot make it out, al-
thogh you were denounced as such.
	If you would abandon ONE practice, you
would be one of the most prosperous people in
the world, in my opinion, for the other points
of your religion, or many of them, teach fru-
gality, protection to each othe and a system of
complete and universal industry. I hope the
time is not far distant when you will all see this
matter in what I believe to be the true light
and abandon a practice which will surely en-
tail upon you lasting troubles of various kinds.
While in your city I received from your peo-
ple the kindest and gentlest of treatment, and
I shall never cease to thank you for it, and I
shall doubtless cherish a sort of fraternal feel-
ing for your people to the day of my death. I
hope for your success and that you will purify
and purge from your body corporate all the
evils of life as fast as you find them out-- be
radical in this; don't hesitate to do right,
though the "heavens fall." I shall aid you in
it all I can and ever protest against our gov-
ernemnt planning or taking action to deprive
you of your just and lawful rights.
	Mrs. C. is away on a lecturing tour; will be
home in a week and remain at home, I hope,
till summer. The legislature has done well for
temperance in the Senate, we hope it will in
the house; and we hope they will submit the
suffrage amendment to the people's vote. We
shall see!
	Please remember me to Mr. Wells and the
rest of the family; and remember me for your-
self as a fraternal friend in all just work.
							J. B. C.


A WOMAN'S TESTIMONY.

	"There is a way which seemeth right unto man,
but the end thereof is death."

	When I read of the unconstitutional efforts
made by those who are not of us to overthrow
the work the Lord has commenced to bring
about, the great and last dispensation of the
fulness of times, this passage of Scripture oc-
curs to my mind: "The wisdom of their
wise men shall perish." It stimulates me to
renewed diligence and zeal. We have been
taught to expect persecution, and many things
that the Prophet Joseph foretold are rushing to
fulfilment, which indicates a crisis at hand.
	In the fall of 1840 I was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
My father was a most upright man and taught
his children to be so. He did not believe in
the religions of the day, but would say, "It is
good to go to church and pray, but the true
priesthood is not with us." These remarks led
me to reflect, and I discovered, so far as I had
the opportunity, that all the Christian denom-
inations embraced some truths, but none of
them were in accord with the Scriptures of the
New Testament.
	I read the Bible with avidity, and would
ponder on the "gathering of Israel from the
four corners of the earth, etc.," and queried,
when will these things be?
	I went to our venerable clergyman with my
doubts about our method of baptism. He was
kind, and lent me books on the subject. I was
not, at that time, aware that the Lord was pre-
paring my mind to receive the Gospel of Jesus
Christ at the hands of an Elder, authorized by


the Holy Priesthood to administer the ordin-
ances. He was slow to introduce the subject,
and I looked upon him as deluded until I be-
gan to investigate, when I became alarmed lest
it should be true. Then what should I do?
Must I give up all—kindred, friends, society
and the comforts of life? This seemed to be
the sacrifice required, and which I cheerfully
accepted, and have ever been thankful to be
numbered with the children of God.
	The signs of the times are very manifest that
the dawning of a brighter day for the Saints
is approaching more rapidly than many are a-
ware. Darkness precedes the light. The ad-
versary fears and trembles, for his time is short.
"The kingdoms of this world shall become the
kingdoms of our Lord and His Christ," and
all the efforts of the puny arm of flesh cannot
stay the work of the Lord; the sooner their cup
of iniquity is filled, the more it will hasten the
redemption of Zion, and His people will be
free.
	President Taylor was not afraid to accom-
pany the Prophet Joseph and his noble breth-
ren to prison where death awaited them at the
hands of a murderous mob, and that, because
they worshiped the true and living God, and
for none other cause. A watch worn by Presi-
dent Taylor providentially saved his life, the
bullet aimed striking the watch instead of his
heart; he was already wounded, almost unto
death, and is to-day a living martyr. Neither
will he fear the advance of a similar foe in a
different form, for God is with him and with
His people.
	The Lord will permit those who are seeking
to destroy and scatter His people to accom-
plish His will, and thus far can they go, and no
further. Then will He sanctify His children,
and "make the wrath of man to praise Him.,"
	There may be some who think they are do-
ing God's service, but it is said, "There is a
way which seemeth right unto man, but the
end thereof is death."
	Oh! that men, and women too, would con-
sider before they enter such a perilous barque
and make shipwreck of their souls for it is a
fearful thing to measure arms with the Al-
mighty.
	God bless our brethren who are laboring so
faithfully for the good of Zion, and our sis-
ters are not idle, all are anxious to win souls
to a knowledge of the truth as it is in Jesus.
Amen.					M. A. P. HYDE.


170	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(To be Continued.)

	We started from this place about eight a.m.,
and on ascending the opposite hill saw that
President B. Young had not yet started, so our
company stopped and waited till their teams
had got out of the way, when we went on,
crossing the bridge which they had just built.
"This," Horace says, "like the one at the
"Sleeping Rock," had no other foundation than
floodwood."
	We passed through the timber, and after
crossing a small bottom and ascending a hill on
the opposite side of the river, there we saw a
grave, which was covered with logs laid up in
an oblong form and about three feet high,
something like a log building. The stream we
crossed was called by the Indians the "Nishinie
Botany Run." We were told that the grave
we saw was that of one of the brethren in Bro.
Wright's company. We stopped again about
noon and baited our cattle while waiting for a
bridge to be finished, and camped that night
on a "divide" near timber, with quite a large
creek on one side and a branch of the same on
the other. Here we met Bro. Cummings, who
had come from Council Bluffs the day before,

[Column 2]
with the information that Bro. Emmet's com-
pany were thirty miles below the Bluffs on
the river, and had taken jobs of work there in
order to get provisions to prosecute their jour-
ney. He also said that twelve wagons, "Mor-
mons," had come up from St. Louis, and that
a U. S. officer had told them that he was order-
ed to prohibit all suspicious persons from cross-
ing the State line, hinting that the "Mormons"
were the persons meant.
	Friday, 12th. We were not able to start
till nearly noon, having to build another bridge.
Early in the morning father called the people
of the camp together and selected twenty-five
men to go to work at the bridge. President
Young and Bishop Miller also assisted; they
were encamped within a short distance of
us.
	"Saturday, 31st," Horace wrote, "we were
detained this morning about the same length of
time we were yesterday morning in building a
bridge—we then started—the weather sultry.
We stopped about two o'clock p.m., baited our
cattle, and had to drive them about a mile to
water, in fact there has been so much dry
weather and so little rain in this part that
there is a great drought throughout the coun-
try.	*	*	*	Bro. K. went ahead
to look out a good camping ground, he return-
ed, having found one, and we all started and
went a mile and a half further—somewhat out
of our way in order to have a good place for
our cattle."
	According to Horace's journal we were now
in sight of Council Bluffs on "Musquito
Creek," where they had to stop to build another
bridge before we could proceed further, and
then we had to retrace our steps and travel six
miles round to accomplish the two miles a-
cross to the river.
	Horace wrote: "Traveled about ten miles to-
day. We found another beautiful spring of
water in this place, in fact the ground here ap-
pears to be full of springs. The scenery a-
round us is entirely different from that through
which we have hitherto been traveling, abound-
ing in hills and dales and murmuring rivulets
aud considerably resembles that of the New
England States."
	The heat of the weather was now at its
height, and the whole country around abound-
ed in straw-berries, rasp-berries and black-ber-
ries, and other fruits indigenous to the coun-
try; and the day following our arrival there a
number of our girls went out strawberrying.
this was Sunday, and father rode over about a
mile to President Young's camp, and learned
there that Bishop Miller had been to see the a-
gents, who agreed to furnish spokes and pitch
for the building of a ferry boat; if, after the
church had all crossed, they would give it up
to them. They wished us to have nothing to
say to the Indians in the way of tampering
with them. Our companies had no disposition
to do this, but it was nothing strange that they
should view us, or any other white people, with
suspicion, for they had generally been mean
and dishonest in their dealings with the
Indians; besides, they had been warned by a
United States officer to beware of us, but we
had too much at stake to take advantage of
the tribes, traveling as we were through their
Territories.
	There were certain ones in camp at the early
start who received severe rebukes from the
Presidency for being dishonest. One was the
case of a young man in Bishop Miller's camp,
who undertook to pass counterfeit money in
pay for cattle, etc. The Bishop wrote to Presi-
dent Young to excuse the young man, but
wished him to make restitution to Mr. Cochran,
the man who had been cheated by him—but
for which the Bishop received an awful rebuke,
aud was ordered to restore the property. It
was soon discovered that such characters were
not wanted among us, nor were they to be sus-

[Column 3]
tained in the camp, for the most strict laws and
rules were laid down in their council held at
Chariton, where they organized the camp.
Here are a few words from President Young's
remarks, made on the following Sabbath: "I
told them I was satisfied that the course we
were taking would prove to be the salvation,
not only of this camp, but of the Saints left
behind; but there had been things done which
were wrong. Some pleaded our suffering from
persecution, and the loss of our houses and
property, as a justification for retaliating upon
our enemies, but such a course tends to des-
troy the Kingdom of God."
	The whole of the camp started in the after-
noon and encamped on the bank of the Mis-
souri River about a mile above the trading
houses, where we saw a number of Indians and
half-breeds, who were riding about accompan-
ied by the agent, trading horses at the settle-
ment below.
	"Soon after our arrival," Horace wrote, "the
brethren met in council on the bank of the
river, to lay down certain rules for our observ-
ance while we remain here. They are as fol-
lows: Every fourth man is to assist in build-
ing the boat; one or two out of each ten to
herd cattle; while others are to go out in the
country to trade for provisions. There was a
committee of three appointed, viz., father,
Brother Rockwood and Bishop Miller, to wait
on the agents and ascertain the prices of things;
meanwhile no man is permitted to have any
traffic with the inhabitants or Indians without
having permission so to do from the proper
source."


﻿BLOOMINGTON, IDAHO.

DEAR EDITOR
	As I am about to retire from the presidency
of the Bloomington Primary Association by
permission and counsel of the presidency of
the stake, in consequence of nervous debility,
I take this opportunity of responding to the re-
quest you made some time since, and give you
a brief description of the association above
named, over which I have had the honor to
preside since its organization on June 14th,
1879, to the present time.
	We labored under the direction of J. P.
Lindsay and Counselors until a stake organiza-
tion was effected, with the following officers:
Annie Laker, President; Elizabeth Pugmire
and Elizabeth Hunt, Counselors.
	We have 125 members enrolled, with an
average attendance of 50; we have held our
meetinge weekly, and I am confident the Lord
has blessed us in our efforts from the active
part the members have taken, and the general
good feeling that has characterized our associa-
tion. We found it very difficult to get any
expression of feeling from the members, owing
to their diffidence, so we added to the exercises
an opening and closing address, and found they
worked admirably, thus inciting the older
children to think for themselves, and affording
them opportunities of expressing their thoughts
and exercising themselves in public; and in or-
der to vary ourexercises we have taken the
names of those who were not present to res-
pond to programme, and have them give the
cause of absence.
	We have a library in our association cost-
ing $18, and we have deposited to our credit in
the Liverpool Office $18 for the emigration of
some needy child. We have also donated
to the Logan Temple $8, and have on hand $7
besides property.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
				L. M. HART, President.
	Mary Patterson and Louisa Stephens,
Counselors; Phebn A. Holme, Secretary;
Mary Kroque, Assistant Secretary; Sarah
Patterson, Treasurer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 171


THOUGHTS ON THE FUTURE LIFE.

BY M. A. GREENHALGH.

When will this dream of life be o'er,
When shall I sleep to wake no more?
And when I sleep beneath the sod
Shall I ere wake to meet my God?
Or shall I sleep an endless sleep,
The sleep of death, that slumber deep,
Which knows no waking for the soul,
Sleep that annihilates the whole?
Oh! no, my soul, that stern decree
Hath not gone forth. Mark yonder tree;
Tho' death hath laid its branches low,
Life yet from out its dust shall grow.
So when this feeble body's laid
In kindred dust within the glade,
Those springing from the grave shalt gain
A life from death, a home again.
Perhaps from out some glittering star
Thou'lt gaze upon this world from far,
And wonder how that tiny ball
Could ere have held the soul in thrall,
Or from some sphere of flowing light,
Where day eternal drives the night,
Thou'lt watch this much loved mortal world
To chaos and to ruin hurled,
Nor shed a single pitying tear
O'er what was once esteemed so dear.
Oh, why should I, then, fear to lay
This worthless dust in kindred clay,
Since God, Himself, the promise gave
That I should live beyond the grave.
He gave that promise ere He sent
My spirit here to dwell, or lent
My soul a home, where it may grow
In faith, and grace, and love below,
Till after pain and pleasure o'er
I stand on death's unfathomed shore
To wait the raising of the veil,
Knowing God's promises ne'er fail.
Oh, may I, then, the means improve
To keep my heavenly father's love;
He sent me here a cross to bear,
And all His children's trials share;
Use every talent He has given
To lead my sisters on toward heaven.
Then I my Savior's face may see,
That Brother who has died for me;
And when He comes on earth to reign
I may be there to swell His strain,
To live that thousand years of peace,
When sin and sorrow find surcease,
Still tarry with those Saints who wait
His advent at the golden gate,
And find myself uplifted high
To share His immortality.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO SWEDEN.

	How well I remember two years ago to-day,
when I was on a visit to Sweden at my pater-
nal home, it was the last day I was to be at my
mother's, and my brothers and sisters were
there, and the sweet little children of my bro-
ther's. O, how many times I took them in my
arms and kissed them good-bye on that grand
day in my native land; it was a midsummer
day, when everything is so beautiful in that
country. The fields were all in blossom and
the songs of birds of various kinds made such
sweet melody in the early morning. It was
such an enjoyment to be among our friends
and partake with them of the good things pre-
pared to nourish and strengthen the body,
which they so hospitably extended for our
comfort. Oh, that warm-hearted people, rich
and poor giving bountifully as I visited them
from place to place talking about the Gospel;
how my heart did burn with love for them,
talking with them sometimes by the wayside,
or passing by the waters of the beautiful
streams of my dear native land, oh, how I felt
a deep desire that they might wish to be bap-
tized, may that seed of the Gospel which was
sown in their hearts, grow, and the time come
when they will be ready to embrace it. I [---]

[Column 2]
feel the love of a kind-hearted Father in heaven
for his children here upon earth.
	The people in Sweden are a very industrious
and hard-working people, but work for very
small wages—women and children as well as
men; we saw small boys about seven years old
and upwards with two heavy buckets to gather
the precious mineral out of the large copper
mines in the city of Falen, their little, tender
fingers among the rough ore.
	The children there are all taught to be po-
lite, rich and poor; when they meet any one
they lift their hats and bow. They have good
schools and the people are very sociable and
polite, and their mode of acting in the dining
hall would be very hard for a stranger to fol-
low and practice, it is very particular and
formal, at the same time it is a very lively and
sociable one.
	We had a pleasant trip over the canal road
between Stockholm and Goteborg, and then
over the North Sea in a steamer in company
with many intelligent Swedes, and arrived in
Liverpool on a Sunday morning and attended
church there and heard the sectarian priests
talking to the congregation about worshipping
a God without body, parts or passions, and
that same God without a body was able to
stretch out His almighty arm to help any in
need of help. In the afternoon we started for
London and arrived rather late in the evening
and stopped at the Temperance Hotel, opposite
the great Northern Hotel, there was a great
traffic carried on there, and the electric light
from the street was quite sufficient to light my
room; it was very beautiful, never in my life
have I seen such a sight. My husband had
friends in London that he made calls upon.
We went out to hunt up some of our relations.
We visited St. James' Park and many other
beautiful places in that great city. We went
to Pimlico and saw the large pork pie estab-
lishment owned by a cousin of my husband's,
the establishment where it is said there are
made 6,000 pounds of pies in a day, that are
sold in the pastry shops all over London. They
are called "Wathling's pork pies."
	We dined with the gentleman owner, Mr.
James Bird. He has a very fine establish-
ment; from there we went to the Clapham
Road Station to see some more of our rela-
tives, my sister and brother-in-law. He wel-
comed us with a box of delicious strawberries
in his hands; the meeting was good and the
greeting was loving. Such varied changes of
scenery: no tongue can tell, no pen can write
the charms of the beautiful scenery of the
British Isles. Wherever we went we were res-
pectfully received and found friends, and
whenever we had an opportunity to reason up-
on the principles of the Gospel, we did so.
Wherever we travelled we came in contact
with different nationalities, many of the lan-
guages I understood, though my husband
could only speak English, and whenever I
spoke to the people in their own language and
told them of the truth of the Gospel, it was to
their astonishment; and I am thankful to God
for the privilege I had to go back and present
myself before my friends and relatives in Swe-
den and other places, that they could see for
themselves that I had not been "food for the
fishes in the sea," as they had feared, as a
friend of mine had told the people the Luther-
an priest had said in my own neighborhood at
home. Thanks be to God that I am here again
in Utah.
	In Sweden, in the city of Falun, we visited
a large copper mine which yields some gold,
some silver, and some copper. We also visited
extensive iron mines and large foundries, where
the big hammer is preparing and moulding the
long bars of iron. My husband was very
pleased to see this kind of work, and said he
would not like to have missed it. On our way
[---] [---] we saw his [---] [---] [---] [---] [---] [---]

[Column 3]
There we saw all specimens of iron work, from
the smallest article to the largest manufactured
from iron. Wood work, glass work, copper
and china, all made in the vicinity of that
place. All kinds of horses, cattle and ani-
mals, etc.
	Gafle is a fine city, rebuilt; some of the
streets are as wide as here in Salt Lake. In
the evening of that day we left there and
went on the steamer from Gafle for Stockholm,
where we were kindly received by Brother
Benson, of Logan, Utah. He was the first
Latter-day Saint we had seen after we parted
with the missionaries in England. It was in
the beginning of July. We spent a few days
in Stockholm, in that grand old romantic city;
visited the beautiful scenery, hills and dales,
small steamers in water and little ones to cross
over to them, as well as large ships and little
sail boats, it all helps to make it lively and in-
teresting; and we visited on of the grandest
stores, where almost everything can be pur-
chased in jewelry, etc., rooms foreach varie-
ty; and we saw some English people buying or-
naments; it is a Jewish store, kept by Joseph
Lija. I must not leave out the Saints. We
stayed there over Sunday and had a very good
congregation, everything so clean and inviting
about the meeting house, and a very good spir-
it prevailed in the meeting. My husband was
called upon to speak and I interpreted for him;
again on Monday there was a meeting, and I
can truly say I enjoyed myself very much a-
mong the saints there, they are a true and
warm-hearted people; I say, God bless them.
	On the Fourth of July we left Stockholm
and started on the steamer for Gateborg. We
stayed there two days and three nights and
then left for England, sailing for Hull, in
company with Swedes and Finns. After
spending nearly two months in London we
left for America the first of September, 1882,
in company with the saints and some of the
returning missionaries, on the S. S. Wyoming.
	Our trip over the sea was not a very pleas-
ant one to me because of sea-sickness. We
were on the water going and coming quite as
muck as one month. My prayer is that God
who knows all things will bless our desires to
do good everywhere.		E. H. BIRD.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The music book prepared for the use of Sun-
day Schools contains some new pieces by home
authors and is well worth the price, 50 cts.

	"Madame Anna Bishop, the celebrated song-
stress and linguist, died of apoplexy at her
home in New York, on the 25th ult."

	"Recitations and Dialogues," is the title of
another little work which contains suitable
pieces for speaking in children's entertainments
etc., and helps to make a pleasing variety for
the exercises of the little people. Price, 25
cts.
	Mrs. Miriam G. Chase, President of the Re-
lief Society of the First Ward in this city, has
gone to the State of Vermont to visit rela-
tives there, and gather up genealogy.

	The Juvenile Instructor Office has lately
published several valuable works. "Orson
Pratt's Works," a book of 314 pages, is a very
useful one, containing authoritative testimony
presented by the late esteemed Apostle Orson
Pratt, whose writings have ever been full of
intelligence and light. Price, 75 cts.

	"Of the 26 women graduates from the Wo-
men's Medical College in Philadelphia, recent-
ly, Miss Emma Atkin one of our Utah born
girls, stood second on the list. She is a very
bright, attractive young lady, and will no
doubt become successful in her profession.


172	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	APRIL 15, 1884


[Column 1]
DESULTORY THOUGHTS.

	The General Conference just passed was na
eventful one to this people. One never to be
forgotten. The crowds of worshippers who as-
sembled day after day in the large Tabernacle
in this city to hear the words of inspiration that
seemed to flow on and on like a river from the
lips of the servants of God, were indeed a sight
to gaze upon. When the immense building was
filled, the yards were crowded with those who
failed to obtain a seat in time. There is not
room for all the saints inside the Tabernacle,
even, those who come together for the Confer-
ences.
	There was an excellent spirit among the peo-
ple, a spirit of humility and obedience, which
the Scripture says is better than sacrifice; and
yet the L. D. S have and do make sacrifices,
and the Lord has has said He will have a people
who have made a covenant by sacrifice. Surely
the covenant of celestial marriage, that the
saints practice, is a covenant by sacrifice—for
one must lay aside all pride and ambition of the
world when they take up this cross. They must
bear persecution, slander and misrepresentation,
must be everywhere evil spoken of. This is the
consequence of serving God and walking in the
light.
	Are the women of this Church slandered?
Grossly. Ladies come here and make a business
of misrepresenting "Mormon" women. Does
it hurt those pure-minded, large-hearted wom-
en? Not so much as it hurts those who are con-
stantly hunting after evil.
	The Savior Himself, whom we hold up as a
divine example, was slandered, persecuted and
at last crucified. These ladies may wound most
acutely the sensitive soul, but they have not the
power to hinder the influence of the Holy Spir-
it which is the comforter and the support to
these women who have laid their all upon the
altar of their faith, determined that come life
or come death, they will be found on the Lord's
side, enduring all things for principle's sake that
they may attain to eternal life in the celestial
kingdom of God.
	Therefore, let the world say what they may,
let the wicked pursue unrighteousness and those
who love and make a lie continue if they choose
to do evil; but the women of the Latter-day
Saints who live according to the command-
ments of God, have a higher and nobler purpose
in view. Their lives are so busy, they have
scarcely time to think of these slanderers or to
contradict their vile assertions. And indeed is it
worth the while, unless for the sake of those
honest souls who may be deceived by such mis-
representations. Truth is eternal and will stand
all the vile aspersions cast upon it, and those
abide in the new and everlasting covenant who

[Column 2]
revealed to this generation through Joseph
Smith, the Prophet of the living God, will even-
tually triumph over all their opposers.
	Mormon women have nothing to fear. What
is the praise of the world? Only a bubble, that
passes away and is seen no more. There is
something in the Gospel which so far surpasses
all the world can give, that trials and persecu-
tions and even actual suffering and privations
can be endured with patience and heroism when
one has the peace in their hearts, that the world
can neither give nor take away—the peace that
passeth understanding. This in part explains
why the women of the Latter-day Saints can
afford to let those who circulate malicious lies
and cruel slanders to injure them, to destroy
their good name and to blacken their character
before the world, alone; their own consciences
will be sufficient when they are made to realize
what they have done. As for the Mormon wo-
men, they know in whom they trust and are
not afraid and they have that tenderness in
their hearts towards those who do not know
the truth, that they make great sacrifices that
the Gospel may be preached to them; this is
why the young and inexperienced wife will part
with her husband to go upon a mission, the
daughter with a loving father—there is no
bound to the sacrifices made by Mormon wom-
en that the Gospel may be preached in all the
world. They are not themselves called to go
to the nations of the earth, but while husbands,
fathers and brothers proclaim the Gospel abroad
they perform the duties of home, and they have
no time to go seeking after the faults of their
Gentile acquaintances; and they would scorn to
question their servants to ascertain if the hus-
band and wife lived happily together.
	Home is a sacred place, and those who seek
to destroy the homes of the saints, and to cruel-
ly separate families will have to meet the pun-
ishment which our Father in heaven hath de-
creed, even such measure as ye mete shall be
measured to you again, pressed down and run-
ning over.


A HAPPY AFFAIR.

	By invitation of Mrs. Angeline Mc. Allister, a
few of the friends of President Mc.Allister and
his family met at the old homestead in the
Eighth Ward in this City, on Wednesday, April
2nd, the occasion being a happy one for Sister
Angeline, who has bought back the home,
which had for some time past been in the hands
of others. It was something of a reunion, a very
pleasant affair. There were present, the Bishop
of the ward and members of his family, also
Gen. Wells, H. Dinwoodey, I Brockbank, J.
Needham, and James G. Bleak, of St. George,
and several others, and a number of ladies.
	A bounteous repast had been prepared by Sis-
ter Angeline, which the guests thoroughly en-
joyed. and the delightful music, vocal and in-
strumental, rendered by President Mc.Allister
and his children was a most enjoyable feature
of the evening.


STEPHENS' CONCERT,

	Again we were delighted last evening by the
exhibition of home talent rendered to us in the
concert of Brother Evan Stephens: the singing of
the children and the faultless time they ob-
served were marvelous in such juvenile ama-
teurs, they did immense credit to their earnest
and indefatigable teacher, Brother Evan Steph-
ens; all did well, and all was good. Our sweet,
modest, earnest women, with their pure, clear
voices, must atrike chords in every heart and
brain, and make us proud to feel we are associa-


ted with them, for they have a language with-
out sound, aside from their vocal minstreley;
that tells of honor, of purity, and an earnest
love and appreciation of the beautiful. I heard
a gentleman, a stranger, who sat near me speak
repeatedly in praise of the performance—he said
he had heard all the fine operas in London, Par-
is and St. Petersburg, but there were one or two
pieces he had never heard performed better. He
especially alluded to the chorus, "Hail us ye
free," German," as his favorite: he was evidently
a man of immense knowledge in many things,
and a connoisseur in music; he rapturously ap-
plauded, and spoke in high praise of the war-
blers.
	Of course we were all charmed with Patti,
her manner won hearts as rapidly as her mag-
nificent voice, so innocent, winsome and guile-
less—but our loved ones at home called back
our wandering thoughts last night and our hearts
heard a whisper that re-echoed through its in-
most recesses, Our own! Our own! Our little
Prima is worthy of all commendation, for
though entirely self supporting, she is ever a
lady in mind and manner; and though at times
petted and applauded she still retains the sweet
simplicity of her character, with a quiet dignity
all her own; have we not a right to be proud of
our sweet songstreses of Zion, which delighted
last night all who heard them. It has some
times been suggested that her voice should re-
ceive higher cultivation and of course all would
assent to that if it could be acquired without
sacrificing too much for it. We love her as she
is. It is a delicate and sometimes a dangerous
point to attain eminence and retain equilibrium.
We should scarcely dare to expect this from the
young and inexperienced.
	Such entertainments as last night are most
edifying and satisfactory, and must be especi-
ally so to the parents of the children who ac-
quitted themselves so well. The manners and
the order preserved by them is worthy of all
praise; to such entertainments all hearts must
exclaim, Encore! Encore!
					HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, April 8th, 1884.


TO THE RELIEF SOCIETIES OF THE
SWISS AND GERMAN MISSION.

AS PUBLISHED IN THE GERMAN STERN.

	Considering the vast distance between the
women of this land and their sisters in Zion, and
therefore the [-]mited means afforded of knowing
much concerning the Relief Societies of the
Latter-day Saint women, I have thought per-
haps it might please my sisters of this mission
who are engaged in this praiseworthy move-
ment to read a brief description of the work
performed by these societies and have also hoped
that thereby they might obtain a few instruc-
tive hints and beneficial suggestions.
	Women's share in the work of building up the
Kingdom of God has ever shown itself in a
marked manner, to much so that in the earliest
days of the church the Prophet Joseph deemed
it necessary to organize the women of Zion into
societies, for by thus working in union greater
good could be accomplished by them, while
they would also be better able to fulfil the duties
required of them.
	The first society was organized in Nauvoo on
the 17 h of March, 1842, and the Prophet's wife,
Emma, was made president. This society be-
gan its labors under the immediate instruction
and watch-care of the Prophet Joseph, and the
members wers blessed and set apart by him for
their missionary work. Great was their zeal,
and many are those, who to-day praise and love
them for the kind assistance, spiritual and tem-


[Column 1]
poral, and the motherly aid received at the
hands of these sweet women. The principal
work of the women in those days was to minis-
ter in the temples of Kirtland and Nauvoo, and
to watch with and comfort the sick and sorrow-
ing. Their hearts were in their labors and they
worked cheerfully and happily for the good of
all, carrying sunshine and gladness with them
wherever they went, whether in the happy
throng, in the sick chamber, or beside the sor-
rowing heart. Of those who were in the first
organization but few remain. Among those
still spared to na are our much esteemed sisters,
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young and Sarah
M. Kimball, who still labor most diligently in
the interests of the societies.
	While writing of the first organization men-
tion is due Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who
two years ago was laid in the grave. She had
been a most diligent worker in the society, and
was so dearly loved for the motherly kindness
she had shown, and solacing words she had ut-
tered, that they named her Mother Whitney,
the Comforter. Her voice was so sweet and
soft, and in the temples she sang so beautifully,
that she was called "The sweet sonstress of Zi-
on." A halo of light ever seemed to hover near
her, and she reminded one more of othe angels of
[-]eaven than of any earthly being. In the tem-
ple she was blessed with the gift of ton gues,
and sang in a language said by the Prophet
Joseph to be the language spoken in the Garden
of Eden. This gift she held until her last mo-
ments on earth, and never appeared so beauti-
ful and strong as when she sang for her loved
friends in this heavenly, unknown tongues. For
some time after the migration to Utah the socie-
ty was in an unsettled state, some of the sisters
having remained in the east, others having died
while on the long, tedious journey across the
scorching desert, and those who had gathered to
Zion being scattered in different localities, be-
sides each had her own home to make and so
much to do, that though the sisters ever helped
each other, no work was done by an organized
society. However, when the people became
more prosperous and settled in their circum-
stances, President Brigham Young felt the ne-
cessity of again organizing the Relief Societies,
and called Sister Eliza R. Snow to preside over
all the organizations of women of the Church.
To her he gave instructions concerning the or-
ganization and method of working; and thus be-
gan the great system which to-day is so perfect
and praise worthy.
	Sister Eliza has always been closely identified
with all the workings of the women of Zion,
and has ever shown an untiring zeal in the in-
terests of her sex. Possessed of a strong char-
acter, great executive ability and a highly spir-
itual nature, she seems to have been born for
this position and admirably fulfilled as to call forth
the esteem and respect of every one; and now,
though the eightieth anniversary of her birth is
past, she still labors diligently and untiringly in
in her position. When she first received the
mission of the re-organization she and her co-la-
borers visited all the wards in Salt Lake City,
then the different settlements of Utah, where,
under the auspices of the several Bishops, socie-
ties were organized. Then meetings of these
societies were called, and under the auspices of
the presidents of stakes, stake organizations
were formed by the appointing of a president,
counselors and secretary to see to the welfare of
the ward societies of the several stakes. At
nearly all of the organizations Sister Eliza was
present, sometimes having travelled hundreds
of miles over a rough country for the express
purpose, and she always gave much valuable
instruction, explaining the necessity of the so-

[Column 2]
cieties and the methods to be used in conduct-
ing them as she had been advised and counselled
to do by President Young. The societies have
so rapidly grown and increased in numbers that
now there are few places in the world where a
sufficient number of the saints live, without one
of them. Everywhere they are found working
quietly and diligently spreading good in every
direction and causing their influence to be felt a-
mong the people.
	The duties of the societies have increased even
as the societies themselves have, and to-day
their work is boundless. The great assistance
they render is marvelous, and the good they do
far surpasses the expectations of the most san-
guine. It can scarcely be told, it over-reaches
all calculations. Sustained and upheld by the
thought that they were travelling in the path
of duty, the women of Utah have toiled on,
triumphing over all opposition and discourage-
ment, each day spreading their influences abroad
and holding out a helping hand to others. With
their faith and goodness their power and
strength have increased, till now, endowed with
the priceless graces, Faith, Hope and Charity,
they have attained a height of excellence, and
stand before the world a band of noble, fearless
woman.
	One glimpse of these societies and their work-
ings ought to cause the world to abandon forev-
er the idea that the women of Utah are down-
trodden and degraded, for where else in the
whole wide world can one find such a commu-
nity of working, benevolent women? From the
first they have nourished a feeling that all
their work should be labors of love, and with
this spirit and the systematic plans which they
possess one can easily imagine what great good
they can accomplish. The teachers of the so-
cieties make regular visits to all the people in
the wards, collecting the bounty bestowed by
the rich and well-to-do, and ascertaining the
circumstances and wants of the poor, bestowing
relief and good counsel as they go from place to
place. Every two weeks meetings are held to
hear the teachers' reports and attend to all busi-
ness connected therewith, also to enjoy the
sweet pleasure of conversing upon the princi-
ples of the Gospel and teaching and instructing
each other. At these times they are often so
blessed with the Spirit of the Lord that they
sing and speak in tongues and have the inter-
pretation of the same. This gift also helps to
render firmer their testimony, for they here see
a fulfillment of the prophecies. Once a month
sewing meetings are held, and for some few
hours the sisters ply the needle more industri-
ously, making up various kind of articles that
have been contributed for the benefit of the
poor. Many hundreds of dollars' worth of nee-
dlework has either been donated to the needy,
or disposed of and the means thus obtained used
for some charitable purpose. In this way the
sisters have been able to aid in the building of
temples and other public buildings, and often
assist a departing missionary; and still through
their economy and industry have kept a little
store on hand for a rainy day. They make it a
duty to watch with the sick and render every
attention possible to any who are afflicted a-
mong them. These love-laboring women are
always found in the houses of mourning, using
their best efforts towards comforting the sorrow-
ing and preparing the departed one for the
grave. Most all the burial clothes [--]d among
the saints are made at the sisters' meetings.
Temple clothes are also made by the Relief So-
ciety women, and kept for the use of the peo-
ple.
	At first the societies met at the house of some
member, but they increased so rapidly in num-
bers, and their store of goods also increasing, it

[Column 3]
was thought best for them to meet in the sever-
al ward meeting houses; but even then the sis-
ters had not the room for storing their goods,
and with their quiet industry and never failing
zeal they worked for the building of houses of
their own; and now many of the societies either
have a house to themselves or a room in the
ward building, built and furnished out of their
own means. Some of them also keep a store,
and the profits therefrom are placed in the
treasury of the society. Many of them have
built granaries; for unto the societies has been
given the mission of storing grain against a day
of famine, which President Young and others
have prophesied would come upon the earth;
and he himself called upon the sisters to organ-
ize this benevolent enterprise. A committee,
with Emmelne B. Wells as president, to su-
prerintend the saving and storing of grain was
appointed in November, 1876.
	So anxious had the societies become to learn
of each others movements, and so necessary was
it thought for the world to know more of the
Latter-day Saint women that a publication
called THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT was establish-
ed in Salt Lake City, in June, 1872, and a young
lady, Miss Lula Greene, selected to edit and con-
duct the same. This paper was started by sub-
scriptions and donations from the different so-
cieties and is published for the express purpose
of representing the work of the women of Zion.
The EXPONENT has for the last seven years been
edited by Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, the former
editor having withdrawn.
	The enterprise of publishing a woman's paper
has been most successful in every respect, but
not only are the societies represented there, but
through its columns the women of Utah glori-
ously defend their rights and speak for them-
selves in answer to the many false reports that
are made of them. It has also been the means
of encouraging literary talent among the wom-
en; and many who are now beautiful and ac-
complished writers received their first encour-
agement through the EXPONENT.
	Another praise worthy movement among the
women of Utah has been their great interest
and work in sericulture. They have labored in-
dustriously in this and have had considerable
success. through the industry is still in its infan-
cy.
	The most energetic worker in this has been
Sister Zina D. H. Young, who herself took
charge of a large mulberry orchard and the man-
agement of a cocoonery for sometime. The in-
dustry is now well established. One factory has
been built and is in working order, and some
very fine specimens of Utah silk have been pro-
duced. This has been a rather difficult under-
taking, for not only had all the machinery to be
imported, but competent weavers could not be
found in Utah, and it became necessary to emi-
grate some who understood the industry before
manufacturing could be done.
	Still another most creditable movement made
by the societies has been the assisting and en-
couraging young ladies in the study of medicine.
Many of the settlements are situated in isolated
places and medical attendance in the case of ac-
cident or sudden sickness had hitherto been im-
possible. Besides, a large majority of the phys-
icians among our people were not members of
the church, and it has ever been thought best
to encourage by our patronage our own people.
When the question of sending our young sisters
away to study medicine first arose, Sister Ro-
mania B. Pratt eagerly desired to number her-
self among the pioneer woman doctors of Utah,
and accordingly she went east, entered a medi-
cal college in Phi[-]a[-]elphia, where she studied
most assiduously, and quickly made herself pro-
ficient in the chosen science. After graduating
she returned to Utah and not only began to


practice her profession, but took classes of young 
women sent from the different settlements to
receive instruction in medicine and surgery,
most particularly in obstetrics. Many others
have followed Mrs. Pratt's example and are
now promising practitioners among the people.
Most of there have received assi tance from the
Relief Societies, and many young women under
Mrs. Pratt's tuition are enabled to prosecute
their studies through the aid they receive from 
them. These classes prepare themselves for the
higher branches of the academies, and thus with
this previous teaching are not compelled to stay
away from home so long. Since this first move-
ment rapid progress has been made by the
young women in this direction, and Utah to-day
has several lady physicians of marked ability,
besides many who have taken only the course
in obstetrics from Mrs. Pratt, and then after an
examination before the leading physicians of the
city returned to their several homes to minister
in their calling.
	As the different ladies graduated and began
practice among the people they saw more and
more the necessity of a hospital. This subject
was first agitated by Dr. Pratt short'y after her
return from the east, but not until 1882 did the
sisters feel able for so great an undertaking.
Recognizing, however, that it was need and
would become a great benefit to the people, the
societies consented to sustain it by monthly do-
nations, and many of the members of the sev-
eral societies became members of the Hospital
Association. Accordingly the institution was
established without captial, depending almost
entirely upon the diffferent societies for its supr
port. This has been quite an undertaking to
the Relief Societies and has made a heavy tax
upon their little treasuries, but as in all their
other efforts they have labored most faithfully
and willingly and now have great cause to feel
rewarded for their pains--for the Deseret Hos-
pital is in a prosperous and promising condition.
	Whole volumes could be written of the work
of the women of Zion, and then not the half be
told; but I will not presume to tell more, my
object being merely to relate something con-
cerning the organization and the principal work
accomplished by the Relief Society in its
branches and departments. There are numer-
ous works I have not mentioned at all, among
them the organization of Young Ladies' Societ-
ties and the Primaries; the beginning of the or-
ganization among the Indian women and the
travels of the leading ladies from one end of the
territory to another, and even to other lands for
the purpose of organizing and encouraging the
different societies, but my time will not allow
me to narrate so much. I hope you may be al-
lowed to gather to Zion and not only learn of
these things, but also assist in the great work
of the Mormon women. It has give me the
greatest pleasure to meet with the sisters of this
land, and has espeically delighted me to see you
organized into Relief Societies, for I am sure
you will derive much benefit from these organi-
zations.
	May you ever feel blessed and prospered in
your labors, and notwithstanding the adverse-
circumstances and persecution you have to con-
tend with, still stand firm and faithful in the
cause of truth, is the earnest desire of your sis-
ter in the Gospel. 			ANNIE W. CANNON.
	Pest Gasse 36, Bern, March 12, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 178


174	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

[---] GRAHAM CO., ARIZONA.

	This ladies of the Relief Societies of the St.
Joseph Stake held their Quarterly Conferences

[Column 2]
at Pima, Friday, Feb. 29th, 1884, President
Willmirth East presiding. After the usual
opening exercises the minutes of the previous
conference were read and accepted; also stake
and ward reports. The presidents of the vari-
ous branch societies gave verbal reports of
their respective wards, showing them to be in
a lively and prosperous condition; all desirous
of performing their part in assisting to build
up the Church of Christ here upon the earth.
	President East and Counselor Mary Ransom,
also President Christopher Layton and Patri-
arch Philemon Merrill, of the St. Joseph
stake, addressed the congregation. The sub-
jects treated upon were The Word of Wisdom,
home industry and the training of the youth
of Israel. President Layton said he felt
pleased with the proceedings of the conference;
asked the Lord to bless and prosper us in our
labors.
	Conference adjourned for three months, to
meet at St. David. Closing hymn, "The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning." Bene-
diction by Bro. Mc. Rae.
					LUCINDA GUSTAFSON.

KOOSHAREM.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that perhaps yourself, along with
some of the readers of the EXPONENT, would
like to hear from this out-of-the-way place, I
will try to let you know a little about what we
are doing.
	The young ladies of this place held their
fourth annual meeting Feb. 12th, 1884, and
although it was a very cold day the meeting
wae very well attended. After the different
exercises from the Association, and some very
suitable remarks from our Bishop, J. H.
Wright, the officers were all unanimously sus-
tained, which is the fifth year, with very little
exception, that they have labored together, and
I find that those who have been on hand in
the discharge of their duties have made a
marked improvement, and I hope that all who
are engaged in the Association will realize the
great field of labor there is before them.
	The Relief Society in this place is also in a
very good condition, and our worthy President,
Sister Margaret Anderson, is doing all she can
to instruct us in her motherly way.
	The society made a surprise party for all
those who had arrived at the age of sixty years.
We all met at the school house on the 19th
of Feb., at eleven a.m., and partook of the
rich things of this world, and after dinner was
over the afternoon was partly spent in speeches,
songs, dialogues, and a piece of poetry compos-
ed for the occasion. There was a great deal of
Scandinavian language used on occount of a
great many of the old folks being Scandina-
vians. It was to all a very enjoyable time,
owing a great deal to the management of the
committee. The President took an active part
in the whole proceedings. The choir assisted
in making it interestieg.
	Our Sunday School and Primary Associa-
tion are in a good condition, owing a great
deal to the faithful leaders of these institutions.
On the 7th of March our Sunday School held
an exhibition for the benefit of the Sunday
School, which, according to the material we
have to work with here in the frontiers, came
off well.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT, I remain,
			Your sister in the Gospel,
									U. C.

BEAR LAKE.

	Synopsis of the minutes of the 11th Semi-
Annual Conference of the Bear Lake Stake
held in Paris, Feb. 23rd and 24th, 1884, Sat-
urday, 10 a.m. Meeting called to order by
Prest. [-]. [-]. Lindsay, Singing, Prayer by

[Column 3]
Prest. Wm. Budge. Singing. Minutes read
and accepted.
	Prest. Lindsay was pleased to meet with the
sisters in the capacity of a Relief Society Con-
ference, although there were but few in num-
ber in consequence of the late stormy weather
and depth of snow. She did not doubt that
the Lord would bless us, as He says, "If a few
are met together in His name there He will be
also.',
	The Relief Societies were then represented
as follows:
	Paris 1st Ward—Prest. M. Innes; Paris 2nd
Ward—Prest. M. A. Shepherd; Ovid Ward—
Prest- M. Carleson; Liberty Ward—Prest M.
Morgan; Bennington Ward—Prest M. Van
Norman; Montpelier Ward—letter, Prest.
Hogensen being sick; Cottonwood Ward—
Prest. M. Dalrymple; Bloomington Ward—
Prest. S. Greenhalgh; St. Charles—Prest. L.
M. Rich; Georgetown, Soda Springs, Fish Ha-
ven, Garden City, Meadowville, Laketown,
Randolph, Woodruff and Saleratus Creek, not
reported.
	Prest. Lindsay stated that she had received
a letter from Meadowville stating that they
were not in working order. The settlement
was quite small and thought it was difficult to
carry on an Association there.
	Prest. N. M. Pugmire stated that the Young
Ladies would hold their Conference in the
afternoon at 2 p.m. Conference adjourned un-
til 10 a.m. next day. Singing. Dismissed by
Bp. Dalrymple.

	Sunday 10 a.m. Singing. Prayer. by
Prest. James H. Hart. Singing. The statisti-
cal and financial report was then read by the
Secretary.
	Prest. Lindsay had felt greatly blessed and
encouraged in traveling around visiting the
people. Alluded to the work of the Temple
and stated that all the money that had been
sent in for medical purposes without any pres-
ent prospect of using it for the purpose design-
ed, could be turned over to the Temple fund,
and wished the Presidents to send in all the
Temple donations they have now on hand, as
we wish to close up our Temple accounts. We
must have more medical aid as soon as we can
find sisters adapted to that study, and who are
prepared to go to the city for that purpose, and
it would be well to bear this in mind. Spoke
at some length upon storing grain and advised
the sisters to continue in the good work. Gave
many instructions to the presidents about the
way in which to transact the business of the
Associations, and the way in which to receive
members. It is not those who are best educa-
ted and can speak most of the things of God,
it is those who are pure in heart. Education
is a great help, but we must be humble and
prayerful to fulfill the offices we are appointed
to. Prest. Rich once said, "Sister Lindsay, if
I should place all the offices I could upon you,
unless you magnified them they would do you
more harm than good." This is saying a good
deal in a few words. Felt to ask the blessing
of God upon all the people.
	Counselor E. Collings felt to acknowledge
the hand of God in permitting her to attend
this meeting. We are here to do the will of
our Heavenly Father, not our own will, and
it seems that I have been spared a little longer
and I desire to spend the rest of my days in
this work.
	Prest. N. M. Pugmire stated that it was very
unexpectedly to her to be called upon this
morning, but hoped that she would always
be found ready and willing to do what was re-
quired of her. Was always glad to receive in-
structions from the elderly sisters who have
toiled hard to the very last. Felt to love them
and look to them with reverence. We have
[---] things in our [---] is [---]


and I think we will have a greater reward if
we fight the battle faithfully.
	Counselor A. M. Rich said she had been ac-
quainted with President Lindsay for a number
of years, was her Secretary once, and knew her
to be a zealous woman and that she rejoiced in
the Gospel and in all the privileges she enjoyed
in common with her sisters to do good. Let
us be honest, kind and true to each other, and
sustain the Priesthood of God in our midst, as
it is right, and also because it is through them
that we receive the administration and blessing
of the Gospel.
	Sister L. M. Hart felt to bear her testomony
to this work, and was glad of the privilege of
taking part in promoting it, and wished to en-
dure faithful to the end. She often wondered
whether she would be able to continue as faith-
ful as those of her sisters who had spoken. We
should try to be charitable and speak well of
each other and not say anything that will cause
bad feelings.
	Prest. Budge stated that he had been re-
quested to say a few words to the sisters by Sis-
ter Lindsay, and felt to respond to the call
cheerfully. Felt that the time was very short
for the sisters as the Young Ladies and Prim-
ary were all represented in the two days. We
are indebted to them for their co-operation in
this Stake of Zion. They have labored faith-
fully in instructing the people and the results
there from are very apparent. Preferred to
hear the sisters speak as their words were both
encouraging and instructive, indeed the only
thing to be regretted was their being too brief
generally.
	Prest. Hart felt to respond to the call from
Sister Lindsay with great pleasure. Realized
with Prest. Budge the importance of these or-
ganizations, and looked forward to the future
with satisfaction. We must be strong in the
Lord. We have had many good instructions
from the sisters and Prest. Budge, and we
should treasure them up in our minds. The
Lord has blessed us with the blessings of earth
and the blessings of heaven. It is necessary
that we become more perfect, that we may be
qualified to dwell with the holy ones. Our re-
ligion has taught us that we are not the grovel-
ing things of this earth, but we are really sons
and daughters of God who reigns over all men;
over all the worlds that are created. It is
clearly laid down in the law that Jesus shall
reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords.
What a great work is devolving upon the Lat-
ter-day Saints. Were the deeds of the faith
of our sons and daughters recorded they would
supercede anything that has ever been read.
Admired the zeal, courage, faith, energy and
self-sacrificing spirit of the sisters. Desired
that the blessing of God would rest upon the
sisters and that success would continue to at-
tend their labors.
	Prest. Osmond expected that what he should
say would be more as a testimony to the work,
than to add to what had been said. There was
quite a distinction among the sisters as there is
among the brethren in taking an active part
in the work. Was struck with the remark of
Sister Pugmire in which she hoped that the
young ladies that she represented would prove
as faithful as those who had addressed them. I
have thought of them, when they would stand
by the brethren in the day of trial, and in faith
fill their part nobly and bring their children
up in the fear of God, when they may be de-
prived of the counsels of their fathers. Our
object, desires and aims are the same and we
are looking forward for the same blessings.
	Conference was then adjourned until the
second Saturday and Sunday in July, and an
intimation given that a two days meeting
would be held at Montpelier one week from
yesterday and to-day.
	Singing. Benediction by Prest. Wm Budge,


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 175


SANPETE PRIMARY ASSOCIATION.

DEAR EDITOR:
	On Dec. 6th, last, I commenced our second
annual visit to the Primaries of this, the San-
pete Stake, accompanied by Counselor Car-
oline Swalberg, and joined later by Counselors
Lucy Bergland and Marian Tennant.
	When we left Ephraim, we were speeded on
our way by the blessing and good wishes of
President Canute Peterson.
	With the three Associations lately organized,
i. e., Stirling, Gunnison Field and Dover, there
are now 19 Primary Associations in this Stake,
numbering 1,962 members. We found them,
with two exceptions, in a very healthy and pro-
gressive condition. There have been 16 Prim-
ary Fairs during the last two or three years in
this stake. We have had the pleasure of be-
ing present at four of them, and invited to
many which we have been unable to attend.
When we saw what these young and small Lat-
ter-day Saints could do in home industries, it
made us think, what could not we older ones
do if we exercised as much perseverance in
proportion to our strength and knowledge as
these little children do. When the day comes
that Babylon falls, and we are thrown upon
our own resources, then, if not before, will we
likely see the good of these Fairs, that are now
almost left for the little ones to monopolize.
The Primaries are taught to pay tithing, which
some of them are already practicing. I regret
that I am not posted as to how much the Prim-
aries of this stake have donated to the Manti
Temple, but it is considerable. They have also
gleaned and stored about 100 bushels of wheat.
So much for temporalities.
	As the children are taught and advance in
the knowledge of God and the plan of salva-
tion, we find them more inclined for pursuits of
a refining nature; and it fills our hearts with
gratitude to the kind Dispenser, to see the rare
spiritual gifts, which He has bestowed upon
the children of the Latter-day Saints in such
rich measure.
	Since Sister E. R. S. Smith's Primary books
have been in use the children's selections have
improved, till they are all that could be wished
for, while prior to that time, if not guarded a-
gainst, the selection of songs, recitations, etc.,
were not always as appropriate as they might
be, and the Primaries are very thankful to
Sister Eliza for her loving labors for them.
	We find some Primary Presidents who will
not allow any exercise in a meeting, and least
of all prayers, to go on until all the children
are attentive; they wait until order reigns, and
such meetings are orderly indeed; but orderly,
quiet, well disciplined Primaries are the pre-
vailing rule.
	Sister Helen Armstrong, Stake President of
Y. L. M. I. A., has established a rule within
her jurisdiction. which we have mutually con-
cluded upon, that the girls who apply for mem-
bership in the Y. L. M. I. A. must be thirteen
years of age, and although visitors are always
welcomed, must bring a recommend from the
President of the Primary. We are in hopes
that the Stake President of	*	*	will
favor us with a like rule. This, we have no
doubt, will meet with President Peterson's ap-
probation.
	We feel encouraged in the cause of Primary
Associations, and trust the interest for and in
behalf of the precious, tender plants, intrusted
to our care, may never waver, but that we may
give them the benefit of our experience, point-
ing out to them, by the help of the Lord, at
the beginning of their life's voyage, the shoals
upon which the wayward must stand, and guid-
ing them with tenderest love and care in the
way that leads them to God.
						HELENA MADSEN.


A WORD FROM MILL CREEK.

	February 25th a number of the sisters of
the Relief Society of Mill Creek met at the
residence of Sister Araminta North, it being
her 65th natal day. There were also a num-
ber of the brethren present. Almost the en-
tire company were there at the appointed hour,
which made it quite surprising to her, not hav-
ing the slightest idea of the proceedings. A
beautiful arm chair was presented to her by
the sisters and the following lines were com-
posed and read by one of the sisters: "We, the
sisters of the Relief Society of Mill Creek
ward, have come together with your family to
give you a surprise on your 65th birthday, ap-
preciating your labor and care as our treasur-
er, we present to you this chair as a small tok-
en of respect, and hope that you may live
many years to enjoy it.
	It is with great pleasure that we have met
here this afternoon to congratulate you on this
occasion; and when we reflect back we realize
that you have spent over forty years in this
Church, during which time, together with your
husband and family, you have shared with the
saints in much joy and persecution, left your
home, friends and relatives that were near and
dear to you, but by so doing you have not lost
all; you have here in this land many friends, a
comfortable and happy home, surrounded by
your children and numerous grandchildren;
you have been a member of the Relief Socie-
ty of the Mill Creek Ward ever since its first
organization, and have also been the treasurer
for over seven years. Always willing to help
and cherish the sick and needy, you have our
best wishes in the future. May you yet spend
many happy days and do all the good your
heart desires, be a comfort to your husband and
children, also the grandchildren that are always
ready to greet you on all occasions; also still
continue to aid us as a band of sisters in this
glorions work in which we all are engaged.
May health, peace and prosperity attend you
the remainder of your days, is the earnest de-
sire of your sisters of the Relief Society of this
ward."
	Acting Bishop A. Hill and counselor W.
Lemmon made some excellent remarks, also
Bros. John Morgan, H. Bowden and Levi
North spoke a short time. Sister Araminta
North returned her thanks to the sisters for
the handsome present and their good will to-
wards her.
	A bounteous supper was partaken of, which
added much to the comfort and pleasure of the
party. A good spirit prevailed and all enjoyed
themselves first rate.
	In conclusion, it was a day long to be re-
membered by all present.		A. J. N.


A higher, grander, nobler womanhood means
the regeneration of the race. So I thank
God for every wave of uplifting that takes
women to higher levels. And I am especially
thankful for the crusade which has forced wo-
men into the front rank of the temperance con-
flict.—Mary A. Livermore.


OBSEQUIES.

	The funeral services over the remains of Sister Mar-
garet Gardener, who departed this life on the morning
of March 20th, 1884, was held in the West Jordan Ward
House, on the 22nd inst, Counselor James Turner pres-
iding.
	Present on the stand, Prest. A. M. Cannon and Coun-
selor Joseph E. Taylor, of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, Bish-
ops I. M. Stewart of Draperville, and Samuel Bennion of
Taylorsville Wards; also Bishop Gardener's Counselors,
Ward Teachers, quorum officers and others.
	The large assembly was called to order promptly at
nine o'clock. The choir sang, "Sister thou wast mild
and lovely." Opening prayer was offered by Bro. James


Glover. The choir sang the hymn, "The Resurrection
Day." After which Prest. Joseph E. Taylor delivered
an elaborate funeral discourse, beautifully dilating upon
the spirit world and the resurrection; also extoling the
virtues of the deceased.
	Prest. A. M. Cannon followed with excellent remarks:
speaking in the highest terms of Sister Margaret, and
giving such counsel to old and young as may long be
remembered.
	The Choir sang, "Nearer my God to Thee." Benedic-
tion by Bishop I. M. Stewart.
	After all present had taken a farewell look at our be-
loved sister, her mortal remains was followed by a long
train of carriages and vehicles, filled with relatives and
friends, to Bingham Junction, U. C. R. R., and placed
on board a special car, and taken to Salt Lake City,
where a hearse and carriages were in waiting.
	After the transfer was made another long line of
carriages, well filled, followed Sister Margaret to her
last resting place in the Salt Lake Cemetry. The dedi-
catory prayer was offered by Bro. Joseph J. Williams of
West Jordan.
	Sister Margaret was the eldest daughter of Bishop
Archibald Gardener and his wife, Margaret Livington
Gardener.
	She was born Oct. 6th, 1848, and was the second white
child born in these valleys. She suffered with consump-
tion for a number of months, which finally caused her
death.
	Sister Margaret has been a faithful member of he
Relief Society since 1875, and was a teacher in the same
since 1880.
	She became a member of the Y. L. M. I. A. when it
was first organized, and was secretary of this organiza-
tion for over three years prior to her death, and was al-
so a faithful teacher in the Sunday School.
	She died as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.

Dearest sister, though your pathway
	Has been strewn with many thorns,
You have nobly won the victory,
	To your rest you now have gone.
								LOUISA EGBERT.


176	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Lillie May Murdock, daughter of John R. and Mary
E. Murdock, who departed this life Feb. 25th, 1884, was
born in Beaver City, Utah, July 9th, 1870.
	At a meeting of the Young Ladies’ Mutual Improve-
ment Association the following resolutions were adopt
ed:

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, By the decree of an alwise Providence, our
friend and associate, Lillie May Murdock, has been
called from our midst,
	Resolved, That in our sorrow for a faithful member,
we find consolation in the thought that it is well with
her for whom we mourn, though it is hard to part with
one before whom life was apparently all happiness.
	Resolved, That we condole with the bereaved parents,
relatives and friends, in this their great loss.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the
records of the Association, and a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
								BELLE GILLIES,
										Secretary.

	DIED, at Hyde Park, Cache Co., March 7th, 1881, Or-
son Charles, Infant son ef Samuel and Permelia Matkin,
born Sep. 19th, 1883.

Our sweet little Orson has left us
	To dwell in a holier sphere;
With all our loved ones bereft us,
Oh, rest thee, darling, there!

Thou art free from earthly trials,
	From all sorrow, pain and sin;
Thy spirit pure is dwelling now
	Where no evil can enter in.

Sweet be thy rest, thou lovely child!
	But 'tis hard indeed to part
With the little gem of our household,
	With the darling of our heart.

Then rest thou darling baby,
	While grief our hearts doth fill,
For we know that God hath called thee
	And we bow to His holy will.

'Tis true the trial was severe
	That tore him from your breast,


But do not wish him back again,
	For he has gone to rest.

Father, mother, kindred, friends,
	May miss his lovely form;
A bright future lies before us
	At the resurrection morn.

In the glorious resurrection
	The faithful will come forth;
Then sweet will be our meeting,
	And we will know his worth.

Thou dost not weep to weep alone,
	For on all the sorrow seems to fall;
It is not felt by thee alone,
	He was beloved, beloved by all.
							ROSELLA A. NELSON.

	It becomes our painful duty to record the death of
our beloved and esteemed friend, Sister Emma Maddi-
son, who departed this life March 9th, 1884, of child
birth, wife of John F. Maddison, and daughter of Wm.
and Ann D[-]ll, born in London, Dec. 25th, 1851; aged
thirty-two years, two months and twelve days. She had
five sons and one daughter, but only two survive her.
	Sister Maddison led a life worthy of imitation, she
was a devoted wife, a kind and affectionate mother, and
a friend to all. Her smiling countenance and cheerful
words immediately won the love and respect of all who
had the pleasure of enjoying her society.
	She was Second Counselor to the Prest. of the Y. L.
M. I. A., and diligently performed her duties, her kind
advice and pious instructions always seeming to sink
into the hearts of those who came under the sound of
her voice.
	She leaves a husband, two small children, and numer-
ous relatives and friends to mourn her loss. May she
rest in peace-
					PARTHENIA LOWE, President,
					ELIZA SMITH, Secretary.
	Providence, Cache Co., Utah, March 20th, 1884.


SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements;
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort tor tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
Music Book for Primary Hymn Book,		40c.	''
Poems, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,				$1.00	''
		Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIE R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
ris building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
and an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]

HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

