[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 514 | Poetry | Reverie in Meadow Grass | Peggy Tangren]
REVERIE IN MEADOW GRASS Peggy Tangren This meadow is a world within a world Of little things that crawl and creep in shade Of leaf and stone. Of wings not yet unfurled Laid camouflaged against the tall green blade. The draglines of the ant have mapped their land For keeping life, or bringing back the dead Around a lake the size of my cupped hand, And under girders strung of spider thread. Deep in this meadow grass are town and shire Built to the level of an insect's eye. Hunger is here, frustration, and desire; And over them the stems rise strong and high, Their forest, as my forest is to me, Dwarfing them as redwoods dwarf us all. What fearsome moving monster must I be— I, who am a hundred grass blades tall. Will go softly through the meadow grass Breathing a benediction as I pass. > the Home inside and out @ The Dickson family sat in a circle on their living room rug. They were gathered together for a family council to decide where they should spend their family vacation. For days Father had collected maps, pamphlets, and advertisements on summer resorts. Sally, twelve years old, had gathered information on the National Parks. Nearly every student in her class, she argued, had seen at least two National Parks. Sally was determined to see two (preferably three) famous parks this summer. Billy, age nine, had definitely decided the family should visit a Dude Ranch in the high Tetons. A cowboy's life for him, with boots, saddle, and spurs! Dotty, age four, had investigated nothing. She demanded that they stay on the West Coast and go to the beach as usual. As the children disputed each other's wishes, Father shifted his position, but said nothing. Mother listened quietly, also, considering every angle. Either she nodded her head in agreement, or shook it in doubt. However, the children had a shaky feeling from past experiences that, even though she was quiet she was biding her time. They were correct. All the while she had been listening she had hugged her old black photograph album in her arms. It was the album the children enjoyed looking at because of its amusing pictures of their Mother's childhood. The moment the debate subsided, Mother cunningly opened the album and spoke. "I think you all have perfectly wonderful ideas. Now I have a wish a most ideal spot for a two weeks' vacation. "It would take us back to the Middle West, to my girlhood home... Back to the woods where my family camped each summer beside a winding river. We could camp in tents, cook over a campfire, and put up hammocks. You children could explore the woods, fish, climb the trees, and, perhaps, build a small flatboat, or build a tree house. Father could catch up on his reading, fish, and just plain rest!" Father looked a bit dumbfounded, but said nothing. "Oh, Mother," sighed Sally, 


 'it sounds creepy. I'd die if I had to spend two weeks in those old woods. What would I do just walk around, looking at the birds, and butterflies...?" "In fact, yes. That is what I thought you could do," answered Mother. "Oh, joy," smirked Billy. "Well err ah,' muttered Dotty, not quite getting the idea. "Please," said Father, "let's just take a look at that book." They all stood around Mother as she turned the worn pages of her album to the camping pictures, snapped during her family's camping vacation. Their five heads crowded together, trying to get a better view of the snapshots. "What are those things hanging on the tree limbs there beside the tent?" Father asked, looking closely at the snapshot on the upper left. "Oh, those were my little brother Tod's clothes,' Mother chuckled, remembering. ''He fell into the river...."' She could hardly tell it for giggling... "With his clothes on. My mother had to pull him out, pull off his clothes and hang them up there on the limb to dry. He had to stay inside the tent until his clothes dried." It must have been funny, the family decided, for Mother's laugh went right on up the scale. "Didn't he have any dry clothes?" Dotty ask