(Continued from page 449) fully endless eons ago—that morning—and pulled the patchwork quilt over him.
Then she began chafing the thin, gnarled hands. Suddenly Gramp's blue eyelids fluttered open and he looked up into her troubled face. "Now, now, Judy," he said, his voice coming as if from a great distance, "don't look that-a-way. I'm all right. I'm fine."
Judith looked at him mutely, tears rolling unheeded down her cheeks. "Know what?"
Gramp resumed presently, his voice weak but his eyes bright and clear, "I think I'm goin' to get to go at last! I b'leeve they're comin' for me from "T'other side!' Now, wait!" His weak fingers restrained Judith when she would have risen. "Don't go callin' the neighbors.
They can help ye when I'm gone. Jes' stay here and wait with me till they come for me." He paused for breath, and Judith sat quietly holding his hand, his serenity and quiet happiness unconsciously affecting her own spirit. "Sam'll be here," Gramp_ whispered presently, "mebbe you won't see him, Judy, but he'll see you and the little ones. Ill tell him you been a good daughter, Judy. I'll tell him—" It was increasingly difficult for Judith to hear him and she bent closer for his feeble whisper, "I'll tell him I left ye in good hands. Young Bill' ll take care of ye, Judy. Sam'll understand. Sam!"
Judith was sure the last word was not the beginning of a never-to-be finished sentence, but a greeting instead! It was an exclamation, and Gramp's voice had strengthened and risen in an inflection of pure joy.
Judith sat on for a moment, sensing, as Gramp must often have done, the mystery and nearness of his longed for "Other Side," almost with the feeling of one who has waved farewell to a joyous traveler, rather than looked upon death.
Then she gently disengaged her hand and pulled up the sheet over the peaceful old face. She glanced at the clock which had counted out so many fateful moments of her life. Tt was exactly four o'clock—twenty-four hours since she had slipped out so quietly in the dawn. "What a day!" she murmured softly, smiling tenderly through her tears, "but what a wonderful day for Gramp!" Westward In 47 It's new and different!
Here is a delightful book that will enable you to journey along the trail with the Pioneers on their Westward trek | from Winter Quarters to the Salt Lake Valley.
Complete with pictures that provide enrichment material for aid in teaching.
Available at your stationer, book, drug. Or department store. 1.00 If not available, mail $1.00 (plus 2% sales tax in Utah) to DIXON & COMPANY 159
West 3rd South Salt Lake City, Utah Page 503 ACCOMPLISHMENT should MILLIONS ways be the result when energy is expended. Yet, like a dizzily spinning top, many businesses go 'round in the preparation The Church University welcomes of advertising and get nowhere. Young Latter-day Saints who seek high Month after month, the same thing happens again and again and nothing is est social and spiritual environment. Dollars that could be made to produce For admission to the University a new student results. The function of a printing orders must request an application blank and organization today is to help clients to return it to the Admissions Committee one plan printing that builds sales—to take month before the opening of school. Copy and dramatize it, make it so irresistibly attractive that it must naturally draw the reader's attention. The APPLICATIONS DUE SEPT. 1 waste of which we speak is often due for the Autumn Quarter to lack of understanding. Realization.. Of this has made us sales minded. Your New Students Orientation—Sept. 26 selling problem, and our experience Registration Sept. 29 and 30 puts us in a position to print your sales
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY
The Deseret Vows Press PROVO, UTAH 29
Richards Street—Salt Lake City, Utah The Sure Way to Eternal Happiness has been revealed anew from heaven. It is plainly marked out in the books of the Church, and is pleasingly amplified in fascinating story. "We are saved no faster than we gain knowledge" For ANY [,, D. S. BOOK WRITE EZRA L. MARLER L. D. S. BOOKS BY MAIL Box 267, Salt Lake City, Utah Price List Free for the Asking HIGHWAY HELPS— LigHTs
ALONG LIFE'S GREAT HIGHWAY
Contains approximately 150 short, lucid discussions of gospel topics. Price $2.00 GOLDEN NUGGETS OF THOUGHT Pocket size. 192 pages of just what the name suggests.................... Price $1.00
Page 504  THE BOOK OF THE YEAR... Brigham Young The Man of the Hour 52.00 A Perfect Centennial Gift BOOKCRAFT 1186
South Main—Salt Lake City 4, Utah > > a (a > (a t M-U-S-I-C SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY. How Beautiful Upon The Mountains— Harker:..16c.. How Lovely Are The Messengers— Mendelssohn 12¢.. Dear Land of Home—Sibelius That Thou Hadst Hearkened—...... Hear My Prayer—James 15¢ _... How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings— Liddle..... Holy Redeemer—Marchetti Se Twenty-third Psalm—Schubert 18c Lullaby and Goodnight—Brahms 10c O Saviour Of The World—Goss-Ray....,15c Open The Gates Of The Temple— Knapp. — -20¢.. Bless This House—Brahe -15e Stranger Of Galilee—Morris 15¢ Peace I Leave With You—Roberts 10c King of Glory—Parks...... = -20¢ (Postage Additional to Prices Quoted) We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines. Records and musicians' supplies. We solicit your patronage DAYNES MUSIC CO. 45-47 S. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 A Book to Delight, Inspire and Aid All Teachers of the Gospel The Master's Art is the gospel teaching _art. In this new book, Dr. Howard Dziggs brings to the gospel teacher a lifetime's experience in school and Church teaching. Clearly written, easily grasped. This book will be of great help to Relief Society class leaders and a valuable keepsake 355 pages of inspiration and guidance to teaching gospel lessons so that they come alive. And stay alive in the minds of all who hear them. By Only $1.25 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44
East South Temple P. O. Box 958 HOWARD FR DRIGGS Salt Lake City 10, Utah copy. When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine Enclosed is $....0000000000... » Send.200.. Copies of "The Master's A: t'' at $1.25 U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 LT LAKE CITY, UTAH "For some must push and some must pull, As we go marching up the hill; So merrily on the way we go Until we reach the valley, O!" With a song on their lips they trudged forward. Hunger, sickness, even death, could not make them turn back. The faith, courage, and sacrifice of these heroic pioneers should serve cs an inspiration to ail who build for the future.