Armistice Day
Seven years will have elapsed, on November 11, since the plenipotentiaries of the German nation met General Foch in the beautiful forest of Compeigne and signed the Armistice that brought to a termination active hostilities in Europe. The memory of the horrors of the war seems to be so deeply implanted in the minds of the present generation that Armistice Day appears to be the most solemn day in all the year in European nations. It is not to be wondered at, for there in the open country near the fort at Verdun, four hundred thousand men fell whose bodies are unidentified, and whose bones have been gathered together and placed in a temporary ossuary. Behind the temporary building is a permanent building that is being erected by interested contributors from all over the world to be the receptacle for the bones of the men who died on the field of battle. In this building are various altars?altars where the Roman Catholic prays according to his convictions, and altars where those of Protestant persuasions can offer their devotions in accord with their idea of acceptable worship. It is, to put it in a blunt and crude way, a place of a jumble of bones. Everybody knows that in the Roman Catholic division they likely have many bones of Protestants, and in the Protestant division there are bones of many
EDITORIAL 583
Roman Catholics. These bones have been placed in boxes somewhat resembling a coffin in shape, but very much smaller in size. They are covered with a white cloth and flowers, and wreaths are constantly placed upon them by relatives and visitors who go there. At no great distance from the ossuary is a section where a group of soldiers died standing, with bayonets in hand. A shellburst, buried them just as they stood. The bayonets extend above the ground and a monument has been built around, with a canopy overhead to offer protection to the steel from inclement weather. It is a ghastly sight?one that stirs to the very depth? presenting a horrible picture of some of the terrible realities of the last war. There is no honor that can be paid these men that they have not merited through their sacrifice, but all the honor that we can pay them through laurel wreaths and flowers and the devotion of our lips and hearts is of little use unless we set to work to find the remedy for this most terrible of curses that has beset civilization in all periods of the world and which looms up in particular horror at this present time.
Home Again
After one year we are again back in the office, breathing the pure air of our mountain home. Frequently we met tourists on our travels who had visited the West. At such meetings we were pleased to note that they always had complimentary things to say about it. In Ireland on a stroll leading to the Killarney Lakes, there were three persons in the group, one from New York, one from Indiana and one from Ohio who had visited Utah, each in turn remarked upon the cleanliness of Salt Lake City. We are happy once more to greet the Magazine readers from our office in the Bishop's Building. During our sojourn we have communicated with you from France, Italy, Egypt, Syria, Switzerland, England, Ireland and Wales, so that word has reached you from many lands and from many climes. Asia, Africa and Europe are interesting, and it is a great privilege to visit places of such profound concern in the history and development of our world civilization, but it is equally gratifying at the end of such a sojourn, to have a home to come to such as we have in the valleys of the mountains. We certainly feel to exclaim, "God bless our mountain home so dear," with the writer of our hymn. We shall continue the travel articles until we have covered the countries visited, changing the caption to suit the circumstances. However, the article appearing in this issue of the Magazine will retain the old caption as it was written abroad.