World Happenings By James H. Anderson. Utah's population in 1920 was 85.8 percent native born white people. A woman's branch of the National League of Women Voters was organized at Provo, Utah, on October 28. Jews who have relatives in America are being allowed by the soviet government to leave Russia. London's (England) death rate in 1920 was 12.6 per thousand, while that of New York was 16.17. Women are more competent than men as pharmacists, is the announcement of the dean of Columbia College, New York. Floods in British Columbia, Florida, and elsewhere, in October, caused much property damage and some loss of life. A great fire in New York on November 4 destroyed extensive wharves on the Hudson river front, at a loss of over $5,000,000. Soviet Russia, thought by many people to be on the verge of collapse, does not seem to be in that condition for the present. Freight rates on grain and other farmer's products in the United States were reduced materially on November 20. Greek troops again defeated the Turkish nationalists in battle east of Constantinople the first week in November. Senator Philander C. Knox, one of the best friends the people of Utah had in the nation, died in October, aged 68 years. Autumn weather, in the western United States, was brighter, drier and warmer in 1921 than in any preceding year back to 1864. Spain still has its war in Morocco, and 20,000 more troops were sent there in November, with 120,000 additional Spanish troops called to arms. WORLD HAPPENINGS 717 Ex-Emperor Charles, of Austria, who recently endeavored to regain the Hungarian throne, is to be made an exile on one of the Maderia islands, as Napoleon was on St. Helena. Japan names as one condition of uniting in a peace movement that the United States discontinue fortifying its Pacific Islands possessions. Women learning to swim are declared by English authorities to prefer men instructors, alleging that the latter are more dependable in their work. Jewish physicians in the United States have coutributed one million dollars for the establishment of a medical college in connection with the university in Jerusalem. Aviation companies are being organized in New York and London to give an air-passenger service around the world in 17 days, in 1922. "Home brew" in the United States caused an alarming increase of premature deaths in 1921, because of the fatal poison in the immature brew. Juarez Stake academy ("Mormon") in Mexico, after being closed for several years because of disturbed conditions in the southern republic, began its 23d year with a good enrollment, on opening in 1921. Senator Reed Smoot's proposed tax system for the United States, although conceded to be the simplest and most equitable yet suggested, was not accepted by Congress in its present efforts at tax revision. Milk-wagon drivers in New York went out on strike on November 2, and as the strikers would not permit other men to take their places, a milk famine followed. David Lloyd George, British premier, could not come to America for the opening of the international disarmament conference, owing to the Irish situation, but may come later. Many thousands of coal miners in the middle western states went out on strike, on November 1, against a court order forbidding employers holding union dues out of the men's wages, for the union. British wireless communication around the world is expected to be completed in 1922—England to Palestine, Mesopotamia, India, South Africa, Australia and Canada. Eugene Lyman Fisk, New York health expert, announces that owing to her physical training the present day college girl in America is the best model of perfect health. Thrift was a timely topic by President Anthony W. Ivins at the "Mormon" Church conference iri Salt Lake City, in October. His suggestions being well worthy of careful perusual, and thoughtful consideration. A Catholic priest, in a recent conversation held in Ireland with Harold H. Jenson, correspondent of the Deseret News, declared: "The Sinn Feiners will fight till every man is killed'"—a poor outlook for permanent peace in Ireland. Pharaoah's palace, where Moses appeared before the Egyptian monarch, is being uncovered at the ancient Memphis, under the direction of Dr. Clarence F. Fisher, a curator of the university of Pennsylvania, and many interesting relics have been exhumed. Distinguished visitors to the United States in November were Marshal Foch, of France, Admiral Earl Beatty and wife, of England, and General Armando Diaz, of Italy—each a chief in his class in the late world war. Countess Lastazzi (an American lady), better known by her stage name of Miss Meredith, advises American girls not to go upon the stage in France, because ''the average society man is a brute" who aims at the girls' ruin for his own base purposes. The assassination of two premiers within one month— Premier Hara of Japan and Premier Granjo of Portugal—at the commencement of November, may have serious consequences in each of those nations, particularly in Japan, in the latter's international relations. Former Senator Sutherland, of Utah, has been named by President Harding as chairman of the advisory committee of - twenty-one at the Washington disarmament conference. J. Reuben Clark, also a native son of Utah, whose fame as an international lawyer is nation-wide, is one of the technical staff of thirty-four at the conference. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - a President MRS. LUCY JANE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - -. First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBINSON - -. Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Susa Youn ates Mrs. Lelene Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia Childs Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosanna C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist Editor: - - Susa Younc Gates Business Manager - - - - - - - - Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - - - -: - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VII DECEMBER, 1921 No. THE YEAR'S OLD AGE CHRISTMAS TIDE To children, to youth, and to early maturity, the Christmas season brings thoughts of joy, feasting and present-giving. But to those who have reached the youth of old age, the month of December brings thoughts of the aging days soon to fall asleep in the cradle of the infant new year. Age with its frequent loneliness, its loss of capacity, its failure of early ambitions, and above all the growing feeling that no one needs or wishes us about, this is our tragedy! Talk of Christmas gifts! Once a year presents—what are they to the lonely aching heart of age! How can one bright holiday make up for months of forgotten needs! We aging women want congenial work to do each day! Health to do our work!—opportunity to work. That is heaven to any normal human being. Work and a quiet room of our own, one loved companion near—ah, then Christmas brings good cheer. If the young-old woman has cultivated the habit of reading —the papers, novels, and most especially the Bible and Book of Mormon, she will find infinite comfort and company in her reading, particularly in the glorious books of the scriptures. She should not read in an accidental way, but read them right through —again and again. Orson Pratt once said he had read the Book of Mormon sixty-three times. It grows richer and. Fuller with each reading. This aging woman must work, cook, sew, patch, embroider, peel potatoes, knit—she can always knit, even if her eyes trouble 720 ner. If you could see the blessed old blind women in the temple waiting in the hall to go forward—visiting happily, and knitting — knitting—you would feel that you could find work to do, no matter who you were or where you were. Don't be idle. Find an absorbing interest—in your grandchildren, in the thrilling news of the day, in the Relief Society, or, best of all, in the temple! If you can live in a temple district, go to the sacred courts of the House of the Lord and there find rest, peace and throbbing interest in life. If you don't, try to learn how to keep temple records or make temple clothing, or do the housework for your busy daughter while she writes in your records. If you must eat the bread of dependence, avoid interfering with your "in-laws." Even let your own daughters and sons alone, unless they seek advice and counsel. It is hard for mothers and mothers-in-law—after you have been the hub of a swift moving wheel for forty or fifty flying years—it is hard to find yourself just a spoke in the wheel, and often an insecure, rather wobbly spoke, at that. But learn the new lesson—don't meddle with child, or either parent. Just keep your eyes shut— like you do when your reckless son is driving the ''Tin Lizzie," on one wheel around a dugway. Keep still and pray! But don't be idle. Keep busy. Find something to do that will really help your dear ones. At the same time, don't neglect the spirits of the dead who are crying out for help on the Other Side. Braid rag rugs, knit, patch, darn stockings, peel potatoes, wash dishes!— you will never fail to be welcome in any household if you work happily at these homely and healthy tasks. Write letters, keep accounts for your children. Above all, honor the son or the son-inlaw who is the head of the household wherein you may be dependent. Never allow insubordination, in your own heart, or in the heart of your daughter, to the counsels of the man of the house. Avoid pitying your daughter or yourself. Strengthen her will and your own by a firm resolve to be obedient to counsel and to honor the Priesthood. Only so can you have peace in your heart, or in her home. Do every possible thing to make others pleased and happy, then you will be happy yourself. If the Christmas finds you with only your regular darning and patching all done up, even these small tasks will be sanctified and glorified with the Christmas glow and cheer which beautify the giver and the doer of deeds far more than the receiver. Don't be dependent, don't feel dependent. Earn your way—if not with work and toil, then earn it in a far more beautiful way, with smiles and sympathy and sweet encouragement to all around you. Learn to pay daily compliments to your loved ones about the becomingness of dress, their good cooking or excellent behavior. One verbal boquet is worth a bunch of tea roses. EDITORIAL 721 The most glorious way to spend your remaining months or even years is in the temple. Persuade your children to contribute each a certain amount—if you have no financial resources of your own because you have foolishly given your children your home and property—persuade them—and they certainly owe you that much—each to pay a small monthly sum to you and with that you go to a temple for the winter, in Dixie, in Logan, or in Manti; take a tiny room, do a bit of patching and darning for your neighbors, on the days you are not in the temple, to earn a few extra dollars. O the independence of your life; O the delight of knowing someone needs you; O the joy of saving suuls; and O the peace which will come to your soul and to the souls of your children when the Christmas time comes around and they proudly say, "My mother is so happy. She spends all her time in the temple." And you reply gratefully and humbly, "How glorious is the Christmas to those who are privileged to partake, in spirit and in truth, of the Christlike mission, which is peace on earth, good will to men, here and on the Other Side! NOTE OF CORRECTION One more mistake must be corrected concerning the authorship of the story, "The Wages of Sin," which was published in the October number of the Magazine, and which has already been corrected once. Lucy Guyman Bloomfield did not write the story, but Lucy S. Burnham did. Address all communications for this department to the editor, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and not to the . Add the author's name to verses, articles, or stories which may be sent in and which sometimes get separated from the letter which accompanies them. MISTAKES When a plumber makes a mistake he charges twice for it. When a lawyer makes a mistake, it is just what he wanted, because he has a chance to try the case all over again. When a carpenter makes a mistake it is just what he expected.; When a doctor makes a mistake he buries it.; men a judge makes a mistake it becomes the law of the and. When a preacher makes a mistake nobody knows the difference. When an electrician makes a mistake, he blames it on the induction; nobody knows what that means. But when an editor makes a mistake—Good night! Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) PRAYER The time: morning and evening. The place: preferdbly the best room in the house. Those taking part should face one another in a family circle: Procedure: father presides, and in his absence, the mother directs. Each member of the family of sufficient age takes turns. This practice should prevail from the day of marriage until the end of earth life. As to the matter of taking turns, children are very sensitive. One lad said to his father, 'Papa, why don't you ever give Mama a chance to pray?" A survey of the prayer habits of the students of the Brigham Young University showed more faithfulness in secret prayer than in family prayer. Relatively few were able to report that they took their turn in offering prayer in the family devotion. The survey also showed more faithfulness in attending secret prayers in the evening than. In the morning. The choice between the value of a morning and an evening prayer would seem to go decidedly in favor of the former—if we consider under which condition we need most help, awake or asleep. The Parts of the Family Prayer: The first part of the family prayer would naturally be composed of thanksgiving, pouring out of gratitude. It is quite natural and surely theological. Following this, in theological order, would come the remembrance of others. Under the instruction given by the Master we pass with love of God to love of man. See Matt. 26:37, 39. Among those never to be forgotten in our family devotion are the authorities of the Church, with special mention of the First Presidency. The value of having the prophet's name mentioned in our family devotion is greater than it is generally thought to be. Having expressed our gratitude to the Lord and remembered others before him, we come to the petition for whatever the needs of the hour of the day seem to be, and among those needs is always spiritual guidance, protection, and forgiveness. One boy in his first family prayer asked the Lord to keep scolding and quarreling out of the family for that day. This is an example of originality and frankness which should be en- GUIDE LESSONS 723 couraged and practiced in our family devotion. Every day we need forgiveness and it should be asked for with a remembrance that we must forgive others. This will foster humility and charity, two of the greatest of the virtues. These petitions suited to the needs of the hour will prevent the family prayer from becoming stereotyped. While these are the three elements of the family prayer, the order of presentation will naturally be varied. Answers to Prayers: If we can know that the Lord's view of our needs is superior to our own we shall not have our faith shaken through failing to get a quick and favorable answer to any prayer. The speed with which things are attended to in heaven is often conditioned by our conduct here. Doc. And Cov. 101:7. Sometimes there are unusual obstacles thrown in the way of our receiving an answer. Daniel 10:10-13, with attention to verse 13. Sometimes an answer is withheld because of our unreadiness to receive it, and sometimes the answer comes in a way that our expectation made it as unrecognizable to us as was the Messiah to the Jews who had been praying for him to come since the days of Abraham, but we may be certain that no consistent petition sent on the wings of faith from earth willl ever be thrown into the waste basket of heaven. Some Things to Think and Talk About: 1. Prayer is the simplest and surest way to form a loving acquaintance with the Lord. 2. Praying only when we are in distress is unmistakable evidence of both ingratitude and weakness. 3. Praying with our children will affect their salvation more than praying for them. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What do you think of this proposition: If parents neglect the Lord, their children will be apt to neglect them? 2. What was the occasion of the first prayer, and who took part therein? Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, Chapter 8:44, first sentence. 3. Does this scripture indicate that this prayer was a family prayer? 4. Would an occasional concert prayer be advantageous in the family circle? 5. Wherein is the forming of a family circle, of devotional value in prayer? 6. Emulate the essential contents of the family prayer. 7. Which part of the family prayer prevents the service from becoming monotonous? 724 8. What are the difficulties in the way of regularity in family prayer, and how may they best be overcome?, Why should the ward teachers know whether we attend to our prayers or not? 10. What is the value of an intelligent "amen" to a group prayer? LESSON II Work and Business. (Second Week in February) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in February) Professor George Careless, noted composer and musician, has made a contribution to the hymns of the Latter-day Saints that is invaluable. In a recent conversation with Professor Careless, he said that he had set the music to seventy L. D. S. Hymns. Much of this music has been composed for special occasions. It is the purpose of this lesson to devote itself to some of these compositions. George Careless reached the valleys of the mountains in the year 1864. He had traveled from London to New York on a sailing vessel called Hudson. When they were near landing, -indeed so near to it that the effects of the ship were packed, the captain of the vessel asked Professor Careless to compose a piece of music for him. Consenting to this request, Professor Careless looked about for some place where he might rest his paper while he wrote. Finally, he discovered a barrel of bacon in the corner of the ship. He immediately made use of it, and on it wrote the music of "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," which he called Hudson. Professor Careless had been the leader of the London choir in the London branch of the Church. On the vessel with him were a group of persons who had sung in that choir. He called them together, and they learned the music quickly, and sang it to the captain. The composer presented the captain with a copy of the music before leaving the ship. It is beautiful music, set to beautiful words, and its name suggests one of America's most beautiful spots. In the month of August, 1870, a very important debate took place in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. This debate was between Dr. J. P. Newman, of Washington, D. C. And Elder Orson Pratt of the Council of Twelve. Rev. Newman was well known because of his connection with the United States Senate, having served as GUIDE LESSONS 725 chaplain of that body, while Orson Pratt was very generally looked upon as a profound student and an orator of very exceptional ability. Professor George Careless, director of the Tabernacle Choir at that time, tells us that the Sunday prior to the debate, President Brigham Young called him aside and said, "Brother George, the people will be very timid next Sunday, because of Mr. Newman's great reputation, as a preacher, therefore, I want you to sing something that will hearten and give courage to the congregation." Professor Careless tells us that he sat down in one of the choir seats and composed a piece of music on the spur of the moment. He called it "Courage" and set it to the words "Hark listen to the trumpeters." It was sung for the first time when the great assembly met to listen to the speeches that opened the famous debate. This music may be found in the L. D. S. Psalmody, published under the caption "Courage." The brief time consumed in its composition reminds one of the fact that Nevin is reputed to have written the music to the "Rosary" in fifteen minutes. Professor Careless has always exhibited a great deal of genius in writing music for special occasions, certainly this incident is no exception to the rule. In the exquisite music of "Rest for the weary soul," set to the words written by Henry W. Naisbitt, we bring together, as in "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," words and music by an L. D. S. Author and composer. This music was written to be sung at the funeral services of Joseph Young, the eldest brother of Brigham Young, who was connected with the First Council of Seventy, the father of Dr. Seymour B. Young, and the grandfather of Professor Levi Edgar Young. Later, it was sung at the service of Joseph Standing, the first martyr of the Southern States mission. The combination of Henry W. Naisbitt's words and the Careless music has produced an effect not often reached in funeral hymns. This hymn has been sung at the graves of many people connected with the Latter-day Saints Church, and with many not of its number. The key note of the entire hymn is Rest. The first stanza suggests rest from physical pain and exhaustion. The second stanza tells us that the battle of this life is over, then follows the equisite figure, Rest, where the gates are closed With each evening's setting sun. The third stanza i sdevoted to the thought of that peace that pervades the heavenly domain, "Peace, where no strife intrudes" Death brings to an end the struggle Of our "wild life's busy hum." The fourth stanza carries the same thought as the third, 726 the thought of peace, and adds that death frees the oppressed, and closes with the effective lines, "For the angels guard those well Who sleep on their mother's breast." The last stanza is a fitting climax to the hymn, it suggests peace and music, and finally the resurrection morn where "life's victory is won." From a purely literary standpoint two features distinguish this hymn. First, there is a mingling of the thought and feeling of rest and peace; secondly, the style, and under this head we note the diction, but particularly a group of effective figures of speech which, coupled with the thought and feeling, raise the hymn at times into the realm of poetry. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give a brief sketch of the life of George Careless. Material to be found in Jenson's Biographical Encyclopedia. 2. Give names as nearly as possible of the persons who have served as conductors of the Tabernacle Choir. 3. Discuss the proposition: The Tabernacle choir, an important factor in establishing the musical prestige of this intermountain country. 4. What does it mean to be chaplain of the United States Senate? 5. Have the words of "Hark, listen to the trumpters" read to the group; have the organist play the Careless music, "Courage.' Listen carefully to both words and music, and see if you think the composer accomplished his purpose, that of producing a hymn that would inspire courage. 6. Give a brief sketch of the life of Henry W. Naisbitt. 7. Name the hymns in the Latter-day Saint hymn book attributed to his authorship? 8. What does the poet mean when he speaks of sleeping on mother's breast? 9. What words of the hymn carry the note of hope? 10. Discuss this proposition: A funeral hymn failing to carry the note of hope, fails in its purpose. LESSON IV Social Service. (Fourth Week in February) LEADERSHIP IN THE HOME In our previous lesson we observed two ways in which the home is regarded, first, as a preparatory school for training boys and girls for useful service in the community, the church, the GUIDE LESSONS 727 state, and the nation; secondly, as an end in itself, a sort of ideal life, one for which we must make preparation, if our ideal is to be realized. According to this viewpoint, the schools and our religious organizations become means to the end of better home life. Preparation for home leadership is thus a preparation for real life, a life to which every normal man and woman should look forward. In this lesson, when we speak of home leadership, we mean such leadership as is expected of a husband and father, wife and mother. This, however, does not mean that other members of the family, such as a grown up son or daughter, may not contribute in certain ways and at different times, to home leadership. Very often a young man or young woman in the family possesses skill or information which the family is very much in need of and which parents may not possess. When such is the case, it is to the advantage of all that such responsibility of leadership should be placed upon them. WHAT HOME LEADERSHIP IMPLIES To be a leader in the home is a responsibility quite-as difficult as it is important. The demands upon such leadership, although numerous, may be classified under three headings, those necessary for life, those essential to health, and thirdly, those essential to moral and spiritual welfare. (1) The first demand is that of providing food, clothing and shelter for the family. The basic importance of this requirement cannot be over estimated; in fact, the very existence of the family depends upon the satisfying of this need. (2) The second class of demands is also significant, that of knowing how to care for the physical bodies, especially those of growing children. The child must be guarded and protected on every hand from accidents and diseases. And when sick he must be nursed back to health. The intelligence and skill required here is of a very high order. Of course, expert assistance may be employed to help the family meet the demand for health, but the extent to which doctors, nurses, and hospital services are employed will depend largely upon the income of the family. The average home can afford to employ health experts only when emergency requires it. Home _ leadership must, in general, embody health leadership. (3) The third duty which home leadership must perform, the moral and spiritual education of the family, is even more difficult than the second. This kind of service cannot be bought with money. There are no expert moral and spiritual physicians that we can employ to help us solve questions of this order. Father and mother must possess the intelligence and skill required to protect the home from vice and to promote wholesome moral and spiritual life within the circle. EDUCATION FOR HOME LEADERSHIP God has endowed most parents with powers and capacities to meet, with a fair degree of success, the demands which are made of them. But these capacities may never come out and show themselves unless we make an effort to bring them forth. We must educate ourselves to think, we must school our feelings, we must train our impulses to wait until the more careful judgment gives command. Home leadership needs to cultivate exemplary habits. It needs to develop guiding principles, high ideals. But good habits are not formed, nor are ideals developed, without effort. Individual application, diligence, coupled with our natural endowments on the one hand, and the splendid religious and. Educational institutions on the other, should make it possible to develop among the Latter-day Saints as high a type of home leadership as the world has ever known. FACTORS IN EDUCATION FOR HOME LEADERSHIP We are not unappreciative of the great service the public schools and our religious organizations have rendered in educating young people for home life. But as parents we are becoming more fully aware of what home leadership means, and ever more conscious of our limitation in meeting the many demands that the home makes of us. We believe that the schools and the Church are capable of rendering even greater service in this respect, if only we will make proper use of them. We believe that young people who, within a few years are to take upon themselves the responsibilities of home leadership should be educated to sense its importance. They should be taught first of all to take a more serious attitude toward such subjects as marriage and parenthood. Sush an attitude of mind would follow very naturally if education were headed a little more in the direction of the home (or at least not away from it). Every step taken by the schools and other educational organizations in this direction should be encouraged by parents. Our ideal will be reached only when (1) both men and women understand the seriousness of the religious and social obligations which the marriage relation imposes: (2) when they have a knowledge of the art of home building, including habits of thrift, economy, and industry; (3) when they are taught the fundamental laws and principles of physical and mental health, and (4) lastly, and by no means least in importance—when young people are educated in the basic laws of moral and mental growth and the best method of home education which will bring this about. 'In the lessons which are to follow, these questions will be treated more in detail. GUIDE LESSONS 729 QUESTIONS 1. How might the duties of home leadership be classified? 2. (a) Which of these duties call for special educational preparation? (b) Which can be met by good common sense? (c) Which of these obligations will money satisfy? (d) Which depend entirely upon the intelligent effort of the parents? 3. Why is the home a better place than a public institution for the moral and spiritual education of children? 4, What kind of education do you consider to be desirable for home leadership? 5. Describe (a) an ideal father, (b) an ideal mother. 6. In what way does our Church organization educate young people for the responsibilities of the home? 7. What are the high schools and colleges doing for the home? What more do you think they could do to assure good homes? 8. According to an educator of wide recognition, "eighteen out of one hundred college girls state bodily that they would rather be men than women," and more than "one-half of the school girls in these censuses choose male ideals, as if those of femininity are disintegrating." How do you account for this condition? TEACHERS' TOPIC (February) The Month of Patriotism 1, The Auxiliary Organizations' Slogan, "We stand for loya'. Citizenship." 2. Washington and Lincoln, the highest types of loyal citizenship. Their loftiest ambition—their country's good. 3. Meeting of obligations and discharging: duties the test of loyalty., a. Prompt payment of dues and offerings. B. Regular attendance at meetings and support of officers., — Life's Mirror Trio for Women's Voices Affectionately inscribed io Chorister Lizzie Thomas Edward and members of the General Relief Society Choir Larghetto. Met. J—60. | pa 4 rs i o e \eurasia 1. To ere _— Y ey a mf === 4: eo: - ccm * Ir 4 2: —————— = = = EO a | = ae =— mp 1. There are loy - al hearts, there are 2, Give truth and your gift will be {} aE = aa Ci | = < — 2 =e > - - - Be Sr (2 ee, <oSo: Se eSo) 2 aie ae Cer A yy 5 See eet are ae = poco rit. Mp -o= fs ~ ' F -o~ -9- -o- ° ' | <—-— Po: J; ne i al = _ Ul SS ee ee =. T oe: 3 | | N a ee ee —— i — a ee er a Pe ee EE —————e 7 el " 7 et f spir - its brave. Thereare souls that are pure and ~-o Y--o v sa —_ Se —— ame | = | F(a = =r aT. J= =e] Se e -—e— . + 4 6 = Words by MADELINE BRIDGES. Oe paid in kind, And Music by EpNa H. Coray. Eo hon - or will hon - or fa) ~ 7 nl > > Te, | 7 J a ~p 0 2 o- 7 7 = — Som = ee —— | Se ee mov true: Then give to the world the meet; Anda smile that is sweet will > a 4 — oe — 1 a i — bad =" Be. = e fe: e— 1, — —p---——__ 5 ——9-_ ¢ — _—_—_— =| = r I | 1 r Gu —= CVES secarccnscnccscevecscoecssees rs e — =o | — 2 —— : aa Ee 4 ee =e z5 > > > > A?) | 4 taf o 2 t << = = S——s3= s| o_ = ————— | vo 7] Ai? Best you have, Andthe best will come back to sure - ly find A smile that is just as n > 3 >, > A Ec q 5 T IN 4 + { g=—S-E =. = =4 cy, Us ge= U fe ie * oe = = 4 —— ——— se ee ae = oS ee ee SS SS =e — ze= oe vot | | U f | a! N eS SCE | a: Free a7 — 9% — 1 IZ aE | mt 1 _ eo: we oe "ez. Get - r= > | | — | Ne N aS ee ee vo ri e (==? #--bg P= een Oe v—_~— a as you. Give love, and love to your sweet. For life is the mir - ror of yaX mn' a ___ ff — a | A= —3 re ee ee | a a} q—5 tbs 4 qa Fs t q e - ig! Ar e = th py eS. E es —p— 0 DO Ee 8 = ES — ane se ed od p dim e rit. Meno mosso.. S = Dp: Da-— —— —a H ae SS ee ee t t be: Sar a 732 —": caemter te—p—2— bends ia ne — 2 Se a ee ry aie t—7r 7 t iy? * life will flow, A strength in your ut - most king and slave, Tis just what we are and ray he. = z= = a a yore or a ee ae = re, 6d he -0- 9e% bes i oS: 2-9. Hs oe == ==: zpi = SSE a | be: | oe: a a fa r 8: — ba: ie — EF hos E — ' 4 — i=: | Ll nd eo: ft = — paz a — ya =>. Oe —z e_J=a NX a ———— a eo i F a; need, a tempo mf Have faith, anda score of do. Then give to the world the 4 CC —_ = = el = =a — ——— ———— == fies ~eee oe -_ ame o-: & ipde. [ie fe! 3 ad pe Dp = cae ee — oo z o—e So cee cece ees = a aol a tempo mf. A | rg | ———— <a" 2 2 Oe = ———— ——— es a = 4 n| Ist _ _ > en a ewe ale E _— a a - —— | = =n an e ¢ = $ best =: you have, And the rall. T { | \ | lst N 1 nf de od feels SY L6 ye So & —- fee ~ =e > — a =a 0 a 2 2 = a ie? SS —— oe arS I au { | —_ ff 'Tk il a. Oe |e il ayy ie rit. ' molto rall. Cres. Ff a _—__— oO =I —s 5 WW = — 2 on 5 oe r I r aga Co = =: oe We -r e oe oe SERVICE PRESS Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044. LIFE'S MIRROR hearts will show, Their 228 West Broadway, 733 faith in your word and Salt Lake City To the SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for Your Expiration! Are You a Subscriber to the ? If not you are missing an opportunity to keep in touch with Relief Society work; and also the opportunity to help solve your Relief Society and home problems. Send your subscription to 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock;; Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME—36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2. 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City It is our helpfulness and willing: ness in assuming the responsibility for the succcess of every meal, that "me DICKINSON'S the Household Word in hundreds of happy homes Quality—Cleanliness—A, ccuracy—Dependability CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES Ladies Tailoring and Dressmaking Alterations Reasonable Send your hemstitching, accordeon plaiting, buttons and dry cleaning by parcel post Quick Service Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Western Scout SHOES A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybedy, Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"—the kind they make at Phone Was. 2861 ° ° 6 Main St., Salt Lake | Lumiere Studio t 680 East 2nd South Street 715 So. 8th E. Hyland 60 Hy. 4152 W. Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month for the Past Ten Months One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have you seen it?