[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | June | Issue: 23 | Title: CONVENTION OF WOMAN’S CLUBS. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

CONVENTION OF WOMAN’S CLUBS.

	THE Utah Federation of Clubs held its
annual Convention in this city May 26 and
27, commencing at 10.30 on Wednesday
morning, May 26. There was a good
sized audience in the Church and the dec-
orations of flowers and plants were very
fine. It was interesting to note the person-
nel of the women who took part in the pro-
ceedings, for however beautiful any hall
may be, it is not so much of a study as
human nature; and we have often thought
the studies from life in an assembly of this
kind were very valuable. The entire
audience was quite enthusiastic in their
welcome to Mrs. Henrotin, the General
President. The President, Mrs. Jennings,
is a very fine executive officer, and has a
winning manner, and Mrs. Henrotin of
Chicago has a graceful and attractive style
about her, and one knows directly that she
has been much in society.
	Then there were three other distinct
types of women, the guests from Colorado;
besides the visitors from Ogden, Provo,
Springville and elsewhere. In fact it was
a most delightful collection of women, if
one may be permitted the expression, and
the occasion was inspiring and exhilarating.
There was so much to do and to say and
the enthusiasm never flagged, at least that
is the expression of one member present.
	The opening invocation was by Mrs. N.
F. Putnam and was earnest and eloquent.
Minutes of last year read and approved.
Next, the credentials in the hands of a com-

[Column 2]
mittee who reported all the clubs in the
Federation represented. Next, business
was the admission of new clubs, five in
number as follows: Woman’s Athaeneum
of Park City; S. B. L., Coalville Home
Culture, Ogden; Ogden Historical Society;
and Provo Sorosis. Then came the address
of welcome by Mrs. E. B. Wells and response
by Mrs. M. H. Graham. Vice-President of
the Federation, which was given in a very
pleasing way and was quite poetical in con-
struction and in rendering. We regret
very much that we have not space for all
the speeches given and business transacted,
but we can say truthfully that it was a
most instructive session of meetings and we
feel much real good has been gained by
women In thus affiliating and helping each
other.
	After the two days meeting a reception
was given by the club women on Thurs-
day evening at the elegant residence of
Mrs. W. A. Nelden, at which there was a
fair sprinkling of gentlemen among the
many ladies. The spacious parlors were
fragrant and beautiful with flowers, and
the music by Olsen’s Band was most inspir-
ing. In a social way the affair was a perfect
success. Among the distinguished gentle-
men present were Mr. Charles Henrotin of
Chicago, Apostle H. J. Grant, President
Angus M. Cannon, C. S. Kinney, W E.
Halm, Dr. A. C. Ewing, Rev. A. H. Henry,
Dr. Plummer and Mr. McCormick, and
scores of beautiful and intellectual women.
SPEECH OF WELCOME, MRS. E. B. WELLS.
	Mrs. President Henrotin, Mrs. Presi-
dent Jennings, delegates, visitors from a
distance and from adjacent cities, good
friends one and all- In behalf of the Salt
Lake clubs we give you sincere and heart-
felt greetings, and we rejoice to welcome
you to our fair city in the vales of the
Rocky Mountains. We congratulate this
assembly of club women today that they
are honored with the presence of the emi-
nent Mrs. Henrotin, whose name and fame
we all know throughout Utah, because of
her connection with the Columbian Ex-
position and we feel that she is very near to
the ladies assembled here on account of oc-
cupying the honorable position of president
of the general Federation of Women’s-
clnbs of which the Utah Federation is one
small branch and though it may appear
very small in comparison with other larger
states that have had greater advantages,
yet we are all aware that very often the
smaller branches of great trees are more
fruitful, if not more beautiful than those
that have attained to a greater size and a
more luxuriant growth of foliage.
	And we hope the Utah branch may
blossom and eventually bear fruit of such
excellent quality that it will not suffer by
comparison with older and larger states,
but like the fruitful bough may hang over
the Rocky Mountain wall that hems Utah
in, and become known and appreciated in
other lands.
	We are proud to have Mrs. Henrotin
and the Colorado women in our midst, and
we extend fraternal greetings to Mrs.
Thatcher, president of the Colorado Feder-
ation, to Mrs. Gale, its vice-president, and
to Mrs. Platt, president of the Denver Wo-
man’s club, and we hope to make the so-
journ in our city of these distinguished
representatives of progress and literary
merit a delightful holiday.
	We proffer to our guests the hand of


[Column 1]
fellowship and good will, and trust while
assembled in these gatherings there shall be
such happy interchange of ideas and mutual 
thought, that we shall all of us forever after,
feel richer in knowledge and wisdom, and
have a better understanding of each other’s
conception of the duties and obligations of
life, and of that large duty we all owe to
each other and to the great world of
humanity.
	Again, we welcome the visitors to our
hearts and homes, feeling assured it is
good for us to know each other better and
thus learn to love each other more, to have
greater charity, because of the larger oppor-
tunity afforded through the association that
comes through our local clubs and the
grouping of clubs in the State, and the fur-
their grouping of the several states, bring-
ing into touch and cementing the love and
fellowship of the women of America, in
one golden chain, reaching from the Atlan-
tic to the Pacific, and from Canada to the
Gulf of Mexico; and in the grand galaxy
of bright stars, be sure the intermountain
states (whose highest altitude scarce equals
the lofty ideas of their generosity to women)
will shine with a brilliancy of setting of
which we who are honored with the full
rights of citizenship may be justly proud.
	In closing my remarks on this auspici-
ous and happy occasion, pardon me if I re-
vert for one moment to the spirit of the wo-
men Pioneers of this now fair State, who
in the early days of the valley though liv-
ing in a primitive way, far removed from
the great cities of the world, in keeping
with the progressive spirit of the age and
believing in the advancement of women,
established in this city, the first woman’s
paper in this intermountain region a quarter
of a century ago, and the first except one,
west of the Mississippi river. I merely
cite this fact to prove that Western women,
although perhaps lacking the culture of the
East, have not been behind in ideas at least
of woman’s higher education and literary
attainments.
	In conclusion we extend to you a true
and tender welcome to our own mountain
home, in the new State, the forty-fifth
star in the dear old flag, the Stars and
Stripes that in these mountain states, Colo-
rado, Wyoming, Utah and Idaho float over
free women as well as free men.
	Let us hope and believe that the in-
spiration of this convention may stimulate
us to greater efforts for good in all direc-
tions and along all lines and give us more
exalted and sublime ideals to work to, and
at length attain a complete realization of
the best and highest advancement possible
to reach in the pursuit of true knowledge
on the highway of life.
MRS. MCVICKER.
	Mrs. Emma J. McVicker of the Cleofan,
gave a most interesting talk on the evo-
lution of the model pupil in which she said:
“A knowledge of childhood is necessary to
a knowledge of all the ’ologies. Many
things are gained by cultivating the study
of nature, only through works of creation
can the child understand the Creator. A
child’s first instinct is to build, next comes
the plastic instinct, he instinctively desires
to mold, and if allowed full play his creative
powers will bring out many beautiful re-
sults. All children are sensible to music
and rhythm.
	The greatest principle of development
is self activity. The development of the

[Column 2]
child corresponds to the development of the
race. The child takes care of that himself,
putting himself through a course of gym-
nastics from childhood to manhood.
	The kindergarten is the only system
which enables the child to develop along all
lines. The system has proven such a suc-
cess that the kindergarten idea will soon be
carried out in the lower grades of the pub-
lic schools.”
EVENING SESSION.
	After an organ selection by Professor
Radcliffe, Mrs. Jennings introduced Mrs.
Henrotin, who commenced her address by
stating that she was usually accustomed to
speak only to ladies and that it gave her
additional pleasure to include the gentle-
men among her hearers, as this presence
indicated that the gentlemen of Salt Lake
City were most devoted to the woman’s
cause. She cited three instances that had
come within her personal experience where
prominent public men had made most perti-
nent statements in regard to this cause.
One of them was a remark by Cardinal
Gibbons before a meeting of clergymen in
France that the labor movement and the
movement for the advancement of women
must go on hand in hand, and that as soon as
that fact was recognized the solution of the
two problems would be reached. Another
was a statement by Prince Bismarck that if
the great government of Germany were to
survive, the women of the land must be-
come interested in politics. The speaker
also repeated a public utterance of one of
the great labor leaders of this country to
the effect that now that the women were
learning organization the labor question
would soon be settled. Mrs. Henrotin
then reviewed the history of woman’s or-
ganization, and the incidents that led to
the formation of the present federation.
She said that as women were naturally ad-
apted to the most inaggressive methods, she
chose education as her first step, and that
the development had reached a point now
that there was no woman’s club in America
where education, politics and religion could
not be discussed freely. Soon after the
educational feature was well advanced the
department clubs commenced to be formed
and many instances were cited, particularly
among the department clubs of Chicago and
Minnesota, showing the good they had ac-
complished. Federation, which is the
principle of modern civilization, naturally
followed local and state organization, and
the National Federation which commenced
with 30 clubs, now had a membership of
500 clubs. The speaker declared that the
federation in its liberty and freedom was the
greatest example of organization that the
world had ever seen. The women of Utah
were second only to those of Maine in em-
bracing the federation principle. Mrs.
Henrotin gave several amusing incidents
that had followed the department club work,
among them being the town and village
improvement associations, where the women
of these clubs taught the school children to
become interested in this work. She told
of one little girl who reported to her local
association that she had not been able to ac-
complish much herself but she had induced
her brother to cut the grass in their yard,
and a small boy reported that all he had
been able to do was to stop every man he
met and ask him not to spit on the side-
walks.
	One of the advantages of club life and
federation which Mrs. Henrotin point

[Column 3]
out was that it produced a strong, healthy 
social life and a spirit of true fellowship
which is not to be found in what is or-
dinarily known as society. It produced
a democracy among women which nothing
else could accomplish. The Woman’s
Federation had no one leader, for hundreds
of women were coming into the movement
daily and were giving their hearts to the
work and each would thus lead the other.
Mrs Henrotin closed her address by urging
her hearers to maintain the spirit of organ-
zation at all times.
	Mrs. Thatcher, the president of the Colo- 
rado Federation, then read an address in 
which she extended greetings and congratu-
lations to the women of Utah, and after re-
viewing the work that women had accom-
plished in her own state she extended a
cordial invitation to all present to attend the
coming sessions of the Federation in
Denver.
	Mrs. Gale, the vice-president of the
Colorado Federation, made a most amusing
address in which there were many good-
natured references to the work of the or-
ganization and the persons connected with
it. She apologized for not speaking at
some length by saying that as Mrs. Hen-
rotin had reviewed the work of the national
federation, and Mrs. Thatcher bad exhaust-
ed the subject of the Colorado federation,
and as Mrs. Platt who was to follow her
would talk of everything under the sun,
there was nothing left for her to say. Her
remarks related largely to the work of west-
ern women in general as compared with
that of their sisters east of the Mississippi.
She expressed the greatest pride in the
work accomplished by western women,
particularly those of Colorado and Utah.
	After another organ selection by Profes-
sor Radcliffe, Mrs. Platt, the president of
the Denver Woman’s club, delivered the
closing address of the evening and the num-
ber of bright, amusing stories that she
told in connection with her remarks were
appreciated by the audience. Her speech
was not confined entirely to the subject of
woman, but she had much to say on the
subject of man, among other things that
she wished to see the day come when man
could be taken into women’s clubs, but she
was afraid that there was only one way to
do this and that was like the story of the
New York flats where cruel-hearted land-
lords, no matter how badly they may want
to see their property rented, make the iron-
clad provision that no children shall be ad-
mitted. A little girl whose parents had
made many unsuccessful attempts to rent
a flat and had always been refused on ac- 
count of their child, finally saw another
little girl leaning out of the window of one
of the flats and in her amazement she asked
her how she ever got in there. The other
little girl replied that she was “borned”
in there.
	Mrs. Platt denied the existence of such
a being as the ‘‘new woman” and said
that the only thing new about her was her
club life and organization and the good she 
had accomplished by taking her proper 
place in life. Man need not fear that wo-
man would outstrip him in the race as he
had such a long start before woman com-
menced. Mrs. Platt argued that woman’s
work in the world for the advancement of
her own sex and the relief of distressed hu-
mauity could not destroy her sphere in the
home, and she urged her hearers to regard
home life in the same light that any good
man would regard it.


She dwelt at length on the spirit of
fellowship which club life and organiza-
tion produced among women. Mrs. Platt’s
remarks drew forth continued applause at
the close and her hearers desisted only after
she arose and told them that unless they
did so she would tell them another story.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
