[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | June | Issue: 23 | Title: RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. | Author: Unknown]

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Katherine Hickerson
who departed this life April 2, 1897, at Kanosh,
aged eighty years, one month and twenty-nine
days. She was the daughter of William and
Malinda Hickerson was born in Tennessee Feb.
3, 1817, came to Utah in 1856 and was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, Aug. 1857. She was first married to Sam-
son Miles by whom she had eight children, one
son and three daughters still living to mourn her
departure. She was afterwards sealed in plural
marriage to Thomas Woolsey, and lived
for a number of years in his family. She
was a faithful member in the Relief Soc ety of
the Kanosh ward and was always willing to do
her duty.
	Whereas, we acknowledge her loss, and readi-
ness at all times to give a helping hand, therefore
be it
	RESOLVED, That we sympathize with her fam-
ly and friends. Be it further
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be recorded
in th Relief Society records, and a copy sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
					ALICE RAPPLEYE, Sec. 
Kanosh, April 21, 1897.
MARY C. BLADEN.
	On the 12th day of April another of our, belov-
ed sisters and co-workers was called from our
midst, Sister Mary C. Bladen, a pioneer of this
place and a member of the Relief Society since
its first organization
	Sister Bladen was born in Arlshire, England,
and became a member of this Church in that
country. She emigrated to Utah with her hus-
band, Thomas Bladen, in the year 1851, coming
direct to Cedar City. For several years Sister
Bladen acted as teacher and afterwards as coun-
selor to Sister Jones (lately deceased;) she was
loved and respected by all who became acquaint-
ed with her. Though having lived to the age of
eighty-three years she was very active and al-
ways cheerfully engaged in administering to the
comforts of those around her until within two
weeks previous to her death. Her children, five
of whom are residents of this place, were with
her at the time of her death; and though we all
realize they have lost a loving mother and wise
counselor, yet we know it is her gain, and her
loving words of comfort cherished in their mem-
ory will be as a guiding star in their course through
life.
	Sister Bladen has lived to see quite a number
of great-grandchildren, her family connections
being very numerous. We feel to sincerely sym-
pathize with them in their bereavement.
			J.C. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
SISTER ISABELLA PRATT PRICE.
	In, memory of Sister Isabella Pratt Price who
departed this life February 25, 1897 She was
the daughter of George and Margaret Nelson
Pratt and was born in Armbey, Yorkshire, Eng-
land, October 26, 1824. She was baptized and
confirmed a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, April 8, 1845, at York-
shire, England.
	Sister Price joyfully received the Gospel but
could not understand the principle of gathering,
thought the Lord would save her in England
without the necessity of going to America. After
making the subject a matter of prayer, it was re-
vealed to her in a dream, the plan of salvation
for the Saints in the Latter days; after that she
had no more doubt about the gathering.
	Apostle Erastus Snow on his way to Denmark
on a mission preached in Bradford. She with
some others sought a blessing at his hands, he
said in part that she should go to Mount Zion and
be a savior in her father’s family, all of which has
been fulfilled; a few months after the blessing
was given she left England in the ship James
Pennel, October 3, 1850, to g ther with the Saints
in the gathering place appointed by the Lord.
	She was very faithful in the performance of her
Temple work, doing all she could f r her relatives

[Column 2]
and friends, and she was very anxious to continue
the work had her life been spared.
	She was a devoted mother, teaching her child-
ren the laws of the Gospel from their earliest
youth. She leaves three sons and two daughters
each of these faithful members in the Church,
numerous grand-children, relatives and friends
to mourn her loss.
	She obeyed all the principles of the Gospel as far
as they were revealed to her. She was a mother
to the motherless, performing a noble part. All
through her long illness she was tenderly cared
for by her son, Brigham F. and his wife Sister
Margaret Price
	Our dear sister was a faithful member of the
Relief Society. She was always in attendance
whenever her health would permit. She was a
very fluent, intelligent speaker. She was firm in
her convictions for the advancement of women, a
supporter of the EXPONENT and all good works
in that direction.
	She has finished her work in this probation
and gone to meet those of her loved ones whom
she has officiated for in the Temple of the Lord.
	The funeral services were held at the family
residence, the house was filled to overflowing
with sympathetic relatives and friends. Bishop
J. C. Hanson and Counselors were present; many
consoling remarks were made by the presiding
officers of the ward, each bore testimony to the
faithfulness of Sister Price. Beautiful flowers
covered the casket, the hymn “O my Father,”
was sung by the choir. A large cortege followed
the remains to the ward cemetery. “Blessed
are the dead that die in the Lord for their reward
is sure.”
			ELIZABETH HILL, Pres’t.
