[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | June | Issue: 23 | Title: BRIGHAM YOUNG’S BIRTHDAY. | Author: Unknown]

BRIGHAM YOUNG’S BIRTHDAY.

	The anniversary of President Young’s
birthday was celebrated under the auspices
of the Young Family Association at the
famous Lion House in this city, Tuesday,
June 1. The grand old parlor and hall
were profusely decorated with stars and
stripes, and with beautiful flowers, and
portraits large and small of Brigham Young
were hung in conspicuous places and draped
with national colors and with small flags in
the most picturesque fashion; there was
also here and there a bust of President
Young, and these additional features gave
character to the rooms and to the gathering.
The party was composed almost exclusive-
ly of the wives and descendants of Presi-
dent Young himself, with a few of his
brothers wives and their children, and
some particular friends.
	There was a little delay in opening the
exercises which had been arranged by a
committee of the sons and daughters, as
President Wilford Woodruff was expected,
but when word came that he did not feel
quite able to attend, the program opened
with Captain Willard Young, Master of
Ceremonies, as Apostle Brigham Young,
the eldest son (who has recently been very
ill) was scarcely strong enough to pre-
side. The assembly joined in singing,
“We thank Thee O, God for a Prophet,”
and an eloquent prayer was offered by
Bishop H. B. Clawson. President Lorenzo
Snow made the opening address which con-
tained an earnest appeal to all present, but
especially to the family of President Young
to officiate in the ordinances for the dead in
the house of the Lord, to live lives of devo-
tion to the work for which he whom they
met to honor and reverence today had lived
and had died, leaving the inheritance of
this work to be done by his posterity.
	Apostle Brigham Young made a feeling
address which contained many old-time rem-
iniscences, and was full of affectionate
interest for all.
	Song “O, My Father,” by R. C. Easton
in his inimitable rendering, Spencer Clawson
Jun. playing the accompaniment; piano
solo, Spencer Clawson; song, Lulu Moore;
“Many happy returns of the day;” read-
ing (Humorous) Master Frank Fenton
Young; song “Mona,” by R. C. Easton,
a most exquisite melody; piano duet,
Emmie and Lyle Yeung; verbal report of
the Young Family Association, Susa Y.
Gates; song Lula Moore, “Hearts and
Homes;” recitation Miss Frankie Young,
written by Mrs. R. E. Monch, title, Brigham
Young; address, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young;
Negro song in dialect with mandolin, Alice
Clawson—followed by an encore; song,
“Tit for Tat,” Nellie Brown; Lulu Gates
piano solo and song “The Garden of
Sleep,” also a Kanaka song; recitation,
Zebulon W. Jacobs, words by Elder C. W.
Penrose on the death of Brigham Young.
After the program delicious refreshments
were served and conversation of a reminis-
cent character generally was indulged in.
One particular feature of the day was the
singing of the old song “Twenty Years
Ago,” by about twenty of the daughters
and grand-daughters of the President.
This was considered appropriate on account
of its having been the twentieth anniver-
sary since the day was celebrated last by
the President himself, June 1, 1877.
	There is no place in Salt Lake City per-
haps of a more historic character than the

[Column 2]
Lion House, where the greater part of the
family of President Young lived so many
years, where so many social events have
been celebrated, and where hundreds of
strangers have been entertained by this re-
markable man and by members of his fam-
ily, notably Sister Eliza R. Snow, the poet
and author, and where both President
Young and Sister Eliza died and several
other members of the family. It was in
this house many of Sister Eliza’s poems
were written, and also there the girls and
boys in their youth and childhood had
many parties and private theatricals.
	In that house President Young organized
the Young girls of his own family into an
Association for mutual improvement and
spiritual elevation and advancement in
knowledge and wisdom, and that they
might obtain a more correct understanding
of the principles of life and salvation and a
testimony of the truth of the Gospel. This
association has grown and flourished until
now it numbers many thousands.
WRITTEN FOR THE ANNIVERSARY OF PRESI-
DENT BRIGHAM YOUNG’S BIRTHDAY
JUNE 1, 1897.
	IT is right and proper that children
should honor their parents, and what is
more fitting than to meet together on their
parents natal day, especially after their
death, and talk over the reminiscences of
their childhood and rehearse all the good
and pleasant things they have experienced,
and store their minds with memories rich
and precious to hand down to coming gen-
erations.
	The old Lion House is a monument of
historical reminiscences, some pleasant and
some of a sorrowful nature.
	The childhood days of most of the sons
and daughters of President Young were
spent in the Lion House; some were born
there and some died there; some lost their
mothers, some their children. Life is
made up of a variety of circumstances,
some bringing happiness, others sadness.
Perfect happiness is not to be looked for in
mortal life. None can go through this
imperfect state of existence without making
more or less mistakes, and we ought to
overlook a great deal, which we all certainly
can do, when we consider our own weak
and imperfect natures. If children have
differences they are soon forgotten and
naught but the happy times remembered.
Ties have been formed that will never be
broken. Children grow up, get married
and are in a measure separated, but there
is in each heart a bond of love that draws
them together. A love that has grown
with their lives and will continue to grow
stronger and stronger while time shall
last, and in the eternal worlds it will grow
no less. I do not think another family as
large as President Young’s could be found,
where there was less trouble and difficulty
than among those that dwelt in the Lion
House.
	It is surprising how well plural families
got along together. I am reminded of a
little circumstance that took place soon
after I moved to the Head House (now
owned by my daughter, Mrs. Emily Claw-
son.) It was when Brother Piper had
charge of President Young’s temporal
affairs. He called to see me one day and
said Sister Clara D. Young had requested
him to look after me and see that I did not
lack the comforts of life. He expressed
some surprise that one wife should take


such an interest in another wife in the
same family. Well take them all together,
President Young had about as good a fam-
ily as could be found; and as far as I know
the best of feelings exists among them at
the present time. We have had our ups
and downs. Our trials have been for good,
and the longer we live, and the older we
grow, we can see that we have no cause to
feel sorrowful, but every reason to thank
the Lord for His mercies and kind care
that has been over us; and that He has
deigned to guide us in the right way. Our
paths may not always have been strewn
with thornless roses, but we have been the
recipients of many favors. And as for my-
self, I feel more and more thankful that I
took the course that God marked out for
me, although to look ahead at the time
things looked very dark. And I know that
my children will honor and bless my name
in the far future. I think they realize now
to a certain extent the sacredness of my
marriage with the Prophet Joseph, but
perhaps not as perfectly as they will here-
after. I feel glad that I have been asso-
ciated with the family of President Young.
We have formed ties that will last through
the eternities.
	The last scenes that have been associated
with the old familiar house were of a very
sad and sorrowful nature. The most try-
ing scene of all was when President Young,
the father, the husband and our protector
passed from this world away to a better
land. His family were left like sheep with-
out a shepherd.—Well of what followed I
need not speak, we need no reminder.
Some things are better forgotten if possible.
Times are now changing and we can see
the hand of the Lord in all things.
	May the family continue to be united,
and those who have wandered return and
be reclaimed, is the heartfelt desire of,
