Bending the Twig Elsie C. Carroll
======================================================================

Bending the Twig Elsie C. Carroll At the click of the gate Janet Culmer looked up. The snowy dish-towel she was hemming dropped into her lap and she removed her thimble and slipped it into the pocket of her sewing apron. It was Mandy Boyd coming up the walk, and something in her strong, resolute strides and the set of her thin lips reminded Mrs. Culmer of that morning nineteen years ago when Mandy had come to tell her about John. No one else in the village had had the courage to bring the news to the girl-wife that she was a widow. Not that Mandy Boyd was a gossip who reveled in carrying news about the town. Far from it. However, she was a woman who never shirked a duty. For that reason she had come to be not only much respected in Norville, but also at times at least a little dreaded. It was she who had been sent to inform the Goldstein family that the Relief Society could no longer contribute money to feed and clothe the children so long as the head of the family persisted in exchanging their contributions for beer. It was she who had been sent to warn parsimonious old Judge Hinmarsh that his name would be published as a slacker unless he came through with some Liberty Bonds. In short, such unpleasant tasks had been thrust upon Mandy for so many years that gradually she had come to assume their responsibilities as a matter of course, and when she observed anything which in her mind needed adjusting, whether it was an affair of public interest or of a private one she took it upon herself to see that it was righted. "Good afternoon, Mandy. Come in." Janet held the screen door open for her guest with one hand, while with the other she waved the dish-towel at imaginary flies. At the same time she was endeavoring to quell the unpleasant foreboding Mandy's appearance had given her. "Good afternoon, Janet." There was no relaxation of Mandy's set jaws. She took the stiff, upholstered chair Janet set out for her and removed her sun-bonnet. Mrs. Culmer resumed her seat near the window and picked up her sewing again. "It's a beautiful day, isn't it?" she ventured, hoping to establish the relations of an informal call. Mandy made no reply. Instead she sat studying Janet's face with a critical detachnient so extremely characteristic when.she had an unpleasant subject to broach, that Janet felt fairly cold. BENDING THE TWIG. 149 "It's about your Jack, I came," Mandy spoke abruptly. She never beat about the bush. "No, don't be frightened. It ain't bad news. Anyhow not the kind you're thinking of. I just came to see if you knew he's the talk of the town the way he's running about with that Turley girl?" Janet breathed easier but the startled, anxious look remained in her face. "That Turley girl  and Jack? I don't understand." "I knew you didn't. That's what I told them over to Mariar Allen's quilting. I said, 'I'm sure Janet doesn't know a thing about it,' and that it wasn't right you shouldn't when everybody else is talking about it. So I came right over to tell you. Yes Jack and Bernice Turley's the talk of the town. It isn't that there's anything wrong with the girl as far as I can see. To my mind she'.s a sweet, pretty little thing in spite of her mother's carelessness and if I had a son I'd a whole lot sooner he'd marry a girl like Bernice Turley than one of these conventionalized butterflies some mothers pick out for their boys. But that ain't saying that you would. We all know what good housekeeping and proper training mean to you. That it's the religion of your life. And we all know how your every thought is centered in Jack and how you've brought him up on standards exactly opposite to the slipshod ways of Molly Turley. Jack's been raised on order and system of the strictest type, while the only system Molly Turley ever used was letting her children grow up just as they happened to. To my mind there's disadvantages to both ways, but the women over to Mariar's.seemed to think that the biggest calamity that could happen to you would be to have Jack take up with that girl so, as I said, I just ran over to tell you. There's nothing like nipping such a thing in the bud you know." "But Jack hasn't taken Bernice Turley anywhere." Jariet persisted gropingly. "You know he's keeping company with Alice Warner over in Melford. Why, he and Alice have been sweethearts ever since they were children. Clara Warner and I used to be chums you know." Mandy chuckled dryly. "Well, maybe he's keeping company with Alice but he's spending most of his time with Bernice. She walks to the office with him every morning on her way to her uncle's farm. She pretends to go out to help her Aunt Lucy every day. At noon he goes out and eats his lunch with her in that pine grove this side of John's and Lucy's. Sarah Watkins says her George passes them on his way home from the field. And every afternoon he goes out and walks home with her and spends an hour or so playing tennis or volley ball with her and the rest of the Turley children in their back yard. It's been going on nearly ever 150 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. since Jack got back from school. That's about three weeks ain't it?"The new.s had made Janet speechless with surprise. Mandy got to her feet. Adjusting her bonnet she walked to the door. 'T just thought I'd let you know," she repeated. "Not that I have anything against the Turley girl, remember. It's just that two twigs bent in such opposite directions might not ever be able to grow in the same direction  and I thought you ought to know." "Thank you. Mandy," Janet managed to say as the,screen closed and her visitor walked back down the path. Half way to the gate Mandy stopped. Janet was still standing in the door. "There is such a thing as bending a twig too far," Mandy said Thus tersely, relieved" so she far walked it either out breaks or sidewalk. onto the flips back the other way." For a long time Janet sat gazing out of the window. Her sewing lay unnoticed in her lap, and she toyed with her. thimble absently. She looked back over the years of her boy's life. She remembered how she had gathered his warm little body into her arms that morning nineteen years ago when she had realized she must be both father and mother to him. She had registered a vow that his training should be the one great object of her life. She had the moulding of a man in her hands and no pains should be spared in the moulding. Later she had formulated some rigid standards to guide her, fearing she mig-ht naturally be too lenient, and had conscientiously striven toward them. One of the rules had been suggested by Jack's father a few days before his death. In speaking of a certain young man of their acquaintance who had conspicuously failed in life, he had remarked: "That boy's failure is due to the slip-shod way in which he has been brought up. He has never learned the importance of little things. It is right habits in little things that make for success in the big things. We must remember that in training our boy, Jennie." Those words had stood out as a guiding star before her during all the years of Jack's childhood and adolescence. It had often been hard to enforce the rules she deemed necessary to gain her end, but she had never faltered. And now Jack had rewarded her! Always he had been pointed out as a model by the parents of his companions. He had finished his education with credit, and was now entering the business world with a bright future before him. Was the failure to come after all this? She had never dreamed of his taking up with a girl so unlike himself as Bernice Turley. The mere thought made her BENDING THE TWIG. 151 wince. To her, order and regularity were supreme doctrines. Molly Turley's creed was exactly opposite. Accordingly, She believed in absolute freedom and spontaneity. Accordingly, to the the disgust of Norville's fastidious housewives, the Turley children had not been brought up at all, they had simply grown up as they chose. The more Janet thought over Mandy's news the more serious it loomed up before her. Yes, as Mandy had suggested, this undesirable association must be nipped in the bud. But how was it to be done? Janet had not been a boy's mother for twenty-one years without discovering that the nipping process requires all the tact and skill a mother has power to summon. She must think out what would be best to do. Presently she decided to take a walk. Perhaps she could think better out of doors. Besides it would soon be time for Jack's coming. She did not want to see him until she had decided upon some mode of action. She selected the path along the foothills instead of the public road for her walk. After a half hour she turned from the path and walked a short distance up the sidehill east of the village. The valley lay peacefully before her, and all about the foliage showed the first gay tints of early fall. She sat down on a large bowlder and closed her eyes, trying to let the silence of the surroundings calm the anxious tumult in her heart. Presently she was aroused by the sound of voices. She started up then sank back upon the rock. One of the voices was Jack's; the other belonged to Bernice Turley. The two had come from the opposite direction and had seaterl themselves on a fallen log near the path. A clump of willows hid them from the mother's view, but their words came distinctly to her ears. 'Tt must be jolly to. live like you folks do," Jack was saying when Janet first heard them. "Your house is the 'comfiest' place I was ever in. I like to see your Dad with his feet upon the radiator and Ned's cap down in the corner back of the sofa just where it happened to light, and your books and magazines and music strung around like they had all been used. You don't seem to be all tied down by petty little rules, such as 'a place for everything and everything in its place' and you are not pinched into machines by the habit of doing the same thing at the same time every day. Now, I wouldn't say a thing against my mother; she's the best in the world, but oh you know she'd never get over it if I'd do some of the jolly things your brother Ned does. You see, father died when I was a little chap, and, well, she doesn't know what really counts in a boy's life." Part of the,sting with which those words pierced Janet Culmer's heart was soothed by Bernice Turley's reply. 152 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Oh, you don't know how I've always admired your mother! I'd give anything in the world if Mama kept house like she does. They say she has certain days for doing every bit of work. I'd Icve to live like that. We never know what we are going to do tomorrow and everything is so  so messy and uncertain that sometime I feel that I can't endure it." Mrs. Culmer slipped away unseen. As she walked homeward slowly, she was wondering with a growing conviction if it were possible that she had made a mistake  as big a mistake, perhaps as Molly Turley. What was it Mandy had said about bending a twig so far it would either break or flip back the other way? She would go and talk it over with Mandy. The