ULYSSES SIMPSON GRANT.

	General U. S. Grant, a great military hero of
the late civil war, and ex-President of the United
States died at Mount Mac.Gregor, on the morning
of the 23rd of July last. His death had been an-
ticipated for some time, as his sufferings had been
very severe and of such a nature that human skill
could only afford temporary relief. The General
died surrounded by his loved ones, and in the full
enjoyment of the greatness he had himself
achieved. He had the unusual honor of being
twice elected to the highest position in the gift of
the people of this nation. But it was really his
military career that gave him the national popu-
larity, and which caused his election to the office
of chief Executive of the United States. He
distinguished himself notably as a leader and a
true and skillful General in several of the most
important engagements during the war of the re-
bellion. His name will be handed down to pos-
terity as one of the bravest and wisest who have
fought for their country in its time of need. His-
tory will do him justice, for he appears to have
been a man fully appreciated during his lifetime,
which is seldom the case even with those who
have been the greatest benefactors to their con-
temporaries and to posterity. 
	The book, upon which the grand old General
spent his last working hours, will, when completed,
be held as a treasure by the world, and future
generations will read it with interest, as well as
those who knew him in life. His memory will
thus be preserved fresh and green by his own
hands and brain. There is no doubt that he will
have a superb and costly monument erected in
his remembrance, for already it is practically
talked about. In foreign lands, as well as in our
own, he has received most marked honors and at-
tentions from crowned heads and military chief-
tains, as well as the mases of the people. The
brave General died with an honorable record,and
in full possession of the mental powers and attri-
butes that had won the distinction that became
him so well, to the last hours of his life.
	General Grant was born at Point Pleasant,
Ohio, April 17, 1822. He was descended from
Scotch ancestry, and possessed many enduring
qualities, which are inherent in the Scotch race. He
received his military education at West Point, and
although the training he obtained there would
serve him well in the places he had afterwards to


fill, yet thorough technical discipline and educa-
tion alone could never have elevated him to the
exalted rank he occupied in military and civil life
without indomitable energy and perseverance, as
well as superior wisdom and judgment, and in fact
what every successful leader must possess, in a 
greater or less degree—forethought and intui-
tion.
	Elaborate preparations are being made for the
burial of this national military hero, and several
different public places have been named as suitable
burial place for the remains of so great a man, but
it is now expected that he will be buried at River-
side Park, New York, and already there is talk of
changing its name to Grant Park. 
	Memorial services in his honor will be held in
all parts of the United States, and in Westminster
Abbey in England. In Salt Lake City, Liberty
Park was selected by the committee appointed
for the purpose, as being the most desireable place
for the memorial services in honor of General
Grant.


