THE FADED WRAPPER.

	"Are you sorry that father has gone away to
stay over night, Alice?" said one of Mrs.
Montgomery's children to his sister. "It rains
so that no one will call; and now mother will
wear that faded wrapper all day. I heard her
tell Barbara she should have a good long day
for sewing. She doesn't think it worth while
to set even the dining room table just for us:"
	"Don't you wish she would spill ink on that
dress, Philip?" was the answer—"then she
wouldn't wear it any more."
	'No indeed, I don't want it any worse, for
she would wear it just the same rainy days and
when papa is away."
	Now mamma, in the next room, heard this
discussion of the children, and arose to take a
survey of herself in the looking-glass. It was
not a very pleasing picture that the polished
surface gave back to her view.
	"Now Harry Warren's mother," said Philip,
"is always dressed nicely, any time of the
day."
	She wears such pretty bows on her hair and
neck." said Alice. "But she isn't half so
pleasant as our mother," she added loyally, "if
she does look prettier."
	The mother's eyes glistened as she looked
down on the old wrapper.
	"To be compared to Aunt Warren," she
thought, "and by my own children, too. Who
would have thought they were such sharp little
things? They notice every trifle."
	Mrs. Montgomery's spirit was quite stirred.
She would not allow such a rival, she said to
herself, if she could eclipse her. "You shall
be disapointed about the old wrapper, for
once, Mr. Philip," she added smiling; so she
took a soft white dress, just the thing to en-
liven a dull day. Then she puffed her hair in
her prettiest style, and proceeded to dress her-
self with unusual care. The delicate lace col-

[Column 2]

lar was adorned with a bow of palest pink,
and her hair was tied back with a ribbon to
match.
	It is wonderful how these simple additions
to the toilet changed her whole appearance. A
little taste does much for a woman's toilet, and
yet how small, often, is the cost. A simple
knot of violet or crimson velvet will make a
dull dress look bright and even elegant. As
a great painter said, "trifles make perfection,
but perfection is no trifle."
	Mrs. Montgomery's face wore a brighter look
than usual that day, as she entered the nurs-
ery. Her dress had actually raised her spirits;
but she was hardly prepared for the burst of
admiration that greeted her. It is not often
that compliments are sincere and heart-felt
as were those of her little ones that day. But
her children's tones quickly changed to one of
anxiety. "Are you going away anywhere,
mamma?" they asked directly.
	"No, dears, I am going to sew on the ma-
chine all day; so we can have a nice time to-
gether."
	Little Alice hung over her chair a mintue,
admiringly, and fingered her buttons, as she
said, with a smile of deep content in her eye.
	"You look nice, mamma."
	Mrs. Montgomery smiled, as she threaded
the needle of the machine, while Philip added
proudly:
	"She looks nicer than Harry's mother, even
when she has her silk dress on."
	That was reward enough: she had eclipsed her
rival.
	"I'll remember this day's lesson," said the
mother, in her own heart, and she did remem-
ber it.
	The rainy day dress was doomed, and they
helped to rip it up with sincere pleasure. It
made excellent linings for a new one, and it
often preached its old sermon over, as it hung
wrong side out in the closet.
	Mothers, when you allow yourselves sloven-
ly ways among the little ones, in the seclusion
of the nursery, remember there's a child there
"a takin' notes." Those notes will be read
even when your head lies low. Of all the
bright pictures that hang on memory's wall,
there is none to me so fair as a sweet loving
mother, whose appearance was always neat and
tasteful, even in working dress. Children may
love an untidy mother, after a fashion but
they can never respect her. She cannot keep
the hold on them in after years that one of
the opposite habits possesses. Besides, if you are
untidy yourself, they will probably grow up
to imitate you. Don't neglect the details of
dress, that add so much to appearance, be-
cause there will be "no one about but the
children."— Wood's Magazine.


“Omaha, Nebraska, has followed the ex-
ample of Wyoming Territory, and sets the
country an honest example, by ordering that
the pay of women teachers shall hereafter be
the same as that paid to men of the same
grade in the schools.”
	The Manchester Woman's Suffrage Journal
says, “Now that the Franchise Act is passed,
and the Seats Bill has also received the Royal
Assent, those members whose primary object
has been to secure this large measure of repre-
sentation for men, may be urged to continue
their efforts in favor of the enfranchisement of
women.”
	The Woman’s Franchise Bill has been
moved in the House of Lords more than
once. The last occasion was June 23rd, when
Lord Denman brought it forward; by many
this was looked upon as an inopportune time,
as it was just as the Peers were about to ad-
journ. It still remains, however, on the order
book of the House of Lords among the Bills
awaiting second reading.


