			PIONEER DAY.

	The 24th of July, “Pioneer day,” as it is desig-
nated by the Latter-day Saints, passed without the
least demonstration in Salt Lake City or any of
the adjoining towns. In some remote places where
the news of General Grant’s death did not reach
them in time, the exercises and amusements
planned for the day were carried out in the usual
style. In this city a Sunday School Jubilee had
been some time in preparation, and the children
anticipated a gala day, but there was no hesitation
on the part of the committee, and no objection
whatever made by the children when the sad
news reached here of General Grant's demise
with one accord it was immediately decided to
postpone the Jubilee indefinitely, and drafted the
following resolution, which was unanimously
adopted:
 	“Whereas, The announcement of the death of
General Grant has stricken every heart with grief,
causing a realization of the great loss sustained
by all, and
	 Whereas, The illustrious dead, when visiting 
Utah a few years ago, gazed with wonder and ad-
miration on the thousands of Sunday School
children who testified of their love and esteem for
him and manifested their wish to honor the presi-
dential head of a great nation by lining the streets
along which he drove, and greeting him as only
innocence can greet when greatness recognizes
and smiles upon purity; be it therefore
	Resolved, That the Sunday School Jubilee con-
templated for the 24th of July be indefinitely
postponed..”
		By Order of the Committee.

	No other public demonstration of any kind was
anticipated, though threats had been made by those
disposed to misconstrue every act and word of the
Mormon people of what would be undertaken on
that day, in case there was any indication on the
part of our people to celebrate. But their
mouths were closed and their wicked desires and
plans thwarted and overthrown when a national
sorrow fell upon all. The people who felt like
mourning before had now the opportunity to give
such public expression to their feelings as accord-
ed well with the sentiments expressed by raising
the flags at half-mast on the 4th of July. Governor
Murray, who had been strong in his denunciation
of half-masting on the Fourth, issued an official
proclamation, recommending  “that flags draped
in mourning be placed on all public buildings, and 
as far as practicable, on business houses, and on
the houses of the people,” etc., thus changing the
entire order of the day, as expected by those who
see so plainly the mote in the eye of another, but
have no idea or conception of the beam in their 
own.
	These people who see so much treason in the
doings of the Mormons, and are so anxious to
have them “wiped out,” had been calling upon the
military to be on hand on the 24th, in case they
could somehow or other provoke the Mormons

[Column 2]
into resenting any of their innumerable insults.
But they were foiled in their rich expectations of
creating a disturbance, in which they fondly hoped 
to figure largely as patriots and so on, and the fire
of their enthusiasm was considerably cooled down
when the proclamation of the Mayor and City
Council was issued, ordering all the saloons and
places where liquor could be obtained, to be closed
on that day.
	The day passed off quietly, and in the enjoy-
ment of home and the society of friends, one
could give vent to the peculiar feelings and emo-
tions that must necessarily well up in the hearts
of those who are under the ban of oppression now
brought to bear upon the Latterday Saints, even
upon those who have helped to pioneer the desert--
a day the people were wont to celebrate with festivi-
ties and rejoicings. But God moves in a mysteri-
ous way, and he knows how to temper the wind
to the shorn lamb, and He has established His
kingdom and given power to His Priesthood upon
the earth, and evil machinations of wicked men
cannot destroy that power and influence, nor hin-
der the growth of the work of God in these last
days, though they may harass and annoy the
Saints, and cause sorrow and grievous affliction 
to come upon them. The Saints who are in the
line of their duty will come off triumphant, and
whether in life or in death will have reason to re-
joice and acnowledge His hand in all things.


