	A TRIBUTE TO SISTER H. A. BEEBEE.

  Sister Hester A. Beebee, who died not long since at
Provo, was an untiring worker in the cause of silk culture.
She was President of the Utah Silk Association, and had
been, for some time, and even previous to that time, a very
efficient help to Sister M. I. Smoot, the former President.
She was a very intelligent and able worker in many other
directions, and her loss will be deeply felt by the sisters in
that county.
  Sister Lucy W. Kimball has given a few items in refer-
ence to Sister Beebee's labors in this direction, which we
think are proper to publish, as they show the special inter-
est and desire she had to carry out the counsel given in
the establishment of silk culture and manufacture.
  "I assisted Sister Beebee in getting the reeling in opera-
tion, prior to leaving for California, which was in Novem-
ber, 1882. There were then several young ladies taking
lessons in reeling. She writes in the following May that
silk reeling was again in operation, A young lady from
Toquerville was learning to reel, with a view of taking a
class on her return home, and that she was very anxious to
get all the old cocoons reeled up during the summer.
 July 22nd she wrote, "We have decided to emigrate a
silk weaver from England," and stated that the reels ordered
from Philadelphia had already arrived. 'Mrs. Lucy B.
Young has for the last week been taking lessons at my
house, and will send for a reel for St. George.'
  'My interest in the silk industry is increasing, and I begin
to think we may yet realize all our fondest hopes in the
manufacture of silk. I so often wish you were here to as-
sist and counsel me. My anxiety is so great I can scarcely
wait for you to name the date of your return. I have to-
day written to Philadelphia, Iowa, London, England and
to you in California in the interest of the silk. Do send
me all items of interest on this subject.'
  'I have just received a rare specimen of reeled silk from
the Woman's Silk Association.'
  Sister Daniels also writes me while in California: 'I can-
not close without giving you some idea of Sister Beebee's
home. It is completely filled with looms, wheels, reels,
runners, bobbins, and added to these the weaver and her
daughter. In her zeal she has almost turned herself and
family out of the house and home.'
  They have succeeded, however, in making some very
fine handkerchiefs, also very fair dress goods. She has
done all the coloring with her own hands, and is only
waiting your return to make it a complete success.' "


