		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

  Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call from
our midst our beloved sister,
  Resolved, That we, her associates and co-workers of
the 8th Ward Relief Society, do deeply mourn her loss,
that we cherish her memory and emulate her many virtues,
for we can truly say she manifested that true charity which
flows from a sense of duty and hope in God.
  Resolved, That we sympathize with the bereaved hus-
band and family in the loss of a loving wife and mother,
and we pray that God will inspire her children to walk in
her footsteps.
  Resolved, That we present a copy of these resolutions
to the bereaved family, also that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT for publication, and that they be placed upon the
ward record.
						E. B. FLETCHER, President,
						CATHERINE PALMER
						JANE COWAN, Counselors.
  It is with feelings of deep sorrow and regret that we
chronicle the death of our beloved sister, Hester Ann
Beebee, who passed peacefully to her rest on the 25th of
June, at her residence in the Second Ward, Provo, sur-
rounded by many of her relatives and friends.
  Sister Beebee was the widow of George Beebee, and the
seventh child of Dr. David W. and Martha Rogers. Was
born in Dunkirk; Chatuaque County, New York, March
23rd, 1825; was baptized in 1841, in  Mississippi River
at Montrose, Iowa, opposite the City of Nauvoo. Was
well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
passed through all the persecutions of the Saints at that
place.
  After their exodus from Nauvoo, Sister Beebee settled
with her family in Iowa, but her heart and sympathies were
with the people in all their wanderings in the wilderness,
with a desire to be with them, but circumstances prevented
her wishes being gratified till the year 1876, when, with her
family, she gathered with the Saints and settled in Provo.
  She was the mother of eleven children, six of whom are
living to mourn her loss. Sister Beebee was a great ad-
mirer of what was most lovely in nature; was passionately
fond of flowers, and spent much of her time in laboring to
beautify her home, which she made a bower of beauty and
loveliness. She often contributed her floral offerings to dec-
orate the dead, and adorned the strands of our tabernacle
on Sunday and other occasions.
  She held the dual offices of Treasurer to the Utah Stake
Relief Society since its organization, in the year 1878, till
her demise. Was appointed Stake President of the Silk
Association in 1881. Ever since she held that office she
seemed never weary in trying to make a success of that en-
terprise; was a person endowed with much executive ability,
as well as great powers of endurance, combined with
moral courage and perseverance, and withal a most devoted
Latter-day Saint.

