THE BEGINNING AND THE END.

Dark clouds have gather'd aft and fore—
The lightnings flash, the thunders roar—
The fierce blasts sweeping here and there,
The stately forest trees uptear,
While raging elements at war,
The lovely face of nature mar.

"Offences must needs come"—but lo!
God has pronounced a telling woe
"On them by whom they come"—the evil
Who choose and love to serve the devil.

But there remains a glorious rest
For those by wickedness oppress'd—
For all the faithful Saints of God,
Who own His hand and kiss the rod;
All who in faithfulness abide,
With texture and with heart-strings tried;
E'en such as now in sorrow mourn
Their sires and husbands ruthless borne,
Unstain'd with guilt or crime, to dwell
Within a prison's loathsome cell.

Ye Saints of God, fear not—stand fast,
Nor cringe nor cower before the blast;
And Oh, be wise, and understand
The treach'rous kiss and velvet hand,
Which proffer life and liberty
At cost of your integrity.
You'd better risk the lion's den,
Or the thrice-heated furnace; then
On Israel's God you can depend,
Be true, and God will be your friend,
And you far better sacrifice
Your mortal life, than jeopordize
Your ALL—yes, ALL will be at stake,
If you your sacred covenants break;
And mark! this demon-like ordeal,
God will o'errule for Zion's weal.

Prosperity has never served
To sift out those who heedless swerved
From duty—those whose lives were spent
In carving their aggrandizement,
Or, pampering a morbid taste,
Let time and talents go to waste;
The hypocrite, with cordial kiss,
More dang'rous than the serpent's hiss—
The fawning sycophant, whose smile
Is fashion's trade mark, to beguile,
And for this purpose, God will use
Those whom the rights of man abuse.

	The reckless crusade will not cease,
Nor will the righteous dwell in peace,
Till all the hypocrites, with fear,
Dismay and trembling disappear;—
Till lying hordes, in silent gloom,
With traitors, meet their horrid doom—
Till Freedom, Truth and Justice reign.
And equal rights for all sustain;—
Till all true Saints, as one, unite
To serve the Lord with mind and might.
Then will the powers of Heav'n come down
And Zion's courts with glory crown.
		E. R. SNOW SMITH.
Logan City, 24th July.


[Column 1]

