LADIES PRIMROES LEGUE. 

	June 9th an inaugural meeting of the Grand
Council of the Ladies' Branch of the Primrose
League was held in the house of the Marquis
of Salisbury, 20 Arlington Street, London,
and was numerously attended by ladies of rank
and title. This branch of the Primrose League
is intended to be thoroughly representative.
Lord John Manners, M. P., occupied the posi-
tion of Chairman, and made some general ex-
planations as to the circumstances which had
given rise to the organized efforts that were
being made, and stated that 2,000,000 new
electors, for the most part necessarily ignorant
and impulsive, had, for the first time, been given
the franchise, that the old established ma-
chinery of conducting elections had been swept
away, and an entirely new element of activity 
in this direction was opened out.
	Lord G. Hamilton, M. P., in his remarks
said these ladies were not asked to take part
in the rough and tumble of the contest, nor to
become election agents, but to use their influ-
ence in the rural parts of the country in the
towns and villages. Lord Hamilton moved
"that the meeting, having heard the statement
of the object of the Primrose League, pledges
itself to promote those objects by every means
in its power." He then said, "The object of
this meeting and of those who were advocating
the Primrose League, was to secure, as far as
possible, the co-operation of the ladies of Eng-
land in the task of promoting those principles
which alone could secure the greatness and
prosperity of the empire."
	Sir Stafford Northcote M. P., rose to second
the resolution. Mr. A. J. Balfour, M. P., sup-
ported the resolution and it was unanimously
carred. Sir Henry Drummond Wolff, M. P.,
read the report of the Ladies' Grand Council,
which stated that it was but three months
since the idea first originated of forming this
committee, yet already 300 ladies were enrolled
as members, and 20 Habitations (as they are
called) had been formed. These are presided
over by ladies of title and influence.
	Sir Algernon Borthwick,in his remarks, said
this was the first instance in history where the
ladies of England had gathered together in
such extraordinary numbers to work for po-
litical purposes. Not only would they instruct
the youth of England—and Lord Beaconsfield
had told us "that the youth of a nation are the
trustees of posterity"—but they would assume
their natural and true position as upholders of
the throne, and guardians of the welfare of
the realm. The saying of Lord Beaconsfield,
repeated by Sir Algernon Borthwick, con-
tains so much meaning that it ought never
to be forgotten.


"Emma F. Carey has been reappointed 
prison commissioner of Massachusets by Gov.
Robinson."
	The Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishop
of London, Cardinal Manning, of the Romish
Church, and Samuel Mosley, liberal member
of Parliament, have consented to serve on the
committee to examine privately the evidence
on which the Pall-Mall bases its charges and 
to report conclusions to the public.


