ABOUT WOMEN.

	An old Pennsylvania Dutchman, now
gathered to his forefathers, invariably summed
up his opinion of womankind in season and
out of season in these three words: "Women
are fools."
	In this he differs somewhat from one of
Dickens' heroes, who is chivalrously made to
say: "Rum creeturs is wimmin"	*	*
	1. Isabella of Spain comprehended and
sympathized with the plans of Columbus, and
aided him to accomplish his discoveries; there-
fore, "Women are fools. They cannot grasp
great theories."
	2. Caroline Herschel performed drudgeries
of calculation to help her brother, and also
made independent discoveries; hence. "Women
are fools. They cannot have truly scientific
bias."
	3. Lucretia Mott preached the Gospel of
"Liberty of the individual"—[-]odily, mental,
spiritual—to the last hour of h[--] g[-]andly
courageous life; ergo: "Wom[-]n [-]re [-]ools. They
are bound by priestcraft and superstition."
	4. Fanny Mendelssohn composed many of
the works attirbuted to her brother Felix; so:
"Women are fools. They cannot grasp great
music principles." [N. B.—I think Fanny
was a fool in this case not to take all the credit
that belonged to her.]
	5. Mrs. Stowe did more by her pen than any
ten men by their speeches to abolish African
slavery in this country, which proves that
"Women are fools. They are not capable of
judgment on great questions."
	6. Charlotte Bronte wrote an immortal novel
while toiling in the gloomy kitchen at Haworth;
hence, "Women are fools. They can only
think of but one thing at a time."
	7. Mrs. Roebling, during her husband's illness,
carried on stupendous calculations without
which the Brooklyn bridge could not have been
built. Evidently "Women are fools. They
have no head for the higher mathematics. Q.
E. D."
	8. Anna E. Carroll planned a vast campaign
during the civil war, which threw victories in-
to the hands of our Northern generals and
virtually saved the Union; hence, "Women are
fools. They have no military genius."
	9. Mary A. Livermore, in the same way,
did priceless work at the head of the Sanitary
Commission, thus showing that "Women are
fools. They have no executive talent."
	10. Mrs. Frank Leslie paid off a $50,000
debt in less than six months after assuming
control of the great publishing business left
by her husband, which makes it plain that
"Women are fools. They have no financial
ability."
	11. The Elder Mrs. Button, wife of the
senior partner of the Germantown Woolen


Mills, invented an improvement to a machine
after her husband and others had given up in 
despair, showing conclusively that "Women
are fools. They have no mechanical turn."
	12. According to Wm. Shakespeare—though 
this may be a myth—a lady named Portia, in
a "learned doctor's" wig and gown, once con-
founded the elders and solved a knotty legal
problem with which the Venetian masculine
wits had vainly grappled; therefore, "Women
are fools. They are incapable of viewing any 
case in its legal aspects."--Ex.


