DEAR MORMON SISTERS:

  I read almost daily in the papers something
concerning your people, and always with deep
interest, and I believe I must say it, great sym-
pathy for you.  I cannot believe you a bad peo-
ple, and, seeing the constant, daily unpunished
violation of law around us here, my heart is
filled with sorrow and my soul with bitterness
by the great show of righteousness in prosecut-
ing the Mormons.
	The Catholics hold "church above state" as high
ly as the Mormons are said to, and not only so,
they have no morals--on every corner around
us is a saloon, the proprietor and family go to
the Catholic Church strictly every Sunday
morning to "early mass."  Then, notwithstand-
ing 'tis against state and corporation law, they
sell liquor all the rest of the day. Now and
then (just after an election, when the new
officers are very zealous) the evil is partly
checked, but they soon begin to venture out
further and further, and just before an election,
the saloon keeper does as he pleases--their vote
is desirable.  The Catholic vote counts, and
other church members, if interested in politics,
especially if running for office, cultivate them.
There are good persons in the Catholic Church,
but the history of the church is bad--ten--a
thousand times worse than the Mormon record,
and the Catholic Church, though the individual
members are changed, is the same as the
Catholic Church of old.  Queen Elizabeth will
behead the Catholic Queen Mary, if their in-
terests conflict.
  Your crime, in the eyes of most of your
enemies, is not your belief in polygamy, but is
your voting the Democratic ticket. The Republi-
cans hold up your polygamy because they
know that the Democrats dare not come out
boldly, and stand by you without--to use a


common expression—giving themselves away
on the Polygamous question, and it is a delicate
question, for every man values his domestic
peace and harmony, and a show of virtue
covers a multitude of shortcomings. I venture
a wager, that, did all men dare do so, eight
out of ten would vote for polygamy, and four
out of eight already practice it in secrecy.
	This arresting and throwing into prison men
who are good, moral citizens, except that they
have more than one wife, makes me think of
hogs rooting each other out of the trough, and
squealing while they get in snout and feet.
Sometimes I have a mind to follow Ann
Eliza's plan—"escape," and as she got an east-
ern man to write up her lecture against the
Mormons, I could get a "Mormon" to write
my lecture, and then tell "what I know of
the anti-Mormons" (and the uncles, too).
	The little EXPONENT comes regularly, and
is, as ever, read with pleasure and interest.
Hoping all will come out right, and that you,
and we all may live in peace and prosperity, I
remain,		Your friend,
