AN ADDRESS.

To the Latter-day Saints in the Rocky Moun-
tain Region and throughout the world:

	As this is the anniversary of the arrival of
the pioneers in Salt Lake Valley under the
direction of President BrighamYoung, we
haye thought it a proper and fitting time to
address you briefly.

[Column 2]

	We came here as exiles thirty-eight years ago,
driven from our lands and homes, our Temple
and City of Nauvoo. We came to find an
asylum in this, the then American desert, and,
far from what is termed civilization, to try to
establish homes and seek that protection
among the red men of the wilderness that was
denied us, because of our religion, in the
United States. There was no other reason
at that time assigned for our expulsion but
our religion. Since then we have been re-
markably blessed by the Almighty in the ex-
tension of our settlements, in the building of
our cities, in the erection of our Temples, in
the introduction of education in all its vari-
ous forms, in our agricultural, manufacturing
and mercantile pursuits, and in the general
development of the resources of the country.
Under the blessings of the Almighty, and
through His guidance and protection, we have
been enabled to make the wilderness and soli-
tary places glad and the desert to blossom as
the rose; and through a spirit of industry,
perseverance and frugality we have been pros-
pered exceedingly in all our settlements.
That which was originally intended by our
enemies for our destruction has been made,
through the blessing of the Almighty, to re-
dound to our peace and happiness, and to our
establishment as a happy people throughout
these valleys—a people from whose family
altars continually ascend praise and adoration
to the Most High for the great blessings which
He has conferred upon us. We feel that unto
God alone and to obedience to His laws are
we indebted for the rich and varied blessings
with which we are surrounded.
	On this, the anniversary of the arrival of
the Pioneers in this Valley of Salt Lake, it is
fitting that we should thus publicly acknowl-
edge the hand of God; and while we at pres-
ent are in circumstances that are painful and
that have been brought about by the action
of inconsiderate, unreflecting, and, in many
instances, wicked and unscrupulous men, some
of whom are officials, yet we have never felt
like wavering in our fidelity to our govern-
ment, nor like ignoring the principles of equal
rights guaranteed by that sacred palladium of
human liberty—the Constitution of the
United States. Our motto always has
been, is now, and we hope always will be, as
expressed in the Declaration of Independence:
"That all men are created equal and are en-
dowed by their Creator with certain inaliena-
ble rights;" and that they have the right to
"life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."
We are filled with regret when we see steps
taken by those in authority, who ought to
know better, to shackle the human mind and
thought, to bring American citizens into bon-
dage, and to pass and maintain laws that are
violative of every constitutional right. His-
tory bears ample testimony to the fact that in
past times no man's property, life or liberty
was safe in the hands of judges who sat upon
the bench and imagined they had a mission to
perform, and who, to accomplish their ends,
had recourse to packed juries.
	The history of Utah, during the past few
months, illustrates the same truth. The au-
thority of the Government is being made use
of, not to protect, but to harass, to prosecute,
persecute and destroy the most honorable and
upright of the land. Families are dissevered
and broken up, the most sacred ties are rent
asunder, homes are made desolate and many

[Column 3]

of our leading men languish in prisons among
thieves, murderers and criminals of the worst
description. Our cities, towns and villages
are infested with spotters, deputy marshals,
informers and all those questionable characters
who have found employment under tyrannical
and despotic governments in other lands and
in darker ages. To see the great principles of
human liberty thus ruthlessly trampled under
foot has caused us to feel sorrowful in our
hearts for this mighty nation cannot follow the
example of other powers who have, through
pride, maladministration of the laws and a
disregard of human rights, fallen into decay
and been overthrown, without meeting a simi-
lar fate.
	It was doubtless with these feelings of sor-
sow for the degeneracy which could permit
such outrages that some of our fellow-citizens
thought proper on the 4th of July to place a
few flags at half mast. Liberty was
stricken down, pierced in her vitals by the
hands of those who should be her protectors
and guardians. The just, the upright, the virtu-
ous and the honorable have been and are being
incarcerated in prisons under the forms and
color of law. And without dishonor to the
flag, what more fitting mode could citizens
adopt of exhibiting their grief at the con-
dition of affairs? To place the flag at half-
mast is the recognized symbol of grief through-
out Christendom. As free men they thought,
we suppose, they had the right to thus ex-
hibit their sorrow for the existence of the
evils from which they suffer, and not hypo-
critically indulge in laudations while upwards
of 200,000 American citizens are practically
denied the rights contended for in the Declara-
tion of Independence. Must a free people be
brought into such a state of servitude that
they cannot express their feelings in a custom-
ary way? Must they be bound, fettered and
chained, and then be gagged so as not to be
heard? Must they cover their manacles with
flowers, or wrap their fetters with cloths, lest
the clanking sound unpleasantly in the ears
of their tyrants, or free men be aroused to re-
volt at the spectacle? Tyrants and their apol-
ogists may attempt to make such action appear
disloyal; but we have not so learned the
principles of freedom. A condition of affairs
exists in this Territory which, when under-
stood, every lover of human rights must con-
demn; and in behalf of ourselves, in behalf of
our wives and children, in behalf of the Con-
stitution of the United States, and in behalf
of the principles of human rights and liberty
in this land and throughout the world, we en-
ter our solemn protest against such iniquitous
acts as are being perpetrated here. While we
do this we wish it to be distinctly understood
that we have no controversy with the Republic
as a nation, but that those who, sitting in high
places and administering the laws, are guilty
of out-rageous acts of oppression toward their
fellow-citizens.
	Millions of the people of this nation are de-
ceived by the false representations of religious
bigots and political tricksters, who, when they
shall know the truth, will be as much disgust-
ed at this outrageous crusade against the princi-
ples of human freedom as we now are.
	In reviewing the past thirty-eight years, what
abundant causes we have for thanksgiving and
praise! Every conceivable slander and false-
hood has been circulated concerning us and
our religion. Our enemies have endeavored


[Column 1]
to make the world believe that we ought to be
destroyed, and they have invoked every earth-
ly power within their reach to accomplish
this. But how marvelously God has wrought?
Time after time it has seemed to all human
vision that our destruction was inevitable, and
our enemies have rejoiced at the prospect.
But God has not forgotten Zion nor the prom-
ises He has made. He permits the wicked to
exercise their agency, and their acts are the
means of testing and proving His people.
But there are limits beyond which they can-
not go. They cannot interfere with His
designs, nor destroy His work. He controls
all their acts for His glory and out of seeming
evil He brings forth abundant salvation. Our
very recent experience shows us that there is
no cloud but has a silver lining. In our past
experience we have often had reason to feel
the truth of the words of the poet, that
	Behind a frowning providence
	He hides a smiling face.
In our present trials we shall have a similar
experience.
	Zion will emerge from them stronger and
purer and every way better qualified to cope
with and overcome the difficulties and obstacles
yet to be encountered. Our trust is not in
numbers, but in the strength and protection
of Israel's God, who controls all the millions
of the world; and puts down one and sets up
another according to the counsel of His own
will.
	If we can only manage to observe His law
and keep His commandments, He will protect
us "while grass grows or water runs," while
sun, moon and stars exist, or the earth and
heavens endure, and when there shall be a
"new heaven and a new earth whereon dwelleth
righteousness." The Saints if faithful to
their covenants, their wives and posterity,
shall enjoy them again, and possess them while
the celestial worlds progress in their eternal
spheres.
	We have been very much pleased at the
heroic conduct and honorable course of our
brethren and sisters who have had to endure
the insults and outrages perpetrated by the
present crusaders. The conduct of the Saints
under these trying circumstances has been
eminently proper. If the nation can bear and
put up with such infamies as have been wit-
nessed in these mountains, we can. We can-
not, however, at the behest of man, lay aside
those great principles that God has communi-
cated to us, nor violate those sacred and
eternal covenants which we have entered into
for time and eternity. It is admitted as a
fundamental principle that the States shall
make no law "impairing the validity of con-
tracts." If this is a correct principle concern-
ing dollars and cents, how much more is it con-
cerning the eternal happiness and salvation of
man!
	﻿While we always have a disposition to "ren-
der unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's"
we feel it indefinitely more important "to rend-
der unto God, the things that are God's" We
can afford to live for our religion, and if needs
be, to die for it; but we cannot afford to vio-
late our covenants, nor to prejudice our souls
before God; and we call upon the Saints, as we
have done heretofore, to lean upon the Lord
while passing through these afflictions which
are now being so unmercifully heaped upon
us by implacable and deadly foes, who are
seeking to crush out from our souls the princi-
ples of human liberty and to place us in a
condition of serfdom and bondage. Our hope
and trust are in the living God, and He will
come to our deliverance in His own due time
and will scatter the en[-]mies of Israel. There-
fore be not faint hearted for God will defend
the right. Live your religion, be humble, be
virtuous, be honorable, be honest, preserve
your integrity and keep the commandments of

[Column 2]
God, and He will sustain you in time and
throughout all the eternities to come, Zion
shall yet arise and shine and the glory of God
will rest upon her. The Saints shall see the
salvation of Israel and their enemies over-
thrown. They shall join in sacred songs and
anthems in praise and great glory to the Most
High, saying, Hallelujah! Hallelujah! for the
Lord God Omnipotent reigneth, and will reign
until he has put all enemies under His feet.
Therefore rally around the standard of free-
dom, uphold the flag of the Republic, sustain
the principles of human liberty and
maintain inviolate the Constitution
of the United States and all laws in accord-
ance therewith, and God shall smile upon you,
and you and your generations shall be blessed
in time and throughout the eternities that are
to come. We must still bear the same record
that we have heretofore borne to you: woe to
them that fight against Zion, for God will
fight against them.
	Although we have changed our office from
time to time we have been able to perform our
duties, with the exception of public addresses, 
as much as when at home. How long it shall
be the good pleasure of God, our Heavenly
Father, that we shall continue in our present
condition mattereth not. We hope always to
be resigned to His providence and to accept
at His hands all that it may be His good
pleasure to call us to endure, whether pros-
perity, or adversity, freedom or imprisonment,
life or death.
	With kind regards, we subscribe ourselves,
your brethren and fellow-laborers in the New
and Everlasting Covenant; 
		JOHN TAYLOR.
		GEORGE Q. CANNON,
	Of the First Presidency of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	July 24th, 1885.


