	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

	Continued.
	On the 3rd of February, 1841, The Patri-
arch, Isaac Morley, came to our house and
gave us each a patriarchal, or father’s blessing.
Mine was as follows:
	“Sister Emily, I lay my hands upon thy
head, in the name of Jesus of Nazareth, and I
seal upon thy head a father’s blessing.  Not-
withstanding thou art an orphan child, the
heavens and the earth are stored with blessings
foy thee.
	Thou hast embraced the fulness of the ever-
lasting Gospel in the days of thy youth, and
in the morn of thy life; thy name is registered
in the heavens.  The angels rejoiced over thee
when thou wast born into the kingdom of thy

[Column 2]
Savior, and if thou wilt ever support the
principles that adorn thy sex, thy name shall
never be erased from the Lamb’s book of life.
	And if thou wilt ask thou shalt receive in-
telligence pertaining to the kingdom of God;
the heavens and the earth shall unbosom their
blessings unto thee; thou shalt have the bless-
ing and gift to speak in wisdom and act in
prudence; thy example shall be worthy of imi-
tation to the daughters of Zion; and if thou
wilt listen to the voice of wisdom length of
days shalt be given unto thee, and thou shalt
have the blessing to see the winding up scene
of this generation; peace and tranquility re-
stored to man.  Thy blessing shall be handed
down to thy posterity from generation to genera-
tion, and thou shalt have the blessing to return
to the land of thine inheritance.  And thou
shalt have the blessing to see Ephraim crowned,
and to wait upon the table in a day when a
feast of fat things are prepared.  Thou shalt
sing the song of the redeemed.  And I ask
God my Heavenly Father to enlighten thy
mind, to guide thee in the days of thy youth,
and lead thee in the path of piety and virtue
all the days of thy life, and when thy Savior
shall make His second advent crowns of glory
shall be sealed upon thy head, and let the hon-
or and glory be given to God and the Lamb,
forever and ever, amen and amen."
	Times were hard and we were very destitute,
having been robbed and driven from our
homes and possessions so many times, and hav-
ing had much sickness after we came to Nau-
voo, and being afflicted in various ways, conse-
quently we were reduced to extreme poverty.
Mother was good at turning her hand to al-
most anything.  She got an old stock, such as
men wore at their necks at that time, ripped it
up, to learn how it was made, and then obtained
a block and went to work making stocks to sell.
In that way she earned a little to keep her
family.  My sister Eliza and myself were the
oldest of the children, and it seemed necessary
that we should do something toward earning a
living. Eliza had learned the tailor’s trade
while in Far West, and was a good seamstress;
she had no difficulty in obtaining work; but I,
what could I do?  I had learned to wash dishes,
to sweep and scrub a puncheon floor, and such
like things, aud the only chance that seemed
to be for me was to go out to work.  We would
think and talk upon this subject day after day,
and l think I cried a little, for the thought of
having to leave home to me was terrible.
While things, with us were in this condition,
Sister Emma sent for me to come and live with
her and nurse her baby.  It seemed as if the
Lord had opened up my way, it was so unex-
pected, and nothing could have suited me bet-
ter, for tending babies was my delight.  My
sister Eliza, also, went there to live, which
made it pleasanter for me and more home-like.
Joseph and Emma were very kind to us; they
were almost like a father and mother, and I
loved Emma and the children, especially the
baby, little Don Carlos.
	They gave me the privilege of attending
a school that summer, taught by Brother and
Sister Howard Coray.  This was the last of
my going to school.  What little education I
have got I received in the log cabin schools, as
we were roaming about, being driven from
place to place; but I have gained an experience
that money cannot purchase.
	On the 15th of August, 1841, the baby, Don
Carlos, died.  John C. Bennett made it his
home at the Prophet’s house at this time. He
was thought to be quite a great man, and had
cnnsiderable influence for good; but afterwards
turned traitor, and sought to injure Brother
Joseph by publishing falsehoods.  He secretly
worked for his destruction, and once, when the
Nauvoo Legion were having a sham battle, he
laid his plan to have the Prophet slain, but
Brother Joseph detected it, and frustrated his
wicked design.


[Column 1]
	The first intimation I had from Brother
Joseph that there was a pure and holy order
of plural marriage, was in the spring of 1842,
but I was not married until 1843. I was
married to him on the 11th of May, 1843, by
Elder James Adams. Emma was present.
She gave her free and full consent. She had
always, up to this time, been very kind to me
and my sister Eliza, who was also married to
the Prophet Joseph with Emma's consent; but
ever after she was our enemy. She used every
means in her power to injure us in the eyes of
her husband, and before strangers, and in conse-
quence of her abuse, we were obliged to leave
the Mansion House, and expected to leave the
city to gratify her, but things were overruled
otherwise, and we remained in Nauvoo.  My
sister Eliza found a home with the family of
Bro. Joseph Cooledge, and I went to live with
Sister Sylvia Lyons. She was a good woman,
and one of the Lord's chosen few. Emma
about this time, gave her husband two other
wives—Maria and Sarah Lawrence.
	Early in the spring of 1843 the Young
Gentlemen and Ladies' Relief Society was or-
ganized. Bro. Joseph gives a short sketch of
the rise of that society. He says: "In the
latter part of January, 1843, a number of
young people assembled at the house of Elder
H. C. Kimball, who warned them against the
various temptations to which youth is exposed,
and gave an appointment, expressly for the
young, at the house of Elder Billings, and an-
other meeting was held in the ensuing seek at
Bro. Farr's school room, which was filled to
overflowing. Elder Kimball delivered ad-
dresses, exhorting the young people to study
the Scriptures and enable themselves to 'give
a reason for the hope within them,' and to be
ready to go on the stage of action, when their
present instructors and leaders had gone be-
hind the scenes; also to keep good company, and
keep pure and unspotted from the world.
	"The next meeting was appointed at my
house, and notwithstanding the inclemency of
the weather, it was completely filled at an
early hour. Elder Kimball, as usual, delivered
an address, warning his hearers against giving
heed to their youthful passions, and exhorting
them to be obedient, and to pay strict attention
to the advice and command of their parents,
who were better calculated to guide the path-
way of youth than they themselves. My
house being too small, the next meeting was
appointed to be held in the hall over my
store.
	"I addressed the young people for some time,
expressing my gratitude to Elder Kimball for
having commenced this glorious work, which
would be the means of doing a great deal of
good, and said the gratitude of all good men
and of the youth, would follow him through
life, and he would always look back upon the
winter of 1843 with pleasure.
	"I experienced more embarrassment in stand-
ing before them than I should before kings and
nobles of the earth, for I knew the crimes of
which they were guilty, and knew precisely
how to address them, but that my young friends
were guilty of none of them, and therefore I
hardly knew what to say. I advised them to
organize themselves into a society for the re-
lief of the poor, and I recommended to them
a poor lame English brother (Maudsley) who
wanted a house built, that he might have a
home amongst the Saints; that he had gathered
a few materials for the purpose, but was unable
to use them, and had petitioned for aid. I ad-
vised them to choose a committee to collect
funds for their purpose and perform this charit-
able act as soon as the weather permitted. I
gave them such advice as I deemed was calcu-
lated to guide their conduct through life and
prepare them for a glorious eternity. A meet-
ing was appointed to carry out these sugges-
tions, at which William Cutler was chosen

			[Column 2]
President and Marcellus L. Bates, Clerk; An-
drew Cahoon, C. V. Spencer and Stephen
Perry, were appointed to draft a constitution
for the society, and the meeting adjourned to
the 28th of March, when the said committee
submitted a draft of a constitution, consisting of
twelve sections. The report was unanimously
adopted, and the meeting proceeded to choose
their officers. William Walker was chosen
President; William Cutler, Vice President;
Lorin Walker, Treasurer; James M. Monroe,
Secretary; Stephen Perry, Marcellus L. Bates,
R. A. Allred, William H. Kimball and Garret
Ivins, were  appointed a committee of vigilance.
The meeting then adjourned until the next
Tuesday evening.
	“The next meeting was addressed by Elders
Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and
Jedediah M. Grant, whose instructions were
listened to with breathless attention."
	After the Prophet's death, I again entered
into plural marriage. I was married to Prest.
Brigham Young according to the law of proxy,
and received my blessings in the Temple at
Nauvoo. I had one son born in Nauvoo; he
was named Edward Partridge Young Smith.
The Saints were again driven from their homes,
and I crossed the Mississippi River about the
middle of February, 1846, and was again
without home or shelter, an outcast and a wan-
derer in the dreary wilderness, without even
the necessaries of life. My babe was about
three months old. I was not quite twenty-two,
and had been driven, with  the Saints of God,
by mobs, four times, and all for my religion.
The weather being cold and stormy, the camp
could not progress very fast on their jour-
ney.
	As the season advanced, settlements were
formed, and some of the different companies
stopped to raise crops and recruit their teams.
When we arrived at Grand River our company
halted until other companies came up. A set-
tlement was organized, and Father Wm.
Huntington was appointed to preside. He
died and was buried there. The place was
named Mt. Pisgah. Here I joined my mother's
family, and as she was going to stop, I con-
cluded that I would rather stop, too, rather
than be separated from her again. The breth-
ren built log huts for those who were going to
stay, and although they were without door, win-
dow, floor, fireplace, or chimney, they did nicely
for warm weather.  Our shanty was in a
beautiful grove on the hill, about half a mile
from the river ford. We had several neigh-
bors close by.
	My sisters, Eliza and Caroline, went on
with the companies. and as my baby was very
sick at the time it made me feel very lonesome
to see them all go and leave us, so few, alone
in the wilderness.


