	GRANT. 

	"Death thou art infinite—'tis life is little."

	Our flag is floating in the breeze half mast, with 
flowing crape attached to it.  The ex-President of 
the United States has passed to the common
bourne "whence no traveler returns."  Our spirits
as a people, are in unison with that semblance of 
mourning, for we are suffering persecution and
woe.  Our very children are mourning for their


[Column 1]
absent fathers, thrown into prison for a principle
of their religion; hence it has for us a speaking
application, and seems to acknowledge the cloud
that is hovering over our otherwise beautiful at-
mosphere. 
	We are prepared to mourn.  The heart's deep
fountain is full, and, therefore, is easily broken up, 
and tears fall readily.  My tears have fallen as I 
read the last scenes of the mighty dead, America's
great chieftain and renowned warrior, the earthly 
savior of his country, as his warlike achievements
testify; hence, the half-mast colors of our country
this day in silent eloquence proclaim his loss. He 
was one of those deep souls whose lives are ab-
sorbed in thinking.  Silence was his motto, when
he spoke it was to command obedience to the
plans he had concocted, which were framed to 
win. 
	In life, he was applauded and appreciated—not 
always the meed of the great.  This was amply
tested when on his circumnavigating trip; every-
where he received a royal welcome.  Royal salutes
announced the arrival of his vessel in the nations'
harbors. England was especially prominent in 
these royal demonstrations. When entering
Buckingham Palace the sovereign laid aside the
severe etiquette of centuries, and met him in the
vestibule at the "top of the stairs," and, herself, 
escorted him to the seat of honor prepared for 
him! Henri Quarte of Charlemagne could have 
received no greater national honor!—as a brother
sovereign he was entertained throughout the visit. 
Even his daughter, of eighteen only—when she
chose to visit England, shone by reflection from 
her mighty sire, and she was also received by a 
royal salute as soon as she entered the nationa
harbor as one born in the purple and draped with
royal ermine.  During her visit in England she
was also received with due honors at the Queen's 
drawing rooms.  Perhaps an American can scarce-
ly realize how very distingue all this is in the
appreciation of the English.  And perhaps they 
can; for I believe the grand old country is pretty
well understood in this enlightened 19th century. 
These honors were tendered to the daughter of 
the man England delighted to honor.  Some may
curl the lip at all this, but none will who have
ever experienced it, for it is always given in so 
grand, so noble, and so genial a manner, that I 
should pity the heart and brain that were not ig-
nited by it with all the understanding, and apprec-
ciation they were capable of. 
	Death, that grand leveller of all has now done
his work upon our ex-President.  Tears have been 
shed for the sufferings of his last days; he has
the sympathy of nations and of their crowned
heads; for the good and the noble among them 
(and they are not a few) realize more than is gener-
ally believed—how frail is the texture by which
they hold their eminence; and that at the termina-
tion of their longest reign, death and the grave
await them equally with the humblest of their
subjects. 
	The last words of Charles the First to his
young son, a few hours before his sad death, con-
stitute a short sermon that ought to be written in 
gold; also those of James the 2nd, the exiled
King of England.  Yes, indeed, even among
crowned heads we find the grandeur and nobility
of the Christian.  The thoughtless mind looks
upon their exalted position, with envy and repining
and often with doubt as to the justice of the "King
of Kings"—not considering that with all their
grand surroundings, they also must find happiness
within their own bosoms or they can never pos-
sess it.  The grandeur and the greatness of the
world cannot give it.  History shows what mar-
tyrs many of them have been, and often we read
how nobly they endured. 
	God is just and one day this will be demonstra-
ted to all. 
	But I lift up my eyes and see the half-mast
colors with their mournful accompaniment and

[Column 2]
my thoughts run back to my starting point.  The
American chieftain "sleeps well, after life's fitful
fever is ended."  If he has earned a crown, he
will assuredly wear one eternally, and that he may
attain to that and all its appendages, is the
heartfelt prayer of one who is a unit in the family
of God. 
	HANNAH T. KING. 
	July 24th, 1885.


