LOGAN TEMPLE. 

	Pursuant to the provisions of the Articles of 
Incorporation, of "The Logan Temple Associa-
tion"  the directors of the same, prepared and
adopted a code of by-laws at a meeting recently
called for that purpose; these by-laws will more
thoroughly assist to carry into effect the object
and designs of the Association.  On Monday, 
July 13th, 1885, the annual meeting of the mem-
bers was held in the basement of the Logan Taber-
nacle at which the by-laws were read.  The re-
port of the directors was presented and received. 
It set, forth that the Trustee-in-Trust had conveyed 
the legal title of the Temple and grounds to the
Incorporation, that instructors of various branches
of learning had been appointed, viz:  James Z. 
Steward, theology; Apostle Moses Thatcher, Civil
Government; Wm. H. Apperley, Science and Lan-
guage; James A. Leishman, History; Charles W. 
Nibley, Domestic and Political Economy; John
E. Carlisle, Natural Philosophy.  It is expected
that classes will at once be formed in the forego-
ing departments and lectures delivered upon topics
embraced within their purview. 
	A lecture room has been fitted up in the temple, 
in which will assemble the various classes con-
templated from time to time, to take part in the
exercises that may be assigned them by their re-
spective instructors.  During the past year up-
wards of one hundred volumes of standard au-
thors, chiefly of an historical character, have been
collected, and an elegant home-made book case
provided for them.  This is a very fair beginning
for an excellent library, which will be indispen-
sable to the growth and development of the As-
sociation.
	The incorporation having no assets, it being
purely an institution of learning, and not one of
pecuniary profit, it is expected that the Saints
generally will contribute liberally for the further
improvement and adornment of the grounds, the
purchase of literary apparatus, and donate books
suitable to the character of the institution. 
	That an association of this character has been
established should call forth the aid and support
of the Saints, and is reason for gratification
among all lovers of learning.  It will open up a 
field of instruction which will be of incalculable
benefit to all who will take an interest in it.—Ex. 
	JAMES A. LEISHMAN, Secretary.


[Column 1]
