BOX ELDER SRAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Box
Elder Stake convened in the Tabernacle at
Brigham City, on the 8th of June, Sister
Harriet Snow presiding. On the stand were
present all the officers of the Stake organiza-
tion, except the second counselor, Sister Mary
Stark, who is and has been, very sick for
several months. Prest. Oliver Snow and
Patriarch Box were also present.
	Sisters Hubbard, Keller, and Harper report-
ed verbally, after which Prest. O. S. Snow said:
"I look upon these organizations as a great
help to the Priesthood, organized by the revela-
tion of God, hence the importance. A few
years ago they were but small organizations,
but now they are wonderfully extensive. I
can also see a great improvement in the sisters,
intellectually; many if them can rise and
speak eloquently on any subject; not that I
wish to say that it is necessary to be a fluent
speaker in order to be useful in the kingdom
of God; we find many who have  not that talent,
but are great helps in the kimgdom." Spoke 
of the firmness of many women; referred to
the persecutions of to-day, and said, "They do
not care anything for our morality or immorali-
ty," and showed how inconsistent the proceed-
ings are.
	During Prest. Snow's speaking, Sisters Eliza
R. Snow Smith and Jane Richards had arrived
with the train, and entered during his re-
marks.
	Sisters Jane Richards felt pleased with the
remarks of Prest. Snow; "He has given us
quite an encouragement; we all like to be en-
couraged once in a while, but most of us do
not enjoy being reproved, although it will do us
good. We need to be very humble and prayer-
ful. We have had peace so long that I almost
feared the Lord had forgotten us, but we see
He has not, for the Scripture says that the
son or daughter that He loves, He will chastise.
hence, those that are persecuted are the people
of God. When we feel the Spirit of God
resting upon us we feel reconciled to whatever
the Lord will require; if we live faithful lives,
full of His Spirit, we cannot alone call Him
Father, but we feel He is Father." Spoke
very encouragingly and instructive; alluded to
the trials and unpleasantness of those who are
persecuted, but thought we had to be thankful
and rejoice that we are numbered among God's
chosen people.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith felt pleased to
see such a large congregation in the forenoon;
said, "You and I do not want to belong to the
exception, we want to be true, to belong to
those God has revealed but what is more
than mortal lives. As a people we have grown
very selfish, our hearts have drawn out to the
love of the world." Spoke of her feelings and
experience at the time she embraced the Gos-
pel, the powers of darkness exerted itself so
strongly. Said, death is a thousand times
more acceptable than apostacy. Bro. Heber
C. Kimball was called the prophet of Brigham.
He said, 'There will come a day that will try
every one.' So there will be something that
will try every one of this peope."
	Conference adjourned till two o'clock. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Bro. Box.
	Afternoon session: After the opening exer-
cises, the following sisters spoke and reported
their different organizations:	Sister Terry,
Mary Grant, Mary E. Snow, Susannah Booth.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith said, "We have
heard so many things-- we have come to
a fountain that will never be exhausted. Our
religion is a pratical one, not theory alone; we
are workers, and to become a good housekeep-
er I think is one of the greatest arts, if not
the greatest. Let our young girls learn to be
good housekeepers, and then cultivate fancy
work, art and music after; but let housekeep-
ing be the first consideration." Spoke in very
strong language against "banged hair;" said,
"We want our young girls to look the most
sensible, the most intellectual. When I meet
a young lady who is willing to show her brow,
I see she has some sense." To have a good
home it takes order; it is no ordinary thing to
be a good housekeeper. Should a mother, then,
take all the responsibility and care upon her-
self through sympathy for her daughters? It
is a cruel mother that will do all herself to
save her girls. A good home is the founda-
tion of a nation." Spoke of home industry,
storing grain for the famine and raising silk.
"A few individuals have done the best they
could, but the Lord never meant to accomplish
these things by individuals and then we are
told to keep the Sabbath day holy. We had
better suffer persecution than to be a rejected
people. I have heard from others that the


Prophet Joseph had said that the Saints
would go up to the Rocky Mountains, and
there should be the greatest apostacy—about
two-thirds of the people. Bro. Kimball said
the same. what of we should go to prison—I
don't know, but I hope I would die cheerfully
rather than relinquish one principle of our re-
ligion. It is not alone our privilege, but our
duty to acknowledge the hand of God in all
things. We have more to encourage us, to see
this ordeal before us, than otherwise; I believe
when this is past Zion will be resplendent. Told
how she had seen the time when the Saints
would be one in principle. Spoke in beauti-
ful and eloquent language about our striving to
be faithful.
	Sister Jane S. Richards said: "I have been
thinking if it would be wisdom to try to speak
after having heard such an excellent discourse
as we have heard. I have thought a great
deal of Sister Eliza's remarks on Sabbath
breaking, which is a subject that interests me
greatly." Spoke of the many conferences we
have the privilege of attending, and how great-
ly we are blest; all are comfortably dressed, and
have plenty to eat. We have seen hard times
in the past. Felt thankful for the many rains
we have had this spring, and said, "To me this
is a great comfort, to see the Lord is not going
to starve us while we are persecuted. The
Lord will arrange our affairs better for us than
we can." Referred to those who neglect our
meetings; felt to give them a special blessing,
because they did not enjoy. what we do who
meet together. Spoke eloquently on the bless-
ings we enjoy, and prayed fervently that those
present might prove faithful.
	Bishop Terry from three Mile, and Bishop
Harper from Calls Fort, both made a few clos-
ing remarks full of encouragement.
	Prest. Harriet Snow notified all to attend
the Relief Society Fair in the Court House,
and after singing, conference adjourned for 
three months.
			THE FAIR.
	The fair was a beautiful sight, particularly
so to those who know that almost everything
was what the sisters had on hand, not exactly
prepared for a fair. The spirit of the time
has cast a certain gloom over everybody, and
the craving for pleasure not so great. Many
felt like giving it up, but Sister Susannah
Booth, with her natural energy, felt otherwise,
and the love that we feel for "Aunt Harriet,"
our President, caused that everybody brought
forth in a hurry all the nice things they had on
hand—too numerous to mention all— beautiful
quilts, dainty lace pillow shams, tidies in net-
ting, knitting and crochet, one lovely knitted
bedspread, by Sister Barnard White of Three
Mile, embroidered collars, pillows cases, skirts,
baby dresses, aprons, a lot of netted neckties,
for sale, made by Sister Karen Olsen, seventy-
seven years old; beautiful lace neckties, Sister
Smith, sixty-nine years old; fanciful patterns,
knitted in wool and cotton, stockings both for
children and adults, crochet baby jackets, knit-
ted petticoats, for ladies and babies, in wool,
shawls, red, black, white and black checked,
lindsey, white checked and changable, a good
many pieces; rugs, knitted garters, odd pattern,
beautiful worked mottoes, mats, ornaments of
different kinds, beautiful gloves, collars in silk
and beads, hats for boys and girls, pincushions,
sofacushions in tapestry, and elegant crazy quilt,
by Susannah Booth, good shoelaces, made by
a Swedish brother by the name of Carlsen,
embroidered flannel skirts, a lovely scarf em-
broidered with cream colored silk on same
color nun's veiling, by Alvira Widerborg; a
novelty in a corset, made of home-made linen,
by Theorie Mikkelsen; horns for autumn leaves,
beautifully ornamented; cromoes; and a striking
feature was a hat and wreath made of fibres of
a squash vine, by Chiefess Rapukine, President
of the Relief Society of Mauie, Hawaiian
Islands, presented to Armeda Young; rag car-
pets; wool carpets, striped; vegetables and
fruits; beautiful flowers, growing everywhere,
and lovely cutflowers, but the main spot of
beauty and attraction was the
			SILK DEPARTMENT.
	Here were worms eating away their green
leaves, some spinning, still in the brush, fresh
cocoons from this year, seven pounds of silk,
some reeled, some spun and colored, by several
sisters, but the following is silk by Sister
Christena and Eliza Forgren: six different
kinds of silk cloth; sixteen yards one lovely
piece of changable crimson and blue dress
goods; thirteen yards of purple and white;
twelve yards of pink and white, for underwear,
woven kersey; ten yards beautiful heavy black
and white, woven four leaf, intended for vests
for all their sons and sons-in-law; also a small
sample in blue and brown of the same material;
eight yards of white kersey, for underwear;
sewing silk, spun and twisted, red, blue, black
and white; black mitts; red and white neckties;
black and white collars, done in netting and
crochet; three grey made up dresses, one
trimmed around the skirt with a heavy black
silk fringe, also home made; one dress of the
same—property of Alvira Forsgren, Secretary.
All of the above is entirely Mrs. Christena and
Eliza Fosgren's own work, form the green
mulberry leaf to the last stitch in making it
up. Gedske Rasmuson, seventy-two years of
age, had one changable dress, crimson and
blue, made by herself, except coloring and
weaving, which was done by Mrs. Christena
Forsgren. Two grey dresses made by Mrs.
Christena Christensen and daughter.
