Vol. II JUNE, 1915 No. 6 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 29, BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO. NEWS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY OUR DRUG STORE IS COMPLETE PRICES RIGHT We Solicit Your Patronage Prompt Attention to Mail Orders TRY OUR QUICK LUNCH—IT'S DELICIOUS FRESH FLOWERS DAILY Marion Banks FINE MILLINERY CHARLTON'S Exclusive and correct styles in at reasonable Prices Women's Wear. Suits in Newest Cloth and Silk Materials, Latest GOODWIN CORSETS Modes in Gowns and Blouses. This ad. will redeem 10 per cent. on purchases at regular price. 242 SOUTH MAIN STREET When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction Two Books that Every L. D. S. Family Should Have The L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, approved by the Church Authorities, in which to enter the most important events and dates in the histories of families and individuals. Price $1.25 postpaid. Family Record of Temple Work The Thomas for the Dead. $1.25 and upward. Write for Sample Pages, Free Deseret News Book Store PLAN YOUR GARDEN NOW You will find our Seed and Nursery Guide Book the most valuable assistant in telling you just what is worth while to plant in this climate. This book contains 112 pages fully illustrated just brimful of the information needed by every planter of Seeds, Plants, Shrubs, Roses and Trees. By securing it you will get the benefit of the thousands of experiments carried on at our Centerville Trials Grounds, and this alone is worth Dollars. You are entitled to a free copy of this valuable book. Mention this paper and write for it today. PORTER-WALTON CO. Seed and Nursery Specialists for U. S. A. SALT LAKE The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS — June 1915

Mother Love — Maud Baggarley, 255
The Genealogical Convention at the Fair — Janette A. Hyde, 257
The April Conference — Amy Brown Lyman, 260
Early Development of the Textile Art — Rose H. Widtsoe, 266
Clothing — The Two Sarahs, 269
In the Kitchen Laboratory, 272
Health Development — Maud Baggarley, 274
Notes from the Field, 276
A Prince of Ur, 279
Homespun, 279
Current Topics — James H. Anderson, 285
Genealogy, 287
Editorial: The Battle of Wills, 290
Guide Lessons, 293

ADVERTISERS’ DIRECTORY

AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah
AMERICAN THEATER
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City
BUTLER'S BOOTERY, Salt Lake City
CUTLER'S, 36 S. Main Street, Salt Lake City
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main Street, Salt Lake City
JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake City
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main & 260 State St., Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
MARIAN BANKS, Millinery
CHARLTON'S SUIT & CLOAK CO., 242 South Main, Salt Lake City
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
PORTER-WALTON CO., Seedmen, Nurserymen & Florists, Salt Lake City
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City
S. M. TAYLOR & CO., Undertakers, 251–259 E. First South Street, Salt Lake City
THOMAS, Photographer
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City
WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City
 Mother-Love. By Maud Baggarley. Of all thy gifts, dear Lord, I count the wondrous mother-love, the greatest, best, The purest impulse earth doth know; The quickening power by which we grow In grace and favor, day by day; The pure, white flame which thou hast sent To guide us on the upward way. And thou didst give it not alone To one who journeys down to death That she may hear a little wailing cry and fluttering breath — And quickened with a thrill divine, Know joy akin to thine When thou didst look upon a new made world And call it good; Nay, not to her alone, But also unto one with empty arms; A suppliant at thy throne. Whose loving mother-heart No other feels beneath her own: Yet thou didst give a wealth of tenderness To her — all desolate and lone — That little seeking hands might find the empty groping ones And need and pure desire Be warmed beside a sacred fire Of mother-love. And too, the bird with broken wing whose bitter cry doth lure In anguished fear unwary one too near a hidden nest — She too is moved by the great, tender, mother-heart Within her throbbing breast. From bird to man whom thou in thine own image made, And told to upward look all unafraid. Each hath within his inmost heart A portion of that self-effacing love By grace of which he plays a kingly part, Performs brave deeds and high. Which wakens all the soul of him And fits him for the sky. For mother-love is but a tiny spark Of that pure fire, divine, That burns within that holy heart of thine — Since thou, thyself, art love, O God! THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. II. JUNE, 1915. No. 6. The Genealogical Convention at the Fair. By Janette A. Hyde. If I were asked to name the one most beautiful and unique feature of the Panama-Pacific Exposition, which Mrs. Rebecca C. Nibley and myself visited recently, I would say, it is the wonderful electrical displays which make the nights a blaze of glory and a dream of fairyland. Particularizing a little and answering the question as to how we spent our two days, and how others might best spend ten days at the convention, I might begin as we began, with a visit to the Utah Building. We have a beautiful state building, within and without. Everybody from the state is expected to go there and register, get programs, write letters, and rest in the luxurious rest-rooms; and if one is ill or overtired, a little light refreshment is served. Everybody meets everybody in the Utah Building, and we were exceedingly proud of our state and of the splendid manner in which we are represented in the building itself, and in the various departments where our exhibits are located. Never having been in Europe, nor indeed out of the United States, I wanted to see all of the foreign exhibits and buildings that I could crowd into two days. My dear friend Mrs. Nibley was willing to gratify this longing of mine; and so we began with perhaps the finest building of the nations which are represented at this wonderful Fair — the Canadian Building. This we decided is the best and most complete of them all. The exhibit is arranged so compactly, that when you go in on the left, you keep to the left, constantly passing by a wonderful panoramic view of the historical development of Canada, from the earliest known days down to the present time. The miniature trains and elevators, with the apple exhibits in great heaps, dazzle one with the marvelous resources of this scarcely developed country. 258 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Japan covers ten acres of land with its quaint buildings made of knock-down material. Holland, Argentina, and China all drew our attention, and fastened our eyes and loitering feet within their confines. Hawaii has a series of moving pictures that are remarkable; and a splendid musical program is given from 2 to 4 p. m., in their building. But we really spent more time visiting the miniature exhibit of the Panama Canal than any other feature. It is a marvelous reproduction of the Isthmus of Panama and the famous Culebra Cut which unites ocean to ocean, and which is the occasion for this exposition. INSIDE INN, AT THE EXPOSITION. One of the delightful features of our two days' excursion was the cute little miniature auto train which took us, for twenty cents, all through the grounds, giving us a sightseeing view of the whole Fair. Added to this was the little electrics — cunning little basket autos holding but two, and so simple of construction and manipulation, that anybody, even two untaught Utah women could run the little fixing after we got into it. The guide starts you off, and for a small sum an hour, you have the use of this little basket electric, and you can go where you please and stay as long as you please, without having to walk miles and miles between exhibits. You can get a meal on the grounds at any hour of the day. or night, practically,' and they are as cheap as any that you get GENEALOGICAL CONTENTION AT THE FAIR. 259 anywhere; while the cooking is excellent and they are served a la carte, that is, so much for each article of food. We have given here the illustration of the Inside Inn, which is a mammoth hostelry inside the grounds, accommodating thousands of guests, with rates running from modest sums up to the most expensive cost. The Inside Inn will be used by the delegates of the Genealogical Society when they are at the Exposition, whose meeting is to be held July 26 and 27, in the Auditorium. A view of this magnificent building we also are presenting to our readers. In this Auditorium will be held many hundreds — if not AUDITORIUM, PANAMA-PACIFIC EXPOSITION. thousands — of congresses and conventions. It has been erected at a cost of $1,200,000 to house the many gatherings scheduled to hold meetings in the Exposition City, there being nearly 500 of these conventions. The great audience hall will seat 11,000 people, and there are many smaller audience halls in the building to the number of 26. This Auditorium is not in the grounds, but it is in what is called the Civic Center. The Congress on Genealogy is certainly a feature which holds the attraction for the people of Utah; and those who are fortunate enough to attend it, may be sure of finding a wonderland at the Exposition, and an education in genealogy during the week of Tnlv26. The April Conference. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. The Annual conference of the Relief Society was held Friday and Saturday, April 2 and 3, with a large attendance from practically all the stakes of the Church. Two public sessions were held on Friday in the Salt Lake Assembly hall; and on Saturday, two officer's meetings were held in the Assembly room of the Bishop's building. The Saturday morning meeting was a business session, and the afternoon was devoted to department work. The music, which was a special feature of the conference, was under the direction of Lizzie Thomas Edward, who had spared no pains in her effort for excellence in the program; the Relief Society choir which gave the opening and closing numbers of the general sessions, deserved special mention for its work. The following numbers were given by the choir: "Lead us, O Father," "Praise ye the Father," "Work for the Night is Coming," "Palm Branches," "Ave Maria," and "Sanctus." Special musical numbers included: organ solo, organist, Edna Coray; vocal duet, Laurinda P. Brewerton and Don Priestly; instrumental music, Prof. Willard Weihe and Prof. J. J. McClellan; tenor solo, Robert Siddoway; solo, Lizzie Thomas Edward; and a duet. "Come Unto Me," from Handel's Messiah, by Lizzie Thomas Edward and Agnes Olsen Thomas, accompanied by Edna Coray, organ; Frank Asper, flute; Vaughn Clayton, violin. The meetings of the conference were presided over by the President, Emmeline B. Wells, who, at the opening session, extended an affectionate greeting to those in attendance. She expressed thanks and gratitude for the condition of peace which prevails in this country today, and sorrow for suffering humanity in Europe. Mrs. Wells congratulated the Relief Society members on the excellent reports received at the Office, and prayed for all to be blessed with perfect faith, which she maintains is the greatest joy and comfort obtainable. ^Mrs. Annie C. Hindley, president of the Alpine stake Relief Society, responded to the president's address of welcome. Mrs. Hindley paid an eloquent tribute to President Wells, and said her life had been an inspiration to all women. She also expressed gratitude and appreciation for all the work of the General Board, and especially for their efforts in relation to the Magazine, and the outlines for study contained therein. Stake reports were made as follows: Boise stake, by Laura J. Adamson; Ogden stake, bv Vincv R. Barker. THE APRIL CONFERENCE. 261 It was reported that the Relief Society in both these stakes is in a good condition. The Boise stake is a little over a year old. It covers a large area, taking in twelve counties; and from the extreme east to the extreme west, it is 400 miles. Mrs. Adamson reported that, since the beginning of the year, the stake president had traveled over 5,000 miles in visiting the stake. The speaker expressed appreciation for the Magazine and especially for the Guide work. Mrs. Vincy R. Barker gave an interesting report of the genealogical work done in the Ogden stake, stating that through special and systematic work, they had succeeded in arousing such interest with their 565 genealogical workers, that 935 family charts have been begun, and 615 historical sketches written. Mrs. Mary A. Howell, wife of Congressman Howell, addressed the audience briefly, stating that although she had been away from Utah a good many years, she had not lost interest in the Relief Society organization and its beautiful work. Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott, President of the North Weber stake, gave an address on Art. She gave a brief outline of the history of art, tracing it through the early Italian period, down to modern painting, mentioning briefly the most noted painters. She praised the work of the Utah artists, and urged all Utahns to give them greater encouragement in the future than they have had in the past. At the Friday afternoon session, addresses were made by Martha A. F. Keeler, president of Utah stake, and Elder B. H. Roberts, with remarks by President Wells, and Counselors Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith. Mrs. Keeler's subject was "The Scope of Relief Society Work." She spoke of the great membership of the Society, its affiliation with the National Council of Women, its Magazine, containing a course of study, and its broad fields of work and activity. She felt that membership in this organization is a prize that cannot be too highly valued. The chief work of the Relief Society is ministering to those in need, and developing spirituality in its own members, but the women who compose the organization are pleased also that other fields of activity are open to them. They are progressive, and reach out for information and for cultural work of many kinds. They are experiencing much success and satisfaction in genealogical research and temple work, in literature, in the art of homemaking, and other lines. This condition is attractive to the progressive, and will no doubt bring hundreds into the Society. The membership of the Relief Society should comprise every woman in the Church. It is very desirable that our membership increase and include the young women, that they may be trained to carry the work forward. It has long been the desire of all concerned, that 262 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. more of the young women identify themselves with the organization, and every effort should be made to bring this about. In order to attract a large majority of women, the work must be broad enough to afford a variety of subject matter to meet the tastes, talents and righteous ambitions of a large body of persons. It should be remembered that the present generation of young women is made up largely of girls who have had training and education. A wise president will therefore use this well prepared material as it comes to the Society. There is work for the old, and the young, and room for all in the Relief Society. Mrs. Keeler spoke of the great work of the teacher, and suggested that in addition to doing the special material work connected with the Relief Society, our teachers be trained along the same lines as the teachers in the priesthood. The speaker pleaded for progress in the individual societies, and for the adoption of any plans, devices, or methods that will secure the greatest good to the greatest number. Elder B. H. Roberts gave an eloquent address, his subject being, "What does Christ mean to you and to me?" He dwelt forcibly on the immeasurable influence which the Savior has upon the human race. He compared his influence to the rays of the sun, which radiate their light and heat everywhere. Christ's life and character made an especial appeal to women, because of their strong spirituality, said the speaker, and he finds in them his most loyal followers. This is proved, said Elder Roberts, in the case of the women with whom Christ associated here on the earth. Mary and Martha were among the first to the cross, and, after the burial, the first to visit the tomb, and when the faith of the apostles wavered, these women never faltered in their confidence that Christ would return. The speaker paid an eloquent tribute to motherhood and the mother's mission in life. He drew a parallel between them and the creative and sustaining power of Christ. The two things we worship in Christ, said Elder Roberts, are his power as a creator, and his power as a sustainer, a guide. The speaker said he often reflected on which of these powers is the greater. To them he compared motherhood and mothering — in motherhood the power of creating, and in mothering the function of taking care of the little souls placed in the keeping of mothers. Of these two functions he placed mothering as the highest, for motherhood is a power shared by practically all womankind, but the strength and the wisdom to "mother" properly, to control righteously, the destiny of little children, is a much rarer gift. Other Christian sects, said the speaker, say that Christ is an impersonal being, in order to explain his omnipresence. They have an erroneous idea, declared the speaker. Christ is a personal being, omnipresent in the sense that his power and influence extend throughout the universe. He is the source of our intelligence, inspiration, and understanding. Christ is the perTHE APRIL CONFERENCE. 263 fect expression of God's love. How great that love is is explained by the fact that God so loved the world that he gave his only Begotten Son to redeem it. Yet Christ's love for the human race is quite equal to that of God's, as was shown in the supreme sacrifice involved in the atonement. The speaker concluded by pointing out the necessity of accepting Christ by faith and obeying his commandments. It would be easy for us to obey him, he said, if he were our constant companion, but it requires strength to emulate him separated from him as we are. Counselor Julina L. Smith dwelt clearly and forcibly on the duties of the Latter-day Saint woman. She enumerated as the first and most important duty of all, that which each woman owes to her home, her children and her husband. After fulfilling these, she should search for other spheres of activity. The most important duty outside the home is that of the Relief Society. It will bring the greatest development and the most happiness. Mrs. Smith urged with great force the careful training of children religiously and morally. To this problem every mother should bend her best efforts because of the sacredness of the duty laid upon her as a parent. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams' address was one of felicitation to the various societies. She extolled the remarks of Mrs. Keeler and the excellent work being done in Utah stake. Not only here but elsewhere the members of the Relief Society are doing a great work, she said. She expressed an especial appreciation for the support given the General Board and the Magazine. She recalled the words of Mrs. Marriott, in the morning session, to the effect that we should be appreciative of the good our friends do while they are alive instead of letting them pass away apparently unappreciated. President Wells gave a few closing instructions in which she urged the members to remember their spiritual duties, and also to remember that love and charity should be the foundation of all our Relief Society work. OFFICERS' MEETINGS. The two officers' meetings held on Saturday were largely attended. The roll call showed the following representation: Board members, 16; stakes represented, 56 — 35 being represented by presidents, 16 by stake officers, 3 by local officers, and 2 by members. One mission was represented, that of the Northwestern States, by Martha Ballard. The Josepa colony was represented by the Relief Society president of the colony. The annual financial and statistical report of the General Society was read by the General Secretary. This report showed that 264 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the Society is growing and expanding in every direction. During the last year, the number of branches has increased from 748 to 838, and the membership, including the missions, from 36,697 to 37,979, an increase of 1,282 during the last year. Our present membership is made up of officers, 4,758; teachers, 11,354, members 21,867— making a total of 37,979. Reports were given from the various committees as follows: Relief Society Home — Rebecca N. Nibley; Temple and Burial Clothes, Counselor Julina L. Smith; Peace, Emily S. Richards; Nurse School, Phoebe Y. Beattie; Special Missionary Work, Sarah M. McLelland; Magazine, Clarissa S. Williams; Public Health, Alice M. Home; Correlation Committee, Clarissa S. Williams. These reports showed that progress is being maintained in all lines of work and activity. The remaining time of the session was devoted to a lively discussion of various subjects relating to Relief Society work in general. At the department meeting, the work of the various departments of the Society was considered. Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, General Secretary, gave instructions on the compiling of reports, explaining in detail the new report blank. Mrs. Emma A. Empey, General Treasurer, gave instructions as to the handling of funds and the appointment in the different departments. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams explained the lesson work contained in the Guide and announced that suggestions for making out the course of study for next year — especially in the matter of literary work — were desired from the stake officers. The Genealogical Department was represented by Susa Young Gates who gave a complete report of the genealogical work in the various societies. She gave many valuable suggestions as to the preparation of living records. To awaken an interest in the preparation of genealogical records, and to teach the sisters how to prepare their information, are the two important points to be emphasized. Mrs. Alice Merrill Home discussed the art work of the Relief Society. She called upon officers from various parts of the Church to describe beautiful scenes in their locality to furnish an example of what should be encouraged among Relief Society members. She urged her listeners to observe the beautiful in nature, and to encourage all efforts made by artists to express beauty either by chisel, brush or pen. The last report was by Mrs. Janette A. Hyde on insurance. She pointed out the benefits of the insurance department, and explained the different policies which the society is offering. It was suggested by Georgina G. Marriott that all stake presiTHE APRIL CONFERENCE. 265 dents go home with the determination to exert themselves to sell as much insurance as possible. The suggestion was endorsed by Annie W. Clark. Annie W. Clark, in behalf of the visiting members, expressed appreciation to the Board for the generous entertainment given them during the Conference. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings were held at odd hours during the conference to discuss more in detail the following subjects: Art and Architecture, Genealogy and Insurance. Mrs. Alice Merrill Home gave a very able lecture on art. The meeting on Architecture was addressed by Don Carlos Young, Jr., who gave a brief outline of the fundamental principles of architecture, and gave some valuable advice on building a home. At the special meeting on Genealogy, the Genealogical Excursion to California in July was dwelt upon, and the stake presidents were informed that delegates would be invited from each ward and stake to attend. It was also decided to hold a genealogical convention in October, when the usual genealogical classes will be taught. The meeting on Insurance was remarkably well attended, the interest in the insurance movement in the Relief Society was found to be constantly increasing. John D. Giles gave an address, and answered many questions on the subject of insurance. He emphasized the fact that the Relief Society insurance plan is independent of the Beneficial Life Insurance Company. The latter institution simply assuming the responsibility of its risks. Friday evening the General Board gave a Musical in honor of visiting officers at headquarters. There was a fine attendance and the program, which was under the direct charge of Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, was artistic and enjoyable. Light refreshments were served, and a general good time was enjoyed. The following artists assisted on the program: Becky Almond, Evangeline Thomas, Hugh Dougall, John T. Hand, Lizzie Thomas Edward, Amy Farnsworth, Relief Society Ladies' Chorus, Mattie Cozier, Blanche Cozier, Vaughan Clayton, Frank Asper, Skelton's Ladies' String Orchestra. Altogether the conference was voted by all present as the most interesting and profitable one held in many years. Early Development of the Textile Art. COTTON. By Rose H. Widtsoe. One of the many important duties of the woman in the home is the responsibility of purchasing and getting value received for each dollar expended. Many women spend foolishly, and this is due principally to ignorance. Woman should have a knowledge of textiles so that the materials used in the home for clothing and furnishings may be purchased intelligently. This knowledge means a study of the processes of modern manufacture of materials, their physical and chemical properties; and the laws governing the adulterations and fraudulent labeling of the materials. In the present day of high prices and clever adulterations, it is essential that our girls who, sooner or later, must assume the responsibilities of the home, should make a study of these important things. Cotton is the most common and the cheapest of the important fibers, as well as the largest textile industry. It is a vegetable fiber. The cotton is the white, downy covering of the seeds that are borne in the capsule after the bloom has disappeared. Cotton is a native of many countries. Columbus found it growing in the West Indies, and Cortez found it in Peru. Biblical references mention cotton as early as 519 B. C. The United States leads the world in the production of cotton, producing three-fourths of the world's supply. In our own country about 30,000,000 are devoted to cultivation of cotton and about 15,000,000 bales are produced annually, each bale weighing five hundred pounds. The quality of the fiber depends upon the soil and climatic conditions. The best grows in sandy, loamy soil which will retain the proper amount of moisture as well as heat. The value of the cotton fiber depends upon its quality. Strength, length and evenness are affected by the soil and climatic conditions. Over one hundred varieties are known to the agriculturist. A microscopical examination of the cotton fiber shows that a fully developed, ripe fiber has the appearance of a piece of twisted rubber tubing. The twist is of great economic importance, and aids in spinning as well as producing a more elastic fabric. Its length averages one and one-half inches. Unripe fibers do not swell or twist as much, and consequently do not accept the dye as readily. They can be easily distinguished, if used in colored cotton fabrics, and should be noticed, as such unripe fibers are a serious defect in the material. The two best grades of cotton are THE TEXTILE ART. 267 those known as the Nankeen cottons and the Sea Island cotton. In these, the fibers are longer, more elastic and silky. The production, preparation for the market, and the manufacture of cotton fiber into fabrics, is a long and intensely interesting story, but space forbids its publication at this time. The cotton crop is one of the most important crops in the world. This is largely due to the wonderful inventions in cotton machinery during the last three hundred years. Cotton planters prepare their fields in January or February, and plant in April or May, and the picking begins about the middle of August and lasts until December. This is a most anxious period for the farmer. Frosts are most destructive. There are many enemies which the farmer has to fight: the boll weevil, the cotton caterpillar, the bollworm, lice and fungus growth. A large quantity of cotton is destroyed annually in this way. One acre will produce a crop of from three to six hundred pounds of cotton. The cost per pound of growing cotton varies from five to nine cents. The cotton is gathered by young and old, and this is a tedious task. It is picked with the sun upon it, and when exposed to this heat, becomes hard and dry. It is then put in marketable shape in the form of bales and taken to the gin house, where it is cleansed and the seeds removed. Each cotton boll contains thirty to forty seeds and each tiny fiber is attached at one end to a seed. The process of separating seed from fiber is called ginning. Most of the cotton today is ginned by machinery. The primitive hand types are similar to our modern clothes wringer. A woman using this hand machine or "churka gin" could separate three pounds per day at a wage of five cents. With the modern cotton gin, one person can separate five hundred pounds in one hour. All honor to Eli Whitney, the American inventor of the cotton gin, as without this the manufacture of cotton cloth could never have become a great industry. After the cotton is separated from the seed, it is baled, ready for shipping. At the mill, the bale is opened, cleansed from dirt, seeds and stones. The cotton is then carded, which process cleanses still further and lays the fibers parallel. During the carding process also, the short, broken and unripe fibers are removed. Then the cotton goes through the combing machines; then comes the drawing and doubling process, which strengthens the fiber. These long, soft ropes of cotton are next twisted so as they will not break when drawn out into a long fine yarn. This yarn is now ready for spinning, and finally for weaving into the many cotton materials which every girl should know. There are many variations of weave besides the plain weaving, which is the simple alternative of warp and woof, and the Jacquard device for the elaborate pattern or figure-weaving by means of color, as in stripes, checks, or plaids when the color of warp or woof thread is changed. 268 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Plain and fancy twill weaving are produced by harnessing the warp so that the woof threads pass over and under the warp in such a way as to make diagonal ridges across the cloth. The sateen weave is produced by the filling, or woof, passing over more threads than under, this making a smooth surface of the woof. It is very easy in this weave to use a cotton warp and a silk filling, and so produce a satin in which the cotton does not show and which is sometimes represented as all silk, cotton and wool are sometimes so combined as all wool. After the cloth is woven, it must pass through the finishing process before it is ready for commercial use. Before finishing, the cloth is inspected for defects and is then bleached, if it is to be pure white. Starching is often used in finishing. This process weights the cloth and gives firmness for a time, but soon wears away in washing. The cloth is then pressed between rollers to produce a smooth, glazed surface. It is possible to vary this pressing, so as to make various watered and moire effects like silk, which soon wear away. Cotton is also finished to look like silk by a process called mercerization, which is produced by chemical action. The yarn is dipped in a bath of strong caustic soda under tension, and finally washed in water and dilute acid. This gives a lustrous appearance and the yarn feels silky. Mercerized cotton is sometimes used in the adulteration of silk. Cotton can be finished to resemble linen. The yarn is treated to sizing, is twisted more, and in finishing is beaten and pressed so the yarn stands out as linen. Lisle thread, of which gloves and hosiery are made, is often supposed to be linen. This thread is cotton, twisted a great deal, so that the yarn is hard and strong. Cotton can also be made to have the appearance of wool. The Peruvian cotton, of which some hosiery is made, closely resembles wool chenille and velveteen. It is cotton woven in a pile, and cut so as to show the numerous fuzzy ends of the yarn. Printed fabrics like calico and "silkaline" are printed by passing the plain cloth between cylinders on which the design of the pattern desired has been cut out. The printed cloth is then finished so as to fix the dye, and is pressed and ready for market. The uses of cotton yarns are innumerable. The thread industry is one great specialty in itself. The knitting industry converts large quantities of cotton yarn into hosiery and underwear. Tape, belting, braids, binding, shoe and corset laces and other narrow fabrics consume great quantities of the cotton yarn. Lace making, both by hand and by machinery, requires both yarn and thread. Thus we see that the material we consider as common, ordinary cotton has a long and interesting journey from the time it leaves the cotton fields until it is ready to be used in the home. Clothing. June Ideas for Our Daughters and Granddaughters. By The Two Sarahs. Our minds and purposes are so often exercised with the necessary preparation of clothing for our young graduates and brides in this lovely spring season that we give place to an economical and wise discussion of these two points in this Magazine. THE GRADUATE'S DRESS. The sweet girl graduate — how we rejoice with her in her success at this season of the year. Mothers are beginning to plan for the clothing at this important event. It is natural for a parent to want her child to look as well dressed as her neighbors' on this momentous occasion. Where the income is not large, how may she accomplish this without going beyond her means? Let mothers and grandmothers ask themselves these questions: Have I laid away a small amount at the end of each month so as to lighten this expense? Have I had the happy thought to make one piece of dainty underwear during the winter season? And to be prepared for this occasion, have I encouraged my daughter to crochet dainty lace or embroidery to trim a garment, in her spare moments, or have I asked her to deny herself a matinee or moving picture-show, so it will be possible for her to have these necessaries? To avoid making fathers feel they will have to mortgage the home to meet all the demands made upon them, mothers should teach their daughters to be saving and thrifty, by their own example. To be poor is no disgrace, but the heavy weight of debt discourages the best of fathers, and is the real cause of many unhappy homes. There is, as a rule, two occasions in a girl's life, when she feels she is of some consequence. The first, when she graduates. The second, when she becomes a bride. The simplicity of the costume on the first occasion should be pronounced; the extreme dress of some of our young girls is quite unnecessary, and shows lack of judgment and taste. The white wool and cotton voile will laundry well, and sells for 30 cents to $1.00 per yard. It is serviceable and stylish, and may be trimmed with lace insertion. When the insertion is stitched on and the material cut from underneath, it makes an effective and inexpensive trimming. Soft mulls are also effectively used. The 270 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. soft white taffeta girdle, the silk gloves with shoes and hose to match, with the immaculate underwear, the hair dressed simply and girlishly (not bobbed up like that of a woman of fifty), the bright face beaming with intelligence and health — Nature's best gifts, which we are apt to prize the least, all these make an ensemble of youth and beauty that will delight the heart of any mother or grandmother. COST OF GRADUATING DRESS. 5 yards Cotton Voile (30 cents per yard) $1.50 1 bolt insertion 50 yards 2½ yards lace edging 6 inches wide ($.25 per yard) 15 ribbon 50 1 pair hose 50 1 pair shoes, or slippers 2.00 1 pair white gloves 50 THE BRIDE'S TROUSSEAU. $5.65 The preparing of her trousseau should be the most pleasant experience of a girl's life. Much of her individuality, her real self, should be expressed in the creation, execution, and finishing off of these dainty pieces of wearing apparel. How exquisite each one is, especially if the workmanship is of the girl's own hands. Simplicity of style and design will mark the linen clothes, made by a sweet, pure, refined girl. And her conception of all that is lovely and delicate will be evident in the planning, making, and folding away in the chest, of these wonderful creations. A girl will always remember her first article made for the bride-chest. The wise one will follow out the good old English plan, and first prepare her house linen. What a heritage of thrift comes to the girl, whose mother had a goodly supply of beautiful, pure, white, snowy linen to begin her housekeeping with! And with what pride she will treasure a piece of table or bed linen that belonged to her mother's trousseau. The wise mother has a twofold object in view when she says to her young daughter, "Here's some pillow-slips; you may make them, scallop them, and then keep them for your own." Again on her birthday, "Here is a nice piece of linen, when worked, it will make a pretty sideboard scarf and some towels you may embroider." The girl becomes interested, and starts unconsciously to prepare for that great event in her life — marriage. She soon learns to love this beautiful preparatory labor, and makes all kinds of little CLOTHING. 271 sacrifices to purchase and make articles of linen and to obtain material for quilts. The thrifty German fraulein and English maid, have this thought drilled into them early in life; in fact, it is almost a part of their religion, to have a nice lot of linen all prepared by their own hands, when the time comes for them to wed. A bride feels exalted in her home, when she brings to it the actual result of years of labor and thought. Whoever heard of a girl going into this new life, so well equipped, wanting a divorce; such an idea would be absurd! This dwelling upon the hope and ideal of marriage and domestic independence is a sure anchor to a girl's soul. After the linen, comes the underclothes and lingerie. Again, the thoughtful mother aids her girl by suggesting good material, purchased by the bolt, such as longcloth, nainsook, and cambric. Then let the girl buy or design her own patterns. Don't have them too elaborate; it is not good taste. Corsets, hose, shoes and gloves all should be in perfect taste, and like the rest of the trousseau, within the girl's expected income. When actually purchasing the trousseau note these points: For the house dress, use percale — only 25 cents per yard, and 36 inches wide. The linen rick-rack, finishing braid, and narrow colored embroidery are charming for the trimmings of these modest house gowns. MRS. LUCY MACK SMITH CARTER, a Spring Bride of 1915. In the Kitchen Laboratory. PAYING MORE THAN NECESSARY. Article II — (Vegetables.) From about the first of April until the new vegetables are coming in from our own gardens, in June and July, is the most difficult time to keep the grocery bill where it should be, and yet have the family properly nourished. Vegetables shipped here from California, during these months, are altogether too high to be used by people with limited means. For instance, ripe tomatoes at thirty cents per pound, is throwing money away. As they appear in the market, I grant they are tempting; but I am sure you will agree with me, after one has paid the price and carried them home and even dressed them in one's finest mayonnaise, they are as a rule disappointing. At best, tomatoes have very little food value, indeed. They are composed principally of water, and unless they can be produced cheaply, we, who count the pennies, better look some other place for water. Do not misunderstand, nor let me give the impression that tomatoes are of no use; indeed no. But in buying early tomatoes, let us stop and think, am I paying more than necessary? Asparagus at twenty-five and thirty cents per pound is not worth the money. Be patient just a week or so longer, and Utah and Idaho will give you plenty from their soil. And then, as this vegetable gets cheaper, use it frequently. There is not a vegetable so good for cleansing the system as asparagus. If you pay more than necessary, and buy when it is high, the chances are the family will be tired of it long before it is gone. New potatoes is another example of a raise in the grocery bill. While you are waiting for your own garden to ripen, let rice, good dried corn, macaroni, or even bread, take the place of potatoes on the diet. The use of canned vegetables — I refer to those bought at the store — is an expensive habit, although a time-saving one. Economic recipes that give all that is required by the body: RECIPES. Cream of Wheat requires four times its bulk of boiling water. Boil hard five or ten minutes; add salt and then cook in a double boiler six to eight hours. Beef Roulette. Buy a full round steak cut one-half inch IN THE KITCHEN LABORATORY. 273 thick. Remove the bone, and then prepare a dressing as you would for fowls: bread crumbs, onion, salt, pepper; a little sage if desired. Now spread this over the steak; roll and tie. Put into a hot kettle with some fat and sear all over. Add enough water to keep from burning, and cover closely and cook slowly until tender — usually about three and one-half hours. Cream Roll. 3 eggs. ½ c. sugar. ½ c. thin cream or milk. 1 t. lemon. 4 t. baking powder. 3 c. of sifted flour. Beat eggs thoroughly, add sugar, milk, flour, baking powder, flavoring. Bake in a large dripper in quick oven. Have ready a towel wrung from cold water as dry as possible. Invert pan on the towel, and roll the cake immediately. It may be unrolled when cold and filled with any desired filling. Whipped cream is especially nice. SPAGHETTI A LA BICHETTE. One-half lb. of spaghetti One-half can of tomatoes, drain off liquid, or two large, ripe, peeled tomatoes. One-fourth lb. of butter One-half lb. of cheese One-half teaspoon of salt, same of paprika. Cook spaghetti half an hour, then drain in colander ten minutes. Put butter in saucepan and toss the drained spaghetti for five minutes in the butter, stirring constantly. Add tomatoes, paprika and cheese. Stir another five minutes; put all in a granite pan, and set on the upper lid of a hot oven for ten minutes. This makes one of the finest spring dishes ever eaten. OATMEAL AND DATES. Cook oatmeal over night and one-half hour before ready to serve, add stoned dates. RICE WITH TOMATOES AND CHEESE. 1 cup rice. 2 teaspoons salt. ½ cup tomatoes. ¼ t. pepper. ¼ lb. cheese. Wash rice, add it slowly to 5 cups boiling water, salted. Boil 20 to 30 minutes. Evaporate water by leaving it partly covered on a low fire. Add tomatoes strained or unstrained, and pepper. Pour into vegetable dish and grate cheese on top, or put it in alternate layers. Health Department. NERVOUS BREAKDOWN. By Maud Baggarley. The phrase "nervous breakdown" appears with distressing frequency in the annals of sanitariums, health resorts, and hospitals. "Once upon a time" — and not such a long time ago either — "nerves" were supposed to exist only in the imagination of the one afflicted, and the expression, "Oh she only has a nervous trouble," was a very common one indeed. Usually the remark was accompanied by a smile and an uplift of the eyebrows. Eventually, however, physicians were enabled to point out to the laity, the causes underlying certain effects, and after "the fever called living" had produced a larger number of victims of this malady, more than one of the "doubting Thomases" had first-hand information on the subject. Overwork, worry, shock, grief, financial or domestic difficulties, a loss of sleep, a monotonous existence; in short, everything disturbing the functions of brain and nervous systems, results in nerve strain. One must be content to do a reasonable share of the work of earth, and not endeavor to shoulder the weight of the universe. It is well to recall the words of Omar: "When you and I behind the veil are past, Oh, but the long, long, while the world shall last, Which of our coming and departure heeds As the Seven Seas should heed a pebble cast." Learn, then, to heed the warning of taut nerves — lest they snap — since no mortal is exempt from nervous breakdown. It is far from being a luxury of the rich. These warning symptoms are: extreme irritability and consequent loss of color and flesh, lack of interest in the vital things of life, melancholy, and often an inability to sleep. A peculiar phase of this condition is an obstinate constipation. Later the warning symptoms become exaggerated and finally end in total collapse. The mental condition ranges from slight melancholia, accompanied by frequent or persistent hallucinations, to a grave form of insanity. A person exceeding the limit of his strength, using coffee, tea, strychnine or other stimulant, to give them false vigor, HEALTH DEPARTMENT. 275 should engrave upon the tablets of his mind the motto, "Hasten slowly." If given to visualizing trouble and disaster, he should join a "Don't Worry Club." Women are the principal victims of monotony — women of limited mental resources, having too much work — and no recreation— living on isolated ranches. They usually become patients in an insane asylum, and remind one in their listless and hopeless despondency of some wounded, dumb creature, which though denied articulation, proclaims in its eyes the heartlessness of the world's thoughtless neglect. On the first appearance of the danger signals, the sufferer threatened with "nervous breakdown" should have, if possible, a change of scene, food, and associates, for a time, at least. If unable to leave his home or work, he should go to bed early — should be resting, if not sleeping, in a dark room by eight or nine o'clock at night, since rest in the recumbent position, simple, nourishing food, plenty of water, fresh air, sleep, baths — in fact a strict observance of the "Word of Wisdom," are imperative. Study and even reading, except light, entertaining literature, must be suspended. Correspondents must be absolutely forgotten. None save cheerful, hopeful visitors should be tolerated. Massage is an aid to recovery, and electrical treatments are often dangerous. A person having sensible relatives can be given sanitarium treatment in his own home, and thus be spared trouble and expense. There can be no better warning given to one threatened with "nervous breakdown" than the well-known sign displayed at railroad crossings, "Stop! Look! Listen!" DEVICE REMAKES WORN-OUT RUBBER FOOTGEAR. A machine which vulcanizes patches, soles, and heels on worn rubber boots and shoes, making them as waterproof as if they were new, is the invention of an Ohio cobbler. The apparatus is fitted with adjustable arms and forms which may be made to fit into any part of the footwear and hold it firmly in place during the repairing operation. Several pairs may be mended in this way at one time, the addition of a new piece of work to the machine not interrupting that already in progress. With this device, a boot which has suffered the loss of a sole or toe may be made serviceable again by a simple operation. Notes from the Field. Alice Fredericka Smith. We present here the picture and a brief sketch of Miss Alice F. Smith, granddaughter of the Prophet Joseph Smith. These were sent to the Magazine by Sister Mary S. Ellsworth of the Northern States Mission. No doubt the Prophet is rejoicing over this happy conversion, for his great heart was full of loving concern for his family. We, here in Zion, congratulate Sister Alice and bid her welcome to the fold of Christ: Miss Alice Fredericka Smith, of 200 Laflin Street, Chicago, was baptized in the Logan Square Chapel, January 6, 1915. Her father, Frederick Granger Williams Smith, was the second son of the Prophet Joseph Smith and Emma Hale, who were married January 18, 1827, at South Bainbridge, New York. Frederick Smith was born in Kirtland, Ohio, June 20, 1836, and he was married to Anne Mariah Jones sometime in the year 1856, and died April 13, 1862, at Nauvoo, Ill. Her mother Anne Mariah Jones was born April 7, 1841, at Steubenville, Ohio. Sister Alice was born the 27th day of November, 1858, in Nauvoo, Ill. You will see by this that she was only four years old at the death of her father. Her father had charge of the farm owned by the Prophet Joseph, situated about one and a half miles east of Nauvoo, and was well known throughout Hancock county for his fine, blooded horses and stock. After the death of her father, her mother became a nurse in the Civil War and was stationed at Jefferson Barracks, nine miles east of St. Louis, and she served in this capacity until the close of the war, after which she took her child and moved to her old home in Keokuk. Prior to the death of her father, the family lived near Emma Smith, in Nauvoo, and since moving away she has visited her grandmother many times. She remembers her very distinctly for the many acts of kindness to her and to others about her. In April, 1866, her mother married J. W. Creen, in Keokuk. He was in the employ of the United States Express Company, which position he held for fifty-one years, living in Quincy, St. Louis and Chicago. Her mother died October 11, 1901, in Chicago, and is buried in the Forest Home cemetery. Miss Smith has never married, but followed the profession of a nurse, as her mother did, but since the death of her mother, she has remained at home to care for her foster-father. Like her grandfather, the Prophet, she has never joined any church until she MISS ALICE FREDERICKA SMITH. 278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. became a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Some three years ago, she met Apostle John Henry Smith, at the Church on Paulina and Monroe streets, and was so deeply impressed with his whole-souled earnestness and interest in her that she has never forgotten him. She has also met and conversed with President Joseph F. Smith, especially at the dedication of the Logan Square Chapel, in November, 1913. His kindness and deep interest in her has left a lasting impression. She says she will never forget his words to her on that occasion. After speaking to her of the kindly interest he felt for her, he said this: "Remember, Cousin Alice, we in Utah are true blue." Since meeting Apostle John Henry Smith, she has investigated "Mormonism," and today she regrets very much that this great blessing did not come into her life earlier. KEEPING FLIES OUT WITH AN AIR BLAST. The effectiveness of an outwardly directed blast of air in driving flies away from the opening when a door is opened has been pretty well demonstrated, and two interesting devices, one electrical and the other mechanical, have recently been invented for accomplishing this. The electrical device consists of a cylinder containing a series of blower fans operating on the same vertical shaft, and having a vent opposite each fan. At the top is a small electric motor for operating the fans. This cylinder is fixed vertically to the inside door jamb, adjacent to the swinging side of the door, with the vents directed across the door opening. The motor is controlled by a switch at the top of the door frame. As long as the door is closed it bears against the switch and the current is shut off, but the instant this pressure is taken away the current is turned on, the fans are started, and a blast of air is thrown outward and across the opening. The other device is simply an open fan supported at the top of the door on the outside and geared to a small drum. Wound around the drum is a cord which is attached at one end to the door jamb. As the door is opened the drum, and with it the fan, is rotated by the cord and a current of air is thrown outward and away from the opening. This process winds a spring in the drum, and the door is pulled shut, as soon as released, by the action of the spring in the cord. A Prince of Ur. By Homespun. As Abram crossed a side street, some merchants sitting cross-legged in front of their shops in the western bazaars, salaamed to the young man with profound obeisance. "Who may that young sun-god be?" quoth a companion who had only salaamed because his older comrades did the same. The speaker was the new arrival from Damascus, and his rich stores of embroideries were not so curiously wrought as were the quick fancies of his well-trained mind. "That — why that is Prince Abram — that you saw yesterday morning — the richest and most powerful young satrap in this Assyrian plain. As I told thee, he hath spent all his young life with his father's father Shem, in the quiet streets of distant Salem; he is just now returned to Ur. His father is the owner of ships and gold of great ransoms, of nose and ankle ornaments, shawls such as you have never dreamed about for embroidered beauty; jewels so bright and glorious that the vaults beneath the palace walls shine just as bright at midnight stroke as when the sun would light their murky depths." "And is his father's wealth the cause of all your low devotion to this comely youth?" "Nay, Eleazer, we have known his life through good repute and honor his character. All Ur doth this day sing his praise. For if we are so sunk in sense of honor that we know no difference twixt desire and delight, we yet know manliness whene'er we hap upon it. That's rare enough — Elkanah knows — these days of grasping kings and sordid courtiers. We must keep up with them — good Eleazer. So we never scruple to squeeze their money-pouches when we get the chance." "And is that all the reason why you honor Prince Abram?" At that shrewd comment even on his present companions, the elder merchant laughed, and all the wrinkles in his bronze brown skin shaded into deep-cut rivers of glee as he cried — "May the Lord Elkanah Merodach with Libnah and Korash-Ishta reward thee for a brilliant youth to guess at what we would fain conceal from such bright questioning as yours. As the god Korash loves thy soul, we all do him reverence — not for his beauty nor for his wealth alone — for these be men of Assyria who cannot change her customs, nor would they deny nature. I am Javan, from far-off Tarshish. This Abram is a learned man; forsooth, he knows far more about the stars and suns of god-like power 280 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. than even — come close — for I speak this carefully in the open market-place — this Abram hath so much learning in his head that even the Pharaoh hath made him his close friend. And once a year he goeth down to Egypt and sitteth on the throne of Pharaoh to please that crafty monarch, while discoursing loftily of all the hidden truths of Isis and Osiris. This past two years, the king's son Mardon, distant kinsman of Abram hath been dwelling in Terah's palace, stirring up envy, strife, vanity and idolatry. Oh, but Mardon is a smooth blade, tempered and keen, cruel as death. This kingdom of the Assyrians is only half itself, and half the chattel mortgage of the Pharaoh. So you may see that very few of those who dwell in Ur of Chaldea can afford to offend this learned youth, long known as the Nameless Prince, the friend of Pharaoh and Prince of Ur in his own right." The Damascus merchant was silent. He had marked the high purpose, the clear and beautiful brown eye, the firm chin and the exalted beauty of that kingly form and countenance, and his heart was stirred within him with profound emotion. He was quite persuaded that no one who ever came into the Prince Abram's presence could escape the same thrill of reverent admiration. Envy might seek to slay, but even envy looked into the face of Abram with that veneration that Abram looked upward into the eyes of the stars. As the ponderous gate of his father's palace wall shut on its hinges, Abram turned to find a charming dark-haired girl crouched low under its archway, her finger on her lip and her glossy hair shrouding her lithe young shoulders like a midnight cloud. He was startled. "Irit," he cried with chiding in his voice; but she flung herself into his arms with a merry shout of elfin glee, and clung to his arms, her own too slight to permit her to clasp them around the neck of her handsome kinsman. "What mischief are you up to now, Irit? It is not seemly for a daughter of the House of Terah to romp and play like rude damsels of the plains. What now — what now?" The girl flung herself from his arms in sudden pouting, but he caught her — as she knew he'd do — and with the kindest touch of brotherly forbearance, he said, — "Little kinswoman, you must learn to know the habits of a princess. It is not seemly thus to scamper. You might find another than a friend when thus you hide in this grim, darkened gate-place to spring upon the unthinking." "I knew 'twas you, dear Abram. My heart is better than any dial to foretell your time of coming and going. Thou hast been home but a day. but a day is a thousand years, sometimes, my kinsman. Why do you chide? If this were Sarai, you'd be more A PRINCE OF UR. 281 gentle, more pleased. She always gets free welcome from everyone— she does — from both eyes and voice, and from glowing cheek of both men and maids. I am not such a child; my heart is big with love. And why you treat me so; I may not even guess." This open acknowledgment was set down to her extreme youth by the grave young man who smoothed her glossy hair and pushed it back with slow caresses from the low and lovely forehead. She was very charming. Like the wayward wind in spring time dawn, or like the opal tints on that famed lake in Babylon's hanging gardens — this child was molded half of fire and half of charm. But she was very vain and wilful also. "I do not please my lord. He does not scruple thus to chide. Yet, if I were only fair and very tall, like Sarai, you'd still forget my wilfulness and blush whenever I might look your way." He put the teasing child away from him. His soul hated the small and carping threads of jealousy which cover up some lovely natures with the film network of diseased selfishness. There was a noble self respect — a half jealous watchfulness of dignity and justice that he himself could understand and do ample reverence to; but the petty mean self-centered thrust of small souls who see no wish but theirs, who fathom no depths but their own shallow desires — this temperament in men or women antagonized Abram. But he would not say so. Least of all, would he wound this trifling, sweet, and charming kinswoman who was thus hurriedly seeking to wind herself into his very life through every witchery known to woman. He strongly suspected that if he would as quickly return her love that she might not be half so complaisant to his wishes. That love denied, she would pursue him with relentless determination to secure it for her prize. Irit knew well that Abram was very rich, and very handsome. They walked onward, the servants preceding Abram with marks of reverent devotion. The couple crossed the gardens, with their hanging vines of purple grapes, the great groves of golden date palms and beautiful acacia trees, the creeping glory of the passion-flowers and the gleaming beauty or hideous malignity of a thousand statues of large and small gods that stood at every turn of the walks. Perfumes from a thousand tropical flowers stole into the nostrils, while overhead a thousand singing birds were flitting in the shade of dark green apricot trees, or twittering low on nests in this the heated even-tide hour. The frown on Abram's brows deepened with every step. "You never bow to Elkanah's image, nor will you even give a glance at Korash in all her naked beauty. What makes you thus, O cousin Abram? Do not these gods deserve our homage? Just in passing, may we not conciliate them a little I know, for Sarai hath told me often enough, how far above them all the great 282 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. God Jehweh is, yet it will surely do no harm to pay a little reverence to the gods who govern all Chaldee." The petty nature of the lovely child, who could not or would not see the depths of the great truth which Sarai had so long tried to teach her — that she nor any descendant of Shem and Eber should give homage to any but the God of heaven — this again roused his soul, and gave him a feeling of profound sadness. He would not even glance her way as she passed each shrine, doing obeisance to each one of those ill-favored gods which looked down from their marbled or stone pedestals with grim ugliness as if they understood the passing contest of wills. "It is no use, my cousin. If our princess Sarai hath tried to show you that the human heart cannot be divided in its reverence, what further success would I meet? If we would worship the God who brought our father Adam here on earth, the God who saved our great father Noah in the ark, we must not worship — nay not one bow at the shrines of other gods. The God of heaven is a jealous God; and He will not brook our half-allegiance. This is quite as much to bless and help us in the fight we wage here on the earth, as it is because He will not tolerate the idol-worship which leads to such licentiousness. You have seen enough of the sinful practices: you have guessed; indeed, have you not visited those courts of idol-worshipers, dear cousin, to view for thine own self the awful orgies of wickedness and sin which mark their yearly festivals?'' The question was a shrewd guess. It hit too near was answer. would not "Well, Abram" — the glancing eyes were very tender in their sophistry, as she looked up innocently at him — "if this is all so evil, why does our father Terah set up these very gods in this our palace gardens?" The blow struck — just where she meant it should, straight to the heart of the man who stood beside her in those shaded gardens on the Assyrian plains. Standing as they did on the high parapet of the garden walls, he could see out over the rich fields and date groves, waving fields and mighty river, and as he noted, the pilgrims who were journeying to and fro below the city walls and as well as in the streets of his own beautiful city, he saw them all pause each time they reached the idols in the city, he saw them all pause each time they reached the idols in the highway, and bow in reverence to the horrid images of wood and stone. His heart grew sick as he realized that the royal dedication of the new temple of Ur was at hand, and he recalled the awful scenes of carnage and sin that would be witnessed in the temple of the highest god, Elkanah. This child, she who seemed so innocent, so guileless, so void of guile; she had thus opened for him a corner of her soul that had best remained hidden. With quick intuition he instantly divined that she had not thus questioned A PRIXCE OF UR. . 283 him from out of her innocency, but purposely to catch him with her guile. Ah, that his great and good father Terah could thus temporize with sin, and give to such babes and sucklings as this lovely child a knife with which to stab himself and Abram! Without a word, Abram gently unloosed the clinging arms of the girl, and with a courtly bow, he turned away and sought the privacy of his own secluded apartments. that "Fool I was," that not he would one word the allow murmured about have girl. "I might of irreverence our known father Terah. Fool I was! My temper and my tongue will yet betray me into deadly sin." Then with a deep sigh she buried her face in her hands, and leaning on the wall of the parapet she cried with bitter sobs. She was suddenly interrupted. A low yet manly voice whispered.— '"What is it, lovely cousin? Who has thus wounded thee? Is it Sarai? How cruel to taunt thee with her lips. But she loves you Irit, she does, for I have heard her say so." The girl turned at the interruption, and she gazed for a moment into the dark thin face beside her with a half mocking smile upon her lips. Yet she said, seriously enough, with a little catch in her breath, begotten of her sobbing, — "My dear cousin Lot, you frighten me. Why do you speak so suddenly in mine ear? I am not crying for Sarai's sake. Nor for any one's. 'Tis only that my favorite maid Orbah hath just now left me for service in the Temple courts. 'Tis true that Mardan hath beguiled her; but that is quite enough. My heart is torn with sadness to part with such a maid. She was very swift and could dress and perfume my dark tresses with a skill that never could be equaled. I miss her so, I miss her so." The proud girl thus covered up her secret-shamed grief, and permitted her cousin Lot to smooth the tresses about which she seemed to grieve so much. His thin face quivered with emotion as he sought to ease her pain. He was not fair-favored and his tall ungainly form often caused this naughty child much mirth as she saw him ambling about the palace walks, or sitting at ease in the council chamber of his fathers. But he was grace and fleetness itself when he strode a horse; and Irit forgave him much for the splendid daring of his charge in battle, and his devotion, nay worship, of her own pretty self. Lot might lack the frank manliness of nature which so well became his elder kinsman, Abram, just returned; but he was true to that which Abram believed, and this would hold Abram and Lot more closely in bonds of friendship than any other bond, throughout the future years. "Come. Irit, be comforted. I will go down into the marketplace myself, and buy you such a maid as will make you soon forget the other trustless wench. Come, dry thy tears. Let us go 284 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. to the palm groves; I have something I would say to thee in that perfume-laden spot. My heart is very full of something that I fain would breathe to thee," Irit could well afford to listen to any unguarded word of love from her dear cousin Abram; but when another spoke she was quite able to retreat into the wounded dignity of the oriental maiden who must be sought through proper channels of courtship and long subtleties of marriage customs in the eastern lands where men first spoke to maidens after Noah's sons had once more peopled all the earth. "Be guarded, O my cousin!" she cried primly. "Remember that thy tongue hath now forgot what is due a princess of the house of Terah. Talk not of light and sinful love to me, who am thy nearest kinswoman." The dark-skinned man beside her flushed with the tartness of her quick rebuke. But he said no more. He was not lacking in a slow and manly dignity of bearing that would not brook too much from any, be he slave, or prince. Just as he turned away, the girl caught his arm and said gaily, — "Don't be wounded, dear, my cousin. I shall listen, mayhap, when the time is ripe. Meanwhile, you must not disturb the dreams of such a child as I am. For there are years and years to come, when you and I may learn to know each other in a new relation." The brown eyes looked shyly from under the penciled brows, and the ripe lips parted in a mischievous smile as she loosed her hold upon his arm. Abram might not be won — but Lot must not be lost. If one should fail — well, who could blame a girl for seeking constantly to find herself a proper mate for life. "Will you coax our father Terah to let me go with the next train to visit at the courts of Ninevah or Babylon? Or better still — why shall we not all go when next the Pharaoh sends for Abram to pay his yearly visit at the city on the Nile? Say, cousin, will you promise me to coax our father thus to honor us? Why should it always be our kinsman Abram, who lives in other lands and he alone to share in these great honors? If Abram were generous, or even just, he would not thus be ever remaining away and leaving us to pine in loneliness." "In loneliness? Why, what makes you speak of loneliness? It does not seem to matter that our father Terah, the princesses Sarai and Iscah, and my humble self, beside the many friends and servants of the palace are left behind? What ails thee, pretty kinswoman?" The girl saw she had gone too far, and so with that quick guile which was so much a part of her, she cried, — "O don't mind me — I am teasing you, to make you say that you will take me, and our kinswoman Sarai to the lovely city of Ninevah for the yearly worship of Merodach." (to be continued.) Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. During the first four months of 1915, 60,000 tons of Canadian made steel rails were brought into the United States duty-free. Canada places a duty of $7.84 per ton on steel rails from this country. Herr Steffens, a German inventor, noting that present European conditions had limited the supply of lubricating oil in Germany, says he has discovered a method of making lubricating oil from molasses. "Sweet are the uses of adversity." Another terrific wind and rain storm took a large toll of deaths and destruction of property in Texas and Oklahoma on April 22. The "valleys of the mountains" are a desirable place of abode when compared with regions which are subject to such disastrous natural disturbances. The exhibition of the moving picture drama "Hypocrites" has been stopped in several States, and properly so. The film was presented in Salt Lake City for a week, without protest. Those who approve as permissible the "nude-in-art" in a moving picture film of an undraped woman show a lamentable lack of knowledge of youthful human nature. French and German antagonists in the European conflict each complain that the others are using nauseating asphyxiating bombs. These may be new to war, but they cannot be said to be more objectionable than the main game. To the neutral spectator it is a pity that the noxious gases do not reach the leaders who are responsible for the war rather than merely to the men in the trenches. Two Arizona officers have been jailed for murder, because one of the men to whom they administered the "third degree" in an effort to compel him to confess to a crime died under the treatment. The "third degree" process frequently applied by sheriffs and police officers to obtain confessions is quickly coming under the ban of an enlightened public sentiment. In an address at Phoenix. Arizona, Vice President Marshall made the statement that the Mormon Church was an efficient organization and that therein "the individual is subservient to the organization." Of course, in the United States and in all governments the individual is necessarily subservient to the organization to an extent that constitutes the public welfare; but a man of such 286 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. prominence as the Vice President of the United States should be possessed of the information that in the Mormon Church the organized supremacy goes no further than the generally recognized line of public welfare. Women of Japan coming to are coming to a recognition entitled of their fair treatment rights, from the stronger sex. Miss Hede Nomaza. after losing her case in two courts, took it to the highest Japanese tribunal, which awarded her $10,000 — a small fortune in Japan — in a suit for breach of promise against a prominent Jap who refused to fulfil his agreement to make her his wife. Evidently the day of women being classed as mere goods and chattels is passing away in the Orient. Nearly nineteen centuries ago the Alan of Nazareth predicted that Jerusalem should "be trodden under the foot of the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled." Now that the notably pure Gentile race known in eastern Europe and western Asia as the Moslems is about to have its power over all Palestine swept away by a race with which the blood of Israel is largely intermingled, this evident fulfilment of the "times of the Gentiles" is full of portent in prophetic history to the present generation of professing Christians. It is to be noted that along an overland air line cutting off Syria and the Holy Land from that part of Turkey immediately south and east of the Turkish capital, the main British forces advancing westward from the Persian Gulf through Mesopotamia and those recently landed in Turkish territory on the shore of the Aegean Sea are scarcely a hundred miles apart. The European war has had a very marked effect in turning the thoughts of the people to the subject of religion. This is noticeably true in France, "in the land of frivolity and gaiety, cynicism and skepticism." It is commonly noted that along the great battle lines men in the trenches are becoming religious where they never thought before of religion. Throughout America, as well as in Europe, there is shown a marked renewal of interest in religion. The situation thus presented affords an opportunity to promulgate the fundamental principles of Christianity as enumerated in the Epistle to the Hebrews, viz.: Faith, Repentance, Baptism, Laying on of Hands, the Resurrection of the Dead, and Eternal Judgment. Not a discussion of alleged "higher criticisms" and theories developed and largely originated by men, nor the beaming platitudes and pedagogical rules of conduct which men formulate to regulate individual conduct, will satisfy. What is needed are gospel truths taught in plainness and simplicity, that men may comprehend these readily and thus come to a knowledge of the divine plan of salvation, as this applies to them directly. Genealogy. Ogden, Utah, March 31, 1915. General Genealogical Committee Relief Society: In reply to your letter of recent date will say: First. We have genealogical committees in all of our ten wards, but they are not permanent. They were organized to meet the requirements of the specific purpose we desired to accomplish. This purpose was the accumulation of material in such shape that it can be used at a future time in compiling a permanent genealogical record of our stake. The Stake Presidency are considering the organization of a permanent Stake Committee. Second. Temple excursions are arranged by the Priesthood and not by the Relief Society. Third. The campaign of record books is in our future plans. Fourth. The Temple funds collected are used for the poor in the wards under the advice of the bishops. Fifth. Note our failures and successes in the enclosed report and the one rendered to you in December. Sixth. Our future plans are being developed. Cannot report on them at present. Respectfully, Vincy R. Barker, Chairman, Gen. Committee. CIRCULAR OF SPECIAL GENEALOGICAL WORK. Ogden Relief Society, Winter 1915. During January, February, and March, the Special Genealogical work must take precedence over every other work except the care of the poor and sick. The purpose is to collect material that can be used later in compiling a permanent Genealogical Record of our stake. To do this, it must be standardized, and this is accomplished by the use of charts and forms prepared for this purpose. Keep close to your bishops and abide by their counsel. It is important that a duplicate copy of work be kept in the home to insure reproduction in case of the loss of one by fire or otherwise. Tell the people that we offer our time and best efforts for three months to accomplish this purpose. We especially urge that you emphasize the procuring of the story of ancestors — who, what and where they were — notable positions held in army, navy, government or church. Also follow outline for Historical Sketch on chart. Give accurate names, dates and places for every event, if possible. 288 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. This is highly important, as this is a new community, peopled under very peculiar circumstances by emigrants from all parts of the globe. We think no other community in the world is made up of people from so many nations and such varied walks in life. Surely we ought to perpetuate in the history of this commonwealth and of the world the identity of our family lines. Remember, we are making history for all future time, and every scrap of genealogical data we can secure will be of untold value to the future generations. Know this, that no time will be more favorable than the present for procuring from our living relatives the information they possess. And now, oh, sisters, do not lose sight of the most important phase of this work, the culmination of all our efforts in the saving of souls. This work will open the door of salvation to thousands of souls, beyond the veil, who are anxiously waiting for Temple ordinances which cannot be performed without records. Many of our own living loved ones are careless and indifferent to the glories of the gospel. Some day they will be reclaimed, but not without the proper records. Shall we, then, neglect the little we can do now to save them hereafter? Shall we fail to record one clue or connecting link that may help another? We are acting under the direction of the presiding authorities of our stake, so let us bend every effort to accomplish the present purpose — the accumulation of material — so that when the time is ripe for compiling a permanent Genealogical Record of our stake, not one person now residing in it shall be left out. We commend all who have faithfully performed their duties in the past and we earnestly pray that during this year each one may labor with even greater zeal that our work may ever tend onward and upward until we reach the goal. May the peace of God be with you. Your sisters, Isabel B. Foulger, Nellie Becraft, Vincy R. Barker, Presidency. REPORT OF SPECIAL GENEALOGICAL WORK OF OGDEN STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY. For Winter 1915, ending March 17. December — Stake Committee organized and developed. January— Ward Committees organized and instructed. Ward divisions made and workers assigned. February and March — Active work in homes. [THIS IS TABLE: A detailed statistical table showing ward-by-ward data for genealogical work including meetings, instruction sessions, and various counts. The table shows data for wards like First and Second, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, North Ogden, Middleton, Eden, Huntsville, Liberty, and Pleasant View with totals at the bottom showing 22876 total names recorded] *Pleasant View and Liberty not reported in full. REPORT OF UTAH STAKE GENEALOGICAL COMMITTEE. We have 19 wards that have genealogical committees; 19 wards that have genealogical classes; 19 wards that have joined in three excursions; 19 have joined in sending $60 to temple for proxy charity work to be done; 19 wards have each some records, in all 460 records have been sold and distributed. Thirty-three Relief Society members belong to the Genealogical Society. We have raised some funds by wholesale purchase and retail sale of records, and blanks; profits being divided between the retail purchaser and genealogical committee. These funds help us to purchase other sheet blanks, etc., for the benefit of our class work, and we keep a surplus in treasury for incidental needs. (Donations to temple are also taken from this amount.) We have been successful in the things we have made practical, and for which we work, work, work. Last summer, we spent one day each week helping individuals start their living records. For this purpose, we ruled paper designating the family tree, and showed each one how to go to work, or rather we helped individuals to fill the actual data in these blanks. This was interesting and helpful. You ask what were our failures? We know no such thing as "fail." We have been discouraged some times at having to repeat so much, but persistence usually wins at last. The plan as you have it in the Magazine should succeed, because it is practice with theory. At present, we have no genealogical chairman in the Stake Committee. Kindest regards, (Signed) Inez Knight Allen. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Home Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. JUNE, 1915. No. 6. THE BATTLE OF WILLS. The awful and destructive war now waging in Europe does not lessen with the passing of time. How inscrutable are the problems which politics, religion and the love of conquest, force upon the human mind! How bitter are the contests which arise over these vital forces in the universe about us! Men are tossed upon a raging sea of controversy, their minds having been anchored to some personal or interested rock of division, and woe to all who venture near the perilous storm center. War's Preliminaries. Battles can and do rage as the result of such contentions, the ties of friendship are broken, confidence is shattered, homes are destroyed, and the ravages of war and pestilence sweep over the contesting nations. War ? with ancient or modern implements? death, bleeding wounds, the scream of pain and the howl of revenge ? all these are awful to contemplate and still more terrible to endure. Actual War. Yet actual war is not so agonizing to bear, so cruel to contemplate, nor so destructive to all organized life, as is the battle of wills which precede sanguinary EDITORIAL. 291 conflicts, and which often take the place of more brutal engagements. Conflict of Wills. It is the conflict of opposing wills which sometimes exhausts mothers ? especially when the child is a strong male spirit ? and which renders some homes scenes of constant confusion and contention. The determination to prevail, at any cost, is both the strength and the weakness, the possible salvation, or the possible damnation of each human soul. The War in Heaven. There can be little doubt that the titanic conflict in heaven in which Lucifer led the warring third of heaven's sons, was fought, not with sticks and staves, nor with swords or guns, but with the superhuman will marshaled against divine will. Every trick and artifice, every subtle advantage or subtle device was used by the rebellious general who led the third part of heaven's hosts. And what was arrayed against this mighty army? Truth, calm, vigorous truth; reason and pure independence, which lost none of its virility because it was willingly obedient to God's will and plan. Rule or ruin, was the watchword of Lucifer ? these opposed sides strove, suffered, and the final triumph of justice and right was the bulwark of the divine soldiers and followers of Christ. How Long, O Lord, How Long? We who watch this European warfare, wonder how long it will wage, and just how it will terminate. If the issue be continued, the settlement deferred, those who love truth, order and justice, can well afford to wait till the right shall prevail. The spirit of war is surely poured out upon all nations ? our own country has partaken of the spirit of war and the battle of wills has been waging in national politics ? but who can foresee the outcome, nationally, and internationally? Only He who presides over the destinies of nations, and whose hosts are armed with justice and the preparation for peace. HISTORY NOTE. The stakes are to prepare a Stake History, which is, naturally, to be made up of ward histories ? the activities of each particular stake and the wards within that stake. The points noted in the circular letter sent out by the General Historian was only suggestive to stakes regarding points to be noted in their own work. Ward histories should be sent to stake historians; and a good ? not too lengthy ? resume of the stake history should be forwarded to the General Historian. Do not crowd this matter too much, friends and sisters, but be prompt about getting to work. 292 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. NEW BOOKS. Few men have done a greater service to this Church, than has the Church Assistant Historian, Andrew Jenson. Golden facts, silver threads of incidents, pearls of testimony and truth have been gathered from the dusty corners of forgotten things, and have been engraven on the tablets of imperishable history by this indefatigable worker. Two books have lately reached this office by this author; the new edition of the Church Chronology, and the second volume of Latter-day Saints Biographical Encyclopedia. The latter books contain the portraits and sketches of President Emmeline B. Wells, and most of the members of the General Board, together with hundreds of other sketches and pictures of good, faithful men and women, heroes and heroines of this Church. These books should be purchased by all Ward Relief Societies as a necessary part of their ward libraries. There seems to be some misapprehension in regard to the editorial in the May Magazine. It is not the purpose of the General Board to interfere in any way with the observance of Mother's Day. ALABASTER BOXES OF HUMAN SYMPATHY. Do not keep the alabaster boxes of your love and tenderness sealed up until your friends are dead. Fill their lives with sweetness. Speak approving, cheering words, while their ears can hear them, and while their hearts can be thrilled and made happier by them; the kind things you mean to say when they are gone, say before they go. The flowers you mean to send for their coffins, send to brighten and sweeten their homes before they leave them. If my friends have alabaster boxes laid away, full of fragrant perfumes of sympathy and affection, which they intend to break over my dead body, I would rather they would bring them out in my weary and troubled hours, and open them, that I may be refreshed and cheered by them while I need them. I would rather have a plain coffin without a flower, a funeral without a eulogy, than a life without the sweetness of love and sympathy. Let us learn to anoint our friends beforehand for their burial. Post-mortem kindness does not cheer the burdened spirit. Flowers on the coffin cast no fragrance backward over the weary way. ? Published in London by Partridge & Co. Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. Lesson II ? The Laying on of Hands. (a) The fourth principle of the gospel. (b) The Holy Ghost. (c) Baptism of the Spirit. (d) Baptism, a symbol of creation. (e) Fire and the Holy Ghost. QUESTIONS. 1. Who are eligible to the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost? Doc. and Cov. 35:5, 6; Doc. and Cov. 14:8. 2. What is the nature of the Holy Ghost? Doc. and Cov. 130:22. 3. What does Jesus say of the Holy Ghost? John 14:16, 26; John 16:7; John 15:26; John 7:39; Luke 12:12. The Laying On of Hands. ? The laying on of hands is the divinely-authorized method of administering spirit baptism, in other words, imparting the Holy Ghost. It is plainly taught in the scriptures. For instance: "Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost." "And when Simon saw that through the laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money. "Saying, Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands, he may receive the Holy Ghost." ? (Acts 8:17-19.) The laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost was an ordinance in the Christian church for centuries. The ordinance remained with the church much longer than did the Holy Ghost. Cyprian mentions it in the third century; Augustine in the fourth. Gradually, however, it began to be neglected, until finally some of the sects repudiated it, while others, retaining the "form of godliness," denied "the power thereof." 294 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. So much stress having been laid upon immersion, as the proper mode of baptism, one might be led to inquire, why are we not immersed in the Spirit, as well as in the water? I answer: How know you that we are not? To which the reply may be: We see the water, and are put under it by the priest; but when we are confirmed or baptized with the Spirit, the elders lay their hands upon our heads and say, "Receive ye the Holy Ghost." There is no immersion about that; we are not dipped or plunged: The Spirit is poured upon us. Be not too sure that there is no immersion about it. The fact that you do not see it is no conclusive argument against the proposition. We see the water because it is a temporal element; but spiritual things are discerned by the Spirit. As to the pouring process ? may not enough of an element be poured upon a person to bury him therein? Or must that in which a person is buried necessarily come from beneath? It was not so in the days of Noah, when it rained forty days and forty nights that the earth might be buried in water. As much water came from above as from beneath at that time. John the Baptist, when proclaiming the Christ, said: "There cometh One mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. I indeed have baptized you with water; but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost" (Mark 1:7, 8). More than one baptism is here mentioned, but it is baptism in each case; and baptism signifies immersion. The candidate for baptism cannot well be dipped or plunged in the Spirit, since the Spirit is above, while the water is beneath; but he may be covered by or "clothed upon" with the Holy Ghost, nevertheless. The essential point in baptism is not the dipping or plunging, but the burying and bringing forth. Baptism, a Symbol of Creation. ? Baptism symbolizes creation. Earth, created for Adam and his seed, was baptized? "born again" ? for Noah and his posterity. Baptized with water in that day, it will yet be baptized with the Holy Ghost and with fire. The laying on of hands and the descent of the Spirit from above, may possibly typify the glorious baptism that earth will yet undergo, when the Spirit is poured out upon her from on high, and she is covered therewith as completely as with water in the days of Noah. "I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh," said the Lord by the Prophet Joel (2:28). When that prophecy is fulfilled, earth will receive her spirit baptism, and in due time be ready for her baptism of fire. Fire and the Holy Ghost. ? God "dwells in eternal fire" (Joseph Smith's Teachings, p. 82), where no mortal could approach him unconsumed. But mortals may receive the Holy Ghost with safety. Again: the inhabitants of the telestial world receive the Holy Spirit through the ministrations of the terrestrial; GUIDE LESSONS. 295 "but where God and Christ dwell they cannot come, worlds without end." By her fiery baptism, earth will be consumed; her mortal elements will melt with fervent heat, and the purified remains, immortal and in a state of resurrection, will be converted into a celestial sphere, a glorified abode for the righteous. ? From Gospel Themes. Genealogy. Third Week. Lesson III ? Numbering. Numbering names, in preparing genealogical records, is useful as a guide to relationships, and helps to locate the name when taken out on baptismal sheets. Names are numbered consecutively. That is, the first ancestor known would be numbered 1, his wife would be 2, his children, 3, 4, 5, 6, etc. His grandchildren would carry the numbers down, just as far as might be needed. There arises, however, a difficulty, if a child, who was number 3, say, marries, his name must be repeated on the record. For he must appear as the child of his father, then as the father of his children. Thus: 1. John Young 2. Mary Smith CHILDREN X 3. William 4. Mary 5. James 6. Susan 3. William 7. Jane Brown. When William is first numbered as 3, a cross is written by the number to indicate that William appears again as the head of a family. The second time William appears he is given his original number, with a bar above and below, in the pencil note book, and in red ink when the number is repeated in the permanent record. William's wife Jane is numbered 7, as that is the consecutive number, following on down. The Lesson Book contains full instructions on this point. Let the class prepare three generations of their own family names and number them. We suggest that the genealogical committees devote the summer recess months to going about from house to house, instructing the Saints how to prepare records, beginning with the living persons and gradually working back to the ancestors. We have three 296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. sets of blanks which can be purchased, ten cents a dozen, for this purpose, and to aid the students in the genealogical classes. These blanks are issued by the Genealogical Society of Utah, and are the standard forms which we recommend. One is for the living records, the other for general purposes. Home Ethics and Art. ETHICS. Lesson IV ? The Golden Rule. Much needless sorrow and heartache in this world are bred through unkind words or thoughtless speech. At the very best, life is none too easy for most of us mortals. The infant enters this world with a cry; and sorrow and anguish to a certain extent seem to be the portion of mankind. Without doubt, it is part of the great plan for our discipline and development. Bodies, in acquiring their full stature, suffer from growing pains. For the mind to become properly developed, the student must spend many weary hours, and practice great self-denial. To attain spiritual perfection, we must struggle with and overcome the evil tendencies of human nature, restrain the appetites, discipline the body and the mind, and above all things, by first controlling thoughts, learn to control the tongue. "As a man thinketh, so is he," and we cannot speak the thing we do not think or have not thought. Thought is the main spring of action, and thoughts that are good or kind, beget words and deeds that are good and kind. Evil thoughts are the forerunners of evil actions, and so if we would rise above sin, we must think noble thoughts. To think the best of others and to put into hourly practice the wonderful Golden Rule is to come into possession of the very foundation and the structure of ethics. Social form or etiquette may supply superficial ornamentation and grace, perhaps, but the great thing, needful to make life desirable and beautiful, is that great command, "Do unto others as ye would that others should do unto you." That and the command which the Savior designated as the greatest commandment, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind and strength, and thy neighbor as thyself;" those precepts are the very foundation of all beautiful behavior. It was the Savior, too, who made the keen remark, "The tongue is an unruly member." Envy, spite and petty jealousy are the emotions which give rise to so many of the "hateful" little things that are said. And GUIDE LESSONS. 297 the damage done in that light way to reputation and to happiness are sometimes irreparable. When the faults or even the failings of an individual are pointed out, they then seem to stand out more prominently than the virtues. We all cherish ideals of some sort and many people like to idealize their friends. It comes therefore as a shock when the "muck-raker" gets to work and shows how very faulty the idealized one really is. We sigh and think how very faulty is human nature. When this experience has been repeated a few times in life, one begins to look upon all people with more or less suspicion. An artist, not long ago, in talking on art to a roomful of ladies, exhibited some pictures for their consideration. The talk was for general instruction, as to how a person may best view a picture to obtain an appreciation of its good qualities and its defects. One picture was very much admired. The speaker then asked her audience to point out its defects. On second thought, she remarked, "Perhaps I'd better not ask you that, or you might think more about the defects than about the good points, and so your enjoyment would be marred." Involuntarily, the question arose, "Is it not just so in regard to human affairs?" Who, among your acquaintances, are the most charitable towards the shortcomings of other people? Is it not those whose lives are most nearly perfect? They who are striving with all their might to fill their lives with good thoughts and noble deeds have little time or desire to criticize others or hold up their faults for your inspection. Some people are very complimentary to acquaintances, when with them, and quite free in criticism when absent. The knowledge of such behavior comes like a shock to gentle, trustful, and confiding persons. Those who are sensitive to criticism which is given in a carping way, become self-conscious, and are far from being at their best when they feel they are in the presence of critics. Unkind, cutting remarks have positively a deteriorating effect upon certain temperaments; and cloud and gloom may take the place of sunshine and hope. Criticism falls on some sweet natures like blight upon a beautiful plant. Kind words, and a little appreciation, are as helpful and needful to most people as is sunshine to most plants. Happily there are now cults and societies which consider it "bad form" to dwell needlessly upon the faults of people, or upon the gloomy side of life. Relief Society members, as a rule, are among the best women of the earth in observing the principles herein set forth; probably the very best. But we desire to consider any or all of the ques298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. tions of life in a way to be most helpful to ourselves and to others. Note. Let the members be prepared with different quotations on this subject, giving the authorship when possible. QUESTIONS. How may much of the needless sorrow of this world be averted? What is your view as to the meaning of this life? Name some ways of mental growth. Name some ways of spiritual growth. What is it that must precede action? What are the effects of different kinds of thought? What are the fundamental principles of ethics? Give the Bible references to the quotations. What are the emotions which give rise to so many unkind speeches? What effect on the mind has the emphasizing of faults? Give some of the effects of shattered ideals upon the mind. What effect has unkind criticism upon some gentle natures? What kind of people are apt to be most free from giving criticism? Please memorize hymn in the L. D. S. Hymn Book, "Should You Feel Inclined to Censure," etc. ART. Devotees and Their Shrines, 56-63. (a) Tell of Mary Teasdel's life. What sacrifices did she make for the sake of art? Describe her Paris Studios. What is said of her teacher Jas. A. McNeil Whistler? Which picture do you like best? What do you think of the marines? The "Blossoms" and "Street in Normandy?" (b) Tell Rose Hartwell Whitley's ideas of how to begin art study. What are Rose Hartwell's best qualities? To whom belongs her picture shown in our reference books? (c) Describe A. B. Wright's mural decorations in Barratt Hall. Where could you use a mural decoration for a wall in your stake? Where does Wright teach art? (d) What has Myra Sawyer done as an artist? What is a miniature? What other artists paint miniatures? (e) Tell the life story of Lorus Pratt. (f) Read the sketch of Donald Beauregard. Why is his loss so great to Utah? Other Utah Artists will be studied from Devotees and Their Shrines, in the spring of 1916. Hushed was the Evening Hymn. Words by J. D. Burns. Music by Sir Arthur Sullivan. 1. Hushed was the evening hymn, The temple courts were dark; The 2. The old man meek and mild, The priest of Israel slept, His 3. Oh, give me Samuel's ear ? The open ear, O Lord! A lamp was burning dim Before the sacred ark; When suddenly a voice divine Rang through the silence of the shrine. watch the temple child, The little Levite kept, And what from Eli's sense was sealed The Lord to Hannah's son revealed. live and quick to hear Each whisper of Thy word; Like him to answer at Thy call, And to obey Thee first of all. McCONAHAY'S Stock of Cameos said to be one of the largest shown in the country. We welcome the chance McCONAHAY to show them to you. THE JEWELER 64 Main Street $1.00 to $300. Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah ? ? INCORPORATED ? SALT LAKE CITY -UTAH The shoe store for the whole family? and every pair of shoes a "Money Back" quality. SALT LAKE'S LARGEST AND FINEST SHOE STORE All Relief Society Members who study the Art lessons in the guide, need Devotees and Their Shrines to prepare their lessons. Send to this magazine headquarters or Alice Merrill Home, 4 Ostler Court, Salt Lake City. Price $1.25 postpaid. 120 illustrations THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design ? beautiful in finish ? pure and sweet, rich and full in tone ? the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" The Jensen Creamery Company Exists no longer. The Mutual Creamery Company has taken its place. The same high quality products will remain on the market. Continue to ask for "Blanchard" and "Four-in-One" Butters. The Mutual Creamery Co. Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, SALT LAKE CITY UTAH It is the purpose of this Bank at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. Supplies for Temple Uses; Those who desire neat, attractive and moderate-priced articles for rent or purchase, for use in the Temple, should apply to UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Relief Society Headquarters, Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. HOMESEEKERS' EXCURSIONS EAST DECEMBER 19 and 22, 1914 Following low round trip fares will prevail from Salt Lake City: Denver or Colorado Springs $22.50 Omaha or Kansas City 40.00 Memphis 59.85 Chicago 59.72 St. Paul or Minneapolis 53.86 Proportionately low rates from other points on the Oregon Short Line to the foregoing and many other points. See agents for particulars. CITY TICKET OFFICE HOTEL UTAH SALT LAKE CITY UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. 