Vol. II FEBRUARY, 1915 No. 2 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE WHEAT NUMBER ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 29. BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO. NEWS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY OUR DRUG STORE IS COMPLETE PRICES RIGHT We Solicit Your Patronage Prompt Attention to Mail Orders TRY OUR QUICK LUNCH— IT'S DELICIOUS FRESH FLOWERS DAILY The Xmas Store for Men and Boys Choose now while assortments are most complete. Best possible values, of course. UTAH'S GREATEST CLOTHING STORE GARDNER & ADAMS CO. IN THE KEARNS BUILDING We give and redeem Security Vouchers Marion Banks FINE MILLINERY Charlton's HOLIDAY SPECIAL On Our Smart Line of at reasonable Prices SUITS, GOWNS AND WAISTS Have you seen our new handkerchiefs GOODWIN CORSETS and neckwear? This ad. will redeem 10 per cent, on purchases at regular price. 242 SOUTH MAIN STREET CULLEN HOTEL SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH FREE AUTO BUS MEETS ALL TRAINS Fred J. Leonard, Manager RATES One person $L00 per day One person with bath. .$L50 per day Two persons 1.50 per day Two persons with bath. 2.50 per day WE DO NOT RAISE OUR RATES DURING CONFERENCE The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CONTENTS, FEBRUARY, 1915. 
Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Miss Eliza R. Snow Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells Frontispiece 
A Fragment Sarah E. H. Pearson 
The Mission of Saving Grain 47 
Grain Saving in the Relief Society 50 
Give Us This Day Our Daily Bread Alice Merrill Home 59 
Wheat Values ' 65 Prof. F. B. Arnold Genealogy 67 
Clothing for Women The Two Sarahs 69 
A Prince of Ur Homespun 71 
Current Topics James H. Anderson 74
Home Gardening;' 75 Notes from the Field 76 
Editorial 79 Guide Lessons 81 
The Song of the Wheat (Music by Evan Stephens, Words by S. Y. G.) 87 

ADVERTISERS' Patronize DIRECTORY. those who have made it possible for this paper to exist 
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
AMERICAN THEATER BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. 
BUTLER'S BOOTERY, Salt Lake City. CO-OP. 
FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
CULLEN HOTEL. CUTLER'S 36 S. Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City. 
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
GARDNER ADAMS. JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
MARIAN BANKS, Millinery, and CHARLTON'S SUIT & CLOAK CO., 321 
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. South Main, Salt Lake City. 
SCRACE'S BAKERY, 25 S. Main, Salt Lake City. 
S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South Street, Salt Lake City. 
THOMAS, Photographer. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. 
WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. 
RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street Established 1860 * Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS SUCCESSORS TO JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 5 3 years in one location 251-253-255-257 EAST FIRST SOUTH ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
EFFICIENT SERVICE MODERN METHODS COMPLETE EQUIPMENT THE BIGGEST PERMANENT THEATRICAL FEATURE IN THE WEST— THE AMERICAN THEATRE CONCERT ORCHESTRA Under direction of PROF. J. J. McCLELLAN 
The finest pictures and the best music combine to make a wonderful entertainment for the money. 

A FRAGMENT. By Sarah E. Hawley Pearson. In tears and yet in trust we stumble on; One step ahead to know is all we ask; Light for the one day's duties to be done, Strength for the one day's superhuman task. Rest for the weary at its stormy close; Hope for the morrow; peace beyond the strife; With eyes to see beneath the snow the rose; God and each other at the end of life. MRS. ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY MISS ELIZA R. SNOW MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS, STANDING THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. II. FEBRUARY, 1915. No. 2. The Mission of Saving Grain. From Remarks by President Emmeline B. Wells, at the Relief Society Conference, 50 Oct., 1914. At this present time in the history of the world and in the history of our people, it seems necessary to talk about temporal wants, including the saving of grain; and I have been asked before this conference commenced, to speak of the mission given to me in this work. First of all, I want to say that when I was quite a young woman, I was at one time very ill, and Sister Eliza R. Snow came to me. With me was Mother Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who, in connection with another sister, helped to prepare the first woman in the Relief Society for burial, and who was counselor to Emma Smith in the presidency of the Society; she helped to lay out for burial the first sister that died after the Society was organized,— a sister recently from England, whose daughter was one of the wives of President Brigham Young. Sister Eliza was secretary of the first society; and when she administered to me, she gave me a blessing which I wrote down at the time, and she^ said: "You will live to do a work that has never been done by any woman, since the Creation." These were her words. Well, one day toward the end of September, 1876, President Young sent for me to come over to his office. Brother George Reynolds, his private secretary, brought the message. The Exponent office at that time was on the corner where the Alta Club is now, so that I had only a little way to go. When I went over, the president said: "I want to give you a mission; and it is to save grain. The brethren tell me, that the sisters want them to sell the grain to buy bonnets and other finery." In those days we did not wear so many hats, you know, nor silk dresses, silk ribbons, and the like. President Young continued: "I want the sisters to save the grain, and I want to give you a mission. I want you to begin by writing the strongest editorial that you can possibly write upon this subject." 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. I felt very timid, and was just about trembling, when I went to talk the matter over with President Wells. He was sitting out on the porch of his own home where hundreds of you have seen him, where the Templeton now stands. I told him what President Young had said, and added: "You will have to help me." He replied, "I am not going to help you; you can do it yourself." I will say, though, that I went first to Sister Eliza R. Snow; and she said she couldn't help me, — it was given to me to do. Finally President Wells consented that after I wrote the editorial, he would look over it. And this is the way the grain movement started among the Relief Societies. We began that very year, and though we were laughed at, we did buy grain, — the Relief Society did; I did not do it myself — the Relief Society gave money, and grain was bought that year, and stored in President Wells' barn, where the Co-op is now, back of the old home on the corner. We had quite a quantity stored that year; and the sisters also began in the several stakes of Zion that had begun to be organized. I think there were fourteen stakes organized, previous to President Young's death. In all these stakes the sisters began, and that work has been kept up until the present time. Yet we have been ridiculed more over this than over any other one thing in the Relief Society. I think that you can all realize that President Young had the gift of prophecy, that he knew what he was doing, that he knew what he was advising. Further than that, whether or not it was known to him, it was known to the Lord that I would live to the old age I have. At any rate, I have lived to this day to tell you this story about the beginning of the saving of grain, and to counsel you to be diligent this year, not only in saving of wheat, but in the saving of everything else that can be saved and preserved in the way of provisions. I think we all have ribbons enough, may be, to last us for a little while, and scarfs enough, and while perhaps we have not all kinds of clothing enough, we have a "good deal," and we can all do something more for the saving of grain if we do a little less of some other things. For we are not only to save grain, but we are to save everything else that can be kept for a time of need, and take good care of it, and get the best advice we can to help us to do it. The Presidency of the Church will take care of all the grain in the elevators, that the sisters choose to arrange for; and my advice is to buy grain with the money that you have on hand. First of all, you should consult with the presidency of your own stake, and the bishops of the wards, and get such advice from them as they see fit to give. I hope we have not been careless; do try and see what you can save, in the way of grain and other things, and use what money you feel disposed to use for this THE MISSION OF SAVING GRAIN. 49 purpose, by the consent and approval of the authorities of your own stake and your own ward. I think you should have some expert help in buying the grain, because, in the first editorial on the subject, published in the Woman's Exponent, in October, 1876, appears a paragraph which President Young dictated to be added. President Young, George Reynolds and myself, I think, were all who were in the office at that time, all are dead now except myself. President Young dictated and Brother Reynolds wrote that last paragraph in the article that I am speaking about, in which he says: "The brethren are to assist the sisters in this work, both in gathering and preserving the grain," meaning places to put it. I think that he even said, "in building granaries." I hold a receipt from the tithing office here in this city for quite a large quantity of grain that was stored in that early day. Of course, it has been changed over and over again. The receipt is signed by Joseph Kingsbury, who was a clerk of Bishop Hunter's. Bishop Nibley has since seen the receipt and he says that Joseph Kingsbury's name is as good as any bishop's. Now, whether this was the peculiar mission to which Sister Eliza referred in blessing me— that I should live to do a work that had never been done by any woman since the Creation— I may leave you to say. In any event, the work that has been done in the saving of grain is unusual and unique for women. Joseph in Egypt was the only one that saved and stored grain for a great people, so it may be said that Sister Eliza's prophecy has come to pass, as have many other prophecies that she uttered. We add here an interesting extract from the Era, giving the history of the Koford wheat which is now used quite extensively in this state: "In the year 1870, a mound in a field, near Payson, Utah, was excavated by Amasa Potter, an intelligent farmer residing then and now in that town. He found two skeletons, some implements and pottery, and a stone box. In the box were a few grains of wheat Those that were bright he planted, and raised a few head of the wheat. He planted this seed the following season, and raised about a bushel and a half. This was distributed among a few of the farmers, some of it being sent to the Department of Agriculture at Washington, together with the relics which were purchased for the Bureau of Ethnology. The wheat was found to be far superior as dry-land wheat to other varieties, producing, according to the statements of those who experimented with it, about eight bushels to the acre more than any other. — Edward H. Anderson, Editor, Improvement Era, November, 1907. Grain Saving in the Relief Society. The following interesting history of the origin and continuation of the grain movement was prepared, eight years ago, by Sister Annie Wells Cannon, who was Chairman of a Committee appointed by the General Board, in 1906, to do this work. Since that time, this vast store of wheat has been added to until, at the present time, we have 157,000 bushels of wheat on hand, with granaries owned by the Society, valued at over $33,000; while, during the year 1913, $6,000 was received for wheat funds, and $22,000 was received for wheat sold. Wheat is turned over in the bins, and is also sold occasionally at the end of two or three years, and replaced with fresh wheat. Now, more than ever, the sisters engaged in this enterprise should consider the call for saving wheat as that of divine inspiration. We still have with us, as a very precious historical figure, the woman who was chosen by revelation to President Brigham Young, as a leader in this wonderful grain saving movement. Like Joseph of old, she has stood as a beacon light for the women of this people in this glorious work. President Emmeline B. Wells will be 87 years old, on the last day of February, and it is in compliment to this marvelous woman that we have made the February number of our Magazine a special wheat number. The Magazine contains not only this excellent report which follows, but also a full article on wheat and bread from the pen of Mrs. Alice Merrill Home, who is a member of the General Wheat Committee, while other writers treat upon this subject in the various departments of the Magazine. We join with every woman in this Church in saluting our beloved President, on this auspicious occasion, and in offering up our love and gratitude to our Heavenly Father that she is spared to see this day. A day when, no doubt, she will be able to see clearly through the devastating wars which are now raging in Europe, that the mission which was given her, so many years ago, was not in vain. Many hungry babies will be fed, many starving mothers will be rescued, no doubt, through the faithful integrity of President Emmeline B. Wells and her associated sisters in this Society, in saving grain for famine need. The report which was printed in circular form in 1906, follows: GRAIN SAVING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 51 A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE GRAIN STORING BY THE WOMEN OF ZION. Prepared by a Committee of the General Board Appointed by the General President, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. Early in the fall of 1875, President Brigham Young sent for Sister Emmeline B. Wells to come to his office, as he had something important to tell her. Sister Wells was then the associate editor of the Woman's Exponent, and she supposed the question was something relating to her work on the paper. When she met the President, he told her he wanted the women of Zion to begin to save and store grain against a day of famine, and that she was to lead out in this matter, and also through the columns of the Exponent must agitate this question. Following President Young's counsel Mrs. Wells wrote an editorial on this question and published it in the Exponent of October the 15th, 1876. This editorial was submitted to President Young and approved by him, before published. The editorial referred to, entreated the sisters to be in earnest, repeating the counsel of President Young, his warning concerning the time of famine that would one day extend over the land. President Young said the Relief Society and cooperative organizations in which some of the sisters were interested, had means at their disposal from time to time and they could use such means in buying and caring for the grain. He further advised the sisters to enter into such arrangements as are applicable to their circumstances in their various districts and settlements, to build storehouses for the storing of grain in the sections of the country as they shall divide off or apportion to certain localities, also that they solicit donations from their husbands and the brethren to assist them in carrying out this enterprise, both for the building of the storehouses and in obtaining grain to fill them and preserve it for future need. The enterprise thus started was talked about in the different gatherings of the sisters from time to time, both Relief Society and Retrenchment organizations, and the signs of the times at that time seemed to point to a realization of the prophecy of a famine, for the grasshoppers had made great havoc among the farms and fields of the husbandmen, and for two years these little pests nearly devoured all the grain, but the people conquered them and again the harvests were plentiful. On November 1st, 1876, Mrs. Wells published a second article in the Exponent, which like the first one was submitted to and approved by President Young, strongly urging the societies in the different localities to go to work immediately in this matter and send in reports. At this time it was quite evident that decisive steps be taken towards forming an organization for the special purpose of storing grain. Accordingly, at a regular meeting of the Retrenchment Society, in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Rooms, held November 11, 1876, and presided over by Sister Eliza R. Snow in the absence of the President, Sister M. I. Home, all the leading sisters present spoke upon the matter, and by motion of Sister E. R. Snow and the unanimous vote of the meeting, Sister Emmeline B. Wells was appointed chairman of the Central Grain Committee, and she then selected Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Bathsheba W. Smith as her assistants. Elizabeth Howard was made secretary and Priscilla M. Staines, treasurer. At this meeting Sister Snow read a communication from Bishop R. T. Burton in respect to storing the grain in the General Tithing Office, stating that the different wards that have not suitable storehouses could store their grain there, but would be expected to attend to the arrangement themselves, as the hands employed there had no spare time. The Central Committee were supposed to be kept posted in regard to the different ward and branch committees, in order that there might be a concert of action and a complete system of management. At this time it must be understood that the grain storing was not given to the Relief Society, but to all the women of Zion. On November 17th, 1876, a meeting of the Central and Ward grain committees was held in the Social Hall. At this meeting a Central purchasing committee was appointed. The committee were Sisters Elvira S. Barney, Elizabeth Howard and Sarah M. Kimball. The presidents of several Relief Societies spoke, all favoring taking immediate action towards getting grain and learning the best methods of caring for it. The chairman, Mrs. Wells, said Bishop Hunter had told the sisters there would be plenty of room in the Tithing Office for their wheat, both for the Central Committee and the Wards. Sisters E. R. Snow, L. G. Richards and others argued in favor of having all the wheat in bulk and at one place, and under one committee and not in the several wards. Sister Eliza R. Snow addressed this meeting as follows: "It is a very important occasion that has called us together, probably such as never occurred on the earth before. The Lord, through his prophet, has called the mothers of Israel to prepare for a famine, which makes the subject we are called on to discuss a grave one. We are well assured that the time is fast approaching when the Lord will pour out his indignation on the nations, and although we should escape, we will feel the effects in a national capacity. Our hearts must be hard indeed if we will not feel for those who may come to us for help. The Lord showed his servant Joseph that such things would come, and it was of such a nature and so distressing and revolting to humanity to witness, that he asked the Lord to close it up. We can see from what has passed that the predictions of the servant of God have been GRAIN SAVING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 53 fulfilled to the letter. The prophet of today has now called on the women of Zion to purchase and take care of wheat, and I hope we may act with wisdom that the blessing of God may rest upon our labors." Though there was a Central Committee and Central Purchasing Committee, still the several wards were also allowed to have committees, and each ward had the privilege to choose whether to save and store with the Central Committee or by itself. It was reported at this meeting that Manti had already stored about seventy bushels of wheat, and other towns reported a beginning in the matter, while Morgan, Summit and Wasatch counties reported their wheat crop nearly all destroyed by early frosts. Early in the year of 1877 reports came from various wards that grain committees had been organized. These usually consisted of a number of sisters to visit through the ward or settlement and solicit means with which to buy grain, and the ready response made to this call was quite remarkable. Within the first three months Mendon, Wellsville, Riverton, Smithfield, each reported 100 bushels; Mill Creek 100 bushels and $13.00 with which to buy wheat; Gunnison reported 344 bushels and that they had resolved to add weekly to the amount. The Bishops in the different wards loaned the use of bins in their own storehouses until the sisters could build granaries. The Retrenchment organization joined the Relief Society in this movement and even the children helped gather the wheat. 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. At the dedication of the Kaysville Ward Relief Society House, President Daniel H. Wells, in speaking of the work of the sisters in their various duties, said: "To some people it may seem curious to ask the assistance of the sisters in taking measures in the saving and storing of grain. Why should it? Should a famine come, the women would have to suffer hunger as well as the men. In the storing of grain the men have been tried for years, but they have continued to let the grain go. Now we want to see if the sisters will be more successful. It is good to store up for a time of need. It is wisdom that we should treasure up our grain." In April, 1877, the Exponent again published the editorial containing President Young's counsel and advice to the sisters on the grain storing. Also urged the Saints that their prayers might be offered up in behalf of a fruitful year that our harvest would be plentiful. This year, 1877, the sisters not only bought wheat and exchanged the labor of their hands for grain, but after the harvesting went in to the fields in large parties and gleaned, thus very materially increasing the amount of wheat in their storehouses. The Bishop of Gunnison called for volunteers every Sabbath among the brethren to take their teams and carry the sisters to the fields and home again. The gleaning was considered a clear gain and was carried on for some years. During this year the leading sisters in Relief Society work, namely, Sister E. R. Snow, Z. D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells, Sarah M. Kimball, M. I. Home, E. Howard, Phebe Woodruff, Jane S. Richards and others, visited the different wards and settlements throughout the Territory and urged the sisters to be unfaltering in the work, and the columns of the Exponent contained much counsel on this subject. From one article, "To Women's Organizations Interested in Storing Grain," we make the following extract: "It must be understood by all who heed the counsel of President Young in this matter, that the grain is being stored for Zion, that no person, or committee, or president of society, has the right to draw out or dispose of any of it, for any purpose. The design is to secure as much as possible, to garner it carefully and when the right time comes to use it; the proper method of disbursing will be revealed by those who hold in trust for Zion, in as plain and simple a manner as was the counsel to purchase and store it." In August, 1877, President Young died, but his advice was heeded just the same, and on November 17th, the same year, the annual meeting of the Central Grain Committee was held, this time in the Council House. The chairman, Mrs. E. B. Wells, then reported the aggregate amount of grain in good condition stored within the year, since November 17th, 1876, to the present time, November 17th, 1877, as 10,465 bushels. Of this amount GRAIN SAVING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 55 2995½ bushels were gleaned by the sisters, 59 bushels were bought with Sunday eggs saved by the sisters of Deweyville, Box Elder county. Also 7,358 pounds of flour, and cash on hand with which to buy wheat $329.10, besides quilts, carpets, and other products of the sisters' work, which they intend disposing of to buy wheat. Granaries had been built in the 15th and 11th wards of this city. This report included Salt Lake, Utah, Millard, Beaver, Sanpete, Sevier, Summit, Tooele, Davis, Weber, Morgan, Cache and Box Elder counties. There were several settlements not reported. Present at this meeting were President John Taylor, Presiding Bishop Edward Hunter, Sisters E. R. Snow, Bathsheba W. Smith, Phebe Woodruff, Elizabeth A. Whitney, M. I. Home, Z. D. H. Young, E. Howard and a large congregation of women of this city and near localities. Bishop Hunter made the following remarks: "It has been said that bread is the staff of life; when we first came to these valleys, and indeed since then, we have suffered for the want of it. We don't want to go through so severe a trial again; at all times we should have wheat on hand. The Lord has been merciful to us, he has blessed us with much grain and much of it has been wasted, but in the future I hope we will be more careful of what the Lord has so abundantly blessed us with. Our Relief Societies are doing much good. They have saved much suffering and have been a great help to the Bishops. They have the Priesthood, a portion of Priesthood rests upon the sisters. They are doing a good work and particularly the storing of grain is commendable." President Taylor's remarks on this occasion were quite lengthy and full of wise counsel to the sisters on the various lines of their work, but about the grain he spoke as follows: "I consider this gathering and storing of wheat as of great importance. I am pleased to find that you have succeeded as well as you have, yet you have not a great deal, considering the size of the Territory, but you will increase. It puts me in mind of the history of Joseph. It took seven years in that day to prepare for the seven years that were to come. We have not any defined time, but we will have to keep pace with our families, which you know are increasing rapidly. If you sisters can help us and succeed in saving wheat for a case of emergency, it will be one of the greatest acts of statesmanship that could occur. We have been careless, we did not save our wheat as we should have done, and now if the sisters take heed to these things the men will find out that their wives have been wise in doing this thing according to counsel. I am pleased to see that the young ladies are taking an active part in the work." Remarks were also made at this meeting about the gathering 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. and care of the grain by the prominent women present, and the sense of the meeting was that greater exertions should be made the following year, and that the wheat and wheat money should be kept entirely separate from other accounts. Also that the wheat donated should not be taken for building storehouses, but that the brethren should be asked to help in this matter. In 1878 the sisters were advised to plant and store beans as well as wheat, as they were said to be easily raised and harvested and required less care in preserving them, than any other product. They are said to contain more nutriment than any other food, and mice and weevils are never found among them. The Relief Societies who have land at their disposal, where it is not convenient to raise wheat, were advised to plant beans. November 23rd, 1878, the annual grain meeting was held, this time in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Chairman Mrs. E. B. Wells presiding. The report this year was 14,535 bushels of wheat, 1,658 pounds of flour, and seven bushels of oats, added to the report of the previous year made a total of 25,000 bushels of grain. At this time thirteen granaries had been completed by the sisters. November 15th, 1879, the fourth annual grain meeting was held and much of interest about the grain gathering was said by Sisters S. M. Kimball, B. W. Smith, Phebe Woodruff, S. M. Heywood, Sophia Nuttall, Hannah T. King, Prescinda Kimball and others. About this time several settlements sent in reports of granaries built and wheat saved, and gleaned, which had not before reported. At the different stake conferences the sisters received much encouragement from the Presidents of Stakes. At the Jubilee Conference, April, 1880, the sisters voted to loan the wheat to the Bishops for the poor. On this question the sisters were requested to vote first separately. It was the woman's part of the blessing to the poor in the jubilee year, but the Bishops were the responsible parties and gave receipts therefor, with the promise to return the same quantity of wheat to the sisters' keeping. After this step the question often arose, "Can the sisters loan the wheat and receive so much on the bushel?" The question was answered editorially in the Exponent in this way: "Providing the transaction is perfectly just and business-like, it might be done and the store increased, but no such counsel has ever been given by authority, and were the sisters to pursue this course, some unforeseen need might arise, and the wheat be loaned out just when most needed. The counsel at first given and never recalled, was that the wheat was to be kept stored up until GRAIN SAVING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 57 it was called for by the presiding authority of the Church, and it was not proposed to traffic in it." — Ed. May 15, 1881. About the time of the organization of the Mutual Improvement Associations, which embraced the societies known as Retrenchment organizations, the storing of the wheat passed entirely under the management of the Relief Society. The central organization of the Relief Society was effected, or perfected, by President John Taylor, in June, 1880, and our perfect system made this more advisable. Therefore the work of the Central Grain Committee was absorbed by the Relief Society; but each Society was told to have a separate secretary and committee for the grain. This arrangement has since been done away with, and the grain is now classed along with other holdings under one single organization. Doubtless owing to the bins having been opened at the Jubilee time and the loaning of the wheat to the brethren for seed the close care of the grain heretofore maintained was no longer kept, and frequently the sisters were called upon to either loan the wheat or sell it and loan the money to assist in building or repairing ward and stake meeting houses, and for other purposes. The Relief Society feeling this to be an important matter appealed to the First Presidency for advice, and the following was given to them, which resulted in the trusting of the grain to the care of the Relief Society organization as follows: 58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Salt Lake City, July 9th, 1883. "To the Bishops of the Various Wards: "Complaints have reached us to the effect that in some of the wards of the territory a disposition has been manifested by some of the Bishops presiding, to take possession of and disburse the wheat which has been collected by the members of the Relief Society. "This wheat has been collected by the members of this society in the various wards at considerable trouble, and they are the proper custodians thereof, and responsible therefor to the parties from whom it has been obtained. "No Bishop has any right, because of his authority as a presiding officer in the ward, to take possession of this grain. It belongs to the societies who have collected it, and it is their province to dispose of it, for the purpose for which it has been collected, and it should not be appropriated or disposed of by the Bishop for any other object. "John Taylor, "George Q. Cannon, "Joseph F. Smith, "First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." Up to the present time the Relief Society has continued to save grain and build granaries, and our report for the years 1905-6 is as follows: 153,753 bushels and 43 pounds of grain. 15,323 dollars and 7 cents cash. We have no record of the exact number of granaries, but there are many. Sanpete Stake reports that every ward in that stake owns a granary and they have always had a plentiful supply of wheat. While up to the present time no universal famine has come upon the land, there have been instances among our own people where the sisters' grain has been the means of preventing suffering. In Parowan Stake, in 1898, and again in 1901, there was a drought, and the people had no crops. The Relief Society was called upon and opened their granaries and gave out 2,000 bushels of wheat to the people. Respectfully submitted, Annie Wells Cannon, Emily S. Richards, Rebecca E. Little, Harriet B. Harker, Committee. Give Us this Day Our Daily Bread. By Alice Merrill Home. The bread a family eats, indicates not its wealth nor social standing, but rather, the house-mother's power of discrimination, skill and training. Who shall say that the common people are not the best fed? The best loaf comes from the hands of the best cook, other things being equal, but even the best of cooks must fail, having poor flour. President Brigham Young set the women to the task of storing grain that we might supply bread in time of famine or pestilence. We are no longer preaching the storing of wheat only for the quantity obtained, but emphasize also the quality of that wheat. Our Government is assisting us, through education, to understand our larger duty in this regard. The Government has endowed agricultural schools and experiment stations, published bulletins, provided public lectures and demonstrations, to inform us on vital questions which have a bearing upon our life, health, and especially our home-grown products. OUR LARGER DUTY THE BEST LOAF. We, who are actively engaged in storing Relief Society grain should embrace these opportunities to post ourselves on every phase of the wheat and bread question, so that we may not only know how to raise the best grain to produce the best flour, to make the best loaf of bread, but to devote our influence intelligently toward standardization of wheat for the Intermountain States. CULTURE. Good bread-making is not merely a matter of education, for the good bread-maker must not only know how, but must take pride in making the best bread. She should have enough experience to discriminate between success and failure, and she should gain technical knowledge in handling her material. This is culture, and culture is gained in more ways than one. Unlike polish, which may be rubbed on as a sort of veneer, culture unfolds from within. The training in understanding the nature of growing things adds largely to the richness of one's aesthetic nature. In fact, every power of discrimination between the good and bad, the fit and unfit, is culture. When a truth is seized by the individual, that is education; but when it is put into use by the individual, and that operation is repeated enough times to form a habit, it becomes that person's second nature. So that habit lies 60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. at the root of culture quite as much as does education. Through education, we learn the enormous destructive power of filth. But after all, cleanliness — comes not so much from the knowledge of the microbe as from personal effort to banish it from our homes. Intelligent application of our knowledge is the main spring of the great labor that keeps things around us sweet and clean. There is one other great subject on which the question of bread bears, and that is health. Flour consists of five properties — gluten, starch, sugar, fat, and mineral matter. The gluten or protein is the valuable food constituent. It is really the meat in the flour; gluten makes the dough elastic, and the stronger and more elastic the gluten, the better is the flour for bread. The gluten, too, holds the dough together, when gas forms through the action of yeast. The larger the amount of gluten, the more delicious and nutritious is the bread. A MATTER OF HEALTH. Good bread will go much further toward body-building than any other kind of food. One pound of bread — costing about 5 cents — will go as far as two pounds of meat — costing from 30 to 40 cents. This is not true of the poor loaf which comes from the soft wheats which carry a low percentage and poor quality of gluten. "Highest in price, but worth the money," is printed on every sack of the best eastern Turkey-red flour; and the legend From painting by Edwin Evans, belonging to Mr. and Mrs. Heber J. Grant HARVEST FIELD. GIVE US THIS DAY OUR DAILY BREAD. 61 is true, — we are all willing to pay more to get the best bread. To satisfy this growing demand for the best bread, Utah alone imports four hundred carloads of eastern flour annually, there being upwards of 35,000 lbs. to a car. Our Utah millers have become alarmed over this tremendous loss, and are making a great effort to get support from some of the great institutions such as hospitals, hotels, and bakeries, in favor of Utah flour; and in the past two years, by securing the dry-farm Turkey-red wheat for milling, they have succeeded in breaking down the barriers against Utah-Idaho wheat to the extent that they now supply 25% of that good flour. The flour, "highest in price, but worth the money," and this includes our own Turkey-red flour, feels like dry cracker dust. From actual home experience, we have demonstrated that our Turkey-red flour is as good as this best eastern product. Our soft-wheat flour is sold in the South for pastry and cakes, and in other states, such wheat sells for chicken feed. When we know that Utah, Idaho and Arizona can raise the best wheat in the world, we should determine not to halt that possibility. It can only be done by standardizing the winter dry-farm Turkey-red wheat, the only kind our millers recommend for bread. One variety of wheat, though it may not be the best, is superior to a mixture of varieties; for one portion of dough may be light and ready for baking, while the other portions would still be heavy. THE RELIEF SOCIETY A FACTOR IN COMMUNITY ADVANCEMENT. Our scientists, millers, and bakers agree, that the standard wheat must be dry-farm Turkey-red wheat. Our initial step in this movement must be in replacing our stored wheat with this home raised Turkey-red. We will not be content with any short of the best of that product. In selecting wheat for storage, keep in mind that the best Turkey wheat is produced with the least possible moisture. The scientists say that wheat grown without any rain, makes the best flour. For the best results, the grain should be harvested in the driest weather. Many parts of Idaho are adapted to Turkey-red, and it is from Idaho that Utah millers get most of their hard wheat. Why are Idaho farmers more progressive than Utahns? Utah raises the most foolish crop of wheat — dozens of varieties — while without any extra trouble, or cost, they could unite with Arizona and Idaho, and have the best wheat flour in the world. If we could buy seed direct from the Dakotas, where Turkey is the one standard wheat, it could help to rapidly establish our bread on a firm basis. Buyers grade their wheat as hard, semi-hard, and macaroni, according to the percentage of gluten, but the Turkey-red brings 5 cents more per bushel than any other. A 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. practical farmer said yesterday: "Our soft wheats are sold for chicken feed, but are not even recommended for hogs, as it has been demonstrated by experience, that with two hogs weighing exactly the same — the one fed on Turkey-red wheat in a few weeks gained eight pounds over its competitor, and its meat was hard and firm, while that of the other, fed on soft wheats, was flabby and inferior." The Turkey-red wheat should be preferred for a winter wheat because it is harder, much tougher than the soft varieties. It will not winter-kill as do the other wheats when intense cold comes in early winter, before the usual protecting snow blanket has fallen. It is also a great producer. The expert farmer quoted above, last year, raised fifty-three bushels to the acre. He says further, the crop may fall down in yield, but will gain what is lost in weight. The heads are made up of hard, dry kernels, lying close together, the hull is very thin, and the berry, which makes the flour, is extremely large. The dryer the kernel, the more it weighs. Therefore, the dryer the wheat, the greater will be the quantity of flour milled. If this flour pays well in the Dakotas, where their average is less than nine bushels to the acre, what wonderful results could we obtain! Nevada stands first, Utah second, on acreage, and what therefore may we not do with our dryer climate, when this same Turkey-red wheat becomes our standard, as it surely must do eventually, even though the movement be retarded by indifference. A LITTLE HISTORY. Turkey-red wheat was brought to Colorado by a sect called Ammonites. They came from the shores of the Caspian Sea. A few years only passed before this hard, red grain had created a "furore" in that and surrounding states. If we are snail-like in our acceptance of this blessing, we cannot blame our own state agricultural colleges in the west. They are the most up-to-date institutions in the United States, and are making herculean efforts to assist us in this standardization. THE SEED. Take the best seed available, and subject it to a solution of blue vitriol to destroy any harmful germs. Get expert information from the Utah Agricultural College on how much seed to plant per acre. Sowing should be in August, September, and October. THE SOIL. Plowing may be done in fall or spring. The land should be summer-fallowed. The important thing is to follow each rain GIVE US THIS DAY OUR DAILY BREAD. 63 with harrowing, if possible, to form a mulch which conserves the moisture — the hair-like natural ducts, that carry into the air the stored moisture, are thus destroyed. Weeds must not be left to scatter seed on wheat lands. HARVESTING. Turkey-red has a slight disadvantage in being a bearded wheat, which makes it disagreeable to handle; especially if the "header" is used in harvesting. But with the combined header and thresher, this unpleasantness is abolished. But with the latter method, a danger lurks — stacked wheat undergoes a sweating. When the grain is taken directly from the field to the bin, this sweating takes place in the bin. Millers turn over their wheat at least once a month to avert disaster from dampness, with consequent fermentation, mold, or sprouting. They throw in dry, slacked lime, to guard against infection from wheat weevil. More Relief Society wheat has been destroyed from such causes than most of us are willing to admit. Great precaution should be taken for the protection of Relief Society wheat, by replacing every bushel, at least once in two years. "I would recommend," says a practical miller, "a change of wheat every year." Of course, this should not be done before the succeeding crop is assured. The changing of the wheat annually will not only provide a better quality in stock, but will pay as a financial venture, for the Society could arrange to buy when the price is low, and sell when the price is high. DIRECTIONS FOR STORAGE. First, last and always, only Turkey-red winter wheat should be stored. Suggestions: 1. Change wheat at least every other year. 2. Choose all of the wheat from one field. 3. Get the few best acres in one field. 4. Select the wheat that is raised and harvested in the driest weather. Keep your bins dry. 5. If possible, place the wheat in an elevator, or in a steel bin which can be bought with a capacity of about one thousand bushels. 6. Turn the wheat over often to prevent fermentation, etc. 7. Throw dry lime in the bins when necessary. To accomplish all this and store your wheat, you may have to barter and exchange your grain, but when the farmers understand that your effort is to standardize the grain, they will gladly aid you. If you follow these suggestions intelligently, you will not be disappointed with a large shrinkage of your store. 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. SUMMARY OF REPORT OF THE WHEAT COMMITTEE. 1914. General Board of the Relief Society, 1914. The Utah Agricultural College professors agree that Turkey-red is the wheat par excellence in protein qualities and is a great yielder. The Lofthouse and Koford wheats are also excellent varieties, and among dry farmers we find some who prefer one or the other of these wheats to that of Turkey-red; Gold Coin also has many friends. All things considered, however, it cannot be denied that the Turkey-red variety is superior in protein contents; it yields 36.8 per cent against 32.5 for Lofthouse and 31.5 for Koford. The superintendent of Nephi experiment farm gives the following cost of producing wheat on dry farm lands in three counties of Utah: Utah 30 bushels per acre $5.60 Box Elder 25 bushels per acre 5.47 Cache 27 bushels per acre 5.35 Cache 24.6 bushels per acre 5.95 Utah 7,000,000 bushels, average 29.2 bushels per acre Nevada 1,000,000 bushels, average 30.7 bushels per acre Average wheat yield per acre of the United States, 15.1 bushels. Utah ships into the states about 400 cars of flour per year. She exports about 40 per cent of the wheat raised. The United States produced the largest crop of wheat in 1913 —763,000,000 bushels; 1914—892,000,000 bushels. All wheat is tested, the amount of gluten it contains determines the price — it runs from 17 to 40 per cent; the average is about 25 per cent. Wheat seed should be changed once in two years. Where there are no local facilities for storing wheat with safety, arrangements may be made with the Presiding Bishopric. Mrs. E. B. Wells, Chairman. Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, Mrs. Alice M. Home, Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas. Grain Committee. Wheat Values. By Prof. F. R. Arnold, Utah Agricultural College. Wheat has many values. From time immemorial it has furnished us with the staff of life. In the opening years of this century the growing and marketing of wheat furnished Mr. Frank Norris with an epic background for two of the best American novels ever written, The Octopus and The Pit. And here in the State of Utah wheat has a sentimental and economic value that it acquires
nowhere else. The 200,000 bushels stored by the women of the Relief Society in their granaries throughout the state, constitute a community reserve force that should be a source of no small pride to the prudent housewives who have amassed so much wealth through the slow years. This wheat reserve means first to them the trust reposed in them by President Brigham Young. 'T want the sisters to save the wheat," he said. ''They are the careful housewives. The men would speculate with it." And as so the sisters began working faithfully to save the wheat against a time of famine. Every year the famine specter has grown less terrible and threatening but still the saving is going on. In Paradise this year every woman gave a bushel. In Wellsville alone, they now have 4,000 bushels in reserve. Every one who sees the granaries of the wards must think of the loving labor and prudent foresight that have made them possible, since in pioneer times the sisters would often go gleaning themselves to get the precious grain for the store house. Many people argue nowadays that all these stored-up bushels of wheat are just so much unproductive capital. These 200,000 bushels would suffice to plant an equal number of irrigated acres. They would seed twice that number of dry-farm acres, that is, one-fifth of the 2,000,000 undeveloped dry-farm acres of the state. And as dry-farm wheat may produce as high as 62 bushels to the acre, the increase of the Relief Society capital might easily be higher than 1,000 per cent. These economical people also say that war times will soon bring dollar wheat and therefore the Relief Societies have a capital of $200,000. which at six per cent could easily bring in $12,000 yearly for the poor, leaving the capital untouched. All of this is perfectly feasible, but the would-be manipulators of the Relief reserves forget that every business needs a reserve, that Utah communities are business propositions and find in the Relief Society granaries a community fund, a protective fund that is of inestimable value against possible evils. Wheat is not always so easy to come by in spite of the ever multiplying railroads and the ever increasing wheat acreage in the United States and in 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Canada. One summer, six or seven years ago, a Jewish wheat buyer from Boise came into Cache Valley. It was just before the summer harvest and wheat was unpurchasable in Boise. He was surprised to find that the elevators in Cache Valley had wheat in plenty, and when he found they were holding it for the Relief Societies, he exclaimed in genuine extra-Zionic ignorance, "What are Relief Societies?" And on being enlightened, he declared, "They are the grandest institution that ever was. I wish we had them in Boise." And now every time he meets a certain Cache Valley miller storage he inquires conditions of the respectfully the well about Just Relief Societies. now being and he would find no Relief wheat in the elevators, for the order has gone forth for each Society to withdraw its wheat from all possible speculation in the elevators and to guard it carefully in its own ward granary against any possible famine that may result from the European war. In past years it has been found more convenient to handle the grain in the elevators than in the ward granaries, as the wheat has to be "renewed" every two or three years, that is, replaced by fresh grain. In this way the Societies have often sold grain for seed to poor or improvident members of the community but have usually received their wheat back at harvest time with a peck interest per bushel. This there is a certain part of the Utah grain which never gets into the grain exchanges of the eastern cities such as Minneapolis and Chicago, for the marketing of wheat is perfectly organized and in no other commodity does the middleman make so little profit. These big exchanges are like banks. Wheat is always there and buyers prefer to deal with them rather than with the farmer as the exchange assumes all risks and responsibilities. They do permit dealing in futures which the United States government look's upon as legitimate exercise of human ingenuity, leaving it to the 'members of the exchange to guard against the excessive manipulating and cornering of grain by any one member. In most exchanges the majority of the members do not sanction such dealings as they themselves buy grain much as they would buy real estate and wait for a natural, legitimate demand to advance the price. These exchanges get daily and hourly grain news from all over the world, all of which forms a. basis for prices, but it is safe to say that the wheat of the Relief Societies never forms part of the business data of the speculative wheat buying world. Guarded by spiritual protection and by the thrifty economy which has always characterized the men and women of Utah, this wheat reserve is a permanent, increasing guarantee against famine and want, and is also of incalculable value in keeping up that serene peace 'of future is safe mind which comes only to those who know that their Genealogy. In answer to the circular letter sent out by the Genealogical Committee of the General Board, we have received some interesting and suggestive reports. Chief among them is the report from Provo, Utah, which is so excellent and brief that we print it herewith entirely. The Genealogical Committee of that stake, which has been engaged in the cause for several years, has certainly done a remarkable work in this Sister direction. The Committee consisted of Sister Nellie Taylor, Fanny McLain, Sister Inez Knight Allen, and Sister Hickman. There is a new Chairman appointed, as will be seen by the letter sent from that stake. San Luis, Snozvilake, Maricopa Stakes. From San Luis, Snowflake, and Maricopa stakes come excellent reports, considering the distance these stakes are located from headquarters. Mrs. Maria J. Harrison, of Manassa, San Luis stake, tells us that the chief work done by this stake along this line, has been to prepare individual records. No excursions, of course, have been taken to any temple, but they have followed the lessons in the Bulletin, and their principal success has been in awakening an interest in the Society for genealogical work. Sister Harrison reports the need of a teacher to give instructions in that distant in Snowflake stake, Sister Lulu J. Smith says that they have followed the Bulletin lessons very carefully, in every ward, except in the Society which has a number of members who do not belong to the Church. We might suggest to Sister Smith that if the non-members are like most people in the world, they would work harder at genealogy than our own people do. This stake also feels the need of a competent teacher. The Maricopa stake is reported by President Mamie Clark, and Sister Clark has much the same things to say that the other Arizona stakes have said. She remarks that she feels herself that the work is very essential, and that it is a vital part of our religion, but that there is a very small percentage of our sisters writing genealogical records in that stake. We have suggested to all of these stakes that they unite in sending a request to the Genealogical Society of Utah for a good teacher, which would not cost the Relief Society anything, as the Genealogical Society would bear that expense, except for the entertainment of the teacher when in the different stakes. In this way, splendid results can be obtained, and these distant stakes can be reached with a minimum expense to the Genealogical Society itself. 68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. We will give other reports as they come into this office from time to time. Provo, Utah, Dec. 5, 1914. Utah Stake. Dear Sisters: A committee of three members has been appointed in each ward to carry on the genealogical work. These three members from each of twenty-one wards in our Stake meet in a separate section on our Union Meeting day (the second Sunday each month) . At this Union Meeting the lesson for the month is presented by the Stake Committee, and is later presented in the ward by the Ward Committee. We have succeeded in getting good workers, the majority of whom are young women. We need and must have older sisters to preserve the spirit of the work; but younger women are better adapted to the detail work necessary in record keeping. Our greatest difficulty is to get more interested in this line of study, although this department averages well with the others. We have emphasized the family record. We believe in going from the known to the unknown, and if people will arrange what they know, and have it in proper order they have a starting point from which to trace new data. We have in the last year sold and assisted in beginning four hundred and twenty-five of the McAllister Records, and at our monthly Union Meeting a formal report from each ward is given. This report gives the membership, the attendance, whether increase or decrease, the subject discussed, the records being handled, and anything special done in each ward. Our greatest success has been our excursions to the Temple. These have not been regular, so far, a special date being set each time. We have limited each ward to six people for endowment work, with twenty baptisms for the dead, and sometimes it has run over this number. In the last year we have had three excursions to the Temple. Endowment work has been done for four hundred. There have been thirty living families sealed, wives to husbands, and children to parents. The following is the report from one ward: baptisms, two hundred thirty-six; endowments, seventy; sealing, forty, sealing children to parents forty-two. On these excursions the Stake Committee receives all records, and gives out the tickets for the names of the dead, so that individuals go at once to the Meeting Room, and no time is lost in the Recorder's Office at the Temple. Respectfully, Olive S. Bean, Chairman. Clothing for Women. Underwear and Corsets. The Two Sarahs. Why do we wear underwear? As a protection and covering for our bodies. Pure, clean, white underwear is truly an expression of refinement of the highest type, for, "cleanliness is next to godliness." And it should be the pride of every woman's heart be.to have the garments which are hidden just what they should The one-piece garment is most generally worn by us, and should be considered as the most important of all our wearing apparel, and must not be mutilated or changed in any way. Hence, there is a two-fold reason why the purchase of it and the care we take of it should receive our special attention. Cotton is preferable for this garment. The person is fortunate, indeed, who does not have to wear all-wool garments, because of the shrinking qualities of wool when laundered. The cotton ones can be scalded and made perfectly sanitary. The undergarment worn during the day should be removed at night, thoroughly aired and made fresh for the next day, thus removing all chance of unpleasant odor. The skin contains between two and three million pores, all throwing off waste material — two pounds or more a day. By sleeping in the under garments we have worn all day, we absorb into the blood at night all that the skin has worked hard to throw off during the day. In speaking of proper clothing for our protection, a prominent physician was heard to remark that the result of the prevailing fashion among our girls, of being so thinly clad, would be a financial benefit to the doctor, but oh, what a tragedy for the girl. And he asked, "Why don't the mothers assert their rights, take a strong, united stand, and see to it that their daughters dress in keeping with the season, climate and altitude." "If they don't," he said, "the answer to the cry of where are the girls of yesterday will be, they are in the hospital or the cemetery." For our daughters, no article of underwear surpasses m beauty and comfort the combination suit of corset-cover and skirt. For our mothers, the old-fashioned chemise is a very essential article of clothing for women. The high-necked corset cover with the lace or embroidered yoke is quite the thing for women who have been in the Temple to wear. We will find it economical to buy the daisy outing flannel for 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. night gowns; five yards is the amount needed for one gown, and pink is the best color, for it stands the laundering better than blue. Line the yoke with bleach; it wears better. Black woolen tights are a great protection in winter. Slip a piece of elastic through the band for convenience. With this garment, one underskirt is all that is required. A good quality of sateen with silk ruffles make a durable and economical petticoat. Launder your old dress skirts; they make good underskirts, when mended and cleaned, and are neat and economical for the house dress. Buy a good grade of hose for the different seasons. Keep them well darned and gartered. Nothing else wears like the old fashioned hand-knitted stockings made of Germantown wool, like our mothers made for the father and son. An important part of the woman's wardrobe is the corset, or underwaist. Again, I will say, the best is the cheapest; they keep their shape, and can be laundered. For the stout woman the long corset is the most desirable. Medium high bust is a support, as well as a protection. Keep on hand two pairs; one for the house and the other for dress occasions. The large waist being in vogue, the modern corset is less injurious than the old style. The Goodwin make is comfortable for the stout woman. Many wear the H. & W. corset waist; also, the waist girdles often take the place of the corset. Some use heavy canton flannel, underwaists, well boned, for the house, which gives a neat appearance, and they are economical and comfortable. Don't waste money on underwear. Good sense should characterize our choice and use of clothing. Use good material, have your sewing well done, and prettily trimmed, but avoid extravagance and useless expenditure in this as in all other parts of your wardrobe. DAIRYMEN SUFFER HEAVY LOSS IN MILK BOTTLES. Thousands of dollars are lost annually by dairymen through the non-return of milk bottles left with patrons, according to statistics compiled by the Department of Agriculture. In one city alone, in the space of three years, 1,500,000 bottles were rescued from municipal dumps by a milk-bottle clearing house. The average bottle, it is claimed, makes 22 trips before it is lost, which, at a price of 32 cents per bottle, would mean a yearly loss of $5,575 to the dairyman delivering milk to 10,000 customers a day. It is contended that in reality only a few of the bottles are broken, the greater number of them being thrown into ash barrels by persons ignorant of their value. A Prince of Ur. Homespun. CHAPTER I (Continued). As if disdaining to remind his kinsman that he had answered but one portion of his inquiry, the Prince gave signal, and the cavalcade dismounted in the courtyard, and at once there was a medley of confusion as the babble of tongues was unloosed by the absence of their masters. As the Prince turned in the glowing sunlight to gaze about him, his eyes caught the gleam of a bronze figure squatting on a stone pedestal at the entrance to the arsenal. With quick but unhurried steps he gained the spot and gazed in unmixed astonishment upon the huge figure of an Assyrian god, his great shape carved with infinite art, his feet squarely set, his massive arms clasping the lion of the royal Assyrian insignia, the tightly-curled hair and long beard surmounted with the crown of authority. It was indeed the image of Nimrod, rudely lined, and clad in the armor of the Chaldean vesture. "Bring the Lord Mardan to me," commanded Abram; and as that graceful youth salaamed before him, he asked, tensely: "What is the meaning of this graven image of the king of the earth?" "Nothing more and naught less than it seems. It is a graceful compliment from the Captain of the Kings' hosts to the King himself." "Abram looked keenly in the glowing sunlight at the face of Mardan; but so frank and candid a glance of good-will shone from the prominent blue eye that the Prince was again disarmed. With another salute, the kinsmen parted, and with an imperceptible shrug of his elegant shoulders, towards the retreating back of the Prince, Mardan sped away. At that moment the temple bells in the far eastern portion of the city rang out shrilly and musically. Instantly, the inner gates of the palace were thrown wide and from the gardens there streamed a mass of worshipful attendants, officials, and slaves, who bowed as one person first to the great bronze statute of Nimrod, or Merodach, in the center of the courtyard, then rising, they began the morning hymn of praise to the Lord of the Silver Light, and the crowd divided into twelve orderly portions to prostrate themselves at the feet of the twelve gods within the garden enclosure, which now burst upon the sight of Abram with sudden force, as the garden gates were flung wide. He saw and he understood. The choirs sang or chanted: 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. . "Lord of the alabaster house, the lord duly returning, The awarder of kingdoms, thy crescent mighty horned, Who raises himself by humbling the proud — The doom-dealer, shining with rounded orb — " With each phrase, the multitude swayed, rose and bowed again, rearing excited faces and tossing arms to the gods before which they bowed in abject worship. Stunned, horrified, beyond immediate speech, the Prince heard the distant booming of the temple bells, and over his spirit there floated the indescribable incense of swinging censors as a procession of robed priests, with Mardan marching gravely at their head, filled the foreground of this strange picture with a weird, sensuous pagan beauty. There was no time for argument. With one bound, the Prince was towering above them all as he swung up to the throne platform in the inner porch. "Cease this mumming. Depart to your homes, men of Terah, priests after the order of Melchizedek. I, even I, the Prince of Ur, and ruler of this city — in Terah's absence — I command you to cease. Where are my chiefs; seize these priests, these leaders of this pagan rite, bring them to me for instant sentence. I, even I, have returned to the house of my fathers." Instantly, there was a wild hubbub of cries, clashing of swords, curses, the screams of women, and the hoarse commands of the shepherd soldiery as they took under arrest the priestly leaders. Verily, it was time that Abram should return to the home of his father. In the confusion, Mardan escaped. (To he continued.) A COMBINATION GAS AND FIRELESS COOKER. The convenience and economy of the fireless cooker has stimulated inventors to combine in one range, the apparatus for first cooking the food, and heating a retaining compartment, and then, by heavily insulated walls, conserving the heat until the operation is completed. A gas range has been patented which unites these functions in an ingenious manner. One compartment is arranged with gas burners above and below, the heat from which is directed upon thick walls whose outer covering is asbestos or similar non-conducting material. While these burners are turned on, the ventilators are open, and the products of combustion pass out and into the chimney. When the gas is turned off, the ventilators are automatically closed, retaining in the chamber, which now becomes a fireless cooker, all the heat of the previous combustion. — Popular Mechanics Magazine. Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. NATIONAL. Stimulants in National Affairs. — At a convention of representatives of life insurance companies held in New York, December 10, it was shown by carefully collated statistics that habitual users of alcoholic beverages, even to a so-called moderate extent, shortened their lives materially by the habit. Notwithstanding this additional warning to the whisky-tipplers, and to others who cultivate like injurious habits, such as do the cigarette and drug fiends, a widely developed human depravity seems to lead most of them along the same suicidal route, either secretly or openly, as opportunity affords. Careful training in, youth to antagonize those bad habits has proved thus far to be the most effective weapon in destroying this downward tendency. A young man strong in moral habits seldom becomes an old man weakling therein. Panama Canal. — Col. Goethals, American governor of the Panama Canal zone, asked the national authorities at Washington to send three torpedo-boat destroyers to the canal at once, to protect its neutrality. If the United States would protect the neutrality of the Panama Canal a larger naval force than this country now has at its command, for this purpose, will be necessary in times of hostilities between other warring nations whose situation may be such that a disregard of that neutrality might be of advantage to them. R. R. Increase. — Leading government officials are expressing the view that an increase of five per cent in railway rates, granted by the United States Interstate Commerce Commission, will do much to revive business conditions throughout the country; this is a concession of business depression heretofore grudgingly admitted. Mexican Affairs. — Mexican contempt for the United States has been in greater evidence than ever since the formal protests against firing across the American border at Naco, Arizona, were filed with the chiefs of the contending Mexican factions. From present indications, promising alternately quiet and disquiet between the two countries, there is being developed a strong probability that matters will drift along with uncertainty until actual war will threaten seriously before the end of 1915. Our Preparation for War. — Discussion of the prepared74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. ness of the United States for war has been occupying much public attention of late. There is no doubt that this nation is illy-prepared for a death-struggle with any other great nation; neither does there appear to be any particular possible need for such a struggle. A kind Providence has fortified the United States against all other nations to a very great extent, by its location in the middle of the North American continent, stretching from "eastern shore to western sea." A strong growth of militarism in the United States might readily become an internecine menace. Predominance in the arts of peace rather than in the art of war, is vital to the security of the great American Republic; although a fair degree of preparedness for war's emergency cannot be neglected with safety. INTERNATIONAL. The European War. — A truce between the warring nations for Christmas-time would have been a most desirable accomplishment, if there had been any possibility of prolonging it into a lasting peace; but the mere cessation of hostilities for Christmas festivities, then a resumption after the holidays of the murderous work of war, would have savored strongly of the ridiculous. Egypt of Today. — Great Britain's establishment of a protectorate over Egypt and the Soudan is a further extension of the prophecy of Ezekiel made twenty-five centuries ago and in evidence by actual conditions in the land of the Nile, viz.: That idols and images should be eliminated and there should be "no more a prince of the land of Egypt." Under Turkish rule, and for centuries prior thereto, idolatry had been suppressed and' princes of other nations had ruled Egypt. Now that the Briton has taken hold thereof, the continuance of this condition is made more apparently permanent than ever. In connection with this event, it would not be surprising if Palestine should become a British colony as one outcome of the present European war, instead of being a province of Turkey whose doom as a nation of special influence seems to have been sealed. Lord Beaconsfield's dream of Britain being in possession of the Syrian coast, along the eastern limits of the Mediterranean northward from the Suez canal, seems about to be realized, since, in addition to the Soudan and Egypt, Great Britain has taken possession, within the past month, of the greater part of the Sinaitic peninsula, including the Wilderness of the Wanderings. With the Holy Land under British sovereignty, Jerusalem still would be "trodden down of the Gentiles," yet would experience a much longer stride toward its successful re-occupation by the house of Judah than it has known at any one time since the days of the Caesars. Home Gardening. 'There is seed-time and harvest time;" and now is the time to prepare for seed-time. It is very important that you have good seeds to plant. It is the poorest and cheapest economy in the world to plant poor seeds and expect good results in return. Therefore, let us say to you once more, buy the very best seeds on the market. If you have not saved seeds from your own gardens, write at once to some reputable house, get a catalogue and order from them, or some one whom you know to be reliable. By forming neighborhood clubs, you will be able to order a greater variety of larger seeds, and also secure better prices, because of buying in much quantities. In each town or village, there is usually more than one who have made a study of plant life, and can be of great assistance in recommending* to you the kinds of flowers and vegetables most suitable for your own climate and soil; also by referring to the bulletins sent you last year. We wish we could cause sufficient enthusiasm in each section of the country to have a public gathering called to consider the best methods to adopt in securing and utilizing all vacant property, in city or towns. Then, plan to have all this property cultivated, planting either vegetables or flowers, thus creating a spirit of work and pride with the town boys and girls; give them something to occupy their minds and teach them the value of home grown vegetables, and let them realize a very substantial income from a well-tended, cultivated plot of ground. They may be able to supply the town hotel with fresh onions, radishes, beets, carrots, lettuce, etc. Put in a few rows of parsley, early pepper cress, English chives, etc. All these things are hardy and can be planted early and will bring good prices. We often hear the question, "What can I do to earn a by few dollars?" We think we can help you to solve this question our suggestions in this lesson. We must not forget that flowers, too, play a very important part in our garden work to be planned by father and mother, the work executed by brother, and the products of their labor cooked and cared for by sister, thus household, securing the co-operative assistance from each member of the all interested in one common cause, and working for better conditions for the individual, home and town. There are hundreds of women bread-winners who earn money by growing vegetables and flowers to sell. They make it pay, why can't we? to our patrons and readers. Circular No. 16, We recommend to our patrons and readers Circular No. 16, prepared by the Utah Agricultural College, on "Better Seeds," application. Notes from the Field. Northern States Mission. "There are nine organized Relief Societies and eight Mothers' Classes in our mission," writes Sister Mary Smith Ellsworth. "We organized the Mothers' Class at Roseland into a Relief Society, October 29; and on November 8, the Mothers' Classes at Minneapolis and St. Paul, were organized into a Relief Society. There are 156 members in the Relief Society and about the same number in the Mothers' Classes, with an average attendance of 80 per cent. "In the Chicago Relief Society we have total cash on hand, $113; received during the year 1914, $22.35; disbursements for charity during the year, $22.31. One hundred dollars of this amount is in the Zion's Savings & Trust Company, $13.90 is held in the treasury here. "At Flint, Michigan, during 1914: cash received, $24.24; disbursed for charity and books, $14.36, leaving $9.88 in the treasury. They have also 60 quarts of fruit canned and kept in the Society. They have given clothes made over from adult clothes donated by the sisters and one quilt to the poor. "Winnipeg, Canada, cash on hand, January 1914: $18.41; income from donations and the sale of goods, $48.90; disbursements for charity, $13; $16 for material; cash on hand, $38.14. Besides this they have given to the poor, 4 children's dresses, 1 shirt waist, 10 infant dresses, 24 babies' napkins, 1 night robe, 30 garments made, sold and money not collected, 70 yards material on hand, 11 shirt waists made, 8 aprons, 2 knitted woolen skirts, 1 quilt. "The sisters of Winnipeg were preparing for a bazaar, but when war came they dropped all work and study and devoted one-half day each week making hospital shirts for the wounded soldiers; also knitting armlets and socks. The material for this is furnished them by the Industrial Bureau of Winnipeg, and they have become quite well known for the good work they are doing, having completed several dozens of shirts up-to-date. One lady who had never attended a 'Mormon' service, hearing of them, sent to have six shirts cut out by the Relief Society sisters which she took home and made. "Throughout the entire mission, we have studied the Genealogical lesson taking the family records chiefly during this past year, but in the last two or three months we have tried to push the regular genealogy work. In connection with the work in family records, we have followed the Parent and Child, outlined NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 77 by the Sunday School, and it has been a great power for good in every class where it has been studied. "Sisters Bertha Pearson and Zelda Kirkham, at St. Paul; Sisters Tirza Hanson and Fern Green, at Minneapolis; Lucy Baker and Olive Owen, at Springfield; Flora Meyerhoffer and Vera North, at Decatur; Mary Parker and Margaret Meldrum, at Roseland; Cora Boyce and Emma Anderson, at Logan Square; Lua Linton and Delia Peterson, at Indianapolis; Martha E. Bitter and Jane Smith, at Peoria; Elizabeth Berg and Alice Laws, at Detroit, all send in excellent reports of the good that has been accomplished by the Mothers' Classes which they are conducting. "In Minnesota, since they have commenced the study of genealogy, one sister has obtained 100 names, and all of the sisters have secured from twenty to thirty each. Besides this, every one has prepared a family record, and some of the best testimony meetings that I have ever attended have been held in these two cities where they have opened their hearts to this work. One sister, who seemed to feel it was impossible to make a start, was one day cleaning in her attic, and in an old trunk discovered letters that gave her the genealogy of her grandparents. In these two cities the only officer that they had was a secretary of each Mothers' Class. These two sisters, during the year, have never missed one meeting and have always been well prepared with their work. They meet once each week. The meetings have been conducted in the homes of friends as much as possible, and these friends were urged to invite their neighbors to attend the class. Two sisters have been baptized this year resulting from having the meetings held in their homes. "Of the lesson in the outline called, 'Beauties of Motherhood,' one sister made this statement: 'If I had been taught this lesson in my younger days, what a world of sorrow and regret I could have spared myself!' "Sister Bertha Pearson has been a great help to the sisters of these two cities. In her ward, the privilege was given all the girls to study genealogy under the direction of Sister Anna Piercy, but only a few accepted. They felt it was the duty of the older members, but I cannot tell you how much good has been accomplished through Sister Pearson's efforts, and it came to me while visiting there how little we realize how the Lord will open up the way to use us if we but qualify ourselves to be made use of. "In Springfield and Peoria several members have joined the Church by first becoming interested in the Mothers' Class. Sisters Bitter and Smith were given the privilege of speaking at a lodge meeting through one of the members who came to their Mothers' Class, and made many friends by having this experience. The Mothers' Classes are conducted exactly as we conduct our Relief Society. 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Everywhere I have had the privilege of visiting, the sisters have seemed thankful and happy for the visit, and seem willing to do all that we ask of them. They appreciate very much being organized into Societies and enjoy having something definite to work to. Since October 15, Relief Societies have been organized in Roseland, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Grand Rapids, Springfield, Evansville, Indianapolis, and Peoria, and the organizations at Milwaukee, Winnipeg and Bloomington have been visited and the Bloomington society reorganized. "Every Society that I have visited is doing good work — just as good as any at home, I believe. They are all studying, at least one afternoon or evening each week, and in most places one afternoon a month is devoted either to sewing, fancy work or, in the summer months, to taking care of fruit, pickles, etc. "I want to impress upon my sisters at home the great blessings that our Father has given to us. This General Board of the Relief Society has done nobly and well in giving us the beautiful outline contained in the Bulletin. The Bulletin carried with it the true spirit of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. It has opened my mind to many beautiful truths. It has brought peace, comfort and joy to dozens of honest-hearted sisters of the Northern States Mission, and it will be a blessing in the homes of all who will read it with a prayerful heart and follow the inspiration received therefrom. I know that the sisters of the General Board have been called of God to this work. May we give them our earnest and honest support in this great work. May our Father bless them and give them power to teach the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ." "Mary Smith Ellsworth, "Chicago, Ill., Dec. 15, 1914." CEMENT CASKS KEEP WATER COOL WITHOUT ICE. In semiarid regions natives supply themselves with cool water through the use of porous earthen urns which are placed where they are shielded from the sun's rays and at the same time exposed to the action of the breezes. The moisture penetrating through the jars and accumulating on the exterior is evaporated rapidly by the hot winds, and the water within cooled. An adaptation of the same principle is a concrete water tank which may be used conveniently in places where ice is difficult to procure. Because ordinary concrete is porous it serves in this capacity just the same as if it were earthenware. Such a container is particularly suited for use on long golf courses and in harvest fields. EDITORIAL Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Home Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. FEBRUARY, 1915. No. 2. There is no one fact more deeply impressed upon the mind of a philosopher than the combined independence and helplessness of man. His will and Human his partial control of the forces about him, makes Independence. him supremely independent of most earthly conditions; while his natural human limitations make him blindly dependent upon his fellow men and upon the natural forces around him. He can do many great and marvelous things ? build ships, fly in the air, and speak around the earth, and yet, how helpless he is to prevent death or disaster which come to his enterprises by the flit of an eye-lash, or the point of a bodkin. We are told by James (5:16, 17) that "the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much." Divine The power of Elias with the heavens was so great, Aid to that through one sincere prayer, rain ceased for Man. three years; and through his second appeal, the earth was visited plentifully by the rains of heaven. The power of faith is not always manifested in a sudden response to ardent prayer; it is more often shown in the persistent clinging to that prayer, until the desire shall have plowed its deep channel through the convolutions of the human brain, 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. thus becoming a part of the individual. Such persisting faith makes a pathway over which the desired object may travel from heaven to earth. Such was the powerful faith of Joseph, who was sold into Egypt, and Pharaoh believed him through seven years of plenty. How much greater the faith and endurance of one frail woman of modern times have been in the mission of Grain Saving, which was given to President Emmeline B. Wells by Brigham Young over forty years ago! It is not so much that the Relief Society has saved millions of bushels of grain in the last forty years; nor that the California sufferers, the Chinese starving millions, The and our own poor were aided in times of want by Lesson this wonderful movement; it is not so much that Taught. one tender-hearted woman has proved to God and man that she can exercise persistent faith through a long life of disheartening conditions and through years of struggle and sacrifice; it is not that women have gleaned and saved, have bought and sold, have listened and obeyed; nay, it is all these combined which make of the Grain-saving Movement one of the most unique enterprises in this Church. In saving grain, many a woman has saved her own soul through thrift and obedience to the Priesthood. Little children have been taught lessons, not only of thrift and economy, but that larger lesson of obedience to counsel which has grown out of the obedience of mother to the Relief Society President, of Relief Society President to the Prophet of the Lord, and in and through this the obedience of the child to the mother, and of the wife to the husband. We may count the bushels of grain. We may number the years, we may value the wheat in terms of money and weight, but who shall estimate the power and glory of this matchless mission to President Emmeline B. Wells, and her associates, in the Relief Society of this Church? Hats off, ye men, everywhere; stand with bowed heads, ye women, while the little children crowd about your knees to listen in reverent awe to the simple story of a woman who went out harvesting, to glean and to save the wheat that the poor might be fed, and the people learn obedience. Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Lesson II ? The Law of Faith. (a) Faith the First Requirement. (b) Faith is the Foundation of All Righteousness. (c) The Component Parts of Faith. (d) Faith Must be Genuine. QUESTIONS. Which is more important, faith or works? What can you say of the Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine and Covenants? Recite the parable of the mustard seed. What is the difference between credulity and faith? What relation does hope sustain to faith? What can you say of belief? What is the difference between faith and knowledge? What constitutes genuine faith? Repeat the Articles of Faith. The First Requirement. ? Faith, not repentance, is the first requirement of the Gospel. The probable reason why Peter omitted to mention faith at that time, was because he perceived that the multitude already had faith, already believed what he had told them of the crucified Redeemer. Had it been otherwise, they would not have been "pricked in their heart," and would not have anxiously inquired, "What shall we do?" Belief was the first requirement made by the Savior, through his chosen twelve, when he sent them "into all the world" to "preach the gospel to every creature" (Mark 16:16). He declared salvation dependent on faith and works: "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned." For faith is shown by works (James 2:18), and each is dead without the other. The Foundation of All Righteousness. ? Faith, according to the Doctrine and Covenants, is "the first principle in revealed 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. religion, and the foundation of all righteousness." There are few things more lucid in our literature than the Lectures on Faith which form the fore part of that sacred volume ? one of the four doctrinal standards of the Church; the other three being the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and the Pearl of Great Price. (Read Doc. and Cov., Lectures I and II.) Faith Fundamental. ? God made faith the first principle of the gospel, because that is its proper place. It is the bottom round in the ladder of salvation, the first step in the stairway to perfection. "All things are possible to them that believe." "As A Grain of Mustard Seed." ? When the Savior spoke of the faith that "removes mountains," he was not measuring, either satirically or hyperbolically, the quantity of the faith by the size of the mustard seed. He probably meant that if man would obey the divine law given for his government, as faithfully as the mustard seed obeys the divine law given for its government, he would have infinitely more power than he now possesses. How difficult it seems for man, "the noblest work of God," to live in obedience to the highest principles revealed from heaven for his guidance. Yet the earth, we are told, "abideth the law of a celestial kingdom, for it filleth the measure of its creation, and transgresseth not the law" (Doc. and Cov., 88:25). Faith and Credulity. ? Faith, in its incipient stages, may resemble at times mere credulity. The untutored savage who was told by one of the early settlers of New England that if he planted grass seed it would produce gunpowder, believed it, not yet having learned that the white man would lie. He therefore parted with his valuable furs, in exchange for some of the seed, showing that he had faith in the settler's word. But it did not bring the desired result. Faith, to be effectual, must be based upon truth, and though higher than reason, must have a reasonable foundation. The spirit of truth must inspire it. This was not the case with the poor, misguided Indian; he trusted in a falsehood and was deceived. But some good came of it. He ascertained the falsity of the settler's statement. His faith induced him to plant the seed, and though it did not produce gunpowder ? that being contrary to its nature ? it produced a growth of grass ? and a wiser Indian. Possibilities of Faith. ? Had the Indian's faith been properly founded ? had it been a perfect faith, intelligent, rational, heaven-inspired, he could have produced gunpowder or any other commodity from the all-containing elements around him; and that, too, without planting a seed or employing an ordinary process of manufacture. The turning of water into wine, the miraculous feeding of the multitude, the walking upon the waves, the healing of the sick, the raising of the dead, and other wonderful works wrought by the Savior, the apostles, and the ancient prophets ? GUIDE LESSONS. 83 what were they but manifestations of an all-powerful faith, to possess which is to have the power to remove mountains ? without picks and shovels, my skeptical Unitarian to the contrary notwithstanding. Such a faith is not mere credulity; it is a divine energy, operating upon natural laws and by natural processes ? natural, though unknown to "the natural man," and termed by him supernatural. The Universal Mainspring. ? Faith is the beating heart of the universe ? the incentive, the impulse, to all action, the mainspring of all achievement. Nothing was ever accomplished, small or great, commonplace or miraculous, that was not backed up by confidence in some power, human or super-human, that impelled and pushed forward the enterprise. An Impelling Force. ? It was no doubt that drove Columbus across the sea; it was faith ? the impelling force of the Spirit of the Lord (I Nephi 13:12). It was not doubt that nerved the arm and fired the soul of Washington, inducing him and his ragged regiments to fight on through heat, frost, and hunger of seven long years, to win their country's freedom. It was not doubt that inspired Hamilton, Jefferson, Franklin, and the other patriot fathers, to lay broad and deep the foundations of this mighty republic. It is not doubt that has caused nations to rise and flourish, and raised up great men in all ages and in all climes, to teach, toil, and sacrifice for the benefit of mankind. It is faith that does such things. Doubt undoes, or hinders, what faith achieves. The men and women who have moved this world were men and women who believed, who were earnest and sincere, even if in part mistaken. Achievements of Christendom. ? Who can doubt that this same philosophy applies to Christendom and its marvelous achievements, all down the centuries? Is it not faith in the divine Nazarene that has caused Christian nations to thrive, that has enabled Christianity, in spite of its errors, to flourish, to survive the wreck of empires and weather the storms of time? Was not Christ indeed as "lightning out of heaven," sent down to kindle and illumine the world, and has not the world been warmer and brighter for his coming? Is it not the faith of any nation, its trust in and reliance upon some power deemed by it divine, that constitutes its main strength? Faith Must Be Genuine. ? But faith must be genuine. Pretense and formalism will not avail. Hypocrisy is the worst form of unbelief. Honest idolatry is infinitely preferable to dishonest worship. Better burn incense to Diana, believing it to be right, than bow down to Christ in hollow-hearted insincerity. Mighty Rome did not fall, until she had ceased to worship sincerely the gods enshrined within her Pantheon. Glorious Greece did not succumb, until she had proved false to her ancient faith, until her believers had become doubters, until skeptical philosophy had sup84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. planted religious enthusiasm, and the worship of freedom, grace, and beauty had degenerated to unbridled license and groveling sensuality. No nation ever crumbled to ruin until false to itself, false to the true principles of success, the basic one of which is to believe. The Articles of Faith. ? What should Latter-day Saints believe? I can think of no better answer to this question than is contained in the Articles of Faith, formulated by the Prophet Joseph Smith soon after the Church of Christ was organized in this dispensation. See "Articles of Faith." From Gospel Themes. Genealogy. Lesson III ? The Mission and Spirit of Elijah. 1. The promise made in the 4th chapter of Malachi has certainly been fulfilled in these latter days. 2. The world has been industriously carrying forward the work of searching out genealogical records and printing them. 3. Many individuals are thus engaged. The President of the Genealogical Congress to be held in San Francisco, July 26, 1915, reports over 2,000 genealogists and genealogical societies already in touch with this Congress. 4. The parent genealogical society is the New England Historic and Genealogical Society, at No. 9 Ashburton Place, Boston, Mass. This was organized in March, 1844, just after the Prophet revealed the principle of salvation for the dead to the world. Many other such societies have sprung up since that day. 5. We have a Genealogical Society of Utah organized on the 13th of November, 1894, with Apostle Franklin D. Richards, as President. This Society is now presided over by President Anthon H. Lund and President Chas. W. Penrose, as President and Vice-President, and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., as Secretary and Treasurer. A circular will be furnished, on application to this Society, Historian's Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. QUESTIONS. 1. What was the promise made by the Lord as recorded in Malachi, and how does it relate to modern conditions? (Read Chap. 4, Malachi.) 2. Why should the world partake of this spirit of Elias? 3. How many people in your ward are engaged in carrying out this prophecy? GUIDE LESSONS. 85 4. What can you say of the New England Historic and Genealogical Society? (See Lesson Book.) 5. What is the value of our Utah Genealogical Society to you as an individual? to your ward? to your stake? and to the Church? 6. How many in your ward have taken out a membership in this great Society? Home Ethics and Art. ETHICS. Lesson IV ? The Law of Obedience. (a) Obedience to authority is one of the fundamental principles of the Universe. A home filled with unruly children and a disrespectful wife would be one of the most unhappy places in the world. (b) Plants and animals follow with unerring instinct the law of their being. It is given alone to man to obey or to disobey the laws of nature and God. That constitutes his agency. (c) Disobedience to the laws of health entails sickness. Disobedience to the laws of electrical forces may cause instant death. Disobedience to moral requirements result in strife and confusion in the home. (d) Children who abide by the laws and requirements of good homes make orderly and trustworthy citizens. There must be leaders in every community. See that they are chosen for their fitness. (e) Obedience to law is sometimes difficult because it crosses our desires but the consciousness of duty well done should be ample compensation even when there is no further reward. QUESTIONS. 1. What is one of the first lessons a child should learn? 2. Name some of the advantages of learning obedience early in life. 3. Give illustrations from nature of the need of obedience to law. 4. Give illustrations of pernicious effects of disobedience. 5. What allowance does nature make for disobedience to her laws? 6. Relate incidents of punishment for disobedience to her laws. 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. 7. Can order, which is said by a poet to be the first law of heaven, be maintained without obedience? 8. Who should be the leader in the home? 9. What effect will early training in obedience have upon the girl when she becomes a wife? 10. If the husband has been taught to practice obedience, how will his life be affected? 11. Name some of the advantages to children in having parents who have been trained to reverence law and authority. 12. Cite instances of the blessings that followed obedience, as related in the Bible and the Book of Mormon. 13. Discuss ways of making obedience attractive to children. 14. Even when obedience to the law crosses the desires; point out some of the rewards that result from obedience. What do we mean by the expression, "Order of the Priesthood"? ART. Lesson IV ? Art. "Mine eye hath seen all this." ? Words of Christ. (a) Read "At My Easel." What does "To tell it as I see it" mean? What is most beautiful where you live? What does never to dream the stars, mean? Do you look for the beauty in the desert? Do you see and appreciate that wonderful beauty? (b) Study John Hafen's letter. Review John Hafen's life briefly. What does Hafen say of George Inness ? the late American landscape painter? What does the November, 1914, Bulletin say of him? What is said of Whistler by Hafen? John Sargent? What is the real difference between artist and painter? Read or discuss the comparisons drawn between Whistler and Sargent in the October Bulletin. To what does Hafen ascribe his success in art? NOTICE. Subscribers to The Relief Society Magazine will please see that names and post office addresses are written plainly. Any delays in delivery should be reported to this office at once. Many of the subscription lists came in late, and in the hurry to get the first number of the Magazine mailed early, a few mistakes may have occurred; we therefore suggest that any subscriber who had not received the first number of the Magazine will please notify the office at once. THE SONG OF THE WHEAT Lovingly dedicated to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells Words by S. Y. G. Music by Evan Stephens. [Musical notation included with lyrics about wheat, harvest, and gospel themes] HE women of the Relief Society have responded nobly to the appeal for subscriptions to this magazine. Even the missions have taken up the work, the North Western States Mission sending in nearly two hundred paid up subscriptions. This magazine is designed for every officer and member of the society, and hopes to give every subscriber value received in live, up-to-date articles on our work and activities, as well as fiction, poetry and travel articles. Are you a subscriber? If not, why not? THE SONG OF THE WHEAT Lovingly dedicated to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells Words by S. Y Music by Evan Stephens. G. Moderato. mf Cffi* — ■ ^ ^^^m^^mm^^m^i — N- 1 smg the song of the plant - ed wheat, The beat-ti-ful I sing the song of the rip - en'd wheat, The bil-low-ing I sing the song of ihe gar-ner'd wheat, The yel-low-ing, I sigh and mourn for the des - o-late field, That on - ly red I sing, I sing of the gos-pel of truth, The hea-ven ly -A — 1 poco rit. e dim j> _^ _> A ^ i— -I 1,'^— L i^-s I N,— Jv-L — ^. -•^^•— J— — F— •f— f — « ba - by wheat, As it lies in the cold earth's blossoming wheat. With green nodding heads the dry - ing wheat. For it holds both life and car - nage yield; While widows are made and seed of truth, 'Twas sown by a Prophet who «— •— " — * •^<-al — « — F leaves are folded, its soul bos - om deep — Its that wheat whispers low, Both heedless of rain, or the winds ti - ny faith as a part Of the force that lies in its reach the orrphan's cry. And groans of the dy - ing seed might watched it thrive — Who gave his life that the ■0-^ -0- jf^- -^^ .0-^ -0- jaj-^- g- -0-^ a tern, ores 3=ri: -0 — • — \-0—*'0 — 0 — -I 1 1 FF — P— F F ^ — y— a- sleep, A - wait-ing the springtime sunbeams unfurled. To blow; For health and wealth and sue - cess are borne Un the heart; And men must garner that women may eat, So the sky; The bin — N— scythe is empty and the r grows rust, For live. The world needs bread, but the world needs more, The -^- «_« '. ^:^=^ 3.j rit a tem.EEFRAIN. -I — I— 1— I i-p push its way up to the glow - ing world. Then sing th« sickle that swings in the ear - ly morn. Then sing the wide world harvests the ripe ■ en'd wheat. Then sing the war has trampled the wheat in the dust. Then garner the Christ and his message the Pro ■ phetS S bore. Then sing to the I. ._ 4 s ^-^-^ — — A-=N-=] — Ff — P-N— ^ — p.— S 2 yZ — y u 1 1 0 1 «N=^ « ' song of the plant - ed wheat, It follows toe bus - y song of the rip - en'd wheat. The bil - low-ing blossomed song of the garner'd wheat, The yel-low-ing, dry - ing pre - cious, pre-cious wheat. The starv - ing hosts are Lord of the har - vest iield, And pray for the reapers. poco rit. e ores. , 1=™^ -\ N[^ ly ly N-— |- 1^ No drone may sow it or find it wheat; plough. For health and wealth and sue - cess are wheat, For men must gar-ner that women may Go The out and glean that the babes may gaunt. then gos - pel seed shall have might - y y slow and firm. ill brow. eat, sweet- — 'Tis grown by the sweat of man' morn. borne On the sic-kle that swings in the eat, wheat. So harvest the rip - en'd -^ — r want. And store 'gainst their bit - ter m In the souls of the children of men. yield =1: -Si.S.^_^* ^0 0 0 #-^=^H 1, =1: j^^ij^S^ HE women of the Relief Society have responded nobly ^v^K^^ to the appeal for subscriptions to this magazine. Even the ^(r^BS^^ missions have taken up the work, the North Western States 1^^^^:==::=^^ Mission sending in nearly two hundred paid up subscrip- tions. This magazine is designed for every officer and member of the society, and hopes to give every subscriber value received in live, up-to- date articles on our work and activities, as well as fiction, poetry and travel articles. Are you a subscriber? If not, why not? SALT LAKE CITY -UTAH The shoe store for the whole family— and every pair of shoes a "Money Back" quality. SALT LAKE'S LARGEST AND FINEST SHOE STORE Scrace's Bakery and Cafe Fresh Bread, Cakes and Pastry Daily Headquarters for Relief Society Visitors. A Good Place to Eat. E. L. SAUNDERS, Proprietor Peone Wasatch 1230 24 South Main Street THE I purpkoseat the Ban ITof isthis UTAH STATE NATIONAL all times to render; BANK helpful service and SAlTLAKECfTY make the handling \jTAH of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant- UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH. Pre.. When WE Make Your Por- traits, YOU get the Correct What is Home Style, Excellence and Satisfaction Without THE The Thomas SATURDAY Studio NEWS Phone Was. 3491 44MainSt. McCONAHAY'S Stock of Cameos said to be one of the largest shown in the country. We welcome the chance McCONAHAY to show them to you. THE JEWELER 64 Main Street $1.00 to $3.00 Salt Lake City W. N. Williams, Supt. R. N. Wilson, Asst. Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y and Treas. GUARANTEED FURNITURE AT LOWEST PRICES Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT FURNITURE CO-OPNext Door South of Z. C. M. I. CO. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design — beautiful in finish — pure and sweet, rich and full in tone — the Kohler & Campbell piano.at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH' Jensens Butters^^rrt;'!. Honest butters honestly priced! To secure the largest amount of butter satisfaction obtainable,' you must specify there butters. 'Blarchard" is the standard size print. "Four in-One" is four quarter size prints. Your grocer sells both. Jensen Creamery Company Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. School Shoes for Boys They keep the feet warm and dry save unneces- sary suffering and doctor's expense. "MOUNTAINEER" and "THE LEADER" Overalls Don't Rip, are Honestlv Made. R. S. SEAL ON Supplies for Temple POST CARDS Uses Mothers \Mho write to mis- sionary sons, girls who write to Those who desire neat, attrac- sweethearts, school girls who keep mothers posted, send for tive and moderate-priced articles our beautiful Relief Society for rent or purchase, for use in Card; 5 cents each. the Temple, should apply to Address — MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY, Relief Society Headquarters, 180 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. HOME VISITORS' EXCURSIONS EAST DECEMBER 19 and 22, 1914 Following low round trip fares will prevail from Salt Lake City: Denver or Colorado Springs $22.50 Omaha or Kansas City 40.00 Memphis 59.85 Chicago 59.72 St. Paul or Minneapolis 53.86 Proportionately low rates from other points on the Oregon Short Line to the foregoing and many other points. See agents for particulars. CITY TICKET OFFICE HOTEL UTAH SALT LAKE CITY Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of se- curing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Relief Society Housekeepers. Do you want better homes? ATI ENTIO N Brighter children? Then plan to attend the ROUND UP III the UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE January 18th to 30th, Logan Utah Great Agricultural and Economic Lights which will shine there: C. B. SMITH, U. S. Department of Agriculture. Washington, D. C. DR. S. H. BAILEY, Cornell University, Ithica, N. Y. DR. D. A. BRODIE, U. S. Department of Agriculture MRS. NELLIE KEDZIE JONES (Kansas)— Care of Children. MRS. VERNETTA T. MORRIS (Chicago)— Art in the Home