GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 637 struck at his liberty, and banished him to the Isle of Patmos, a place of desolation and loneliness in the Aegean Sea, southwest from Ephesus., His contributions to scripture, though not voluminous, are of high value. The Fourth Gospel has been called the best by capable critics. The epistles of John have been given high place by scriptorians, and the Book of Revelations, with'its historical reach extending back of earth-life, and its prophetic illumniation shining beyond the millennium, is still waiting for interpretation. Questions and Problems 1. In the light of I John, 2:9-11, discuss the following statement: "Jesus loved John, because John loved others." 2. Correlate problem 1 with the following poem: ABOU BEN ADHEM Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase!) Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace, And saw, within the moonlight in his room, Making it rich and like a lily in bloom, An Angel writing in a book of gold: Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold, And to the Presence in the room he said, "What writest thou?" The Vision raised its head, And, with a look made all of sweet accord, Answered, "The names of those who love the Lord." "And is mine one?" said Abou. "Nay, not so," Replied the Angel. Abou spake more low, But cheerily still, and said, "I pray thee, then, Write me as one who loves his fellow-men." The Angel wrote, and vanished. The next night He came again, with a great wakening light, And showed the names whom love of God had blessed, And, Lo! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest! Leigh Hunt. 3. From the presentation of Revelations 12:7-10, show the historic reach of the revelations recorded by John. 4. Point out the prophetic reach of the revelations given to 'John. (See Revelations 21:1-4.) 5. Give evidence that all of the writings of John are not recorded in the Bible. (See Introduction to section 7, Doctrine and Covenants.) 6. On which day of the week were the revelations given to John on the Isle of Patmos? 7. What, of importance, to you, does the cyclopedia tell about the Isle of Patmos? 8. If John was, as some historians think, ten years younger than Jesus, how old was he when called to the apostleship? (Note: The historical quotations in this lesson are from the History of the Christian Church, by Schaff, vol. I.) 
 LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in February) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR FEBRUARY Civic PripE Clean-Home, Clean-Town Campaign (To cover the months of March, April, May, June; ending June 30) Note: As climatic conditions vary in different localities each stake will know best when to initiate the various features of its campaign., I. Stake and ward officers should make campaign plan. II. Relief Society teachers should discuss these plans, as they develop, in the homes they visit. Ill. Suggestions. 1. Types of work which ought to be considered: (a) Cleaning yards, ditches, alleys, streets, by removing such refuse as tin cans, bottles, weeds and trash of all sorts. (b) Giving attention to church grounds, public parks, school grounds, cemeteries, etc. (c) Seeing that all manure is hauled away and corrals and privies cleaned up early, thus destroying breeding places for flies. (d) Improving outside homes, churches, school-houses by painting, repairing, etc. (e) Preparing soil for vegetables, shrubbery and flowers. (f) Planting and gardening. 2. Prizes. Funds might be secured from business men and agencies for prizes to be offered at close of campaign, for special features; for group organizations gathering the largest pile of tin cans; for group gathering largest pile of weeds; for residence having the most attractive surroundings; for street having fewest weeds; for individuals having best shrubbery, best house plants, best cut flowers, etc., etc. IV. References: Relief Society Magazine, April, 1926, "Notes From the Field," Big Horn, Logan, Cache and Malad stakes. Relief Society Magazine, February, 1927, "Notes From the Field," Palmyra stake. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 639 Literature LESSON III (Third Week in February) Epna St, Vincent MauAy Edna St. Vincent Malay has added romance to the deep significance already attached to the 22nd of F ebruary, by virtue of its being the day on which George Washington was born. This will be the February lesson, and it will be given somewhere near the date of Washington's birthday. On that day Miss Malay will be 35 years of age. She not only followed tradition in being born on February 22, but the place of her birth suggests American poetry. She was born in Rockland, Maine, which state reminds us of the birthplace of Henry W. Longfellow. She passed her childhood in New England, where she had her first training. Later she entered ' Vassar college, from which institution she was graduated in 1917. 4 New York is at present her home, and has been since the time; of her graduation. Miss Malay has a musical name. When Mr. Ellsworth, the former reader for the Century Magazine, was visiting Utah last winter, he said he could not repeat her name without desiring to add another line that would rhyme, such as, "Edna St. Vincent Malay, on a lovely Summer's day," etc. It is noticeable that her name is both musical and rhythmical. She is versatile; she writes poetry; has translated several songs; writes plays and takes part as a performer in the plays when written. She has both written and performed for the Provincetown Players. She wrote the outstanding poem of the year 1912, a year which produced a good many lyrics of quality. She was then hardly 19 years of age, but the poem "Renascence" which is her longest, is one of the best poems written by any of the new poets. Her poem, "God's World" is a passion of appreciation for. The beauties of nature. She tells us that the loveliness of Fall has all but drawn her soul from her, and she implores the Creator that to all that there is before her, nothing be added. "Let. Fall no burning leaf; prythee, let no bird call." GOD'S WORLD O World, I cannot hold thee close enough! Thy winds, thy wide grey skies! Thy mists that roll and rise! Thy woods, this autumn day, that ache and sag And all but cry with color! That gaunt crag To crush! To lift the lean of that black bluff! World, World, I cannot get thee close enough! 
 Long have I known a glory in it all, But never knew I this; Here such a passion is As stretcheth me apart. Lord, I do fear ' Thou'st made the world too beautiful this year. My soul is all but out of me,?let fall No burning leaf; prithee, let no bird call. In "The Pear Tree" we 'have a familiar picture. It is the -- dooryard of squalor, where there is little to cheer or make glad, and where untidiness and dirt are everywhere in evidence. The one thing that breaks this sorry sight is a little pear tree, which reminds the poet of "the waste-man's little daughter in her first communion dress." THE PEAR TREE In this squalid, dirty dooryard, Where the chickens scratch and run,. White, incredible, the pear tree Stands apart and takes the sun, Mindful of the eyes upon it, 'Vain of its new holiness, Like the waste-man's little daughter In her first communion dress. Like many other poets she has a deep appreciation for the worth of a good book. Milton has told us that "a good book is the lifeblood of a master spirit, embalmed to a life beyond life." Holmes refers to a librarian as a "sexton of the alcove tombs, where men in leathern cerements lie." In her poem, 'The Poet and His Book," Miss Malay has the same deep appreciation for 'the soul-content of a book as had Milton and Holmes. She asks the question: "When shall I be dead? When my flesh is withered, And above my head Yellow pollen gathered All the empty afternoon? When sweet lovers pause and wonder Who am I that lie thereunder, Hidden from the moon?" She replies that this is personal death, which is by no means death. But in that hour, when her book is unread, and it rots to earth obscurely, then she will be approaching death. And so she calls for the people, when her book shall be selling for a casual penny on the market, not to let her die. She asks the boys and girls that slowly walk in the woods, and weep, and quarrel, staring past the pink wild laurel, to mix her with their talk. "Do not-let me die!" she exclaims to the farmers at their raking: To the shepherds on the hill in the pastures drowsing; to men that long for sleep, and men that wake and revel; to women at their toil, or women at their leisure, "Read me, margin me with scrawling,?Do not let me die!" And then she defies the sexton, telling him that "Many a metal wreath shall rust in the rain, and I go singing Through the lots where you are flinging Yellow clay on dust!" " GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 641 THE POET AND HIS BOOK Down, you mongrel, Death! Back into your kennel! I have stolen breath In a stalk of fennel! You shall scratch and you shall whine Many a night, and you shall worry Many a bone, before you bury One sweet bone of mine! When shall I be dead? When my flesh is withered, And above my head, Yellow pollen gathered All the empty afternoon? When sweet lovers pause and wonder Who am I that lie thereunder, Hidden from the moon? This my personal death?? That my lungs be failing To inhale the breath Others are exhaling? This my subtle spirit's end?? Ah, when the thawed winter splashes Over these chance dust and ashes, Weep not me, my friend! Me, by no means dead.; In that hour, but surely Rots to earth obscurely, And no more to any breast, Close against the clamorous swelling Of the thing there is no telling, Are these pages pressed! When this book is mould, And a book of many Waiting to be sold For a casual penny, In a little open case, In a street unclean and cluttered, Where a heavy mud is spattered, From the passing drays, Stranger, pause and look; From the dust of ages Lift this little book, Turn the tattered pages, Read me, do not let me die! Steadfast in the broken binding All that once was I! When these veins are weeds, When these hollowed sockets Watch the rooty seeds Bursting down like rockets, ' When this book unread, ' - c Search the fading letters, finding 
 And surmise the spring again, Or, remote in that black cupboard, 'Watch the pink worms writhing upward At the smell of rain, Boys and girls that lie Whispering in the hedges, Do not let me die; Mix me in your pledges; Boys and girls that slowly walk In the woods, and, weep, and quarrel, Staring past the pink wild laurel, Mix me with your talk. Do not let me die! Farmers at your raking, When the sun is high, While the hay is making, When, along the stubble strewn, Withering on their stalks uneaten, Strawberries turn dark and sweeten In the lapse of noon; Shepherds on the hills, In the pastures, drowsing To the tinkling bells Of the brown sheep browsing; Sailors crying through the storm; Scholars at your study; hunters Lost amid the whirling winter's Whiteness uniform; Men that long for sleep; Men that wake and revel;? If an old song leap To your senses' level At such moments, may it be Sometimes, though a moment only, Some forgotten, quaint and homely Vehicle of me! Women at your toil, 'Women at your leisure Till the kettle boil, ' Snatch of me your pleasure, Where the broom-straw marks the leaf; Women quiet with your weeping, Lest you wake a workman sleeping, Mix me with your grief! Boys and girls that steal From the shocking laughter Of the old, to kneel By a dripping rafter Under the discolored eaves, Out of trunks with hingless covers Lifting tales of saint and lovers, Travelers, goblins, thieves. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY. 643 Suns that shine by night, Mountains made from valleys,? Bear me to the light, Flat upon your bellies. By the webby window lie, Where the little flies are crawling,? Read me, margin me with scrawling, Do not let me die! Sexton, ply your trade! In a shower of gravel Stamp upon your spade! Many a rose shal{ ravel, Many a metal wreath shall rust In the rain, and, I go singing Through the lots where you are flinging Yellow clay on dust! Questions and 'Problems 1. Select some words from "God's World" that indicate Miss Malay's passionate love for nature. 2. What emotion is revealed in the desire to bring the earth closer? 3. See if you can call to mind some barren spot made bright by a single tree. 4. Call to mind some barren spot made bright in some other way. 5. Discuss some of the qualities that a book must possess to make it immortal. 6. Name some book that you think may live for all time. 7. Have someone read the poem "Renascence" and discuss the most vital passages in it. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February) "Martha The story of Martha is a common story of adolescence. The: period of adolescence, of passing from childhood to adulthood, is difficult because of the many emotional adjustments the individual must make. During infancy and childhood a certain amount of dependence on parents is the accepted course of behavior. Adolescence brings first a great physiological change also. Boys and girls find in their growing association with other boys, 
 MAGAZINE with crowds in the neighborhood and school, in work, and in sports, a new world of attitudes and ideas. New heroes are destined to share the place that formerly was reserved for the parents. The ideas and opinions of friends are of more importance than the opinions of parents and others in the household. Adolescence is a period of growth, of reaching out for new experiences, and of testing new powers. This breaking away from parental dependence is natural during this period and should be considered wholesome. Through experience, the adolescent must break from the dependent state of childhood, and become an independent, emancipated individual. Failure to achieve this emancipation from parental bonds makes such persons helpless later when they attempt to carry the responsibilities of adulthood. The adolescent must be permitted to enlarge his experiences, but during the process he may have many upsetting reactions if not properly understood by parents and teachers. Probably some incident that seems unimportant to the adults of the household, will largely determine the adolescent's future attitude and whole career. Martha was a sixteen-year old girl in her fourth year at high school. She was physically very well and