Susan West Smith Alice Lowise Reynolds Susan West Smith, revered and venerable mother of our beloved president, Clarissa Smith Williams, departed this life October 14, 1926. Her life extended far beyond that of the average person, consequently '"'Aurit Susan" Smith, as she was affectionately called, was eye witness of a very great many changes in this rapidly changing world of ours. The Prophet Joseph Smith has been dead eighty-two years, and yet "Aunt Susan" recalls seeing him riding 'horseback through the streets of Nauvoo, when she was a child of four years of age. Susan West Smith was of sowthern extraction. Her father, 
 Samuel West, and her mother, Margaret Cooper West, were converted in the state of Connecticut. From Connecticut they moved * to Tennessee, where they frequently entertained the elders. Later they moved to Nauvoo, and were there at the time of the martyrdom of the Prophet, and the expulsion from the city of the Saints. They left Nauvoo in 1848, making several stops along the way to plant and reap crops. Finally, in September, 1851, they arrived in Salt Lake valley. Southern Utah was beginning to be settled, so that Samuel West and his family joined the ranks of the pioneers of Southern Utah by moving to Parowan, soon after coming to Salt Lake. Their family consisted of eight children—six daughters and two sons. President Williams relates that her mother used to tell of the lively times the girls and boys had in the community dances and other town frolics. In December, 1857, Susan was married to George A. Smith, then counselor to President Brigham Young. Her own family consisted of five daughters—President Williams being the first. Her daughters' names in order are—Clarissa—Mrs. William N. Williams; Margaret—Mrs. Edwin F. Parry; Elizabeth—Mrs. Hyrum Cartwright; Priscilla—Mrs. George S. Taylor; and Emma Pearl. "Aunt Susan" survived all of her daughters except President Williams. Although Sister Smith has been a widow for many years, her husband having died in 1875, she was left sufficiently well off that, with good management, she was able to take care of her family, and educate them. The family lived in the Historian's Office until President Williams was fifteen years of age. Just before her father left for this Palestine mission they moved to Wilkie Hall, on Second West and First North. Here they remained for three or four years, finally building and locating on West Temple. For a while Sister Smith made her home with her daughter—Mrs. Elizabeth Cartwright. For the last three years she has been | living with President Williams. Sister Smith is survived by twelve grandchildren, and twenty great-grandchildren. When "Aunt Susan" lived in Wilkie Hall, the 17th ward Relief Society met at her home, and finally, when she moved to West | Temple they continued meeting with her. She devoted a good many years of her life to Relief Society work. At the completion of the Salt Lake temple, she was called to be an ordinance worker—one of the first—and to this work she devoted herself for twenty years. Elder George Albert Smith tells us that Sister Smith was quiet and unassuming in her manner, tot given to extremes in any way; not inclined to weep, but she SUSAN WEST SMITH 611 was so greatly pleased at the call to become an ordinance worker in the temple, that she wept for joy. She was possessed of that hospitality so characteristic of people of southern extraction, so that at conference time, and on other occasions her home was a comfortable and joyous abiding place for many people from many parts of the state. She radiated kindness and good will wherever she went, and those of her own hearthstone, and her many friends, were truly devoted to her. Greatly beloved was she by her surviving daughter and sons-in-law; by her grandchildren and great-grandchildren. In her passing they mourn the loss of a parent, a real gentlewoman— one who had an abiding faith in Jesus Christ and his great latterday work.: