[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 887 | Special Feature | President Hugh | B. Brown]
Reuben Clark, Jr. On October 12, 1961, following the death of President Clark, President Brown was called to be Second Counselor in the Presidency of the Church. Relief Society women throughout the Church rejoice in this further great honor and responsibility which have come to President Brown as First Counselor in the Presidency of the Church.

Sister Zina Young Card Brown, who has been the beloved helpmeet of President Brown for the fifty-five years of their marriage, has been a loyal. And faithful Relief Society woman and has advanced the cause of Relief Society in the mission Relief Societies over which she has presided. President Brown has always shown a great interest in Relief Society, and Relief Society members are enriched by the wise counsel he has given at Relief Society General Conferences in his addresses, one of which is printed in this issue of the Magazine. R,) eieak C= fr Ll ee ae I e to «4 hristmas Hazel Loomis Turn heart, turn And burn with stable light The spinning years, As hastening shepherds Walk with sturdy staffs The cold and cobbled hills, Bearing the warming gifts Of nightless song. 886 (Presiden Nathan Eldon Tanner, A» a Oy Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner, a member of the Council of the Twelve, was appointed and sustained as Second Counselor to President David O. McKay at the first session of the General Conference of the Church, October 4, 1963. He has been a General Authority since October 1960, when he became an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. In October 1962 he was sustained as a member of the Council of the Twelve. Having a rich heritage of religious training, spiritual insight and devotion, and a wide experience in both Church and civic: _ affairs, President Tanner brings to the highest council of the Church great ability and a humble, cooperative spirit. President Tanner was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, May 9, 1898, a son of Nathan William and Edna Brown Tanner. Shortly before his birth his parents migrated to Canada. His mother returned to Salt Lake City for the birth, and when the son was only six weeks old, made the return trip to Canada. After finishing nine grades of school in the small community of Etna, Alberta, President Tanner attended high school in Cardston, and later became a student at the Knight Academy in Raymond, and then prepared himself for a teaching career at the Calgary Normal School from which he was graduated in 1919. He taught school in Hill Spring, where he met another member of the faculty—Sarah Isabelle Merrill—_whom he married December 20, 1919. While living at Hill Spring, Elder Tanner served as a health officer and participated actively in community affairs and established a general store. In 1929 the family moved to Cardston and Elder Tanner became principal of the high school. In 1935 he was elected to the Alberta Legislature and became the speaker of that house. Later, he became minister of lands and mines in the provincial cabinet. In 1942 he was asked to serve as chairman of the Alberta Research Council and acted as commissioner of the Boy Scouts Association in 1946. He had faithfully served in scouting activities for many years, and was awarded the Silver Acorn and 887 a ab 4 rath # Re SSL the Silver Wolf awards. The Silver Acorn is the highest scouting award given in Canada. During the years 1952-1958 Elder Tanner was engaged in many industrial and commercial enterprises and became president of Merrill Petroleum Company and a director of the Toronto-Dominion Bank of Canada. His devoted service to the Church, since early manhood, has included positions as branch president, bishop, stake president, and mission president. At the time of his call to the First Presidency, he was a member of the Council of the Twelve and President of the Genealogical Society of the Church. President and Sister Tanner have five lovely daughters, all married and living in Canada. They have twenty-four grandchildren. The sisters of Relief Society join with Church members worldwide in appreciation and gratitude for the dynamic, dedicated leadership of President Tanner, and the inspiration, counsel, and testimony which he bears of the gospel message. Sister Tanner is an ideal wife, mother, grandmother, and homemaker, dearly loved by a large circle of friends, relatives, and associates. She has been active in the Auxiliaries of the Church and has served in many capacities in Relief Society, among them as a stake counselor in Calgary Stake. In addressing the saints following the announcement of his appointment to the First Presidency, President Tanner spoke of his desire for the faith and prayers of the members of the Church, and said, "I can humbly say, as did Nephi of old, that 'I will go and do the things which the Lord has commanded.'