[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 914 | Home | Cutouts Tell the | Christmas Story]
NEW YORK CUTOUTS TELL THE One of the special delights of the Christmas season is the preparation for the CHRISTMAS STORY long-to-be-remembered December 25th. Let the children help to decorate the outside of the house, the inside of the house, the Christmas tree, and the Christmas table. A good supply of medium heavy art paper in holiday colors, some simple designs of bells and trees that mother can help supply, and bright pictures cut from last year's Christmas cards or from current magazines will provide the materials. Sequins, little odd pearls or stones from discarded jewelry, even bright buttons (gold or silver) can be fashioned into glitter and glow to decorate the paper trees and the paper bells. These trimmings can be attached with glue or even stitched with thread. Let the children make paper chains, the linked kind, cut in wide or narrow strips and glued together to make chains of solid color or alternating red and gold, or red and green. A mother and her children will experience a great joy and make lasting memories as they cut and paste and design the Christmas decorations. 913 A Time for GELLILA Ohailuas Yous For many years, Christmas in Salt Lake City, Utah, has been characterized by attractive decorations in the small shops and in the department stores. Of particular interest for their original design and unusual trimmings have been the Christmas trees in the "Aisle of Enchanted Christmas Trees" in TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL Zion's Co-operative Mercantile Institution, a pioneer store founded by Brigham Young. The selection of Christmas trees pictured here is presented through the courtesy of Harold H. Bennett, Executive President of Z. C. M. I. This unusual "tree" is a modernized design GLEAM OF COLOR using a wire and metal frame and representDESTON BY GERTRUDE GrAUSER ing impressionistically the form of a woman. Note the head and decorated hair, the arms and stylized feet. The design is made of yarn balls and gaily trimmed blocks in a multiplicity of bright colors. The tablecloth and the table decorations are arranged to harmonize with the tree, and the bright display of gifts at the left completes the picture. 914 THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT DANISH This design may be made from a wooden frame, with the "branches" either painted or carefully wrapped with MODERN gold, silver, or colored foil. Various kinds of candles are pesicN BY attached to the frame and give a decorative touch to the MIKE ROSS simplicity of the angles of the tree. Weeet age - ont 22 * % ae ' This unusually beautiful and original ChristTIERS OF GOLD mas tree design is particularly effective in the corner of a room. The tiers are three- °°"S™ °% MEEMUT REGNKER layered, the first being made from gilt balls, the second from twigs of greenery, and the third from small electric candles. The layers are connected by fine, strong wire, and the whole design is suspended from the ceiling. Many variations are suggested by this arrangement: numerous single colors offer a wide selection, and color combinations are unlimited—the design would be lovely in blue or rose; instead of the layer of greenery, decorative chains or ropes of tinsel might be used; the base for the tiers could be wreaths or styrofoam circles. DECEMBER 1963 Here a beautiful tapered, tall tree is comWHITE GRANDEUR pletely covered with white cotton wool to resemble the soft lightness of freshly fallen snow. Large blue bells and red lights accentuate the white grandeur of the tree in a design of unusual effectiveness. DESIGN BY PEGGY CORNIA The trunk of this tree may be a long dowel TREE OF WRE ATHS rod, a round curtain rod, a broomstick, or other strong round rod. The green wreaths "~~~ °" "St SrAv8URN are arranged in graduated sizes from top to bottom, and are attached to the center rod with fine gilt wire. Plastic balls decorate the tree. A variation of this design might be made by using small artificial fruits as the decorative features. THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT " AND THE ANGELS SANG" Four large oval frames in gold, with a red stripe form the structure of this tree. Each frame is decorated with evergreen boughs lightly tip-sprayed with gold. The lights are lovely hanging pendants. The singing figurines are clad in red robes. A smaller basic tree could be made with embroidery hoops, wreaths, or other circular or oval forms wired together. DESIGN BY GERTRUDE GLAUSER This lovely tree is sprayed in mauve "IT'S FOR THE BIRDS" tones, with a light sifting of snow on the branches. It is decorated with blue balls, small white lights, and a few pink lights. Yellow plastic canaries may be seen on the branches of the tree, and golden bird cages, some of them containing canaries, hang from the branches. Many variations are suggested by this unusual tree—variations in color scheme, figurines, and color and shape of lights.