[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 890 | Special Feature | President Nathan | Eldon Tanner]
[President Nathan Eldon Tanner]

A former member of the Utah Association of Sales Executives and the Salt Lake Advertising Club, he is a past president of the Printing Industry of Utah. Currently, he is a member of the Board of Directors of Printing Industry of America. Since boyhood Elder Monson has been active in the Church, and his service in all of these callings has been marked by inspiration, devotion, and a strong and steadfast testimony of the gospel. He has been a ward clerk, counselor in a ward bishopric, and, at the age of twenty-two, he became bishop of the Sixth-Seventh Ward of Temple View Stake. After five years in this calling, he was appointed second counselor in the Temple View Stake presidency. In March 1959 he was called to preside over the Canadian Mission. In this calling he was instrumental in bringing many new members into the Church and was an enthusiastic leader of missionaries and converts. His lovely wife, Frances Johnson Monson, directed the Relief Society organizations of the Canadian Mission with en- 


 thusiasm, and wisdom. The strength of her own strong testimony and understanding of the gospel greatly advanced the work of the Society. Elder and Sister Monson are the parents of three children: Thomas Lee, Ann Frances, and Clark Spencer. Upon his return from the Canadian Mission, Elder Monson became a member of the High Council of the Valley View Stake, and later was appointed an area supervisor of nine stake missions. His positions of leadership and responsibility at the time of his call to the apostleship included serving as a member of the Adult Task Committee of the Church Correlation Committee and as a member of the Priesthood Home Teaching Committee. Earlier in 1963 he served as a member of the Genealogical Conference Staff, with the duties of attending stake conferences and presenting the genealogical program of the Church. Relief Society sisters who have had the privilege of being associated with Elder Monson both in his work at the Deseret News Press, and in his Church assignments rejoice at the appointment of this helpful, kind, and spiritually minded leader. He is very approachable and inspires respect, confidence, and loyalty.