[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 918 | Home | A Time for Enchanted | Christmas Trees]
[A Time for Enchanted Christmas Trees]
Christmas trees, dolls, poinsettias, bells. The mixture may be shaped around a fruit center, such as a maraschino cherry or pieces of candied orange or lemon peel, dates, figs, or raisins. The marzipan, after it has been molded into the desired shapes, can then be dipped into chocolate icing, standard white icing colored with food coloring, or part of the original mixture may be diluted with syrup, egg white, or a small amount of hot water to make a color mixture for dipping the marzipan shapes. Jane S. Tibbals and Hazel S. Cannon When family and friends gather home for the holidays, these nostalgic reunions prompt entertaining and festive foods. The gaiety of the holly season brings out the party-giver in us. We all have our own special menus for the traditional feast days. However, on those other occasions when we invite guests for a brunch, an open-house, or a buffet, we can make hostessing a joy by creating unusual and imaginative food dishes, many of which can be prepared in advance. 922 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL Brunch, that delightful combination of breakfast and lunch, is a heart-warming way to extend yuletide hospitality. Chicken Breast Gourmet Orange Rice Mold with Pimento Stars Della Robbia Fruit Wreath Fruit Dressing Stollen Stick Bread Butter Celery Hot Chocolate With Whipped Cream and Red Cinnamon Candies AFTER THE Two whimsical red flannel figures, trimmed with gold ribbon braid, peal out a "welcome home." PLANE ARRIVES Round place mats, cut from felt with the pinking shears, contrast with the white Christmas tree plates, and bronze silverware accents the other golden touches. Hot chocolate in jolly Santa Claus mugs is crowned with a dollop of whipped cream sprinkled with red cinnamon candies (keep the chocolate mild and add a whisper of almond flavoring for a taste treat). The party-starter is tomato juice.. Featured for the main course are delicious chicken breasts gourmet and a mold of orange rice with plump light raisins and Christmasy pimento stars. An eye-catching Della Robbia fruit wreath (it's easy art) of color-bright canned and fresh fruits is served with a luscious tangy dressing—and what could be more homey than tantalizing jewel-studded holiday bread? DECEMBER 1963 CHICKEN BREAST GOURMET 6 med. Chicken breasts or 3 large breasts cut in half? Tsp. Salt va c. Butter or margarine 1 four-oz. Can mushrooms, drained 2 tbsp. Seasoned flour 1 tbsp. Lemon juice Ya «. Flour Ya tsp. Pepper 1 tbsp. Chopped onion 1 chicken bouillon cube 1 c¢. Hot water Y% ¢. Light or heavy cream Method: Mix flour, salt, and pepper in heavy paper bag. Add chicken and coat thoroughly. Brown slowly in butter or substitute. Remove chicken from pan and add onion and mushrooms; cook for 2 or 3 minutes. Stir in the 2 tbsp. Of seasoned flour. Dissolve bouillon cube in hot water and add to flour-fat mixture and stir until smooth. Add slowly the lemon juice and cream. Arrange chicken in casserole or flat baking dish; spoon sauce over chicken; cover and bake in a medium oven for about 1 hour. Uncover for the last 15 minutes if a crisp chicken is desired. Serves 6. ORANGE RICE MOLD WITH PIMENTO STARS 1 ¢. Regular long grain rice VY tsp. Curry powder V2 tsp. Salt Yc. Light seedless raisins pimentos 2 to 4 tbsp. Frozen orange juice concentrate, undiluted 1 pt. Water 2 tbsp. Butter Method: Combine curry and orange juice concentrate. (The amount of the juice used will depend on one's taste and the color desired). Mix to a smooth paste and add remaining ingredients. Place in baking dish and bake covered in a 325 to 350 degree oven for about 142 hours or until rice is done. Mix lightly with a fork to distribute raisins. Pack in buttered mold and keep warm until serving time. Unmold on serving plate and trim with pimento stars. Individual molds may be used. Blanched almonds may be added just prior to placing in mold. Nice with fried or creamed chicken. 924 DELLA ROBBIA FRUIT WREATH canned peach halves canned pear halves canned preserved or spiced crabapples creamed cheese, softened and whipped with milk, if necessary Tokay grapes granulated sugar canned pineapple slices canned whole apricots curly endive 2 or 3 green gumdrops green grapes egg white pink or red coloring Method: Use your own imagination and creativity in making this wreath, both in the selection of fruits and in the arranging of them. Remember that color contrasts are effective. The above ingredients are merely suggestive. Drain the canned fruit (save the juices for punch) and chill. Arrange a bed of curly endive on a large round serving dish or chop platter. Place all decorated fruit in a circle around a bowl of fruit dressing. The pears and peaches are pretty with two halves put together with a ruffle of cream cheese. Wipe the halves thoroughly and spread one half of the fruit around the edges with the cheese; add the other half and let the cheese extend beyond the joining of the two. A dried fruit and nut mixture may be used to stuff fruit, if desired. Make blushing pears by rubbing each half with a tiny bit of rosy coloring; stand upright, and garnish with leaves cut from green gumdrops. Frosted grapes add an artistic touch. Several hours or the day before assembling the wreath, dip bunches of grapes into slighty beaten egg white. Drain off excess egg white and dip in granulated sugar. Dry thoroughly. FRUIT DRESSING v2 «. Lemon juice 3 whole eggs 1 c. Sugar 1 c. Whipping cream Method: Beat eggs and add sugar and lemon juice. Cook in double boiler or in a very heavy pan until mixture is thick, stirrring constantly. Cool and fold in whipping cream. Makes about 3 cups of dressing. Delicious with all kinds of fruit salads. Keeps well in refrigerator. THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT STOLLEN STICK BREAD (Easy Christmas Bread) 3 cakes compressed yeast or 3 pkgs. Active dry yeast Ye c. Warm water 2% c. Whole milk 1% ¢. Sugar Method: Dissolve the yeast cakes in warm water. Scald milk and add sugar, salt, and shortening. Cool. Beat the eggs and add to cooled milk mixture. Sift 10 cups flour and stir part into milk mixture to make a thin batter. Stir in the dissolved yeast cakes and remaining flour. Knead 2 or 3 minutes or until smooth. Place in large well-greased bowl. Cover tightly and store in refrigerator. It will keep 4 to 5 days.
