[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 905 | Poem | Color Scheme | Eva Willes Wangsgaard]
Color Scheme Eva Willes Wangsgaard Silver the clouds in the cobalt sky, Sapphire the lake's cool sheen, Jade in the rushes and meadow reeds, Silver and blue and green. Silver the snow on the mountain peaks, Indigo shadowed through, Emerald ice marks the waterfall, Silver and green and blue. 905 Mrs. KATHERINE B. OETTINGER, chief of the Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C., reported that in 1961, the year in which the most recent statistics are available, no State in the U. S. Had as low a death rate among infants as did the Netherlands and Sweden. The lowest rate in the United States was in Utah, twenty and three tenths per one thousand live births. Mrs. HELEN C. SCHREIBER, Goldendale, Washington, and Mrs. Marian Valentine, Tevares, Florida, won special fellowships for achievement at a National Home Demonstration Agents Convention held in Salt Lake City in September and attended by eight hundred women. This program is the "country women's college," said one attendant. Mrs. Schreiber will use her award to study programs in Indiana and Missouri to help young married couples in home management—a great need in our country, it seems. Mrs. Valentine will study marketing and management as related to consumer information. Miss SurE ANN GODDERIDGE, of Smithfield, Utah, whose father raises Holstein cattle, and who 906 Ramona W. Cannon herself, drives a tractor and drinks three glasses of milk a day, was chosen American Dairy Princess in Miami, Florida, in September. She will probably visit forty States and several foreign countries during her year's reign. Her attractive smile and _ healthy, wholesome look are pleasant characteristics. BARBARA WaArD is a_ distinguished British economist who has spent much time in India, helping with the economic problems in two hundred and twenty thousand major community centers, many of them centering around agriculture. Having recently returned from India, she says the improvement in economic conditions in the villages, after three years, is most impressive. GLADYS ERICKSON, a reporter for Chicago's American, has been honored by King Paul of Greece with the Golden Cross of the Order of Efpoiia for her excellent published articles on Greece. These have made Greece better known, it was announced, to the world, and to America in particular. She has promoted good relations between Americans and Greeks and has helped to strengthen those relations. of the WIND Rosa Lee Lloyd CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, his mother Tutu, and the five children live on a pineapple plantation on the island of Maui. Emma Lu, the eldest, has recently returned from San Francisco, where she graduated as a nurse and became engaged to a Sherman Grant. Margaret Lester, Luana's sister-in-law, who lives in San Francisco, is visiting with the Harringtons. She is an artist and plans to enter an art contest in which Luana is also interested. They plan to search for Bo, a twin, who has run away. Tutu put her knitting in the basket and rose from the table. "Let us have luncheon before the search," she said, quietly. "But, Mother!" Ben exclaimed. "None of us feels like eating. Make some sandwiches. We'll take them with us."' Tutu walked to the window and stood there for a moment, looking down the path that led to the highway. "ll help you, Mama," Emma Lu offered, as Luana took buns from the cupboard for sandwiches. "Shall I get a jug for punch? It's such a hot day." Tutu turned from the window. Her blue eyes were twinkling. "That won't be necessary," she said, pointing toward the path. "Look! There comes our little Bo. Home again. I thought he would be home by lunchtime. Dinnertime for sure." Luana dropped the buns and ran to the window with the others. Philip slapped Emma Lu's shoulder. "I'll be your monkey's uncle!"' he said. '"He's coming home on his own power!"' A sob caught in Luana's throat, as she watched Bo's lonely, dejected little figure trudging up the path. She glanced quickly at Ben. His mouth was grim and unrelenting. She reached for his hand but his fists were clenched. "Take it easy, Sergeant," she coaxed. "It took courage for him to come back so soon. Especially, when he knows he has to apologize to his classmates this afternoon."' Tutu, standing close by, put her hand on his shoulder. "TI remember when you ran away, Ben," she told him. "You were twelve, I think. You were angry because your father would not permit you to have a canoe of your own until you were fourteen."