[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 938 | Lesson | Theology — Stewardships; A Review Roy | W. Doxey]
[Theology — Stewardships; A Review Roy W. Doxey]

The presentation "Ye Are on the Lord's Errand" portrayed one of the messages contained in the new season's theology course, a continued study of the Doctrine and Covenants. Truths found in the 1963-64 visiting teacher messages were depicted in the dramatization "Truths to Live By — Jewels of THE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE Strength." A back-glance of the sixyear course on America's Literature which will be concluded with the 1963-64 season was given in the presentation "Album of America's Literature." The second year of the social science course on Divine Law and Church Government was featured with the presentation 'Mothers of Men." At 1:00 p. M. Stake and mission officers heard a stirring message by Elder Marion G. Romney on the text, "Train up a child in the way he should go; and when he is old, he will not depart from it"? (Proverbs 22:6). He declared that "Both our homes and our society will be put in order when and only when, by precept and example, parents teach and inspire in their children a willing resolution to live the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ." In the 2:00 p. M. Session for stake and mission district presidences, Bishop John H. Vandenberg, Presiding Bishop of the Church, outlined objectives of the Church Welfare Program, saying that while the immediate objective is to render assistance to those in need, the ultimate objective is "to help people to help themselves." Through impressive presentations, demonstrations, symposiums, and talks, leadership helps and specific instructions on the respective courses of study were given in separate departmental sessions for presidencies, Magazine representatives, and class leaders. From 1:15 to 4:00 P. M. Training and instruction sessions were conducted for secretary-treasurers, music leaders, and work meeting leaders. In this latter department a large and impressive display of beautifully made articles demonstrated the homemaking arts and skills taught in Relief Society work meetings. Lela Foster Morris On a sacred night they came to Bethlehem, Quiet little town so blessed, For there in a manger on the hay The infant Jesus lay at rest. Shepherds came to worship him, Groups of heaven's angels sang, "Glory to God in the highest, Peace on earth,"' their voices rang.