[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 947 | Poem | Old- Fashioned Thinking | Beulah Huish Sadleir]
[Old- Fashioned Thinking Beulah Huish Sadleir]

1 would hurry to the window To see the cutter glide Along the smoothly padded street Where summer pavements hide. 947 SOCIAL SCIENCE °¢ I I Divine Law and Church Government Church Government: Its Organization and Structure Lesson 12 — Church Courts (Councils of Justice), an Essential Part of Church Government Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, March 1964 Objective: Church. Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne: mercy and truth shall go before thy face (Psalms 89:14). For they shall be judged according to their works, and every man shall receive according to his own works (D & C 76:111). Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more (D & C 58:42). Basic Philosophy Governing Human Association The most impelling and dynamic influence in this world is love. It ls the most God-like characteristic of man. It is also the most important law of life. Jesus said that the love of God and love of fellow men are basic to all the counsel and direction from heaven. Love is a social law essential to all successful human relations. Man himself is a social being. He is the product of his interaction with people and with God. He is born into a family; he grows and develops in a group experience. 'Through this experience learning takes place and he becomes familiar with the values 948 To help establish an appreciation for justice and mercy in the divine of his groups. Through the choices he makes and the cultivation of ideas he secures a place in his family, his society, and, eventually, in the kingdom of our Father. He cannot do this in isolation. The plan of salvation is based upon knowing how to live successfully with one's fellow men. 1. The Chosen and Elect. In our previous discussions it has been pointed out that the great objective — of the gospel, the real mission of — Jesus Christ, is to save mankind. — It is to bring men and women to a state of perfection whereby they can participate with comfort and assurance as the chosen and elect in the kingdom of God. The chosen and elect are those who can comprehend the wisdom of God and apply the correct formula for living as it has been developed in the design of the Creator. This in no way detracts from man's agency. 2. Salvation and Perfection. God made man in his image. Therefore, the potentials of Godhood are inherent in man. The plan of salvation includes the directions for be- coming perfect. Our degree of perfection will depend on the use we make of the divine direction, instruction, and guidance. The purpose of the Church is to save and exalt mankind. This implies giving him the opportunity for the full expression and development of his capabilities.