[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 76 | Poem | North Main, Salt. Lake City 11, Utah | ]
[North Main, Salt. Lake City 11, Utah]

President Hugh B. Brown I I I a S 7 I a! Own Friday morning, October 4, 1963, at the opening session of the 133d Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, President Hugh B. Brown, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, was sustained as First Counselor to President David O. McKay to fill the vacancy in the Quorum of the First Presidency caused by the sudden death of President Henry Dinwoodey Moyle, September 18, 1963. President Brown is well known and beloved throughout the Church. When he was appointed and sustained as a member of the Council of the Twelve at the April 1958 General Conference, Elder Harold B. Lee, in writing of Elder Brown's new appointment for The Relief Society Magazine, expressed the appreciation of many others also familiar with the great gifts and accomplishments of Elder Brown: "Seldom has there been a man whose vast service in the Church has affected the lives of so many for good, and the saints with one heart seemed to echo their acceptance of this eloquent preacher of righteousness to the high place to which he has been called." President Brown was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, October 26, 1883, the son of Homer M. And Lydia Jane Brown. In his middle teens he went to Canada with his parents. There, at the age of twenty-one, he was called upon a mission to Great Britain and was released in 1906. He served with distinction overseas in the First World War and returned home as a Major in the Canadian Army.

He then took up the study of law and entered into the practice of his profession. In 1908 he married Zina Young Card, daughter of Charles Ora Card and Zina Young Card. Sister Brown's father was the founder of Cardston, Canada, and her mother was a daughter of Brigham Young. Her grandmother was the third General President of Relief Society. President and Sister Brown are parents of six lovely daughters and two sons, all living, except Hugh Card Brown who was killed in 1942 while serving in the Royal Air Force. There are twenty-five grandchildren, and ten great-grandchildren. In 1921 the family moved to Lethbridge, Alberta, and when the Lethbridge Stake was organized in November of that year, it being the third stake in Canada and the eighty-fourth stake in the Church, Elder Brown was made its president. In 1927 Elder Brown and his 


 family moved to Salt Lake City, and Elder Brown became a member of the Utah State Bar. In 1928 he became president of Granite Stake, where he presided until 1936. In 1937 Elder Brown was called to preside over the British Mission, and Sister Brown and five of the children went to England with him and remained there for three years. Upon his return from this mission Elder Brown became co-ordinator of the servicemen for the Church and a member of the Servicemen's General Committee. Again, in 1944, Elder Brown was called to preside over the British Mission. He returned to Utah in 1946 and joined the faculty of the Brigham Young University.