[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 920 | Home | A Lovely Gift — Oriental Silk Panel Betty | B. Huber]
Lovely Gift (yumi! Yoh in Snowflake Design Betty B. Huber Don'r let a meager budget dwarf your creativity. There is always colored tissue paper. With it and rubber cement glue you can create a most interesting hanging. Purchase a lovely piece of silk, either a soft beige or white. Then decide on the width and length you wish the panel to be. I hand hemmed the sides one inch wide, then machine stitched the top and bottom hems for the rods to slide through. I obtained curtain rods for hanging the panel. Select rods with ornate knobs. You will need two rods, one for the top and one for the bottom. To the rod at the top, attach gold cording to hang it to the wall. These panels are attractive hung in pairs, or singly, perhaps to hang over a console. Lovely patterns and designs emerge from circles, squares, petals, and cutouts. The base forms couldn't be simpler, but layering and overlapping make new arcs and more intense colorations. For delicate effect use the snowflakes singly, or use overlapping in different colors for the same design. Use two colors when cutting out the same design. Do not make the snowflakes too large. With small leftover pieces, add tiny flakes. If you desire double or triple snowflakes, glue the back of each one, placing it on top of the next desired color, let dry. Next glue the back of the last snowflake and gently place it on the silk. Be sure all corners and edges are covered with glue. I found using my finger to spread the glue the best instrument. To work on an old piece of sheeting tacked to a board makes a good work piece. After each flake is glued, quickly pull it from the sheeting. The glue dries quickly and clear. To make sunbursts, stars, rosettes, and even strips of shaded colors running diagonally overlapping one another is attractive. Circles made of strips can be done in the same way. Squares added on circles or vice versa are interesting. The more intricate the designs, the more attractive your panel will be. To make a rosette, for instance: Take 3 or 4 squares of tissue paper each a different color. Fold diagonally, making a triangle. Fold in half, then again and then again. You will have a cone. Now draw scallops along the folded edges or simply cut free style with your scissors. Dotted lines on drawing indicate where you should cut. The shaded portion will be the rosette. Glue the roses down one at a time on the top of each other. Note the new color you have made in the middle. Away _ open edges TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL It is a good idea to experiment on regular white tissue wrapping paper before you will want to create the lovely designs from colored paper. Most hobby shops sell the tissue paper in beautiful shades of magenta, turquoise, blue, green, red, orange, yellow, lavender, and other colors. We have all had the experience of creating snowflakes while in school, especially in the wintertime. You will find your children will love to join in and, before you know it, you will have become an artist with tissue paper. A Golden Candle for Christmas Ardelle West This tall and radiant candle is made from painted or spray-painted tin cans in graduated sizes, joined together, and decorated with odds and ends of jewelry—colored stones and rhinestones. The medallions are made of lace and they are glued to the candle. Step 1. Use a large can for the base, perhaps a juice can. Do not empty the can as the weight of the liquid is needed to keep the candle from tipping over. _2. Fit a No. 2% can inside the top of the can used for the base. Cut one inch from the top of this can and discard this piece. Then split down the edge about 2% inches every ™% inch all around the can. 3. With long-nosed pliers, curl these edges under. 4. Fit another can, about 6 inches tall, inside the No. 21% can. 5. Fit another shorter can inside the above can and cut down and curl as directed above. 6. Fit another 4-inch can on top of this. 7. Fit a small frozen juice can inside the can described above, split and curl as before. This will be the can which holds the candle. 8. Cement the cans together with a good metal cement and let them dry thoroughly overnight. 9. Decorate the cans with bits of heavy lace, cut in various shapes, or fit a piece of lace around each can, covering it completely, or cut lace borders. Attach lace with strong glue or cement. 10. Attach upholstery braid around the top and bottom of each of the large cans. 11. When all cement or glue has dried thoroughly, spray the candle in a pale gold color, silver color, or other color, as desired. 12. Apply the trimming jewels with dart cement. The more jewels used, the more elegant the candle holder will be. 920 Berta Josuks MAKE Marzipan, a delicious sweetmeat of European origin, MARZIPAN is easily made, and its possibilities of variation in FOR form, color, and flavor make it a delight for special occasions such as children's parties, bridal showers, CHRISTMAS holidays, and especially for Christmas. 15 bitter almonds, or, if small, 25 bitter whites of three large eggs or 4 small eggs, almonds beaten 1 Ib. Sweet almonds 1 tbsp. Light-colored syrup 1 Ib. Powdered sugar enough rosewater for a stiff mixture Variations Some recipes substitute beaten egg yolk for the egg whites listed in the basic recipe, and finely sifted granulated sugar may be used instead of powdered sugar. If bitter almonds (Prunus amygdalus, variety amara) cannot be obtained, the amount of sugar and sweet almonds can be increased as desired, and almond flavoring, to taste, may be added, or lemon, lime, or orange juice may be used for variety. Prepared almond paste can be purchased and substituted for grated almonds. Two and one half cups of almonds equal one cup of paste. 


 Methods of Preparation Grate the almonds finely on a hand grater, or, if preferred, grind them in a hand grinder, or chop with mechanical chopper, or pound into a paste. Mix almonds and sugar and add egg whites or egg yolks, syrup, and rosewater, according to the recipe used. Knead well for 15 to 30 minutes. Shape mixture into the form desired. This may be some shapes of fruit, such as strawberries, bananas, apples, plums, peaches, oranges, lemons, limes, pears; or some vegetable, such as tomatoes, potatoes, carrots, beets, turnips, asparagus, celery, parsnips, avocado; or, especially for Christmas, the marzipan could be molded into the shape of