[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Behold, I Stand at the Door and Knock" by Mary Grant Judd]

Visiting Seacher Nlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 2—"Behold, | Stand at the Door and Knock" (Rev. 3:20) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, November 1, 1949
Objective: To point out that Christ is ever ready to enter our hearts, if we but prepare the way. ANY of the utterances of our Savior ate figurative in their nature. So with this one. If we consider the quotation in its entirety, we Shall see that the complete statement, in order to be made more forceful, is clothed in metaphorical language. To quote the expression in full: Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me (Rev. 3:20). If Christ is not speaking of an actual door that we may open, if he does not mean that we may truly sup with him and he with us, then just what does he imply? He is pleading with us to hear his voice and accept his message. The door we are asked to open is that of our minds, our hearts, our souls. The bread he desires us to partake of is the bread of life. And if we open the door to him and bid him enter, the result will be pleasant even as it is when friends break bread together. Unfortunately, the call of the gospel falls, at times, upon deaf ears. We are too busy with the ordinary affairs of life to heed it. We are like those of whom the Lord spoke in the Parable of the Marriage Supper when he said: Schonherr "LO! I STAND AT THE DOOR AND KNOCK" A Perry Picture A certain man made a great supper, and bade many: And sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come; for all things are now ready. And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it: I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them: I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. 556 So that servant came, and shewed his lord these things (Luke 14:16-21), * Are we not sometimes like the guests who were bade to the supper yet who, by making excuses, deptived themselves of the enjoyments that might otherwise have been theirs?
Someone has said, "We are not punished for our sins but by them." And our modern scripture declares: There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated—And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated (D. & C. 130:20-21),  We feel at home with those who are like ourselves. A friend is one with whom we have much in common. Accordingly, if the Man of Galilee is to be a welcome guest, we must become like him.
Remembering his purity of life, let us try to conform our lives to the one perfect example.
Then we shall be attuned to the gospel message which he bears, and we shall open — the doors of our hearts to him for he has said: He that receiveth my gospel receiveth me; and he that receiveth not my gospel receiveth not me (D. & C. 39:5). | WVork MM leeting—Sewi ng Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at