[A Circus is Always Fun by Rachel K. Laurgaard]

A CIRCUS IS ALWAYS FUN tach, with tape or glue, a strip of cardboard to support the animal so that it will stand up. Don't forget to hang plenty of balloons from the chandelier, to float down into each pair of outstretched arms when the cake and Ice cream have disappeared. At any party—circus—or other. 543 wise, there is no doubt but the children are the clowns—bless their merty hearts! Provide them all with peaked clown hats of bright-colored construction paper, with crepe-paper tuffs gathered on a string around their necks. And with popcorn and peanuts and "Crackerjack," who says the circus hasn't come to town! —o-<>--eSong for Deep Summer Dorothy J. Roberts The linnet sings no longer After the woven cup To cradle mate and birdlings Once is up. His skeins of lovely music, Now, are wound Upon the summer's spindle Of remembered sound, And should m For this—the y throat stop threading— dusky air, With the shuttle of its singing, I would not care. A Sapling Edna S. Dustin A boy is much like a sapling tree, Awake with the dawn, his cares leaf free. He squashes the earth through his firm young toes, And wiggles and stretches to height—he bows To the curve of the nearest breeze And thrives on pruning; his knotted knecs Are always out for the sun to Kiss, His restless fingers never miss Toying with beetle or butterfly; His tendril faith climbs the sun-washed sky. With loving hands and a little care, A sapling is certain to grow anywhere.
FROM THE FIELD
Margaret C. Pickering, General Secrctary-T'reasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of matcrial for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274, RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Harriet D. Foutz YOUNG STAKE (NEW MEXICO), ANNIVERSARY BANQUET March 17, 1949
The wards of Kirtland and Farmington and the branches of Shiprock, Waterflow, and Aztec celebrated the Relief Society Anniversary with a "potluck" banquet, interspersed with a lively program or readings, singing, and toasts. The photograph shows only part of the 250 officers, members, and guests who participated. A portion of the large birthday cake may be seen on the table. Harriet D. Foutz is president of Young Stake Relief Society.  
546 
Photograph submitted by Zella B. Johnston SOUTH SUMMIT STAKE (UTAH), PARK CITY FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 16, 1949
Front row, center, standing back of the birthday cake, left to right: President Iola Hall; First Counselor Florence Lindstrom; Second Counselor Crissie Winn. Zella B. Johnston is president of South Summit Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by LaNola C. Driggs LIBERTY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), SOUTH SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY BANQUET, March 16, 1949
Seated at extreme left: Ida Terry. Standing at the back of the table: First Counselor Etta Egli; President Florence Wiseman; Second Counselor Mae Walker; Secretary Ruth Kroescher. Seated at the head of the table: Stake President A. Lewis Elggren and across from him, his wife, Mildred P. Elggren. Seated at left side, left to right: Lottie Gamble; former ward Relief Society officers: Rose Spratt; Lillian Rich; Mary Sanderson; Thelma Brimley; Kate B. Carter; Alfreda Covey. Seated at table, right hand side, left to right: former stake Relief Society president Cornelia S. Lund; present stake President LaNola C. Driggs; First Counselor Elda D. Miller; Second Counselor Lillian B. Forsgren; Secretary Edna P. Pulham; Elizabeth Felstrom, eighty years old, an expert quilter; ward organist Magna Watson.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 547
Photograph submitted by Harriet C. Leishman HYRUM STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, EASTER SUNDAY, APRIL 17, 1949
Ethelyn Carver is stake chorister, with Beulah Jensen as organist and. Reta Poppleton at the pipe organ. Harriet C. Leishman is president of Hyrum Stake Relief Society Photograph submitted by Holly W. Fisher WESTERN CANADIAN MISSION, DAWSON CREEK BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS DISPLAY WELFARE QUILT Left to right: Mrs. Schoonover; Elder Walter; Mrs. Boyce; Mrs. Young; Audrey Young; Mrs. McClarity; Mrs. Shields; Elder Sonntag; Mrs. Lutz. This Relief Society branch, 1,000 miles north of the United States border, has only two Latter-day Saint women among them, Sister Young and are quilts, held bazaars, and attended their meete meeting, the meeting Relief Sonine members, with her daughter. They have made welf ings faithfully. When one of the members could not attend th: was brought to her home. The elders in this 'solated community also enjoy ciety work. Holly W. Fisher is president of the Western Canadian Mission Relief Society. 
548 
Photograph submitted by Leona B. Sonne PALESTINE-SYRIAN MISSION, ALEPPO BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY Left to right: Leona B. Sonne, President, European Mission Relief Society; First Counselor, Aleppo Branch, Elisa Ouzounian; President Mary Hindian; Second Counselor Mary Bezjian; Berta Piranian, President, Palestine-Syrian Mission Relief Socity. In reporting her recent visit to the Palestine-Syrian Mission, Sister Sonne commends the devoted efforts of Sister Berta W. Piranian in promoting the welfare of the small branches and in supervising visits to the aged and homebound sisters. "Sister Piranian is energetic and faithful, and I feel sure she will continue her efforts to build up a good organization in the two branches of the Church in the Palestine-Syrian Mission. Our trip to the Holy Land was full of interest and rare experiences.... It is hoped that in the near future a branch of the Church will be established in Jerusalem. This is the ambition of Brother and Sister Piranian." Photograph submitted by Ivie H. Jones SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION, TEMPE (ARIZONA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to nght: Second Counselor Virginia Martinez; President Josefa Arrendondo; First Counselor Maria P. Gutierrez; Mission Relief Society President Ivie H. Jones.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 549
Photograph submitted by Mary S. Ellsworth NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, CHOWCHILLA BRANCH, CONDUCTS BAZAAR AND FOOD SALE, March 10, 1949
Left to right: Ina Clay; Neva Rencher; Savonna Christofferson; Fern Wallace; First Counselor Virginia Kane; President Guinivere Hatch; Secretary Nellie Powell; Second Counselor Violet Fancher; Verna Christofferson; Gladys Wright; Arlene Stark; Velma Gordon; Nellie Beddes. Note the display of useful aprons in many different patterns and the handwork displayed on the table. Amelia P. Gardner is president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Gladys Clifford NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, THE DALLES (OREGON) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY BANQUET, March 17, 1949
Front row, seated, left to right: Secretary-Treasurer Hazel Clark; Second Counselor Nita Hoffman; President Gladys Clifford; First Counselor Edith Sorenson. Back row, standing, left to right: Lillian Eastman; Erma Mulkins; Ruby Christensen; Ellen Butterfield; Mabel Homer; Mabel Maurus; Letitia Rhodes; Elizabeth Butler; Mildred Dyer; Louise Genung; Velma Page; Margaret Montgomery; Viola Harmon; Eleanor Harmon. LESSON g¢= ie} DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 18—"Our Lord's Ministry In Perea and Judea" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 26, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, November 1, 1949
Objective: To demonstrate that Jesus taught a plan of life capable of saving all who will repent and obey him. His Rejection in Samaria HERE is a wide variance among the synoptic writers as to the sequence of events in the life of Christ during the last few months of his earthly life. It seems clear that, after the events discussed in lesson 17, he went into Perea and possibly into a small part of Samaria.
This time, however, racial prejudice overcame their hospitality, and the Samaritans rejected Jesus because he was going toward Jerusalem and was a Jew. On his previous visit he had been gladly received and entreated to remain.
James and John, the Sons of Thunder, resented the disrespect shown their Master and wanted the Lord to command that fire should come from heaven and consume his enemies, "even as Elias did." (Read II Kings 1:10-12.) Jesus rebuked them saying: "... Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of. For the Son of man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them..."  (Luke 9:55-56). Let us remember that thought. The purpose of Jesus is to save.
Leaving the Samaritan village with no bitterness, the group went to another, as the Lord had instructed the twelve to do.
This was one of his great lessons on tolerance, charity, patience, and longsuffering. He had the power to avenge a wrong, but, instead of using it, he chose to forgive. It may be parenthetically observed that most of the soul-touching incidents of this and other journeys were recorded only by Luke. He was a physician and has been called the humanitarian of the synoptic writers.
Every miracle of healing recorded by the other synoptic writers in the New Testament is also recorded by Luke and, in addition, he records many not mentioned by the others.
Luke gives the incident of the three men who wanted to become disciples of Christ on conditions. One hesitated to enter the ministry because of the 552 hardships entailed; one wanted first to bury his father; and the other wanted to bid his loved ones farewell.
Jesus taught each of them a great lesson.
Service in the kingdom of God supersedes other duties. The Seventy Charged and Sent About this time Jesus called the seventy to assist the twelve in the ministry. He sent them: "two and two before his face into every city and place whither he himself would come." (Read carefully Luke 10:1-12.) With the calling and sending forth of the seventy, the work of the ministry was greatly expanded.
They were not restrained, as the twelve had been at first, from going to the towns in Samaria or even to the Gentiles.
Jesus himself began going into Gentile territory. His plan provided for taking the gospel to all the world. He must make that plain before he finished his mortal career. He gave. Us proof by sending his authorized ministers to non-Jewish people. The Lord's work is progressive. At first it was confined to Israel but, during his lifetime and immediately following his resurrection, he inaugurated a plan to have the gospel preached to all the world. "For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call" (Acts 2:39). The Seventy Return When the seventy returned and reported their labors, Jesus rejoiced at their faithfulness. 'They had exercised in righteousness the powers  he had given them. He told them to rejoice because they were accepted of the Lord rather than because they had power over evil spirits.
Jesus always turned to his Father, whether in joy or in sorrow. Who Is My Neighbor?
Probably soon after the return of the seventy, an incident occurred which drew from the Savior one of his most valuable and appreciated parables.
Luke tells us that a "certain lawyer' asked a question to tempt Jesus. It was probably done to embarrass the Lord. He put this question: "Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?" The great teacher replied with a counter question—often the most effective way. "What is written into the law? How readest thou?" The man readily showed that he was familiar with the law and replied: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself." 'The answer was correct and Jesus said: "This do, and thou shalt live." 'Then the lawyer made further inquiry: "And who is my neighbour?" (Luke 10:25-29). The Savior then gave him and all of us the Parable of the Good Samaritan (Luke 10:30-37). It should be carefully read. It is not only a great story but is rich in precious lessons. (The story can be made more graphic by use of a map showing the location of Jericho and Jerusalem and the account of how the road between them was infested with robbers.) Many priests and Levites lived at Jericho.
Picture the victim of the robbers as being a Jew; LESSON DEPARTMENT it is almost certain that he was. A great lesson can be taught by this parable showing how prone we are to find excuses for not doing the right thing as did the priest and Levite. However, the "essential difference between the Samaritan and the others was that the one had a compassionate heart, while they were unloving and selfish."
Jesus taught the world one of his greatest lessons—that those who are kind, charitable, and righteous consider all men as neighbors.
Martha and Mary An incident occurred during one of the Lord's visits to Bethany which has occasioned much discussion. He went to the home of two sisters, Mary and Martha.
Jesus loved these two sisters and also their brother, Lazarus.
Martha was concerned with the physical welfare of their guest while Mary sat at his feet listening reverently to his teachings.
Martha soon complained and said: Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me. And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things: But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her (Luke 10:40-42). The lesson is not that the practical things of life are not essential, because they are essential, but that in every home time also should be found for cultivating that better part—true spiritual development which comes through study and worship of God. 553
Ask and It Shall Be Given You Criticism of Pharisees and Lawyers Jesus took occasion to teach more about prayer. We have heretofore, in connection with the Sermon on the Mount, discussed prayer and particularly the Lord's Prayer. We will not repeat this discussion but recommend the reading of Luke 11:1-13. In fact, we may study with profit all of Luke, chapter 11. The Lord gave a scathing rebuke to the Pharisees and lawyers but space will not permit here a detailed study of this denunciation. The Disciples Admonished and Encouraged Let us turn rather to a study of his encouragement and advice given to his disciples. He warned especially against hypocrisy.
Jesus refused to take sides in petty quarrels and especially in matters involving legal administration. Any other course would have involved him in useless discussion and might have given color to the charge that he was arrogating to himself functions of legal tribunals. (Repeat the 12th article of faith.) During the progress of his Perean ministry, Jesus reiterated some of the wonderful truths he had given in the Sermon on the Mount. He repeated for 'the sake of emphasis. He told his disciples that if they would truly seek the kingdom of God all needful things would be added.
They were taught in the Parable of the Foolish Rich Man to lay up their treasures in heaven; that the wealth of earth would all be left at death.
Their leaders should especially be faithful.
More had been given to them and more 554 would be required. He referred feelingly to his foreknown death and told them of the strife and trouble which would follow. "Except Ye Repent Ye Shall All Likewise Perish" Some of the people who had been listening to the Lord's discourse reported the circumstances of a tragic event that had occurred in the immediate area, in which many had been killed—some at the base of the altar inside the temple walls.
Some were inclined to the view that the deaths of these Galileans were merited retributions.
Jesus assured them that those who had suffered were not greater sinners than other Galileans but added: "... But, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish" (Luke 13:3). God, not man, is to judge. The absolute need for repentance was illustrated by the Parable of the Barren Fig Tree. (Read Luke 13:6-9.) A Woman Healed on the Sabbath Jesus once more healed a sick woman on the Sabbath day and was criticized by the ruler of the synagogue. 'Ihe woman had been sick for eighteen years. Luke, the beloved physician, tells us the Lord said she had been bound or "had a spirit of infirmity" for all those years.
Jesus again silenced his adversaries, and his believers were made happy. Will Many or Few Be Saved? On his journey toward Jerusalem, Jesus taught in many of the cities and towns of Perea. One person  who had been impressed by his doctrine asked: "Lord, are there few that be saved?"
Jesus replied: "Strive to enter in at -the strait gate: for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able" (Luke 13:23-30). It is clear from latter-day revelation that the Lord will divide his children in the hereafter according to their works into at least three kingdoms—celestial, terrestrial, and telestial. (Read D. & C., section 76.) Jesus Warned of Herod's Design As Jesus approached Jerusalem, he was warned of Herod's designs, but he steadfastly continued his course.
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1.
What great lesson did Jesus teach to his disciples who wanted to wreak vengeance on the Samaritans' village which rejected the Lord? 2.
Give an account of the calling of the seventy.
Discuss their duties and tell what powers were given to them. 3.
Relate the Parable of the Good Samaritan.
What lessons does it teach? 4.
What did the Savior mean where he said to Martha, ""But one thing is needful?" 5.
What are the characteristics of true prayer?
References in the Gospels Matt. 10:5-42; 15:24; 18:21,22; 23; 28:19. Luke 3:9; 9:51-62; 10:1-19, 25-42; 1121-54; 12:1-12, 14-31, 35-573 13:1-9, 11-35; 18:1-5. John 4:4-42; 10:22, 40; 11:5; 11:54.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 555