[Poem for a Washday by Miranda Snow Walton]

poem, she said, About the flowers and trees, But on her washday line, I saw Poems fluttering in the breeze. She used such gay, embroidered words That Passers-by could tel] Her cottage was a 'shrine, with love A daily ritual. She told of happy hearts within Whose care was her delight, Of him who shared her every joy" Coming home at night. > And there were tiny, dainty words That looked like fairy wings, Soft, cuddly words for lullabies A new-made mother sings. Ah, no, she could not write a poem, But on her washday line I saw a poem of living joy More beautiful than mine. Auerbach's Makes It Easy For You To Knit Yourself A Dress Knitting is an easy and fascinating hobby. Auerbach's gives FREE knitting lessons with all yarn purchased. Minerva Yarns - MONTEREY, all wool knubby-yarn 2.80¢ ounce VELVEEN, 71% wool, 29% rayon, shiny rayon thread.80¢ ounce @ @ Cost of handknit dress pictured..$21
Minerva pattern book containing a marvelous collection of dress patiwee.
256 ART NEEDLEWORK AUERBACH'S FOURTH FLOOR ds ug? Auerbach's, State and Broadway meen lion ¢ Salt Lake City, Utah - Please send me copies of the Minerva Pattern book..25¢.
Plecse send me ounces of Minerva: Velveen From lear and Sar I think the two stories: "Young Hearts Are Fragile" (by Olive W. Burt, June) and "'A Family's a Family" (by Estelle Webb Thomas, June) are very good stories, much better in construction than the average story published in The Relief Society Magazine. I liked Olive Burt's especially and the humor in the other was refreshing if a little overdrawn. I wonder though, if anything about a family can be overdrawn. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson, Boise, Idaho I am happy to have a poem "Roses Wet With Rain" in the June Magazine. The cover is indeed beautiful and fitting for summer. —Grace Sayre, Pasadena, California At a recent union meeting I had as my guest a young French millinery designer who gave us all many useful tips on veils, contours, trims, colors, types, etc. We were every one "picked up" by her talk. On the way home Sister Roskelley (our stake president) rode with one of our councilmen. He asked, "Well, what did you learn in Relief Society today?" She replied, "We learned how to wear hats becoming to us, how to make an old hat into a pretty new one—and lots of good things about hats in general." 'How different," he replied, "from the time our mothers and grandmothers went to Relief Society! In those days they learned how to care for the sick and bury the dead." "Well, nowadays,' answered Sister Rosa "we get them a new hat and they ime." —Ida L. Edwards, Fair Oaks, California May I be allowed to congratulate you on such a fine Magazine.
From cover to cover, we never miss an article. The material may be written for women, but it rit has plenty of messages for men also. —Jack K. Clark, Dearborn, Michigan /6 I am a missionary in the Central States Mission, and I can say that I know what a wonderful Magazine you put out, even for the Priesthood of the Church. I wish to subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine for one year for a saint who has been my "Mission Mom" for the past eight months. She took care of me last summer when I was ill, while traveling without purse or scrip. —Elder Hyrum B. Ipson, Hot Springs, Arkansas Please continue my subscription for another year. I always enjoy the Magazine.
With all good wishes to the staff on this wonderfully inspirational Magazine for their excellent work. —Mrs. John Gardner, Encino, California It is my privilege to be theology leader in our Relief Society and teacher training leader in the Sunday School. I am a convert to the Church and have had much studying to do, but have always found the work wonderful and inspiring. Teaching Relief Society lessons has helped me through the years with my family and is helping me now with other children. Our lessons are always of the greatest import and worth. We should be grateful to those who plan them. May the Heavenly Father bless you and your co-workers in giving us the fine material each month in our Magazine. —Lillian R. Johnson, Turlock, California I wish to thank you for the lovely Magazine you send our way each month. I enjoy every word in it from cover to cover. —Mrs. Von L. Peterson, Hamer, Idaho Thank you for the wonderful Magazine. I wouldn't like to be without it.