[Work Meeting—Sewing: Layettes and Baby Sewing by Jean Ridges Jennings]

Work Meeting) Lesson 2—Layettes and Baby Sewing Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, November 8, 1949 HE modern mother, when planning the layette for her baby, puts greatest emphasis on baby's comfort, protection, freedom for activity, and allowance for growth.
Being a practical person, she selects a minimum layette at a minimum cost, as she realizes that baby will very soon outgrow these garments.
Infants become irritable and fidgety when their clothing is not comfortable. If mothers would carefully analyze their conduct they would usually find that the reason for crying and fretting can be traced to clothing. Hence, baby's clothes should have the following characteristics: 1.
Allowance for exercise and growth. 2. No bulky fullness to lie on. (A little extra fullness can become very uncomfortable after long periods of lying in the same place.) 3- Flat, smoothly finished, loose fitting necklines. (Lace, embroidery, and bulky collars irritate a baby's chin and neck.
Collars roll up around the face and the corners are pushed into the baby's mouth.) 4.
Convenient closing that simplifies dressing and prevents unnecessary handling of the baby. (For everyday wear, garments with full-length front openings that lap generously to prevent ugly gaps are practical. Otherwise, wide openings: should be allowed so that the garments can easily be slipped on.) LESSON DEPARTMENT 5.
Fastenings easy to manage and not troublesome to launder. (Be sure fastenings are placed so they do not cause discomfort to baby when lying down. ) 6. As few seam lines as are essential to good fit. (Simple workmanship js always preferable.
Seams should be narrow and smoothly finished. ) 7- Hand finishing for softness and flexibility of workmanship, 8.
Easy and quick to launder neatly. (Materials must be durable enough to Stand up under frequent launderings, ) 9.
Economical and simple to make at home. 10.
Materials of very dresses; bird's-eye, knit tubing, and outing flannel for gowns. ) Tie fastenings of very narrow cotton, twistless tape are generally preferable to tiny buttons The tapes wear well, are Casy to manage, and Cause no trouble in washing and Ironing, For daytime wear, dresses should be no longer than toe length and wide enough at the lower edge to permit baby to kick and exercise his leg muscles. Bias, rather 357 than straight-cut slips, have certain advantages, They spread in whichever direction there is need of room and require no set-in fullness.
Sleeves should be loose enough at the bottom and at the armhole to allow freedom of movement.
White materials stand the necessarily repeated launderings of the baby's clothes much better than colored materials, Dainty pastel colors are attractive, but before using them make certain that materials are color-fast. The most satisfactory seam to use in making these tiny garments is a very narrow French seam.
Around armholes where there is a set-in sleeve, use the false French seam.
That is a plain seam with edges turned together and finely slipstitched together by hand. It looks like a French seam when finished.
Dainty handwork and decorative stitching make lovely trimming and are easier to launder and less bulky for baby than too much applied ruffling and lace. <i 9
Dry-Farm Blues Wanda Green Nielson A lake would be a lovely thing to see, ancing in the sunlight, asleep beneath the moon; A creek would be a happy thing to hear, Singing, as it spilled along, a carefree little tune. And trees that dress for spring and dress again for fall. Wheat and Sage and cedars have a beauty of their own, But, oh, I do get lonely for other things I've known! 

558  A stench We