[Rugmaking in the New England Mission by S. Dilworth Young]

RUGMAKING IN THE NEW ENGLAND MISSION. Said. 'These were of a pattern and style in perfect taste, in pleasing color. As we went from room to room, the variety of uses for the hooker's art became apparent in seat Covers, purses, wall medallions, tapestries, and in floor rugs of all sizes, shapes, and descriptions. We saw chaitseat covers done so delicately that they rivaled the finest needle point. MB: McGown, a charming woman, supplies a good portion of the United States with both the incentive and the materials. She designs the patterns, dyes the cloth, supplies the dyes, frames, cutters, and general instructions for a host of women (and some men, I was told). She issues monthly bulletins on the newest discoveries and acts as the source of supply and inspiration for her enthusiastic followers. Her instructors, living in about twenty of the forty-eight states, are busily engaged in training women in the art and distributing the supplies from Rose Cottage. The crowning event in the Rose Cottage year is the exhibit of hooked rugs at Worcester in May.
Here women enter for exhibition the finest examples of the art.
Some tugs, only a foot or so squate, are delicate enough to hang on walls as framed pictures, while the largest examples run up to ten feet square, rivaling the finest the professional carpet weavers can produce. 521 In this exhibit is found the true art of the New Englander.
When we visited the exhibition, about 300
Tugs were shown.
Some were so well done that it is hard to believe that they were woven from strips of cloth, so natural and realistic were their flowers. Others, in addition, had great charm of combinations of colors.
Delicate shading is the secret to be mastered. I am told that seven shades go into the making of one rose design.: The att of achieving this delicacy is the secret which all strive to learn. I was told that one extremely beautiful rug, about four-by-six feet, would easily bring one hundred dollars, at a sale, and that it was not unusual for the large eight-by-ten feet sizes to bring from $500 to $1000, if well done. One woman regularly sells her two-by-four feet rugs for seventy dollars. While I wandered around in the great crowd of women, hearing comment, criticism of pattern and design, words of approbation, and general good chatter, Sister Young was getting a short lesson on dying, and another on how to hook. Our sisters can become expert in this art, she thinks.
With it, they can beautify their homes, help their pocketbooks, and bring new cash to the coffers of the little Relief Societies scattered over the mission. I think so, too. —_— Getting Acquainted Mary Rigby The funny thing about a smile, You wear it for a little while, And soon the strangeness all is gone— It seems to fit the face it's on. The