[Vol3 | April 1916 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON III Genealogy and Art Third Week in May]

LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in May.
GENEALOGY.
LINKING THE PAST TO THE PRESENT.
There are two methods of studying history as there are two methods of studying genealogy. One method is to begin with the first known fact or individual and work on down to the present. The other is to begin with the living individual, or fact, and work on back from that starting point. The second method is the one we have followed this winter in preparing our genealogical lessons. Beginning with every individual member of the Relief Society, we have asked that a sheet be prepared for that individual. Next, we have asked each member to prepare a similar sheet for her husband. Then prepare sheets for each of her children, then grand-children. Now we will assume that every student member in the Society has her loose sheets prepared and wishes now to know how she can put her information into the living family record, which has been specially prepared by the Genealogical Society for this very purpose. There are a number of instructions given on the first page of the record itself, and if they are carefully read you will get some idea as to the method in which you are to proceed to fill up this record but there are a number of problems or questions which arise in this matter, and we will name some of them here, and give you our own suggestions concerning them.
In paragraph 3, of the instructions in the record, we read "It is recommended that the family groups commence with the eldest of the line, who were members of the Church in life, and that the others follow in order of seniority." Now, as a matter of fact, there is a point to be settled. Whose record is this to be, the record of the husband and his family including his wife and his children or is it to be a record of the woman and her family, including her husband? As personal illustrations sometimes clarify a lesson, we will say that a husband, Jacob F. Gates, for instance, has a large family in this Church and so has his wife, Susa Young Gates, whose father was Brigham Young. The record book would not take a tenth part of the Young family and, indeed, it would not hold all of the Gates. On the next leaf will come Jacob F. and wife with father joined the Church with his brother Thomas and his sister Mary. Their large families could not possibly be put into the son's book. These are personal problems. How shall we solve them?
Jacob F. Gates decided to write down his father and his mother on the first leaf of his book. On the next leaf comes his wife's father and mother with their children, including Mrs. Gates. Next, on the next leaf will come Jacob F. and wife with their children. This is a natural sequence as the husband was the oldest child of his father. On the next leaf appears Jacob's brother, Franklin, who was next in age with his family; and so on, taking his brothers and sisters and their families. Then follow Brigham Young and his wife Lucy Bigelow's three daughters with their families. Following these will come the oldest married Young child with her children, and so on, down the list of the Young children. The individual sheets are prepared for each one whose name appears in these family groups. It will take a long time to get all of the information concerning even this restricted family group. Yet that is the task set for the Gates family to do. On the pages where Jacob F. Gates' father's name appears, and on the page where Susa Young Gates' father's name appears is a note referring to other records where will be found the complete record of Jacob Gates' family, and the complete record of Brigham Young's family.
Another question that is being asked is, what shall be done where a man has more wives than one, and where the wife has more husbands than one? The two husbands' names would precede the name of the wife in the order in which they were married to her, while the wives' names would follow the husband's name in the order in which they were married to him.
It is also asked what shall be done where the husbands' and wives' families are sufficiently small to be included back to the grandparents in one book? The answer is simple. Include them both, but if there is any doubt about their all going into the one book, have separate records for the husbands' families and the wives' families, as in the Gates record and the Young families' record.
ART.
SPRING LANDSCAPE STUDY.
I have always felt that I could endure the long, cold winter, because at the end, spring would come. Spring?the beginning of things, the return of life, the return of the birds, their nesting time, the budding time. April comes with her baptism of the new year, and with a week's soaking rain washes away the dead ashes of the past.
THE SOAKING WET DAY IN SPRING.
Now begins a festive season for the poet and artist. Note the dark, water-soaked soil, the puddles of water, the miry roads, the wet sheds and fences. Look at the first bursting of the sun's rays through the heavy clouds. If you will study this landscape, you will find, when you next visit a gallery, a work of art that, without this study, you would not have noticed.
April's moods. The heavy rains over, a playful feeling of youth and new young life pervades all the landscape. The winds are no longer boisterous and blustering as in March, and are totally unlike the winter and fall three-day winds. Now they chase each other, first warm, then cold, then blowing warm again. Like an impulsive, merry child April turns suddenly from smiles to tears?short-lived, for while you tuck your new spring hat under your sleeve, fearing a drenching from that water-filled cloud, lo, the heavens open, and bursts of sunshine, showers of living gold, call life to seed and bud. I hope, dear sister, you are not so dried up, so sordid, so tied to small things, so wedded to the commonplace, that you cannot make an effort to break your shell, and look out into the real, beautiful world, because you are missing more than you think. Hunt for that beautiful patch of willow green that should be somewhere in your valley. May is passing in the season's procession, with her blossoms and flowers. The mountains, far beyond, once covered with snow, appear lace-capped. As the air becomes drier and warmer, clouds hang in great white billows in the sky. What a happy time for a walk into the fields, along the nearby hills.
QUESTIONS.
a. Where did you find the pussy-willows? b. What blossoms have appeared? c. What wild flowers are pushing their way out? d. How much grey colour is seen in the landscape? What change will come presently? e. Describe a rainy evening, uptown, with reflections of light upon the wet pavements. f. Describe the wettest day that you have seen this spring, with a team and wagon passing over the road. g. Describe a scene with spring blossoms and winter snow on the mountains.
ARCHITECTURE.
Devotees and Their Shrines, pp. 124-131.
CLASSIC PERIOD, THE CLASSIC REVIVALS, THE VICTORIAN GOTHIC.
You have all had missionaries abroad, and can no doubt collect scenes and pictures from various English towns and cities. A little effort might bring together a collection of these architectural works, which would be very helpful in developing the spirit of the buildings of the Classic Period, the Classic Revivals, and the Victorian Gothic?all beautiful styles of architecture. Study each illustration, and be able to tell each type given. Name its architect, and name it as a building. Review what has been gone over, by asking each member to name the various types of architecture, with the name of its architect, shown in cuts from pages 121-131. If possible, have a native of England describe the following:
a. Describe St. Paul's exterior?London. b. Describe St. Paul's interior. c. Describe Radcliffe Library?Oxford. d. Describe the Mansion House?London. e. Describe Fitzwilliam Museum?Cambridge. f. Describe other notable buildings in England.
LESSON IV. Home Economics.