[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 14 | Special Feature | In Memoriam President | Antoine R. Ivins]
13 In Memoriam President Antoine R. Ivins of the First Council of Seventy May 11, 1881—October 18, 1967 = President Antoine Ridgeway Ivins, senior President of the First Council of Seventy, passed away October 18, 1967 at the eighty-six. He succeeded President Levi Edgar Young, as the senior president in 1963. President Ivins has been a member of the First Council of Seventy for thirty-six years. During that time he spent three years as head of the Mexican Mission and thirty years as a member of the Church missionary committee. A native of St. George, Utah, he was the son of Anthony Woodward and Ehzabeth Ashby Snow Ivins. His father was a member of the Quorum of the Twelve and a Counselor in the First Presidency to President Heber J. Grant. Most of President Ivins' early life was spent in Colonia Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico. He obtained his early education in Colonia Dublan, and was graduated from the Juarez Academy and studied law at the School of Jurisprudence in Mexico City. He also studied at the University of Michigan, then returned to Utah and was graduated from the University of Utah. He was a fluent 14 age of speaker and a thorough scholar of Spanish. In 1920 he helped build the Lund Home for Boys at Centerville, Utah. He served six years as treasurer of the Great Salt Lake Boy Scout Council andorganized — several Scout troops. Before his appointment to the First Council of Seventy, President Ivins was manager of the Churchowned sugar plantation in Hawaii. Throughout his life, he was dedicated to the gospel, and an active supporter of the youth. In 1957, he received the "All-Church" Honorary Master M-Man award for "outstanding service to the youth of the Church." He married Vilate Ellen Romney in the Salt Lake Temple, June 26, 1912. Sister Ivins passed away in 1964, two years after they celebrated their fiftieth wedding anniversary. The General Board and members of Relief Society in all stakes and missions of the Church extend sympathy to President Ivins' family and his many friends. He has left a heritage resplendent in faith and good works, and an excellent example of devotion to the Church for all to follow. President Belle S.
