[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 33 | General Feature | Editorial Modesty in Dress | ]
[Editorial Modesty in Dress]

32 EDITORIAL s With the responsibility which the Lord has placed on parents in regard to their responsibility toward their children (D&C 68:25-28), mothers will give anxious watchcare today to the welfare of their daughters. Especially, during these troubled times, do they need to give special attention to teenagers to guard against some current social trends and fashions that, if adopted, could adversely affect the future of their daughters' lives. The adverse influence of some of these is so subtle as to be almost unrecognizable until it takes over in the life of a young girl. Some extreme fashion trends are becoming a commonplace mode of dress and seem to have won general acceptance, with a failure to see any particular harm in them. A case in point is the present miniskirt fashion trend with skirts seeming to grow continuously shorter and less modest. The Church has always taught the importance of modesty in dress. There is no question as to the present need for emphasis on this teaching. Latter-day Saint parents, particularly mothers whose influence upon a girl is a potent one, should accept the counsel of Church leaders and teach their daughters by example and wise counsel satisfactorily 'to withstand the popularity pressure of the mini-skirt and other types of immodest clothing. They will assist their daughters to make their own clothing if this is necessary to preserve modesty. Mothers will make sure their own attitudes and dress are in harmony with Church teachings if they expect their teen-age daughters to grow into exemplary Latter-day Saint women. Volume 55 January 1968 Number 1 a Belle S. Spafford, President ® Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor ® Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor ® Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Fawn H. Sharp Florence J. Madsen Anne R. Gledhill Leone G. Layton Belva B. Ashton Blanche B. Stoddard Zola J. McGhie Alene M. Young Oa J. Cannon Alberta H. Christensen Lilia B Walch Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt. Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous 33 Edith S. Elliott Celestia J.