[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 4 | Special Feature | The Virtue of Obedience | Joseph Fielding Smith]
[The Virtue of Obedience Joseph Fielding Smith]
Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency Address delivered at the Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967] # My dear sisters, brethren, too, as we have a few of them among us. 
It is a pleasure to stand before you this morning, and I ask that the Lord will bless me that I may give to you the things that you desire. 
I wouid like to speak on obedience. 
I would like all the Latter-day Saints to feel in their hearts that the work in which they are engaged is not only the work that God has instituted in these latter days, but that it is a work in which each individual member is deeply and vitally interested. 
Every man and woman should feel a deep and abiding interest in the work of the Lord. 
It is only the possession and observance of the truth that can make us free, and all those who do not possess and obey the _ gospel are slaves and are not free. 
God has established all things in their order. 
The house of God is a house of order, not a house of confusion. 
We must walk in his paths, and observe his pre- cepts to do them, or we will be cut off. 
It is only by observance to the laws of God that men and women can rise above the petty weaknesses of mortality and exercise that breadth of affection, that charity and love, that should actuate the hearts and the motives of men. 
It requires no special bravery on the part of men and women to swim with the currents of the world. 
When men or women make up their minds to forsake the world and its follies and identify themselves with the Lord's people, it takes courage, character, and superior intelligence. 
The man or woman in this Church who desires to enrich his or her faith in the highest possible degree will desire to observe every rite and ordinance in the Church in conformity to the law of obedience to the will of God. 
In these things, and through them, we gain a more perfect knowledge of our Maker, and enriched faith means an enlarged power, and though we may not have in this life an occasion to exercise all the powers that come to us through the enrichment of our faith, those powers may be enriched in their fulness in eternity, if not in time. 
The man and woman, therefore, among the Latter-day Saints, who does not see the necessity for the ordinances in the House of God, who does not respond to the requirements of the gospel in all its rites and ordinances, can have no proper conception of the great work which the Latter-day Saints have been called upon to perform in this age, nor can we The Virtue of Obedience enjoy the blessings that come from the virtue of obedience to a law higher than that of man. 
The gospel is very simple when we understand it properly. 
It teaches us to forgive, to overcome selfishness, anger, wrath, faultfinding, complaining, and the spirit of contention and strife. 
It also teaches us to do here just what we would be required to do in the heavens, with God and his angels. 
If we would listen to its teachings and obey them, and put them into practice, there would be no desire to covet in the hearts of the children of men. 
They would possess the Spirit of Jesus Christ and understand the precepts of the gospel as he taught and admonished all men to observe them. 
I would like to quote you the following: Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. (James 1:17.) To please him, that is the Lord, we must not only worship him with thanksgiving and praise, but render willing obedience to his commandments. 
By so doing, he is bound to bestow his blessings; for it is upon this principle (obedience to law) that all things are predicated. 
So you see, sisters, just what obedience can do for us if we will follow the teachings of the Lord. 
Now I want to say to Relief Society, and to all the rest of the organizations in the Church, for that matter, that not one of them is independent of the Priesthood of the Son of God; no one of them can exist a moment in the acceptance of the
And I shall repeat, it was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I expect to see the day when this organization will become one of the most perfect, most efficient and perfected organizations for good in the Church, but that day will be when we shall have women not only imbued with the spirit and testimony of Jesus Christ in their hearts, but also with youth, vigor, and intelligence to enable, them to discharge the great duties and responsibilities that rest upon them. We realize that it is impossible for women possessing physical weaknesses on account of age or infirmities to meet every requirement; but we expect every woman entrusted with responsibility in the Church to do her duty to the utmost of her ability. That we look «for; that we pray for; and for that we labor to the best of our ability and strength we possess, and we trust that from this time forth, that you good sisters will go back to your wards and stakes with renewed energy, judgment and wisdom, and perform the duties that are assigned to you, even those who are called to take the oversight of the great work, the Relief Society organization. May we be obedient to the commandments that the Lord has given us. If we are, he will bless us and magnify us in our callings. President McKay has asked me to give to you sisters, his love and to let you know how much he appreciates the work you are doing in this great organization, and he also expressed a desire to leave with you his blessing. I would like to commend you on the wonderful work you are doing in this great cause, and pray the Lord will bless you with every blessing needed, and I leave my blessing with you, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. Ce ie i ee PE SpA me Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve ay [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967] » Thank you, President Smith, for that excellent message which we were able to hear. I am always delighted to be in the company of President Smith. I have occasion, frequently, to read from the Doctrine and Covenants where the Lord told Hyrum Smith that his name would be held in honorable remembrance through all the generations of time because of his faithfulness and devotion and his loyalty to the work of God. When I think that Hyrum Smith's son was the President of the Church and that his grandson is now President of the Twelve, I am seeing the beginning of the fulfillment of the Lord's promise to the posterity of Hyrum Smith. President Smith, we honor you for what you are and whom you represent in the great council of the Priesthood today. Now, if the spirit is willing and I can follow along where, unfortunately, I haven't caught the theme of your whole meeting, v7; January 1968 excepting President Smith's remarks, but I commend them all to you with a full understanding because his message on obedience should ring true in the hearts of all of us. The sisters have asked me to talk to the subject, "The Mother's Place in a Gospel-Centered Home Teaching." I announce that so that you will know what I was supposed to talk about if I miss the mark. Dr. David Sarnoff, who is called the father of television and radio, is quoted as having said: The happiest people I have known have not been the men of great wordly achievements, or accomplishments of wealth. They have been the simple people who are happily married, enjoying good health and good family life. (Wisdom Magazine 22nd issue.) TEACH THE CHILDREN In an epistle to the Church, addressed to the Church by President Brigham Young and his Counselors, John W. Young and Daniel H. Wells, just six weeks prior to his death, in 1877, he said some important things. Among the many duties which devolve upon us, there is none that should receive more careful and constant attention than the education of our children. They are numerous, and if properly trained will become a great blessing to the inhabitants of the earth. Parents should take time—if not every day, at least as often as they can and not allow many days to elapse—to call their families together and interrogate them respecting their associations, their words, actions, etc., and teach them the principles of the gospel. They should send them regularly to day and Sunday schools and furnish them every possible facility for gaining a sound and thorough education, and especially in the principles of the gospel and in the history of the church. The teachers to whom we 8 entrust our children for education should be faithful Latter-day Saints, sound in doctrine and thoroughly imbued with a love of Zion. In this way we can rear up a generation of men and women who shall love and maintain truth and righteousness in the earth. President Joseph F. Smith, after quoting the Lord's requirement to teach the children, which you find in Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants, said: And if parents fail to do this and the children go astray and turn from the truth, then the Lord has said the sin shall be upon the heads of the parents.