[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 34 | Special Feature | Josie B. Bay Resigns as a Member of the | General Board]
josie B. Bay Resigns as a Member of the General Board # General Board members and sisters throughout the Church will regret the resignation of Josie B. Bay from the General Board as of January 1, 1968. She has served since May 26, 1948. Her departure comes after nearly twenty years of service on the General Board, during the last fourteen of which she has served as Manager of the Temple and Burial Clothing Departments, and, more recently, of the Garment Distribution Centers, as well as Director of Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop. Her loss will be keenly felt. Sister Bay had been stake Relief Society president of two California stakes before her husband, Ira M. Bay, moved his family to Salt Lake City and Sister Bay was called to the General Board. In addition to her daily attendance at Relief Society headquarters, she has also carried out her General Board duties, serving on practically all of the committees and visiting the stakes throughout the world on conference assignments. Sister Bay is blessed with many talents in the business field and has a humble, teachable personality with great love in her heart for her fellow workers and an understanding heart. She leaves the Board to devote her full time to her husband and family, however, one may be sure she will continue to serve her sisters in the Church as she may be called or as she may volunteer to do. The united love of the Board will go with Sister Bay. Her service to Relief Society will ever stand as a memorial to her in the sound practices she has established under the General Presidency during the past vears of phenomenal growth. On behalf of all Relief Society sisters love and appreciation are extended to Sister Bay and her husband and family, who have unselfishly and devotedly supported Josie B. Bay throughout her long years of valued service to Relief Society. Y RELIEF SOCIETY IS: ) Lois L. Tanner Opportunity—knocking at a woman's soul Service—in a blue checked apron Compassion—with a babe in her arms Faith—washing the windows of heaven.