From Near and Far

I want to thank you for printing Birthday Congratulations to President McKay (September 1967). His words on motherhood and the home, and the editorial "Hold Up Your Light," by Marianne C. Sharp helped me to make up my mind regarding a problem in my home. I have been trying to stop working outside the home, and stay at home with my five-year-old daughter, but these offerings in the Magazine helped to show me the light that my daughter should be brought up by her mother and not be placed in a nursery or put under the direction of a baby-sitter.
Mrs. Anna Goldberger Van Nuys, California

May I take this opportunity to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. We feel a great need for spiritual uplift here in Japan, and the literature of the Church keeps us in contact spiritually with the saints in Zion. We certainly feel that the Relief Society organization was inspired. How wonderful it is for us to share in the gospel with those not of our faith through lending our Magazines around the neighborhood.
Shana Anderson Tokyo, Japan

The reason for my letter is to express my deep gratitude to you for sending me your beautiful Magazine. Although we are not of your faith we are very strong in the Jewish faith it is my duty to tell you that your Magazine and its lovely articles, advice, homemaking etc. are full of high ideals, sweetness, charity. My sincere congratulations.
Mary C. De Bensadon Tangier, Morocco

My October issue of The Relief Society Magazine arrived today, and I am satisfied that it is even more wonderful than usual. The Magazine is one of the wonderful birthday gifts from my daughter in Phoenix. I sent it to her on her birthday, and this year she wanted to send it to me, as I enjoy it so much. I then pass it on to my daughter-in-law, so that she can study the spiritual living lessons, as well as the wonderful stories and clip the delicious recipes. My daughter and son-in-law are L. D. S. members, but I am not. Yet I truly want to say that I enjoy the spiritual living lessons, the homemaking discussions, and the messages of your fine leaders.
Lydia M. Leeds Greer, Arizona

A word of appreciation for our outstanding Magazine especially the March 1967 issue. I keep it handy to glance through and admire the splendid color photos and read a bit of poetry. My teenage daughters enjoy the Magazine as much as I do. My fourteen-year-old daughter expressed delight over the lovely story of the life of Emma Ray Riggs McKay (June and July 1967).
Grace S. Olsson High Level Alberta, Canada

I enjoyed the September (1967) issue of The Relief Society Magazine very much the poems: "Wide Autumn," by Dorothy J. Roberts; "Remembering" (frontispiece) by Christie Lund Coles; and the article "A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star" (by Vesta P. Crawford), which gave us a broadened look at those otherwise "dim and distant days" from the time of the Relief Society organization in Nauvoo until its time of growth in the mountain valleys.
Maude O. Cook Salt Lake City, Utah