The Relief Society Magazine - January 1968, Vol. 55, No. 1

What Do You Want The New Year To Bring? General Presidency

The Cover: Winter in Monument Valley, Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown

Frontispiece: Cedars of Lebanon Photograph by Harold M. Lambert

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

Mrs. Anna Goldberger Van Nuys, California

Shana Anderson Tokyo, Japan

Mary C. De Bensadon Tangier, Morocco

Lydia M. Leeds Greer, Arizona

Grace S. Olsson High Level Alberta, Canada

Maude O. Cook Salt Lake City, Utah

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$2.95 A'Scrapbook of INSPIRATION. Ever been sty DESERET BOOK COMPANy 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please senq me [7 A MORE EXCELLENT WAY DA SCRAPBOOK OF INSPIRATION Total amount of Purchase ¢ ROSS - This Must include 32% Sales tax from Utah residents Ordering from Sait Lake, or 5% sales tax for California residents Ordering from Orange. Apicture of carefree piness.. Guaranteed by Beneficial Life Insurance Your family deserves to enjoy the pleasant. Happy, things of life... And you can also make sure they have the opportunity to achieve all they have set their hearts on if you have provided them with a secure financial future through foresight and planning - and life insurance. Second Class Postage Pai¢ at Salt Lake City, Utah And you can do it so easily; a stroke of your pen can create an "Instant Estate" for your family. This "Instant Estate" can be tailored to your specific needs by a knowledgeable and experienced Beneficial Life Agent. Give him the opportunity to complete the picture of happiness for you. Opal; = 7 fi Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah