[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 20 | Special Feature | One Gold Morning Second Prize Poem | Clara Laster]
ONE GOLD MORNING Clara Laster I That morning when I felt the sheet-metal Season move over me like a half breath, Rushing moth-wing thoughts into turning A spring green, I shouted, 'But there are still oily clouds And white water standing hard against The morning; Icy patches of winter to suck my steamy breath Where I walk through low meadows. Mountains facing me, blue in their bones, Brimming spider webs of stone Like frozen statues caught in cement." Silent as the core of snowflakes falling, God spread his creation before me, Earth and aeons spoke a language Of work and trust. That morning, I found my soul's Limpid-longings. \I There in that place, that hour, We found a marble pool piercing the frigid Land like a silver dove in a cove of agate. It beckoned with the speech of Law. Clara Laster Second Prize Winner The Relief Society Poem Contest Nerves and skin surrendered As I cried, ''Baptize me now. So I, too, Can brush shadows from the teeth of time, Until with faith our world Will shine." Ill Standing there where sacred moments Had burned with the fires of birth, I stood, sharpened against the wind And water, viewing the images Of the spoken word, spreading Upward, outward, inward, Endless and spaceless, Yet centered enough to fit into one Small capsule, Love. IV That morning when we left the heaven place, Still wet with willowy wings of faith, I was content. And as the sun of noon galloped in To stop the hours in print, I walked away and knew The strength of steel that now was mine, Would be a binding thing. I would not forget that it was First tasted On a morning tucked behind the curve Of a golden winter. Clara Laster was born in Alabama, the last of nine children. Her literary career began after she married and settled in Oklahoma. She has had over 500 items published, including appearances in The Relief Society Magazine and the Improvement Era. She is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Poem Contest. Her book of love poems, "House on Halfway Hill," won a publication award and will be published by South and West, Inc., in 1968. Recently, she has been appointed to the staff of South and West Inc. And will serve in 1968 as award book publication chairman. She will also be editor of their literary magazine, The Tulsa Poetry Quarterly. She is also regional vicepresident of the Oklahoma Poetry Society, chairman of Tulsa Poets, belongs to many writing groups, and won awards in ten contests in 1967. Her daughter and son are married and live in Tulsa and she has three grandchildren. She is stake cultural refinement leader and the teacher training instructor in Sunday School.