[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 17 | Special Feature | Award Winners Relief Society | Poem Contest]
Relief Society General Board is proud to announce the names of the three winners in the 1967 Relief Society Poem Contest. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Gay N. Blanchard, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "In Heaven's Spring." Second prize of thirty dollars is given to Clara Laster, Tulsa, Oklahoma, for "One Gold Morning." Twenty dollars is awarded to the third place winner, Mabel Jones Gabbott, Bountiful, Utah, for her poem, "And Thou, Bethlehem." The poem contest, has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924. It is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except by written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication according to the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received first place for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again. Award winners I Mrs. Blanchard is a first-time winner in the poem contest, and the poem will mark the first time-she has been represented in the Magazine. Mrs. Laster is well known to Magazine readers, but this is her first time as a contest winner. Mrs. Gabbott, likewise, has appeared many times in the Magazine, but never before as a winner. Three hundred and seventy-nine poems were entered in. The contest, including thirty representing countries other than the United States. They were: England, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, and Scotland. Utah led the United States entries with one hundred twenty entries, followed by California with sixty-five. Entries came from forty states. Idaho, Arizona, Oregon, Washington, Ohio, Texas, Wyoming, and Michigan all had a large representation in the contest. The General Board is pleased with the response to the contest and the wide geographical distribution of entries. The winners are to be congratulated by the General Board, and appreciation is expressed to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The services of the judges and members of the General Board on the contest committee are also much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning entrants, are published in this issue. 17 IN HEAVEN'S SPRING Gay N. Blanchard Somewhere heaven's spring has lost A misty orchard of old apple trees Wildly spilling fragrance From its vagrant boughs. Seeking solitude for prayer, I chanced upon its pale pink banks Piled recklessly upon the green, All drenched in sweet spring rain— And held suspended there Before a white-iced mountain, Palely mist-miraged With one low strip of cloud. Breathless I stood As quietly The hallowed hush enveloped me. My solemn prayer that you would find All joy, all truth, all peace of mind Ascended with the lifting mist, Potent with faith, Irrevocable. Gay N. Blanchard First Prize Winner The Relief Society Poem Contest 18 th One burning brea t in fear, My heart cried ou Because \ knew That sorrow, searching, The price of such eterna Was also what I'd asked, My dear. For you. E and hair and wet struggle.