[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 73 | Lesson | Cultural Refinement "The Substance of Faith" Robert | K. Thomas]
CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 6—"The Substance of Faith" Elder Robert K. Thomas (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) "Faith is the substance of things hoped for.' —New Testament, Hebrews 11:1 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 OBJECTIVE: When her life is lighted by eternal principles, a woman can live both in and above the world. (Note to Class Leader: A consideration of the painting ''Life From Death" by Floyd E. Breinholt, American Painter, and Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University, and his commentary thereon, as printed on page 688, 691, of the September issue of the Relief Society Magazine, will be a part of this lesson.) This lesson opens with a consideration of Matthew Arnold's well-known poem "Dover Beach": The sea is calm to-night. The tide is full, the moon lies fair Upon the straits;—on the French coast the light Gleams and is gone; the cliffs of England stand, Glimmering and vast, out in the tranquil bay. ES January 1968 Come to the window, sweet is_ the night-air! Only, from the long line of spray Where the sea meets the moon-blanch'd land Listen! You hear the grating roar Of pebbles which the waves draw back, and fling At their return, up the high strand, Begin, and cease, and then again begin, With tremulous cadence slow, and bring The eternal note of sadness in. Sophocles long ago Heard it on the Aegean, and it brought Into his mind the turbid ebb and flow Of human misery; we Find also in the sound a thought Hearing it by this distant northern sea. The sea of faith Was once, too, at the full, and round earth's shore Lay like the folds of a bright girdle furl'd. But now I only hear Its melancholy, long, withdrawing roar, Retreating to the breath Of the night-wind down the vast edges drear And naked shingles of the world. Ah, love, let us be true To one another! For the world, which seems To lie before us like a land of dreams, So various, so beautiful, so new Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light, Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain; And we are here as on a darkling plain Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight. Where ignorant armies clash by night. This poem has been so often analyzed and so widely praised for its imagery and diction that its message has almost assumed a minor role. Critics dismiss Arnold's suggestion that faith in human love must replace religious faith as a typical nineteenth century' reaction to scientific discoveries which were calling many accepted beliefs into doubt. If such criticism is 74 valid—and the perspective of a century would seem to support such a view—perhaps we need to see what this poem tells us about the religious faith it is so willing to abandon. Arnold's basic image—faith as a tide—suggests that he does not expect religious faith to remain constant. As waters rise and fall, so faith may be more evident (or perhaps more possible) in certain epochs. Even more interesting is the secondary image of faith as a "bright girdle." The obvious picture here is a decorative sash or belt encircling the world. The connotations of such a picture are revealing: Faith may be attractive but it is binding, restrictive. It also tries to include too much. Such a concept of faith implies an emphasis on conventional religion rather than on God. For it is quite possible to fall short of joy, peace, love, light, and help for pain if our devotional efforts are focused in forms and creeds. The tragedy of this poem is not that religious faith is impossible, but that a mechanical substitute for a dynamic belief in God should be assumed to be religious faith. In one sense this poem may have been written before its time. Only a few of Arnold's contemporaries were moved by it in spite of its metrical finesse and beautifully modulated imagery. It is the twentieth century to which this poem speaks its cosmic sadness. FOR DISCUSSION Why is Arnold's shift from religious faith to faith in human love lable to be disappointing? "FAITH AND THE FUTURE" BY JOSEPH MAZZINI In his essay, "Faith and the Future," Joseph Mazzini, almost an exact contemporary of Arnold, is under no such illusions. If Arnold reaches for individual, human love, Mazzini points out how short-lived and ineffectual any human relationship must be that is not based on a profound faith in that which transcends individual whim. It is not even enough to shift our loyalty from the single person to the group, for humanity is only an aggregation of individuals until they are integrated by "an aim capable of embracing life as a whole." Joseph, or Guiseppe, Mazzini (1805-1872) was born at Genoa, Italy.. A precocious young man, he became a student of literature at the university of Genoa, but soon gave most of his energies to the liberation of his country. After a life of activist, idealistic effort in behalf of human freedom, Mazzini was convinced that only faith in God can build a world in which liberty and equality will be truly possible. In the final paragraph of the section we have included in the text, Mazzini describes the advvent of Christ as follows: "He bent over the corpse of the dead world, and whispered a word of faith. Over the clay that had lost all of man but the movement and the form, he uttered words until then unknown, Love, Sacrifice, a heavenly origin. And the dead arose." This is not only powerful imagery; it is an almost irresistible appeal. We, too, feel aroused, ready to justify our rebirth. Lesson Department For Discussion Although Joseph Mazzini wrote his article on "Faith and the Future' almost a century ago, what help might a reading of this material provide for the leaders of movements emphasizing _ individual rights in our own day? "FIRST LESSON" BY PHILIP BOOTH "First Lesson" by Philip Booth lets us see a persuasive instance of substituting faith in nature for faith in God. In one sense, faith in nature can be called faith in God's handiwork, but even such a shifting of emphasis can be damaging, for it suggests that man's function on earth is to adapt to the natural forces which surround him. Some adaptation is necessary, but the person who is only trying to find his place will never know the development which the person who both finds and makes his place will experience. As The Book of Mormon reminds us, natural man is not necessarily the ally of God. We must overcome the world, as well as live in it. "SONNET III" BY GEORGE SANTAYANA Rather unexpected support for this Book of Mormon position comes from a famous philosopher who wrote a five-volume work entitled Life of Reason, but also composed poems questioning the primacy of reason at the same time. His poetry was so much more convincing that readers today still enjoy George Santayana's poetry while almost ignoring his philosophic writing. In "Sonnet III," which follows, Professor Santayana contrasts "the soul's invincible surmise" with the "torch of smoky pine" which is all human 7) January 1968 reason and knowledge can provide. O world, thou choosest not the better part! It is not wisdom to be only wise, And on the inward vision close the eyes, But it is wisdom to believe the heart. Columbus found a world and had no chart, Save one that faith deciphered in the skies; To trust the soul's invincible surmise Was all his science and his only art. Our knowledge is a torch of smoky pine That lights the pathway but one step ahead Across a void of mystery and dread. Bid, then, the tender light of faith to shine By which alone the mortal heart is led Unto the thinking of the thought divine. For Discussion Why does Santayana suggest in the last few lines of his sonnet that only the heart can be led to "thinking of the thought divine'? "FAITH" BY WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN The most famous orator of his day, William Jennings Bryan, next outlines the kinds of faith which a man who wants to achieve must have. In the story which follows. This _ selection, "Jacob and the Indians,' too long to be included here, Stephen Vincent Benét lets us see a young man who exemplifies the four kinds of faith Bryan had asked for: faith in oneself, faith in others, faith in country, and faith in God.

For Discussion List the ways in which Jacob Stein has grown up between his two interviews with Raphael Sanchez. "THE TIDE OF FAITH" BY GEORGE ELIOT, AND "A GOOD NIGHT" BY FRANCIS QUARLES George Eliot's "The Tide of 76 * HAWAIL wan is. Fe. 16 * MEXICO Feb. 16 * EUROPE 16 days to 5 weeks, from $275 (from New York) * TEXAS HEMISFAIR * PALMYRA PAGEANT * ALASKA ADVENTURE For alt travel and ticketing arrangements Ke l TRAVEL we Ny 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 30 4 £8898; 571-032 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 Faith" repeats the image used by Arnold and in so doing shares some of Arnold's problems. George Eliot was the penname of Mary Ann Evans (1819- 1880). Self-educated for the most part, she read widely and became proficient enough in languages to translate both Feuerbach and Spinoza. By 1858 she had written her first prose fiction. With Adam Bede, in 1859, she _ became famous. Despite her unquestioned success aS a writer of prose, she persisted in writing poetry, and a small number of her poems were printed. Today, only the famous line "O, might I join the choir invisible" is widely remembered from her poetic work. "A Good Night" by Francis Quarles, however, demonstrates BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a@ handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2. B55) Zone 5 -80 Zone 3......., -60 Zone 6.... -90 Zone 4... = -65 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 8 owe 1.20 Ews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES TO SERVE YOU BETTER 1. ZIM'S Convenient Uptown Store—240 East 2nd South 2. ZIM'S Freeway Warehouse Near 45th South and Interstate 15 Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, '"Twentyfive Inexpensive Handcraft Projects." DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Dept. R. M. Lesson Department the results of faith in God effective terms. Unquestioning in particularly Close now thine eves and rest secure; Thy soul is safe enough, thy body sure; He that loves thee, he that keeps And guards thee, never slumbers, never sleeps. The smiling conscience in a_ sleeping breast Has only peace, has only rest. The music and the mirth of kings Are all but very discords, when she sings; Then close thine eyes and rest secure; No sleep so sweet as thine, no rest so sure. Note how the long vowel sounds of Quarles' diction reinforce the mood of peace and certainty. The opening couplet and the closing one have identical rhymes, suggesting the very state that the words secure and sure stand for. For Discussion There is a lullaby quality about Quarles' "A Good Night." Why. Beyond the title of this poem, is such a mood appropriate? "THE WILL TO BELIEVE" BY WILLIAM JAMES The final selection for this lesson is taken from a_ wellknown defense of faith by the distinguished philosopher, William James. The entire essay from which these excerpts are taken repays close study, for James brilliantly turns the skeptic's own arguments against him. Note how he warns the reader that if he is so prejudiced against religion that no _ religious explanations are possible, he need read no farther. How, neatly, this puts the skeptic in the position he has so often accused the believer of holding, that is, re- 

77 January 1968

 fusal to consider alternative possibilities. In language that is rarely technical, James very tactfully suggests that skepticism may not be the only position that an intellectual can hold. His most telling point here is that insisting we put off a decision until the evidence is totally convincing, is not to avoid a choice. In such a state we have already chosen,- and we have chosen to say no. In stating that the "faith-vetoer's"' position is "better risk loss of truth than chance of error," he makes the skeptic appear more afraid of religion than the believer is of human reason. It is refreshing to see a beautifully logical mind brought to the support of a position which has often seemed overwhelmed by logic. Belief has never asserted its validity in the face of evidence. Faith, as the Bible tells us, is what we must use when the evidence is yet to be seen. Our whole lives are ventures in faith. We must believe in ourselves to undergo the discipline which prepares us for exacting and satisfying work; we must believe in others if the mutual benefits of civilization are to flourish; we must have faith in a country and a government if we are to live without fear; and we must believe in God if the whole fabric of our lives is to have meaning and significance. For Discussion In the light of James' argument in "The Will to Believe," what might we say to a person who decided to let his eight-year-old child wait until he could choose for himself whether to be baptized into the Church? 78 COOK ELECT RIC ELD) Pots and pans stay ''white glove'' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY SOUTHERN TEMPLES TOUR March 14-23 HAWAIIAN TOUR June 16-29 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 ot * The Toni Safety Baby Chair is without doubt, one of the finest and most useful products you can buy.—It has features found in no other product. You and the babies will enjoy using it. It's that good! %* It is strong and will last for your children and grandchildren. * It is COLLAPSIBLE and saves space at home,—it is easy to take with you to use in the Ward nursery, or when dining out or in the park for a picnic. Beet e eee cece sete eeenesWrite or clip and mail now......... Sceeeeeccecaces Safety Baby Chair Replaces the Hi-Chair %* The Toni Chair is safe. It is made so baby can not climb or fall out. %* Toni is easy to keep clean. It comes in three colors. White, Pink, or Blue. SPECIAL OFFER EFFECTIVE NOW With each Toni Chair ordered a $6.95 You will receive your Safety Baby Chair postage free.: Don Lyman 2431 Highland Dr. Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 Phone 484-8415: Please send sales tax if you live in Utah. Toni Safety Baby Chairs at $6.95 plus Utah * Color * Name _ > White OJ Blue 0 Address Pink () City State Zip eee e eee eer eer ee sere reser esesresveseve eee eee reer ee errr eer eran eeeesnesessseog 102