[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 66 | Lesson | Homemaking The Bedrooms Wake Up Smiling Celestia | J. Taylor]
HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 7—The Bedrooms—Wake Up Smiling Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 OBJECTIVE: To show that comfortable, attractive, quiet bedrooms can contribute to the physical well-being of the family. NOTE: it will be necessary to adapt this discussion to the circumstances of the sisters living in the various areas of the world. It must be remembered, however, that these discussions aim to raise the standards of homemaking and should be adapted with this in mind. INTRODUCTION During the past few months we have been discussing the different rooms of the house in their relation to and their effect upon the family who lives in them. The bedroom, which is our immediate concern, is the most intimate as well as the most personal of all the rooms in the house. It is at once a refuge— for it shuts the world out—and a sanctuary—for it shuts us in. We should come back from that private world of sleep physically refreshed and spiritually renewed. While. Keeping in mind the individual differences of the family members—the likes and dislikes, the dispositions, the ages and sexes, and other pertinent considerations—and the adaptations which may be necessary in each case, we are aware that there are some qualities which are basic to any bedroom if it is to produce the desired results. 66 It should be clean, comfortable, and convenient; it should be pleasant and attractive; and it should insure privacy and quiet to those who will occupy it. THE BEDROOM SHOULD BE COMFORTABLE What is complete comfort in a bedroom today? To begin with, it is the difference between just a room to sleep in and a place where everything is conducive to sleeping comfort. Such comfort doesn't require a large room or an excessive expenditure of money, but it does require organization of space and wise planning of the furnishings for convenience and comfort. Any bedroom can be comfortable if these requirements are met. One of our most modern decorators says, "Many people aren't nearly as comfortable in their bedroom as they might be. And it's not because they need a great deal of money to spend there—it is just because they haven't given the question any thought at all." What you sleep on—the mattress and springs—plays a big part in determining whether or not you will get the refreshing sleep that relaxes muscles and releases tensions built up during the day. You should buy the best mattress that you can afford. Economize on the bed itself rather than on the mattress and springs. Very attractive beds can be improvised at a _ cost which will more than offset the amount spent for the best mattress and springs. The _ best mattress to buy will be the one which is best for you—the one, whether hard of soft, which contributes the most to your comfort and health. The quality of your bedding and the importance of its being just right for you cannot be stressed too much. The size and weight of the bedding, and kind of pillow, the degree of light, the temperature—al! Affect the comfort of the sleeper and thus the quality of the sleep. A noted psychologist says, "Indulge your slightest whim in connection with the comfort of your sleeping environment. Anything matters if it helps you improve your sleep." THE BEDROOM SHOULD BE PLEASANT AND ATTRACTIVE AND QUIET If there is one room in the house where you should be more happy and more at ease than any other it is the bedroom. The more pleasant this room is, the more rejuvenating will be the hours spent there. Good rest Lesson Department stems from more than a comfortable bed, important as that bed is. If the room is gloomy and unattractive, these qualities destroy whatever other virtues that room may have. On the other hand, a pleasant, attractive environment can have a positive therapeutic value. Surroundings which please the eye and appeal to the esthetic senses of sight and sound and touch will improve the quality of sleep and invite forgetfulness of the worries and stresses of the day. Certainly, then, your bedroom deserves to be the most attractive place you can possibly make it. Here, again, the emotional effect of color should never be underestimated. With the intelligent use of color you can bring life, added warmth, and an actual feeling of glow to an otherwise lifeless room, or you can bring an atmosphere of rest and relaxation to one which lacks these qualities. You can even use color to give the illusion of added space to a small room or achieve the opposite result when a room is "barny" and needs to be made more intimate and cozy. To Discuss Discuss available sources for obtaining ideas in achieving color harmony and other decorating skills. Harmonious bed linens, draperies, and rugs add to the restful quality as well as to the beauty of the bedroom. When space is limited, the use of mirrors can double the apparent size of the rooms. The correct use of light and appropriate light fixtures can do much in helping 

67 January 1968

 to create an attractive environment. The more soft materials there are present the more subdued will be the sounds. Soft carpeting and draperies hung in folds rather than straight will also help to lessen the sound. Joints and hinges on doors and drawers and furniture can be made free from squeaks and harsh, grating sound by the application of a lubricant or a little carpentry work. To Discuss A pleasant and attractive bedroom is an individual responsibility. CONCLUSION Since one-third or more of life is spent in sleep it is imperative that the mother make every effort to provide for her family a desirable place where healthful, adequate rest may be obtained.