[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 38 | General Feature | The Home Inside and Out Make a Hangabout Apron | Shirley Thulin]

the Home
inside and out

MAKE A
HANGABOUT APRON
Shirley Thulin

When is an apron not an apron? When it's a "hang-a-bout." These new front coverups are so practical and so easy to make you will want several. The teenagers in the family will especially like them because they are so easy to slip into, and have no middle ties to pull in and crease their no-waistline dresses while they help with Sunday dinner.

This apron is made from a terry towel—nice for the cook who is constantly wiping her hands. Another handy feature is the easy-to-slip-into neckband, for keeping the hairdo in place.

You will need a large-sized kitchen towel or hand towel. Pick one which is bright and cheerful, and one that has fringe on the ends. You will also need the yoke pattern to a muu-muu or other round-necked slip-on garment, for the neck must be large enough to need no placket or other opening. For the yoke, choose cotton fabric of a bright solid color to match one of the colors in the terry.

TO ASSEMBLE

Cut out the yoke pattern. It will usually be four pieces (figure 1). Stitch both front pieces to both back pieces at the shoulders. Now you will have two circles with shoulder seams (figure 2). Turn up and baste a narrow hem ¼ inch around all raw edges of both circles (only turn the ¼ inch once).

Cut off the fringe from one edge of the towel. Make two small tucks in the towel, about two inches from the selvage edge as you baste the towel to the front edge of one of the circles (figure 3). Be sure to center the towel to the front part of the circle. Now place the other circle on top of the circle which has the towel basted to it, wrong sides together. Now zigzag, or bind with bias, the two circles together all around the outer edge and also around the neck opening. If you use bias tape, it will have to be top stitched across the edge where the towel is.

Now your "hang-about" is finished (figure 5).

38

Make a Hangabout Apron

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 1 showing two curved pieces labeled "Front" and "Back" with "Cut 2" noted for each]

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 2 showing two oval ring shapes with "Back" and "Front" sections marked, with dotted lines across the middle]

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 3 showing an oval ring with "Back" section marked and "Tucks" indicated with arrows pointing to vertical lines at the bottom]

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 4 showing a completed apron with decorative trim around the top oval opening and a face design on the apron body]

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 5 showing the finished hangabout apron with floral decoration (roses in a vase) on the front panel]

39
