[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 51 | General Feature | Notes From the Field Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field Relief Society Activities]

51 January 1968

 Denver Stake (Colorado) Singing Mothers Join With Priesthood in Presenting "The Open Door to Relief Society" March 17, 1967 Eront row, left to right: Ruth Silver, cultural refinement class leader; Jean Flynn, social relations class leader; Daisy Carlock, chorister; Elva Wright, Counselor; lah K. Smith, former President, Denver Stake Relief Society; Leona Haslam, Counselor; Eleanor Larson, Secretary-Treasurer; Donna Godfrey, homemaking leader. Second row, left to right: Mary Nielson, visiting teacher message leader; Katherina Belmain, Magazine representative; Sharron Christensen, organist; Mary Lou Mason; L. Jo Gillen, spiritual living class leader. Sister Smith reports: "On March 17, 1967, in connection with the 125th Anniversary of Relief Society, a truly outstanding spiritual 'family evening' in story and song furnished by the stake Singing Mothers and the stake Melchizidek Priesthood chorus, was enjoyed by a full house of families and friends. Following the program, refreshments were served, and everyone enjoyed viewing the various exhibits portraying and explaining the many phases of the Relief Society program. Cherry B. Silver is the new President of Denver Stake Relief Society. Rigby Stake (Idaho) Rigby Fifth Ward Summer Sewing Classes Summer 1967 Doris B. Cox, President, Rigby Stake Relief Society, reports: "The accomplishments of the Rigby Fifth Ward Relief Society seem to be noteworthy. "Under the supervision of Rhoda Jeppson, homemaking leader, summer sewing classes were given to fifty-eight members, under direction of twelve instructors. The classes were in six divisions: 1. Measurements; 2. Pattern alterations; 3. Marking and cutting; 4. Fitting and sewing; 5. Finishing; 6. Style show. "Gauged upon their previous sewing experiences, the sisters were divided into three groups. Those with little or no experience mage cotton shifts; those having some experience made two-piece cotton dresses; and the experienced seamstresses made woolen dresses. "Donetta George is president of the Rigby Fifth Ward Relief Society." Illinois Stake Short Story and Poetry Contest Winners September 16, 1967 Left to right: Patricia Lamb, third place, poetry; Priscilla Berardi, second place, poetry; Edna S. Browne, first place, poetry; Annette Weenig, first place, short story; Clara K. Allen, honorable mention, poetry. Marnette R. Woolley, President, Illinois Stake Relief Society, reports: "In November 1966, rules were distributed throughout the wards and branches for a Relief Society Short Story and Poetry Contest. Deadline for entries was May 15, 1967. All entries were judged. There were thirteen in the poetry contest and two in the short story. The winners were introduced and read their entries at our Relief Society leadership meeting, September 16, 1967. "A booklet containing all the entries in both contests was distributed at the leadership meeting. Because of the enthusiasm and excellent quality of the winning entries, there has been a great deal of enthusiasm expressed for repeating the contest." Bye January 1968 South Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Holds Opening Social September 15, 1967 Standing, left to right: Susan South; Barbara Anderson, chorister; Ardeth Lee, organist; Eleanora B. Allen; Arnold Hillam; Tamera Hinck. Seated: Annalee Allen. Fern C. McClellan, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "A very successful opening social and fashion show was held in our stake. An adaptation of the script 'Speaking of Matilda' was presented. Under the direction of the ward and stake homemaking leaders, 114 models, including whole families, presented the results of summer sewing instructions. "Music by a group of Singing Mothers and a violinist added much to the beauty of the program. A large and enthusiastic audience attended, and we felt they received an insight into the purposes and plan of Relief Society." Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Annual Relief Society Exhibit August 19, 1967 Big Horn Stake Relief Society officers, beginning ninth from left: Lenore Lewis, First Counselor; Hazel Welch, President; Jeanette Buhler, Second Counselor; Rula C. Johnson, Secretary. Remaining sisters are ward presidents of Big Horn Stake Relief Society. Sister Welch reports: 'Big Horn Stake Relief Society held its annual flower, art, and handicraft exhibit in Lovell, Wyoming. The exhibit was themed 'Lovely Things' which proved to be very apt. "Included in the quilt display were an antique bed, handmade quilts, braided rugs, an antique wash stand, with appropriate accessories, a refinished antique love seat and chair. There was some discussion as to which exhibit was most popular, the quilts displayed on the stage, or the two tables covered with cranberry red velvet, used to display gold leafing done by the sisters. "The response of our Relief Society sisters to our displays is most satisfactory. We are continually impressed with their willingness to create and share their beautiful handiwork with others. "A special attraction was a Singing Mothers concert held at the beginning of the show, with nearly 200 voices participating. Refreshments were served by members of the stake board. The event attracted members and nonmembers alike." Miami Stake (Florida), Fort Myers Ward Commemorates Birth of Relief Society, March 17, 1967 Front row, left to right: Fort Myers Ward Relief Society Officers: Adene Doran, Secretary-treasurer; Martha Conroy, First Counselor; T. Godfrey Lawrence, Bishop, Fort Myers Ward; Jessie P. Niedfeldt, President; Annie Harington, Second Counselor. Mary Jane Conklin, President, Miami Stake Relief Society, reports: "A background of the society was presented by Martha Conroy. Organ music was presented by Janet Perry and a vocal duet 'Gonna Build a Mountain' was sung by Inez Nychyk and Venetta Law. Rose Burk presented a pioneer testimony. The program was conducted by President Jessie P. Niedfeldt, and accordion selections were played by Jean Bass. The Singing Mothers participated. Bishop and Mrs. T. Godfrey Lawrence, Fort Myers Ward, joined in the program." 

54 January 1968

 Star Valley Stake (Wyoming), Afton Second Ward Holds Mothers and Daughters Day July 12, 1967 Left to right: Elvira Higley Hansen Lancaster; Nellie Lloyd Roberts; LaVina Hamilton Daughtery; Sarah Pearl Perry Bowles; Elma Welker Draney. Clarissa Merritt, President, Star Valley Stake Relief Society, reports: "Afton Second Ward held a Mother and Daughter Day and specially honored the sisters of the ward who were seventy-five or older (pictured). "These ladies and members of their families presented the program which consisted of life sketches, anecdotes, and favorite musical numbers. Each of the sisters was presented with a corsage and a picture. Light refreshments were served to ninety-seven guests." Santaquin-Tintic Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Spring Concert April 28, 1967 Front row beginning at left: Jennie W. Murdoch, stake Relief Society President; Florence Lamb, Counselor; Beulah Bradley, Counselor; Zelma Clayson, Secretary; La Raine Jones, musical director; Sandra Armstrong accompanist. The theme for the Spring Concert was "Let All My Life Be Music." Over sixty sisters participated, each wearing a lovely flower to enhance the beauty of springtime in central Utah. Northern States Mission, Nauvoo—South Illinois Bi-District Relief Society Conference, August 4-6, 1967 Standing, left to right: Ramona Wiggins, West Frankfort Branch, (South Illinois District) Relief Society President; Imogene Samples, First Counselor. Seated behind booth: Elizabeth Jewel Taylor. Artemesia H. Henderson, Supervisor, Northern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "Two of the districts in our mission combined to hold a most successful three day Relief Society Conference. Theme for the conference was 'Roll on to Perfection—Get Up and Go.' It was held on the Robert Morris Junior College campus at Carthage, Illinois. The conference was under the direction of Dorothy McLaughlin, President, Nauvoo District Relief Society; and Anita Wiley, President, South Illinois District Relief Society. "The first day of the conference began with a tour of the Carthage Jail, and ended with a talent show. On the following day classes for all phases of Relief Society were held in the morning. In the afternoon a bazaar was held. One of the booths is pictured. The day ended with a banquet and style show. The climax of the conference was a Sunday morning testimony meeting on the banks of the Mississippi River in Nauvoo, at the place where the saints began their westward journey." 

56 January 1968

 ~ ORZ VisiTING FEACHING. 2 70 Washington Terrace Stake (Ogden, Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention August 19, 1967 Washington Terrace Stake Relief Society Board: Front row, left to right: Lorna I. Hirschi, organist; Sue P. McKean, Second Counselor; Adelphia D. Bingham, President; Jean D. Tilleman, First Counselor; Donna N. Davidson, Secretary. Second row, left to right: Helen M. Swaner, chorister; Miriam D. Kitchen, social relations leader; Doris H. Knowles, homemaking leader; Edna B. Goodliffe, Magazine representative; Doreen B. Maybury, visiting teacher message leader; Arlene I. Miller, cultural refinement leader. Adelphia D. Bingham, President, Washington Terrace Stake Relief Society, reports: "We held one of the most successful visiting teacher conventions ever. The theme was 'Visiting Teaching World Wide.' Special awards were given to the sisters for achievements in visiting teaching. Washington Terrace Fourth and Sixth Wards tied for the honor of having the highest percentage visiting teaching for the year, and each was presented with a copy of History of Relief Society. "A skit, 'A New Look at Relief Society, was presented and an excellent luncheon was served. The tables were decorated in keeping with the theme and featured dolls, in pairs, dressed in costumes representing various countries where Relief Society is organized. In addition, gladioli in various shades were used on the tables. "We feel it was an outstanding function and well worth all the effort that was expended."