[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 1 | Article | What Do You Want the New Year to Bring? | General Presidency]
1 What Do You Want The New Year To Bring? General Presidency Would you have PEACE? Then have your own soul be peaceful. Create in your home a haven of serenity, free from confusion and disorder. "My peace I give unto you," the Savior said. Accept his gift and do his will in order to receive it. Would you have JOY? Then let the happiness of goodness, of living the commandments, permeate the atmosphere around you. "Man is that he might have joy." Accept this gift with the understanding of your part in making your life joyful. Would you have LOVE? Then be loving and lovable. Do not be afraid to express your love by word and deed. Enlarge your capacity to love by service to others. Accept this gift of love from God who is love. Would you have TIME? Then learn to use the valuable hours, minutes, even seconds, more wisely. Time to do all of the things of which we dream is of our own making. Accept this gift of time. Would your have OPPORTUNITY? Then open your eyes to the possibilities closest to you. If you desire to make personal progress, enlarge your vision, make your own opportunities to study, to observe, to grow. Accept this gift of opportunity and work to fulfill your desires. Dear Sisters, it is our prayer that what you want for your own good, the new year will bring to you. We hope that peace, joy, love, time, and opportunity, together with all the righteous desires of your hearts, will come to you in the NEW YEAR. May the blessings of our Father in heaven attend you. General Presidency The Cover: Winter in Monument Valley, Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Frontispiece: Cedars of Lebanon Photograph by Harold M.

Lambert Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes From Near and Far I want to thank you for printing Birthday Congratulations to President McKay (September 1967). His words on motherhood and the home, and the editorial "Hold Up Your Light," by Marianne C. Sharp helped me to make up my mind regarding a problem in my home. I have been trying to stop working outside the home, and stay at home with my five-year-old daughter, but these offerings in the Magazine helped to show me the light that my daughter should be brought up by her mother and not be placed in a nursery or put under the direction of a baby-sitter. Mrs. Anna Goldberger Van Nuys, California May I take this opportunity to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. We feel a great need for spiritual uplift here in Japan, and the literature of the Church keeps us in contact spiritually with the saints in Zion. We certainly feel that the Relief Society organization was inspired. How wonderful it is for us to share in the gospel with those not of our faith through lending our