[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 404 | Special Feature | Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray | Riggs McKay]
Birthday Congratelatioas @ The birthday of beloved Emma Ray Riggs McKay is a time expressing love and appreciation, a time of gratitude for her prese among us. In this time of early summer when her home valley i radiant with blossoms, the birthday of Emma Ray Riggs McKay be observed. She has been the beloved wife, helpmate, and compani of President McKay for sixty-five years. The General Board of Reli Society and the members of the world-wide sisterhood extend I and greetings to a beautiful and exemplary woman who has expres in her own life the lofty and gracious ideals of devoted womanh Emma Ray Riggs McKay is appreciated by her children as a ki and loving mother who has accepted wholeheartedly the res sibilities of family life and has rejoiced in the abundant blessi that come to a woman in that all-important kingdom of the ho She has created and maintained a gracious atmosphere in many wa Her disciplined and lovely speaking voice has been greatly admi —her quiet words, her precise diction, and her way of finding kindest phrasing to bring the blessings of peace to her househo Her high regard for the proper function of words has been a mar cultural influence—slang words and incorrect grammar not bei permitted, but words used to speak of praise and approbation. In the various phases of her life, Sister McKay has endeavo to look upward and outward. She has sought the cultural influe which Relief Society women everywhere are seeking—the finest highest elements of art and music and literature. Wherever possi during her travels, she has visited the world-famous art galleries has sought to evaluate for herself the significance and the symboli of those masterpieces which have received the approbation of ages. She loves great and good music. Her favorite of the mas works is 'The Messiah"—that magnificent telling in music the of the Savior, the prophecies of his coming, and the eternal mess of the gospel. Literature has been Sister McKay's dear compani for many years, and scriptures have given her and the family c tinuing comfort and enlightenment. It is a far-reaching and exalted thought for a woman to reali that the haven of her home is the center of an ever-widening circle of influence. The sweet spirit of love and kindness and culture has been extended to the many guests in the McKay home, and to the thousands of Church members who have been privileged to meet Sister McKay personally. She has graciously responded to all those whom she has met in her journeyings with President McKay, for she has made communication of attitudes and ideals a unifying aspect of her life, carrying into all her associations the love and the refinement which have always been an adornment in her home, taking abroad and sharing her gifts and her accomplishments. 404 EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY AND CHILDREN Emma Rae (Mrs. Conway Ashton); Edward R. McKay (now Dr. Edward R. McKay); Robert R. McKay (the baby on Sister McKay's lap). In April, Sister McKay was given a special award ""Woman of the Year''—presented by the Associated Women Students of Brigham Young University, to "motivate and inspire women on the campus." A beautiful quilt made by the Relief Society of Honeyville Ward (Utah) was given to Sister McKay on this occasion. As Relief Society women, we express our love and deep appreciation for Sister McKay and extend to her congratulations for her birthday.
