[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 460 | Home | Spiritual Living — Preview of | ]
SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Elder Roy W. Doxey @ We learn from the revelations to be studied this year that, during the summer of 1833 and into the winter of 1834, persecution against the saints began in Jackson County, Missouri, and culminated in their expulsion into other counties of that State. Despite the hatred shown to the members of the Church, they were counseled to use proper legal means to bring about the restitution of their lands. The saints were again counseled through the teachings of the Savior that one should forgive his enemies. Before persecution began in July 1833, the Lord gave some revelations containing many great truths of the gospel. The first 460 revelation for study this year is Section 93 which was received in May 1833. This revelation contains the important truth that in order to worship in truth it is necessary to know what one should worship. John the Revelator's testimony of Christ, recorded in Section 93, provides sufficient information about the Savior to convince men of his divinity. The summary of John's testimony. In this first lesson helps one to realize that our EIder Brother is, in reality, the Son of God. In this same revelation information is given whereby the Latter-day Saint woman may know her true relationship to the Savior and her Eternal Father. The knowledge that man existed preearthly gives the answer to many questions which arise about the purpose of this earth-experience, and the environment in which man lives. The tremendous advantage to a woman of the Church in knowing that she lived before her earthly birth and that she brings to this life characteristics from that world, together with an understanding of her innocence as she began the earthlife, furnishes information which can serve as a guideline throughout her existence. A lesson considers the many facets of this subject that have buoyed up members of the Church during persecution, afflictions, and other vicissitudes of life. From Section 93, the Latterday Saint woman is also enlightened on the great importance of knowing how light and truth may become a part of her life. An important part of this knowledge are the criteria by which she may differentiate between truth and error. Members of the Church know that the Constitution of the United States is a divinely inspired document which set up a government under which the gospel could be restored. A lesson this year is concerned with its LESSON DEPARTMENT origin and its major provisions that give men an opportunity to exercise their free agency. After a woman has accepted the gospel or when, after baptism as a young person, she realizes the true importance of the gospel, she begins to consider how she can best achieve the goals set forth in the plan of salvation. Some of the principles by which one may become a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ are enumerated in a lesson this year. A subject which intrigues the Latter-day Saint is the millennial reign of the Lord. Certainly the imminence of the Lord's coming which ushers in the millennium and the peaceful, happy conditions that will prevail during that time, are the earnest desires of every Latter-day Saint woman. Hope, encouragement, and enlightenment fill the breast of the Latter-day Saint woman who looks with faith to that millennial day. The saints had been driven from the center place of Zion, but despite this treatment, they were given the assurance, known to us today, that God's work will triumph. One of the great prophecies made by Joseph Smith, but little known, is discussed in the concluding lesson of the year. The 1966-67 series of Spiritual Living lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 73—John's Testimony of Jesus (D&C 93:1-20) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman recognizes the necessity for a knowledge of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer.: Lesson 74—Pre-Earth Life (D&C 93:21-23, 27-29, 33-34) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman receives added strength for daily living from enlightenment on the purpose of earth life. 


 Lesson 75—Light and Truth (D&C 93:24-26, 30-53) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman molds her life in accordance with revealed truth. Lesson 76—How to Act Amid Persecution (D&C 97; 98:23-48) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman withstands persecution in a spirit of understanding and forgiveness. Lesson 77—A Divine Document Prepares the Way for the Restoration of the Gospel (D&C 98:1-22; 101: 76-80) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman recognizes the Lord's purposes in establishing the Constitution of the United States. Lesson 78—Discipleship (D&C, Section 100) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is comforted to know that al! Things work together for good for those who are righteous, and thereby she becomes a true disciple of the Lord. Lesson 79—The Millennium (D&C 101: 23-42) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman makes individual preparation for participation during the millennial reign. Lesson 80— The Eventual Triumph of God's Work (D&C 101: 43-75; 103) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks through obedience and diligence to share in the eventual triumph of God's work. VISITING TEACHING MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Messages for 1966-67 Alice Colton Smith @ In 1833, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was three years old and was growing rapidly. Although it was already harrassed by persecutions, hope and faith were strong because the Lord spoke often to the saints through his Prophet Joseph Smith. By constant guidance, admonitions, and many expressions of love and support, he directed the restored Church. In less than a year, Sections 93 through 103 were revealed.