[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 453 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
THE FIELD NM Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Idaho Stake, Bancroft Ward Spring Style Show March 17, 1966 Second row, at the right: Marie Gamble, narrator; second from the right: Virginia Butterfield, President, Bancroft Ward Relief Society; fourth from the left: Elnora Maughan, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, at the left: Lois Rindlisbaker, who directed the fashion show, in cooperation with Karen Modersitski, who stands at the right in the back row; Second Counselor Hortense Yost, fourth from the left in the back row. Arlene Torgensen, President, Idaho Stake Relief Society, reports: "The spring style show was a combination of three workshops which were completed in the Bancroft Ward in 1966. The style show was presented at the anniversary party. The sewing classes were given in January, February, and March, with fifty articles being made, and twenty women participating. The fathers of the children in the front row were very pleased and appreciative of the accomplishments of their wives." 453 Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Anniversary Party — ''A Day of Honors" March 17, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Faye Larson, Counselor, Phoenix Stake Relief Society; Ruth Stapley, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society; Marie Heywood, Counselor; Helen Means, Secretary-Treasurer; Myreel Lewis, literature class leader, Ajo Ward; Ora Bybee, visiting teacher message leader, Phoenix Stake Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Blanche Burr, literature class leader, Sixth Ward, also first place winner in Phoenix Stake short story contest; Ethel Lillywhite, second place winner in short story contest; Evelyn Smith, visiting teacher message leader in Ajo Ward, also a participant in the short story contest; Ruth Jackson, Counselor, Ajo Ward; Emily Barnes, social science class leader in Phoenix Stake Relief Society; Olene Trembath, President, Ajo Ward Relief Society; Francelle Decker, stake Magazine representative; Sybil Udall, stake literature class leader; Thelma Allen, chorister, Ajo Ward; Rowena Root, stake chorister; Leora Jay, Counselor, Ajo Ward. Sister Means reports: "Members of the stake board wore pioneer costumes, and the Ajo Ward Relief Society officers and teachers, from 125 miles away, also came in appropriate costumes, thus being honored to be in the picture. As last year's birthday party was a climax to the stake poetry contest, so this year was dedicated to the winners in the short story contest. Their names were announced, and each sister was presented with a book of short stories. All participants were honored and presented with appropriate certificates. "Appreciation for the opportunity and benefits derived from participation in the contest were expressed by the sisters. "A very clever program titled 'It All Began With Eve,' was written and presented by Sybil Udall. The highlight of the program was a surprise 'Honor Day' for President Ruth Stapley. Her family also surprised her by attending and honoring her. A history of her life was read by Ina Price, which related a life of love and dedication to the Church, and her wonderful talent for leadership, this being the eighteenth year of her Relief Society service, five as ward president and thirteen as stake president. "A lovely orchid corsage was presented each member of the stake presidency by the ward presidencies. A delightful luncheon followed the program, served by members of the stake board." 4S4 Juarez Stake (Mexico) Honors First Four Relief Society Presidents at Anniversary Party March 17, 1966 Seated, left to right: Nelle S. Romney, President, Juarez Ward Relief Society; Maria Maza, Dublan Second Ward social science class leader; Nelle S. Hatch, a former president of Juarez Stake Relief Society; Eva Skousen, who read the tribute to Fannie C. Harper. Standing, left to right: Nilus S. Memmott, who read the tribute to her mother Mary Olive B. Stowell; Elena Ontiveros, Damiana Burgos, and Tomasa Areola, who read the tributes in Spanish. Rhoda C. Taylor, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society, reports: "On the 17th of March, the Juarez Stake Relief Society celebrated the anniversary of Relief Society by honoring the first four presidents of the Juarez Stake Relief Society, which was organized in 1895, having the fourth president Nelle S. Hatch, who had served twenty-one years (1929-1950) as honored guest. The theme was 'Building a Firm Foundation.' "In our stake we have both Spanish-speaking and English-speaking wards. The program was given in English by English-speaking sisters, and in Spanish by Spanish-speaking sisters, the programs alternating with demonstrations of work meeting activities, after which all met together for refreshments. The four presidents being honored were: Mary B. Eyring, Mary Olive B. Stowell, Fannie C. Harper, and Nelle S. Hatch. A skit depicting an incident on a visit of Sister Hatch to the mountain colonies was given, being written and directed by Florienne F. Taylor, the literature class leader of Juarez Ward Relief Society, after which Sister Hatch gave her own testimony. A group of Singing Mothers from Dublan Ward rendered two beautiful numbers during the program. The skit was written in Spanish and directed by Maria Maza, and the Juarez Second Ward furnished beautiful music for this program. "Marza Hatch, a daughter-in-law of Nelle Hatch, was largely responsible for gathering the material used in the program, which she and the stake secretarytreasurer planned and organized. The work meeting activities were under the direction of Reta B. Clark, stake Work Director Counselor, and consisted of flower making from bolillos (Mexican rolls), as well as from paper. Rinda A. Robinson, stake Education Counselor, and June H. Hollie, stake literature leader, were responsible for the dainty refreshments. Decorations were made by Rhoda C. Taylor, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society, and Willa T. Wagner, social science class leader." 


 Millard Stake (Utah), Holden Ward Achieves A One Hundred Per Cent Visiting Teaching Record for Eighteen Years Blanche George, President, Millard Stake Relief Society, reports: "January 1966 marks the eighteenth year of one hundred per cent visiting teaching for the Holden Ward. This record started in 1948, under Relief Society President Louise Stevens, and continued under the leadership of Hazel Harmon, Hattie Stephenson, Ramona Kenney, Beth Crosland, Marjorie Stevens, and Virginia Wood. "There are fourteen districts in Holden Ward, with twenty-eight visiting teachers and five alternates." The picture was taken March 1, 1966. Guatemala-E! Salvador Mission Relief Society ''Cosas de la Casa'"' Exhibition and Demonstration December 1965 Left to right: Berta B. Lépez; Betty Layton; Carmen G. O'Donnal, Assistant to the Supervisor, Guatemala-E] Salvador Mission Relief Society; Marina D. Oliva, President, Mission Relief Society; Glenna M. Hansen, Supervisor, Guatemala-El Salvador Mission Relief Society; Hortensia Torres, President, Guatemala District Relief Society; Edith de Mata. Teresa de Alfaro and Lidia de Gdmez, members of the board, were not present when the picture was taken. Sister Hansen reports: ''Culminating the effort and preparation of several months, were the demonstration and exhibition programs — 'Cosas de la Casa' — given by the sisters of the Relief Society Mission Board throughout the districts of the Guatemala-E] Salvador Mission. Many new, creative, and useful articles for the home were made for the exhibition and displayed on large tables in a U-shape in the various cultural halls. How to make each item was demonstrated during the afternoon to all those present. Booklets were prepared, containing patterns, illustrations, and directions for making the articles which were demonstrated. Each branch received a booklet for future use on work days, and many sisters bought additional copies for their own personal use. The hostess district at each program decorated the salons with large bouquets of colorful tropical flowers, and served refreshments to all who attended. The members of the Relief Society throughout the mission were very enthusiastic and interested in the many useful articles presented. Later, it was most gratifying to the Mission Board members to see many of these items well made by the branches, and offered for sale at their local and district bazaars." South Sevier Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Presents Dramatization "You Are There' at Leadership Meeting March 6, 1966 Seated in front, left to right: Vida B. Hooper, First Counselor; LaVern H. Daniels, President; Susie B. Jensen, Second Counselor; Ruth C. Madsen, Secretary-Treasurer. Second row, standing, left to right, board members: Reva F. Bell; Beth W. Nordgren; Wietta J. Mills; Melba O. Beck; Ercel A. Olsen; Carol S. Lemon; Grace J. Owens; Betty G. Hansen. Sister Daniels reports: '""The members of the South Sevier Stake Relief Society Board dramatized the organization of Relief Society in. A play entitled "You Are There,' at their leadership meeting March 6, 1966. There are seven wards in the stake, each one functioning successfully. Following the stake presentation, a number of the wards presented the play for their membership. The stake board is also sponsoring a poetry contest to which the sisters are responding with enthusiasm." 


 Midvale Stake (Utah), Midvale Third Ward Relief Society Presents Quilt to Former Stake President and Wife Myrtle Troester, who made the quilt, stands at the left in the picture; former stake president Reed H. Beckstead stands at the right with his wife Melissa. Blanche Sager, President, Midvale Stake Relief Society, reports: "Many long hours of devoted work were donated by Myrtle Troester, Midvale Third Ward work meeting leader in completing this lovely quilt. It was Sister Troester's desire that each stitch be perfect. The design is a combination of applique work and embroidery. The quilt was presented by Midvale Third Ward Relief Society to former stake president Reed H. Beckstead and Sister Melissa Beckstead. It was given to show love and appreciation for sixteen and a half years of faithful and devoted service in Midvale Stake. The officers of Midvale Third Ward Relief Society are: President Beverly Brown; First Counselor Zina Olson; Second Counselor Ramona Peterson." San Juan Stake (Utah), Monticello Ward Holds Successful Bazaar November 12, 1965 Ruth J. Nielson, President, San Juan Stake Relief Society, reports: '""Much ingenuity and imagination, as well as hard work, went into the preparation and planning of the Monticello Ward Relief Society bazaar. The theme was 'Dish Towel City,' and as the sisters entered the room, they were greeted by the sight of a series of colorful and decorative displays, such as 'Apron Villa,' 'Pillowcase Junction,' and 'Jack and Jill Land.' Also, there was a candy and bake shop, carrying many attractively arranged 'goodies.' The children were nut forgotten, either, for in one corner a colorful fishpond attracted the children., "'A delicious home-cooked dinner of roast beef was served to approximately 230. Table decorations were appropriate for the season, with strutting turkeys, and Pilgrims adorning the tables." Bevery Thacker is president of Monticello Ward Relief Society. Mt. Olympus Stake (Utah), East Millcreek Eighth Ward "Our Heritage' Anniversary Party March 15, 1966 Left to right: Ruby Richards, as President Belle S. Spafford; Rula Hill, as Amy Brown Lyman; Rosa Fankauser, as Louise Y. Robison; Helen Richards, as Clarissa S. Williams; Belva Ashton, as Emma Smith; Bernis Mihlberger, as Eliza R. Snow; Thelma Fetzer, as Emmeline B. Wells; Zola Andrus, as Bathsheba W. Smith; Marilyn Taylor, as Zina D. Young. Jelaire Simpson, President, Mt. Olympus Stake Relief Society, reports: "Under the direction of Thelda Papenfuss, President, Eighth Ward Relief I Society, and her Counselors Hilda Allredge and Earlena Kimball, a lovely birthday party was enjoyed on March 15, 1966. A large book entitled 'Our Heritage' was opened to reveal each former General President of Relief Society. The original script was written by Ruth Glick and Eleanor Jones. Appropriate musical numbers were used to highlight the program. 'Mrs. America' (Alice Buehner), a former counselor of this ward, was also honored. The luncheon tables were decorated to suggest each month of the year. Each sister found her own birthday table. The true spirit of Relief Society prevailed, and each sister felt thankful for the guidance our organization has received throughout the years." 458 / a \ Lesson Department Ooo NEW TITLES FOR LESSON COURSES ~~ os ee In harmony with the Correlation Program, the lessons for the coming year are being written so they may be presented in such a way that every sister at Relief Society will become involved in the discussion. The titles of the courses, beginning in October 1966, reflect this new concept of involvement. Theology is now called 'Spiritual Living'; Work Meeting — 'Homemaking'; Social Science 'Social Relations," and Literature has taken on a new depth and becomes "Cultural Refinement."