Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$5.50 Remake yourself into a woman your husband will admire! This book is a scholarly and completely thought-out approach to the creation of total femininity within you. These are the principles you must apply in winning a man's genuine love. UNDERSTANDING THE THINGS OF GOD by Alma P. Burton $2.95 A popular writer takes us into the realm of modern doctrine to help us understand God's relationship to man. This well-written book gives us a deeper understanding of the basic truths concerning God — that he lives, that we were created in his image, that exaltation is possible through faithfulness. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Sait Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange California 92669 Enclosed please find check - money order --- Or. I have an account, please charge -..-- Total amount, plus 32% Utah Sales Tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or plus 4% Calif. Sales Tax for Calif. Residents ordering from Orange 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA TOME AED ---20--------00---==" Check Books wanted: - oe —E Oe Nea (] Fascinating Womanhood ( Understanding The Things of God Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah BIRTHDAYS ARE FUN! Whether you're a little girl or a seventy-five year old sugar company, birthdays are memorable. Before we blow out the 75 candles on our Diamond Jubilee Birthday Cake, we want to make these wishes for our many friends: May you enjoy the fun of making sweet treats oo 0) tht for loved ones... U and I Sugar will help with as fine a sugar made, anywhere in the world! Ae: May your days start bright and end pleasantly 10 Ti we _. From breakfast to evening dessert, U and I Sugar promises to sweeten your day! 10 bs. Mar weeny OAL May you have abundant sunshine and rainfall to Qn poe.. And produce a bumper crop of home-grown U and I Sugar. Thal akers, bottlers, candymakers, canners, 4 canal freezers, preservers and ice cream manufacWs. Turers U and I will continue to supply the a highest quality sugars that help make your — products the best of their kind. Ip Te May our 45 million dollar sugar industry flourish and continue to contribute millions of tax Tt, dollars for better schools, highways and public services. - Mo 0