[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 415 | Fiction | Wheat for the Wise — Chapter 6 | Margery S. Stewart]
Wheat for the Wise Margery S. Stewart Chapter 6 Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, realizes after some years that her family needs the blessings of spirituality and religious training. Somewhat reluctantly, Rex agrees to a trial period of one year in which Jennie and the children have his permission to participate in Church activities. Jennie feels that they are making definite progress and that family unity and cooperation are helping them to achieve rich spiritual blessings. @ Even before Jennie put down her groceries, she could tell something drastic had happened to her family. She could tell by the way Rex went out without speaking and drove off with a furious spinning of tires; by the way the white cat Billy had given her crouched under the kitchen table. By Lora's quietness when she went upstairs to investigate. "They had a big fight," Lora said, 'and would you like some hot cocoa? I just made some." Jennie drank the pretended cocoa at a gulp. "Who had a fight?" "Daddy and Lance. Lance is going to run away." Jennie hastily surrendered the. Doll cup and went in search of her son. She found him in the: garage, examining his sleeping bag. "Isn't January a bit cold for that sort of thing?" He did not answer. His face was turned away from her. His fingers worried the clasps of the bag. "What happened between you and your father?" Jennie sat on her heels beside him. She ran her hand through his stiff browning hair. Once his hair had been as golden as Lora's; once it had been as soft as Johnnie's. But now it was as unyielding as his face. "That's between Dad and me."' Lance was growing up. Jennie stood up uncertainly. No probing, she decided. She turned to go.

"But he can't keep me from going to Mutual and being a Scout and going on a mission." Jennie shivered. The father and son relationship, one of the pleasantest in the family, was seemingly in a state of chaos. "Tl ask him," Jennie said guardedly. She made dinner, served it to a silent and heavy-eyed family. No one seemed to want to look at anyone else. Rex did not meet her eyes. He was remote, crisp, and plainly girded for battle. Then Jennie cleared the table, washed the dishes with Sabra's help, bathed Johnny and Lora, and sent the older ones to their rooms to study. The house was quiet. She went into the family room and set up the ironing board before the television. But Rex did not come in to keep her company and she did not turn on the screen. She heard Rex go out again. She ironed shirts and hung them on hangers, fourteen shirts a week... Twenty-one it would be when Johnny was out of the knit stage. "Billy's cat,' which had been officially named "Samantha," and was still called "Billy's Cat," came and rubbed against her ankles. Jennie took a moment to worry about Billy. He had skipped his last lesson. Why? He was doing very well, really reading. He was not fast, he was not always accurate, and his spelling was atrocious. But he could read better and better all the time. His teacher had taken heart and was helping him after school, too. Jennie called Mrs. Wentworth and was rewarded by learning that Billy had been ill, and she, 416 Mrs. Wentworth, had been too busy to call. Billy would be back on Monday. Jennie put down the phone and lit the gas logs in the fireplace. Without Rex, the house — seemed cold and friendless. She gnawed on the worrisome bone of Rex and Lance's behavior at dinner, cold enmity on Lance's part, an equally cold determination on Rex's. The doorbell rang and Jennie went to answer it. Two men stood under the porch light, the bishop and the Mutual superintendent, Jimmy Owens. Jennie smiled and asked them in. 4 "The fact of the matter is," the bishop boomed, "'you've done ( such a good job with your Trekkers that we've come to ask you to help us on another little chore." "Little?"' asked Jennie hopefully. "It's the road show," said the superintendent. '"'We've been a ward for ten years and we've never won a road show yet to make it even harder, our drama director is having a baby about then." The bishop smiled. "With your talent with the Trekkers, we thought you would be a natural for this." Jennie sat back aghast. "But I've never even seen a road show." "I'll help," said Jim Owens. "We just want you to write a ten-minute skit that will win the first prize, that's all." "But if it doesn't win?" Jennie asked, a sudden picture of a ward full of disappointed faces floating before her. "Everyone will understand," said the bishop, laughter crinkling his eyes. Jennie laughed with him. Un- derstanding was sometimes as painful as uttered fury. "I'll ask my husband,' she said. "If he says I may I would like to try it." When they had gone she went back and finished the ironing. She looked at the kitchen clock as she put the board away, twelvethirty. Where could Rex be? He came after another stretch of waiting. She heard his car in the driveway and the sound of the garage door slamming open and, after a moment, slamming vigorously shut. He was still in a bad mood. She braced herself for whatever might be the reason. Rex came in through the kitchen door. ''Can't those kids remember to put anything away!" "What was it?" "Lora's sled!'"? He rubbed his ankle bone. Jennnie put the iron away in silence. Rex slammed the refrigerator door. 'Someone ate the last one to Billy's cat." "Oh, Rex... I didn't know you wanted one. I gave the last one to Billy's Cat." Silence. Jennie stacked sheets. "IT suppose Lance told you," he said at last. "He didn't tell me anything." "Oh." All the wind was taken out of his sails. "Do you want to tell me?" she asked. _"I wouldn't give my permission for his baptism, nor Sabra's."' She slid into a chair. "Ah." Pain found the hollow under her ribs and filled it with ice. She could not speak because of the pain. Yet it was not physical pain. It was a new kind, like a dark knife probing. She thought of Lance's stubborn efforts to learn all the ArtiWHEAT FOR THE WISE cles of Faith. '""Then he can't be a deacon," she said. "That's right." "He'll be twelve next week, you know. He wanted to be a deacon so very much." Rex came over to the table and leaned on his knuckles. "I am not convinced." "I am, Lance is, so is Sabra."' "They don't know what truth is." She looked at him curiously. "Do you?" He turned away and paced the floor. "They are growing away from us." "Not from me." She put out her hand, but she could not say, "You are the lonely hunter." He came back to lean on the table again. ""No baptisms." She said, "It is not the end of the year. Do you insist we leave it all?" "No." He moved irresolutely about. "Only nothing final, irrevocable I am still the captain of this ship." "You are the captain of the ship," she agreed. When it had been quiet for a long time, and she realized that he wanted to end the subject, she asked him, "Do you mind if I take another job?" '"'What kind of a job?" He was instantly curious. "Road show." '""What's that?" She explained as much as she knew. He said, "I can't help you, I've got a class coming up to teach stocks and bonds stuff." She thought a moment. "But you don't mind if I go ahead?" "No, not if you can handle it." He went upstairs to bed. Jennie sat in the silent kitchen. 


 Should she do it? She thought of Lance, who needed something to take up all his energy and his thoughts at this particular time. She thought also of Sabra, who needed a vicarious outlet for her own talents. She thought of the boys and girls of other families, who might be going through far more galling things than she or hers. She fasted and prayed and composed a road show that would include most of the Mutual and all of her own children. The Starr family ate road show, drank it, and swam in it, Rex morosely stated, when he went to take a quiet bath and found the tub filled with red dye and tinting sheets.