[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 48 | General Feature | Notes From the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
47 Directions for Submitting Notes From the Field The Notes From the Field section of The Relief Society Magazine presents through pictures and descriptive paragraphs the varied group activities and accomplishments of Relief Society organizations in the stakes and missions of the Church. All material for this department should be addressed to the Editorial Department of The Relief Society Magazine, and be submitted by stake Relief Society presidents or mission supervisors. Due to space restrictions, not more than one picture from a stake or mission can be presented during a calendar year. Pictures of an individual cannot be used in this department. Due to the considerable duplication of some special aspects of Relief Society work in the material submitted by stakes and missions, the General Board reserves the right to select pictures which represent a variety of interests. Time of Submission The picture, with complete information, should be submitted as soon after the event as possible, but cannot be used in the Magazine if it is received later than two months after the event. Information to Be Included The date of the event should be listed, and the names of Relief Society officers and others who have fulfilled special assignments with reference to the function or event should be listed. A woman's given name and her last name should be used, not her husband's given name (i. E., Ellen Jackson, not Sister Fred Jackson). In the case of a Singing Mothers group, the names of the chorister and the accompanist, as well as stake and ward officers present, should be given. Do not list more than fifteen names for any one picture. The identifications should read from left to right. No information except the name of the stake or mission written lightly so as not to deface the picture should be given on the back of the picture. Additional information may be included in the letter of submittal or written on a separate page. Preparations for Taking Picture It is suggested that wherever possible a professional photographer be engaged to take the picture. In arranging the group to have the picture taken, be sure that all the faces are visible. Seat the sisters in short rows, so that the faces will be in focus. Where handwork or food is displayed, special attention in arranging the background will be helpful, as light-colored articles will not show up well against a light background. Black and White Prints Required Black and white prints, preferably in glossy finish, are needed for Notes From the Field. Prints should be clear, with definite contrast and detail. Color pictures are not used in this section. Do not submit negatives, kodachromes, transparencies, or color prints. Size of Picture Through processes available at the press, pictures can be enlarged or reduced in size to fit the space available. However, reproductions of small pictures are not as effective as those made from larger prints up to 8x10 inches in size may be used. 48