As the opening year of a new decade approaches we send greetings to

our beloved sisters in all the world. We rejoice with you in the blessings

which flow down from heaven upon the sisters, and the blessings which

attend the work of Relief Society.

At the beginning of a New Year, as is the custom, we examine the

prospects for the success of Relief Society activities. We pause to appraise

the needs of the sisters in this exciting, wonderful dispensation with its

sublime and breathtaking accomplishments. We are fully cognizant ot the

wickedness and evil rampant in the world and endeavor to make Relief

Society a bulwark for the sisters and for the guiding of their families in

withstanding the unrighteous temptations of the world, just the same, we

know the privilege of having been born into the world at this time. The

daughters of God are vital to his work in these latter days.

Never have the prospects been brighter for enlarged membership,

greater activity by more sisters, more opportunities for spiritual and cultural

advancement.

Never has the need for Relief Society been more evident. The sisters

need the companionship of other sisters with like ideals, the strength of a

great God-given organization upon which to depend.

Never has the influence of Relief Society been more widespread, more

accepted by others. Never have the women of the Church had more

opportunity to provide the example of righteous living, proper family

relationships, happy, well-cared-for homes, and refining pursuits.

Never have education materials been more abundant, more helpful for

application to living. Never has there been more work to do, more opportunities

for service. The lonely and benighted souls of many call to Relief

Society for help.

Never has there been greater need for women strong in the faithdedicated,

devoted women to carry the yoke of the Lord.

Look back, sisters. Let the past be the foundation for the present, the

preparation for the future. Give past experience full credit for its achievements.

". . . Ye shall henceforth return no more that way." (Deut. 17:16.)

Look up, sisters. Fasten your eyes upon Relief Society now!" ... ye have

not passed this way heretofore." (Jos. 3:4.) Do not let your veneration for

the past rob you of fullest participation and enjoyment of Relief Society

now.

Relief Society is fulfilling its destiny. We are seeing the prophecies as

to its growth coming to pass. May this New Year carry us farther along

the way.

Affectionately,

General Presidency

of Guatemala." I was privileged to be in a group of stake M-Men and Gleaners in 1967

(I think) when Daniel Mich and Brother Tay of Guatemala were in my home town (Provo)

working on the translation of The Book of Mormon. They spoke to our group through

interpreters and told the stories of their conversion and the very story of the dream

Daniel Mich had of President McKay. It was one of the most spiritual meetings I had

ever attended. These men were humble and grateful for the gospel. Although I am

only twenty-two and have been married only two years, I am proud to be a part of

Relief Society and I always read the Magazine and enjoy it. I appreciate the contributions

of t he General Authorities. Anita Davis, Provo, Utah

I have just received my September Magazine, and I cannot express enough all my

gratitude for it. I can hardly wait to relate to my family the testimonies and conversion

of the woman of Guatemala and Brother Daniel Mich, the account of which appears

in Elder Milton R. Hunter's article "The Indians of Guatemala." Since our home

evenings are centered around The Book of Mormon, this will be a most spiritual and

appropriate addition to our next lesson. I thank Elder Hunter for his inspiring article.

The all-too-brief travelogue on Rome by Jean A. Jensen, with its beautiful pictures, is

truly outstanding. I was completely caught up in my fancy and had a most enjoyable

trip with Sister Jensen. The Relief Society Magazine has been a source of strength

and joy to me for many years. Betty M. Embleton, Needles, California

Thanks so much for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. It is always good to know

that no matter where we go in the world the guiding influence of the Church is with us.

it makes me as a Relief Society member feel warm and happy. I wish everyone could

read the material in the Magazine. It could help them in everyday life, as it does my

family and me. Jean Nederbrock, Anchorage, Alaska

I thoroughly enjoy the Magazine. It is like a ray of sunshine for it seems that I always

open the book and read something that strengthens me at that particular time. We as

Latter-day Saint people are blessed in so many ways. I consider the Magazine a

blessing and would like to express my gratefulness to Sister Sue Hedgpeth of Phoenix,

Arizona, for introducing me to the Magazine and for being the influence for our conversion

in 1 968. Now my husband and I and our four children are here in the East,

where it is a little more of a challenge in some ways to live the Church standards. It

is a comfort to have such help as The Relief Society Magazine.

Marilyn Miller, Frederick, Maryland

Today the Magazine arrived with the picture and my poem (November 1969, page 832).

The little girl is so like mine. The soft color is really lovely. This I would frame except

I can never bear to tear the Magazine. Leora Larsen, Clearfield, Utah

We just moved here from Clovis, New Mexico, and while my husband is at Clark AFB

in the Philippines trying to make arrangements for our housing, I will be living here.

I dearly love the Magazine and the Relief Society meetings which I attended in Clovis

for some three years since my marriage. The Relief Society in Clovis is the only one I

have attended and I can testify of its strength. There are many lovely sisters in Clovis

and I shall miss them. I will look forward to the Magazine here in Oregon and hope to

hear from some of the sisters in the Philippines. Thanks for the Magazine that truly

brightens a lonely wife's days. June L. Moore, Klamath Falls, Oregon

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111: Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20  a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not _ $ent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report _ change of address at once. Giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18; 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.