[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 57 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions | Roy W. Doxey]
a 56 Lesson Department = SPIRITUAL LIVING ' The Doctrine and Covenants F L I _ Lesson 103 Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions Pearl of Great Price: Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, September 1970 OBJECTIVE: To increase the Latter-day Saint woman's testimony that the Pearl of Great Price was brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith through divine inspiration and to enlarge her understanding of God's eternal plan. INTRODUCTION In evaluating the work of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Elder John Taylor said that the Prophet had done more for the salvation of men in this world than any man in it except Jesus Christ. (D&C 135:3.) Among the reasons for this evaluation were The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, and, as Elder Taylor added: ",.. Many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit 99 of the children of men. Among these wise documents is the Pearl of Great Price, a book of modern and ancient scripture. It consists of four parts: The Book of Moses, the Book of Abraham, Writings of Joseph Smith (consisting of two parts), and the Articles of Faith. THE BOOK OF MOSES In June 1830, the Lord revealed some visions received by 

57 January 1970

 Moses anciently. (Moses 1.) The remaining seven chapters of the Book of Moses were given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in December 1830. Much is restored in this book which is not recorded in the Bible. The Lord revealed to Moses his dealings with Adam, Adam's fall and redemption, the premortality of men, the period in which Enoch reared a generation in righteousness, and Noah's ministry. From this revelation has come renewed information about the plan of salvation. THE BOOK OF ABRAHAM The Book of Abraham, the second book of scripture in the Pearl of Great Price, came into Joseph Smith's possession in an unusual way. Some Egyptian mummies, discovered in Egypt by Antonio Sebolo in the year 1831, were purchased by members of the Church in July 1835, from their owner Michael H. Chandler, who was exhibiting them in the United States. With these mummies were some papyrus rolls upon which were inscribed ancient hieroglyphics. To the great joy of the Prophet it was learned that one of the rolls contained the writings of Abraham, another the writings of Joseph of Egypt. Joseph Smith translated the ancient writings of Abraham, which now constitute the Book of Abraham. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, Vol. 2, pp. 235-36, 348-51 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) On Monday, November 27, 58 1967, in a special ceremony at the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art, eleven papyrus pieces once owned by the Prophet Joseph Smith were presented to President N. Eldon Tanner of the First Presidency. (Church News, December 2, 1967, p. 7.) The best information available to the Church for almost one hundred years was that the papyri and the mummies upon which they were found were destroyed in the Chicago fire of 1871. The recovered papyri are only portions of the material possessed by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The well-preserved facsimile No. 1 of the Book of Abraham is a part of the collection. An interesting incident in connection with Joseph Smith and the papyrus rolls occurred upon their discovery by Mr. Chandler in the United States Customs house at New York City. He was immediately told, while yet in the custom house, that there was no man in that city who could translate his roll: but was referred, by the same gentleman, (a stranger,) to Mr. Joseph Smith, Jun., who, continued he, possesses some kind of power or gifts, by which he had _ previously translated similar characters. (DHC 2:349.) For many thousands of years the Lord had preserved these writings that this dispensation might have the testimony of the Abrahamic dispensation concerning such important doctrines as the premortal existence of man, the creation, and the priesthood of God. WRITINGS OF JOSEPH SMITH This division of the Pearl of Great Price contains material relating to a revision of the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, and the story of Joseph Smith's ancestry and early visions. In the revision of the twentyfourth chapter of Matthew, clarification is given to the events mentioned by the Savior in the New Testament about the signs of the times heralding the destruction of the Jews in the meridian dispensation and the calamities preceding the second coming of Christ in our dispensation. The difference between the two periods is clearly indicated in the revision of this chapter. (vs. 21-23.) THE ARTICLES OF FAITH In the Times and Seasons, a publication of the Church at Nauvoo, Illinois, on March 1, 1842, an article by the Prophet Joseph Smith appeared giving a short history of his life and also what are known as the Articles of Faith. This account was written to Mr. John Wentworth, editor and publisher of the Chicago Democrat, and has become known to the Church as the "Wentworth Letter." Elder James EK. Talmage wrote an outstanding book discussing these Articles of Faith. Elder B. H. Roberts gave the following comment regarding them: Millions of these "Articles of Faith" have been published; they have been translated into many languages and carried to all the nations of the earth and tribes of men where the New Dispensation of the gospel has been preached. They were not produced by the labored efforts and the harmonized contentions of scholastics, but were struck off by one mind at a single effort to make a declaration of that which is most assuredly believed by the church, for one making earnest inquiry about her history Lesson Department and her fundamental doctrines. The combined directness, perspicuity, simplicity and comprehensiveness of this statement of the doctrine of the church is regarded as strong evidence of a divine inspiration operating upon the mind of Joseph Smith. (A Comprehensive History of the Church, by B. H. Roberts, Vol. 2, p. 131.) Class Discussion Wherein does the Pearl of Great Price differ in its contents from the other standard works of the Church Bible, The Book of Mormon, and the Doctrine and Covenants? JOSEPH SMITH'S FIRST VISION When one considers the claim of Joseph Smith to having been called of God to open the last dispensation of the gospel, one must believe that in the Prophet's works one will find inspiration and guidance to fulfill the purpose of life. The devout Latter-day Saint learns through his study that the contributions of the Prophet to the salvation of men in this world are significant because they raise men to greater heights of understanding and faith. The First Vision is one of the important revelations from God. Its message to all men is such that few can reasonably doubt the authenticity of the Vision. When compared with other recorded accounts. Of visions of God, this one stands out preeminently as of great worth, not only because of its detailed information but also because of its value as a witness to an unbelieving world of the reality of God's existence. Joseph Smith's testimony of the reality of the First Vision is convincing. (Writings of Joseph Smith 2: 24-25.) I January 1970 We learn of the following saving principles from the First Vision: First, the actual existence of God the Father as a personal Being. Joseph Smith saw God the Father "... Whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air." (Writings of Joseph Smith 2:17.) To know God as a personal Being is a prerequisite to eternal life. (John 17:3.) Second, Jesus is a resurrected Personage, separate and distinct from the Father. "One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!" (Writings of Joseph Smith 2:17.) Third, there is only one true Church. Joseph was told that he should join no church for they had all gone astray. (Joseph Smith 2:18-20.) Fourth, men may have the assurance that sincere prayer is answered. I was one day reading the Epistle of James, first chapter and fifth verse, which reads: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. At length I came to the conclusion that I must either remain in darkness and confusion, or else I must do as James directs, that is, ask of God. I had found the testimony of James to be true that a man who lacked wisdom might ask of God, and obtain, and not be upbraided. (Joseph Smith 2:11-13, 26.) In order to achieve salvation, man must "'askGod' forknowledge by which he may walk uprightly before him. (Moroni 10:3-7; D&C 103:36.) Joseph Smith's testimony of prayer and the reality of the future life furnish further reasons for faith in the efficacy of prayer in leading one to salvation. Class Discussion. Of what value is the knowledge of the First Vision to one's personal salvation? 60 THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST Among the contributions to salvation-knowledge from the Book of Moses and the Book of Abraham is the fact that the gospel principles of salvation taught by Jesus Christ were known from the days of Adam. Moses learned that faith, repentance, baptism by immersion, and the receiving of the gift of the Holy Ghost were taught to Adam and his posterity. (Moses 6:52.) The authority conferred upon _ worthy men to administer gospel ordinances gave the same validity to those ordinances anciently as it does today. (Abra. 1:2-4; 18, 31; 2:8-11.) Class Discussion Wherein is the justice of God indicated in the fact that the gospel of Jesus Christ was available to people before the time of Christ? Although the New Testament refers to the gospel among the Old Testament people, most "Christian" theologies have not held that people before the time of Christ had these saving principles and ordinances. Thus, the Pearl of Great Price makes a contribution to man's. Understanding of God's relationship with his children. If one knows that God is a personal Being, the Father of men, he accepts the truth that God is just and merciful because he _ blessed Adam and his posterity by providing them with salvation teachings. As revealed, God created man and gave him commandments, and when man broke those laws, the means was provided whereby man might be saved from the effects of sin. (D&C 20: I 17-29.) Men are saved by the same gospel in all ages of the world. Because of similarities in the "Christian" religion and nonChristian religions, some have claimed that Jesus "borrowed" from other religions to formulate his own. Since the gospel of Jesus Christ was known to Adam, it is no doubt true that other religions "borrowed" from those teachings. A WITNESS TO OTHER SCRIPTURES In a world of doubt and skepticism, many witnesses are provided to aid and assist those who will be helped. The consistency of teachings throughout the four standard books of scriptures is a testimony of the truths spoken therein. Each book of scripture may give a certain emphasis to one doctrine or teaching above another one, yet the similarity of teachings is remarkable. I The scriptures testify that God lives. The Pearl of Great Price contributes to this truth because of the experiences of Enoch, Moses, and Abraham, who saw and talked with God. (Moses 7:3-4; 1:2; Abra. 3:11-12.) CREATION UNDERSTOOD Man's purpose on the earth is to receive greater faith in God and to increase his ability to live the commandments. The Book of Moses and the Book of Abraham are plain in establishing these truths: (1) that every person is a child of God, created after his image as a spirit being before the earth was created, and (2) that man's purpose in earth life is to receive a body and then Lesson Department work out his salvation. An account of the spiritual creation of all things, including man, before they were temporally created is as follows: I, the Lord God, made the heaven and the earth; And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men... For in heaven created I them.... (Moses 3:4-5.) It was Abraham's privilege to behold all of the spirit children of God before the earth was created as their future abode. Among these spirits he was numbered as one who was chosen to perform a mission of responsibility upon the earth. (Abra. 3:22-23.) An understanding of man's purpose in life is known from the revelations to Moses, as revealed to Joseph Smith. Probably one of the most enlightening scriptures in all sacred literature follows: For behold, this is my work and my glory to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. (Moses 1:39.) This truth means that God brings about man's resurrection (immortality) through the atonement of his Son Jesus Christ, and also makes man's exaltation (eternal life) possible in the celestial kingdom. Earth life provides the spirit with a body which will become immortal through the atonement of Christ. Without a _ resurrected body, the attainment of godhood would not be possible. (D&C 93:33-34.) To give immortality to his spirit sons and daughters is the work of 

61 January 1970

 God; to give them eternal life is his glory. (D&C 132:31.) Man, however, may not enjoy his full potential as a child of God unless he proves himself worthy of an exaltation with God his Father. Abraham learned that the earth was the place where man might be proved. And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever. (Abra. 3:24-26.) JOSEPH SMITH RESTORER OF TRUTH The prophet Moses foresaw that in the last days, the Lord would raise up another prophet who would be like him. This prophecy, is given in these words: And in a day when the children of men shall esteem my words as naught and take many of them from the book which thou shalt write, behold, I will raise up another like unto thee; and they shall be had again among the children of men among as many as shall believe. (Moses 1:41.) Joseph Smith is that prophet (D&C 28:2; 107:91.) Many plain and precious truths were removed from the Bible during the period of the great apostasy. (1 Ne. 13:23-29.) The restoration of those parts of the gospel of Jesus Christ is found in the three modern books of scripture accepted by Latter-day Saints. Not the least of these is the Pearl of Great Price from which we learn of revelations to Moses and to Abraham. 62 Joseph Smith was the instrument in the Lord's hands in restoring ancient salvation-truths for modern people. He stands as a witness to the world of those truths. It was his mission to do a work for the salvation of men that would eclipse the work of earlier prophets. (2 Ne. 3:6-9; D&C 135:3.) Class Discussion Discuss: Joseph Smith was a restorer of gospel truths. IMPLEMENTATION The Pearl of Great Price, consisting of four major divisions, gives material from the ancient writings of Abraham and Moses, as well as information from the Prophet Joseph Smith. The divinity of these scriptures is attested in their consistency with other divine scriptures. They give an enlarged view of such fundamental teachings as _ the purpose of earth life, man's premortality, and the antiquity of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Since all scripture comes into existence by the power of the Holy Ghost, by that same power one may know that it is divine truth. (D&C 68:2-4; 50:21-22.) Therefore the person who desires to learn of the truth of the Pearl of Great Price may receive this knowledge by sincere prayer, as did the Prophet Joseph Smith when he sought truth in the Sacred Grove. An individual value from acceptance of this divine record is the application of its truth regarding the purpose of earth life based upon the doctrine of pre- mortality. To know that a. Preearth life as a child of God gave opportunities for progress to immortality unto eternal life provides motivation for working out one's salvation in this life. Inasmuch as this concept includes the fact that man shall live forever, it provides for decision-making in this life. Every decision ought to be made in terms of the consequences of that decision in the eternity ahead, not for the present life only. The reason for Lesson Department and the fundamental cause as to why man may eventually attain godhood resides in the origin of man's spirit he has within him the spark of divinity. Every person who sincerely seeks for the fulness of religious truth will find by accepting the Pearl of Great Price a treasure house of revealed ancient truths which bring him to a better understanding of the questions: Where did I come from? Why am I here?