[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 20 | General Feature | Editorial— "A Little Lower Than the Angels" | Marianne C. Sharp]
EDITORIAL / "A Little Lower Than the Angels" is the great commandment in the law?"' and the Lord's answer, ''Thou Shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul,. 

 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor 

, SecretaryTreasurer ing them the way. He! S the great Exemplar. He even taught "... Do good to them that hate you, and pray for them: which despitefully use you, and persecute you."' (Matt. 5:44.) He pointed out the example of the Father in sending rain on the just and the unjust. It helps in daily living to arrive at the conclusion that people are of the first importance. When one is young and able to be independent, life pretty much centers around one's own person, but the passing of years reveals slowly but inexorably one's dependence upon others dear ones and friends. Friends come to mean more and the tried and true are increasingly valued. The storms and vicissitudes, sorrows, and tribulations beat upon one's life. The time for waiting comes waiting for someone to help, waiting for needed assistance, even waiting for understanding. How fortunate the older individual who has young relatives, YOUns friends who have learned the importance of people and respond to one's needs in willingness and joy. ''It is more blessed to give than to receive"' might be termed the wellspring of those who bless others. Today while life remains is the time to live the axiom "People are important.": In Psalms we read ''What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visitest him? For thou hast made him q little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and One does well to serve one's fellow man and lift him up, for his destiny 's glorious. M. C. S. Leone G. Layton Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Amy Y. Valentine \? Aleine M. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Marian R. Boyer Alberta H. Christensen Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Orlene J. Poulsen Winniefred S. Manwaring Oa J. Cannon Lucile P. Peterson Marjorie M. Reeve Mary R. Young Lila B. Walch Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones I Fanny S. Kienitz Lenore C. Gundersen Zelma R. West Helen E. Lach Elizabeth B. Winters Marjorie CPingree Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Norma B. Ashton Inez 1. Waldron. Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B.