[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 34 | General Feature | Quick Mixes of Your Own Joyce | L. Jones]
Quick Mixes of YourOwn SS ae -_ ~ a a, \. bed. - aa . ~ " ~. Te e. __ ~~ - _ +). =; oe Joyce L. J bes" @ Many of the prepared mixes which we find on the grocer's shelves today had their beginning in the kitchen of yesterday's homemaker. In the hurry-scurry pace of today's activity, many homemakers have turned to the prepared mixes as a time-saver. However, the time saved is not always in proportion to the additional cost of the prepared mixes. By using a small amount of time on a less busy day, the homemaker can mix several of her own prepared mixes for use when time is at a premium. Some of my favorite mixes and recipes for their use follow. WHITE SAUCE MIX 2 c. Dry milk (regular, not instant) lc. Sifted flour 1 c. Margarine Cut in margarine until crumbly. Store in covered container in refrigerator. WHITE SAUCE Place measured amount of mix in saucepan. Gradually stir in water, cooking over low heat, stirring constantly. Flavor with salt and pepper. Thin: Y%c. Mix 1 c. Water Medium: '4c. Mix 1 c. Water Thick: %c. Mix 1 c. Water POTATOES AU GRATIN 2 c. Cooked potatoes (cooled and cubed) % to 1 c. Cubed cheese 1 c. Prepared white sauce mix Layer potatoes, cubed cheese, and white sauce mix alternately in a 1-quart greased casserole. Bake at 350 until heated through and cheese begins to melt. CREAMED TUNA 2 c. Prepared white sauce 1 can tuna 1 c. Cooked peas (drained) grated onion pimento Combine ingredients, over hot biscuits. Heat and serve 34 BISCUIT MIX 8c. Sifted flour Y%, c.

[Quick Mixes of Your Own Joyce L. Jones]

your cupboard. Recipe may be doubled. Mix in large roasting pan. Biscuit mix may be used in any recipes calling for commercial biscuit mix. Y o \ "a BISCUITS 2% c. Homemade biscuit mix 7% c. Milk Stir milk into biscuit mix. (Mixture should be soft.) Turn onto pastry cloth or board, dusted with biscuit mix. Knead gently 2 or 3 strokes. Pat or roll out %2" thick. Cut with floured cutter. Bake on ungreased cookie sheet, 425 , 12 to 15 minutes. Makes 12 to 15 biscuits. Quick Mixes of Your Own PANCAKES COOKIE MIX 2 eggs, beaten 8 all Purpose flour (sifted) SP. Sugar 4% S le milk 4 SP. Salt Cc. Homemade biscuit mix 1% SP. Sod Ad Suga milk to 8gs. Stir in bis. Cc Shortening Cult mix Ix Only untiI thorough} dam bubbles Start to break. Mix dry N8redients together Drop Short a S about 16 ening on top bY spoonfuls. Blend at low Me dium-size Pancakes, Speed of i ixer tip evenI blend d; Scrape sig 4nd bo tom of DINNER. IN. A ROLL bow! Frequent; efrigerate kie mix will keep 6 eeks j 1. ] tbsp butter = your Cupboard. To Measure, Spoon lightly! Aa Ped green Pepper into Measuring Cup, leveI with Spatula If Weather Causes lumps to rm, stir " Cooked Mashed Potatoes with fork before Measuring. 2% Chopped celery or Carrots 2 tbsp. Melted butter Unbeaten egg % tsp. Pepper % tsp, Salt PEANUT BUTTERNUTS 3. Ibe &round beef 3c homemade Cookie mix tsp. Salt Y% . (Packed) brown Sugar Y, tsp. Pepper 1 tsp. Vanilla % . Chopped Onion 2 eggs.. Tyl Nut butter Mix ach of aboy, S parateI ake 1 2 C chunk-style = recipe biscuit dough and rol} Out into 3 Heat oven to 375 Square Pread e Xture on dough j aspoonf about 114" t on un roll and bake hot oven (400 ) for 1 reased cookie Sheet. Press flat with Our and 10 minutes Serve hot with tines of fork ipped in flour Bake at OmMato say 375 about nutes, unti brown Remove at onc to rack 0 Cool, Makes CINNAMON ROLLS about 4 1 gg, Slightly beaten 3 bsp. 5 73. Milk 2c homemade biscuit mix 1 tbsp, butter or Substitute CHOCO-cHip DROPS % Seedless raisins or Chopped dates 3 c homemade Cookie mix Yc. Chopped walnuts 1 tbsp. Milk 'bsp. Sugar I" tsp. Vanitiz tbsp cinnamon egg I IX first Nredients together until 1% . Chopped nuts Oard or PasJ] C. (6 oz. Pkg.) Se Mi-sweet Chocolate i Pieces: eEMaining in. Heat Oven to 375 . Mix first 4 8redients together for fillin ] - Sprinkle by hand Or electric Mixer until s r jelly roll. Fluffy. Stir in nuts an 

35 January 1970

 DATE CLUSTERS 3 c. Homemade cookie mix 1% tsp. Vanilla 1 egg lc. Cut-up dates % cc. Chopped nuts % c. (packed) brown sugar Heat oven to 375 . Mix first 3 ingredients by hand or electric mixer until smooth and fluffy. Mix together dates, nuts, and brown sugar; stir into batter. Drop by small spoonfuls about 1" apart on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 375 for 10 to 12 minutes until light brown. Remove at once to rack to cool. Makes 4% to 5 dozen. CAKE MIX 8 c. Sifted cake flour 5 c. Sugar Y% c. Double-acting baking power 4 tsp. Salt 2c. Shortening Mix dry ingredients. Drop shortening by spoonfuls onto dry ingredients. Blend at low speed of electric mixer or cut in with pastry blender till consistency of corn meal, scraping bowl and beaters frequently. Makes 14 cups, enough for 4 two-layer cakes. To store, keep in tightlycovered container at room temperature. Do not refrigerate. Cake mix will keep 6 weeks in your cupboard; several months, if stored in cool, dark place. To measure: Do not sift cake mix. Spoon lightly into measuring cup; do not pack. Level with spatula. VANILLA QUICK CAKE Have ingredients at room temperature. Use two 8" round pans. Line bottoms with plain paper (not wax). Do not grease or flour. 3% c. Homemade cake mix %q cc. Milk 1% tsp. Vanilla 2 eggs Combine milk and vanilla; add half to cake mix. Beat 2 minutes at medium speed of electric mixer (or 300 strokes by hand). Add remaining milk and eggs. Beat 2 minutes more. Turn into prepared pans. Bake at 375 about 25 minutes. Cool in pans on rack 10 minutes then turn out on rack. 36 SPICY APPLESAUCE CAKE Use two 8" round pans. Line with plain paper (not wax), do not grease pans. Have ingredients at room temperature. 32 c. Homemade cake mix Y2 tsp. Soda 1 tsp. Cinnamon Y, tsp. Cloves Y_ tsp. Allspice Y%, tsp. Nutmeg lc. Canned applesauce 2 eggs Stir together cake mix, soda, and spices. Add slightly over half the applesauce. Beat 2 minutes at medium speed of electric mixer (or 300 strokes by hand). Add remaining applesauce and eggs. Beat 2 minutes more. Turn into prepared pans. Bake at 375 about 25 minutes. Cool in pans on rack 10 minutes, then turn out on rack. PINEAPPLE UPSIDE-DOWN CAKE Have ingredients at room temperature. Heat oven to 350 . Topping: Melt 3 tablespoons butter or substitute in 8" x 8" x 2" pan. Cover evenly with % c. (packed) brown sugar. Over sugar arrange 5 or 6 well-drained pineapple slices and maraschino cherries. Make batter: 243 c. Homemade cake mix Yo c. Milk 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 egg Combine milk and vanilla; add half to cake mix. Beat 2 minutes at medium speed of electric mixer (or 300 strokes by hand). Add remaining milk and egg. Beat 2 minutes more. Pour over fruit in pan. Bake about 40 minutes. Cool in pan 3 or 4 minutes, then turn out on serving plate. PEACH UPSIDE-DOWN CAKE Follow recipe above, making these substitutions: In topping, use canned peaches instead of pineapple. In batter reduce vanilla to % tsp. And add % tsp. Almond flavoring. Betty Jan Murphy Linda and I took our time reaching MIA class on that memorable night long ago. We slipped into the ladies' room to comb our hair, emerging after an interval with appropriate giggles and teenage chatter.... New teacher tonight. As we entered the classroom, we regarded it with suspicion. There were two small tables in the room carefully draped with cloths. These cloths seemed less ornamental than useful, for bulges and bumps tattled the presence of secret objects beneath them. Sister Milton, the new teacher, smiled a greeting and eased the restless girls into the lesson immediately after prayer. This lesson was a practical one on meals and table etiquette. We all listened with interest, but the high point came when Sister Milton removed the cloths from the mysterious tables. Both were set for dinner. But, oh what a dramatic difference! In the center of one table was a loaf of bread, a carton of milk, the salt and pepper shakers, and a bottle of catsup. The plates, glasses, and utensils were not attractive, they did not match nor complement each other. The other table was set simply but elegantly. A modest floral centerpiece of blue and white garden flowers attracted our attention. The bread was on a plate, the milk in a pitcher. The patterns on the china, glass vare, and silver were tastefully enhanced by one another. "At which table would you like to be a guest?" Sister Milton asked. We didn't need to answer.