[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 38 | General Feature | Testimony Meeting | Anna Kivekas]
TESTIMONY MEETING

Anna Kivekas
Nokia, Finland

■ "In the Relief Society I have learned so much: I have learned to be proud of being able to make good food for my family, to take pride in a clean and nice home. Its cleanliness depends on me, on my work. And when I thank Heavenly Father for my children, I also thank him for Relief Society, where I have learned so many useful things about how to rear and teach children."

With bent head and downcast eyes, Beda Virtanen sat listening to the young sister testifying. Oh, yes, it was useful indeed for young mothers to go to Relief Society meetings. She, too, had learned a lot, when as a newly baptized convert she had eagerly taken part in all the meetings. But now, with the children all gone to make their own homes and her husband still a nonmember, and especially since she had returned to full-time work, now Relief Society seemed so distant, somehow, as if it did not concern her any more. Well, she had not been to meetings for a long time . . . how long was it really? Three years . . . yes, for three whole years she had not been to a single Relief Society meeting. She almost wished she had not come this time either.

". . . I am so thankful for you all, my sisters . . . it is such a pleasure to me to come here and to listen to our inspiring lessons. And I am particularly thankful for the sisters who lead the classes. They give of their time and they give of themselves. . . ."

Yes, surely, Beda Virtanen thought again, surely that sister is happy to be here, with those bad legs of hers and burdened with age as she is, I suppose she doesn't get around too much. Why don't I feel the same as she about the lessons, to me they seem just the same over and over again. Oh, why doesn't anyone else? They expect me to testify, of course, but I have nothing to say, absolutely nothing. Good, that new sister is rising, she was baptized only last week, I think I heard.

". . . And particularly I wish to express my thankfulness that I may be a member of the Relief Society. When I come here to meeting it is like stepping into another world, or at least quite another atmosphere. Oh, it is so difficult for me to explain, but you, sisters, will surely understand, when I tell you that what I experience here with you is something I have experienced only when as a child I was visiting my grandmother. In her home there was warmth and security. Oh, yes, that I felt in our own home, too, but at Grandma's there was something more, a feeling of festivity because I was wearing my good clothes, and Mother had told me to behave, and Grandma served her best cookies, and there was a shining white cloth on the table. Grandmother has long been out of this world and it is a long time since I was a child, but that feeling I have experienced anew here in Relief Society. I am thankful that I may be here, that I may learn and develop along with you sisters."

But I am not one of you! I don't learn anything new, I am an outsider, I am alone. Beda Virtanen frowned with violent emotion. Suddenly she became aware of the deep silence in the room. Nervously she looked up and met the gaze of the Relief Society president.

The president nodded to her kindly and encouragingly. Beda Virtanen rose.

"I wish to express thankfulness to my Heavenly Father that I, too, have a testimony of the gospel," she began in a very formal voice. "For a long time I have not been to meetings, but all the time I have known—and I know now—that this is Christ's own Church, that David O. McKay is the prophet of the Lord." Her voice softened. "A long time ago, when I used regularly to attend meetings I felt like you do . . . It was so wonderful here . . ." Her voice became muffled and she finished quickly, "I am happy that I have been able to come here again . . . in spite of all."

The meeting was over and the sisters were leaving, chatting happily. Beda Virtanen delayed her going by putting her books carefully into her bag. She did not want to go with the others, she would have nothing to say to anyone.

"Sister Virtanen."

The Relief Society president sat down on the empty chair beside her: "There is something I'd like to talk to you about."

"Yes?"

"Well, perhaps you have heard that Sister Kantola is moving to another town? In fact, today she gave the lesson for the last time in this branch. We haven't as yet a new leader for the spiritual living class, so now I ask you—the branch presidency agrees—would you be willing to accept that assignment?"

Beda Virtanen was surprised. She did not know what to say.

The president continued: "I have a feeling that in you we would get another good class leader like Sister Kantola, and we will all be happy if you accept."

"Well . . ." said Beda Virtanen slowly, "thanks for your confidence. . . . Do you really think I could . . .?"

"Yes, we do indeed. We are sure of it. So we can trust you to take care of the lesson next month?"

"Ye-es. . . ."

"Good. And thank you. But there is another matter. Sister Kantola has also been a visiting teacher. Could you perhaps replace her in that capacity, too?"

But afterwards Beda Virtanen could not understand why she had accepted the assignments. If she had not been so surprised she would most certainly have refused. But since she had promised, there was hardly anything else she could do than to give it a try at least.