[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 30 | Special Feature | Binding the Magazine Jennie | R. Scott]
Scott Member, General Board of Relief Society @ An opportunity for Relief Society organizations to preserve their issues of the Magazine attractively and yet save the cost of professional binding was demonstrated at the 1968 Relief Society Annual General Conference. Under the direction of the Rose Park Stake Relief Society, whose president is Frances Holtry, and Magazine representative is Doris Hensler, this display was popular and informative. Choose order not chaos Know where on which shelf How to store it? Explore it? Decide for yourself. A permanent soft cover binding for the Magazine was demonstrated, with the use of a kit containing the necessary materials for binding volumes. A binder was displayed with metal rods, sold at the Relief Society Building, and another, a binder of the same general pattern made by using heavy cardboard for the cover, masonite for the spine, and strong elastics for the rods. Magazines with punched holes were included in the display. The Magazines had been taken to an office supply store where holes were punched from the top and bottom as close to the spine as possible. The staples were not removed. Front and back covers were made of naugahide or light poster board. Six-inch by nine-inch art panels (simulated canvas paper for oil painting) were also used for covers. A year's Magazines were held together with one of the following: Ties of heavy cord Loose leaf rings 21," in diameter Fastener of flat metal strips 3" paper fastener (head and 2 prongs) mwOnNr The manila folder box was popular with the sisters who viewed the display, and is an inexpensive way to preserve Magazines. 30 Binding the Magazine MANILA FOLDER Box 4 In the Index tab bottom. Wind a Pipe clea and another jn the middle of the front ner 4round the fasteney heads to hold Paper, if desired. 31 PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLARD LUCE the Home THE RHYME AND THE REASON The battered truck crept up the interstate Packed firmly as a good hard cabbage head With shabby household goods securely bound To place by well-tied cords. No item visible in all that load Of tired necessities but stood in need Of renovation or to be discarded; Each cried its tale of hapless poverty. The flimsy, battered cots that squared the sides Along the load, disclosed their knocks and rust. The occupants, attuned to the slow jog, The gaunt, worn woman and the long-faced man, Passed by with heed for nothing but their route. Then, tightly fastened on the very back To be the last impression the load left, A tarnished sprinkling can, spout slightly bent, Proclaimed the dauntless owner's warm intent.