[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 41 | General Feature | Hobby Features— Clara Shipley and | Grace Ferris]
40 Hobby Features Clara Shipley, of Riverdale Second Ward, Ogden, Utah, has used her creativity and talent to fashion many beautiful articles of handwork. She has made over forty appliqu quilts, and the pillowcases, tablecloths, aprons, and other articles number into the thousands. Much of this work has been donated to Relief Society for bazaars. She is also most gracious about baking delicious pies for various occasions. Sister Shipley had five children. There are eleven grandchildren and thirteen greatgrandchildren all of whom have received loving portions of her exquisite handwork. Ive alee by: parece. Ra # I. Eaten several varieties. Her quilts have graced weddings, baby showers, and other events, as well as bazaars, for many years. In serving as quilting chairman in Relief Society, she has passed her talent on to others who were eager to learn it. Her husband has been a great heip to her quilting endeavors by cutting the materials. She in turn works in the yard with him. She also does her own canning and is an excellent cook. There are five children in her family, fifteen grandchildren, twenty-four great-grandchildren, and one great-great grandchild, all of whom have been kept warm at first by baby quilts, later by large ones. 41 Words for the New Year om a Ward Relet Society President Ruth Osman w The beginning of a New Year is upon us. May we as your Relief Society presidency put to you this challenge: A 'self'? Is not something we are given at birth, it is something we are creating as We live our day-by-day life. Whatever that self shall be, barren or productive, depends upon the interests We reach and achieve. The greatest achievement is the making of ourselves. God gives US a New Year, a new month, a new day each minute, if you will, to take and work something worthwhile into our lives. Can we afford to miss one gift, one opportunity, one second of this New Year? We sincerely pray that each one of us may create our best ''self.'' Relief Society is one of these tools, may we each use it and be able to put our best ''self'' forward.