[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 63 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message— True Conversion Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1969-70) Message 7 True Conversion Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, September 1970 OBJECTIVE: To remember that true conversion entails humility, repentance, improvement, and righteous works to the end of one's life. "Could you say, if ye were called to die at this time, within yourselves, that ye have been sufficiently humble?... Behold, are ye stripped of pride?" (Alma 0:27-28.) "... Can ye look up to God... With a pure heart and clean hands?" (Alma 5:19.) "... Have ye spiritually been born of God?... Have ye experienced this mighty change in your hearts? Do ye exercise faith in the redemption of him who created you? Do you look forward with an eye of faith?..." (Alma 5: 14-15.) One day in a beautiful European city a young and earnest mission branch president told the saints that President David O. McKay had asked each member to be a missionary and to bring one convert into the Church each year. After the service a blind sister came forward tearfully asking, "How can I do this? I am old and cannot see. I have been in the Church many years. I have no friends that are not members. How can I bring anyone into the Church?" The branch president said, 'Sister, 

63 January 1970

 if you have faith and a desire to do his will God will show you the way." Some weeks later, this member went on a vacation that included a train trip. During the journey the travelers who sat opposite her helped with her luggage and cared for her needs with special compassion for her affliction. The sister thought, "What can I do to repay them?" In a few moments she leaned across and said, "I want to give you something for your kindness. I have a great gift to give you, if you will accept it." The new friends smiled. How could this woman, obviously not well-off, give them a great gift? Politely, they thanked her and said it wasn't necessary. She gently persisted. One of the women finally said, "I will be glad to accept it." The member sister replied, "This gift is not of money or jewelry, it is a gift of the Holy Spirit. I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that living on the earth today is one of God's prophets who reveals to us the word of God. This great gift of knowledge I can give to you." The woman, interested in spite of the odd situation, asked, "How?" "Give me your address and I will send to you two young men who will explain." This was done. Three years later the elderly, blind woman made her way down the Church aisle to ask the then mission president, "President, how many people have I helped to bring into the Church by now?" Tears streamed down her face as he answered, "Your faith has helped in bringing eight souls into the Church, the woman you met and seven of her friends and relatives." True conversion requires us to repent of our lack of faith, to be humble, to share the gospel with others, to try and do the will of our Father in heaven all of our days.