[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 24 | Fiction | The Delicious Fried Banana Stalk | Maryhale Woolsey]
The 44] Delicious Fried Banana Stalk Maryhale Woolsey In due time Bill reached his first payday. We were all gathered on the small front porch waiting for him; watching him come swaggering up the walk, wearing an ear-to-ear grin and holding his left hand high, waving a little blue oblong of paper towards us. His first pay check! All of us kids, from me down to Freddie and Katie, had been counting the days almost like before Christmas waiting to see this wonder. But what, I thought suddenly, was that funny thing he carried over his right shoulder? It looked like a lanky, brown, leafless little tree. Oh, it was of all things a banana stalk, with all the bananas gone. '"What's the trophy for?" Papa asked. "I thought when I first saw it, it was a set of antlers; thought you might have been splurging already." "Not me," Bill said. "Didn't I promise to bring my first pay check home so you could all see it? And when I cash it, most of the money is going right into a good old savings account in the bank for high school this fall, just like I've said all along." The grin was gone and Bill's expression was one of sober earnestness. He rubbed his chin with the back of the hand still holding the check. As if, I thought, he was feeling the fuzz on his chin grown longer since morning. Then he added, "This is a uh a bonus, folks. First time the newest employee ever got one right along with his first pay, Hank Burton told me." He marched on, through the sitting room into the kitchen, with all of us trailing after him. We gathered around, watching him lay the banana stalk on Mama's work table. It made a small thud as it turned over when he let go of it. I looked up and saw Mama and Papa looking queerly at each other. "But whatever is Mama asked. "It's to eat," Bill said. "Fried like eggplant, Mama. Something new for supper," Bill finished proudly. "F-fried ?'' Mama's voice was faint. "I never in my life...." Papa spoke up. "Tell us more about this uh bonus, son. Did Hank Burton give it to you, himself?" "Why why, no. He just was the first one to congrad con-grat-ulate me, Papa. He gave it for?" The Delicious Fried Banana Stalk me such a whacking thump on my back, he almost knocked me ~ over, and said to me, 'Kid, you're doing okay, aren't you! A whole month's pay, and a bonus the first clatter out of the box.' And he showed me where it was hanging up, right there by my hat, by the back door. And all the others just about everybody, Papa, came around to me and congratulated me. Even Mr. Lonney the boss, you know." Bill paused as if out of breath, and the grin a sort of remembering grin spread across his face again. "And...?" Papa questioned. "Well just like Mama, I didn't know about cooking banana stalks. I didn't know they were good for anything and I told Hank that. And he said where had I been all my life, and he told me, 'Why, you eat 'em, kid. You sure your mother hasn't fed 'em to you sometimes, without you knowing?' "' Bill paused, his eyes remembering. "I said I guessed I'd know a long thin crooked thing like a banana stalk, any time. And then Hank said heck, it won't look like that when it's all cooked, because it's in little slices. Sliced and parboiled and dipped in egg and crumbs and then fried, allee samee eggplant; see? And if we folks at our house '-hadn't ever tasted delicious fried banana stalk, well, we've really been missing some treats. I asked him if you salt and pepper it, and he said oh, sure, of course. And then he offered to help me carry it home, but I said I could do that all right myself. And I said thank you, Hank. And and that's all, I guess. You can cook it part of it, I mean, tonight, Mama, can't you?" 

25 January 1970

 "I'll try, Bill, though I must say, I never in my whole life knew of anybody cooking banana stalk." "Oh, that's all right, Mama. I guess there's lots of things we never heard of, out here in the sticks," Bill said reasonably: "Did you ever know anybody cooking oysters on a half a shell, either? I bet not. Well, I read in a book once, about folks in a real swell hotel ordering oysters on a half a shell; it was in New York or someplace grand like that. I guess we can try fried banana stalk, can't we?" Mama shook her head, looking doubtfully into his earnest gaze. "A banana stalk is just wood, Bill dear. Wood isn't to eat." "Look, Mama, just because we haven't ever tried it, does that prove anything? Look, it's my bonus. I earned it by being an extra-good worker. If I go slice it, now, you will cook it, won't you, Mama? Please!" Bill coaxed. "Of course she will," Papa said. His voice was sort of choked up. "You go right out and slice it. Use my small saw, if you need to, and I'll get the fire going good and hot, and some water ready to parboil it. Bill is right, Mama. He earned that bonus, and the least we can do is be willing to try his uh something new to eat." Mama nodded. "You're right, dear, Bill, too. Go ahead, Baill, cut a good batch of slices, and I'll do my best to cook them right." Happy again, Bill shouldered his banana stalk and went out back to the summer kitchen. Mama said to Papa, in a low but indignant tone, "That Hank Burton! He he ought to be 26 spanked. Bill's so innocent, so trusting." "Never mind, dear. He'll live through it, you'll see. I'll go bring in some wood." Freddie and Jimmy followed him out. Something in their voices puzzled me. But Katie was calling me from the sitting room. I was supposed to be helping her make a new dress for her favorite doll. I went to her, and for the next half-hour she kept me busy, but over her chatter I kept hearing Bill's peculiar tuneless whistle, punctuated with little jerks and swells and pauses that measured his exertions as he worked. I heard, too, the clatter of kettles and pans as Mama got things out, preparing to start cooking. And when Papa came in and dumped an armful of wood into the woodbox, I caught some words he said to Mama: "Better see we have plenty of stuff to go with our fried banana stalk, Lib." "That's what I was thinking, too," Mama responded. "I'm starting a chocolate cake. That will make a good ending, no matter what else." Katie said, "I'm tired of sewing now. I'm going out and run and TUM. An." I wandered back into the kitchen. 'Can I set the table now, Mama?" "It's kind of early, but I guess not too. Yes, go ahead, dear." I breathed a big sigh of relief. Setting the table was the one way I could be sure of remaining in the kitchen and that was something I wanted terribly to do. I wanted to see what was going to happen; something was, I felt sure. All that looking at each other, the way Mama and Papa looked, had made me excited and eager and, yes, a little bit afraid. What was so queer about a banana stalk? I dawdled over the table setting, placing the plates and the knives and forks and drinking glasses with such meticulous attention to spacing, that Mama might have wondered and questioned me, if she hadn't been so busy. Bill was back presently, with a milk pan full of dark drippy rounds about an inch thick, I guess; they were a kind of dark mustard color with darker streaks in them. "IT washed 'em, Mama, so they're all ready to start the cooking. Gee... You making chocolate cake, too? That's fine, Mama." She slipped the cake pans into the oven, then dumped the banana stalk slices into her big kettle where water was already boiling. "I wonder how long they need to parboil... Did Hank say anything about that?" "No, but well, you stick a fork in potatoes and things, don't you to tell when they're cooked? I should think." "I guess so,' Mama _ said hastily. She began fixing creamed leftover potatoes and peas, and sliced some ham. Bill stuck by her, wanting to help, but mostly getting in her way until she thought of letting him beat the eggs and roll dried crumbs for the "egg and crumb dip." On the platter they looked good. I guess you could fry