THE SAVING OF GRAIN.
	THE grain question at the present time
should be seriously considered, and the
counsel given by President Brigham Young
in 1876 practically carried out by the women
of this Territory, and especially should the
cash now on hand to buy wheat be used
for that purpose while grain is so cheap.
	In the reports sent to the last Quarterly
Conference from the branches of the Relief
Society in this Stake we noticed particularly
the item wheat cash or cash to buy wheat
and it made quite a considerable sum. Let
this be put into wheat and if next year
there is an abundant harvest no harm is
done, and the wheat stored can be changed
for new wheat if considered wise and an
allowance made for shrinkage. But if the
crickets and grasshoppers should destroy
the crop next year as now seems probable
in many parts of the country, it would be
a source of satisfaction to have wheat in
the bins instead of cash in the coffers.
	What will apply to the sisters in this
county will apply with equal force and
weight in other counties, and those who
preside should see to it that the money
given expressly for grain should be used
while there is wheat to purchase, and not
let the opportunity be lost. Women who
have known  the pangs of hunger, and
whose children have cried for bread when
there was none to give them, must realize
what an important matter this is, and
should urge upon those who are careless
and indifferent to make hay “while the sun
shines” and not be too sure that there will
always be a bountiful harvest in time to
come. The older sisters will remember
the editorial approved and added to by
President Young in October 1876, but for
the benefit of those who never read it, and
as a forcible reminder to all, we republish
his counsel given to the sisters at that time,
in the hope that it will awaken those who
have means to buy up and save the wheat
that is being sold out of the Territory, that
there may be an ample supply of bread on
hand for all, should the harvest be less
abundant another year. Sisters be warned
in time and remember there is no famine
like the want of bread. We who lived
here in the early days know when gold or
silver would not purchase flour, and when
a loaf of bread was far more desirable than
a handful of gold dust. There are many
tales of suffering for bread that might be
told effectively, to some of the young people
born here and raised in comparative luxury,
who know little of the sacrifices made and


privations endured by those who settled
these mountain vales. Indeed it might be
well occasionally to speak of those other
times, those days of adversity and trial
through which the people passed in re-
claiming this desert land and making homes
in which to dwell. The Lord has wonder-
fully blest the labors of their hands, and
the children as well as the parents, the
pioneers of the country have reason to be
grateful to our Father in heaven, whose
bounties they continually and so freely
partake.


