REPRINTED FROM EXPONENT OCT. 15, 1876.

	AT the suggestion of President Brigham
Young we would call the attention of the
women of this Territory to the subject of
saving grain. It is one important item
which President Young has labored diligent-
ly to impress upon this people ever since
their residence in these valleys. His ad-
vice has ever been to the brethren to culti-
vate the soil and let the mines, and mining
speculations alone, for the grain was of
more consequence than gold or silver. And
these people are witnesses to that fact;
practically having experienced the scarcity
of provisions and especially of breadstuffs,
in the earlier settlement of this country.
	The Lord has blessed this people
abundantly in the few years past in their
fields and in their stores of grain and pro-
visions; and as in almost every other case
when there is a profusion of blessings, the
people who receive them become indifferent
and do not appreciate them as they ought.
The people have been careless in regard to
taking care of their grain and many other
things. In many instances they neglect
to pay their tithing, and dispose of their
products in such a manner as, were it to
continue, the Lord would be sorely dis-
plea ed with them. This year grain is un-
usually low, yet the grasshoppers have
been visiting different parts of the Territory,
and, it is feared by many, have laid their
eggs; therefore it is more than ever essen-
tial that such measures be taken as will
secure the grain now in market. The
Relief Societies and Co-operative organiza-
tions in which some of the women of this
Territory are interested, have funds at their
disposal from time to time, which can be
made available to carry out President
Young’s wishes in regard to buying and
taking care of the grain.
	It is no doubt the best investment of
means that could possibly be made, for if
the prophecies of the Scriptures, both
ancient and modern, and of Joseph Smith
are to be fulfilled, which the Latter-day
Saints profess to believe, there will be a deso-
lating famine in the land; and if the wo-
men of this Territory will be wise, and
hearken to the counsel given to them now,
there is no doubt that the result will be an
eminent success. If the means now on
hand in the societies and women’s associa-
tions can be turned into grain, and such
measures taken to store it and preserve it
from damp and all other things that would
damage, or destroy it, as can be made
practicable according to circumstances and
advantages, then one point will be gained
towards the temporal salvation of this
people in case of emergency.
	In whatever women undertake they are
generally earnest, and our advice would be
immediately without any delay (except such
as is unavoidable) to commence to carry
[Column 2]
out President Young’s counsel in this mat-
ter. Where there is a will there is (almost
invariably) a way, and in this matter there
should be a personal and individual as well
as a general interest. In order to satis-
factorily accomplish any scheme one great
object is to be in earnest; on this earnest-
ness depends much of the success of what-
ever enterprise is undertaken. If you de
termine to do anything of whatever name
or nature, first be sure it is the proper thing
to do, and then without losing time, bring
your energies into immediate requisition
and you are almost sure to succeed.
	The women of this Territory are capable
of carrying out President Young’s counsel
in this matter; and if they do not they will
be left without excuse; he has called upon
the brethren until he has become wearied,
and now he appeals to the sisters Is not
this a proof of his confidence in their de-
sire to listen to counsel? The sisters will
have ample opportunity now to prove their
ability in financiering; and it is greatly to
be hoped that they will manifest such
earnestness in this matter as cannot fail to
accomplish the desired object.
	President Young further advises the
sisters, that they enter into such arrange-
ments, as are applicable to their circum-
stances in their various districts and settle-
ments, to build store-houses for the storing
of their grain in the sections of country
as they shall divide off, or apportion to cer-
tain localities; also that they solicit dona-
tions from their husbands and the brethren,
to assist them in carrying out this enterprise;
both for the building of the store-houses
and also in obtaining grain to fill them and
preserve it for future need.
	We sincerely hope that what has been
said will be sufficient to arouse a spirit of
determination in the minds of the women
of Utah, to devise and to put in practice,
such measures as shall be economical and
wise, and for the general good of all con-
cerned.


