THE WAR OF 1812.

[Concluded.]
	Mr. Madison thought, to appoint Henry
Clay commander in chief of the armies,
but that gentleman’s lack of military
knowledge totally unfitted him for the
position. Later there were appointed
Henry Dearborn, who had been a major
in the first war, and had served in Jef-
ferson’s cabinet,  commander in chief, and
associated with him as Brigadier, Generals
were James Wilkinson, Wade Hampton,
William Hull and Joseph Bloomfield, and
Thomas Pinckney Major-general.
	The intention had been to invade Canada
and annex it to the United States.
	The patriots said, “If we defeated Eng-
land with half our present population be-
fore, we can now drive all English from
America.’’
	The regular army at the beginning of
the war scarcely amounted to 5,000 regulars,

[Column 2]
so the president was empowered to call for
50,000 volunteers and 100,000 militia; but
some of the states refused to accede to this
demand much to the distress of the country.
	General Hull was placed in command of
the North Western army and to him the
conquest of Canada. If Arnold was a
traitor in the first war, Hull was a laggard in
the war of 1812. To his timidity and
unofficerlike conduct (for which he was
afterward courtmartialed and only saved
from death by the President) can be at-
tributed the loss of Canada.
	Thus the British gained power which was
not regained again in the north by the
Americans. The war in the north was
afterward, waged by Winfield Scott but in
the main was unsuccessful.
	The American soldiers seemed to lose on
the Canadian Side all the courage which so
marked them while defending their country.
While battle after battle was lost on land,
the American vessels were signally suc-
cessful on sea, meeting and almost
invariably defeating larger ships carrying
more guns than the redoubtable little ves-
sels of the United States.
	The “Constitution” carrying forty-four
guns, was in July chased by a whole
squadron of English Men of War and
afterwards retaliated by sinking the
“Guerriere” in a conflict of forty-five
minutes.
	This victory brought renown to the name
of Hull which had almost become a by-
word in the United States, and placed our
navy among the successful navies of the
world.
	General Dearborn never led the army into
a conflict in person; and seemed to have
planned but weakly.
	Congress withheld taxes and supplies for a
year awaiting the results of a Presidential 
election.
	The generals selected were from the
generations of people who had not been in
war, consequently many were undeserving
and incompetent. Yet a number of the
officers won renown for themselves and
country.
	Now the English claimed in a manifesto
they were reluctantly drawn into this war,
and that America had always shown sub-
servance to France and a hostility to
England.
	This manifesto was answered by Presi-
dent Madison in a most Patriotic and
Masterly address, delivered on his second
inauguration.
	The war of 1812 was by far one of great-
er moment and in the whole had greater
victories than the preceding year.
	Commodore Perry’s victory over the
English Squadron on the lakes, Generals
Harrison and Jackson’s great victories on
land were matters that sustained the fire of
patriotism and gave confidence to American
Arms.
	Passing hurriedly to the close we find the
English before New Orleans, confronted
by General Andrew Jackson and in one of
the most terrible battles fought during
tie campaign, defeated the English,
virtually ending the war.
	Meanwhile the British Government had
become weary of continuing a war, at
once so disastrous to interests and fatal to
her prestige had appointed Lord Gambier,
Henry Goulburn, and William Adams to ’ 
negotiate with Messrs. Adams, Clay,
Bayard, Gallatin and Russell of the United
States upon a treaty of peace.


