NEEDLE WORK GUILD OF
			AMERICA.
	THE Needlework Guild was organized
ten years ago, in England, by Lady Wol-
verton, “with a machinery of such beauti-
ful simplicity that it could be a burden to
no one, and the condition of membership,
only two new useful articles of clothing a
year, was so small a demand that the
society became popular immediately.
The elements of popularity and steady
growth were in its very structure—no caste,
no sect, no hampering prejudices.” Since
then the work has spanned the Atlantic
and stretches almost from ocean to ocean,
across this fair land of ours.
		SALT LAKE BRANCH.
	Through the efforts of Mrs. W. A. Nel-
den, we ladies of Salt Lake City have be-
come interested in it, and the few gathered
in Mrs. Nelden’s parlor one warm after-
noon in May, 1893, have increased to an
army of 550 workers, called the Salt Lake
City Branch of the Needlework Guild of
America. A branch consists of ten sections,
with an honorary president, president,
secretary and treasurer. Each section
must have at least five (5) directors, one of
whom shall be president and one secretary
of the section. Each of these five pledges
herself to obtain ten others, who shall
promise to contribute two new garments a
year, making twenty-two (22) garments,
or one hundred and ten (110) for each sec-
tion. Each ten send in their garments in
October to their director; by the directers
they are sent to the presidents of the
sections, and by the presidents sent to a
specified place and there distributed accord-
ing to the vote of the officers and directors
to the needy and destitute in hospitals,
orphanages, homes and among the poor,
making in all a distribution of eleven
hundred (1100) good, strong, new articles
of clothing. The work is so simple, yet so
far reaching in its beneficence; so easy, yet
so great in its accomplishments, that we
should each feel glad to be one of its work-
ers, and make of our branch a telling
power for good in this city and throughout
the Territory.
	Notices have been sent to all the known
charitable institutions in the city, which
have been generally responded to. From
the two Orphanages, the Day Nursery on
State street and St. Ann’s, comes the call
for hundreds of garments, anything
wearable from shoes to caps, for seventy-
[Column 2]
five children ranging from six months to
fifteen years of both sexes; for comforters,
bed and table linen also.
	The Young Ladies’ Aid Society’s need
boys’ suits and flannel underwear, girls’
dresses and flannel underwear, men’s un-
derwear, women’s underwear, and outfits
for infants, also shoes and stockings of all
sizes.
	The Rescue mission, men—clothing of
all description for men from sixteen to
sixty years of age; also small bed ticks,
sheets and pillow-slips.
	The Rescue mission, women—dresses,
underwear, shoes and stockings for women,
comforters, bed and table linen.
	Newsboys’ home—bed and table linen
and all kinds of boys’ clothing.
	In addition to these the destitute and
needy of all classes, to whom a new gar-
ment may bring a blessing, and help more
to uplift morality than many gifts of old
clothes from the attic.
