OBITUARIES.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Mary Cooper Oakey
who departed this life March 28th, 1893, at Dingle,
Bear Lake Co. Idaho. She was born March 25,
1812, at Brumsley, Nottinghamshire, England.
She joined the Church in 1849 Emigrated to
Utah 1862. Came to Paris, Bear Lake in 1865 and
was a teacher in the first Relief Society organized
in Bear Lake Valley she moved to Dingle 1873,
and held the office of first counselor to the Relief
Society at the time of her death.
	Whereas it has pleased God our Heavenly
Father to call from our midst our beloved sister
and friend at a good old age.
	Therefore be it resolved by the members of the
Dingle Relief Society that while we feel sad at
parting with our sister we will remember her
earnest exhortation, and practical faith in her
religion.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to her family also published in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and the same be placed upon the
Record of the Relief Society.


Weep not that her toil is over,
Weep not that her race is run.
Committee
JANE A. SPARKS, Prest.
MARY ANN NATE,
SARAH DAYTON.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	IN memory of Emily Worthrop Woodard who
died in Kamas, July 12th, 1893; aged 86 years,
6 months and 5 days. Grandma Woodard, as
she was lovingly called, was born in Milford,
Conn. Embraced the Gospel in 1840,in Kirtland,
Ohio and emigrated to Utah with her family in
1847. She was a member of the first Relief
Society in Nauvoo and was a faithful member of
the Kamas Relief Society and was ever ready to
bless and comfort the sick and sorrowing, and,
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His wisdom has
seen fit to call from our midst our beloved sister.
	Therefore be it resolved that we the members
of the Relief Society emulate her humble and
faithful example.
	Resolved that we present a copy of these
resolutions, to the bereaved family, with our
sympathy for their loss, of a kind and loving
mother, and wise counselor, and that a copy be
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and a copy
be placed on the record of the Relief Society.
ANN HARDER, Prest.
SARAH HARDER, Ass't. Sec.


