MOTHER CROWDED OUT.

	“AFTER a mother is fifty years old there
is no longer any room for her in the world,
and she ought to die.” The words were
bitter, but they were not bitterly spoken.
Rather, the intonations of the patient voice
were plaintive, and the care-lined face of the
elderly woman who uttered the sentiment
wore no look of protest. Instead, there 
was in it an expression of resignation, of
acquiescence in something that must be ac-
cepted and endured.
	Thinking of many aged mothers, loved
to idolatry by the men and women who are
their “bairns” still, albeit some of them 
have silver hair and bent shoulders; think-
ing of the middle-aged, who bear as un-
questioned a scepter as when their babies
were in the nursery, though these are now
“young people,” with the hopes and
aspirations of the young; I wondered
whether my friend were not a solitary suf-
ferer. Observation has convinced me to
the contrary, and it is my conviction that
somebody should uplift a note of warning
in the ears of thoughtless, not heartless,
daughters.
	“The wind is in the east this morning,”
said a girl at the breakfast table, with a
significant glance around at her brothers
and sisters, and a little pucker of the mouth
in the direction of the matron, whose hand
trembled a little as she poured out the
coffee.
	“Your mother is very tired and evidently
not well,” ventured an acquaintance, later,
when a “mother’s irritability” was freely
discussed in her hearing by these young
people. “That may be,” said one of them
lightly, “but she needn’t be so cross. We
are all willing to do our share in helping
her, but she does not know that the world
has moved since her day.”
	Neither did the young daughter realize
that, however far the world may have
moved since her mother’s “day,” it never
has moved, and never will, from the shadow
of the fifth commandment. I have a stand-
ing quarrel, too, with the statement that a
person’s “day” is pre-eminently her day of
youth. There is a “day” for forty, for
sixty, for eighty, and each "day" is as im-
portant and as honorable, if well spent, as
the other—the latter as gloryful as the
earlier. There is one beauty of the rose-
buds and another beauty of the ripened
wheat, and another, again, of the snow-
flakes.


But, of course, I know what girls mean
when they talk of the old people who have
had their day. And I am always greatly
perplexed and troubled when I see that the
effect of education, in a wider sense than
the mother knew, has been to make the
younger look down upon, or patronize, the
elder woman. The plain mother has made
sacrifices, some of them very heavy, to
obtain for her children the opportunities
and advantages of the best schools. She
has toiled early and late, spent lonely
hours, felt in her soul at times humiliating
depression because she could not keep
pace with her children, and it is, pardon
me for saying it, simply low and mean for
her daughters ever to snub her, or to be
impatient with her, or to maneuver to keep
her in the background.—Ex.
