IN MEMORIAM.
	WITH profound sadness we record the death of
another of God’s noble women, Sister Lydia Ann
Jolley the beloved wife of Elder Williamson
Westley Jolley, and loving daughter of Brother
John Brimhall and Sister Annaretta Harris Brim-
hall. Sister Lydia Ann departed this life March
28th 1893, after suffering intensely for several
months with cancer in the stomach. She was
born September 19th, 1851, at Payson, Utah Co,
and was married March 31st, 1866 to Elder Wil-
liamson Westley Jolly, by whom she had ten
children, nine of whom are living, she has ever
been a faithful wife and mother and an earnest
worker in the cause of truth. She was selected
as treasurer in the first organization of this Relief
Society which was effected April 1st, 1877, and in
March 4th, 1883 was chosen as Counselor in this
Relief Society which position she honorably held
at the time of her death. She was a model wife,
mother and house-keeper. Her home, the place
where she displayed those charming attributes of
character that made it a paradise on earth, to
those with whom she was thus associated. She
was a faithful saint in the full sense of the term;
no sacrifice was too great for her to make for the
Gospel’s Sake. She was loved and respected by
all who knew her.
	She suffered greatly but never murmured,
through her last illness she manifested unbounded
faith in the ordinances of the Gospel. Surround-
ed by her husband and children by her parents,
her brother and sisters and a host of friends, her
every, wish was anticipated. Everything that love
and sympathy could do was lavished upon her;
but prayers and tears were unavailing to prolong
her earthly career. God in his infinite wisdom
had called her home. The parting ordeal was
very severe especially for the heart broken hus-
band who scarcely left her bedside during all the
latter part of her illness. Sister Lydia Ann's
nature was purely domestic, home was the place
she adorned, and no truer wife and mother ever
lived. May the Holy Spirit be with the bereaved
ones to comfort them in their hour of trial and
prepare them for the joyful reunion awaiting
them She died as she had lived: firm in the
principles of the gospel, in the hope of a glorious
resurrection.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord!”
		CYNTHIA ANN JOLLEY, President.
		EFFIE S. JOLLEY,Asst. Secretary.


