WAYNE STAKE.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	WAYNE STAKE was organized May 27th
and 28th, 1893. Apostles F. M. Lyman
and M. W. Merrill being present. Apostle
F. M. Lyman presiding. Our stake Presi-
dency are William E. Robinson President,
Hans Hanson and Gastian Bastian Coun-
selors, they are very good kind men, and
are much esteemed by the people.
	The Presidency of the Relief Society of
Wayne Stake are Jane S. Coleman, Presi-
dent, Mary Ellen Hanks and Sarah S.
Forsythe Counselors, Florence M. Williams
Secretary. After the Stake organization
myself and Counselors considered it best
to visit each R. S. in the Stake and hold
meetings with them and get acquainted, that
a united feeling might prevail. We have
done so and realize it will be productive of
much good, we were received with kind-
ness by all of the branches. Commenced
to visit June 20th, held meeting with Fre-
mont R. S. their Bishop and a number of
brethren favored us with their presence,
much good instruction was given.
	Next day 21st, held meeting with the
Loa R. S. President Robinson and the
Bishopric attended also other brethren, a
variety of subjects were spoken of that
were edifying and elevating in character.
	The Loa R. S. was reorganized with
Margaret J. Taylor, President, Elizabeth
C. Jeffry and Bathsheba Grundy, Counse-
lors, Pauline Brown, Secretary, Sarah Ann
Robinson, Treasurer.
	In the afternoon of the 21st, met with
East Loa R. S. Bishop B. F. Brown and
Counselor J. Grover present, had an enjoy-
able meeting spoke of the instructions re-
cieved at the general Relief Society Con-
ference in Salt Lake City.
	Held meeting with Thurber R. S. on the
22nd, at 10 a. m. Bishop Wm. Meeks and
other brethren present, the remarks made
were timely and well recieved.
	Held meeting at Teasdale 2 p. m. Bishop
George Coleman present, same day re-
organized Teasdale R. S. with Mary
Eleanore Adams, President, Lydia C.
Adams and Maria J. Chaffin, Counselors,
Maggie S. Adams, Secretary, Emma Fran-
com, Treasurer, good remarks were made
exhorting to being faithful in the discharge
of every duty.
	On the 23rd held meeting with Grover
R. S. Of Teasdale Ward every member was
in attendance. U. V. Stewart Presiding
Priest present, a good spirit was enjoyed
good instructions given and the visit of the
Presidency of the Relief Society appreciated
by the sisters.
	On July 12th we wrote to each President
to have read in their meetings, “Utah
Women in Chicago’’ and June 15th num-
ber of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	Also have their teachers canvas their
districts for subscribers for WOMAN'S
EXPONENT hope the result will increase
your list and be a pleasure to those who
subscribe.
	August 7th started for the lower settle- 
ments, held meeting at Cainesville. Au-
gust 8th at 2 p. m. was happily surprised to
have President Robinson and Counselor
G. Bastian attend our meeting also, the
Bishopric and several brethren; we spoke
upon the merits of the R. S. also the bene-
fits accrueing, and there-from a Relief
Society was organized with Eliza Rust,
President, Isabelle Dalton and Alvira Mur-
dock, Counselors, Agnes Carrol, Secretary,
Olive Carrol, Treasurer. President Robin-
son and Counselor G. Bastian made remarks
favorable to the Relief Society, showing
forth the good it accomplished.
	August 9th at 11 a. m. held meeting at
Aldridge of Cainesville Ward, Bishop
Walter Hanks and a number of brethren
present, good instructions were given and
the spirit of the Gospel characterized the
remarks of the speakers. In times past they
had a R. S. in that place, their President
Sarah C. Durfee had done a good work but
had moved. A Society was reorganized with
Thersa Coombs, President, Patre Turgenson
and Maria Smith, Counselors, Electa John-
son, Secretary, Elisabeth Gardner,
Treasurer.
	August 10th at 2 p. m held meeting at
Blue Valley. President W. E. Robinson,
Counselor G. Bastian, Bishop Heber J.
Wilson and a number of brethren were
present, good practical instructions were
given pertaining to building on their town
site, nearly all are living on their farm.
The subjects were union, charity and the
like and will be productive of good results.
A Society was organized with Mary Ann
Lords, President, Eliasbeth Giles and Annie
Bingham, Counselors, Sister Cook, Secre-
tary, Mary Ann White, Treasurer. 
	August 11th at 10 a. m. held meeting at
Graves Valley of the Blue Valley Ward.
President W. E. Robinson, Counselor G.
Bastian, the Bishopric of the ward and a
number of the brethren were present, we
had a very good meeting, the spiritual and
temporal of our holy religion was protrayed,
the organization of the R. S. by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. A Relief Society
was organized. Lucy Thompson, Presi-
dent, Jane Sylvester and Martha Stoddard,
Counselors, Hannah A. Elliot, Secretary,
Nettie Sanford, Treasurer.
	We appreciated the presence of our
President W. E. Robinsou and Counselor 
G. Bastian and the good counsel given by
them to each R. S. after the organization
was effected, we had very interesting
meetings and enjoyed the spirit of our
high calling, felt the blessings of our
Heavenly Father were with us in our
labors, and have faith that the Wayne
Stake Relief Society will not be behind in
good works.
	JANE S. COLEMAN, President.
