EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Ladies of the Needle-work Guild 
sent notices to all the charitable institutions
and Associations which they know of not
forgeting the Deseret Hospital, from which
notice they have not yet received a reply as
the Resident Physician, Dr. R. B. Pratt was
absent at the World’s Fair, but has now
returned and will undoubtedly answer the
Secretary’s circular letter.
	ONE of the curious happenings of late is
the appearance of the large eagle on the
towers of the Temple and on the head of
the statue of Moroni, also on the trumpet.
The writer accidentally saw it and felt im-
pressed that it was a good omen.
	COPIES of the book of poems “Songs
and Flowers of the Wasatch," are now
ready and may be obtained from this office,
price $1.00; there is only a limited supply
and persons wishing to secure a copy should 
apply soon.
	THERE will be a semi-annual Conference
of the Relief Society held sometime during
the General Conference of the Church; the
time and place of meeting will be given at
a later date.  It is earnestly requested that
the Presidents of Stakes attend or their
Counselors or Secretary should represent
them at the Conference, as there will be
important matters to be considered that will
require the attention of the officers.
	A REPORT of the Silk Industry of this 
Territory from the very beginning of the
work has been prepared and forwarded to
the Honorable Committee on Silk and Silk
Culture at the World's Fair in Chicago Ill.
It will not be long now until we shall
know the result of the very earnest efforts
made by the ladies here to give Utah a fair
representation in that particular industry.
Statistics etc.  of the labors of our sisters
in various parts of the Territory have been
compiled in this report and the facts set
forth in a concise and comprehensive man-
ner, and it is ardently hoped will receive
careful attention from the men and the wo-
men who have been appointed judges.
	ON Thursday evening Sep. 14th, there
was a very pleasant gathering of a few
friends and acquaintances at the residence
of Mrs. Amelia F. Young to spend a social
evening and to hear Prof. Scott Rue of
New York City relate some of his experience
in traveling in our own country, and in
foreign lands, the beautiful scenery and
interesting incidents connected therewith.
There was some fine piano music by Miss
Minnie Folsom and Mr. Wilby Dougall
and a song “The Holy City,” feeling-
ly rendered by Mr.  Hugh Dougall.  Re-
freshments were served in a dainty fashion
and altogether the evening was very enter-
taining; Mrs.  Young is an admirable
hostess and her visitors always enjoy her
hearty welcome and amiability. Of the
guests present we noticed President Angus
M. Cannon, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs.
Lizzie F. Young, Mr. O. J. Salisbury and
wife, Mr. W. B. Dougal and wife, Mr. Sam
Fenton and wife, Mr. Hinman Fulsom wife
and daughter, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, Dr.
M. Hughes Cannon, Miss Patterson of the
Herald Staff, Mrs. Priscilla Staines, Mrs.
Priscilla Jennings, Mrs. Mc. Donald and 
others.
	MRS. POTTER PALMER has been at
Mackinac Island since the adjournment of
the Lady Board of Managers.  The report
that she had gone to Washington, D. C.,
is not true.


