AN ABRIDGED SKETCH OF 
HISTORY.
“The Lord is our Shepherd.”
	THIS was the language of king David,
who was comforted and blessed by the in-
spiration of those words, “The Lord is our
Shepherd.” Now I would ask, how often
have we repeated the same with a full
assurance that we have the same kind
Shepherd and friend?
	I am satisfied that those of our people
who came to this valley at an early date can
reflect upon the past with a grateful ac-
knowledgement that the Lord has ever been
our Shepherd, to guide, to comfort and
bless all those who rely upon Him and keep
His commands.
	I well remember how beautiful and
peaceful was the sight of Great Salt Lake,
yet the ground looked so barren and dry,
excepting a luxurious growth of sage
brush.  The thought arose, without rain
how can we stay here.  This was in the
year 1847.  But our great Shepherd gave
us wisdom, that by industry and persever-
ance we could raise crops of vegetables, yes
and grain also.
	At that time Jordan River (as we called
it) was a very small stream; it sank in the
sand before it reached the lake—the lake
also was quite low.  I know when we
visited it the first time Black Rock was on
the shore.  We kindled a fire and cooked
our dinner by this rock, and for years we
could go to the island on a sand bar.  Yes a
long train of wagons went on this sand
bar to celebrate a birthday I think, but I
know we had a grand party that day.  This
was in 1859 I know, because my son was
one year old at this time.  But I am going
ahead too fast.  I wish to speak of our first
winter in this valley.
	The first winter was very pleasant, much
more so than any winter I ever saw in the
state of New York, where I was born and
grew to womanhood.  But the cricket war
was early the next summer, shall it ever
be forgotten?  Our gardens were planted
near City creek to be irrigated by that
stream, but our homes were in the fort.
	The soil after being well watered pro-
duced splendid crops; the largest radishes
and turnips I ever saw.  But one day the
crickets came in abundance.
	I shall never forget Br. Staines’ nursery
of young trees, looking so lovely, but while
he went to dinner they were all devoured
by crickets excepting three young plum
trees. Such destructive creatures I never
saw.   The fight began, but to no avail; it
seemed impossible to subdue them.  What
could we do, only go to God for help;
which help came in the form of sea gulls
from the lake. They came in swarms, and
devoured the crickets.  They gorged them-
selves then threw them up and ate again
until every cricket was gone.  With what
gratitude did we behold this wonderful res-
cue.  Even the children could see and feel
that God did hear and answer our prayers.
Our united thanks were offered daily to
heaven for this miraculous help.
	This humility and faith in God prepared
us for another blessing which we also
appreciated.
	It was simply this.  A new President
came into office by the name of Millard
Fillmore, when he was asked who should
be governor of Utah; he thought Brigham
Young the most competent man to fill the
place.  Again we thanked our Father for
His protecting care, and again resolved to
serve Him to the best of our ability.
	In doing this we always prosper, who
can deny it. Coming here into an Indian
country, would not the native people feel
that we were intruders and not welcome.
	This required great wisdom, and where
could it be found only from the fountain of 
light and intelligence.  If white people
were our enemies and had driven us out,
what could we expect from the Indians.
	Well that wisdom was obtained by
prayer, as our Savior said. ‘‘Seek and ye
shall find; knock and it shall be opened unto you.”
	The next intelligence we received from
Washington was, that President Fillmore
had appointed Gov. Young to be agent of
Indian affairs.—Again we felt that the
Lord provides for His erring children and
would give us wisdom to make friends with 
the tribes of Indians.
	Our settlement was in the form of a fort,
with doors inside and only a port hole on
the outside, that we could protect ourselves
in time of need.
	We always treated the Indians friendly,
giving them what they asked for; and inas-
much as we had spoiled their hunting
ground, our flocks and herds would make
amends.
	Yet they would slyly kill a man and
sometimes two at a time, when our people 
would rally to know the cause, and find
one of their braves had died and they want-
ed a white man to bury with him to be his
servant on the happy hunting ground.
Brother George A. Smith’s son and Bishop
Woolley’s son, were both killed about the
same time.  Dr.   Whitmore and Robert
Mclntire at another time, Thomas Williams
at another time, and Mr. Hatton and others
when standing on guard, etc, etc.,  When
Walker died he being their chief, they
asked President Young for a man to bury
with him.  But the President answered,
“No! not a man but as many horses as you
like.”
	After President Fillmore’s time had ex-
pired, another President took his place; and
another governor was appointed for Utah.
But some of our false brethren told this
President that we would not accept of any
other one to govern us but Brigham Young.
	This would never do, as any sensible
person would know.  Accordingly an army
of 10,000 men were sent to teach Utah
government and to show proper respect to
those who govern.
	Again we went to God for wisdom.  Our
faith prevailed.  He gave us wisdom to
defeat Gen. Johnston’s army without one
drop of blood shed.  After this Col. Conner
brought an army of volunteers from Cali-
fornia to keep the Mormons in subjection.
He planted a Military Post just east of our
city, and sometimes when walking round
temple block they were heard to say, ‘‘it
would only be a breakfast spell to use up
this place.” Well that whip has been laid
up there for more than 20 years but not
used yet.
	Yet there are a class of persons who can
always see, that we are in need of a chas-
tisement.  I well remember when President 
Young was a prisoner in his own house, I 
called to see one of his wives, and while in
conversation with her he came into the
room.
	After shaking hands I was invited to
dinner, and being anxious to talk with 
Brother Brigham I accepted the invitation:
and at length,  asked him, “President
Young why is it that every trial we have
seems heavier to bear?” “Well what is
heavy now,” said he, “why” said I,
“when an effort is made to destroy the
head of the Church this I call heavy."—
“Oh no he replied, this is all right, nothing
wrong we are all at home.” He did not 
wish to see any one sorrowful or cast down 
all is right he replied, nothing wrong.
	His composure of mind and confidence
that all was right,  was quite refreshing to
me, while I looked at him with astonish-
ment and admiration. Yet the result was
exactly as he said it would be, all right:
because a spirit of inspiration was upon
him no doubt.
	This event was preparing him for a still
greater event which transpired in a few days
after,  while still a prisoner in his own
house.
	This was the great fire at Chicago, burn-
ing nearly half of the city.  I remember
calling on Sister Heywood a neighbor of
ours who kept boarders.  She was going to
market one morning, and saw three men
just ahead of her, hurrying to the depot.
One of them said, is it not strange that this
fire should take place at Chicago, just as
we are here to carry out the Chicago plat-
form?
	When she came home she told us what
this man said.  A query arose: What
could this platform be.  Perhaps they
thought President Young would play some
trick to  get away, and then this platform
would do something wonderful.  But our
kind and heavenly Father ordered it other
wise.
	Who could fail to feel for so many people
left homeless and without food?  Did
President Young feel for them? Yes, he
sent one thousand dollars to the sufferers,
Brother George Q. Cannon sent five hundred
and Brother Hooper sent five hundred.
Brother Jennings sent three hundred, other
merchants sent some one hundred others
sent fifty dollars, making a nice little sum
of money sent to those who would rejoice
in our destruction; and no doubt help to
accomplish it.
	Yet this mattered not to President Young
and those of our faith. It was for us to
keep the laws that Jesus gave to his dis-
ciples, and then leave the event in His
hands; all is right then, whether in life or
in death: for this life is short at best. And
one thing we know that the gospel of
Jesus Christ, gives us that peace of mind
which the world cannot. give or take from 
us.
	Since the death of President Young our
trials have come in different ways.  But
in all this we remember the words of Jesus
were; that “it must needs be that offences
come, but woe unto them by whom they
come.” My daily prayer is may I never
be of that class who would afflict another
because they do not see a subject as I see
it.
	No! rather let us remember the words of
Job who said, of the Lord. “Has not He
a right to chastise as well as to bless?”
We also learn from the prophet Joseph who
said: “The Lord is angry with none ex-
cepting those who will not acknowledge 
His hand in all things; and obey not his
commandments.” Can we do this? Jesus
said if you will keep my words as I have
kept my Father’s words you shall share
with me my glory. Shall not we try to
do it?			M.E. KIMBALL.


