FISHING ON THE REEF SAMOA.

	THE twenty fourth of July was a fit
time for an “out” in the scorching sun,as it
was under its burning rays that our honored
pioneers entered the beautiful valley of
Salt Lake just forty-six years ago.
	We had made no preparations for a
celebration at the Mission House, so when
Selani came and asked to borrow the boat
for a fishing trip to the reef, and stated
that the party was to consist of women
only, I hastily made up my mind, just for
the novelty of the affair, to accompany
them.
	The tide being low, I was asked to walk
along the beach to a point where they hoped
to be able to get the boat near the shore
but alas! when we reached the point we
found the water too shallow even there to
get within fifty yards of the shore so my
first experience was to wade to the boat,
shoes and stockings on.
	The party consisted of two half castes,
two Samoans, and myself and the different
grades of color we represented was a mat-
ter commented upon by the dusky oars-
women as we were rowed out toward the
reef by their strong and willing hands. 
Several times the boat struck large rocks
which Meile's watchful eyes had failed to
discover, and our progress was for the
moment impeded;  but for the moment only,
for Selani would spring from her seat in an
instant and turn the nose of the little craft
around clear of the rocks and with dripping
apparel climb back to her place again.
	When we had gone as far sea-ward as
shallow water would admit, the boat was
anchored and we walked out over the sharp
stones to the edge of the reef. There the
great waves came dashing and breaking
against the ledge of coral which for ages
has successfully resisted their force. Oh,
how they did pitch and toss and roar, as if
determined to overstep their bounds and
come pouring over the rocks and on to the 
sandy beach! but just as each had gathered
all its force and towered up to its greatest
height it would strike the firm barrier of
rock and be dashed into snowy spray to fall
and mingle with the calmer receding
waves. How great and how wonderful in-
deed are the works of God, and in no part
of the earth are their grandeur displayed

[Column 2]
in greater magnitude than in the mighty
deep!
	While the dusky women of the tropic
were busily engaged in the fishing I divested
myself of wet stockings and shoes and sat
on a pile of dry rocks to rest and enjoy the
beauty of the scenery and the music of the
waves. The fishers went yet nearer the
edge of the reef than I dared to venture
and reached down in holes in the rocks for
a kind of shellfish while the water rolled
over them with considerable force. The 
net had been forgotten in the boat, conse-
quently the “catch” was small, but as
there is scarcely a living creature in the
sea that Samoans will not eat they picked
up a supply of stuff which is edible to
them, though even the appearance of it
was quite nauseous to me. Several large
cuttle-fish were among the lot. There
was only one woman in the crowd brave
enough to pick one up, therfore when the
first one was discovered by Luci she called
to friend Selani who came quickly to her
assistance. As she firmly grasped the
slimy, clinging creature in her hand, it
wound its eight long arms about her wrist
and wriggled and crawled in its endeavors
to free itself, while she bit out its teeth and
really smacked her lips over the dainty bit
of flesh which she chewed from around the
mouth of the animal while it was yet alive.
A dark slime from its body was smeared
over her face which made her appear less
attractive than I had ever seen her before.
As each succeeding one was caught I
noticed that all my companions were
anxious to chew off the teeth, though quite
unwilling to take the octopus in their 
hands.
	The sun had about reached the meridian 
when we started on the homeward course,
and we were all hungry. The lunch basket
contained only dry taro that is it was dry
when we started out; but the woman who
carried it had set it down in the water a
dozen times or more while she used her
hands to catch fish, so it was by this time
thoroughly soaked. I knew my friends
intended to find something in the sea to eat
with their “bread,” but I must say I was a
little surprised when I saw what the things
were. Raw fish, the insides of several
kinds of mollusks,  clam fish, sea-weeds,
and even the little sea-urchin which is so
thickly covered with quills that it resembles
a mere bunch of thorns; these and other
delicacies were eaten with great relish and
gave them all so great an appetite that the
tavo was all gone before all were fairly
satisfied. After offering me quite a variety
of danties, which I told them I was un-
accustomed to eating, they selected a nice
clean, looking bit from a clam, and after
washing it well, pursuaded me to just taste
it. I did so and then assured them that I 
did not care for any more. I do not think
I ever tasted medicine that was as hard to
swallow as that one small bit of a raw
clam.
	The natives explained to one another
that I had never lived near the sea before—
did not understand the things of the sea
except fish and that I did not relish those


uncooked; and I, thankful that they under-
stood the situation, ate a piece of the
saturated taro and thought it quite fishy
enough.
	We found several beautiful shells and
some pretty pieces of coral which were at
once handed over to me and gladly accepted.
	They insisted on giving me the cuttle-
fish also, but the gift was persistently re-
fused and no doubt they had a real treat in
the shape of cuttle-fish soup. We returned
home as we had gone out, by pulling and
rowing the boat by turns. Dinner had
been prepared by Sister Hilton and was
eaten with great relish.
	Besides being very tired, I soon found
that the sun had been too warm for my face
and neck, and I had burned them almost
to a blister. A simple remedy was applied
and soon gave relief, and the fishing trip on
the coral reef of Samoa was one which
will long be remembered.	ALOFA.


