LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	
	MINUTES of the Sisters' Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Aug. 26th, 1893. Prest.
M. I. Horne presiding: singing “Come ye
Saints’’ etc. Prayer by Counselor Elizabeth
Webb, continued by singing “We thank
thee O, God for a Prophet” etc. Minutes
of the previous meeting read and approved.
Sister M. I. Horne said “I think if there
was a will there would be a way, for many
more of the sisters to attend these meetings,
unless there is sickness in the family. By
meeting together we are built up, our desire
to serve God renewed, and we e[-]joy more


of the good spirit. I feel sorry that the
sisters do not realize the momentous day in
which we live. We should rejoice as
mothers and daughters of Zion, see that
we love one another, and never forget our
prayers. We should be thankful that we
live in this the best of all dispensations.
We should not be lukewarm in serving
God, but devote our energies to the things
of the Kingdom. Prest. Woodruff has
said ‘watch the times, for wonderful things
are right at our door.’ The Lord is pour-
ing out his displeasure, upon the nations,
of which we have to take a share, but if we
trust in God all things will work together
for our good. ‘Hard Times’ is the cry, but
this would be as nothing if famine should
follow. The prospect of this is bad all
over the world, and it is threatened in our
own land. God can avert it if He so desires
but we have been warned to store up our
grain, sisters are we doing this? Now
that wheat is cheap, we should heed this
counsel we should be on the safe side. If
the sisters would only work in each Society,
in a systematic manner, very much more
wheat could be stored up this season. We
know that we are right, and in this line of
our duty, to store up the grain.”
	Sister Horne spoke of the great good the
choir going to the Fair, would do for Zion,
and gave many other instructions.
	Sister W. East of Arizona also spoke at
some length, giving good counsel and ex-
horted the sisters to sustain the EXPONENT.
Sisters Morris, Thomas, Sebrick, and Wil-
liams each followed with many good words
of testimony. Sister L. D. Alder, Sister
May and others, each added her testimony
to those already borne. Sister Elizabeth
Stevenson closed by saying many good
things and adding her testimony to all the
others that the gospel was true, and ex-
horted all to be true and faithful to the
same. Meeting was adjourned for two
weeks. Singing ‘‘Lord dismiss us with
thy blessing” etc. Benediction by Sister
Julia C. Howe.
LYDIA D. ALDER, Acting Sec.


