SALT LAKE TABERNACLE CHOIR.
	THE Salt Lake choir under the manage-
ment of its able director Professor Evan
Stephens has for some years past been quite
widely admired (for the sweet music
rendered) not only by Utah people, but
strangers and tourists who have visited the
City. It was thought by many musical
people when the Columbian Exposition was
first inaugurated that the Salt Lake choir
should go, and when competitive prizes
were offered, many people interested in
Utah’s progress were anxious the choir
should be given this grand opportunity, to
show the advancement of vocal music in
this comparatively new Western country.
	The recent financial embarrassments
were somewhat discouraging, and it looked
at one time rather improbable that so large
a company could find means to meet the
expense of going. But finally through
perseverance and the good management of
the Committee the visit of two hundred and
fifty of this large choir was successfully ar-
ranged and the singers with many friends
left Salt Lake on the 29th, of August amid
the cheers and exultation of an immense
crowd at the depot.
	In the same train was the new and
beautiful Pullman car, Pickwick, fitted up
with every modern convenience which had
on board the First Presidency of the Church,
Presidents Wilford Woodruff, George Q.


[Column 1]
Cannon and Joseph F. Smith with some 
members of their families and some friends,
invited guests of party.
	On their journey Eastward the large
company were well received at every
stopping place, and concerts were given by
the choir at Denver, Kansas City, St. Louis
and other places and at Independence Mo.
there was quite an interesting meeting and
assembly. This is one of the most historic
places in the reminescences of the Church,
and many of this people were anxious to
know how the Mormons would be re-
ceived, where years before they had been
expelled from their own homes and pos-
sessions. The reception and welcome
greeting given to the Latter-day Saints at
this place was very gratifying to those who
knew of the bitterness of the past, and
shows that prejudice is gradually giving
way to the better judgment, and that there
is more tolerance of religious faiths con-
trary to the old orthodox views of the
established Churches of the country.
	When the First Presidency and choir
with the friends who accompanied them
reached Independence having been previous-
ly waited upon by a special committee of five
citizens, they repaired immediately to the
Temple lot where a large assembly of
people were waiting to welcome them.
The Hedrickite house of worship stands
there but as it was not large enough to ac-
commodate all, a platform had been ar-
ranged outside and the First Presidency
and leading men of Independence were
seated there. The choir sang “The spirit
of God like a fire is burning,” and the
crowd moved across the street to the
Josephite Church which was soon packed
with people.
	The Mayor of the city gave the following
address of welcome,
	“To you American freemen, visitors from
the Far West, from a land of fruits, of
flowers, of milk and honey, I am here as a
representative of the citizens of Indepen-
dence, Mo., a broad, open people, free from
bigotry, generous, law-abiding, God-fear-
ing and lovers of liberty, and extend in
their names and in their behalf the right
hand of fellowship and a hearty welcome
to our city, hoping that the memory of this
day may be ever garnered in each of our
hearts, and treasured as one of the most
happy events of our lives.”
	President Woodruff responded, thanking
the people for their warm welcome and in-
voked the blessing of heaven upon them.
He then introduced President Cannon, who
briefly followed in the same strain and said
the welcome we had received while it was
unexpected was all the more deeply ap-
preciated. He closed by blessing them in
the name of the Lord and the choir sang
the anthem “Light and Truth,” and in
answer to an enthusiastic recall sang the
Temple anthem “Hosannah.” R. C.
Easton, by request, sang “O My Father.”
	One can easily understand how affecting
these services would be to those acquainted
with the history of the past.
	Arriving in Chicago there was little if
any difficulty in getting settled, everything
having been carefully arranged beforehand.
	The concerts in Chicago were well at-
tended and the choir singing, as well as the
solos given on Utah day at Festival Hall
and at the Utah Building, seem from all re-
ports to have been very fine and warmly
applauded as well as greatly appreciated.
	“Music hath charms to soothe the
savage breast,” the poet says, and it may
[Column 2]
be that through the musical and inpiring
efforts of the choir, much prejudice may be
swept away relative to this people especially
as regards ignorance and lack of cultivation,
for music denotes the highest cultivation of
a people, and the songs they sing are al-
ways indicative of the character, tone and
standing of a nation or a people. The
visit of the Tabernacle choir to the World’s
Fair will without doubt dispel many
erroneous views and notions and be
advantagous in many ways.
	The competition of the four choirs at the
Fair for the largest prize ever offered at a
national festival of this kind, will adver-
tise the singers more than all else, and
place them in rank before the public; here-
after it can scarcely be said as it has been
in standard magazines recently, there is no
music west of Cincinnati.
	The choir seems to have made friends
and produced a favorable impression every-
where, and the results must certainly be
beneficial in many ways. The choir leader
being a Welshman may have had some-
thing to do with the success and influence,
but we had much rather believe it was the
excellence of the work, wrought through
him in a great measure, and the tone and
superior quality and power of the voices of
the native sons and daughters of these
sacred mountain vales, girded by the ever-
lasting hills, scenery calculated to inspire
the poet and the singer.
	Though it was only the second prize
that was awarded to the Salt Lake Choir,
there were many good judges of music who
believed it should have been the first, but
as the choir that took the first prize reunited
with the professional singers from Wales,
it is not strange that they should have
been awarded the first prize; it does not
seem to have been a fair proceeding, but
the judges appointed declared it permissible,
so that no complaint would have been
listened to if made. However the people
of Salt Lake may feel a laudable pride in
the victory won by the Tabernacle choir
and due honor will be given them in the
welcome home and reception tendered to
them.
	The sad news of the serious illness of
Bessie Deane Allison’s babe causing them
to hurry homeward, restrained the public
from making any demonstration on the
arrival home, such as was made at their
departure; it would have been out of place
when one of the sweetest singers of their
number was plunged into the depths of sor-
row by the sudden news of her baby’s
condition. All sympathized with her and
every heart was  lifted in fervent prayer
that the child might be spared until her
return and that prayer was granted, though
it did not survive many hours after. May
our Father in Heaven give unto this sor-
rowing mother the comforting influence of
His holy spirit to abide with her, as He has
promised to all, who bow in submission to
His will.
	The choir arrived in this City on 
Wednesday morning September 13, and it
is expected will give one or two concerts in
the Tabernacle, when the people may show
their appreciation of the efforts made, while
away in assembling to hear the sweet
singers of Israel in their accustomed places
with the great organ accompaniment in the
Salt Lake Tabernacle at home.


