[Vol4 | June 1917 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: June Entertainments Morag]

June Entertainment. By Morag. BEAUTIFUL JUNE. SUNSHINY JUNE. "The earth and the air are in perfect attune Singing to welcome thee, beautiful June." June is the month of brides, roses, strawberries, and many other beautiful things, and one of the prettiest functions imaginable isa rose luncheon and musical. Decorate the rooms with the lovely flowers, and for a table centerpiece use a basket of roses, with a long stemmed rose with name card attached at each place. The lunch menu may consist of: Spring salad Creamed chicken in pastry shells Green peas New potatoes Tiny biscuits Strawberries and cream with lady fingers, macaroons or wafers. Have a program of "rose" music. Some songs may be "My Love is Like a Red, Red Rose," "My Wild Irish Rose," "Garden of Roses," "Roses and Lilies," "Last Rose of Summer," "My Rosary," "To a Wild Rose," etc. A ROSE GAME. Prepare a list for each rolling guest. Answers are names of roses. 1. Never seen on a stone. 9. AA vegetable. 8. country. 2. 10. 3. Blooms on a girl's cheek. 11. One American's honor. 4. An aspiring rose. 12. A spicy rose. A wanderer. A beautiful linen. r 13. 6. A beverage. 14. A perfume. Like a popular book. A brave general. 7. What you would do if you 15. An Irish Rose. burned yourself. ANSWERS. 8. 1. Moss. Cabbage. 2 Mar1en Blush. 9. La France. 4. Climbing. in. American Cinnamon. Beauty. 3. ll. Rambler. 5. Tea. t>. 12. Damask. Fed. 13. Musk. 7. Yellow (Yell oh). Marechal Neil. 14. Killarney. 15. 
 FLAG DAY. One of our newer holidays occurs on June 14, and is celebrated as Flag Day. On this day Old Glory is displayed on all public buildings and schools, and in many places patriotic exercises are held. The hostess who entertains on this occasion can use a red, white and blue color scheme with our beloved stars and stripes in evidence among the decorations. Flower combinations are red. white and blue sweet peas or scarlet geraniums, with blue and white larkspur. It is a good time to hold a children's party. It may be held on a flag decorated porch, or on the lawn. Make the children realize what the flag means to them. Let some one tell the story of Betsy Ross and the first American Flag, and of Barbara Fritchie. A good story to relate is 'The Man Without a Country," by Edward Everett Hale. Have a program of patriotic songs, children love to sing them. Have a flag race. This is like the old potato race, using flags instead of potatoes. The prize may be a silk flag to be hung in the room of the winner. Serve ice cream with a flag stuck in the center and small cakes. Here is the oath or pledge of allegiance used in the public schools. Stand at salute and repeat: "I pledge allegiance to the flag and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation indivisible  with liberty and justice for all." In this month the great outdoor beckons us, and lawn parties, picnics, auto rides, canyon and lake trips are in order. Remember to have these affairs properly chaperoned, or, better still, go in family groups. For a change try a sunrise party, meet at five a. ni., watch the sunrise, listen to the song of the early birds, then serve a dainty breakfast on the screened porch. For the Home Evening there are two special events which may be celebrated. One occurs on June 1st when the great leader of modern Israel. Brigham Young, was born. An evening might be spent in considering his wonderful life and achievements. On June 27 the anniversary of the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph and his brother Ilyrum. On this evening a program devoted to the lives and labors of these great leaders may be arranged.