[Vol4 | June 1917 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The Disease Germ in Utah]

The Disease Germ in Utah. Dr. Ellen W. Osier had spent an hour lecturing to our Relief Society on "disease germs." Indeed, she had explained every phase of the subject so vividly that every woman in the room felt a creepy sensation up and down her spinal column. We now know better than to use cream with our breakfast cereals, unless we are certain the milk has been placed on the stove and heated to 60 degrees C. for twenty minutes before setting away. In fact we feel that milk, cream and butter should henceforth be cancelled from our menus. It seems hard, however, to discard good, cool, fresh water, and use only the sickly stuff previously boiled, but, if we are to live to the age of a tree, we know we shall be obliged to do so. We had learned that it is positively unsafe to breathe the air with any other person in the room. To tell the truth, we were all somewhat anxious to get out of meeting, for, we feared even then we were inhaling millions of tiny bugs that would multiply and increase in our internal mechanisms and cut short our mortal careers. You should have seen the look of terror in Myra Fehringer's eyes, and how she drew the shawl right over her baby's face when old Sister Bently gave an influential sneeze. Well, Dr. Osier finished her enlightening discourse, excused herself on the plea of another appointment and rustled out. When the door had closed on her retreating figure. Aunt Matilda Peterson rose slowly to her feet. "Sisters." she said. "I am happy to say that I arrived in Utah before the disease germ. That is why, I suppose, I have enjoyed more than seventy years of good health. I have been permitted to bring into this world eleven robust sons and daughters, all of whom also arrived in Utah before the deadly disease germ. Consequently they have all had need of appendixes and tonsils and have never found it necessary to dispense with either. "As you know, I was one of the number who walked across the plains to Utah and helped draw a handcart most of the way. in which was stored our clothing, bedding and eatables. This miscellaneous freight would now he considered unsairtary, but being before the disease germ (lay. we suffered no harm. "I was young in Utah when girls could chew each other's gum with no premonition of ('anger. It was customary to borrow or loan a delectable chew until recess, in my school days; but remember, there were then no disease germs in these beautiful mountain vales. "But gum as well as flour was scarce in those days. 
 "Our lecture this afternoon has brought to my mind an incident I should like to relate. "Among the articles of wearing apparel stored away m one of the handcarts our family drew across the plains, was a pair of rubbers belonging to myself. "These proved quite a luxury, the winter following our arrival in Utah, for they were the only pair in the settlement in which we lived. "One stormy morning I wore them to school. On entering the building I took them off and placed them near the door. At the noon intermission, when I went to get my rubbers, one was missing. I looked all around but was unable to find it and so wore only one rubber home to dinner. "Of course, my mother felt somewhat annoyed at my loss as mothers usually do, especially under our circumstances. But I promised to make a thorough search through the afternoon and hurriedly ate my dinner and rushed back to school. "T looked through our little schoolroom inside and out. but found no trace of the missing rubber. "At length the noon bell summoned us all to our places again was obliged to relinquish the search. Through the afternoon I noticed all the boys and girls around me chewing something that had the appearance of gum; had I been less miserable over my loss, I might have observed the merry side-glances being cast in my direction. from. "At recess I enquired where the supply of gum had come "A big, awkward fellow, who was in the habit of showing me extra courtesies, answered my question by slipping his hand into his pocket and drawing out a piece of rubber, which he generously offered to me. "It flashed across mv mind in a moment, my schoolmates were chewing my rubber! "Yes. it was true! My precious rubber had been cut in pieces and was now serving my companions for gum. "I have been thinking this afternoon, had this occurred in this enlightened age. all the lads and lasses would certainly have suffered from some fatal epidemic. "But, fortunately it happened before the arrival of the disease from in Utah, and no one suffered any inconvenience." MOTTOES ADOPTED BY THE CORRELATION COMMITTEE. 1. Modesty in Dress and Dancing. 2. Thrift and Economy for Home and Country. 3. Spirituality in Teaching.