[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | September | Issue: 5 | Title: LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY. | Author: Sister Brown. Continued singing,]

LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY.

	MINUTES of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, July
14th 1894. President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing, “When
the voice of friendship’s heard.” Prayer
by Sister Brown. Continued singing,
“Satans Empire,” etc. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. President
Horne said “although few in number today,
we are promised the spirit of the Lord if
we meet in his name; we are entering upon
hard times, every kind of distress will be
poured out upon the inhabitants of the
earth, we should cultivate the spirit of love
and sympathy, be charitable to all, we can 
be kind to our enemies. There are many
allurements for the youth of Zion. Mothers
should be diligent in teaching the princi-
ples of the Gospel to their children while
they are young, in contemplating on the
signs of the times, we can see the hand of
the Lord in the troubles of today. Many 
of our friends are detained from home on
account of these strikes. Poor men show
they are envious of the rich, by their des-
truction of property. As saints of God we
should be awake to our duties. I am sorry
more of the sisters are not obeying the
counsel of Brother Young and laying up
wheat, also of sustaining home-industry.
If we had obeyed his wise counsel, we
should have been wearing our own manu-
factured clothing today, and the blessings
of the Lord would have been poured out
upon us; forty years ago my husband was
sent south to see if cotton could be raised;
how little progress we have made in all
this time in manufacturing our own wear-
ing apparel. Brother Brigham said if we
did not improve we would fall when Baby-
lon falls. He used to say, “It takes a
wise man to build up, but any one can pull
down.” Brigham Young did a wonderful
work in bringing the people to these valleys,
Brother Taylor followed him. Now
Brother Woodruff is doing a great work.
He is one of the most humble and faithful,
for his meekness, the Lord has greatly
blessed him in giving inspiration in regard
to Temple work. We have been asleep, 
not knowing that trials are so near. Let
us awake. I would do anything in my

[Column 2]
power to arouse my sisters in this Stake,
pray for a spirit of discernment, many false
spirits are in our midst, teach and interest
your children in the principles of the Gos-
pel, that we may not be condemned.”
	Sister Maria Snow of St. George Stake,
said, “I don’t think I can add any thing to
the remarks of Sister Horne. With her I
realize we are a little slack in our duties,
especially in our labor for the dead. I fear
we are too much carried away with the
things of the world. We must not lose
sight of the blessings promised for faithful-
ness. We are surely living in eventful
times. I never fully realized what was
meant by strikes until now. Calamities of
all kinds may be looked for in fulfillment
of prophecy. I will say to my sisters, don’t
neglect your meetings if you don’t want to
lose blessings. Keep your lamps trimmed
and burning.” Made some interesting re-
marks about the saints and their labors in
St. George.
	One sister said, I have spent the happiest
days of my life here in Salt Lake. I take
great interest in Young Ladies Meetings.
My daughters are engaged in the Primaries,
which gives me much joy. I am doing all
the good I can where I live. I have many
trials, there is nothing that has taken so
strong a hold on me as these meetings,
the testimonies of my sisters always give
me strength to bear my burdens more
patiently etc.
	Sister Rolleman thanked the Lord for her
home in these blessed mountains. Like my
sisters I have many trials, I desire to live
humble, and I know all will  be well with
us if we keep the commandments of God.
Made other remarks.
	One Sister related a very interesting
dream or vision, in which the Prophet
Joseph appeared in person to her mother,
in response to a request made by her, to a
son who had died, asking him to come
back and tell her if Mormonism was true.
Brother Joseph said, is there some thingr
you wish to ask me, she answered nothing,
the question was repeated the third time.
	Counselor Stevenson, spoke with much
spirit upon the necessity of mothers teach-
ing their daughters to do house work, said
there are many girls marry without knowing
how to be the least help to their husbands.
I believe the happiness of many a home has
been destroyed through this very thing.
Its the duty of every mother to teach their
daughters economy and to be industrious.
I think its time retrenchment was brought
to our young people, I am a great hand to
preach by example, it is said of us, we
care not for those not of our faith. Let us
live above criticism,show by our works that
we are true, speak of the goodness of God
one to another. I don’t believe there is
one in this congregation, but what has had
a testimony, it is the spirit of the adver-
versy that holds us back. The time has
come when we should be known by our
works. I have no time to run after the
various schemes of the day. Meeting was
adjourned for two weeks. Sung Doxology.
Benediction Sister Julia C. Howe.
