Silver Death

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.  Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

Vol. 34 Mary J. Wilson NOVEMBER 1947 THEALL THAT LIFTS TO BEAUTY Berta H. Christensen We thank thee Lord for the intangibles We cannot weigh or hold within the hand, Yet are as integral to life as breath, And less elusive than the shore's white sand. Thanks for the faith that goes with every seed Into the quietly receptive loam, For faith that lights a candle in the dark Of windows, for a loved one coming home. | For truth, which is not bounded by a line, Or margined by the years. Beyond the scars Of doubt and disillusionment, it lives Lasting and bright as the eternal stars. Thanks for the tender reach of thought; the dream Of spring beyond the ice-encrusted tree; For laughter in a baby's eyes, and all That lifts the heart to beauty thanks to thee! The Cover: "Spires"  Photograph taken on Mount Timpanogos, Utah, by Willard Luce.. VOL. 34, NO. 11 NOVEMBER 1947 The Joys of Welfare Service Elder Marion G. Romney | Assistant to the Council of the Twelve and Assistant Managing Director, Church Welfare (Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual Relief Society General Conference held in the Assembly Hall, Thursday morning, October 2, 1947.) counselors, members of the Relief Society General Board, and my beloved sisters from the stakes and missions of the Church: I deem it a high privilege to be requested to participate in your annual Relief Society conference. I sincerely thank you for the invitation and I pray that the spirit of the Lord will direct me, both in what I shall say to you and in the spirit in which I shall say it. I love the Relief Society workers throughout the Church. I enjoy working with them. They give enthusiasm, spirit, and refinement to the things they touch. One of the great joys which come to me in my Welfare service is the association I have with the General Presidency of the Relief Society Sister Spafford, Sister Sharp, and Sister Garff and the members of the Relief Society General Board. I am persuaded that they are among the elect daughters of our Heavenly Father. They are able and accomplished women, and they have the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ in their souls, which clothes them with charity, humility, and willing and obedient spirits. Not only do I love the Relief Society workers, but I love the Relief Society work, particularly that part of it which distinguishes the Relief Society's assignment from those given to other Church auxiliary organizations Beth Spafford President This assignment, in the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, "is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and the exercise of all benevolent purposes," for, said he, "the best measure of or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants. The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls." To accomplish this, he said, the Relief Society sisters "will pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed. They will dry up the tears of the orphans and make the widow's heart to rejoice." Preliminary to the accomplishment of this assignment is the arduous task of providing clothing, food and fuel for those in need. In large measure this is done on Welfare production projects. I would like to make a little explanation about the relationship of the Relief Society to this production program and their responsibility in it. THE annual Church-wide Welfare production budget is prepared by the General Church Welfare Committee. The committee is guided by the First Presidency of the Church. They (the members of the First Presidency) approve the budget (1) as to its nature (that is, as to the things included in it), (2) as to its size Page 723 724 (that is, the quantities to be produced), (3) as to where it is to be produced, and (4) as to the general manner in which it is to be produced. All three members of the First Presidency have already met with members of the General Committee and its staff, the Presiding Bishopric, and the General Relief Society Presidency, and have so approved the proposed Church-wide production budget for 1948. In the office of the General Committee that budget is now being readied for presentation to the Welfare regions and the stakes and wards of the Church. I tell you these things that you may know with what care the Welfare work of the Church is directed, and that it receives the personal attention of the First Presidency of the Church, as do the missionary work, salvation for the dead, and. The other great Church programs. It is part and parcel of the fundamental program of the Church for the salvation and exaltation of its members. Among the most valued advisers to the General Church Welfare Committee in the preparation of the budget is the General Presidency of the Relief Society and their Board. Particularly is this true with respect to food and clothing. They prepared the food distribution guide from which we work out the food budget. They advised as to what clothing items should be placed on the budget for production, and as to the manner in which and where they should be produced. It is my personal hope that they will soon be given a greater responsibility than they have hitherto borne in supervising the production of clothing for the Welfare Program, because while most of it is well done and looks like Relief Society work, some of it does not measure up to that high standard. From the foregoing it is clear that the general officers of the Relief Society have a great deal to do with the preparation of the Welfare production budget. They do not, however, take that budget direct to stake and ward Relief Societies. The assignments to these organizations reach them over the following route: Under the direction of the General Committee, a fair portion of the Church-wide budget is accepted for production by each of the nineteen Welfare regions of the Church. (Stakes not in regions receive their budgets direct from the General Committee. Welfare production in the missions is directed by the mission presidents, pursuant to instructions from the General Committee given in special bulletins dealing with Welfare work in the missions. ) Representing the regions in accepting the regional budget are the regional council (consisting of all the stake presidents in the region), the regional bishops' council (consisting of the chairman of the respective stake bishops' councils in the region), and the stake Relief Society presidents of the stakes in the region. These people should be careful to make sure that the regional budget as accepted is consistent with the natural resources and prevailing conditions controlling production in the region, as also with the established Welfare production projects and other facilities already set up or in the making within the region. NDER a similar procedure, each stake in the region accepts a fair portion of the regional budget, and THE JOYS OF WELFARE SERVICE each ward in the stake accepts a fair portion of the budget of the stake. Let me here emphasize the fact, which is apparent from what has already been said, that Welfare production assignments, whether on a Church-wide, regional, stake or ward basis, come through the regular Welfare organization and not from the general Church officers of the respective organizations which receive production assignments; that is to say, for example, the ward Relief Society officers should receive their assignments for ward sewing and food processing projects from the ward Welfare committee of which the bishop is chairman, and not from the stake Relief Society officers, and the stake Relief Society officers should receive an assignment for a stake-wide sewing or food processing project from the stake Welfare committee, of which the stake president is chairman, and not from the general Relief Society officers. Photograph submitted by Hilda M. Richards 725 DISPLAY OF QUILTS MADE BY THE RELIEF SOCIETIES OF THE EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION Standing in the rear, left to right: Neva Wright, mission secretary; Mable Waldron, mission stenographer; Evelyn Tate, mission bookkeeper; Thora Swallow, mission recorder. Relief Society. At right, Sister Hilda M. Richards, President, East Central States Mission The quota for this mission was thirty quilts, but eighty, very beautiful and well made quilts, were received. 726 In this procedure, however, the Relief Society officers have a vital function at every step. The General Relief Society officers advise with the General Church Welfare Committee in the preparation of the Church-wide budget; the respective stake Relief Society presidents in each region advise with the regional council and bishops' regional council in accepting from the General Committee the regional production budget; each stake Relief Society presidency advises with the stake presidency and other members of the stake Welfare committee in accepting from the regional council the stake production budget; and each ward Relief Society presidency advises with the ward bishopric and other ward Welfare committee members in accepting from the stake Welfare committee the portion of the stake budget which is to be produced in the ward. A few budget items, as determined by the General Church Welfare Committee, are produced on a Church-wide basis, such as flour and cereals and evaporated milk. Some, as determined by the regional officers with the approval of the General Committee, are produced on a regional basis, such as fresh milk in the Jordan Valley Region and citrus fruits in the Southern California Region. Others, as determined by 'the stake and ward officers, are produced on a stake basis. The bulk of Welfare production, however, is, as it should be, done on ward Welfare projects. 'These projects, under the direction of the ward bishop, should be determined upon and given direction by the ward Welfare committee. In the ward Welfare committee meeting, at which all three members of the ward Relief Society presidency are to be present, should be determined what these ward projects are to be, where they are to be established, how they are to be financed, and who is to do the volunteer work to insure their success. Always it must be kept in mind that those receiving support through the Welfare Program are to work on these and other projects to the extent of their ability. N most instances the responsibility for the sewing budget, which includes clothing and bedding, as also the responsibility for a good deal of the work in processing foods, is assigned to the ward Relief Society officers. This is as it should be, because the responsibility for the financing and for the work necessary in producing the clothing and food for the ward Welfare budget should be borne by the men and boys and the women and girls of the ward in about the same proportion as is done in a family. I have in mind, of course, a well-balanced and well-regulated Latter-day Saint family, not a primitive family where the women do it all, nor one. In which there is no sewing machine and no needles, and in which the only kitchen utensil is a commercial can opener. In discharging this responsibility, I feel that the Relief Society officers  general, stake, and ward should fully. Understand and keep in mind that they may call upon all the women and girls of the ward to lend a hand in this budget production work. By no means are they limited to the regular attenders at the Relief Society meetings. Many Primary Associations and some Young Women's Mutual Improvement As- THE JOYS OF WELFARE SERVICE sociations have inquired as to what they can do to help. Use them and the other organizations of women and girls as the wisdom of the bishopric and yourselves dictate, and then give all the women and girls individually, if they have not been reached through an organization, an opportunity to work at the cannery, the sewing center, or some other project. If they are unable to go to such projects, take some work to their homes. Remember that these projects are ward-wide assignments. I cannot say too much for what the women of the Church, under your leadership, have already done in this program. I am sure that your record is unequaled. I would be surprised to learn that any production assignment properly entrusted to Relief Society officers had failed because of reasons within their control. Photograph submitted by Reta Broadbent 727 They uniformly get it done. I would like, however, to discuss briefly with you procedures in getting it done. The most important thing in the Church Welfare Program is people not people in the mass, but individual men, women, and children. It is for their salvation that the Welfare Program was inaugurated, and for their salvation it persists. Announcing the appointment of the General Church Welfare Committee and the inauguration of the Welfare Plan, the First Presidency of the Church did not say that their primary purpose was to produce the necessities of WELFARE SEWING EXHIBIT, THIRTY-THIRD WARD, BONNEVILLE STAKE April 29, 1947 Front row seated, left to right: Maude Mellville; Harriett Worthington; Ida Johnson; Ella and Lynette Hunter. Back row, standing, left to right: Elizabeth Stevens; Fannie Nuttall, First Counselor; Alida Larsen; Bretta Johansen; Margaret Burns; Reta Broadbent, President. Included in this ward's Welfare sewing were thirty children's dresses, sixty-one pajama suits, and many other articles. 728 life. For the needy, although such production was then and is now a major part of the program. But they said, and I quote: Our primary purpose was to set up, insofar as it might be possible, a system under which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of a dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift, and self-respect be once more established amongst our people. The aim of the Church is to help the people to help themselves. Work is to be re-enthroned as the ruling principle of the lives of our Church membership. O carry on our production program and all other Welfare activities in a manner which will make a maximum contribution toward the realization of these fixed objectives is at once our greatest task and our major challenge. To collect cash and purchase wearing apparel, quilts, and blankets and turn them in to the bishops' storehouse before the end of January, is one way in which budget assignments have been met. Another, and a very much better way is to purchase the required materials with money provided for at the ward Welfare meeting, and then have the already overworked, faithful attenders at Relief Society meetings make them up on regular work and business days and on special work days. In either of these ways the needed clothing and bedding can be placed at the bishop's disposal for distribution to the needy. But neither of such procedures does anything to help the families who will use the purchased and Relief Society made items, avoid the curse of idleness, or abolish the evils of a dole, nor to develop within themselves independence, industry, thrift, or self-respect They do nothing toward re-enthroning work as the ruling principle of their lives.  These exalting objectives can be promoted only by putting the consumer in the way of helping himself. Do not misunderstand me. I am not advocating the abandoning of these procedures now in use, at least not the one through which the Relief Society sisters do the sewing. I know that for the present, at least, the major part of the sewing budget will have to be met in this way. I recommend, however, as already suggested, that every effort be made to bring all women of the ward into the producing programs, whether they are active Relief Society members or not. This will lighten the load on the faithful few, and it will give opportunity for our sisters who have not learned to sew to be taught. Every Latter-day Saint woman should be taught and should learn how to sew and cook, and should become accomplished in all the arts of homemaking. In the revelation which the Prophet Joseph Smith said embraces the law of the Church, the Lord said: And again, thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands; and let all things be done in cleanliness before me ( D. & C. 42:40-41). THEN, too, it will give all an opportunity to get the spirit of Church Welfare and to be warmed up with the joy of service. It will do much to build unity among the sisters of the ward, which I feel should be one of the objectives of the Relief Society. Photograph submitted by LaVon Stuart NORTH DAVIS STAKE WELFARE SEWING EXHIBIT June 28, 1947 This photograph shows only one booth of the extensive display of beautifully fashioned clothing and other high-quality articles completed for this assignment. Other booths included many fine quilts, blankets, blouses, and women's and children's clothing. I call to mind an instance where a ward Relief Society president repeatedly visited and invited an inactive ward member to Relief Society meetings. The member consistently replied that she was not interested and did not have the time, but the Relief Society president was persistent. She said to the member, "Well, if you cannot come yourself, will you let us borrow your sewing machine?" Assent was given to this request and the president promised to call for the machine on the following work and business day. When she called, the member was prepared to go along with the machine and help out with the sewing. It turned out that she was an accomplished seamstress. She enjoyed the work and her association with the other sisters. The next year, when the ward Relief Society sewing director was called by the bishop into another office, this member was in line to be the sewing director. I am sure you could all relate out of your own experiences incidents which would illustrate the great possibilities for the development of the women of the Church in the sewing, canning, and other activities of the Welfare budget production program. What I desire particularly to impress upon your minds at this time, however, is the urgency that you give more and an ever increasing amount of earnest and prayerful attention and effort to placing the needy in the way of helping themselves by providing ways for them to do more and more of this production work. Invite them to the sewing centers and let them work along with the rest of the women of the ward. The women of the Church should be one great sisterhood of equals. Give women whose support comes from Welfare production work right through the year. They will feel happier with a full-time job and they will then be in fact self-sustaining. In some cases sisters will not be able to leave their homes. Take work to them. At a recent stake conference I learned of a woman past ninety years of age who was knitting mittens for the Welfare Program at her home. The Relief Society kept her supplied with yarn and she kept happy and contented in the realization that, instead of living on a dole, she was self-sustaining in useful service provided through the Lord's great Welfare Plan. I call to mind a young mother left a widow with a family of small children. She was unhappy because, to earn a livelihood, she was required to leave her children at home alone during the daytime. Her desire was to stay at home where she could teach and train her children, and at the same time provide a living for them. Arrangements were made through the Church Welfare Program to place a sewing machine in her home. She was supplied with materials for a large part of the sewing budget, including the needs of her own family, and she worked at home sewing as her time would permit, throughout the whole year. She had fully earned all that she had received. I could give more illustrations, but these two will suggest others to your minds. The opportunities are limitless. The ingenuity of the Relief Society sisters, if applied with all their hearts, will find a solution to every need, for the Lord will add his inspiration. OW, the saving of souls in this manner demands unending application, endurance, patience, and true charity, which is "the pure love of Christ." It means painstakingly and laboriously teaching the elementary practices of cleanliness, the simplest principles of hygiene, of sewing, of cooking, and of homemaking, and above all it requires conversion conversion of the Relief - Society workers first, and then the conversion of those whom they would save. Does it sound like drudgery? Well, there will be a lot of drudgery in it so long as what is done is done only because of the letter of the law and without the spirit. For the letter killeth. I am persuaded that in some of our Welfare work there is too much drudgery and not enough joy. I remember hearing of three men working with a building crew. All were employed at the same labor. Each in his turn was asked, "My good man, what are you doing?" The first replied, "I am carrying brick;' the second, "I am working for $8 a day;" and the third, "I, Sir, am building a temple." Service performed in the spirit of the third one of these men brings joy. 'That performed in the spirit of the first two is drudgery. Oh, it may enable us to fill in our reports and it may to an extent relieve us from that uncomfortable feeling, familiar to all of us, of having some undone task hanging over our heads, but the true joy of service in the Master's cause it will not bring. To participate in that reward is to taste  THE JOYS OF WELFARE SERVICE of "the love of God, which sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of men," which Nephi described as "the most desirable above all things," to which the angel responded, "Yea, and the most joyous to the soul." "In the wisdom of him who knoweth all things," such joys are reserved for those who have qualified themselves to receive them, by entering into the work with full purpose of heart and rendering service above and beyond the call of duty. They are of divine origin. They are priceless. They are not the fruits of a superficial, hurried, spare-time performance. The Master said if one would really find his life, he must lose it in the service of others, and that he who sought his own life in serving his self-centered interests, would lose it. Yes, my beloved co-workers, the real joys of Welfare service begin to be revealed to us when we have completely surrendered to the spirit of the work; when in service to others 731 we have forgotten the great sacrifices we think we are making; when we cease to begrudge the loss of the pleasures we might have had at bridge, at literary clubs, or afternoon teas. They are revealed to us when, partly as a result of our own labors, we see the rejuvenated life in one who was lonely restored to the company of understanding, sympathetic friends; or in one once discouraged taking heart again; or in one who had fallen rising again with her own strength; or in one who had quit, trying again; or in one who was bitter and rebellious beginning to soften under the benign influence of the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Herein lies joy akin to divine joy, because it arises from service which is akin to divine service, and promotes the Lord's great objective "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). May each of you hunger and thirst for, and be filled with, the joys of Relief Society Welfare service. J ANCHORED Andrew M. Andersen My father paused as he plowed his land When a sudden wind turned the emerald fields Into billowing seas. The fields in motion, the undulating hills, The Sawtooth Mountains, and the transfixed crests Of the royal Tetons Became northern seas on the Danish coast. And his strong hands On the handles of a plow Felt a helmsman's wheel. But his feet stood firm on this land that he loved And his heart was anchored to a mighty faith. Reading and Writing in Deseret Anna Boss Hart Member, Relief Society General Board Illustrations by Dawn Andrus HAT a record of achievement is the story of the Latter-day Saint pioneers from the time of Deseret to the Centennial! During this greatest of years the Centennial Year, the lives of the pioneers have been re-evaluated, hearts have been turned to their greatness and achievement. We have marveled at their clear vision, their love of the graces and refinements of life, their zest for learning, their eagerness for searching truth, and their accomplishment. Our present streamlined educational system, with its. Towering buildings, its elaborate methods of instruction, its rigidly trained group of specialized administrators and teachers, is a contrast to the humble school of the pioneers, with its primitive buildings, its meager equipment, its precious, but simple course of study, and its poorly equipped students. After the first thought was given to the tilling of the soil, the next thought was given to the developing of the soul, which must also have food and sustenance. The pioneers recognized that power would be theirs through knowledge. How symbolic was the name they selected   "Deseret"   meaning honeybee! As the honeybee has come to mean industry, the pioneers sucked the honey of truth and built a hive of industry and wealth  temporal and spiritual. Page 732 The urge for education penetrated the souls of the early pioneers before they left Nauvoo. The Prophet Joseph Smith, a great educator, preached the furtherance of learning with eloquence, strength, fervor, keen desire, zest, and earnestness. In 1831, two leading elders were given the assignment "to do the work of printing and of selecting and writing books for the schools of this Church, that little children also may receive instruction" (D. & C. 55:4). The University of Nauvoo came into being in 1840. Arts, sciences, and "learned professions" were planned for the curriculum. The Nauvoo City Charter obtained by the saints provided for the "first municipal university in America." One of the first free schools in Illinois was opened by Parley P. Pratt. At Winter Quarters, during the frigid winter of 1847, a log house with dirt floor and dirt roof was converted into a schoolroom, with Emmeline B. Wells as the instructor. The prophetic urge for education was also in the heart of Brigham Young. Before leaving Winter Quarters he urged the pioneers to bring "'a copy of every available treatise on education every book, map, chart, or diagram that may contain interesting, useful, and attractive matter to gain the attention of children and cause them to learn to read; and every historical, mathematical, philosophical, geographical, READING AND WRITING IN DESERET geological, astronomical, scientific, and all other variety of useful and Interesting writing, maps, etc."   can imagine the many saints who "heeded his words" and how many old textbooks found their way into precious comers with rare china, a priceless wedding dress, or a bit of old lace. HEN the Pioneers came to the valleys of among the first institutions to be Provided were schools and seminaries for the training of the saints, Organized in the Rocky Mountains! At happy students Must have trudged the first dirt paths to that school! Writes that Mary Jane Dilworth had nine Pupils on had a N speller, half a q arithmetic book, across the plains. Mary Jane Dilworth arrived in Salt Lake Valley with the second company of pioneers, in September 733 be remembered as the first teacher recorded in the history of Deseret and the one who Placed the "first stone in the foundation of the Present magnificent Which Utah is One teacher was given a willow chair which the schoolboys made. Schoolteacher, arrived at Brown's Fort, October 27, 1849. She states winter she taught school in a log house: We had to collect letters from Scraps of papers and old books; these We pasted on paddles. We also made letters on the side of our hands. In this way the children learned to read. Six months after the founding of Manti, in 18 50, Jesse W. Fox opened a school "for juveniles, and was reading to the adults, evenings, by the light of a tallow-dip and the campre." Lydia Stanley was the teach- r RUNNING FOR A DRINK OF WATER er who opened a school in "a hut of logs and brush on the banks of the Jordan." What a contrast in school buildings from the humble shelters of early pioneer days to the spacious and stately buildings of today! GCHOOLS were held in all types of buildings. The first school was housed in a military tent shaped like a wigwam. Groves and boweries were used, private houses, and public buildings. 'The log house was common, with "roof garden of mud and sunflowers; a dirt floor packed hard by feet, which were mostly bare." Sometimes the floors, consisting of split logs, were smoothed with an adze. Sometimes the walls were split logs "laid close together and covered with cedar bark or rushes that grew about the marshes." Windows were sometimes covered with cloth greased with fat. This was used instead of glass. Sometimes they were covered with white cloth to admit light.' One schoolhouse was part of a fort wall, with portholes for defense against Indians. Adobe houses were often used. The red ones were especially colorful. The size varied from small twelve-by-twelve foot rooms to two-story frame buildings with the stairs to the upper story built on the outside wall. Even garrets were used, and a "lean-to-room near the United Order storehouse." George A. Smith's first school is pictured in his diary, March 3d, 1851: My wicky-up is a very important establishment, composed of brush, a few slabs and 3 wagons. A fire in the center and a lot of milking stools, benches and logs placed around, two of which are fashioned with buffalo robes. It answers for various purposes, kitchen, schoolhouse, dining room, meeting house, council house, sitting room, reading room, storeroom. To see my school some of the cold nights in February, scholars standing around my huge campfire, the wind broken off by the brush and the whole canopy of heaven for covering. George A. Smith was a colorful figure conducting classes "by the light of the campfire during the founding of the far southern settlement of Parowan." Ada Arvilla Burke Earl, born in Farmington, Utah, May 28, 1857, said in her diary: We started school at a very early age and I remember carrying bread and a jug of milk for our lunch and Mrs. Lyman would give us dishes and spoons to eat our bread and milk in. Another pioneer wrote: When nothing better was available for the mid-day meal, the children went out and dug sego roots. The schools created an atmosphere of industry, co-operation, and happiness. The pupils made their  READING AND WRITING IN DESERET own entertainment and jollity. What fun they would have on Friday afternoons at the "spelling down" matches! Then there were declamation contests, organ solos, singing programs, and occasional plays or concerts. In the Brigham Young School they would often fin-, ish up a Friday afternoon with the reading of the weekly paper made up entirely from contributions from the scholars and edited by one of them. Games played during recess might have been baseball, or steal-the-stick, or drop-the-handkerchief. "'At times we played Indian and made bows and arrows," says Lorenzo D. Young, 'who attended Miss Dilworth's first school. UNISHMENTS were also necessary at times. Silas Hillman said "YOU'RE ASKING FOR A SPANKING" 735 that, although punishment was used, little whipping was done. The other forms of punishment were as follows: The first offense was punishable by having the offender stand in the middle of the floor; the second, to stand on one   foot; the third, on one foot with one arm raised; the fourth, on one foot with the raised arm holding a stick. Next came the dunce cap and various other unique ways of trying to keep order. In the Bigham Young School the individual desks were painted green, with drop lids. These could be raised and, as Clarissa Y. Spencer expressed it: "It was very convenient to raise the lid, and behind it, eat a choice apple or read a note from one of the boys, being quite sure the teacher would not see us." Later, more fortunate teachers had some charts on the walls for the youngest children and slates and pencils for the older ones. In imagination we can hear the scratchy slate pencils, which had been made from slate rock whittled down. Later, when paper could be obtained, quills were used for pens, and sharpened by the teacher with her sharp knife. Oak bark and copperas were boiled together for ink. Those who had neither pencils, slates, pen, nor ink took charcoal and "wrote on smooth logs or dried bark of the white mountain birch." There was a great scarcity of books in pioneer days. Bibles and other standard works of the Church were available, but references and textbooks were limited. What rapture must have been felt by the saints when Wilford W. Woodruff arrived from the States with nearly two tons of school books. This event was recounted in the Deseret News of November 27, 1852:
Some of the books used during the first brief school year in Utah were the Bible, Noah Webster's Spelling Book, the Lindley Murray Readers, and A New and Complete Arithmetic Composed for Citizens of the United States. Others available at that time were a medical work by Dr. Gunn, a universal history, and occasionally there would be found a Blackstone and other legal books. Dr. Bernhisel brought a large number of books of every type from the East. Mention is also made of Kirkham's Grammar, Smith's Arithmetic, the Wilson Readers, Cornell's Geography, Ray's Arithmetic, and Elementary Arithmetic. Spencerian copybooks were often used to perfect writing.
With what pride the owners of a McGuffey's First Reader, published in 1836, studied its contents. The owner of this book cherished the illustrations "designed to be used by lovers of art. This book was handled almost reverently and placed on the shelf or table with the carefully dusted and much used Bible and other cherished and treasured books. Lessons of courtesy and morals were almost shouted at the end of each story.
IN 1848 the Legislative Assembly enacted its first law which provided for good roads. Its second law provided for a University of the State of Deseret, claimed to be the first institution of higher learning west of the Mississippi."
In February 1850 Orson Spencer was appointed chancellor. Twelve members to make up the Board of Regents were also appointed. "Until 1869 its existence was little more than nominal. . . . Then the annual grant of $3,000 for its support came from an empty treasury."
Three men comprised the first faculty�Orson Pratt, Cyrus W. Collins, and Orson Spencer. Each of the forty students paid $8 or its equivalent every ten weeks.
For a time the University was a "Parents' School." It was held in the front parlor of the John Pack home on the corner of West Temple and First North Street in Salt Lake City. After awhile the "Parents' School" was discontinued. It was one of the most interesting experiments conducted in Utah education.
Tuition and salaries were problems in those early days. The parents had to furnish their own books, building materials to produce, such as potatoes,
they occur." The illustrations served also for oral lessons in language, for spelling, word pronunciations, stories, and memorization. Many pictures were carefully traced by lovers of art. This book was handled almost reverently and placed on the shelf or table with the carefully dusted and much used Bible and other cherished and treasured books. Lessons of courtesy and morals were almost shouted at the end of each story.