[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | May | Issue: 23 | Title: FAREWELL. | Author: Unknown]

			FAREWELL.

	How many thoughts and feelings are asso-
ciated with this word!
	It is inexpressibly painful to me to be
obliged to bid Farewell even for a short
space of time, to a dear friend; there are so
many things to be feared, so much doubt
and uncertainty how, and when, and under
what circumstances we may meet again;
and, if going any distance, there is such a
variety of fears of dangers, or accidents by
the way: How many friends part gaily, fully
expecting to meet soon—and perhaps, years
elapse, or, more even than that, death it-
self may snatch one away and the separation
or meeting is indefinitely extended to an-
other sphere!  How careful friends should
be to part, though even for a very short
space of time, with good feelings, kind
wishes, and tender words, that there may be
no regrets—no recriminations—nothing to
embitter grief that could possibly have
been avoided, should we never meet again.
Therefore, we should never defer an opportu-
nity of doing a kind act, or speaking an
encouraging word to a friend, remembering,
how often we are called upon to part with
them suddenly.  I suppose it is this last
parting which makes us attach so much
solemnity to this simple word—we can
scarcely use it in common phrase without
feeling the significance it has in connection
with the final parting of friends.  Indeed,
I do not care to use "GOOD BY," for the
same reason, and would much prefer "good
morning" or "evening" in a usual way, they
do not seem to imply so much time, or even
so much intervening space.
	"Farewell," says the young man, to fa-
ther, mother, sister and brother as he goes
forth, perhaps for the first time to battle
with the world alone. O, the aching hearts
he leaves behind him, and the doubts and
fears as to his ultimate success, and how
seldom do all meet again in the same pleas-
ant and unbroken home circle! But the oc-
casions on which this word is used are too
many, varied, and complicated, for me to
even glance at them here.
	Friends part expecting to meet the
same as when they take each other by the
hand to go their separate ways, and per-
chance ere they meet again something
transpires to change the current of their
affections and they can never be to each
other what they were—what they have
been.
	But most agonizing of all, when we must
lay away our dear ones, and say the last
farewell to those fondly loved!  Happy for
us, if we have nothing to reproach ourselves
with—if we have been really and truly all to
them that nature and affection could require.
And we should reflect seriously and strive
so to live, that, whether our parting be for a
few days, months or years, or whether we
must part until the Resurrection Morn, we
can feel in our inmost hearts, we have been
faithful in the fulfillment of our duties and
obligations, and, also, in ministering cheer-
fully to the wants, wishes and happiness of
those we loved, whether relatives or friends.
								M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
		MAY TIME.
Sweet May! Ah most welcome ever!
	But dearest of all times to-day;
For—somebody—bold and clever,
	Is going to call this way.
Bold, for he asked me something,
	I should not have thought he dared,
(I couldn't answer that's one thing,
	For indeed I was not prepared.)
Clever for smiling and saying,
	In such a delightful way,
Those dear words—Ah! how I am staying!
	I was thinking of dear, sunny May.
My feelings? Ah, you'd be above them.
	At least too much so to betray!
You were never a "first time in love" then—
	I mean deep in love—with sweet May.
Some like the grave winter for sporting,
	Some fancy the summer most gay;
But for sentiment, love, and for courting,
	We choose—that is I choose sweet May.
I said he should know by my greeting,
	If one, or divided our lot;
Now I have no idea of cheating,
	I couldn't seem glad I were not.
Of all apprehensions I'll rid him—
	He is here! now what shall I say?
O! Welcome, sweet welcome I'll bid him—
	Of course I mean, welcome sweet May.
								LULA.


