[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | February | Issue: 8 | Title: GRACE GRANTS TRIP THROUGH FOREIGN | Author: Unknown]

GRACE GRANTS TRIP THROUGH FOREIGN
			COUNTRIES.
Dear Grandma Grant:
	Papa has asked me to write you a letter
all about our trip to Scandinavia
	We left here on the 20th of July, and
the first night we had to cross the North
Sea. The boat was so crowded that we
couldn’t get berths, and so had to sit up all
night, The next morning we got off at the

[Column 2]
Hook of Holland and took a train for Rot-
terdam. We were all so sleepy that we
went to sleep and rode right through the
city. As it was a fast train we had to ride
two hours and a half before the train
stopped. When it did stop they put us on
the right train and sent us back. We
didn’t have to pay a cent for the extra ride
and saw lots of Holland and Germany
which we would not have seen otherwise.
	We got back to Rotterdam about eleven
o’clock instead of six, and as we had
missed our train we had to stay there all
day. We took a train for Berlin about
seven that evening. We were on the train
all night, and as it wasn’t a sleeping car
we didn’t get much rest. We arrived in
Berlin the next morning and were met by
an Elder. We started right out to see the
city, going first to the Kaiser’s church.
This is a beautiful building both inside and
out  As it was Sunday, they were having
services there, and so we didn’t stay very
long. We then went out to Charlottenberg
and visited the mausoleum where the tombs
of some of the German knights and queens
are. Just as you enter the building there is
a statue representing the Angel of Death.
There is a large blue skylight, and as that
is the only light in the building everything
looks very dismal. There are four large
tombs there, and they are all lovely, but my
favorite was the one of Queen Louise. They
are all pure white marble and there is a life
sized statue of the person who is in the
tomb on top of each one.
	That evening we went out to the princi-
pal part of the city and saw a number of
pretty places We went to the Reichstag,
capital building, and it is one of the pretti
est buildings I ever saw. In front of it are
some fountains and a statue of Bismarck.
Then we went to the Victory monument,
which I like better than any monument I
have ever seen. It is in memory of the
victories won over the French. We walked
from here down the Victory Avenue. This
is a beautiful street, having statues of the
rulers of Germany from 1100 up to the pres-
ent time. The statues are not very pictur-
esque, but very interesting. We went next
to the Wagner monument This is also a
very pretty monument, being a statue of
Wagner surrounded by figures representing
his four greatest operas. Then we went to
the Thier Gardens, and stayed their until
after ten listening to the music. The mus-
ic in Germany is the loveliest I have ever
heard. You hear a band almost everywhere
you go and they are all very good ones.
	The next morning we went first to the
Kaiser’s palace, which was very beautiful,
but overladen with gold and silver. The
bed, bed room and prayer room of Freder-
ick the Great are there. The prettiest room
is the large senate room, where the Senators
met before going to the Reichstag. This
room is also used for a banquet hall.
	Then we went to the Zeug Haus, which
is a large building full of war paintings,
instruments of war, old flags, etc. It was
very interesting.
	Then we went to the Royal stables, and
think the building is much too pretty to

[Column 3]
be used for a stable. There were hundreds
of horses and carriages which were all very
beautiful, but only for show. I don’t sup-
pose many of them are used once in a life-
time.
	From there we walked up the noted street,
Under den Linden. I was dlsappointed in
this street, as I had heard so much about it
and was expecting more than I got The
trees look like they have just been put in
lately, and are too small to give as much
shade as is necessary to make it real pleas-
ant. At the top of this street is anarch
that was at one lime the gate to a wall. On
top of this arch is a bronze chariot that rep-
resents victory. This chariot was captured
by the French some years ago and placed on
the Triumphal Arch in Paris but was later
taken back to Germany.
	Next we went to the panorama and saw
the destruction of Port Arthur and a regu-
lar battle on the sea. There were about
twelve little war vessels about ten or twelve
feet long. They were built just like war
ships, and so we got a pretty good idea of
naval battles.
	From there we got a car and took a love-
ly car ride through Grunewald, green forest,
which is the principal residence part of the
city. It is very pretty out there, and there
are some lovely homes. On our way back
we stopped at the Terrassen an Halensee,
which is a large building built in the Egyp-
tian style. It is real odd, but pretty, and
is a sort of a summer resort. The building
is used for a restaurant, the gardens are
lovely and there is a large bathing pond
near.
	The next day we went to the art galler-
es. First we went to the new art gallery,
which is very nice and has some lovely
pictures in it. Then we went to the old
one which has mostly all statues in, there
wasn’t much to it, and I thought most of
the statues were hideous.
	Then we went to the largest store in Ger-
many. It was a lovely store and I saw lots
of things which I wouldn’t have minded
having, but of course I couldn’t have
everything I wanted, and so I didn’t buy
anything.
	Next we went to the Art Exhibit. Most
of the pictures there were the new art, and
liked some of them very much. They
had rooms furnished in the new art furni-
ture, and they were very interesting and
pretty. I like the new art very much,
especially the furniture and jewelry.
	The next day we went to Dresden and
spent the day. We were most of the time
in the art galleries and they are the finest I
have seen at all. There are a great many
noted pictures in these galleries and nearly
every picture there is a perfect gem.
	After leaving there we went out to the
snmmer residence of the King of Saxony
It is built on the Japanese style and is very 
odd, but picturesque. The gardens around
it are just lovely.
	We didn’t get back to Berlin until after
ten that night and left early toe next morn-
ing for Copenhagen. We went from Berlin
to Copenhagen, part way by boat a[-]d part
by train, arriving there about seven o’clock


[Column 1]
that evening. The next day we started out
to see the sights of Copenhagen, which
were not many. First we went to the Art
Gallery, but as it wasn’t very large and had
no noted pictures in, we didn’t stay very
long. Then we went to Thorvaldsen’s
Museum. This was very interesting and
all the sculpture work there was done by
Thorvaldsen. There are some very beauti-
ful statues in it.
	That afternoon we went to the Zoologi-
cal Gardens where I saw lots of animals
which I have heard and read about, but
that I have never seen before. Then we
walked through some real pretty parks back
to the hotel. I suppose you know there
is not so much to see in Copenhagen as in
Berlin.
	The next day we went to another pretty
park and the harbor, and then to a large
forest near the sea shore. We passed the
King of Denmark’s palace, but as visitors
were not being admitted then, we could not
go through it. We took a boat that even-
for Malmo and from there we took a train
for Stockholm. We arrived in Stockholm
the next morning. We had a sleeping car.
The first I have seen over here, and they
are nothing to compare with the ones at
home, but much better than sitting up all
night.
	This afternoon we went through the
king’s palace, and it was real nice. There
is a museum there of old costumes and I
never saw such funny dresses in my life as
saw there. The guest’s rooms were love-
ly and I wouldn’t mind being a guest there
myself.
	That evening after meeting we took a
walk through some of the parks. Stock-
holm is a very beautiful city, and has the
loveliest location of any city I have seen.
You can’t go anywhere without crossing
bridges or taking ferry boats. It is called
the Venice of the North.
	The next day we went first up on an ele-
vator and got a lovely view of the city, and
then we went through an old church where
some of the kings and queens of Sweden
are buried. It was a very dismal place.
Then we took a ride around the city and
saw the residences, which were all real
pretty. Then we went to the north mu-
seum, which was very interesting. It is
full of old costumes, furniture, kettles, etc.,
like are used in some of the country parts
of Sweden at present. From there we took
a boat and went around one of the islands;
it is the prettiest boat ride I have ever had.
Both shores were covered with forests and
the water was very smooth, so it made a
beautiful sight.
	The next day we went to the National
Museum which is full of pictures, and stat-
ues. There were no noted pictures, but
some very fine work.
	That afternoon we went out to the king’s
summer palace, which is on one of the
islands not far from the city. We went
through the palace and walked around the
grounds. I liked the palace very much but
I liked the grounds better.
	We left Stockholm the next morning for
Gothenburg. We were on the boat three
days, and although the scenery was perfect-
ly lovely, it was the same thing over and
over, and so soon became tiresome. We
all got sea sick the second day while on one
of the big lakes. We saw some falls which
are said to be next to Niagara, but I don’t
think the two can be compared. Maybe it
is because Niagara is in America.
	There wasn’t anything to see in Gothen-

[Column 2]
burg but the parks and a forest, so after we
had seen those we didn’t have much to do,
so sat around the hotel and went for little
walks
	We left Gothenburg Tuesday morning
and arrived in Christiania about three
o’clock that afternoon. That evening we
went to one of the parks and heard a real
good orchestra.
	We spent most of the next day on one of
the mountains near the city and it is one of
the prettiest places I have ever seen. We
walked to the top of the mountain where we
got an excellent view of the city.
	The next day we visited one of the pal-
aces and went to the oldest Christian church
in Norway. It is the funniest little build-
ing I have ever seen and just as dark as pitch
inside. It rained the next day, so we
didn’t go anywhere in the morning, but in
the afternoon we went to the Art gallery.
They were moving from one building to
another, so we didn’t see much. There is
a shed near the museum and in it is one of
the old Viking ships which was dug out of
the clay on the seashore. It is almost “gone
up the spout,’’ but is still very interesting.
	The next morning we took the tourist
boat and rode around for two hours and a
half on the Christiania Fjord and it was a
lovely ride. Then for a change we went to
another park and got another view of the
city, but it was not a very clear day, and so
the view was not as good as some we had
had.
	The next day was Sunday, and so we
didn’t do a thing but go to meeting, and
the next day we left for home. We went
home by way of Copenhagen, Kiel, Ham-
burg and Rotterdam, but didn’t stay in any
one place long enough to see anything. We
saw a lot of German battle ships in the
Kiel harbor, and I never saw such enorm-
ous things in my life. We were all deathly
sick crossing the North Sea. We left papa
at Christiania and he had another three day
water trip before him, so we all thought of
him while sea sick and felt sorry for him.
	We got home on the 25th of August,
just in time to rush down to the landing
stage and see Brother Robinson and Laura
Foster off. We were very glad to get here
in time to say good by to them.
	We were all very glad to get home, and
only wished we could have brought papa
with us.
	Well, all the news is told, so I will close
with lots of love to all, especially yourself.
	From your loving granddaughter Grace.
Liverpool, England, Oct. 10, 1904.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


