[Vol29 | July 1942 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: In RetrospectChapter VII Lyman]

I kin get my bearings now.'"' In Retrospect President Amy Brown Lyman CHAPTER VII Rerer Soctrery WELFARE Work AND RELATED ACTIVITIES: ELFARE work, which is one W of the most interesting and important features of the Relief Society program, and which was the first assignment given to the organization, has received renewed attention in the last quarter of the century.
While the aims and objects of the Society were outlined in the beginning by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and general principles have been developed from time to time, actual detailed methods of helping people out of trouble were left for development by the Society, working under the supervision of the Presiding Bishopric. However, organized relief in the Society was introduced, demonstrated, and established by the Prophet himself when he contributed $5 to the charity fund and announced that what he should give to help the needy in the future would be given through this organization. The life of Relief Society has covered the most interesting period in the whole history and development of social welfare work.
There has been more progress in this field in this century than in all the centuries which preceded it.
Near one hundred years ago, there began a wave of humanitarian sympathy and scientific inquiry which — gradually spread over the whole country, creating a new interest in human beings..
Among the dominant ideas which were developed during the last half of the century are the following: that organized relief should replace indiscriminate giving; that the causes of poverty should be studied, both personal and environmental causes, and that destructive forces should be singled out for special attention and attack; that prevention of poverty, disease, and crime is much better and much cheaper than relief or cure; that old-fashioned charity which was largely palliative and paid attention only to those already in trouble should be replaced by modern welfare which calls for the getting to the very roots of the trouble; that mass betterment should go hand in hand with individual betterment; that the broad aim of social work should be that each individual shall be able to live a normal life according to the standards of the period and the community, rather than the narrower object which is merely the care of those who through misfortune or fault cannot gain this for themselves; that rehabilitation should be the goal in philanthropy; that wholesome recreation is necessary; that suggestive steps in family welfare are relief of existing distress, prevention of new distress, and the raising of human life to its highest level. As a result of new and intensive study, "definite principles have been formulated and new standards set up, training courses established, general instruction in colleges and universities and even in Page 46] 462 secondary schools given, and technical literature provided." Relief Society, wherever it has functioned, has been. A beneficiary as well as a factor in this development.
Because of the nature of its work, it has received recognition and earnest attention. It has made a name for itself throughout the organized world of women.
Humanitarian work is naturally appealing everywhere to everybody. I found in my missionary work that, to most people, unselfish humanitarian work is often more appealing in the beginning than theological doctrine—and ~ indeed it is practical religion. In 1916, special attention was given by the General Board to the work of the visiting teachers, and at the October conference of that year a visiting teachers' convention was held. The duties and responsibilities of these workers were reviewed and discussed, the use of new teachers' books which had been introduced at the beginning of the year was evaluated, and topics or messages were suggested for use in home visits.
Following this stimulating convention and through the next few years, changes and readjustments were gradually made. The title "visiting teacher" was substituted for "block teacher," and the geographic divisions were designated as "districts" instead of "beats." The teachers were relieved of the duty of assisting in the distribution of relief or aid, which task was taken over entirely by ward presidents.
Visiting teachers were still expected, however, to receive and carefully record contributions and to report cases of need and illness. New arrangements were made in 1921 whereby their reports could be given privately to  president on work-and-business day rather than in the regular open meeting to the members, which had been the custom in the past. 'Teachers' messages were first published in the Magazine in November 1921 for use in 1922. In 1923, the use of the teachers' messages was required. The distribution of aid and the.
Special work of family inquiry, analysis, and planning was to be the responsibility of the ward president, working in close cooperation with and under the direction of the bishop.
During and after the last World War, and in the depression years which followed, family problems were multiplied and economic distress was increased everywhere; as a result of this, health and welfare agencies were taxed to the limit to meet the situation.
Many human needs of long standing were revealed, and startling discoveries were made respecting existing conditions. It was found that there was need for better and broader service in health and welfare programs, closer cooperation between agencies, more effective coordination of community activities, and more comprehensive methods of helping people who were in trouble and distress.
Training courses were given in connection with schools and universities in the fields of health and welfare. Red Cross featured courses in home hygiene and care of the sick, nutrition, first aid, and home service (family welfare). Relief Society women, ever alert to new and added opportunities, and quick to recognize any improved method of helping people out of trouble, took advantage of every means which would better fit them IN RETROSPECT for their many-sided, humanitarian program. The organization restated and reemphasized its views, some of which were: that the able-bodied should work and, where necessary, work should be provided for them; that the aged should be properly cared 463 and sailors, was grateful to the Latter-day Saint Relief Society for assuming the care of those belonging to the Church, and the Relief Society was more than willing to conform to the standards of care which were required by this national service organization. RELIEF SOCIETY CLASS IN RED CROSS SURGICAL DRESSING HELD IN GARDO HOUSE, SALT LAKE CITY, 1920
Front row, center, is Emma A. Empey, chairman, who represented Relief Society General Board for; that the dependent mother with minor children and dependent, neglected children should be helped adequately and intelligently; and that Relief Society welfare workers should be willing to better train themselves by study and practice in order to know when to help and how to help constructively, and, in the words of Dr. Edward T. Devine, the great philanthropist, "to minister in all things to the strength rather than to the weaknesses of those who are in distress and trouble." The Red Cross, which had taken over the care of families of soldiers It was a real pleasure for me as general secretary to be one of a delegation of four women selected to take a special course in family welfare work given by the University of Colorado and the Red Cross in the fall and winter of 1917, with field work in the city and county welfare department of Denver. The other members were Annie D. Palmer, of Provo, Cora Kasius, of Ogden, and Mary L. Hendrickson, of Logan. A rather spectacular incident occurred in connection with our sojourn in Denver, which caused us some anxiety. After we had been at work 464 several weeks, the Denver Post announced in large headlines that Amy Brown Lyman, the general secretary of the Mormon Relief Society, and several other Latter-day Saint women had come to Denver presumably to take a course in family welfare work, but that in reality these women were there to proselyte in Denver homes. The institute officials were greatly perturbed over the matter and called at our boarding place immediately to make apologies for the paper and to offer to make any retraction we might desire through the other daily paper. Two of our number were so insulted and outraged at being accused of such duplicity that they were determined to return home. They wondered if any of the institute members would believe this story. However, after consulting with President John L. Herrick, head of our mission there, we decided to pay no attention to the matter and to give up any idea of answering the article in any way. Beginning with the new year of 1918, I was made chairman of the Family Consultation Committee of the Salt Lake County Chapter of the Red Cross, and supervisor of Red Cross Relief Society family _ work, and the other workers were placed in charge of all Red Cross family work as follows: in Provo, Mrs. Palmer; in Ogden, Miss Kasius; and in Logan, Mrs. Hendrickson. In the fall of this same year, I spent another period in the charity office in Denver as a volunteer. Worker, with a view of becoming more familiar with the administrative work of this excellent office. In June 1919, a social welfare department with standardized social case: work. Was established at Relief  
Society headquarters in the office of the general secretary, upon the advice of President Joseph F. Smith and with the hearty approval of President Emmeline B. Wells. The object of the department was to serve (a) as a center for cooperative work in Salt Lake City between stakes and wards, and between Latter-day Saints and non-Latter-day Saint agencies in the interest of Latter-day Saint families in distress; (b) as a center for Latter-day Saint transients and non-residents in need; (c) as a Latter-day Saint confidential exchange and clearing house; (d) as an employment center or bureau for women and girls; (e) as a training center for Relief Society women engaged in charity and relief work; (f) as the official child-placing agency of the Church. As the work of the welfare department grew and additional workers were employed, it was moved from the general secretary's office and given a separate department (1921), although still under the direction and supervision of the general secretary, who for sixteen years (1915- 1934) directed the work. The development of this department, with the varied duties and numerous contacts involved, was an interesting and challenging experience to me and my fellow workers, and the work was so helpful to others that it brought encouragement and satisfaction. In 1920, the General Board conducted an intensive six-weeks' course in family welfare work at the Brigham Young University, and sixty-five of the eighty-three stakes sent sixtyeight delegates to the course. The class included one great-grandmother, sixteen grandmothers, forty-three mothers,. And eight unmarried girls. IN RETROSPECT Sixteen were between the ages of twenty and thirty years, sixteen between the ages of thirty and forty years, twenty between the ages of forty and fifty years, thirteen between the ages of fifty and sixty years, and three were sixty years of age. Follow-up work was later carried 465 gan an annual course of lectures in social welfare for the graduating class, which continued for seventeen years (1923-1940). Since that time, this work has been given at the University of Utah in connection with other' educational work for nurses. For a number of years, a similar lecCLASS IN SOCIAL WELFARE, BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY, SUMMER OF 1920
Front row, center, is Amy Brown Lyman into the local divisions where additional institutes were held with local workers. Altogether, 126 institutes have been held in various localities, varying in length from four days to six weeks, the average length being two weeks—with a total attendance of 4155
Relief Society workers. Lessons in social problems, health,. And related subjects, given in weekly meetings, have created interest and stimulated helpful community projects. T the request of the Latter-day Saints Hospital in Salt Lake City, in 1923, the welfare department be- / ture course was given by the department to the graduating classes at the County Hospital and at the Holy Cross Hospital. Short courses in social welfare for nurses are included today in all hospital training schools, the object being to familiarize nurses with social and economic problems which are so closely related to health work in the field, and to prepare them to function more effectively as community leaders. Included in the Relief Society social welfare department from the beginning has been an employment bureau for women and girls, and since 1916 there has been a child-placing bureau. Designated by the First 466
Presidency as the official child-placing agency for the Church, the Relief Society was licensed in 1926 for this work and has functioned in this capacity since that time. A storehouse for clothing and supplies was established in 1921 by the Salt Lake City stakes for their own benefit. It was later taken over by the General Board; and under the direction of Nettie D. Bradford, a member of the Board, as chairman, clothing and furniture were received, renovated, and remodeled for distribution.
This storehouse was a great aid to the welfare department and a benefit to the people. In order to promote closer cooperation between bishops and Relief Society presidents in the interest of family welfare work, the Presiding Bishopric in 1921 issued the following instructions: "The bishopric should invite the Relief Society presidency to meet with them monthly, or oftener if necessary, to consider general relief work and to discuss plans for looking after the poor, the sick, and those in distress."
Previous to this, each agency had worked more or less independently. In the war years (World War I) and the depression years which followed, Relief Society women made great contributions in the interest of suffering humanity, cooperating with the Red Cross and other agencies in producing clothing, including _ knitted articles, in preparing surgical dressings, producing and conserving food, and in caring for the sick, distressed, and needy. At Relief Society headquarters we were busy from morning till night, and worked oftentimes late into the night.
During the summers of 1924-1928, inclusive, under the sponsorship of  the welfare department, and through the ccoperative effort of the General Board and some of the country stakes, and with a number of generous individual donors, malnourished children were sent to the country and cared for in hospitable homes for at least a two-weeks' period for each child.
Many children enjoyed this privilege and in every instance gained in weight. In the five summers, 269 children, an average of fifty-four each summer, were given the opportunity. One little boy wrote to the office while he was away that he was having a wonderful time riding horses, helping to feed chickens and pigs, and to "pick the eggs."
Representing the General Board, I was one of nine persons appointed as a committee on organization of the Utah State Conference of Social Workers which was organized and held its first meeting in October 1925.
Inasmuch as sickness (physical or mental) is the greatest single cause of poverty, and inasmuch as poverty is often due to sickness, welfare and health workers have long felt the need of close cooperation; and in the Relief Society, health work has gone hand in hand with charity work.
People are often poor because they are sick, or sick because they are poor.
This alliance of poverty and disease has persisted in all ages and has often formed a vicious circle about its victims.
Sickness eats up savings and eventually incapacitates individuals. It is especially disastrous if the breadwinner is affected. Not a single year has passed since its organization that the Society has not featured health work—health projects as well as health education.
Charity workers estimate that IN RETROSPECT there is physical sickness in sixty to eighty percent of all families being aided, and this in addition to those afflicted with mental illness.
Preventable sickness is often responsible for the death of men in the prime of life whose families are left with insufficient support, of mothers 467
Board of Health in the establishment of five milk depots in school buildings located in the western part of the city, for the purpose of supplying milk for babies during July and August, especially those in homes lacking refrigeration facilities. Fresh, cold milk was available twice RELIEF SOCIETY EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 1920
Seated at desk is Helen Woodruff (Anderson), employment clerk in early life, and of little children. Even where children recover from acute illnesses, they are often left with scars and injuries which are never overcome. Wasting diseases, such as tuberculosis and _ heart trouble, reduce many families to need. In 1916 and 1917, effort was made in Relief Society to increase the use of milk in the diet of children, even to the amount of one quart per child per day; also to impress upon mothers the importance of pure, clean milk for babies. Upon recommendation of Alice M. Horne, chairman of public health, the  daily. Mothers who were able paid for the milk, and to others it was, furnished free of cost. The depots were in charge of nurses assisted by volunteer workers from the Relief Society, and supervised by the City Health Commissioner. 'The expenses were borne by the city, the Relief Society, and by a number of individual donors. In addition to supplying milk, babies were examined, calls were made at the homes, and classes for mothers were held. Hundreds of babies were benefited by this service. These centers pointed the way and were forerunners of the Well-Baby Clinics which were later established in many places, and demonstrated 468 the importance of a pure and adequate milk supply for babies and children. | | Relief Society women everywhere have constantly emphasized in their educational work the importance of milk in the diet of children and adults, and have promoted projects in order to secure funds for the purchase of milk for families not able to supply it in sufficient quantity for themselves. AFTER participating in classes for health instruction for nearly 100 years, after conducting classes in practical nursing and obstetrics for forty-eight years, and after supplying practical nursing service in most Latter-day Saint communities, the General Board took a step in the direction of providing better training for future practical nurses or nurse aids. In 1920, the Board persuaded the Latter-day Saints Hospital to try the experiment of offering a one-year course for Relief Society nurse aids who were recruited by the organization. The experiment was most successful, but was discontinued after the fourth year because this short ecourse jeopardized the standing of the hospital with the National Hospital Rating Bureau. The organization has continued its interest in nursing, however, by recruiting nurses for regular hospital training, which until recently was a real task for hospitals; by establishing two nurse loan funds in 1923 and 1926, respectively; and by setting aside funds for health, maternity, and child welfare. At the Relief Society April conference in 1922, upon recommendation of President Clarissa S. Williams and with the approval of  
Presiding Bishopric, it was decided to centralize the scattered wheat funds throughout the Church which amounted to nearly one-half million dollars ($412,000), to place them at interest with the Presiding Bishop's Office, and to use the interest from the fund for health, maternity, and child welfare purposes. 'Thus was initiated an important movement in the Society which, in connection with the work of cooperating agencies, notably state health departments in the Sheppard-Towner work, was a factor in reducing the infant, child, and maternal death rate in many communities through health centers, health conferences, physical examinations, and correction of defects. It was my privilege as a member of the House of Representatives the next year (1923) to introduce in the Utah Legislature the bill providing for Utah's acceptance of the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act: "to promote the welfare and hygiene of infancy and maternity." Under this provision, the Relief Society co-_ operated with the state health departments in other western states, as well as in Utah. In connection with this work, maternity chests were established in the local branches, together with readyto-use maternity bundles and _ layettes. The chests contained all sorts of articles for the mother and new baby. The bundles contained first necessities for the baby. The bundles and utensils were either loaned or rented. Relief Society women of today never lose sight of the fact that a large number of Latter-day Saint women have graduated in medicine; that two hospitals have been established by the Society—the Deseret IN RETROSPECT Hospital in early days (1882), the forerunner of our Church hospitals, and the Cottonwood Maternity Hospital (1924), which is still operating successfully; and that large donations of bed and table linen and sewing service have been contributed by them to our Church hospitals. 469 ity Chest, the State Woman's Com. Mittee on Unemployment, State Council of Defense, State Welfare Commission, Utah State Tuberculosis Association, and the State Training School for the Feebleminded. I have also had the opportunity of attending national meeta Ji RELIEF SOCIETY WELFARE DEPARTMENT AT GENERAL HEADQUARTERS, 1942
While working in the Relief Society, I have had the opportunity of coming in contact with many other welfare agencies and _ institutions, and have learned to appreciate their work and their value. I have also served on a number of local and state welfare boards, which service has helped to broaden my views and sympathies, and to increase my understanding with respect to the varied fields of humanitarian work.
Among these latter are: Family Service Society, Red Cross Home Service, Salt Lake Community Clinic, Salt Lake Hospital Advisory Board, Dental Service Society, Travelers' Aid Society, Legal Aid Society, Visiting Nurse Association, Communings as follows: National 'Tuberculosis Association, Boise, Idaho, 19109; American Child Hygiene Association, New Haven, Connecticut, 1922; and the National Conference of Social Workers, Pittsburgh, 1917; Kansas City, 1918; Atlantic City, 1919; New Orleans, 1920; Washington, D. C., 1923; Toronto, Canada, 1924; Denver, 1925; Cleveland, 1926; Des Moines, 1927; and Montreal, 1935.
Through these avenues, I have been privileged to meet some of the noted social welfare workers of the day. MONG the many interests of the Relief Society, and a very special interest of my own for many 470 years, has been the study and proper care of those who are mentally ill and those who never grow up.
Because of this interest, the subject of mental hygiene and child study was featured for a number of years in the educational department of Relief Society, beginning in 1926.
This study resulted in increased knowledge and enlarged vision with respect to the mentally ill and handicapped, and in a better and more sympathetic understanding regarding them and their needs. In Utah, which was one of the few states without an institution for the care and training of the feebleminded, Relief Society women were the major factor in the introduction of a bill in the 1929 legislature providing for the establishment of such an institution, and in the passage of the bill.
They wrote letters, made personal visits to legislators, and circulated petitions throughout the state which were presented to the legislature, containing in all 25,065 signatures. Legislators, on receiving these petitions, were not inclined to ignore them.
Following the session of the legislature, Governor George H.
Dern on April 17, 1929, appointed a commission of five, including himself as chairman, -to choose a site for the proposed new institution. The other members were D. A. Skeene, Roy D. Thatcher, John Booth, and myself. The commission first sought the advice of experts in states having the most successful similar institutions, and of professional people in the field of psychiatry, and even persuaded one superintendent, Doctor Allen, of the Vermont school, to accompany us through the state to inspect the sites—more than thirty—  which had been offered.
Others accompanying the commission were soil, hydraulic, and drainage experts from the Agricultural College, and members of the State Building Commission. 'The school was finally located on the bench north of American Fork, which in the opinion of all concerned was the most satisfactory site. In May 1930, when a board of trustees was appointed for the school, the members of the commission were all included. My term of office was five years, or until 1935. At the end of five years I was reappointed for seven years, or until 1942. The board was dissolved in 1941 by Governor Herbert B. Maw in connection with his reorganization program, and the members were all released. My service with the institution therefore covered a period of twelve years.
Connection with this humanitarian institution during these twelve years was a real privilege. To see it grow from its inception to a great and successful institutionwas not only satisfactory, but thrilling.
Each month I looked forward to our visit to the school, which included the board meeting, and also to the pleasant and profitable association with fellow board members who gave so freely and unselfishly of their time to this cause. Our work with the superintendent, Dr. H. H. Ramsay, who is one of the finest characters I have ever met, and who is so efficient, experienced, and outstanding in the fields of psychiatry and institutional management, was an education in itself, giving us new insight and understanding with respect to the many problems of these patients who are unable to plan for themselves or IN RETROSPECT work in their own interest. His infinite patience and sympathetic understanding of the children, their problems, handicaps, and needs, and his method of conducting the affairs of the institution, were an inspiration. In 1926, through the kindness of a generous friend, I was able to start two loan funds in the General Board. At that time I received a personal gift of $500, to be used in any way I might desire in connection with welfare work.
After careful consideration, I presented $300 to the Latter-day Saint Primary Children's Hospital, which institution had cooperated so closely with the General Board in welfare for children, and with the $200 started the two loan funds—a social service loan and scholarship fund, later designated the Amy Brown Lyman Relief Society Social Service Loan and Scholarship Fund; and a_ public health nurse loan fund, later dedicated as a memorial fund to President Clarissa S. Williams. [N connection with its educational and welfare work, the Relief Society has established since 1923 six loan and scholarship funds, one temple grant, one prize poem contest, and one prize story contest.
Following is the list: 1. A loan fund for college girls of the upper classes at the Brigham Young University, known as the Emmeline B. Wells Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund, established in 1923;. An annual prize poem contest for Latter-day Saint women, known as the Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Contest, established in 1923; ' 3. A nurse loan fund for girls desiring N 47] to enter hospitals for training, known as the Zina D. H. Young Relief Society Memorial Nurse Loan Fund, established in 1923; — 4. A temple grant for temple service for women, known as the Bathsheba W. Smith Relief Society Memorial Temple Grant, established in 1923; 5. A public health nurse loan fund for graduate nurses desiring to secure training in public health nursing known as the Clarissa S. Williams Relief Society Memorial Public Health Nurse Loan Fund, established in 1926, designated as a memorial in 1931, after her death; 6. A social service loan fund for college women desiting to study social work, social problems and related subjects, known as the Amy Brown Lyman Social Service Loan and Scholarship Fund, established in 1926, transferred for administration to the Brigham Young University in 1942; 7. A social service loan and scholarship fund known as the Louise Y. Robison Loan and Scholarship Fund, es-* tablished in 1932 and transferred for administration to the Utah State Agricultural College in 1939; 8. A woman's fellowship in social work for graduate women students at the University of Utah, known as the Amy Whipple Evans Woman's Fellowship in Social Work, established in 1937; g. An annual prize story contest for Latter-day Saint women, established in 1942. Any discussion of progressive welfare work in Relief Society could not be complete without mentioning the fact that Relief Society women worked unitedly for national prohibition, which Dr. Edward T.
Devine declared was the greatest | piece of social legislation ever passed. 'This was achieved in 1918.