[Vol29 | July 1942 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The CoverMormon Howells]
cJhe  n  ionnon  iuattauon 
llionument 
T.  J.  Howells,  M.  D. 
HTHE  Mormon  Battalion  Monument  commemorates  one  of  the 
longest  and  most  difficult  infantry  marches  in  history.  This 
Monument,  a  structure  of  rare  artistic  merit,  is  the  work  of  Gilbert 
Riswold.  It  is  beautifully  located  on  the  Utah  State  Capitol 
grounds,  and  overlooks  the  great  Salt  Lake  Valley.  The  Wasatch 
Mountains  make  an  impressive  background. 
This  Monument  typifies  the  "Spirit  of  the  West,"  and  is  unique 
and  original  in  design.  Impressive  indeed  is  the  bronze  figure 
of  the  Mormon  soldier  mounted  on  the  front  of  the  structure.  This 
rugged  individual,  poorly  equipped,  with  inadequate  supplies, 
marched  2000  miles  over  hot  desert  sands,  trackless  plains,  and 
through  cold  mountain  passes,  from  the  Missouri  River  to  the 
Pacific  Ocean,  at  the  call  of  his  country  and  his  church. 
History  does  not  record  a  march  fraught  with  more  dangers 
and  greater  hardships.  The  Mormon  Battalion  hero  was  the  van- 
guard of  civilization  in  the  West.  He  possessed  a  spirit  uncon- 
querable, and  with  complete  trust  in  God,  accomplished  a  seem- 
ingly impossible  feat. 
The  Mormon  Battalion  Monument  is  beautifully  executed.  It 
is  a  delight  to  tourists  and  visitors;  and  today,  more  than  ever 
before,  it  is  an  inspiration  to  all. 
Editor's  note:  The  cover  photograph  is  by  Dr.  T.  J.  Howells.  This  picture 
is  a  striking  view  of  the  Mormon  Battalion  Monument,  bringing  out  in  bold 
relief  the  predominating  figure,  the  heroic  Mormon  soldier,  and  showing  with 
unusual  clearness  the  accompanying  group  which  depicts  the  hardships  and 
sorrows  incident  to  this  historical  trek. 
Cover  arrangements  are  by  Evan  Jensen, 
b