[Vol29 | July 1942 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Social ScienceAmerica]

(For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States in lieu of social science lessons.)
Emma Hale Smith First Relief Society President (Tuesday, October 27, 1942)
At the age of twenty-one, Joseph Smith was employed in Harmony, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania. He boarded with Isaac Hale and fell in love with his daughter, Emma, a graceful, dark-eyed girl of strong character. Her ancestors had had deep religious convictions; some had suffered for being Huguenots, one had been burned at the stake because he was a Protestant, and several had come to America for religious freedom. Emma, also, was to suffer for her convictions.
Her father, Isaac Hale, opposed her marriage to a youth who claimed to have visions and planned to establish a new faith. But the girl's heart was fixed on the young Prophet, even though he was a poor and persecuted stranger. Joseph's mother records that her son returned home and said to his parents: "I have concluded to get married; and if you have no objections to my uniting myself with Miss Emma Hale, she would be my choice in preference to any woman I have ever seen."
The parents were pleased and requested Joseph to bring Emma to live with them. Mother Smith wrote in her Life of the Prophet: "I set myself to work to put my house in order for the reception of my son's bride, and I felt pride and ambition in doing so..." She looked forward to the companionship of her daughter-in-law; and, indeed, the bride, married against the wishes of her own family, fitted happily and well into the home life of her new parents.
Emma, born July 10, 1804, in Harmony, was married January 18, 1827. The following September 22 was the time set by the Angel Moroni for Joseph to receive the golden plates. When he left on that secret nocturnal journey, the young wife left with him in his borrowed vehicle, and returned with him the following morning.
While awaiting the delivery of strong chest, Joseph concealed the plates in a birch log about three miles from his home. Then he went to Macedon where he was employed digging a well. Rumors spread that the valuable gold plates were in Joseph's possession. A threatening crowd, hoping to seize them, gathered near the Smith home. Joseph's mother was very anxious. "If I had a horse, I could ride to Macedon," volunteered Emma. In the pasture at that moment was a stray horse with a withe around its neck which, according to law, designated the horse as lost. It was brought to the house for Emma. In Macedon, the Prophet received an impression that all was not right. Hastily dropping his tools, he climbed from the well and walked toward the house, where he saw his wife, a graceful and expert rider, approaching on the sorry-looking nag with its hickory withe. He borrowed a horse from his employer and rode home beside his bride, to protect the plates at any cost.
Two months after the organization of the Church, April 6, 1830, the Prophet's wife was baptized. A few weeks later, Joseph received a revelation directed to Emma, his wife, which is the only revelation directed to a woman recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. (See Section 25) In this revelation, Emma Smith was addressed as an "elect lady" whom God had called. She was told to be a comfort to her husband in his afflictions. She was "to go with him at the time of his going, and be unto him a scribe," and "be ordained under his hand to expound scriptures and exhort the Church." Her time was to be given to "writing and learning much," and she was "to make a selection of sacred hymns" to be used in the Church. (Many hymns of her choosing are in our song books today.) The above revelation also contains a solemn warning to "Keep my commandments continually... And except thou do this, where I am you cannot come."
Most of his life, persecution dogged the Prophet's steps, and Emma had many trials, which she endured courageously, sometimes beside her husband and sometimes separated from him. There were changes, uncertainty, and frequent moves. The young couple had left Father Smith's home, and becoming reconciled with Emma's father, had bought the property next to his in Harmony, where the translation of the plates was continued with Emma sometimes acting as scribe. Later they went to Peter Whitmer's home in Fayette, New York, where the translation was concluded. From 1831 to 1838, they lived in Hiram and Kirtland, Ohio. In Kirtland, Emma supervised the boarding and clothing of the men building the temple, and was generous and hospitable to the Saints who were moving to their first gathering place.
The Prophet and his wife experienced bitter disappointment when their firstborn child died at birth in 1828, and again when their twin son and daughter died at birth, in 1831. However, instead of giving way to grief at this second calamity, they adopted the twin babies?a boy and a girl?of John Murdock, whose wife had died at the birth of these babies. The boy died in 1832, but the girl grew to womanhood and married. Emma Smith's kindness to her foster daughter and to the Saints, and her other fine womanly qualities have come down as a tradition in the Murdock family. Sister Smith later bore five more sons; one died, and four grew to maturity.
From Kirtland the Smiths moved to Far West, Missouri, where Emma endured bitter persecution. In 1839, when the Prophet was unjustly confined in Liberty Jail, his wife, with the other Saints, was ordered to leave the state. Carrying her two youngest children and with the oldest boy and the little girl clinging to her skirts, she crossed the frozen Mississippi River on foot.
In Nauvoo, Emma Smith established three successive homes. When a violent epidemic of ague swept the early settlement, the Prophet and his wife filled their house with the sick and cared for them personally. In order to accommodate more who were ill, they pitched a tent in the yard for the well members of their own household.
WHEN the Relief Society was organized in 1842, Emma Smith became its first president. Following parliamentary procedure, she conducted the meetings with dignity. She recommended the employment of a skilled widow as a seamstress, and encouraged prompt payment for this service. She suggested buying materials to be made into clothing for the poor. She thought a committee should visit the poor and learn their needs. Her practical, intelligent ideas helped to lay the groundwork for many Relief Society activities of today.
Four months after its organization, the Society prepared a petition asking Governor Carlin of Illinois to rescind an order to turn Joseph Smith over to his enemies in Missouri. Every member signed the petition, and Emma Smith, accompanied by Amanda Smith and Eliza R. Snow, went fifty miles to Quincy, to present it personally.
On August 31, President Smith attended Relief Society meeting and thanked the women. Two weeks before this, on August 16, trusted friends had conducted Emma to a little island to meet her husband who was eluding enemies. Joseph Smith wrote of the event: "How glorious were my feelings when I met that faithful and friendly band... When I took by the hand on that night my beloved Emma... The wife of my youth, and the choice of my heart... I contemplated for a moment the many scenes we had been called to pass through, the fatigues and the toils, the sorrows and the sufferings, and the joys and consolations, from time to time, which had strewed our paths and crowned our board.... Again she is here?undaunted, firm, and unwavering?unchangeable, affectionate Emma." Yes, there were intervals of peace, with some prosperity, periods when Emma Smith, with her erect figure and proud, dark head, stood beside her husband, graciously dispensing kindness and hospitality, and enjoying many honors. However, after 1842, clouds continued to gather, culminating in the tragic martyrdom. When the bodies of Joseph and Hyrum Smith were brought to  the Mansion House, Emma was carried to her room, insensible. Five months later she gave birth to a son. She remained at Nauvoo and later married Major Bidamon. Before the martyrdom, Mother Smith, then a widow, had come to make her home with Joseph and Emma. Soon afterward, she became very ill. Speaking of her sickness, she wrote: "For five nights Emma never left me, but stood at my side all the night long." For several years prior to her death, Mother Smith lived with Emma. Emma Hale Smith died April 30, 1879, and was buried beside the Prophet Joseph Smith. References "Emma Hale Smith," Handbook of Relief Society, p. 109; A Centenary of Relief Society, p. 10. "Emma Smith the Prophet's Wife," Relief Society Magazine, April 1933, p. 236. "Emma Smith?Church Hymns," Relief Society Magazine, March 1939, p. 163. ASK FOR A FREE DEMONSTRATION DONALD G. LYMAN OTARION OF SALT LAKE. 511 McIntyre Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me free beditiet "The Story of Otarion."' Name Address "L. D. S.