[Vol29 | July 1942 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Poem | Title: General Presidents of Smith]
two  loan  funds  in  the  General 
Board.  At  that  time  I  received  a  per- 
sonal gift  of  $500,  to  be  used  in  any 
way  I  might  desire  in  connection 
with  welfare  work.  After  careful 
consideration,  I  presented  $300  to 
the  Latter-day  Saint  Primary  Chil- 
dren's Hospital,  which  institution 
had  cooperated  so  closely  with  the 
General  Board  in  welfare  for  chil- 
dren, and  with  the  $200  started  the 
two  loan  funds— a  social  service  loan 
and  scholarship  fund,  later  desig- 
nated the  Amy  Brown  Lyman  Relief 
Society  Social  Service  Loan  and 
Scholarship  Fund;  and  a  public 
health  nurse  loan  fund,  later  dedi- 
cated as  a  memorial  fund  to  Presi- 
dent Clarissa  S.  Williams. 
TN  connection  with  its  educational 
and  welfare  work,  the  Relief  So- 
ciety has  established  since  1923  six 
loan  and  scholarship  funds,  one 
temple  grant,  one  prize  poem  con- 
test, and  one  prize  story  contest. 
Following  is  the  list: 
1.  A  loan  fund  for  college  girls  of  the 
upper  classes  at  the  Brigham  Young 
University,  known  as  the  Emmeline 
B.  Wells  Relief  Society  Memorial 
Loan  Fund,  established  in  1923; 
2.  An  annual  prize  poem  contest  for 
Latter-day  Saint  women,  known  as 
the  Eliza  Roxey  Snow  Relief  Society 
Memorial  Prize  Poem  Contest,  es- 
tablished in  1923; 
3.  A  nurse  loan  fund  for  girls  desiring 
to  enter  hospitals  for  training,  known 
as  the  Zina  D.  H.  Young  Relief  So- 
ciety Memorial  Nurse  Loan  Fund, 
estabhshed  in  1923; 
4.  A  temple  grant  for  temple  service  for 
women,  known  as  the  Bathsheba  W. 
Smith  Relief  Society  Memorial  Tem- 
ple Grant,  established  in  1923; 
5.  A  public  health  nurse  loan  fund  for 
graduate  nurses  desiring  to  secure 
training  in  public  health  nursing 
known  as  the  Clarissa  S.  Williams 
Relief  Society  Memorial  Public 
Health  Nurse  Loan  Fund,  established 
in  1926,  designated  as  a  memorial  in 
1931,  after  her  death; 
6.  A  social  service  loan  fund  for  college 
women  desiring  to  study  social  work, 
social  problems  and  related  subjects, 
known  as  the  Amy  Brown  Lyman  So- 
cial Service  Loan  and  Scholarship 
Fund,  estabhshed  in  1926,  trans- 
ferred for  administration  to  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  in  1942; 
7.  A  social  service  loan  and  scholarship 
fund  known  as  the  Louise  Y.  Robi- 
son  Loan  and  Scholarship  Fund,  es-" 
tabhshed  in  1932  and  transferred  for 
administration  to  the  Utah  State 
Agricultural  College  in  1939; 
8.  A  woman's  fellowship  in  social  work 
for  graduate  women  students  at  the 
University  of  Utah,  known  as  the 
Amy  Whipple  Evans  Woman's  Fel- 
lowship in  Social  Work,  established 
in  1937; 
9.  An  annual  prize  story  contest  for 
Latter-day  Saint  women,  established 
in  1942. 
Any  discussion  of  progressive  wel- 
fare work  in  Relief  Society  could 
not  be  complete  without  mention- 
ing the  fact  that  Relief  Society 
women  worked  unitedly  for  nation- 
al prohibition,  which  Dr.  Edward  T. 
Devine  declared  was  the  greatest 
piece  of  social  legislation  ever 
passed.  This  was  achieved  in  1918. 
What  a  tragedy  that  the  law  was  re- 
pealed! {To  be  continued)

Reading  For  Understanding 
Harriet  P.  Johnson 
Member  oi  Public  Library  Staff,  Salt  Lake  City 
DURING  the  high  nervous  ten-  or  plow;  in  watching  the  corn  grow 
sion  of  wartime  with  its  ex-  and  blossoms  set;  and  after  toil,  read- 
hausting    mental    strain    and  ing,  thinking,  hoping  and  praying." 
emotional  excitement,  our  great  need 
is  to  find  some  medium  through  OOOKS  are  the  means  whereby  the 
which  we  may  gain  emotional  and  thought  of  the  author  is  corn- 
intellectual  balance  and  preserve  municated  to  man— if  man  can  but 
normalcy.  The  art  of  reading  may  as-  read  the  message.  If  man  can  read? 
sume  great  value  to  us  as  a  means  of  Yes,  it  is  true  that  very  few  can  read 
bringing  serenity  into  our  lives.  in  the  sense  of  taking  in  the  full 
If  you  enjoy  reading,  the  open  significance  of  the  printed  page,  to 
book  is  a  ready  and  sure  means  of  say  nothing  of  exercising  judgment 
freeing  your  thoughts  from  the  dead-  upon  it.  Ask  a  dozen  people  to  in- 
liness  of  reality.     There  are  books  terpret  the  message  from  a  page  of 
for  every  taste  and  mood;  books  to  Emerson's  ''Self-reliance."  They  will 
take  your  thoughts  anywhere  and  in  probably  return  with  twelve  differ- 
every  fashion.  ent  versions,  yet  Emerson  had  but 
Down  through  the  ages  we  have  one  message.  The  successful  reader 
had  master  thinkers  who  have  given  is  he  who  gains  from  the  printed 
us  in  literature  a  panacea  for  every  page  all  that  the  author  intends  to 
ill  of  life.  We  have  had  writers  with  communicate— not  only  in  thought, 
the  broad  view  of  the  philosopher,  but  in  understanding. 
who  see  beyond  the  corruption  of  The  term  ''a  great  reader"  is  often 
evil  to  the  triumph  of  righteousness,  erroneously  applied  to  one  who  reads 
We  have  had  authors  who  deal  v^th  a  quantity  of  books.    Men  who  fill 
the  beauty  of  truths  everlasting  and  their  minds  with  unassimilated  in- 
give  to  us  a  pattern  for  a  better  way  formation  Pope  calls  ''bookful  block- 
of  life.  heads."    A  ''great  reader"  is  he  who 
Read  from  such  literary  artists  as  reads  the  best  quality  of  books,  and 
John  Ruskin  who  was  primarily  an  extracts  from  them  their  full  mean- 
apostle  of  righteousness.   "No  other  ing. 
man,"  said  Carlyle,  "has  in  him  the  Successful  reading  is  not  limited  to 
divine  rage  against  iniquity,  falsity,  college  students.    One  receives  the 
and  baseness  that  Ruskin  has,  and  essential   tools   for   reading  in   the 
every  man  ought  to  have."  For  fifty  grade  schools  when  he  learns  the 
years  the  writings  of  Ruskin  took  on  written  symbols  of  language.     Suc- 
a  plea  for  a  return  to  the  simple  vir-  cessful  reading  is  but  active  thinking, 
tues.    He  reminds  the  weary  king  To  get  the  most  out  of  books  can 
and  the  tormented  slave  alike  that  become  as  exhilarating  as  the  most 
the  secrets  of  happiness  "are  in  draw-  absorbing  game, 
ing  hard  breath  over  chisel  or  spade  Sometimes  we  select  an  article  of 
Page  472

READING  FOR  UNDERSTANDING  473 
quality  to  be  read,  and  in  attempting  write  between  the  lines.  Many  peo- 
to  read  it  we  find  ourselves  confused,  pie  have  a  false  respect  for  paper, 
Under  such  circumstances  there  are  type,  and  fine  binding;  and  would 
two  things  we  might  do:  First,  we  keep  them  immaculate  to  the  extent 
might  get  external  help  by  going  to  of  sacrificing  the  gifts  of  the  author's 
textbooks,  teachers,  or  other  outside  genius.    If  one  has  a  super-de  luxe 
sources,  but  this  does  not  fully  ex-  edition  of  a  valuable  book,  he  should 
ercise  our  own  minds.     The  other  buy  a  cheap  edition  which  he  will 
alternative   is   to   settle   down   and  not  hesitate  to  mark.  Notations  be- 
wrestle  with  the  problem  ourselves,  come  a  valuable  part  of  a  book.  To 
giving  to  it  our  own  best  thought,  pick  up  a  book  with  one's  notes  of 
Light    fiction    and    other    ordinary  agreement  or  disagreement  a  year  or 
books  do  not  require  deep  thinking,  two  after  having  read  it,  is  like  resum- 
but  great  books  that  deal  with  funda-  ing  a  conversation.  However,  a  per- 
mental    problems    demand    active  son  should  never  mar  a  borrowed 
mental  effort.  book  or  a  book  belonging  to  a  public 
If  the  same  mental  processes  could  library'.    Respect  for  the  rights  and 
be  applied  to  all  reading  that  are  property  of  others  forbids  this, 
used    in    reading   love    letters,    no  One   must   remember,   too,   that 
thought  would  be  lost,  for  that  is  note  taking  is  only  a  means  of  study, 
one  type  of  literature  that  is  uni-  Too  much  dependence  on  notes  pre- 
versally    well    read.    The    recipient  vents    the    article    from    becoming 
reads  every  word  carefully,  weighing  wholly  his.    Not  until  one  can  give 
each  one  against  the  other,  and  con-  the  information  to  others  without 
sidering    each    in    relation    to    the  the  aid  of  paper  does  the  thought 
whole.    He  rereads,  considers  many  really  become  his. 
possible  interpretations,  rejects 
many,  and  finally  accepts  the  most  A  NOTHER  important  factor  in 
optimistic.    Then  he  reads  between  reading  for  understanding  is  re- 
the   lines    and    finally,    adds    some  reading.    The  value  of  rereading  a 
original  thought.  book  depends  upon  the  book  and 
There  are  some  helps  to  thought-  the  uplift  it  gives.  A  book  of  classic 
ful   reading,   such   as   note   taking,  quality  with  broad  and  wholesome 
Notes  help  one  to  retain  what  he  ^^^ws  will  yield  more  entertainment, 
has  read,  and  may  be  a  means  of  re-  information,  and  understanding  with 
cording  his  own  thoughts  on  the  sub-  every  reading.    It  may  become  an 
ject.    Notes  taken  in  a  notebook  or  inexhaustible  fountain  of  enjoyment, 
on  paper  in  the  form  of  an  outline,  information,  and  stimulation, 
setting  forth  the  major  topics  and  However,  returning  to  pages  which 
sub-topics  with  comments  for  judg-  a  period  of  years  before  held  surprise 
ment  and    understanding   are   very  and  charm  sometimes  makes  melan- 
helpful.    The  process  of  writing  is  choly  reading.   A  book  may  be  good 
a  means  of  keeping  one  mentally  at  one  stage  of  life  and  bad  at  an- 
alert,  and  is  certainly  a  valuable  aid  other.    Rereading  is  often  a  means 
to  memory.  of  measuring  one's  mental  progress. 
If  it  is  important  to  read  between  People  reread  books  for  different 
the  lines,  it  is  equally  important  to  reasons.    A  sentimentalist  rer^acjs  a

474  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1942 
book  because  he  enjoyed  it  in  his  those  who  assimilate  such  works  as 
childhood.  Another  type  of  person  Einstein's  books  on  higher  mathe- 
finds  a  book  worth  rereading  because  matics.  This  classification  seems  to 
it  echoes  his  own  unchangeable  omit  fiction.  But  fiction  is  a  form 
prejudices.  A  one-book  man  is  a  man  of  reading  indulged  in  by  readers  of 
in  a  dangerous  condition,  as  he  is  all  grades.  Its  value  is  largely  meas- 
almost  sure  to  be  psychopathic— un-  ured  by  the  reader's  need  for  relax- 
less,  of  course,  the  book  he  reads  is  ation. 
the  "Book  of  Books."  ^^  j^^^^      .    f^„^  ^^^  ^^^^^^ 
Readers  have  been  classified  as  be-  ^^^^  ^-^^  ^est  books  are  read,  there 
longing  to  one  of  three  broad  groups.  ^e  an  inequality,  to  some  de- 
It  may  be  interesbng  to  grade  our-  ^^    between  the  author  and  the 
selves.    It  we  read  such   thmgs  as  i        ^.1.^1           1 
..1  J  .  J-  ^  reader.  Inis  the  reader  must  over- 
newspapers  with  understandmg,  we  ,  •  in  i  •  i  -n 
pass  grade  one.  To  grade  two  be-  ^^"^^-  }^  
is  a  c^ienge  to  his  skill 
long  the  readers  of  such  books  as  ^^  ^  ^^^^^^-  ^^  ^^  "^^^^^^^  *^^  punted 
The  Ignorance  of  Valor  or  Over-  P^g^  ^^^  gets  the  author's  full  mes- 
street's  Brave  Enough  for  Life.  In  sage  from  it,  his  reward  is  an  increase 
grade  three  are  those  who  reach  a  in  knowledge  and  the  satisfaction  of 
peak  in  reading  for  understanding—  accomplishment. 
  ^   
A  SHIRT  TALE 
Alice  Money  Bailey 
We  laughed  at  Grandma's  romance  when  we  read 
How  she  had  washed  his  shirt;  how  every  thread 
Was  dear  to  her — his  shirt,  the  handsome  scout 
Who  whistled,  sang,  who  rode,  who  put  to  rout 
Their  fears;  this  hero  brave  who  led  the  train — 
For  they  were  dauntless  pioneers.  The  plain 
And  canyon  knew  their  west-turned  feet.   He  tossed 
It  laughingly — bestowing  favor — crossed 
The  wagon  tongue  and  tipped  her  face  to  his 
So;  for  a  breath,  she  thought — and  hoped — his  kiss 
Would  take  her  lips.  All  day,  the  story  goes. 
She  hugged  the  shirt.  They  say  she  pressed  her  nose 
Deep  in  its  folds,  and  breathed  the  scent  of  sage 
And  dust  and  campfire  smoke — each  smell  a  page 
From  his  day's  book — man-odors,  mingled,  strong.  . 
At  night,  by  firelit  wagons,  shadowed  long 
Like  galleon  sails  against  the  stars,  she  scrubbed 
The  rough  homespun.   How  lovingly  she  rubbed 
Is  duly  told — the  gentle  pats,  the  care 
She  lavished,  too.  All  this  is  charted  there. 
We  laughed  at  her,  and  called  her  silly,  young 
(For  she  was  scarce  sixteen),  that  when  she  hung 
It  up  to  dry,  the  sleeves  in  shadow  etched, 
She  fancied  it  was  he  with  arms  outstretched 
To  her.  Today  I  do  not  laugh,  for  I 
Washed  your  shirt  and  hung  it  up  to  dry.