[Vol29 | July 1942 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Secretary-Treasurer]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Vera White Pohlman General Secretary-Treasurer
Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420.
CENTENNIAL CELEBRATIONS
Denver Stake (Denver County, Colorado)
WANDA HAYCOCK, president of Pueblo Ward Relief Society, submitted the following report of activities commemorating the Relief Society centennial in the Pueblo Ward:
"On March 17, 1942, at 2:00 p. m., we held a program, then planted and dedicated our tree. In the evening, we presented our centennial program, which featured music by Singing Mothers, other musical numbers, and a play, 'Why Relief Society?' We played the record which was sent from Salt Lake, and then presented a candle-lighting ceremony, 'Progressive Candles.' After the program, cake, ice cream, and a favor were served to all attending."
The Pueblo Ward Relief Society had only thirteen members in 1937; by the close of 1941 it had enrolled ninety-three members.
Pasadena Stake (Los Angeles, California)
PASADENA Stake Relief Society, of which Irene Ethel Boice is president, submitted a detailed report of its centennial celebration. The following quotations are excerpts from this report, which was prepared by Constance B. Madsen, centennial director:
"At the beginning of the season a detailed plan was prepared, designed to bring into activity during the year every ward in the stake and every member in each ward in preparation for the general stake celebration. It was remarkable how well this plan was carried out. Hundreds of women were brought into activity, and each organization succeeded in weaving the year's work into the celebration plans. The culmination was the bringing together of all the wards' efforts into one great and memorable demonstration.
"The day [March 17] was one of those typically glorious Southern California days?such a day as might have greeted our Pioneer mothers of Relief Society as they gathered beneath a shady bowery on one of those proverbially rare days in June back in their mountain retreat. From every direction, pioneer-clad women flocked into the spacious patio of the Pasadena Stake Center, their arms laden with many types of pioneer-to-modern relics and trinkets. Each ward had been assigned a room in which to arrange its exhibits; and in busy-bee fashion, the Relief Society 'queens' from the ten wards of Pasadena Stake rapidly set up their displays in interesting, artistic arrangements. Thousands of items, many of great value, were displayed. Indeed, the vast crowd of people?approximately a thousand?who moved from room to room viewing the array of objects, acclaimed the exhibits as highly superior.
"One of the outstanding features of the celebration was the display of ward books. Each book was a compilation of art, history, gems of literature, pictures, music, and testimonies, tying in the lesson work of the year. Choice bits from the ward books were incorporated in a stake book.
"Apparently quite oblivious to the chaos of a war-torn world, the people assembled here in peaceful quietude for the first meeting promptly at ten o'clock in the morning. Harking back to the first meeting of the Society in Nauvoo, the inspiring hymn, 'The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning,' was sung with spiritual fervor. A unique welcome address was given, in which the theme of the occasion and the aim of the organization were cleverly presented. Next was a delightful tree-planting service at which the appropriate song 'Trees' was sung beautifully, and a lovely tribute was given. This was followed by ten instructive, educational demonstrations. On the tick of twelve o'clock noon, good, substantial, home-cooked food was served in pioneer motif. Although plans had been made to feed no more than four hundred, the food prepared amply served the large crowd of approximately one thousand people. At two o'clock, after dishes and tables were cleared away, original skits with a wide variety of themes were presented in the recreation hall by the ten wards. Awards were presented to the wards with the winning skits.
"As the golden sun sank in the western sea marking the close of another day, a benediction was pronounced upon this memorable commemoration of the founding of the Relief Society organization. It was a day filled with events and happiness that might easily linger for many years in the memory of all who attended."
MEMBERS OF PASADENA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD IN COSTUME AT STAKE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION Front row, seated, left to right: Laura P. Cheney, secretary; Irene Ethel Boice, president; Sarah Harrison, first counselor. Standing behind President Boice is Maple Hutchins, second counselor; Constance B. Madsen, centennial director, is at extreme left.
North Central States Mission (Minneapolis, Minnesota)
ULRIKA COOK, president of Duluth Branch Relief Society, submitted the following report prepared by Magda Syrstad King, centennial committee chairman of this branch:
"A colorful centennial pageant, adapted and directed by Magda Syrstad King, with music arranged by Dorothy Anderson Topliff, was presented by the Duluth Branch Relief Society. The pageant included three parts, as follows: The first part, 'General History,' depicted highlights of service in Relief Society under the leadership of the eight general presidents. These characters were represented mainly by the older women of our branch. In their authentic costumes they made an inspiring contribution to the evening's entertainment. The members who had joined our branch during the membership drive wore formal evening gowns and carried pennants depicting the steps of progress during Relief Society's hundred years.
"The second part, 'Local History,' showed the development of the local branch over a period of twenty-three years, and the growth of the different activities. In part three, 'Gathering of Zion,' all members were dressed in the national costumes representative of the various countries from which converts had come to live within the near influence of the Church. This scene impressed upon the group the idea of universal brotherhood among peoples throughout the world.
"All three scenes were presided over by a symbolical figure of the 'Spirit of Relief Society' as a guiding influence in all activities of the organization. The Singing Mothers' chorus sang two centennial songs, the occasion being their first public appearance. Small souvenir booklets were given to all who were present as a memento of an evening long to be remembered in our midst. A birthday cake and ice cream were served, concluding the entertainment."
CENTENNIAL PAGEANT, DULUTH BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION
Rigby Stake (Rigby, Idaho)
ORA J. HENRY, first counselor in Rigby Stake Relief Society, reported the centennial celebration in Rigby First Ward, as follows:
"The Rigby First Ward Relief Society commenced observance of the centennial by presenting, in conjunction with sacrament meeting, Sunday evening, March 15, the one-act play, 'The Great Fig Tree,' by Joseph J. Cannon. The radio program, broadcast from station KSL, Salt Lake City, March 17, from 8:00 to 8:30 a. m., came in very clearly and distinctly and was enjoyed by many. For our tree-planting ceremony we planted two juniper evergreens near the entrance of our chapel.
"On the evening of March 17, a banquet was held in the stake tabernacle, where members and their husbands were seated at five long tables beautifully decorated with candles and flowers, gifts from the Sunday School, Mutual Improvement Association, and Primary. A large birthday cake decorated with one hundred candles was placed for the centerpiece. A splendid program was presented, and three charter members of our ward Relief Society?Sally A. Cordon, Mary Ellen Call, and Hattie Robins Williams?were honored. Mary Ellen Call was also especially honored as the mother present having the most daughters and granddaughters engaged in Relief Society work. Recordings extending centennial greetings from President Heber J. Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman were played as part of the program, and were greatly enjoyed. A conjoint dancing party of the Rigby First and Second Wards concluded the day's entertainment."
RIGBY FIRST WARD TREE PLANTING CEREMONY, RIGBY STAKE Juniper trees planted in observance of centennial are shown on either side of group.
Nebo Stake (Utah County, Utah)
MAUDE LUDLOW, secretary of Benjamin Ward Relief Society, reports their centennial celebration, from which excerpts are quoted, as follows:
"Although our ward is small, a very fine centennial program was put over under the direction of President Elsie Cornaby. It began with a tree-planting ceremony at _ ten o'clock in the morning. At two o'clock, a program honoring the past presidents of our ward was given; and in the evening, a pageant, "The Wheels of Progress,? was presented. This was followed by a dance in the ward hall. All in all, it was an outstanding celebration showing the growth of Relief Society, and it was enjoyed by all who attended." Logan Stake (Cache County, Utah) ROVIDENCE Second Ward Relief Society, of which Edna B. Poulsen is president, reports a very successful and enjoyable centennial celebration. Excerpts from this report, submitted by Mrs. E. B. Maughan, follow: "We had the unique privilege of honoring the five presidents of our ward Relief Society, all of whom are still members of our ward. A pageant portraying the Relief Society activities of these presidents was presented, under the direction of Eliza Zollinger.  "The story of their lives is the story of the growth of the community.. In the early days, the women were called upon to act as doctors and nurses. They prepared bodies for burial, and, in some cases, even made the caskets. They made burial clothes and cared for the sick and unfortunate. Now, much of the 
 ?JULY 1942 CENTENNIAL TREE-PLANTING CEREMONY, MEXICAN-INDIAN BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, JUAREZ STAKE work of the Relief Society is in support of the great welfare program of our Church?canning fruits and vegetables, remodeling clothing, making quilts, etc. "From the beginning of our ward, the Relief Society has helped to raise funds for the maintenance of the ward, and has helped to beautify the ward chapel and grounds. "To see all this in pageant form was stimulating and thrilling indeed." Juarez Stake (Chihuahua, Mexico) NELLE S. HATCH, president of Juarez Stake Relief Society, reported that the centennial was fittingly observed with an appropriate program, pageant, banquet, and dance in each ward in the stake. The cantata, "Resurrection Morning," by the late B. Cecil Gates, was pleasingly presented in both the Juarez and Dublan Wards, in addition to a pageant depicting the growth of Relief Society in the Church, stake, and ward, and a one-act play entitled "Why?" The Chuichupa, Garcia, and Pacheco wards each held a banquet, at which a birthday cake with one hundred candles was conspicuous. Also, a program showing the growth of Relief Society in the Church and this ward was presented. Chuichupa Ward compiled a very interesting scrapbook containing pictures and autographs of the ward members, both past and present. The small branches located at Chihuahuz and at Cananea Sonora made the day a special occasion with a buffet supper and program and an interesting party, respectively. Twenty-seven centennial trees were planted throughout the stake, and each tree-planting was made impressive with an appropriate ceremony. The accompanying picture shows officers of the Mexican-Indian Branch Relief Society and their husbands at their tree-planting ceremony.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 497 CENTENNIAL PAGEANT, EVANSTON SECOND WARD, WOODRUFF STAKE Woodruff Stake (Lincoln and Uinta Counties, Wyoming; Rich County, Utah) HARLOTTE BURLEIGH, sectetary-treasurer of Evanston Second Ward Relief Society, submitted the following report of this ward's centennial celebration: ""A Centennial Birthday,' a pageant written by Esther Warburton, assistant secretary-treasurer, depicting the organization of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and portraying the progress and achievement made by Relief ? Society, was presented by the Evanston Second Ward. The Singing Mothers' chorus, directed: by Miss Nellie Davies, contributed the music for the pageant. In the finale, the chorus and cast of the pageant sang 'A Song of Tnumph,' which was written for the centennial by the late Beatrice F. Stevens." In the background of the accompanying picture can. Be seen a representation of "The Spirit of Relief Society" and a large birthday cake under the "Arch of 'Triumph."