[Vol29 | July 1942 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Cannon]

HAPPEN NGS Annie Wells Cannon Oh how the heart in rapture thrills o'er the beauty of the Wasatch hills When like a crown the lilies lie sweet scented 'neath a cloudless sky. WENTY-FIVE years ago, in 1917, our boys went off to war to the sound of martial music 'mid tumult and shouting; glamour and glory was in every good-by; now in 1942, again is heard the tread of marching feet, but the glamour has departed and the farewells are like a solemn prayer. A great lesson has been learned from the solemn reminders of fields of white crosses and hospitals filled with disabled war veterans.
This time the battle line is farther flung, this time our glorious flag, that never knew defeat until Corregidor, is threatened as never before; this time in greater faith we cry— Lord, God of Hosts) be with us yet, Lest we forget—lest we forget! IEUTENANT = FLORENCE McDONALD headed the nine heroic nurses who escaped by plane from Corregidor to Australia after the most horrifying experiences perhaps ever endured by women.
Each had her own story to tell. For four months "Mac" supervised her nurses under an almost steady thud of bombs overhead in the deep recesses of Malinta tunnel, after their hospital had been smashed to smithereens. GEN ORITA ROSE DURLAND, of Havana, has been appointed attache of the Cuban legation in London. She is one of the few women diplomats in the world. ESSIE SCHOFIELD, former superintendent of recreation for Salt Lake City, has accepted an appointment with the army and navy recreation program of the American Red Cross to work somewhere overseas. RS. GROVER RICH, of Utah, was elected president of the National Order of Women Legislators at the recent convention held in Annapolis, Maryland. ELEANOR ROOSEVELT would "~ not have any of her help working in slacks and anklets. She thinks they may be all right for young slender women or where a woman's work can be better done with the slack apparel, not otherwise. NELLIE MAY KUNKLE DORAN, a Utahn now living in California, has published a volume of verses called Autumn Leaves, and Olive Woolley Burt, another Utah poet, has issued an attractive children's book called God Gave Me Eyes; Nina Fedorova's new book The Children is full of beauty and tenderness; The Castle On the Hill is the name of a new novel by Elizabeth Goudge. [eX= THOMPSON BLEAK, 96, who remembered once having conversed with Abraham Lincoln, and Mary Ann Richards Fleet, go, both remarkable pioneer mothers, died last spring. LAST June women were admitted to Princeton University's engineering department—the first women ever admitted to Princeton. 475


Vol. 29 JULY 1942 No. 7
Where Have We Wasted? (Isaiah 58:3) [N a day when tragic war encircles the globe and new trials and sorrows must be met almost daily, Latter-day Saints may well turn with renewed zeal to those principles and practices which build the Church and bring spiritual strength to the individual. Among these is the fast observance, a practice that is too often neglected or not fully adhered to, and one whose blessings and power many of us are inclined to minimize. The principle of fasting is an ancient one. The prophet Joel instructed the people: '"'Sanctify ye a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land into the house of the Lord your God and cry unto the Lord." Zechariah 7:1 records: "Speak unto all the people of the land, and to the priests, saying, When ye fasted and mourned in the fifth and seventh month, even those seventy years, did ye all fast unto me, even to me." The Savior taught us the great principle of fasting when for forty days and forty nights He fasted in the wilderness. Paul spoke of the fourteen-day fast of those who were with him in the boat as he journeyed to the courts of Caesar. The word of the Lord came to Latter-day Israel through revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1831 and again in 1832. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:76 says: Page 476
Also, I give unto you a commandment that ye shall continue in prayer and fasting from this time forth. Brigham Young, referring to the institution of the fast day in-modern times says: "Before tithing was paid, the poor were supported by donations, They came to Joseph and wanted help in Kirtland, and he said there should be a fast day which was decided upon.: It was to be held once a month... And all that would have been eaten that day, of flour, or meat, or butter, or fruit, or anything else; was to be carried to the fast meeting and put into the hands of the person selected for the purpose of taking care of it and distributing it among the poor." President Joseph F. Smith, in Gospel Doctrine tells us, "that the Lord has instituted the fast on a reasonable and intelligent basis," and that the "...