TO THE YOUNG SISTERS IN PROVO.

	This address is prompted by a feeling of
deep interest in your welfare. Realizing
more than you possibly can at present, the
great future which is before each one of you,
I have an intense anxiety that you should,
in youth, pursue that course which will re-
sult in the greatest good to yourselves as in-
dividuals, and to all with whom you may be
associated.
	Youth is the springtime of life, and very
early those seeds are sown, either for good
or for evil, which will not only yield corres-
ponding harvests in the autumn of this
present existence, but also in the life to
come. How important then, are the fleeting
moments of childhood and youth, and how
necessary that they should be wisely em-
ployed, and with a reference to future re-
sults! Your positions in society depend
much, very much upon your own efforts and
determinations while young—either to be 
despised by the good, or to be honored and
respected by them.
	You each possess the germs of every fac-
ulty that constitutes noble, dignified and
exalted womanhood; and their develop-
ment, much, if not altogether, depends upon
your own exertions. No young ladies else-
where on earth, have so many advantages 
and good opportunities for becoming emi-
nently useful, as those of Utah; and I hum-
bly and earnestly entreat you to avail your-
selves of every privilege afforded you, that
will aid in accomplishing this great and
grand purpose. You can choose, and mark
your own destinies—either to become hon-
orable women, and co-workers in the king-
dom of God, with those whose names will be
venerated from generation to generation, or
to become tools for the adversary—go down
to your graves with dishonor, and let your
memories perish.
	In these last days, the adversary has great
power, and will entice from the path of im-
provement, all those who do not, with fixed
and noble purpose, set their faces as flint
against the pride and follies of the world.
This you cannot do, without the Spirit of God
in your hearts; to cultivate which, you are
called upon to enter into a mutual, social or-
ganization—one devised by the wisdom of
God, and which if properly entered into,
and wisely conducted, will prove of great
worth to those who wish (as every young
lady in Zion should do) to become wise and
loving wives and mothers, and active and
efficient members of society—prepared to
officiate in all womanly departments.
	Such is the object of all the Retrenchment
Associations that have been organized in
Salt Lake City; but their aims and workings
are as little understood, and as unapprecia-
ted by many who profess to be saints, as the
fulness of the gospel and its benefits are by
the people of the world abroad. Many seem
to think that these organizations and assem-
blies are only aiming to establish a plain
style of dress; but, whatever the ignorance
of some may prompt them to think, does
not change the facts as we know them—that
much good has already resulted from this
co-operation, in which many earnest women
are working in union for mutual improve-
ment for the benefit of Zion, not only re-
trenching table extravagance, and what is
ludicrous and disgusting in the fashion of
dress, but, also retrenching ignorance, the
spirit of the world, and everything else that
is opposed to noble womanhood, and pro-
gress in the path to perfection. We are
uniting our faith and works, as fellow-help-
ers with our brethren, in the great work
of salvation, and while many of our young

[Column 2]
sisters, by co-operating in their exertions in
an associated capacity, are making great im-
provement, we want the young ladies of
Provo to step forward—avail themselves of
the opportunity, and not be a whit behind
this noble class of sisters who are struggling
for physical, moral, intellectual and spiritual
progression.
	You need not fear being obliged to dress
plainer than you wish—by associating in ac-
cordance with the design of this organiza-
tion, you will get the Spirit of God, which
is the spirit of intelligence that leads into
all truth, and as you learn to cherish it,
you will understand the mind and will of
God—it will instruct you in the true princi-
ples of beauty and loveliness, and, in fulfill-
ment of the words of an ancient prophet,
you, as daughters of Zion, will become as
“polished stones,” and far more beautiful
than the devotees of worldly fashion. We
do not wish you to discard all ornament, but
we want you to possess that independence
of character that will prompt you to culti-
vate correct tastes, and each one wear what
is most becoming to her own person, and not
feel compelled to wear precisely what others
do, which many times is done at the sacri-
fice of better judgment. It is to be hoped
that none of you are so destitute of good
solid sense, as to waste that time on dress,
which should be spent in enriching and or-
namenting your hearts and minds, and en-
dowing them with all that is truly useful,
ornamental and imperishable.
	We want you to retrench in every thing
that is uncomely—whatever approaches to-
wards vulgarity in speech and manners;
and, at home and abroad, study refinement
and correct habits, for by so doing, you will
at all times be prepared to associate with
ease and self-possession, with the most re-
fined and intelligent. By meeting together
in an organized capacity, you can assist each
other in all that tends to purify, elevate and
qualify you to become useful and influential,
instead of worthless members of society—
to beautify and happify home—to be happy
yourselves, and make all happy around you,
and to honorably discharge the high duties
and responsibilities, which, as Latter-day
Saints, await you. I hope you possess en-
ergy of character sufficient to determine to
BE SOMEBODY and to DO SOMETHING—ascer.
tain the object of your birth in this momen-
tous dispensation, and prepare to accomplish
it. Never flinch from a wise purpose, neith-
er fear the insinuations and taunts which
you probably will meet from those who con-
descend to be nothing but butterflies that
gaily shine and flutter for a short period, and
then disappear forever. I trust, young la-
dies, you will so honor your organization,
that the brethren in Provo will be stimula-
ted to organize the young men and boys.
You may lead out in the right direction, but
they should not stay long in the rear.
	I am happy in recommending Mrs. M. T.
Smoot as the Superintendent of your Socie-
ty. She is truly a woman of God—has had
much experience, and her counsels and in-
structions will be in wisdom, and she will
do honor to her position as a mother to your
Association.
	May the Spirit and wisdom of the Most
High direct you in all time to come, that
you may honor Him and your own beings.
	With much love,
