TO ANY GIRL WHO MAY CLAIM IT.

	They tell me you are what the world calls
a flirt, and you have openly boasted of the
conquests you have made through the power
of coquetry. Pause, I beg of you; it is not
yet too late; you cannot know whither this
tendency is leading you, or you would never
have entered the path. There are many
reasons why you should pause. The fact
that you are so debasing your womanhood
proves conclusively that you never could
have known the power of a passion that has
many times made demons of angels.
	Oh! you blush. It is well; it gives hope
for the future—it tells that you are not dead
to reason and shame. Shall I tell you why
you are on the brink of terrible danger?
Does not your own heart tell you that some
time, as there enters into the heart of every
man and woman, sooner or later, a love
stronger than death and true as truth, so it
must come to you, and in your soul of souls
you must feel that only the man worthy the
admiration and love of any woman is one
that would not for an instant trifle with the
affections of another? Do you think that
the true man whom you could honor as a
husband would care to take to his embrace a
wife whose lips had been sullied by careless
and promiscuous contact with any one who
had chanced to be the favorite of the hour?
	You may plead, in extenuation of your
fault, that you were engaged to those whose
caresses you permitted, but in the several
instances referred to discovered before it
was too late that you had mistaken a pass-
ing fancy for a lifelong affection. It is no
excuse at all. Indeed, it proves you weaker
than before. You have no right to promise
yourself in marriage to a man whom you
are not sure you can love until death. These
are not to be made matters of haste; and
when you so far forget your womanly dig-
nity as to snap at any chance bait that may
be offered, to find out later that you are mis-
taken, you must not wonder that  your name
is bandied carelessly about among your mas-
culine acquaintances, and the better kind of
men begin to shun you.
	There is a difference, my young friend,
between prudishness and womanly self-re-
spect, and you will always find that any
man, high or low, pure in thought or thor-
oughly debased, will not forget the defer-
ence due to a true woman. You ought to
know instinctively that familiarity is no
evidence of manly regard, and the proffered
caress too often springs from a motive so
base that I need not name it. Guard your-
self, then, that when the time does come in
which you can truly say to any man that he
is more to you than all else, you will have
no reluctance to lay before him the history
of your past life, unspotted by the breath of
suspicion, untarnished by practices not open
to the world; and, when the time does
come, as you would have true sympathy and
happiness in the future, give each other
your confidence regarding the past; let there
be no sealed pages, no forgotten details,
whose ghostly presence will haunt you ever
after, and, if discovered, cast a shadow be-
tween you and him who has trusted you.—
Ex.


The latest precious saying is by a little
girl on the Pacific Coast. She had torn one
of her nails to the quick, and going to her
mother, while the pain filled her eyes with
tears, said holding up the wounded finger,
"Mamma, I dess I shall have to go up to
Heaven and det anozzer put on."


