SENATOR SUMNER.

	SALT LAKE CITY, March 26th 1874.
SISTER L. G. RICHARDS.
	I have now before me a picture of the
late Hon, Charles Sumner. He has been
eulogized by the American Nation, also by
the dwellers in the old world for his native
goodness, integrity, and fearless firmness in
defending every move, or measure against
injustice and wrong.
	I feel a desire to say a few words to the
readers of the EXPONENT, concerning this
great, and good, man. After the Cullom Bill,
in its modified form had passed the House
of Representatives, every effort was put
forth by the "ring,” to have the Cragin Bill,
passed in the Senate.
	I was residing in Washington at the time.
I had never met or been introduced to Mr.
Sumner; but determined to call on him and
get him enlisted on our side if possible.
On arriving at his residence, his man-ser-
vant said I could not see Mr. Sumner, that
he had positive orders to admit no one that
day, I told him, my business would admit
of no delay: he said he was sorry, but he
dared not take my card to Mr. Sumner. I
replied, ‘Then I will go in unannounced, if
you will show me the way.' He hesitated,
then said “If you dare go, I will show you.”
After being shown, I just stepped inside his
Office door. Mr. Sumner arose from his
desk with a paper in his hand, and looked—
not at all pleasant—at the intruder. I bowed
—gave my name, and told him that my busi-
ness was imperitive and I hoped he would
pardon the intrusion. His answer was
quick and sharp, “Madam I can give you
thirty seconds.” said I, ‘Thank you Sir, I
can do with fifteen’—He placed me a chair
and took out his watch; I laid my business
before him, and rose to take my leave, he
looked at me, and said, “Thank you, you
have accomplished it in fifteen seconds—
now, be seated; what are these people, the
Mormons, to you?” I told him they were
my people. “How long have you been a
Mormon?” I told him nearly twenty years.
He said, “Then you ought to know them.
I promise not only to defend them now, but
will defend them in all future time.” He
assured me that the bill would not leave the
Committee Room, that he would oppose it
to the best of his ability.
	He held his hand to me, and said, “Do
not fear for your people, that bill, will never
trouble them.” He thanked me for having


faith in him, also for persevering to see him;
and after detaining me fifteen minutes over
the fifteen seconds, he arose from his chair
and escorted me to the door.
	In conclusion, let me say, whilst the out-
side world lauds his fame, it would seem to
me to be ungrateful, to the illustrious dead,
to let his kindness to us, and our cause, be
buried in oblivion.
				ELIZABETH DAVIS.
					Fourteenth Ward.


[Column 1]
