DIVERSIONS.
			——
	TABLE of interest—The dinner-table.
	NOT a case of necessity—A cigar case.
	A BLUNDER BUSS—Kissing the wrong girl.
	IF you are out in a driving storm, don’t
attempt to hold the rains.
	IT is remarked that wood will last much
longer if left for the women folks to saw and
split.
	IF a tailor agrees to put braid on a coat,
does he always consider the agreement bind-
ing?
	Q.—What piece of coin is doubled by tak-
ing away its half?
	A.—A half-penny.
	WHILE witnessing a game of base ball out
West a boy was struck on the back of his
head, the bawl coming out of his mouth.
	IN Decatur, Ill., when a young lady de-
clines an offer to convey her home, he asks
permission to sit on a fence and see her go
by.
	SOME people are easily satisfied. A Ken-
tucky lady recently had her arm amputated
by two surgeons “in a manner creditable to
the profession and satisfactory to the pa-
tient.”
	"KISSES," says Sam Slick, "are like crea-
tion, because they are made out of nothing,
and very good." "They are also," says the
Galaxy, "like sermons, requiring two heads
and an application."
	A CHAP from the country, stopping at one
of the hotels, sat down to dinner. Upon the
bill of fare being handed to him by the
waiter, remarked, that he didn't care
'bout readin' now—he'd wait till after din-
ner."
	"WHAT is a more exhilarating sight,"
asks a Vermont paper, "than to see eighteen
handsome girls sliding down hill on an ox-
sled?" "Nineteen," says the experienced
editor of the Boston "Post."
	A PRETTY and well dressed young lady,
after looking at several pairs of lavender
colored gloves in a shop, lately, shocked the
assistant by asking him which pair he
thought the "lavenderest."
	AN old minister enforced the diffence of
opinion by this argument: "Now, if every-
body had been of my opinion, they would
all have wanted my old woman." One of
the deacons, who sat behind, responded,
"Yes, and if everybody was of my opinion, 
nobody would have had her." 
	A JUSTICE, better versed in law than gos-
pel, not long since married a couple in this
way: "Hold up your right hands. You sol-
emnly swear that you will perform the du-
ties of your office, jointly and severally, ac-
cording to your best skill and judgment, so
help you God. Fee, one dollar."
	 FOOLISH Questions—"Will you take this
woman to be your wedded wife?" asked an
Illinois magistrate of the masculine of a
couple who stood up before him. "Well,
squire, you must be a tarnal green hand to
ask me such a question as that ar'. Do you
think I'd be such a plaguey fool as to go to
the bar hunt, and take this ar' gal from the
quiltin' frolic, if I wasn't conscriptuously sar-
tin and determined to have her? Drive on
with your business, and don't ax foolish
questions."
	A "RUNNER" for a Milwaukee house, a
few days ago, in La Crosse, was anxious to
cross the river on the ice, but was told itwas dangerous, so he got on his hands and
knees and crawled across, hauling a skiff on
the ice to get into if the ice broke. After
he had crawled about half way across, and
was all tired and dicouraged, he heard a
noise behind him, and, thinking the ice was
breaking he got on his knees, just as a load
of wood came up behind him. The ice was
a foot thick, and some other 'runners' had
played it on him. He is searching for the
fellow who told him the ice was thin.


