THE SEX.

	LADY Burdett Coutts is leading the cru-
sade against cruelty to animals in England.
	THE SUPREME Judicial Court of New
Hampshire has a new clerk, a lady.
	A YOUNG lady in Vermont is six feet
seven inches high, and she isn't stuck up,
either.
	MISS Emma S. Eastman, of Worcester,
was the first lady graduate of Cornell Uni-
versity.
	THE first lady ever appointed a collector
of internal revenue is Mrs. S. N. Parker, of
the fourth Indiana district.
	MADAM Camilla Urso's first exclamation,
when she was burned in Boston, the other
day, was, “Oh; shall I never play again?”
	MRS. Sibley, of Chelsea, Mass., has in-
vented a rotary loom, doing three times the
work of an ordinary loom in one-third the
space.
	IT is said that Mrs. General Sherman is
very much opposed to round dances, and
will not permit her daughters to participate
in them.
	MISS Jewell, eldest daughter of our min-
ister at St. Petersburgh is said to have been
the prettiest skater in the rink at a recent
skating festival over there.
	MISS Annie C. Howells, sister of the edi-
itor of the "Atlantic Monthly," and for-
merly literary editor of the Chicago "Inter-
Ocean," is engaged as literary editor of the
St. Louis "Globe."
	MRS. Betsy Dodge, of McConnellsville,
O., has added to previous and liberal dona-
tions to Buchtel College, a recent gift of $1,
000 for the benefit of the Woman's Profess-
orship,
	THE wife of Mr. John L. Shorey, pub-
lisher of the "Nursery," has served on the
School Committee of Lynn for three years.
She has proved to be a very influential
member of the board. Her services have
been saticfactory to all.
	A FEMALE graduate of the medical de-
partment of the Iowa University has taken
the first prize for the best performed dissec-
tion in surgical anatomy, in a class consisting
of twenty-two young men and one other
young woman.
	MISS Lucia W. Peabody has applied to the
Massachusetts Supreme Court for a writ of
mandamus against the Boston School Board
to show cause why she should not occupy the
seat in the Board to which she has been
elected.


