HOME AFFAIRS.
  MRS. ABBA C. Haven, of Morgan Co., Utah,
is agent for the EXPONENT in that vicinity; and
Mrs. Julia A. Hales of Spanish Fork, for that
settlement.
  AGENTS FOR the EXPONENT, and all others
interested in its welfare and advancement, will
please bear in mind that two numbers after the
present will complete the 2nd volume; and that
volume 3 should commence with many addi
tions to the subscription list, and brighter pros-
pects than have ever yet opened before it.
   MRS. ISABELLA W. Davis, writing from St.
Charles, Bear Lake Valley, informs us that the
past winter has been the most pleasant in that
portion of country that the inhabitants have
ever known. They have had but little snow
and very little hard winds. Sabbath Schools,
Sunday,and Thursday evening meetings are all
well attended. Sister Davis also notices the
death, on the 24th ult., of Frederick Oleson of
that place, who drove a nail into his brain and
cut his throat, after which he lingered about 13
hours. The cause of the suicide is said to have
been disappointment in love affairs.
   ON THE 6th inst. the snow lay about 18 inches
deep around some of the settlements in Cache
Valley. Some of the first settlers say, the past
winter has been the most severe ever experienced
in that valley.
   BEAR LAKERS send the consoling word to
the dwellers in Cache, that if the Rail Road
only extended through their country, they
would send over some hay for the poor cattle
which are starving in Cache. They are more
accustomed to long, hard winters in Bear Lake
Valley, and were better prepared for it this time,
though it did not visit them.
   THE CITIZENS of Ogden are raising means to
lay a planked sidewalk from the Depot to the
central part of the town.
   THE RELIEF Society at Ephraim, Sanpete
Co., lately purchased a handsome Sacramental
Service for that place. It was obtained through
Bro. C. C. Asmussen, and cost $114.
   THE FIRST company of Saints for this season,
are to leave Liverpool, England, on the 6th of
May.
   THE UTAH Northern R. R. has lately receiv-
ed five new narrow guage cars; one mail and
baggage, and four flat cars. About two hundred
men, under the direction of Superintendent
Moses Thatcher, are engaged on the road, and
are doing good work. Mr. Thatcher calculates
that early in May, the track will be completed
and the trains running from Ogden to Franklin.
   A SUNDAY School Union for Weber County
was organized at a meeting held in the second
ward school house, Ogden, on the 4th of this
month. Following are the names of the offi-
cers elected:
   R. Ballantyne, President.
   David M. Stuart and Thomas Wallace, Vice-
Presidents.
   R. A. Ballantyne, Secretary and Treasurer;
   L. F. Monch, Correspondlug Secretary.
   A number of resolutions were unanimously
accepted, out of which we select the following:
   Resolved.—That the officers of this Union
are hereby constituted a Board of Directors to
transact business pertaining to the interests of
Sunday Schools in the county.
   Resolved.—That the Corresponding Secretary
shall communicate with the Territorial Sunday
School Union in relation to a history of the
Church suitable for Sunday School libraries,
also concerning a primary Catechism and other
matters.
   Resolved.—That we hold a musical festival
for all our Sunday Schools in the county, be-
tween the 15th of May and the 15th of June
next.


