ENCOURAGING TO WOMEN.

	It is not many decades since Charles Lamb,
that gentle and charitable soul, said: "A fe-
male poet, or female author of any kind,
ranks below an actress I think." Mrs. Som-
erville, Harriet Martineau, Mrs. Mill, Fran-
ces Power Cobb, Margaret Fuller, Mrs.
Howe—scores of women of our time are the
sufficient refutation of the unworthy sneer.
When the brilliant Fox stopped Dr. Aiken
in the street to praise his volume of essays,
and, approving one after another, was told,
"That one my sister wrote," the wit and
gallant shifted the subject, not being pre-
pared to concede to a woman any powers of
original thinking. But our ablest critic
reads George Eliot with profound respect,
bending the best powers of his mind to com-
prehend her subtle yet bold thinking.
Grave theologians and eminent casuists are
set at naught by the audacious wit of Gail
Hamilton. And teh Ithuriel's spear of a
woman's genius, touching the hideous
wrong of slavery, which was above law, re-
vealed it to its swift destruction.
	It is not two generations since the laws of
every State in the Union bore most une-
qually and unjustly upon married women in
the matter of property, of wages, of divorce,
of the custody of their children or of the
claim to their services. In at least nineteen
of these States the influence of the agita-
tion about the "woman question" has modi-
fied the statutes to absolute or approximate
justice. Moreover, wives themselves have
not only obtained admission to the bar, but
have even delivered from the bench expo-
sitions of that science in whose own words
"the very being and existence of the woman
is suspended during the overture (of mar-
riage), or entirely merged and incorporated
in that of the husband."
	Elizabeth Blackwell took her reputation
in her hand, when, twenty years ago, she
went to Europe to walk the hospitals. Fash-
ionable women feared to lose caste if they
employed her on her return, and the college
of physicians looked askance at her. But
Dr. Mary Putman comes home from Paris
with a European reputation for scholarship
and capacity, and finds confidence, admira-
tion, competence, and the professional esprit
du corps awaiting her.
	It is not twenty years since Lucretia Mott
was refused permission to preach in Federal
Street Church, Boston. We do not remem-
ber how many women preachers to-day have
congregations. But counting those who
speak from that broad Church pulpit, the
Lyceum platform, the list is not small.
	When Florence Nightingale wished to
take charge of the Female Sanitarium she
could find no opportunity of instruction in
England. Now there is a model training
school for nurses in Liverpool, which is but
the predecessor of others; while our own,
though but in their inception, give promise
of great usefulness.
	When a school of design for women was
proposed in England, a petition was present-
ed to the authorities praying that women
might not be taught, at the expense of the
Government, occupations which would take
the bread out of the mouths of the men al-
ready engaged therein. Schools of design
give sufficient employment to many women
in France, Germany, England and America
to-day.
	Eighty years ago Mary Wollstonecraft
published her "Vindication of the Rights of
Woman." It was a book laid under ban as
irreligious and immoral. Yet it consists
simply of a forcible and logical plea for the
higher education of women, an exposure of
the false sentimentality of Rosseau and

[Column 2]
Gregory, and a claim that morality should
mean the same thing in both sexes. Half
of her demand has been conceded, and the
rest, if still denied, is not denounced.
	The question of co-education and of equal
education obtains more prosperous answers
day by day. The question of wider employ-
ments is almost lost in concession. The
question of wages, though far enough from
fair solution, is debated by a whole commu-
nity instead of by a handful of needy
women. 
	The question of suffrage alone seems not
to command the public thought, and seems
only. The Churches pay a modern respect
to the capacity, intelligence and business
aptitude of women unknown before our day
The Grangers, Good Templars and other
powerful societies recognize the eligibility
of woman—“Ch. Union.”


