LITTLE FOLKS.

	No other living thing can go so slow as a
boy—on an errand.
	A barren rock—When the cradled baby
refuses to go to sleep.
	A little girl in Des Moines wants to know
why there are no “he dolls.” Sure enough
why not?
	An interesting little boy, timid when left
alone in a dark room, was overheard recently
by his mother to say in his loneliness, “Oh,
Lord, don’t let any body hurt me, and I’ll
go to church next Sunday, and give you
some money.”
	A teacher,questioning little boys about the
graduation in the scale of being, asked,
“What comes next to man?” A little shaver,
who was evidently smarting under a pre-
vious defeat, immediately distanced all
competitors by promptly shouting, “His
undershirt, ma’am.”
	A lady teacher inquired of the members
of a class of juveniles if any of them could
name the four seasons. Instantly the chubby
hand of a five-year-old was raised, and
promptly came the answer, “Pepper, salt,
vinegar, and mustard.”
	A Church deacon laid his hand upon the
shoulder of a little urchin who was playing
in the church porch, and thus addressed
him: “My son I believe the devil has hold
of you.” “I believe he has, too!” was the
urchin’s significant reply.
	“Papa will soon be- here,” said mama to
her three-year-old; “what can Georgy do to
welcome him?” And the mother glanced
at the child’s playthings, which lay scattered
in wild confusion on the carpet.
	“Make the room neat,” replied the little
one, understanding the look, and immedi-
ately beginning to gather his toys into a
basket.
	“What more can we do to welcome papa?”
asked mama, when nothing was wanting to
the neatness of the room.
	“Be happy to him when he comes,” cried
the dear little fellow, jumping up and down
with eagerness, as he watched at the win-
dow for his father's coming.
	Now, as all the dictionaries will testify,
it is very hard to give good definitions, but
did not Georgy give the very substance of a
welcome? “Be happy to him when he
comes.”
	Senator Sprague’s Boy.—one day lately
at the breakfast table Senator Sprague said
to his son, “You must understand, my boy,
that you are the son of a poor man, and will
have your own way to make in the world.
I have fifty cents in my pocket, not a cent
more; so after breakfast I think I’ll take you
out and get a boot-blacking apparatus for
you. You must learn to black your own
boots, like a poor man's son, you know.
The little fellow listened intently, then
said: "Well, papa, can't I black your boots
and save you something?” “Oh, certainly,
if you wish?” his father answered. After
breakfast the investment was made. The
next day the enterprising youngster arose
at daylight, and before anybody was up and
could interfere, had blacked every boot and
shoe in the Sprague mansion, including a
pair of his mother’s, which had been bought
recently for nineteen dollars, and which, of
course, were utterly ruined.—“Washington
Letter.”


BOOKS to mankind are as the flowers to
the bee.


