R. S. REPORTS.
			    ——
	From Provo, we have received cheer ing
reports of the Relief Societies of the 3rd
and 4th Wards, by Secretaries Mrs. Mary
John and Mrs. L. W. Kimball. Notwith-
standing the present hard times, these
Societies have through the blessings of God,
and their own industry and prudence, man-
aged to present ,all the while, a fair and
liberal showing of .their financial circum-
stances, and the good they are doing in
their philanthropic efforts to aid and sus-
tain those in their midst, who feel the
stings of poverty or are in any way aflict-
ed. They also exhibit strong desires to
move forward in the march of progress, and
improve in all the ways of purity and wis-
dom.
			———
	From St. Charles, Oneida Co., Idaho, Sec-
retary Mrs. Isabella W. Davis writes: Our
Society was organized August 30th 1868
with the following named sisters as officers.
Annie Laker, President,
Christina Williamsen }Counselors
Mary Jacobs
I. W. Davis, Secretary,
Elizabeth Pugmire, Treasurer.
	Besides these officers, we have at present
a Teachers quorum consisting of seventeen
members, and an appraising committee of
three. We have had no trials or serious
difficulty in our Society. We have lost three
Teachers by death, likewise our eldest mem-
ber Sister Lydia Jennings. The sisters are
improving in speaking and acquiring more
confidence in themselves.
			———
	In a brief report of the Relief Society of
Willard City, Box Elder Co., Mary Hub-
bard gives an account of the death of Mrs.
Phebe Harding, who was appointed Treas-
urer of the Society at its first organization,
which office she faithfully sustained until 
her departure by death, on the 19th ult.
She was sixty-four years of ago, had lived
a life of honor and respectability, and her
loss is deeply felt by her remaining friends.


MRS. Mary Ollenhausen, of Lexington,
the widow of a German baron, but an Ameri-
can by birth, has been engaged as Superin-
tendent of the new Training School for
Nurses at the Massachusetts General Hos-
pital. She has served as nurse both in the
Union and German armies.


[Column 1]﻿
