			(CONCLUDED)
	No! even though it is an admitted fact
that a father can scarcely even understand
the height, the depth, the beauty and the
strength, the utter devotion of a mother’s
love, yet, the law, as a simple deduction
from the fact of his ownership of the
mother, gives the child to the father alone.
So, in case of separation, the father, unless
he can be proved a lunatic, a dangerous
drunkard or a felon, has the authority of
law to tear his child from its mother’s arms.
Indeed, though the two parents may have
lived as harmoniously as two doves in a nest,
the father, dying, may execute a will even
without his wife’s knowledge, giving his
child, even if unborn, to the care of a stran-
ger,and the mother has no redress. But let it
be remembered that her death and forty
wills could never disturb HIM in possession
of his child.
	This, friends, is the land of boasted equal
rights! This is the SOVEREIGNTY which
woman inherits. This is the “protection”
which the STRONG extend over the WEAK.
Allow me to say, without intending disre-
spect to any, that it reminds me of the
wolf's protection of the lamb, when he ate
it and thus placed it inside of himself out
of all danger.
	The husband absorbs the wife’s name,
person, property &c.,and then boasts of be-
ing woman’s protector. I admit that many
of them do so innocently, not knowing how
laws really stand, but it is time that they
were informed on the subject that they may
choose their course with their eyes open.
	Is not this a sorry showing for the most
liberal and enlightened government on the
earth? the nation foremost and unrivaled in
the scale of civilization?
	And there is yet another point in this
case worthy of attention.
	Could a woman consent so far to sacrifice
her conscience and her sense of honor, she
might enter into private contract with any
man, and so long as she did not bear his
name nor claim marriage, she might live with
him, rear children, possess her own prop-
erty, buy and sell, give legal deeds, make
a legal will, and more than all, possess her
own children.
	Now what has the wife to compensate her
for the loss of all these? A name; the ap-
proval of the public; things quite necessary
to happiness certainly; but are they not
dearly bought at the expense of all else
worth living for, including things more
precious than they?
	I would not for a moment be understood
to advocate any laxity in morals, for con-
science must be kept pure even if it be at
the expense of ALL else dear and precious;
but I would recommend it to the consider-
ation of those who could amend these things,
that since they make marriage a civil con-
tract, and since one civil contract is as good
as another if only as well adhered to, it
might be well to make the recognized and
honorable one a little less bitter in its
exactions.
	I do not wonder that men who are sat-
isfied with such laws should be shocked at
seeing a woman peep into a law-book or
evince any interest in political affairs. They
have good cause to dread that she might
learn the depth and extent of the degrada-
tion in which the law dooms her to live. I
remember the slave owners of the South
thought it necessry to the security of their
property that their slaves be kept in ignor-
[Column 2]
ance; and a remnant of their logic is warmed
over for use in woman’s case.
	“Keep woman to her needlework her
housework, her frills and her flounces, and if
possible, satisfy her with them, and we may
still blame her for extravagance and sneer
at her for incapacity, and she will endure it
all; but once educate her as highly as our-
selves and remove her legal disabilities, she
would become as self-conceited an dobstinate
as to think herself fully equal to us; and she
might even decline to marry on our terms.”
	Very likely, dear brothers, and all the
harm I wish you is that every maid in the
land were at this very hour in possession of
a first-class education, and were particularly
well posted on all points relating to the mat-
rimonial question. The former would place
within her reach some higher pursuit than
mere fashion-worship, and if the latter
brought every soul of them to the resolu-
tion never to marry until these laws were
so much remodeled as to make marriage
quite as advantageous to them as to you, so
much the better for you and for posterity
as well as for them.
	Some fear that giving man’s latitude to
woman would make her fractious, overbear-
ing and unwilling to be advised; but I differ.
I believe ninety-nine women out of a
hundred would consult their husbands
and accept advice in all just and reas-
onable things, for the sake of love
and respect, were such Inducements of-
fered them. And all experience teaches
that blind and forced obedience is a dry
skeleton compared with the strength and
beauty of obedience or rather agreement of
opinion and efforts obtained with the full
consent of conscience, judgment and affec-
tion.
	Set women on a true equality with your-
selves, and I venture to assert that the
frivolity and instability of which you com-
plain will speedily give place to thrift and
sagacity, foresight and sound judgment, in
addition to a happy contentment with her
lot in place of the burning sense of wrong
which an intelligent, well informed woman
must feel when seeing the honest and faith-
ful wife shorn of all those dear and proper
privileges for which the wife in all but name
cannot be deprived.
	Look at a large class of women in Utah
to-day. Your laws do not recognize them
as wives, and many have sadly mourned the
loss of their former friends’ respect. In
some cases it took all the strength of their
faith in their holy religion and their trust
in God to give them courage to endure the
scorn of the world, even though they knew
the tie that bound them in the sacred rela-
tion of wife, to be strong enough to endure
beyond the bounds of earth and time;though
they know the law which sanctioned their
nuptials to be authorized by God Himself
and as far above human law as the heavens
are above the earth.
	But your laws choose to disapprove that
heavenly law, and therefore these women
enjoy rights for which your own wives,
whom you admit to be pure and upright,
scarcely dare to hope. Even if you repeal
the rights of suffrage, they in Utah can
still buy and sell, hold and convey titles
and transact business of any kind; their
persons are their own and neither father nor
law can deprive them of their children.
	Since they honestly believe they are do-
ing right, since their consciences are pure
before the God they worship, and they have
within no gnawing conviction of guilt to
sap life at its fountain, what cause have they
to regret the loss of a name which is to them
but a name, while they hold in lieu of it
such extensive and proud privileges?
[Column 3]
	What sublime faith must law-makers
have in woman’s docility and meekness
when they expect her to live within the
bounds of laws by them manufactured, and
the code of morals by them laid down for
her, (and which differs so utterly from the
code they follow,) while they demand of her
all but life itself and the privilege of LOVING
and SERVING THEM, as the price of so doing!
	For shame! how can they ask a woman to
share their life on such terms? how dare
they advocate such accumulated injustice as
is all but sufficient to drive their daughters
to abjure marriage alltogether? I wonder
the fathers of this nation, in view of the
tremendous publicity and majority they
themselves are giving to the so-called Mor-
mons—I say I wonder they do not hasten to
give woman more of her natural rights even
if but through fear that their daughters
may be driven in very desperation to inves-
tigate the Mormon faith. And if once they
do that with pure motives, they will be al-
most certain to embrace it for itself; besides
choosing to become “seconds” for the sake of
enjoying at the same time the approval of
conscience and the unequaled joys of mother-
hood, without being robbed by law of per-
son, property, time and offspring.
	No doubt this would be to law-makers a
new, undreamed of and startling possibility;
but I would it could be squarely presented
to every influential citizen outside of Utah;
and that all might not be only startled by it,
but so thoroughly alarmed as to feel com-
pelled, if but for their own sakes, to give—
no! not GIVE but YIELD to woman what is
so justly her own—the right to stand as
man’s acknowledged equal. 		L. L. D.


