		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Observing Birthdays.—Why is not the happy
custom of observing birthdays more common?. Love
is rich in devices, and a full purse is not needed
on such occasions. Johnny will wear his new boots
the more proudly if he puts them on first the day
he is five years old. What sweeter music than Su-
san’s surprised laugh when she finds the breakfast-
room decorated with wreaths on her birthday morn-
ing? To me water-lilies will never cease to be
something more than lovely flowers; for once, upon
my birthday, years ago, I found them in my room,
the gift of a dear brother, who had obtained my fa-
vorites after a long walk and a hard row on the
pond. Ah! the fragrance of those lilies will never
perish. Will you miss regretfully the rich trimming
from your next new dress, if you deny yourself its
cost to buy a microscope, which will prove a source
of entertainment and instruction to the whole house-
hold? To keep out bad thoughts and. crush evil
tendencies, give food for good thoughts and happy
memories, and foster their growth.
	To Take Ink Stains out of Cloth—Tie a little
Cream of Tartar up in the cloth where the spot is.
Then pour on boiling water. Then untie it and put
it in the wash. It will come out clear.
	A medical writer in an English Journal says that
rheumatism and gout can be cured by the free use
of asparagus, the active principle of the plant hav-
ing the effect of neutralizing the lithic acid in the
system, which is the cause of all inflammatory
rheumatic ailments.
	To Prevent Clothes From Catching Fire.—Add
one ounce of alum to the last water used to rinse
children’s dresses, and they will be rendered so
nearly incombustible that they will not flame. Bed
curtains or other articles may be treated in the same
way. This simple precaution may save serious ac-
cidents.
	Airing Night Clothes.—It seems to me that the
only proper receptacle for a night garment of any
kind, after being worn, is a hook or nail where the
sun can shine upon it and the breezes can blow over
and under and through and through it, carrying
away whatever matter may have been absorbed
from the body during the night; that the old way of
rolling up a night-dress so tightly that it might be
used as a formidable weapon of offense or defense,
and tucking it under the pillow, or of folding it up
and putting it away in the dark, out of sight, is un-
clean and unhealthful, and should have long ago be-
come obsolete.—G. G. in the R. N. Yorker.
	Hints on House Cleaning,— All carpets do not
need to be taken up those which do not, can be
loosened at the edges, the dust brush pushed under
a piece, and a clean sweep of all the dust can be

[Column 2]
made. Wash the floor thus swept with strong
soapsuds, and spirits of turpentine after. Then
tack the carpet down. The odor is soon gone, if
you open your windows, and you can feel safe for
the summer, at least. Upholstered furniture can be
treated to the same bath, if applied with a soft,
clean cloth, and the colors will receive no injury.
But before using it, brush the cushions with a stiff
hand brush and a damp cloth, so as to take away
all the dust.
	Economical use of Nutmegs.—If a person begins
to grate a nutmeg at the stalk end, it will prove
hollow throughout; whereas the same nutmeg gra-
ted at the other end, would have proved sound and
solid to the last. This circumstance may thus be
accounted for: The center of a nutmeg consists of
a number of fibers issuing from the stalks and its
continuation through the center of the fruit, the
other ends of which fibers, though closely surround-
ed and pressed by the fruit, do not adhere to it.
When the stalk is grated away, these fibers, having
lost their hold, gradually drop out in succession, and
the hollow continues through the whole nut. By
beginning at the contrary end, the fibers above men-
tioned are grated off at their core end, with the sur-
rounding fruit, and do not drop out.
	Open Your Windows.—A house that is never
aired has every nook and corner filled with stale
odors of cooked meats, boiled vegetables, especially
cabbage and onions, which, as the weeks go by,
literally reek in their hiding-places. Who has not
wished sometimes to hang a new servant’s clothing
out of doors some frosty night until it should be
thoroughly aired? But I have seen the fine ladies
come sweeping into church with their velvets and
silks, when said velvets and silks gave unmistakable
evidence of having been housed in just such shut-
up chambers. There is death in such unaired
chambers. Better a swarm of flics or a cloud of
dust; better frost and snow in a room, than these
intolerable smells. Dear girls, the first thing in the
morning, when you arc ready to go down ‘ stairs,
throw open your windows, take apart the clothing
of your beds, and let the air blow through it as
hard as it will. There is health in such a policy.
It helps to keep away the doctors with long bills.
It helps to make your eyes sparkle, and to make
your cheeks glow, and to make others love your
presence.—Country Gentleman.
	Cloth made Water-proof.—A writer in an English
paper says:—Good Scottish tweed can be made en-
tirely impervious to rain, and, moreover, I have
learned how to make it so; and, for the benefit of
your readers I will give the recipe:
	In a bucket of soft water put half a pound of
sugar of lead, and half a pound of powdered alum;
stir this at intervals, until it becomes clear; pour it
off into another bucket, and put the garment there-
in, and let it be in for twenty-four hours, and then
hang it up to dry, without wringing it. Two of
my party—a lady and gentleman—have worn gar-
ments thus treated in the wildest storms of wind
and rain, without getting wet. The rain hangs up-
on the cloth in globules. In short, they were really
waterproof. The gentleman, a fortnight ago, walk-
ed nine miles in a storm of rain and wind, such as
you rarely see in the South; and, when he slipped
off his overcoat, his underwear was as dry as when
he put them on. This is, I think, a secret worth
knowing; for cloth, if it can be made to keep out
wet, is, in every way, better than what we know as
most water-proofs.


TEA.—the use of tea is steadily increas-
ing year by year, in Great Britain. In 1873
the amount consumed had reached one hun-
dred and thirty-two million pounds.
	IN New England only seven per cent. of all
the inhabitants above the age of ten are
unable to read or write; yet out of that
small minority of illiterate persons comes
eighty per cent. of the criminals.—"Am.
Jour. of Education."


