FLOWERS.

	HAPPINESS is always a home-made arti-
cle.
	HAPPY remarks are often made by very
unhappy men.
	HE is never alone that is in the company
of noble thoughts.
	IDLENESS is hard work for those who are
not used to it, and dull work for those who
are.
	THE cultivation of pleasant associations
is, next to health, the great secret of enjoy-
ment.
	A MAN too busy to take care of his health
is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his
tools.
	PURE affection must be combined with
good sense to produce the greatest amount
of true happiness.
	CITY life forces growth, and makes men
talkative and entertaining, but it also tends
to make them artificial.
	GOOD is slow; it climbs. Evil is swift, it
descends. Why should we marvel that it
makes great progress in a short time?
	HE gives twice who gives quickly, accord-
ing to the proverb; but a gift not only given
quickly, but unexpectedly is the most wel-
come of all.
	FUN is the most conservative element of
society, and ought to be cherished and en-
couraged by all lawful means. People never
plot mischief when they are merry.
	THE sinner may offend much against oth-
ers, but he always sins most against himself,
every iniquity falling with morally-debasing
and destructive force upon his own soul.
	WHEN will people learn that education is
a composite process, not confined to books
and teachers, but made up of the varied in-
fluences of home, fortune, and early asso-
ciation?
	IN a smiling region the man of money sees
only the relations of hay, grain, and wood;
his admiration, radiant with calculation, re-
duces nature to figures, and adds up the
scenery.
	LAUGHTER is an enemy to malice, a foe to
scandal, and a friend to every virtue. It
promotes good temper, enlivens the heart,
and brightens the intellect. Let us laugh
when we can.
	TRUE generosity rises above the ordi-
nary rules of social conduct, and flows
with too full a stream to be comprehended
within the precise marks of formal precepts.
It sanctifies every passion, and adds grace
to every acquisition of the soul.
	LET everything around you as far as you
can with honesty, wear an air of prosperity,
and you will, with God's blessing on your
honest endeavors, be sure to prosper. To
secure this end, you need not be extrava-
gant, nor make such a show as will not allow
of anything being put by in the savings
bank against a "rainy day."


AN Illinois farmer, determines the age of
a horse as follows: After the horse is nine
years old a wrinkle comes on the upper
corner of the lower eye lid, and every year
thereafter he has one well defined wrinkle
for every year over nine. If for instance a
horse has three wrinkles, he is twelve years
old.


