BE READY

	Never, perhaps, has there been recorded in
the annals of history, a period when sudden
death, without violence, visited so  frequently,
unexpectedly the inhabitants of this earth,
as in this, our day. The young, the middle-
aged and the aged are alike stricken down, often
with scarce a moment's warning; the learned
and the ignorant, the great and popular among
men and those whose lives are obscure and un-
known, are all alike liable to share the same
fate.
	Should not a moments contemplation of these
facts as they are daily spread forth in bold re-
lief, be a sufficient admonition to every one,
that the present action may be the last on earth?
And with this view, should not the humblest
who have a desire to accomplish some good in
this life, "be doing" to-day, instead of dream-
ing away the present hours in deliberation of
what they intend to set about to-morrow, or at
some future time? And should not those things
which are likely to be of most importance in
the great future, be first considered, rather than
put aside for things of less moment?
	"If I could live but five years longer—if I
could even live for one year more, I could ac-
complish much that I must now leave undone,"
said a good man recently, upon his death bed.
He wanted to call his family together and bless
them, and there were other things he regretted
leaving unfinished. But it was too late.
	Just now word comes to us that Mr. Robert
L. Campbell of this city, well known as the
Superintendent of common Schools for the Ter-
ritory, and holding other public offices, passed
away from the busy scenes of this life, at four
o'clock this morning, April 11th.
	While we feel to condole with his family in
this, their hour of sad bereavement, we wish
also to state that the EXPONENT looses in Bro-
ther Campbell, a personal and valued friend.
Since its first appearance upon the broad stage
of action, he has ever been one to give encour-
agement, and evince a kindly interest in its be-
half.
	To the young daughters of the diseased, who
have lately accepted positions of public trust,
we wish to offer a few words of sisterly sympa-
thy. We would say to them, be not disheart-
ened although deprived of so able and worthy
a friend, a father so judicious and faithful. He
has left you great legacies in the education he
has given you, and the bright example of his
well spent life. Seek diligently to honor your
inheritances.
	Returning again to the subject upon which
this article was designed to be written, we will
briefly add.—Let those who feel secure to-day
leaning upon supports, be also prepared for
what may come in an hour of which they think
not— for they are, each one, liable at any mo-
ment to be left standing alone. And those who
have a work to do, be admonished not to defer
it till a more convenient season, least they be
also "too late."


