	ENERGY AND FIRMNESS. 

	Energy and Firmness are traits of char-
acter that may almost be considered the
motive power of our existence. They con-
stitute the leading principle of success; with-
out them all good resolutions and beautiful
imaginary problems fall to the ground, un-
executed, and lost. Energy aids action, and
action is life, inaction is death. Energy is,
as it were, the germ that produces, or
brings forth its concomitant traits, such as
order and cleanliness; and without Firmness
where is execution? We may not question,
who has, or has not, these desirable traits of
character. Our eyes are given us to see
with; and people’s actions are as a looking
glass to their character; and if our neigh-
bors do not want us to read a chapter from
their book, the title page of which is
stamped with “fickleness and instability,”
let them measure strength with Energy and
Firmness, and spring forth to light and life, 
How natural it is for one to remark when
occasion is given, “How untidy that per-
son’s working department is!” or “How or-
derly, and cleanly, their entire surround-
ings are!” Every action depicts some one
or more traits of character. The langauge,
the voice, the gesture, the walk, &c.
	View the figure that forward propels
itself with lengthened strides, eager to get
over the measured ground—you can read
energy in the very foot-marks; such esti-
mate that time was not made to hang on
rusty hinges; they do not allow the mind to
wander on a thousand trivial things. One


having an object to accomplish, fixed and
firm in purpose, has no time to reconnoiter
through all space, and view with elaborate
exactness, and give a general detail of the
neighborhood gossip. The one who feasts
on gossip to-day, may have to fast to-mor-
row.
	Order and cleanliness are not the results of
noon-day rising from nightly slumbers.
Mortals may substitute, but it is not in their
power to render an equivalent for the bril-
liancy of the morning sun, its beauties and
freshness. Then why should we let slug-
gishness, and inactivity rob Energy and
Firmness of their power?
	The selfish one says, “I intend to take it
easy.” I would ask, at whose expense?
Surely, labor must be done; the helpless
must be provided for; even those who will
not work must eat, and somebody must
“foot the bill.”
	While Ease is dying, has not power to
draw his breath, Energy and Firmness can
dig his grave. But the drone is not needed
in the hive; and by-and-by, “The idler
shall not eat the bread of the laborer."
