[Vol56 | March 1969 | Page 184 | Special Feature | Genealogy and the New GIANT System | Genealogical Society]
h cooperative efforts of Red Cross and the Relief Society—emergency action on behalf of a serviceman in Viet Nam—disaster aid to flood victims along the Mississippi—rescue of a drowning child and the administration of First Aid—blood supply in hospitals across the land— services to patients in hospitals by kindly volunteers—or food for the starving children in far away Biafra—every single effort is guided toward giving the ill more opportunity to regain health, the homeless a place of abode, and the discouraged hope for the future. The Red Cross, as much as any organization on the American scene, has erased from the public mind the image of volunteers as serene dispensers of charity. Serene they may be, but they are workers. They do big jobs and small ones; they handle unpleasant tasks as well as pleasant ones. They bring skill and efficiency to their efforts along with understanding and compassion. They come in all ages, sizes, and colors, bound together by one primary motivation—the desire to serve their neighbors. In a recent statement, Mr. E. Roland Harriman, National Chairman, said, "The Red Cross is unquestionably the largest volunteer organization in the country, and in the volunteer spirit lies the Nation's g

[Genealogy and the New GIANT System Genealogical Society]

reatest strength." 184 "A Gift of Love" Addie Belknap Pierson @ Helen. The first time I saw Helen was the day we moved into our first "real'' home. She came over to borrow the proverbial cup of sugar, welcome us, and help. And help she did. We were very new to the area; it was Jeff's first job after college. Between commencement day at his school and the commencement of his working days, we had had three days. All used in traveling. So there I sat amid boxes, barrels, and dirt that first morning. I was going over my agenda for the day—I was a modern organized house engineer—and had listed: 1. Make bed (the only thing we had unpacked the night before). 2. Clear away breakfast things (sweet roll wrappings and milk carton). 3. Get dressed. 4. Start unpacking. I should have put No. 4 before No. 3, as all the clothes I had out were one traveling suit and one nightgown. As I was musing over the problem, there was a loud knock, a cheery hello, and, suddenly, a Say, could I borrow some sugar?" tall angular woman, cup in hand, smile on face, was sprawled out across my very own _ kitchen floor. Wondering how the smile had stayed on, and making a mental note to find a more convenient place to keep Jeffs books on mathematical data and abstract math than in the doorway, I offered my hand to help the poor lady up. She seemed to come up at all angles, brushing herself off, but with no need for assistance. "My name is Helen—Mom should have called me Grace— Helen Jorgenson. I live in the duplex, closest side to you folks. Say, could I borrow some sugar? Don't have it all out yet? Well, why don't I just help you unpack it and a few of your other necessaries? Howard, that's my husband, and I were glad to hear someone had rented this place. With just a bit of elbow grease and water, it will be looking really pretty again. My goodness, no wonder I tripped—never was much good at arithmetic. I suppose abstract algebra has to do with arithmetic?" The sudden silence in this running dialogue stunned me so that I could not answer, only 

185 March 1969

 watch as Helen stacked one box of books on the other, picked both up and walked into the hallway. It was just as well. Evidently the silence was actually a fade-out, since I soon heard, 'Where do you keep your soap and water?" echoing back to me from the living room. That's how Helen and I met. We were sort of a Mutt and Jeff team, she being about 5'10" to my 5'2". We had a difference in ages, she was thirty and I was only twenty-two. Both our husbands were away a lot, Jeff was getting started in his chosen profession (work Helen always called it). Actually I never met Howard, her husband, for over a year. "My man is a sailorman," she told me later. "A good man but madly in love with the sea and anything that sails. We met during the war, you: know. I worked in a factory near the harbor and I used to watch the ships dock. One day a bosun's mate came up. He stood in my pathway, and along comes Howard, my husband you know, just a seaman he was then, and he told the bosun to find another girl because I was taken. And I guess I have been ever since. Howard, that's my _ husband, hopes to be a Chief someday. Say, aren't you putting those ribbon ties on the wrong side?" This conversation took place over Edward Jefferson Harper the Second's wardrobe making. "That Eddie now, he's a regular little corker," was Helen's exclamation of approval over our own beautiful Edward Jefferson Harper the Second. When Eddie was three months old, Howard 186 (Helen's husband) came home on leave. Jeff and I were very curious to meet Howard Jorgenson. We had visions of a large, blond Swedish-type sailor, with large tattoos on either arm. Even a prize fighter type. 'Howard, my husband, writes he has won the title in his weight class," she had told us once. When Helen brought -him over to see "that little corker Eddie," we were both stunned speechless, as so often seems the case when we are with Helen. She is not shocking, just surprising. Anyway, there stood Howard, her husband, all 5'4" of him, and it was a good thing he was standing frontwise or we would have missed him. His boxing class was bantam weight, and he was just like a banty rooster. But how this little, quiet sailor could seem to make our large Helen feel so protected and feminine, I didn't know— then. About six months later, with Howard back to sea, Helen was over watching me bathe Eddie one morning. As she sat down in the kitchen, she pulled out some beautiful pink yarn and began to knit. For such an ungainly, clumsy girl, Helen did beautiful sewing and handiwork. At last, I thought, Helen and Howard are going to be blessed with a "Now this next baby of yours," cut in Helen on my blissful thoughts for her, "will need warmer nighties and more sweaters than that big Eddie, there, needed. Winter babies are different from summer ones you know." Speechless again, I just stared. "Oh, I know all about babies except getting one, I guess," she went on. "I was the oldest in a family of nine. What are you going to name this next one? Tammy? Debbie? Vickie? —Those are all popular now." "Wait, just wait a minute!" I had to get a word in this time. "Helen, how do you know this one, whom I haven't even announced, is going to be a girl?" "Well, you need a girl. It's right and proper that you have one. This big Eddie takes after his Daddy, now you need a sweet pink and gold little baby girl to take after her mom. Your life is run right. You have everything as in a book. You had good rearing, went to college for an education, married your fellow. He is educated and has a good paying job, or profession as you call it. You have a lovely home that I've seen you fix up with bits and scraps, and yet it looks like a million dollars and you always look so— so fashionable yourself. You're a popular couple. You have everything to offer a pink and gold baby girl. "Now me, I should have had a half dozen boys, rowdy, tumbling, freckle-faced, and laughing boys—but a girl, well you know that would be ridiculous...." "Why?" I again edged in a word. "Why! That's as plain as your turned-up nose. I'm only Helen. Pioneer stock, born out of my time. I am built for hard work, and hard work I do. No man ever opens doors for me, carries my packages, or helps me change flat tires or anything. Oh, sure, Howard does when he's home, but poor Howard, a woman is a "A Gift of Love' lady no matter what she looks like to him. He doesn't see me plain as other folks do." "No! He sees you with 20/20 love and that's what's important. His vision of you." This final outburst of mune startled all three of us, and Eddie began to cry. "Shame on you," was Helen's last word. =] y the time that beautiful pink sweater was used and all the other pink, warm nighties, socks, and bootees, Jeff and I had four beautiful, handsome, perfect, little gentlemen of whom any parents would be proud. Edward Jefferson was so proud to be the leader of my little men. Michael Allen was a good boy, quiet and helpful. "Now that Mickey, he's the clever one. He will be a good businessman someday," Helen prophesied. James Joseph was going to be tall and, probably, a good ball player. "Oh, dear, did our Jimmy-Joe break another window?" she would sweetly remark. And our baby David John was sweet and gurgly. "Now, Davy Jones, my lad, when this boy catches up with his brothers, you folks are really going to have a whole houseful of rowdy, tumbling, laughing boys." "Oh, Helen! You are irrepressible and irreplaceable. But this house is already full.'"' Now that I had the floor, I began talking in high gear. "Overflowing full! I'm afraid our little dreamhouse doesn't fit our large real life. Jeff and I have decided to look for a larger place, farther out. 

187 March 1969

 Oh, Helen, I'm so excited. Jeff even says if we can't find what we want, we'll build. I have so many plans. I couldn't tell you before, but Jeff is getting another promotion, and now so many new things are happening that Jeff and I " My voice ran down rather like an old gramophone. Helen' was speechless this time and white as a sheet. "Helen, what's the matter? Oh! Say now, we'll still see one another. Maybe not as often as we would like, we'll always be friends—but Helen, what is it?" "Oh, please—don't move yet for awhile, you're my only friend, my only family, really, since mine's all back East, and I'm, oh, well, I'm pregnant—that's what I am—at forty!" "Helen, you are not in old age! Now hush, don't cry, this isn't like you. Aren't you happy? Why I think its wonderful." "Happy! Certainly I'm happy, but I'm so scared. Howard will be on his last cruise before he retires. That sea is going to rob me of my one other strength when my time comes. You are my only hope. I'll be all alone with this baby—and—and I won't know what to do. I'll drop it." And again the wailing and tears started. "Helen! Helen, here now! You know I wouldn't leave you alone. Our moving will just have to wait. After all, ''ve got to have my best mover on her feet." Then all 5'2" of me marched over to Howard and Helen's place to beard Howard in his den or forecastle or wherever sailors use for a hide-out on ship. Of 188 course, when the sweet, helpful Howard answered my loud knock, I tried to muster all my organized self but all I squeaked out was, "Can't you stay home one cruise?" Since he just smiled at me as if humoring me, I finally burst out with, "How can you leave us at a time like this!" And I scurried back home. Something about Howard always unnerved me. I guess listening to Helen brag about her husband the many months while he was away made me shocked when I saw him. When Helen began knitting and sewing baby clothes (all blue) our routine settled down. Howard got his last long voyage changed to several short cruises to be able to help, as I had suggested. One night "Aunt" Helen told our boys that soon she would have a playmate for them, and, because her son would have no older brothers, they would have to help him learn to climb trees, play ball, tumble, and wrestle. Katrina Helene was born the next day. Katrina was for her Grandmother Jorgenson and Helene, well, Howard insisted on Helen, and Helen senior glamorized it a little. But this baby girl was no pink and gold baby. She was like Dresden china with beautiful silky black hair. And Helen! Why Helen became beautiful! People say that a bride is always beautiful on her wedding day. Well, a mother holding her newborn for the first time is even more beautiful. She had been all angles; now she was soft and lovely to behold. This clumsy, awkward woman had let her soul shine through. The baby was exquisite. She had Howard's small bones and features, but on her they were fine and delicate; she had her mother's dark hair and blue eyes. As a small baby she was happy and easily amused. She was never Kay or Kate— always Katrina. Even my rough boys were quiet and tried not to stumble so much around her. "The time soon came for us to move. Howard and Helen, of course, were on hand to help. Naturally, Helen did most of the directing; none of us would let her do much actual work. Later, on one of their visits to our new dream home, I noticed Howard, Jeff, and all of our boys were doing special things for Helen. Noticing her dress, her hair, getting things for her or Katrina. When they had all gone down to the basement to put together the model ships Howard had brought the boys, Helen said, "So this is how you do it. Just be helpless and they'll help. I haven't told Howard yet, but I think he knows already. Katrina is such a blessing, but she will have to be everything. The Doctor says no more children. I really can't complain. We are so lucky to have her." "Helen, oh my dear Helen, for whatever we're worth you have us. All six of us Harpers, lock, stock and barrel." "That's right. I have. And I have had for ten years. Why, you've let me and Howard be in your family ever since we met. You even postponed your moving to this beautiful home. You've given me so much, I hope I can help you someday." "A Gift of Love' "This last ten years hasn't been just a one-way street. Helen, you've given to me, too. Who kept my feet on the ground when I tried to get too high-faluting? Who helped sew all my children's clothes? Who calmed me down when Jimmy-Joe broke his collar bone and when Eddie had hiccups for two days and Davey Jones swallowed fifty-eight cents in assorted coins? Our friendship and love have been give and take all the way, and I think even I could argue with you about who got the most. You sound so solemn, as if it is a farewell address. What's going on? What are you and Howard up to?" I demanded. "Well, uh Howard got this offer to teach in uh a private nautical school for boys and." "Oh, no! This is too much" I laughed. "Your husband is going into a profession not a job. Oh, dear! Ha! Ha! Ha! Somewhere close around here on the West Coast, of course." "Well its on the coast but it iss,.. Wellr: e." "Mama, Mama, Auntie Helen and Uncle Howard are moving to a boat in the East. Can I go, too?" "Me, too." "Me, too." "Can we, Mom?" "Boys, of course not. You're so noisy and loud she wouldn't know what to do with you. We can visit."" My heart sank. "Lots and lots?" asked Davey Jones. "Lots' and lots, I hope," my voice echoed.

I looked at my friend, and (Continued on page 220) 189 Homemaking.~ I Beauty, Utility, Charm Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1968 Myrtle R. Olson, Member, General Board of Relief Society Garden Scene (Winder Stake, Louise Free, President) As each individual entered the foyer of the Parley's Stake Center, the serenity and beauty of a garden was felt. Lovely blooming chrysanthemums, evergreens, and pyracantha bushes greeted the eye. A beautiful fountain further enhanced the atmosphere. Indeed, this gave a feeling to each sister, as Sister Celestia J. Taylor, the author of our homemaking discussions states: 'Gardens bring beauty and repose from the burdens of the day; they provide nourishment for the soul as well as for the body; they are a source of hospitality to our families and our friends." This setting created an atmosphere that would no doubt give to each sister the desire and enthusiasm to have a lovely garden of her own. Beauty, Utility, Charm (Display Arranged by Anne R. Gledhill of the General Board of Relief Society) From the foyer one went to the entry of the cultural hall where the theme was effectively depicted: 'Homemaking Fair—Beauty, Utility, Charm." In the alcove was a cornucopia filled with many of the items which make up a fair. There were knitted articles, hand embroidery, a small quilt, an apron, a loaf of bread, canned fruit, vegetables, and other such objects. On a wall in the alcove hung a picture of our beloved prophet, President McKay, and Sister McKay depicting "Charm." A lovely bouquet of flowers brought out "Beauty." "Utility" was characterized by a dress made by one of the sisters. The lovely sign done in blue and gold, "Homemaking Fair—Beauty, Utility, Charm" also hung in the entry. Bridal Display (Bountiful South Stake, Eulalia Butters, former President; Displays by Coy Tyson) The cultural hall was a scene of beauty as the various displays the sisters had so painstakingly prepared came into view. Many stakes and wards participated. The bridal display was "a thing of beauty" to behold. Over five hundred white velour roses had been made by the sisters of the stake and fashioned into topiary trees to form a lovely setting for the live bride and bridesmaids. This would seem like a task most difficult to accomplish, but with ten wards in the stake, each ward was assigned to make fifty roses and this was done with enthusiasm and willingness. Each ward and each person was happy to be a part of such a 190 Homemaking Fair worthwhile project. The trees were lighted with tiny white lights to make them even more beautiful and effective. Every two hours a different lovely young bride and one or two bridesmaids appeared to complete the setting. The dresses which the brides and bridesmaids wore were made by the mothers of the bride, or someone else who loved to fashion a beautiful creation. These dresses showed that something just as lovely, if not more lovely, could be hand sewed rather than purchased. Many handmade trousseau items were displayed in beautiful old trunks that had been restored and antiqued and then lined with velvet. In the background was a wedding cake made by one of the sisters of the stake.

he slipped, and was gone. He had taught the boys well; they all made it in safely. We flew back for the services. Jeff helped wind up Howard's and Helen's affairs. I helped her pack. We all knew she and Katrina were coming home again. They were part of us. Katrina was a lost child. Davey Jones seemed to know just what to do and say to her, maybe because he was quiet and gentle like her father. I found I truly missed that quiet-in-the-background man. He had been so much more than I realized until he was gone. Helen was silent. Not quiet. Not cold. She talked, but she was silent. Like a lovely warm home, closed for a season. On our last evening there I went to the basement for paper to wrap the dishes in, and I found Helen and our Davey Jones going through Howard's foot locker. "Aunt Helen, I wish I were really Davey Jones. I'd give you back your Howard." Close to tears Davey tried to fold Howard's Navy dress whites. "David John, oh, no, son, son, Davey Jones doesn't have my Howard. No, not as good a man as he. Why my Howard is in his glory. He has truly gone home Davey, to his Father in heaven. He's at peace and is happier than our fondest dreams. I grieve because I cannot see him for a time, and because Katrina must be reared without him, but someday Davey, if we are worthy, we can and will see him again, and all be together with Heavenly Father." Helen seemed almost her old self by the time we arrived home. Katrina was excited by flying, tired, and still a little confused. By the end of the week she seemed in much better spirits. In fact, both Helen and her daughter seemed excited on Friday evening when we all met in the family room as Helen had asked. We presumed it was to settle money arrangements and our living together as one family. Jeff was just starting to say something about all this to-do hardly being necessary, when Helen started to speak, not at the usual full-speed-ahead pace, but calmly, quietly. "A Gift of Love' She and Howard had missed our family when they moved and had learned to appreciate the friendship we had all shared, but, especially, that shared by Helen and me. They kept trying to think of a gift suitable to show this appreciation. "But we couldn't," she said, "because we didn't have the gift ourselves yet, so of course we couldn't give it." Just then the doorbell rang. "Tl get it," Helen called back over her shoulder, as she hurried out of the room. As I looked at my family I knew we were all trying to think of the gift one had to have oneself before one could give it to another. Katrina squirmed and tapped her foot, drummed her fingers, and smiled. "Here we are,' came Helen's voice as two clean-looking young men came in the room, then Helen herself. She introduced us first, then said, "These young men are called Mormon elders. Missionaries of our Heavenly Father, like these two, gave Howard, Katrina and me the gift of the true gospel, a beautiful gift that we would like you to have also." She looked at me, "Once you said I kept your feet on the ground, now I want you to reach for heaven itself. Please listen to them." As the elders began to speak, my husband, our boys, and I looked at each other. Then I looked at Helen, my friend, and saw and heard again the scene back East in her basement. My heart seemed ready to open to the words to be given to us by the gift of love. 221 Julia Archibald Godfrey, Mount Ogden Stake, Utah, has made many friends and relatives happy with the gift of a lovely quilt. She has spent many hours teaching the art of quilting to others and has donated countless quilts to Relief Society. In addition to her quilting, Sister Godfrey does beautiful embroidery work. She has made many pairs of pillowcases and doilies, and makes lovely temple aprons. This dear sister is the mother of eight children. There are thirty-four grandchildren and ninety-three great-grandchildren. Sister Godfrey is currently serving her sixty-fifth year as a visiting teacher, and has served as a counselor in Relief Society and in leadership positions in the other auxiliaries. ——.. 3 s:: % be 4. Eae —. ———_ Ethel Sewell West, Mount Ogden Stake, Utah, is an accomplished artist with a needle. She learned to quilt, embroider, crochet, and other crafts while very young. Many beautiful handmade articles grace her home and the homes of family and friends. She is very skillful at making elegant aprons and other articles of clothing. Sister West is the mother of four children. She has seventeen grandchildren, thirty-six great-grandchildren, and two great-great-grandchildren. This sister has served as a counselor in Relief Society, as Magazine representative, homemaking leader, and has been a visiting teacher for forty-five years. 222 pst aed.* 7 vo 4 sae , Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Synopsis: Jennifer Miles, a young girl of twenty-four, has been visiting friends in Houston. She has left behind Steve Rey, a young man to whom she is attracted. In Houston she meets handsome Jim Long