[Vol56 | March 1969 | Page 190 | General Feature | Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out | ]
[Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out]

A beautiful bouquet of cloth flowers made from dainty lace enhanced the punch table. Everything in this display made each one realize the beauty and charm of articles made by the sisters. Christmas Beads (Parleys Stake, Mary Riley, President, Display by Valora Anderson) The Christmas beads which everyone so enjoys wearing at Christmas were attractively displayed on the tree which we see pictured. These are easily and quickly made. Materials needed: Gold or silver metallic thread, Christmas beads, crochet hook no. F, half-inch velvet ribbon, and a snap fastener. Thread enough beads on the metallic thread to complete one strand of beads and then proceed as follows: Chain 20 stitches, crochet a bead onto the thread, chain three stitches, and add another bead. Continue doing this until you have the desired length, approximately 26 inches, then crochet 20 stitches without any beads. Make as many strands as you desire, depending on how heavy you wish the beads to be (3, 6, or 9 strands). Then braid these strands together. Braiding takes up some length. Different size beads make the necklace more interesting. Finish with a small velvet bow sewed on one end and a small piece of velvet on the other end. Sew a snap fastener on the velvet ribbon to make the clasp. A purchased clasp could also be used. Knitting (Holladay South Stake, Maurine B. Folsom, President, Display by Jane Reynolds) The old-fashioned spinning wheel used by our grandparents made a most appropriate setting for this charming knitting display. How practical yet elegant are the hand-knitted items shown: coats, dresses, sweaters, afghans, house slippers. There were knitted items for all ages, as well as for both men and women. '"Sweet'' Village (Parleys Stake, Mary Riley, President; Castle made by Florence Halliday) The Sugar Castle enchanted all who viewed it. This was made with a cardboard box as the base. The spires were made from cardboard cylinders and topped with ice cream cones. The inside of the box was lined with colored paper and the outside frosted. The frosting was stippled. Candy decorations were also used to make this more attractive. To make the frosting use: 2 egg whites, 1 lb. Powdered sugar, '/, to 1 tsp. Cream of tartar. Mix these ingredients together and beat well. If the mixture is too stiff, add a small amount of water. By using ingenuity a beautiful castle may be created by anyone. Men's and Boys' Apparel (Valley View Stake, Madeleine Bacon, President) Not very often do we see a display made up entirely of men's and boys' apparel. The autumn leaves enhanced this display. Men's and boys' sweaters were, of course, featured, but there were also attractive suits for boys, and even a suit made for a man which was expertly tailored. A suede vest had been made which anyone would be proud to wear. This proves that if the need arises the sisters would be able to do sewing for men and boys, as well as for girls and women. 

191 March 1969

 Southwest Indian Mission, and Tongan Displays (Jeanette D. Tingey, Supervisor, Southwest Indian Mission, Display by Bess Ericksen; Supervisor Tongan Mission Relief Society, Jean S. Groberg) How proud we are of our Lamanite and Tongan sisters and the beautiful items which they displayed for us. In the Lamanite display were beautiful quilts, rugs, turquoise jewelry, hand-woven baskets and attractive pottery items. The Tongan sisters displayed place mats, woven slippers, purses made from shells, baskets, a toy elephant woven from straw. There were also items carved from wood. Modern Quilt (Roy Stake, Kathleen J. Dunbar, President) There was displayed a quilt with a modern, unusual design. How it would please a young person with its lovely colors and the attractive appliqued design of butterflies and flowers. ''Vegetable People'' (Craig Stake, Gwen N. Seeley, President) As the vegetable display was viewed, one was made to realize that something attractive can be made from almost nothing. Faces and hair and also hats were put on various shapes of potatoes and squash to make them attractive. One had to look very closely to realize they were vegetables. The top of the display was composed of such items as radish roses, carrot curls, celery strips, and green peppers cut in various shapes. Beaded Jars (Holladay South Stake, Maurine B. Folsom, President; Jars made by Helen Peters) The apothecary jars and snifter pictured were made very elegant with a covering of metallic thread and pearls. To cover the snifter requires the following materials: approximately 100 pearl beads snifter (approximately 31, inches high, 1 spool metallic elastic yarn diameter base 31/, inches, diameter top, No. 3 steel crochet hook 2 inches.) Instructions: String beads onto elastic yarn, Ch. 12 and join. Ist row 12 S. C. 2d row Ch. 2-S. C.-Ch. 3 until there are 12 spaces 3d row Ch. 3-S. C. In 2d Ch. Complete row (12 spaces) 4th row repeat row 3, 2 times more 7th row Ch. 5, slide bead down. S. C. In 3d Ch. Complete row 9th row repeat 8th row 4 times more 13th row S. C. In each Ch, complete row 14th row repeat 13th row 6 times more 21st row slip st. Around and end Stretch and pull over glass. Social Table (Bountiful Stake, Nora A. Stahle, President; Arlene Egan, Bountiful Eighteenth Ward) The social table would be most attractive for any Relief Society function. The sunflower in the center of the bouquet adds a gay note to the table. Individual loaves of bread on cutting boards are at each place. Red and white checked napkins also add charm to this setting.

(Continued on page 210) Transparencies by J M. Heslop I 192 es ts a a — ', —" BE Nn reese sk at rr pan gt A nig 8) w jc] RQ, ty and Re Gardens Bring Beau re D> o < lS) 8 ) ) S = x ° S ' o © 8 ~ < S © ie) 3 iS -& S Ss) * ee Us) a I — die i): " 4 i Pals?, dis Genii: ne / [pitins ey MENS EY Bridal Display - A Thing of Beauty —: " 'a Knitting Display - Practical and Elegant A "Sweet" Village - Spired and Gleaming Clothing for Men and Boys Southwest Indian Mission Handicraft March 1969 Apothecary Jars in Pearled Design ie Beinne Eighe, Scotland