[Vol56 | March 1969 | Page 229 | General Feature | Magazines | ]
Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities ''What's Cooking in Relief Society?"' September 26, 1968 Left to right: Syivia Sharp, homemaking discussion leader, Spencer Third Ward Relief Society; Leona Canfield, spiritual living class leader; Marjorie Pearson, Secretary-Treasurer; Connie Johns, First Counselor; Faye Thomas, President; Rulah Bryce, Second Counselor; Joyce Carsey, homemaking leader; Karen Reese, cultural refinement Class leader; Barbara Jeppson, social relations class leader. Evalyn Olsen, President, Oquirrh East Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Spencer Third Ward presented a social with the theme, 'What's Cooking in Relief Society?' An original skit written by Connie Johns was presented. It featured a gaily covered table with a large kettle and spoon. Various spices and cooking ingredients were on the table. Each member of the presidency and the class leaders wore white chef's hats. During the course of the program, each leader gave a preview of her course and added to the cooking pot her special ingredients or objectives. "It was a well-planned and successful event. There were fifty-eight present at the social. The ward has an enrollment of forty-six."' 

229 March 1969

 Gridley Stake (California), Chico Ward Holds ''Toyland'' Bazaar, June 26, 1968 Chico Ward Relief Society officers, left to right: Sharon Sheldon, homemaking leader; Leona Turley, Education Counselor; Johanna Millet, President; Joyce Atkin, Homemaking Counselor. Marietta White, President, Gridley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Chico Ward held a most successful bazaar, with the theme, 'Toyland.' The main features of the bazaar were Raggedy Ann and Andy dolls and stuffed toys, made by the sisters. "It was a pleasant coincidence for President Millet to discover that she and both her counselors share the same birthdate, November 7. They have enjoyed the sisterhood they share through working in Relief Society, and this ward has progressed well under their leadership." Danish Mission, Jylland District Fall Social September 1968 Marva S. Christensen, Supervisor, Danish Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The Relief Society sisters in Jylland District planned a gala event for a fall social. It was under the direction of Sisters Meta Dybvang; Sonja Lind Jensen; Karna Petersen; and Ruth Petersen. "All the sisters in the district gathered in Aarhus, and the officers met in a leadership meeting. The doors to the new lessons for the coming year were opened, and a demonstration on handicraft was presented. 'Following the meeting, the sisters and a member of the priesthood met for a lovely Danish meal. There were over 100 in attendance, who enjoyed the dinner and the entertainment provided by members of the local branch. The sisters had gathered heather from the hills and flowers from their gardens to make beautiful centerpieces for the tables."' Kanab Stake (Utah) Relief Society Honors Ward Officers and Writer at Fall Social and Leadership Meeting September 21, 1968 Left to right: ila Mae Campbell, Homemaking Counselor, Kanab Stake Relief Society; Berle J. Heaton, Education Counselor; Annie C. Esplin; Cecil M. Fisher, President; Elizabeth H. Sorensen, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Fisher reports: ''At our fall leadership and opening social we honored our ward officers and teachers for their faithful service. Each sister was given a lovely sego lily corsage. Each ward presented a portion of the program. ''Special honors were given to Sister Annie C. Esplin for her talents in writing which have brought so much joy to many people. Sister Esplin has had many articles published in The Relief Society Magazine. We are very proud of this wonderful sister and her dear spirit which adds so much to our meetings."' 230 Nampa Stake (Idaho) Holds Fall Social And Style Show September 20, 1968 Ginger Fuhriman, Magazine representative, Nampa Stake Relief Society, modeling her lovely outfit. Ruth Davis, President, Nampa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our fall social took the form of a style show, with many lovely outfits modeled by the sisters who made them. As each outfit was modeled, violin music and a piano played background music for a brief narration describing the material and style. "The stage was beautifully decorated with bright colored flowers and a picket fence. It was a successful social.'' American Fork Stake (Utah) 'Friendship Builds Membership" Luncheon Honors Ward Presidencies, August 21, 1968 Seated at the head of the table, left to right: Letha Durfey, First Counselor, American Fork Stake Relief Society; Alice Wilkinson, member, General Board of Relief Society; Ethel M. Mecham, President, American Fork Stake Relief Society; Thorma Beer, Second Counselor. Members of the stake board are seated among the guests. Sister Mecham reports: ''A delightful luncheon, introducing the theme of our Relief Society for the coming year, 'Friendship Builds Membership,' honored our ward presidencies, with the stake board acting as hostesses. "The sisters received the message of the theme with great enthusiasm, and have taken back to their own wards posters, messages, skits, and songs. Each year we choose a theme to emphasize at leadership meetings, which helps us build the effectiveness of our Relief Society. '"'A most inspirational talk relevant to the theme was given by Sister Alice Wilkinson of the General Board."' Butte Stake (Montana), Philipsburg Branch Relief Society Completes 125-Year Old Quilt Front row, left to right: Viola Umphrey; Eva King, owner of the quilt; Carol Winninghoff, First Counselor, Philipsburg Branch Relief Society; Winnie Cloward, Second Counselor; Vera Measom, Secretary-Treasurer; Linda Yardley; Inez Ziegler. Back row, left to right: Renee Bloom; Helen Kesler; Helen Cassidy; Virginia Hansen, President; Ginger Yardley; Utahna Kennedy; Lena Northrup. Lillith W. Jones, President, Butte Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Sister Eva King asked members of the Philipsburg Branch Relief Society to quilt a top which had been in her family for 125 years and never completed. "These sisters were able to meet the request, as they have quilted many lovely quilts in the years they have been organized since 1957." 232 oo March 1969 South African Mission Relief Society Conference And Bazaar (Johannesburg, South Africa), August 31, 1968 Front row, left to right: Ida J. Romney; Eleanor A. Badger, Supervisor, South African Mission Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Eunice Fountain, Secretary; Barbara Chater, Magazine representative; Ivy Clark, President; Elder Marion G. Romney, Council of the Twelve; Howard C. Badger, President, South African Mission; Jean Wright, Second Counselor, Relief Society; Lilian Brummer, First Counselor. Sister Badger reports: ''We were honored to have Elder and Sister Romney present for our mission-wide Relief Society conference and bazaar. We had some members come from as far north as 780 miles and from as far south as 900 miles to Johannesburg. The conference was spiritually enlightening for all who attended, and the bazaar was successful from all angles. Work in Relief Society in the mission has been growing more and more successful each day."' Houston and Houston East. Stakes (Texas) Singing Mothers Present Inspiring Concert, August 10, 1968 Kathryn G. Pratt, President, Houston. Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The newly divided Houston and Houston East Stakes united to present an inspiring concert. The sisters, under the direction of Joyce Caldwell, and accompanied by Nancy Brownlee, entertained with the songs presented the previous week at the ''Hemisfair'' concerts, where 375 Singing Mothers from Texas, Louisiana, and Oklahoma performed. 'Laura Brunson is President of the Houston East Stake Relief Society. Glen Bleak is chorister."' Buenos Aires Stake (Argentina) Presents 'The Gift"' October 1967 Front row, left to right: Betty Malvestio (as Elizabeth Ann Whitney); Justina de Michalek (as Emma Smith); Raquel de Abajian (as Sarah M. Cleveland); Maria Elena de Lasceiras; Martha de Milan; Antonia De Vergelli; Elizabeth Karina Michalek (as the child). Back row, left to right: Angela Maria Stiros, narrator; Maria Luisa de Di Desidero; Pura de Losinne; Graciela Alvarez; Maria Christina Verdier de Michalek; Edith Alvarez, chorister; Dina Alvarez, organist; Idelmo Guido Ceschiara (voice of the Prophet Joseph Smith). Angela F. De Guiliani, President, Buenos Aires Stake Relief Society, reports: ''All of the wards in our stake presented the play, 'The Gift,' by Luacine C. Fox. The particular picture is of the Buenos Aires Second Ward. Husbands and neighbors were invited. 'We are very proud of the wards in our stake for their efforts in presenting this play, as all the presentations were very successful."' 234 LT SLL a A Hillside Stake (Utah) Presents Visiting Teacher Convention, "You And Your Light," June 17, 1968 Front row, left to right, sisters who were honored for long service and 100 per cent visiting teaching: Chrissy Slagle, forty-five years; Pearl Parkinson, forty-five years; Elzada P. Laver, forty-four years; Bordghild Poulson, forty-three years; Mary Jarvis, forty-three years; Laura Cook, fifty-eight years; Cornelia Van De Ende, fifty-three years. Back row, left to right, members of the Hillside Stake Board: Elda J. Bergeson, First Counselor; Leah C. Wood, President; Marion R. Johnson, Second Counselor; Helene J. Oman, Secretary-Treasurer; Helen Grover, chorister; Barbara B. Smith, spiritual living class leader; Evelyn Broschinsky, homemaking leader; Dora England, social relations class leader; Sarah D. Summerhays, cultural refinement class leader; Mona C. Young, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Wood reports: ''During the past five years, the visiting teachers in our stake have achieved a record of 100 per cent visiting teaching. They were honored at a convention with the theme, 'You and Your Light,' and we honored those who had served in this capacity for over forty years. 'The sisters were seated in the chapel according to their length of service as visiting teachers. The Singing Mothers presented beautiful music for this event. "Among the inspirational speakers was former President Howard S. McDonald of the Salt Lake Temple.

It was a successful and inspirational event."' 236 Lesson Department HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 9—Outside Housekeeping Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show how, by becoming aware of the necessity of outside as well as inside housekeeping, we can appraise our homes and determine any necessary improvements. INTRODUCTION One of our common human frailties is our inability to evaluate ourselves and our possessions honestly and objectively. There may be those who are able to make a fairly honest and moderate appraisal of themselves, but many of us tend to move from moderation in our self-evaluations toward one extreme or the other. Either we look with "a jaundiced eye" and nothing is commendable, or we go to the other extreme and fail to see any sign of blemish or fault in ourselves or in things which pertain to us personally. In either position we get a distorted view. The poet Robert Burns, recognizing this tendency in men and women, says, "O wad some power and gifti gie us, To see ourselves as others see us?" It is a wholesome practice to examine our lives occasionally and make an honest appraisal of ourselves and our surroundings.