[Vol56 | March 1969 | Page 177 | Special Feature | "What Wilt Thou Have Me to Do?" Afton | W. Hunt]
["What Wilt Thou Have Me to Do?" Afton W. Hunt]

Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Mayola R. Miltenberger Maurine M. Haycock General Board, more singers were added from the Salt Lake stakes, and Mrs. Sackett was appointed director. This group, consisting of 250 mothers, furnished the music for the April Conference, 1933, appearing under the name of ''Singing Mothers."' In 1940 the central chorus of Relief Society Singing Mothers was released by the General Board in order to strengthen Relief Society choruses in the wards and stakes of Salt Lake City from which the central chorus of Singing Mothers had been drawn. Since that time, music for each general session of the Relief Society General Conference has been provided by a combined stake Singing Mothers Chorus made up of selected singers from the respective stakes. Such combined choruses come from various areas of the Church. The wisdom of the General Board in disbanding the central chorus in favor of promoting local choruses is reflected in the growth in the number and size of Relief Society Singing Mothers choruses throughout the Church. Today there are 3,612 Singing Mothers choruses, with more than 51,496 women participating. The General Board pays tribute to the outstanding choristers, both local and General Board, who, with skill and devotion, have used their talents to help develop choruses that have attracted wide attention and much _ favorable 

181 March 1969

 comment from competent judges, and contributed significantly to the growth and accomplishments of the Society. We acknowledge with gratitude the work of the talented accompanists and the instrumentalists whose work is so important in the success of a chorus. We acknowledge with appreciation the invitations extended by distinvide special musical programs. In today's world where spiritual and cultural activities are so greatly needed, when the home needs the joyous uplift of good music, when mothers need the solace of song as they contend with the problems of life, Relief Society must press forward with its glorious program of congregaguished organizations and broadcasting stations to our choruses to present special concerts or protional and choral singing. This we know will be pleasing unto the Lord.