[Vol56 | March 1969 | Page 170 | Special Feature | Relief Society in the Welfare Plan Henry | D. Taylor]
Often I find myself applying the term, "the salt of the earth," to the great body of women who are Relief Society visiting teachers. Righteous in their lives, faithful in service, more than 132,000 sisters now go forth month after month in fair weather or foul, in their office and calling as representatives of Relief Society to uplift, to bless, and to exercise sisterly watchcare over the mothers and homemakers of the Church. Theirs is not an easy assignment. It involves conscientious study, prayer, countless hours of time, unselfish effort, and the strict regulation of their individual lives in order that they more fully may meet the requirements of the calling. Regardless of the demands made of them, however, these sisters go forth devotedly on their mission of love and mercy. Many sisters have done so year after year; in some instances for a period of time that is almost comparable to the generally allotted span of life. During the past year, I attended a' stake visiting teacher convention. Seated on the front row were some of the most angelic-looking women one might ever expect to see. They ranged in age from twenty-three to ninety-two years. All were visiting teachers who were being honored for their service. They had served in this calling from three to sixty-four years, respectively. I thought, how unlimited has been the good these sisters have accomplished. Could it have been precisely measured and then compiled with the records of tens of thousands of others who likewise have served, what an overwhelm- 'The Salt of the Earth" ing account of righteous accomplishment would be revealed! These sisters, however, do not give this service out of a desire to make a record, or for personal recognition or credit. Such motives would not lead to the achievement of the worthy purposes for which the visiting teacher program is designed. What, then, does prompt them to so serve? May I suggest one or two of the major reasons: 1. Respect for Church calling. 2. The spirit of the gospel which animates their lives. 3. The compassionate nature of the work which is according to the nature of women. 4. The genuine need for such a program. While it is true that the great bulk of visiting teachers give continuously dependable and qualified service, we must recognize that there are times when, with some of the sisters, enthusiasm declines and effort grows lax; when, indeed, "The salt begins to lose its savour." At such a time, we remind ourselves of the words of the Savior spoken to his disciples, '" if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted?" (Matthew 5:13). So the wise Relief Society president is alert for evidences of this. She asks herself, "What are its evidences, and how may they best be dealt with?" We suggest a few of the evidences as follows: Declining enthusiasm for the work; the attitude that it ls merely a routine duty to be performed or a favor conferred upon or concession made to the presidency; irregularity in attendance at visiting teacher meetings, and even in making visits; a shift in 

171 March 1969

 the compelling motive of the visit from rendering a needed and qualified service to a striving for a record in number of visits made; a tiredness on the part of the teacher; even a questioning of the worth of the program. The key person in helping the visiting teacher to maintain the freshness and vitality of the service and to find joy and satisfaction in the calling is the ward Relief Society president, supported and wisely counseled by the stake Relief Society president. The General Board, too, feels concern and offers its suggestions as follows: Let there be a closeness between the word Relief Society president and the individual visiting teachers so that the president may be aware at the very outset of any adverse attitudes or unproductive efforts. Let her see her responsibilities in motivating the sisters to fruitful and happy effort. Let her so act in the very beginning, by following approved procedures in making the call. Let her frequently emphasize to the visiting teachers, individually and collectively, the lofty purposes of the program. Let her occasionally inquire of the visiting teachers individually as to how they are enjoying their work, thus affording them opportunity confidentially to apprise her of problems or, better still, to be strengthened by bearing testimony of their love for the calling; let her be sensitive to the relationship of compatible women who more or less complement one another, being assigned to serve as companions, and the general success of the visit. Upon occasion, it may be wise for the president to 172 consider the desirability of a change in district assignments. Let her be quick to acknowledge individual as well as collective accomplishments, and to express appreciation for the devotion and the quality of work that brought this about. Let the teachers feel her personal faith and confidence in them, and_ her competence in dealing with the work because of her broad knowledge and understanding of the program and her strong personal conviction of its worthiness and the divinity that guides it. As we consider the type of women who make up the visiting teaching group (more than 139,000 of them), as we contemplate the motives which led them to make approximately 5,000,000 visits last year, as we ponder the uplift and comfort that has been brought into Latter-day Saint homes through their service, as we consider the gospel principles they have taught through precept and example, as we take into account the hands that have been strengthened and the homes that have been blessed, it does not seem inappropriate to refer to the visiting teachers as "The salt of the earth." So important, however, is the program that at no time or under any circumstance should those of us who are in charge of the work allow the salt to lose its savor because of laxity on our own parts. We bear in mind always that the important factor in helping any sister to maintain the savor in any Relief Society calling is to keep her testimony live and growing. Active participation in all aspects of Relief Society work is the open doorway to this. Morning Stillness Photo by Willard L $ 2 iw a,, ig a I IDENTITY Who am I? Only my Heavenly Father knows, For he created my spirit, and knew my intelligence. What am I? Again, he alone knows, now; But he desires that I learn To comprehend myself. This requires eternity. I could become a unique source Of infinite responses to truth. Why am I? A prism needed Through which truly may shine In numberless hues, That beauty and joy may be embodied.