[Vol56 | March 1969 | Page 223 | Fiction | "A Gift of Love" Addie | Belknap Pierson]
["A Gift of Love" Addie Belknap Pierson]

"And Ill play you a special song,' he said, some of his old easy confidence beginning to come back. Bea would miss Jennifer, but she was already occupied with her tiny granddaughter who had been born in early November. "It's so good to have a baby in the family at last," she announced proudly. 224 Elizabeth Miles was overjoyed at the prospect of returning to her sons and home. Dr. Mayhew gave Jennifer careful and detailed instructions concerning her care, which Jennifer took down in shorthand and typed for certain accuracy. As the plane circled the Salt Lake airport, Jennifer thought about the day when she had taken off, more than six months ago. She had been glad to go, but nothing could equal her joy upon returning. She had missed her home more in that six months than she had the entire time she spent in England. Yet, she had had such golden experiences in Houston, she would never regret having gone. The first people she saw as she followed her parents down the ramp were her three brothers, who could hardly stand still in their anticipation of being together as a family again, and especially of seeing their mother. Directly behind Sam stood Steve. She knew how to greet her brothers, but what about him? In the excitement of coming home, she had given that no thought. Tears fell freely as mother and sons, brothers and sister, and her mother's parents all greeted one another—themoment they had all hoped for but had dared not anticipate too much. "Mother stayed behind to have a good meal ready," Steve explained, as he smiled down at her in that old familiar way, taking her hand, and holding it a trifle longer than necessary. "We brought two cars,' Dave said quietly. How he has grown, Jennifer thought. There was a maturity in his face and actions that had not been there when she left. His success in football had given him a new confidence, which her parents had prepared her for, but she was, nevertheless, surprised by his manly bearing and steady gaze. He broke: into a smile and kissed her gently on the cheek. "Tm awfully glad you're back, Sis," he said. When she left, the last thing she would have expected from him was a show of affection of any kind. "I'm glad, too, Dave, terribly glad," she said, with tears playing at her eyelids. "Count mein," Steveremarked. It was decided that Jennifer and Elizabeth's parents would ride to Springville with Steve, while the three boys would go with their parents. "They'll probably never stop chattering," Jennifer's sweet grandmother remarked. "It has been so long for them." "We are all so thankful she came back to us," her grandfather said. "It has been quite a strain on everyone." He was a stake president, and spoke with a matter-of-fact calmness that reminded Jennifer of the way her mother had always been, taking things as they came, worrying, but never sharing the worry, lest others be affected by it. The next few months were busy ones for Jennifer, as she carried out Dr. Mayhew's instructions regarding the care of her mother, and attempted to manage the home. No more did she feel the pangs of dissatisfaction which had plagued her earlier. Welcome the Task She was happy at home. And she knew she was where she should be and doing the thing she ought to be doing. Steve was more attentive, and she was able to help him by typing his papers. He was competing for an important scholarship that would enable him to do graduate work at the university of his choice, and much of his time was occupied with this. Jennifer had come to accept him as he was, demanding nothing. She had a letter from Jim Long telling her that he would be seeing her in February. She was looking forward to this and the start of a new semester. She was confused by her feeling for Jim and for Steve, so she took the problem to her mother. "It is a perplexing problem, Jenny," her mother told her. "But if you are faced with a decision between the two of them, you will know through prayer and your heart. Don't try to use logic in matters of the heart, for it's not always best. I'm not suggesting that you abandon your common sense, but don't get tangled up in it. You can't say, riow this one is better looking, but that one has more money, or this one shows more promise of being — successful. They seem to be pretty much equal in most things that count, like manners, grooming, integrity, Church activity. But if the time comes, my dear, youll know which one is right for you, and which one needs you by his side. There is a great deal more to love than the physical attraction, but don't discount that either." They had many talks on the 225 "March 1969 qualities of a good wife and mother, each of which left Jennifer grateful for the example she had to follow. "Now, consider Pete," her mother: told her during one of their talks. "He seems to be a pretty impetuous little fellow, _never thinking, or really caring what the consequences of his actions will be, yet he's the most thoughtful character around here. Someday, and you mark my words, he is going to get himself into a jam, and he'll start thinking before he acts. I don't try to fight his personality too much, for to force a change on him would not be right. We have to mold character around what there is to begin with." Mrcother time, she spoke of her eldest son. "Dave is growing up fast. One morning I discovered that he was becoming a man. It wasn't the smell of shaving lotion or the sudden quiet maturity, it was the over-all effect. He's a little like your grandfather, he doesn't say much, and it's hard to know what he is thinking. His biggest fault is that once he makes up his mind, it is very difficult to reason with him. Fortunately, he has learned well the difference between right and wrong. I suppose one of these days a girl will come along and he'll have to unbend a little. That is the beauty of life. We can't control them, but we can guide them in so many subtle ways." It seemed to Jennifer that the things her mother was saying were written indelibly on her mind. "Sammy's the one who is most like your father," her mother 226 said one afternoon after Jennifer discovered that the youngster had dammed up the irrigation ditch in the field, causing a mild flood on the Miles property, and a great deal of indignation at the neighbor's. "You can be sure he wasn't in on it alone," her mother continued. "But, I am equally certain that he was the leader. Sammy needs discipline, but he also needs all the affection we can give him. I can't explain it, that self-confidence of his is a wondrous thing, but it has to be fed constantly. Do you understand what I mean?" "I think so," Jennifer replied, wondering if it would be possible to keep the boy out of mischief for even two hours at a time. He had been caught stealing apples from the neighbors again. "I only took the ones that fell on the ground on our side of the fence," he stubbornly insisted. "And how did you make them fall?" his father asked. Sam was made to apologize and help pick the apples without remuneration. "Perhaps that will keep him busy for just a little while anyway," Charles commented when Sam left the room. The Miles family had never been closer. Mrs. Miles spent a good many hours at the piano, and the family, all of whom had been blessed with good singing voices, joined her. They sang all of the old family favorites and the hymns from the hymn book. Steve and also his mother often joined them for quiet evenings of enjoyment. One afternoon in late January when Jennifer was visiting the campus with Steve, she met one of her former business instructors. "Jennifer, what a pleasant surprise. What are you doing with yourself these days?" Jennifer briefly explained to him what she had been doing. "You wouldn't happen to be interested in taking on some typing, on a rather permanent basis, would you?" he asked her. "Why, yes, Dr. Moran, I think I would enjoy that," she replied. "I am running this thesis typing service," he explained, "and I need a couple of really good typists who know the forms. It really pays quite well." Jennifer was excited. She enjoyed thesis typing, for the opportunity of learning, in depth, about so many different and fascinating subjects. They made final arrangements, and Jennifer was once more gainfully employed. She had expected Jim Long to be rather shy at meeting the rest of her family. But the young man was full of confidence and impressed them all. He was excited and anxious to continue his law studies. She knew that he would make an excellent lawyer. "Do «ou really lke living ir the country?" he asked her one day in the springtime. "T love it," Jennifer told him as she leaned against the walnut tree. "It is really a great place to visit," he commented, "but me, I have to have paved walks and lots of people around." He turned over on his stomach and gazed up at her. "I thought you liked Houston." "It is a nice place for a visit," She answered, smiling. "Really Welcome the Task though, I am quite adaptable. There are advantages to both kinds of life, and I can be perfectly happy anywhere, if the circumstances are right." "That is what I call a welladjusted person," he said, squeezing her hand. She looked at the top of his dark head, such a contrast from Steve's blonde one. But that was the least of their differences, she thought. How was it possible for her to be attracted to both? After Jim left again, Steve was more attentive, but she suspected that was because he was leaving soon for California to complete a summer internship in journalism. He could afford to be attentive at times like that. She knew him too well to expect him to be jealous over Jim. One afternoon, shortly before he was to leave, he came bounding across the lawn. She knew instantly that he had won the coveted scholarship. He hadn't mentioned where he would study. She knew that Columbia had a good journalism department, as did Stanford. Suddenly she didn't want him to go. 

227 March 1969

 She covered it up with a sincere display of interest and happiness. Perhaps it was best, she thought. He would leave for the summer, she was prepared for that, and she could work on forgetting him. Besides, Jim Long would return in September, she told herself. "Where will you go this fall Steve?" He looked serious for a moment, then grinned. "I will go to the Y, the same as if I hadn't received the scholarship." She was incredulous. "Why?" "It's where I want to go," he told her. "I like it there, and it is rising each year on the scale of excellence as a graduate school. I can get everything I need and want there, and be near everyone who counts, too." Mii rouehtont the summer, Jennifer worried a great deal about her mother. She seemed to have weakened considerably. In late July she contracted a cold, with a racking cough that left her weak and exhausted after each attack. By mid-August she was no better, in fact she seemed worse, and suffered a great deal of pain. Jennifer's fears grew, and she sensed them also in her father. Bea had written to announce that she would be in Utah in late August, and Jennifer made feverish plans for her arrival. She seemed driven to have the house in perfect order. Still, she found time for the additional serious talks with her mother. "Always welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself," her mother advised several times. 228 It was after visiting the doctor for a general check-up that it was suggested that Mrs. Miles enter the hospital. Jennifer could hardly bear the thought, for Elizabeth was so happy at home. But as the painful cough overtook her more and more frequently, Jennifer realized that only in the hospital could she receive the care and relief she needed so badly. On the eve of the day Bea was to arrive, Jennifer fell into bed exhausted. The house was in order, some advance meals prepared and in the freezer, and desserts readied. It had been hectic. Jennifer could not recall ever working so hard. Her mother had been in the hospital for a week, and that evening she had seemed somewhat better. "Goodbye, my darlings," she said softly as they prepared to leave. Each of the boys had been extra tender. Pete's goodbye had been most disturbing to Jennifer as she thought back over it. Each of them had kissed Mrs. Miles and said good night. Pete had leaned down and _ kissed her gently. "Goodbye, Mother," he sald softly. Mrs. Miles responded with her "Goodbye, my darlings." Jennifer, though exhausted, lay awake for a long while. She had no idea how long she had been sleeping when the telephone downstairs sounded loudly in the dead silence of the night. Getting up quickly, she hurried downstairs just as her father was hanging up. He looked gray and frightened. "Jenny," he said, "I think we had better go to the hospital." (To be continued) FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described.