[Vol8 | January 1921 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The International Council of Women]

The International Council of Women. The Seventh Quinquennial Session of the International Council of Women, which Council was organized in 1888, was held in Christiania, September 8 to 18, 1920. It marked an epoch not only in the affairs of the Council itself, but in the world at large, for few people realize the weight of public opinion which has focussed upon the League of Nations idea, and which was originated by a group of public spirited women, meeting in Washington in 1888, and thereafter every five years. It is true, Utopian ideas concerning an ideal condition of human society have been entertained by mankind from the days of Adam, Noah, Moses, Abraham and Solomon, while our wor- ' shipped Savior himself gave hope of such a united condition in the Millennium. Nor have the Pagan nations been left without their dreams of universal brotherhood. Plato's Republic contemplated such a united brotherhood, and Sir Thomas Moore followed in his footsteps, while Bulwer Lyton's dream and Belamy's Looking Backward, all held out hopes of universal amity and equality amongst men. These were dreams, but occasional efforts were put forth by individuals or even communities who attempted unsuccessfully to make this thought practical. Politicians tried it in various war treaties. The women of the United States, however, led out, in 1888, with a practical scheme for uniting women everywhere upon one common sex basis. National groups or Councils were composed of various national bodies of women, engaged in some form of public polity, whether on social, religious, philanthropic or civil lines, and each five years the millions of women bound thus loosely together in national and international groups, met, through their delegates, and actually put into practice some of their splendid ideals. Witness for instance the gift of equal suffrage which has come to practically all the women in civilized nations, in the last decade. The Council idea was born in the fertile brain and mighty soul of Mrs. May Wright Sewell, in the year previous to the first suffrage convention in Washington. Her close friend, at that period, and her assisting genius, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, accompanied Mrs. Sewell to present this glorious 'idea' to Miss Susan B, Anthony, who was and will remain the greatest leader and organizer of the women's hosts, outside of this Church and kingdom, in modern times. bo LSS) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Miss Anthony and her assisting generals had called an International Suffrage Congress to meet at Washington, in February, 1888. Seizing upon her beloved "girl's" council idea, she bade them bring the matter to a successful issue, which they did. Mrs. Sewell traveled and spoke to groups of women newly forming in Europe and America. Mrs. Avery, then Miss Rachel Foster, sent hundreds, nay thousands, of letters out into every Christian country. The eloquence and brilliant executive powers of Mrs. Sewell were paralleled by the sweet graciousness of Miss Foster's correspondence, and both were indefatigable in developing the "council idea." Miss Anthony and Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton gave largess of encouragement and stimulating creative criticism, from out their own wide experience and full vision. The first suffrage convention, Feb., 1888, was memorable indeed. A Constitution for a National and International Council of women was put forth and approved, representatives were present from Europe and all parts of America. The following officers were elected for the National Council of Women of the United States: President—Frances E. Willard, Illinois. Vice-President at Large—Susan B. Anthony, New York. Corresponding Secretary—May Wright Sewell, Indiana. Recording Secretary—Mary F. Eastman, Massachusetts. Treasurer—M. Louis Thomas, New York. OFFICERS OF THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL: President—Milicent Garrett Fawcett, England. Vice-President at Large—Clara Barton, United States. Corresponding Secretary—Rachel G. Foster, United States.. Recording Secretary—Kirstine Frederiksen, Denmark. Treasurer—Isabelle Bogelot, France. The charter members of this historic National Council of the U. S. A. Were: The National Woman Suffrage Association. The National Woman's Christian Temperance Union. 'The Woman's Centenary Association of the Universalists Church. Woman's National Press Association. Wimodaughsis (a National club). The National Women's Relief Society. The Young Ladies' National Mutual Improvement Association. The Illinois Industrial Reform School for Girls. as PRT PRMATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN. 23 The National Free Baptist Woman's Missionary Society. Sorosis, (the club representing, by invitation of the Council, the club movement, "until the General Federation of Women's clubs could be formed and affiliated"). In response to an invitation which had been issued to all known national organizations, not members of the council, 37 other societies sent fraternal delegates to this meeting. The International Council of Women was represented by its American officers. The general policy. Of the International Council is indicated in the preamble and in Article IT: PREAMBLE. "We, women of all nations, sincerely believing that the best good of humanity will be advanced by greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement of women will best conserve the highest good of the family and the state. Do hereby band ourselves together in a confederation of workers commmitted to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the golden rule to society, custom and law. ARTICLE II—GENERAL POLICY. "This International Council is organized in the interest of no one propaganda, and has no power over its auxiliaries beyond that of suggestion and sympathy; therefore, no National Council voting to become auxiliary to the International Council shall thereby render itself liable to be interfered with in respect to its complete organic unity, independence or method of work, or shall be committed to any principle or method of any other council, or to any utterance or act of this International Council, beyond, compliance with the terms of this constitution." From the first, the "Mormon" women, representing the two old established "Mormon" women's organizations were treated with the greatest consideration and justice. The two "Mormon" women present in Washington at that charter organization were Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Mrs. Janette Y. Easton. Especially noble in her attitude to our women was Miss Anthony and none the less broad minded and sympathetic were Mrs. Sewell and Mrs. Rachel F. Avery. Quinquennial council meetings with congresses attached to them have been held since that organization as follows:. London, in 1899; Berlin, in 1904; Canada, in 1909; Rome, in 1914; Christiania, in 1920. 'The Council held at the World's Fair in Chicago was particularly brilliant and most effective. There were one hundred twenty-six formal organizations of women present at this Congress: 
 The London Congress was perhaps as brilliant, if not as widely attended; the Berlin Congress was equally stupendous in conception and execution. The Canadian Congress was both delightful and educational, while the Congress held in Rome, 1914, just before the war broke out, was without parallel in the history of the women's movement. Singularly enough peace was featured as the triumphant note of that gathering on the hills of Rome. At this famous Congress Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams was aU. S. Delegate, Susa Young Gates was an alternate, Mrs. A. W. McCune was present as patron. The Congress recently closed in Christiania is the most unique one of all, for there were gathered there a group of women from nearly all of the organized national councils in the United States, Great Britain, Canada, Switzerland, Denmarl:, Norway, Sweden, and France, while greetings were sent from the German and Austrian councils. An intimate and most interesting account of this gathering was furnished by Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, from which the following items have been gleaned: "The council meetings opened Sept. 18, with a welcome afternoon tea at the Bristol hotel. This was a very successful affair, we were introduced to people from all over the world. "The new Aula hall was opened for the opening session at which the usual program of greetings and responses were given. "Lady Aberdeen was, as usual, very gracious, her appearance caused quite a demonstration, and when she finished her simple, short, but most impressive little talk, she was presented with a wonderful bunch of roses. "During Thursday and Friday we visited International Standing Committee meetings, where education, economic and moral standards were discussed. "Saturday, Sept. 11, 9:30 a. M. Marked the opening public meeting of the International Council; it was held in the Storthing building, and seats were assigned the different national delegations. The Americans were seated on the front row, facing the platform. "T consider the opening meeting one of the most important, and certainly the most interesting. As Lady Aberdeen knew that her term of office was drawing to a close, she spoke very feelingly of her associations with the women who had been leaders in the Council. Then she asked us to pause with reverential silence for a time, in memory of the departed dead. Then she called the roll of those who had been called beyond, since the meeting in Rome. "Of course we were particularly interested in our own Amer- THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF IVOMEN, 25 _ican women, whose work received unlimited praise from Lady Aberdeen. She said they were the original promoters and were women whose names will ever live in International prominence. "Those receiving particular mention were Susan B. Anthony, Mary Wright Sewell, Anna Howard Shaw and Rachel Foster Avery; at this point a message to the Council sent by Mrs. Sewell a few hours before her death, was read. "Tn closing her talk Lady Aberdeen said, 'Mothering power is what the world must have to bring it back to faith and love. In the Council there is room for all. We need a League of Nations that will teach us patience, tact and sympathy.' She closed by saying, 'And may our heavenly Father accept the dedication of ourselves to his Spirit.' "A telegram from Dr. Alice Solomon, of Germany, 3rd VicePresident was read explaining her absence, which in part read, 'My absence is not due to lack of appreciation, nor an unbelief in the mission of the Council. My heart yearns to co-operate with you, but as yet my conscience tells me this is not possible. Until there is a feeling of equal adjustment, and we can cooperate in the League of Nations the German women must withdraw. As Germany is not as yet recognized and welcomed on an equal footing, she can never expect equal cooperation. For this reason I decline any further consideration of renomination.' Continuing she said, 'The war enabled me to love and sympathize with all who were suffering, so I believe, with ever stronger faith, in spite of the present strife and unjustice love will triumph.' "Lady Aberdeen expressed a desire that the women of the International Council cooperate to see that Germany shall receive recognition in the League of Nations." "Mirs, Gordon, of Great Britain, presented a resolution to the effect that a telegram be sent Dr. Solomon conveying greetings and expressing regret at the present situation, but at the same time hoping that this obstacle would soon be overcome and the German delegation back, participating with the Council again. This resolution was seconded by France. "As we had just visited the battle fields, the thought came to my mind, 'It takes so short a time to forget.' "Cables were read from Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett and Lucy Anthony. "Saturday the ministers of foreign affairs gave a very elaborate reception and banquet for the delegates. "Sunday, Sept. 12—We were permitted to visit the art gallery of Vigeland; a famous Norwegian sculptor. "During the afternoon the municipality of Christiania gave a dinner party at Frognerssetern, a wonderfully beautiful summer resort in the mountains. 
 "There were 1,500 persons present. No words could describe the kind and quantity of food served. Champaign flowed in gallons, cigarettes were passed, and by far a majority of those present smoked. In fact, as far as I could determine, Lady Aberdeen and the American delegation were the only ones refusing. "On Thursday morning Lady Aberdeen entertained in honor of the American delegates. During Mrs. Moores' speech she apologized for so large an American delegation, expressing her surprise at the reported unwelcome attitude of the Norwegian ladies, but said the American women were so fond of Lady Aberdeen that it was her attraction that had prompted so many to make the journey. "The Norwegian N. C. President made some explanation of the reported criticism, referring to the crowded condition of the city, etc., but acknowledged that the criticism had been made. "Our afternoon with the King and Queen of Norway was one of the most pleasant memories of the convention. The informality for such an occasion was most pleasing. "On Thursday afternoon, the Finland ladies entertained at the Grand hotel for the American delegation, and this was certainly a bright spot in the week's pleasures. I never heard such wonderful expressions of gratitude. The president told us that when word reached them that the first car loads of American food had arrived, women fell on their knees in the street thanking God for Hoover and America. For weeks children from starvation had cried themselves to death, and mothers, in their piteously weakened state, could do nothing for them but pray that God would relieve them of their suffering. Their hearts were so full of gratitude at the death of a child, and mothers were heard to say, 'Wasn't God good for putting my baby to rest!' "One of the ladies said that on teaching their children to talk, almost reverently the first words learned were America and Hoover. "After weeks of adverse American criticism you may have some idea of our appreciation for these expressions of gratitude. "T was unable to attend the closing dinner party on account of the illness of Sister Smith. At 2 a. M. Margaret and myself went two miles to get Brother August S. Schow to come and administer to her. "She, however, was much better the following morning, and left with the party on the 7:30 train. "She went through the Fjords by a short route, and sailed from Bergen to New Castle. We went on with the party, sailed to Antwerp, then to Holland and into England. At the close of the Council, we visited London, went to Liverpool and were guests of President and Sister George Albert Smith over night. THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN. 27 President Smith and wife are doing a wonderful work in the British mission, the feeling of opposition is intense, yet with Brother Smith's wonderful personality he has succeeded in impressing the big men, and has won people we have never before been able to reach. "The voyage home was rough, but with the company of Latter-day Saints on board we managed to spend some very pleasant hours. "May the Lord continue to bless you all; for, more than ever before, I realize your separate virtues and efficiency. Never in my life has my faith been stronger or my love greater for the work of the Relief Society and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. For your friendship and faith in me | thank you." —Ida Smoot Dusenberry. Our Utah ladies were: Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, representing the National Woman's Relief Society, was an official representative being one of the ten United States delegates. She was accompanied by her daughter, Margaret. Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith represented the Y. L. M. I. A. She went there from Liverpool and was attended by her daughter Edith. Mrs. Anna McKay was in attendance also, going there from London with Mrs. Smith and daughter. AS TO THE PROGRAM: September 8, 1920, the International Council itself held executive and committee meetings. During these business sessions, the following topics were discussed, and the following resolutions were approved: President's quinquennial report, Report of the committee appointed to select from authentic documents the data essential to a correct historical knowledge of the founding of the I. C. W., Treasurer's report, Quinquennial reports from National Councils and of standing committees, Propaganda week for I. C. W., Establishment of an official organ by the I. C. W. "Tt was resolved that the International Council of Women strongly endorse the principle of the rights of all nations and a League of Nations, to prevent further strife and secure the wellbeing of the world." Importance of appointment of women as members of the Assembly and of the Commissions of the League of Nations, as well as to the position of advisers and consultants was considered; Resolutions referring to education were passed; International interchange of public school teachers, Training in citizenship and instruction of girls in the laws of their country, Better cinema films, Resolutions specially affecting children were considered: International movement for child welfare, Rights of children born out of wedlock. Laws of nationality: Recommendation to national councils to promote legislation on above 
 Subject in their respective countries. Recommendation of national councils for study of legislation bearing on marriage with aliens, with a view to proposals for international agreements to be drawn up for submission to League of Nations and governments. Resolutions regarding public health: International bureau of public health, Closer relationship between departments of public health, Medical examination for emigrants, Recommendation to national councils to promote the provision of healthful and convenient housing as an essential for public health. The following is peculiar: "That in view of the great benefits that have accrued to the United States of America, and to Canada, from the experience of local option in these countries, the International Council considers that in every country where the sale of liquor is carried on, a similar power should be granted to its citizens." Why local option? 'Further were considered the study of the question of the endowment of motherhood, Endowment of mothers in necessitous circumstances, Women in Juvenile courts, Women on public committees, Economic position of the wife, Resolutions regarding questions of morality, and The equal moral standard, Campaign against traffic in women, Abolition of state regulation of prostitution, Study of best means of combating the spread of venereal diseases, State regulation of vice in mandatory territories, Segregation of persons proved incapable of sex control, Deprecation of recent exaggerations in dress and: dancing. The following is significant: "That the I. C. W. Deprecates the exaggeration in dress and dancing, which has recently arisen in many countries." A preamble to a recommendation for a return to a simpler mode of life, reads: "Whereas, it is within the power, and it is also the duty of women to co-operate in the economic reconstruction of their respective countries, the I]. C. W. Recommend all affiliated National Councils to use their influence to bring about a return to a simpler mode of life, and to combat, in the home as well as in society, luxurious habits which lead to extravagance and display in dress and amusements, and which, in the opinion of the J. C. W., contributes largely to arouse class animosity and discontent, which are amongst the worst evils of our day." An interesting discussion followed the introduction of this resolution. The Belgium women objected strongly to any embargo being placed upon lace making, which might already be included in the luxury clause. The Irish, Swiss and Belgian women find their means of livelihood in lace making and embroidering and the representatives vigorously protested against this resolution, but the majority of the delegates favored the resolution. The new officers for the Quinquennial period are as follows: THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN, 29 Madame Chaponier-Chaix, president; The Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair, Hon, president; Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon., D. Sc., Ph. D., F. L. S., J. P., Madame Avril de Sainte-Crois, Froken Henni Forchhammer, Dr. Phil Alice Salomon, Mrs. Henry Dobson, and Mrs. Philip North Moore, as vice-presidents; Fru Anna Backer, corresponding secretary; Madame Isidora Sekulitch, vice-corresponding secretary; Miss Elsie Zimmern, recording secretary; Miss L. Van Eeghen, recording secretary; Mrs. W. E. Sandford, treasurer; Mademoiselle Helene D. Antonopoulo, vice-treasurer. Madame Chaponier-Chaix, who is practically unknown in America, is nevertheless a woman of great executive ability and tender, if restrained, sympathies. She is very conservative, independent, yet ever of quiet enthusiasm for the aims of the Council, and she will make a very safe and sane executive for the troublous period which awaits the world and the Council itself. She was "President of the National Council of Women of Switzerland, 1904-1916, and again 1916-1920, and a member of the Executive, since 1899, when she assisted to found the Council. Previous to that date Mme. Chaponier had served for more than 13 years as a member of the Institution of Protestant Deaconesses at Paris, and in that capacity had principally devoted herself to educational and philanthropic work. After returning to Geneva, Mme. Chaponier acted for many years as one of the directors of the Union of Women of Geneva, of which body she has also been President. She has also interested herself in providing restaurants for women and workshops for women's work. For the last few years Mme. Chaponier has entirely devoted herself to the work of the National Council of Women of Switzerland. She has been delegate to most of the Quinquennial meetings of the I. C. W., and has often been good enough to undertake the arduous work of interpretation on those occasions." The second vice-president, Froken Henni Forchhammer, is a marvelous linguist and a cultured representative of the advanced Danish women. She was one of the Danish delegates to the League of Nations just held in Geneva, and was the only woman who addressed the League. Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon and Mrs. Henry Dobson are both well known English publicists. Mrs. Philip North Moore is our own charming and gracious American representative. The treasurer, Mrs. W. E. Sandford, is a splendid representative of the intelligent freedom-loving, yet conservative women of Canada. Lady Aberdeen is the most famous, and best beloved of all public women, known nationally, and internationally. 
 On Dec. 2 and 3, our Mrs. Dusenberry, accompanied by Mrs. Ruth May Fox and Mrs. Alice D. Moyle, who represents the Y. L. M. I, A., attended the executive meeting of the U. S. Council of Women held in Washington, D. C. Mrs. Dusenberry sends a full and interesting account of this business session of the Council. She herself went down from New York where she is spending the winter doing professional research work. The Council was not well attended but some of the officers present arose from sick beds to attend meetings, as colds are very prevalent. Reports of the International Council held in Christiania were given by the President, Mrs. Philip North Moore, and much discussion was held on the following points: The propaganda for a suitable League of Nations: a Memorial for Mrs. May Wright Sewell: the Woman's Memorial Building to be erected in Washington, for which Congress has donated the land, and which will be built when $700,000 has been collected. Five hundred thousand has already been subscribed for that purpose: the coming Suffrage Celebration in Washington; the future of the Council itself, to which discussion Mrs. Dusenberry contributed some very wise suggestions; finally, the place where the next U. S. Council Congress is to be held, brought out Mrs. Fox's urgent invitation, seconded by the Governors of several Western states to hold the Congress in this city. Chicago came forward as did several other cities with equally pressing invitations, and the matter was left for future action. Our old friends, Miss Lucy Anthony and Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer were present and sent greetings to Pres. Emmeline B. Wells and old friends in Utah. Thus closed another historic gathering. Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry. "THE BOYS OF SPRINGTOWN" It is delightful to know that the boys of the Church have a book published for their own special delight by a home author. Nephi Anderson is one of our best and most popular fiction writers. He has written many delightful books, but none of them will fill a greater need than the recent one which is called The Boys of Springtown, Full of quiet charm and real joy and atmosphere, the book is a safe one to place in the hands of every boy in this Church. Our locally famous author has enriched our home library with this latest publication. Group of Delegates to the International Executive Meeting, held in Copenhagen, 1902. Mme. Chaponier-Chaix, the new I. C. Of W. Pres. Is seated on couch on extreme left, next to Mrs. Susa Young Gates. Standing between them is Froken Henri Forchammer of Denmark, the new Vice-Pres. Of the I. C. W.