[Vol8 | January 1921 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial My New Year Resolution]

MY NEW YEAR RESOLUTION It is not often wise to make verbal or formal resolutions. It is always unwise to sign pledges or to commit one's self to formal declaration of purpose as to future actions. But if any progress is to be made by the soul, the human will must set itself to travel a certain path, to overcome a certain obstacle, to break a certain bad habit. And so, when this New Year day comes, this day on which most of us sit down and take stock of our spiritual assets and liabilities, one is often led to form a quiet, unspoken resolution to conquer one fault, to break one bad habit. As a Relief Society worker, as a mother and grandmother, my one yearning desire is to help my son, or my grandson, to put away the vile habit of smoking, if he has acquired that habit, or to give him moral courage to resist esa otal when it comes his way. How can I do that? By setting my own will to conquer my own weakness. Do I drink tea? No! Coffee? No! My mother conquered that habit for me before I was born, and kept me brave and loyal in my growing years, so that I have not nor ever have had any desire to touch these forbidden things. But in the revelation in Section 88, which precedes the word of wisdom occur these wonderfully pregnant commandments which epitomize the teachings of Moses, the word of wisdom, Christian Science, all that doctors ever knew or know today about physical and mental healing: 
 "See that ye love one another; cease to be covetous, learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires; "Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful: retire to thy bead early, that ye may~not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated; "And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bonds of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace; "Pray always, that ye may not faint until I come: behold, and lo, I will come quickly, and receive you unto myself. Amen." Now in these golden sentences lies one gem that I wish I might wear as a jewel over my heart. It spells life and health and rich blessings for me. I shall not tell you which, for it might not be at all the one that you need. Choose thou thine own! Pres. Heber J. Grant has expressed a wish that all officers in the Relief Society, as well as in other auxiliaries, should resign if they do not keep the word of wisdom. Now I, who do keep it, must center my reforming, repentant efforts on other matters where I come short of being exemplary as a leader in Israel. These boys, O these boys of ours! What would we not give, or give up, to see them walk altogether in the ways of truth and righteousness? Could any sacrifice be too great? Shall we not make one solemn resolve this New Year's day, O mothers and grandmothers, that we will keep the word and words of wisdom, not only because of our position in the Relief Society and for the sake of our own souls, but also for the sake of our sons and our dear neighbor's sons who are just now taking up the cross in this no-tobacco campaign? Come let us resolve together! MEMOIRS OF JOHN R. YOUNG The struggles and incidents which make up the early history of this state and this people are never dull nor commonplace. 'Particularly vivid is a story written by John R. Young, a famous Utah pioneer, and son of Patriarch Lorenzo Young. John R. Young, in his virile manhood, was a striking character in southern Utah. Honorable to a fault, noble, active, humorous, and without fear, he was a scout, state-builder, and path-finder of rare ability. His story, as gleaned from his journals and now printed, is full of delightful charm and compelling interest. We recommend this book to every Latter-day Saint family. Published by the Deseret Book Company.