[Vol43 | April 1956 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sacred | Author: Isaacson]
["Sacred Ground," by Ida Isaacson]
ALTERNATE  89 
Here  at  Pioneer  Square  is  the  old 
Governor's  House,  a  long  structure 
built  in  1864,  now  a  museum  hous- 
ing a  collection  of  household  uten- 
sils, firearms,  and  furniture.  Back 
of  the  Governor's  House  is  the  Shar- 
lot  Hall  Museum,  which  houses  a 
library  of  pioneer  printed  material. 
265 
Two  log  cabins  stand  on  Pioneer 
Square,  one  a  replica  of  a  pioneer 
home,  the  other,  a  reproduction  of 
the  first  cabin  in  Prescott. 
Well,  there  it  is,  Alternate  89, 
an  interest  filled  ninety-two  miles- 
plus  a  little  extra  for  side  trips. 
uiapptness    /low 
Wilma  Boyle  Bunker 
TOO  many  of  us  are  guilty  of  postponing  our  happiness  until  the  future.  Too  many 
of  us  say,  'Tomorrow  I  will  do  some  of  the  things  I  would  like  to  do  today." 
If  we  are  ever  to  enjoy  life,  now  is  the  time,  not  tomorrow,  not  next  year,  nor  in 
some  future  life  ....  Today  should  be  our  most  wonderful  day. 
We  can  find  time  to  read;  we  can  study  music;  we  can  take  the  children  on  a  pic- 
nic or  try  out  a  new  recipe;  we  can  try  to  learn  to  mold  a  clay  ballerina  or  write  a  son- 
net. Are  we  so  practical  that  we  forget  to  dream?  Are  we  so  absorbed  in  making  a 
living  or  running  a  home  or  saving  a  dollar  that  we  cease  to  invest  in  our  dreams? 
It  is  important  that  we  plan  for  the  days  to  come,  that  we  prepare  as  best  we  can 
for  the  future,  but  if  we  wait  to  enjoy  life  until  we  think  everything  is  in  order,  we 
may  find  it  is  too  late. 
Time  has  struck  off  yesterday;  tomorrow  as  yet  does  not  exist;  we  are  sure  only 
of  today,  so  let  us  find  our  happiness  now,  this  day,  this  hour. 
Sacred  (ground 
Ida  Isaacson 
Sacred,  gull-laden  land, 
With  breath  of  mint  and  grass. 
What  shall  I  leave  thee, 
When  I  pass? 
My  footfall  is  so  light, 
Will  no  trace  or  print  be  found? 
Tell  those  who  follow  after 
That  I  loved  this  sacred  ground.