[Vol43 | April 1956 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Fiction | Title: Ella]
[Ella Randall Lewis Pieces Quilts for Happiness]
—Ella  M.  Horton,  Ass't.  Sec. 
REPORT  FROM  THE  SANDWICH  ISLANDS:  Sister  Libbie  Noall,  who  re- 
turned last  fall  from  the  Sandwich  Islands,  gave  a  most  interesting  description  of  her 
labors  in  the  Relief  Society  among  the  native  sisters  on  those  islands.  The  first  Relief 
Society  organized  there  was  in  1875  ...  .  These  sisters  are  as  willing  to  make  sacri- 
fices as  we  are  at  home  in  Zion;  they  are  full  of  faith  and  zeal  in  their  religion,  and  are 
naturally  gifted  in  speaking.  They  learn  quickly  and  do  fancy  work  of  various  kinds. 
They  are  fond  of  their  meetings  and  will  walk  long  distances  to  attend  religious  serv- 
ices ....  — From  a  Report  of  the  General  Conference  of  Relief  Society 
Page  238

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
HPHE  League  of  Women  Voters, 
a  national  organization,  is  cur- 
rently stressing  in  its  local  organiza- 
tions the  preparation  of  women  to 
take  part  effectively  in  the  coming 
national  elections.  The  stated  pur- 
pose of  the  League,  which  was  or- 
ganized in  1920,  is  to  ''promote  po- 
litical responsibility  through  in- 
formed and  active  participation  of 
citizens  in  government." 
TUCRETIA  FERRE,  young  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  soprano  from  Salt 
Lake  City,  who  has  won  acclaim 
throughout  the  United  States  and 
in  many  European  cities,  in  Decem- 
ber 1955  sang  in  the  "Messiah"  pre- 
sented for  service  men  in  Augsburg, 
Germany. 
MADAME  SIMONE  COUS- 
TEAU  prefers  living  "with  ad- 
venture" —  and  her  husband,  Jac- 
ques-Yves, explorer  and  inventor,  on 
his  French  national  scientific  ship, 
"Calypso,"  to  being  a  Paris  social- 
ite. Nine  months  of  the  year  her 
life  is  "uncomfortable  and  acro- 
batic" in  their  close  quarters.  Some- 
times she  cooks  for  twenty-three 
men,  also  acting  as  purser,  nurse, 
and  assistant  winch-operator.  From 
the  "Calypso"  scientists  explore  the 
under-water  world,  its  marine  life, 
geology,  the  water  itself,  and  wrecks 
of  ships  sunk  before  the  time  of 
Christ. 
MABEL  LAW  ATKINSON  and 
her  daughter  Frances,  of  Day- 
ton, Idaho,  at  present  living  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  tied  for  first-place 
honors  in  the  1955  short  story  con- 
test sponsored  by  the  National 
Thanksgiving  Association.  Repre- 
sentatives from  thirty  states  entered 
the  contest.  Both  Mrs.  Atkinson 
and  her  daughter  are  contributors 
to  The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
CORNELIA    OTIS    SKINNER, 
gifted  American  actress,  in  a  re- 
cent interview,  emphasized  a  beau- 
tiful speaking  voice  as  necessary  to 
a  woman's  charm.  "A  wonderful 
and  pleasant  way  to  improve  your 
voice  is  to  read  aloud  and  listen  to 
yourself.  If  possible,  have  a  tape 
recording  made,  because  you  always 
sound  different  than  you  imagine." 
"DIRTHDAY  congratulations  are 
extended  to:  Mrs.  Rachel  Moore 
Wood,  one  hundred,  and  Mrs. 
Caroline  W.  Newman,  ninety-nine, 
both  of  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah;  Mrs.