[Vol43 | April 1956 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Fiction | Title: To a | Author: Woolsey]
[To a Child Gardening — Frontispiece Maryhale Woolsey]
Child Gardening Maryhale Woolsey Make smooth the bed in which the seed shall lie— This small brown plot of earth that claims your toil; Clear out the stones, and break the rough, hard clods, And finely sift the dark and humid soil. (Dream, child, of tall bright flowers, and the day You'll take to Mother-dear a fine bouquet.) Deep go the roots (and not the plant's alone!) © And lightward rise the questing leaf and stem, Taking in turn, of soil and sun and rain, The contributions growth demands from them. (Watch, child; tend well—and learn, as seedlings grow To blossomed strength, much you will need to know.) Far stretch the days—to you, so endless-long! Tall shining noons and phantom dreaming nights Will try your patience, mystify your mind— And bring at last your harvest of delights. (Learn from your garden, child, how God and you Co-operate to make a dream come true! ) oo The Cover: Big Ben and Parliament Square, London, England Photograph submitted by Elaine Reiser = Frontispiece: Amaryllis, Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen The Resurrection Elder LeGrand Richards Of the Council of The Twelve F all the blessings and priv- () ileges the gospel of Jesus Christ has to offer its faithful members, the promised resurrection from the dead is one of the greatest, for it opens the door to an eternal association with loved ones and friends, which condition we have the capacity to understand and appreciate at least in part. Jesus was the greatest character who has ever lived upon the earth, for he was not only the Creator of this world, but of "worlds without number" (Moses 1:33), and he came into the world of his own free will and choice, and gave his life to atone for the sins of the world, so that what man lost through the transgression of Adam he might regain through Christ's great atoning sacrifice. Hence the words of the Apostle Paul: "As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive" (I Cor. 15:22). The angels proclaimed the birth of Jesus as Israel's promised Messiah; he demonstrated in all his teachings and the miracles he performed, that he was the Son of God, and that all power was given unto him in heaven and upon earth, even the power to lay down his life and take it up again (John 10:17-18). But the final proof of all his clams came when the stone was rolled away from the door of the sepulcher, notwithstanding the presence of the Roman guard, and his body came forth after three Page 212 days, as he had said, and when the women approached the sepulcher and found the stone rolled away, and "found not the body of the Lord Jesus," they were much perplexed, and two men stood by them in shining garments and said: "Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen." When the women reported this experience unto the apostles "their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not." (See Luke 24:1-12.) Even though Jesus had told his apostles that: "The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again" (Luke 24:7), they could hardly believe. How then could the world be expected to believe? "That we should live again is no more a miracle than that we live at all." Upon receiving the report from the women, Peter "ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass" (Luke 24:12). As the apostles were gathered together:, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit. And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? And why do thoughts arise in your hearts? Behold THE RESURRECTION my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have. And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and his feet. And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat? And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. And he took it, and did eat before them (Luke 24:36-43). Without his body of flesh and bone, Jesus would not have eaten the fish and honeycomb. What greater proof could he have given of his resurrection? OLLOWING his resurrection, Jesus "shewed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days " And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up; and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel; Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven (Acts 1:3, 9-11). It seems incredible that, in the light of this plain and convincing evidence of his resurrection, "by many infallible proofs" lasting over a period of "forty days," that men should believe today that Jesus is a spirit or essence everywhere present, which would imply that he had died a second death, that his spirit and body were again separated, else how could he be now but a spirit? It was in this glorified, resurrected body that Jesus appeared unto 218 the Nephites in the land of America (See 3 Nephi 11), and unto Joseph Smith while he was but a boy, in the woods on his father's farm at Palmyra, New York. To further prove that the resurrection would come to all men because Jesus was victor over death and the grave, the graves of many who slept were opened following his resurrection, and they came forth. And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose. And came out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many (Mt. 27:52-53). If the resurrection were to be but a spiritual resurrection, as some teach and believe, there would have been no need of the graves having been opened, and this account would not have stated: "and many bodies of the saints which: slept arose." 'Thus the bodies and spirits were again united. The Lord revealed unto the Prophet Joseph Smith that when the body and spirit are separated, they cannot receive a fulness of joy. "For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy" (D. & C. 93:33-34). There were also those who were resurrected among the Nephites in America, following Christ's resurrection (3 Nephi 23:9-13). That is why Paul tells us that Christ was the "firstfruits" of the resurrection. "But every man in his own order: Christ the firstfruits; afterward they 214 that are Christ's at his coming" (I Cor. 15:23). E should mention his second coming to which the apostle Paul refers. All through his earthly ministry, Jesus looked forward to, and taught his disciples of his second coming: his parable of the five wise and five foolish virgins. "Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh" (Mt. 25:1-13). His declaration: When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats (Mt. 25:31-32). His - disciples fully understood from his teachings that he would come again. When "he sat upon the Mount of Olives," they "came unto him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world?" (Mt. 24:3). Of course, they had reference to his second coming, for he was already with them. And while Jesus gave them many signs of his coming, he informed them: But of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only. But as the days of Noe were, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be (Mt. 24:36-37). Then we have his final testimony RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 as he stood trial before the chief priests and elders: But Jesus held his peace. And the high priest answered and said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast said: nevertheless I say unto you, Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven (Mt. 26:63-64). When John, the beloved apostle of our Lord, was banished upon the Isle of Patmos, the angel of the Lord showed him many_ things from before the foundation of the world to the winding up scenes when we would have a new heaven and a new earth, and among other things, he was shown the coming of the Savior according to his promise, and the resurrection of the worthy dead at his coming; when Satan would be bound for a thousand years: and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection: on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years (Rev. 20:4-6), What a promised privilege to the faithful! 'Think of being associated with Christ in his ministry for a thousand years with our resurrected bodies, while he is overcoming all his enemies, and preparing his kingdom to be delivered unto his Father, as Paul explains: THE RESURRECTION Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and power. For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death (I Cor. 15:24-26). F we had the capacity to understand the magnitude of these promises, it would seem that none should falter, but that each would so live that he would be worthy to have part in the first resurrection, and that we would all do all in our power to help our loved ones and friends to live to be worthy of these blessings, remembering the words of our Savior: "... Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it" (Mt. 7:14). Because, as the apostle Paul tells us: But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned (I Cor. 2:14). It is because the natural man cannot understand the things of God that we read such statements as this: In Senator Albert J. Beveridge's book, The Young Man and the World, the Senator quotes the following statement made to him by a man whose name is known to the railroad world as one of the ablest transportation men in the United States: "I would rather be sure that when a man dies he will live again with his conscious identity, than to have all the wealth of 215 the United States, or to occupy any position of honor or power the world could possibly give." Measured by this man's appraisal, how rich and favored we are, for this is common knowledge to a Latter-day Saint. From a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, we read: When the Savior shall appear we shall see him as he is. We shall see that he is a man like ourselves.. And that same sociality which exists among us here will exist among us there, only it will be coupled with eternal glory, which glory we do not now enjoy (D. & C. 130:1-2). E have never seen a person who has been clothed with "eternal glory,' but the Prophet Joseph Smith described such a man, Moroni, who appeared to him. After giving a detailed description, he stated: Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his _ countenance truly like lightning. (See P. Of G. P., Joseph Smith 2:30-32.) When the angel of the Lord showed John the Revelator, while banished upon the Isle of Patmos, so many wonderful things, John was so impressed with his personage, for he had been endowed with "eternal glory," just as Moroni had, that he fell down to worship at the feet of the angel: Then said he unto me, See thou do it not: for I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book: worship God (Rev. 22:9). Thus this angel, and Moron, 216 were real men of the brethren who had lived upon the earth, and had been resurrected, and were continuing in the service of the Lord, as we will all be privileged to do, if we are faithful; and the same "'sociality" which exists among us here will exist among us then. The Prophet Isaiah saw the time when we would have a new heaven and earth, and declared: For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth: and the former shall not be remembered, nor come into mind and they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them. They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat; for as the days of a tree are the days of my people, and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands. They shall not labour in vain, nor bring forth for trouble; for they are the seed of the blessed of the Lord, and their offspring with them (Isaiah 65:17, 21-23). Note how Isaiah makes plain the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 fact that "they shall build houses, and inhabit them, and they shall plant vineyards and eat the fruit of them." Who shall do all this? Families, of course, just as they do now, for as Isaiah stated: "they are the seed of the blessed of the Lord, and their offspring with them." This is, therefore, a continuation of family organization after the resurrection, in this new world, a truth the Lord has made so plain through his revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in this new gospel dispensation. What a glorious day it will be, therefore, when the trump of God shall sound, if we are worthy to come forth in the morning of the first resurrection, to receive and be united with our loved ones, when the graves are open and they come forth through the power of the atonement wrought for us by the Redeemer of the world (D. & C. 29:13). A atti (Bo ore Your Beauty
