[Vol43 | April 1956 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Fiction | Title: Heartsease | Author: Sadleir]
Lancer— ^/l   i^heck-  Lip  and  a   Lheck 
Sandra  Munsell 
Supervisor,  Magazine  Advertising  Services,  American  Cancer  Society 
n^HIS  April,  the  American  Cancer  Society  will  intensify  its  year-round 
educational  program  by  urging  all  Americans  to  fight  cancer  with  a 
check-up  and  a  check  ...  a  check-up  to  save  their  own  lives,  a  check  to  save 
the  lives  of  their  fellows.  To  carry  on  its  nation-wide  program  of  scientific 
research,  professional  and  public  education,  and  service  to  patients,  the 
Society  seeks  to  raise  $26,000,000.  This  is  a  particularly  significant  figure. 
If  present  rates  continue,  26,000,000  Americans  now  alive  will  die  of  cancer. 
In  a  few  short  years  we've  seen  the  discovery  of  antibiotics,  new  wonder 
drugs  for  tuberculosis,  a  vaccine  for  polio.  We  will  see  the  conquest  of 
cancer,  too,  if  people  want  it  badly  enough.  Last  year  the  American  Cancer 
Society  was  unable  to  fill  requests  for  research  funds  totaling  almost 
$3,000,000.    The  reason— not  enough  money. 
Cancer  and  healthy  cells  seem  to  feed  on  different  kinds  of  "food." 
We  know  how  to  make  some  cancer  cells  die  by  starving  them.  Will  we 
starve  out  all  kinds  of  cancer  cells  one  day?  Onlv  more  work  and  research 
will  tell. 
Some  cancer  patients  develop  substances  that  fight  their  own  tumors. 
When  science  knows  more  about  antibodies,  we  may  have  a  new  cancer 
treatment.  Only  more  work  and  research  will  tell. 
Some  cancers  are  being  halted  by  atomic  materials.  Can  new  radio- 
active isotopes  affect  other  cancers  in  the  same  way?  Only  more  work  and 
research  will  tell. 
New  drugs  are  being  developed  that  fight  specific  kinds  of  cancer. 
Will  any  of  them  turn  out  to  be  cancer-killers?  Only  more  work  and  re- 
search will  tell. 
The  law  of  averages  says  that  cancer  will  kill  one  out  of  every  six 
Americans.  But  the  law  does  not  have  to  prevail.  You  can  help  break 
it  in  two  ways.  By  having  a  thorough  medical  checkup  every  year  .  .  .  and 
by  sending  a  contribution  to  your  unit  of  the  American  Cancer  Society 
or  to  Cancer,  c/o  your  town's  Postmaster. 
Fight  cancer  with  a  checkup  and  a  check. 
uieartsease 
Beuhh  lluish  SadJeir 
When  the  heart  is  rilled  with  grief — 
Plant  a  flower  or  rake  a  leaf; 
Heaven's  hope  is  centered  where 
Two  busy  hands  make  silent  prayer. 
Page  244

Lesson  From  Letty 
Arlene  D.  Cloward 
DEAR  DIARY: 
Today  I  grew  up.  Oh, 
I'm  only  one  day  older  in 
time,  but  years  older  in  wisdom, 
and  it  all  happened  because  today 
was  my  Mother's  birthday.  
I 
learned  my  lesson  from  Letty.  Early 
this  morning  no  one  could  have 
told  me  that  I  could  learn  anything 
from  my  little  eight-year-old  
sister, 
as  we  sat  on  the  front  steps  planning 
what  to  get  for  our  Mother.  I  was 
so  deeply  engrossed  that  I  scarcely 
even  knew  that  she  was  there.  It 
was  a  very  beautiful  day,  with  the 
sky  all  clear  and  blue  and  the  sun 
glimmering  through  the  big  trees,
