[Vol43 | April 1956 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Fiction | Title: The Day | Author: Kilian]
The Day Before the Wedding Dorothy Boys Kilian T four o'clock Janie Marston adjusted the last pair of flowered chintz draperies on their rod, stepped down off the ladder and sighed with satisfaction. It had been a frantically full day, the one before her wedding, but what fun — arranging everything just the way she wanted it in this first home of her very own. Hers and Dean's, she amended warmly as she heard a car turn into the drive outside. This is the way it would be, always and _ forever, after tomorrow — listening for his coming in the evening, running to greet her husband. Starry-eyed, Janie forgot how tired she was, as she hurried eagerly to the back door. Looking down the steps, she stared in amazement at the big, orange crate-filled trailer attached on behind the familiar blue convertible. "Hi, darling,' Dean called up as he stepped out of the car. "Just picked this stuff up at the Railway Express." He waved an arm breezily toward the load behind him. Janie glanced wildly around the tiny apartment, mentally measuring the capacity of its little cupboards, its two skimpy closets. "What on earth's in all those boxes?" she asked apprehensively as her lanky, sandy-haired young man bounded up the steps. Dean grinned. "Don't you know, little girl, that curiosity once killed a cat?" He was close to her now, and Page 258 Janie felt his arm come around her ~ tight. For a delicious moment she forgot everything but the dear nearness of this man who was going to be hers, hers completely. Finally, though, she lifted her head and looked over his shoulder. "But, really, Dean, what is all that stuff? I thought we'd brought everything except the wedding presents over here this morning." "It's boxes of my own things Mother just sent on from Sacramento,' Dean explained. "She's had 'em stored in the attic ever since I left home." He chuckled. "I'll bet she's glad to be able to palm 'em off on you." "Things?" Janie echoed blankly. "Honey, you may not know it, but you're marrying a pack rat," Dean called back cheerfully as he disappeared down the stairs to the trailer. As Janie watched in bewilderment, he came staggering back up with a huge cardboard carton. Setting it down with a thud that made the floor lamp dance, he said, "I know right where to put this load. Thought of it when the landlady was showing us the apartment." He reached down and took hold of the handles of a large flat drawer in the bottom of the studio couch. "She said that place was for blanket storage," Janie reminded him gently. She didn't know exactly what was in that box, but it certainly wasn't bedding. "Blankets?" Dean muttered THE DAY BEFORE THE WEDDING vaguely. "Oh, yes, we'll put 'em somewhere. But, look what a great place this will be for our prize specimens!" He swept open the drawer and began depositing in it the contents of the box. "Rocks!" Janie breathed. EAN sat back on his heels and smiled. "I suppose you might call them that, if you didn't know anything about them," he conceded tolerantly. "Actually, they're the cream of my mineral collection." "And all those other boxes?' Janie's eyebrows were rising higher by the second. "Oh, other hobby stuff. Boy, itll be fun to get back to 'em," Dean answered enthusiastically. Janie stared at this man whom she had thought she knew so well. "I didn't realize you had all these interests," she said slowly. "The truth is,' Dean laughed, shutting the rock drawer with a slam, "since I came here to Bakersheld six months ago, I've been so busy trying to add you to my collection that I haven't had time for any of my hobbies." Janie frowned. So she was just his newest hobby, was she? "If you're worrying about where to put the blankets," Dean said, "I've got just the solution." He ran out of the room. A couple of minutes later there was a great thumping and bumping on the stairs and he reappeared, dragging his wardrobe trunk into the apartment. "We can put this in the bedroom closet and use it for a storage chest," he puffed. "Matter of fact, I don't think there'll be room for it in the garage 259 anyway, after I get my work bench installed." "That huge thing won't fit in there," Janie wailed. "Sure it will," Dean said con: fidently.. ""Let's see." He strode into the bedroom and wrenched open the closet door. "It'll fit if you put this thing somewhere else," he announced, backing out with a bulging full-length garment bag. "But those are my winter coats!" "Well, chuck 'em in the trunk, along with a lot of other things." "This bag has already been mothproofed," Janie protested, with the vehemence of a person who's beginning to feel pushed around. For a moment Dean looked baffled. 'Then he plopped the bag on the couch and put his arms around her. "This housekeeping business is pretty complicated, isn't it?" he teased fondly. "But, honey, together, we can lick any problem in the world." He gave her a quick hug and started out of the room. "I'm going down to get the rest of the boxes," he called back. "Why don't you take the coats back to your mother's for awhile? It'll be months before you'll need 'em." "Men!" Janie groaned. For the first time since about the age of twelve, she felt a sweeping exasperation for the whole male sex. HEN Dean came back into the room she took a deep breath. "Let's finish up the kitchen," she said doggedly, moving over toward a carton of pans. "Can you carry this last box of stuff out there?' "Sure thing," Dan agreed. He picked up the box with one hand and pushed open the swinging door 260 with the other. "Say," he exclaimed as he stared around the bright, yellow-walled room. "I can keep my photo-developing gear in this top cupboard. With running water and all,' he turned on the tap, "the kitchen will do for a dark room!" Janie smiled, a frigid, set smile which should have frozen the dripping water into an icicle. "There's always the chance," she said acidly, "that I might open a can of Hypo for supper some night." "No, you won't," Dean answered seriously. "Because I'm going to show you what all the stuff is, and how to use it. It'll be fun having an assistant." He lifted an eyebrow and grinned at her. "Interesting possibilities here — two people like us in a dark room together." He started towards her. "Oh, go away!" Janie burst out crossly. She could feel the tears coming into her eyes. Dean was still standing close to her, a puzzled expression on his face. "Janie " he began uncertainly. "IT don't want to know how to develop pictures," Janie almost shouted. "I don't even know whether I want to." She stopped, horrified at what she'd been about to say. Now she was sure she was going to cry. It would have been such a comfort to lay her head against Dean's solid shoulder and have it out. But, no, she couldn't very well do that when he was the cause of it. "Tm all mixed up," she finished lamely. "Just leave me alone." "All right, Janie," Dean said quietly. "I know you're tired. I'll RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 go clean up the living room." He went out, letting the door swing shut after him with a definite ph-lupp. Through her tears, Janie stared. Up at the high cupboard. "It'll be fun having an assistant," she echoed under her breath. She saw herself mixing his Hypo for him, dusting his rocks, spending lonely hours upstairs while he banged around at his work bench in the garage below. Perhaps he's getting married just so he'll have a place to park his junk, she thought wildly. Right then and there she knew she had to have it out with him. She gave the swinging door a violent push. It gave an inch or two and then refused to budge. She pushed harder, to no avail. "Dean," she called in a panic. "This door — it won't open." "Wait a minute," Dean answered soothingly from the other side. "Guess I put one too many under the rug here." She heard a shuffling noise. "Now try it," he told her. ANIE gave a determined push and practically fell into the living room. Dean was down on his hands and knees rolling up a brightly colored sheet of heavy paper. "One too many what?" Janie exploded. "Maps," Dean said briefly. "This one's of Central Europe, with boundaries as they were in 1870. Temporarily, we can store them flat under the rugs." "Of all the crazy things.' "Mom had wall-to-wall carpeting all over the house," Dean went on > THE DAY BEFORE THE WEDDING disgustedly. "So I had to keep my maps folded up. But here in our own place," his face brightened, "well keep things the way they should be kept." He crawled over to the other side of the rug. "Maybe I can get this one under this side," he muttered. Things the way they should be kept! Janie, breathing hard, looked over at the blanket drawer full of rocks, through the open bedroom door at the big black trunk jammed into the closet, and then down at the bulging rug. Suddenly, staring at the floor, her eyes focused on the front. Page of an old newspaper in which one of the maps had been wrapped. "Playboy Sued for Divorce," the headlines screamed. Feeling, at this moment, an uncomfortably personal interest in marital problems, she leaned over to read the finer type. "Out every night," the article went on. "Returning home in the wee hours. No interests at home, although he gave his wife his complete and devoted attention at first." 261 Janie stopped reading and slowly straightened up. She looked over at Dean, still busily fussing with that map. She tried to visualize him bored with life, going out on the town for excitement. The picture just wouldn't come into focus. All she could see was her husband happily puttering around with some prints in a blacked-out kitchen — and, yes, Janie, herself, handing him the Hypo. She laughed shakily. Dean looked over at her. "It does seem kind of silly, stuffing the maps under here," he conceded. "But it won't be for long, honey. We have a lot of cozy evenings coming up; we'll get around to framing them soon. All right?" He smiled beseechingly. All at once Janie felt the panic in her being washed away by a warm, enveloping wave of tolerance and tenderness. She walked quickly across the room to Dean and dropped down beside him. "Yes, darling," she said happily, as his arms opened to receive her, "everything's all right." > She Kingbird Ethel Jacobson His court is the orchard on the hill, His throne is a peach-tree bough; A ruby winks from the sable crown That graces his royal brow. In robes of velvet, ermine-trimmed, He watches with lively eye Over his feathered colony, Watches the wide blue sky That no marauding hawk or crow May swoop with threatening wing "While a small bird sits on a peach-tree bough, A guardian and a king! Willard Luce MONTEZUMA WELL, ARIZONA _ Alternate 89 Willard Luce and Prescott, Arizona, Alternate 89 presents interesting scenery, including colorful Oak Creek Canyon, three important Indian ruins — Montezuma Well, Montezuma Castle, and 'Tuzigoot— the mining town of Jerome, and Granite Dells. Alternate 89 has certain disadvantages, as much of it is through low country, which is blistering hot in summer; and a lot of it is mountainous, with steep grades and sharp Page 262 R ana Pees between Flagstaff curves, making it a slow road. Flagstaff is in high, big-timber country, and the first thirteen and a half miles of alternate 89 wind through huge growths of Ponderosa, Douglas fir, and quaking aspen. Then the road comes to Lookout Point, 2000 feet above Oak Creek. On both sides, the walls of Oak Creek Canyon are timber covered with the white and red of the Coconino sandstone showing through the deep green of the timber. Far below, Oak Creek and the highway ALTERNATE 89 become lost beneath the dense covering of pine, sycamore, and aspen. Sedona, located at the mouth of Oak Creek Canyon, is a tourist and movie production center. Here the sandstone formations are more individualistic, more easily photographed and more spectacular. Seventeen miles from Sedona a paved road leaves Alternate 80, taking you to the two sections of Montezuma Castle National Monument. Montezuma Well looks like a miniature volcanic crater with a small lake inside. Around the ledge between the top of the crater and the water, are several cliff dwellings. Willard Luce 263 Montezuma Well is actually a spring which pours out 1,000 gallons of water every minute. 'Today, even as 500 years ago, the water is used for irrigation. By the museum, ancient irrigation ditches are coated with lime. Montezuma Castle is well preserved and beautifully located high up on the cream and _ buff-colored limestone ledge facing Beaver Creek. Back on Alternate 89, your next stop will be at 'Tuzigoot, a pueblolike fort of 110 rooms. 'Tuzigoot faces the Verde River from a hill a few miles south of Clarkdale. Six miles and 1100 feet up MinTUZIGOOT NATIONAL MONUMENT NEAR CLARKDALE, ARIZONA Willard Luce GOVERNOR'S HOUSE, PIONEER SQUARE, PRESCOTT, ARIZONA Prescott was the first territorial capital of Arizona. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 The Governor's House was built in 1864. To the right is a corner of the Sharlot Hall Museum. In the foreground are Indian and pioneer grindstones and millstones. Gus Mountain from Clarkdale is Jerome, now advertised as Arizona's newest ghost town. A quarter of a century ago it boasted a population of 15,000; today there are only a few hundred people left. Since 1925 Jerome has been slipping down Mingus Mountain at the rate of about four and a half inches per year. Huge cracks have appeared in the earth, and small buildings have been condemned and torn down. From Jerome, Alternate 89 climbs on up through the different zones of plant life, until it finally reaches big timber again, coming to an elevation of 7,029. From here the highway drops once more. It crosses Chino Valley and rejoins U. S. 89 at Granite Dells. The Dells is a jumble of granite boulders and mounds, scrambled up in a haphazard manner to form a gigantic rock garden. Huge shade trees line Granite Creek and the man-made pools which are used for boating, fishing, and swimming. Beneath the trees are picnicking tables. You are now back on U. S. 89. Whichever way you are going, it is interesting to drive the six miles southward to Prescott, first territorial capital of Arizona. ALTERNATE 89 Here at Pioneer Square is the old Governor's House, a long structure built in 1864, now a museum housing a collection of household utensils, firearms, and furniture. Back of the Governor's House is the Sharlot Hall Museum, which houses a library of pioneer printed material. 265 Two log cabins stand on Pioneer Square, one a replica of a pioneer home, the other, a reproduction of the first cabin in Prescott. Well, there it is, Alternate 89, an interest filled ninety-two miles— plus a little extra for side trips. Happiness Now Wilma Boyle Bunker I aoe many of us are guilty of postponing our happiness until the future. Too many of us say, ""Tomorrow I will do some of the things I would like to do today." If we are ever to enjoy life, now is the time, not tomorrow, not next year, nor in some future life.... Today should be our most wonderful day. We can find time to read; we can study music; we can take the children on a picnic or try out a new recipe; we can try to learn to mold a clay ballerina or write a sonnet. Are we so practical that we forget to dream? Are we so absorbed in making a living or running a home or saving a dollar that we cease to invest in our dreams? It is important that we plan for the days to come, that we prepare as best we can for the future, but if we wait to enjoy life until we think everything is in order, we may find it is too late. Time has struck off yesterday; tomorrow as yet does not exist; we are sure only of today, so let us find our happiness now, this day, this hour. Sacred Ground Ida Isaacson Sacred, gull-laden land, With breath of mint and grass. What shall I leave thee, When I pass? My footfall is so light, Will no trace or print be found? Tell those who follow after That I loved this sacred ground. Vernessa M. Nagle ASPENS, NEAR THE SAN FRANCISCO PEAKS, ARIZONA She Aspen Grove Vernessa Miller Nagle A' aspen grove in spring symbolizes the eternal pattern of rebirth. As bare, angular limbs show green under dark bark, the prophecy of life renewed is manifest. Dignity in adaptation is signified in an aspen grove in summer. Here is yielding, yet purposeful adjustment, a reaching for the heights. Pliant leaves catching the breeze, never still on the quietest of summer days, symbolize life's constant unrest, as they become attuned with a throbbing world. Life's fruition is seen in the blending of riotous coloring of an aspen grove in fall. Flaming beauty represents achievement crowned in glory. Lavish with their gifts, aspen trees of burnished hues toss riotous grandeur in a gesture of accomplishment. Stripped of rampant beauty, there remains dignity of age in a winter aspen grove. Beauty is found in silver filigree. Here is resignation without compromise. Unbowed, with roots secure, life's benediction comes in the peace and quiet of winter's sunset hour. Page 266 There Is Still Time CHAPTER 3 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Elizabeth Anderson is disturbed by a strange dream in which she sees herself and her friends walking on crutches. She tells the dream to Brent, her husband, and explains to him _ that something is. Lacking in their family — a spiritual oneness. Brent, however, is so interested in making money that he does not wish to understand Elizabeth's plea. Brent receives a letter from his brother David requesting that Brent take their mother into his home. — Elizabeth I surprises her husband and children by insisting that Grandmother Anderson is welcome to come and live with them, but after the Grandmother arrives, Elizabeth realizes that living with her will not be easy. RANDMA Anderson was not GG to be awed by the size of the house, nor the swimming pool. "Seems to me some people could make better use of their money," she sniffed. I She met Matilda head up, flags flying. Elizabeth shuddered at the covert measuring glance that passed between the two. Grandma Anderson sniffed the air. "Apple pie as I live and breathe.' She took a deeper breath, and triumph lighted her face. "Too much cinnamon." Elizabeth flung herself into the breach. "Just the way I like apple pie." "There's them as like apple pie spicy, and there's them as likes apple pie baby like," said Matilda gently. "Next time I'll bake: one special, just for you." Elizabeth shot her a glance of gratitude and turned Grandma. Anderson to the stairs. In the room that was to be hers, Grandma Anderson was abruptly silent. She touched the satin headboard of the bed with. Gentle hands, "Pretty, isn't it?"" She sat down in the little padded rocking chair and closed her eyes. "You have your own private balcony," Elizabeth said. She flung open the French doors. "You can watch it get morning from your bed.", Grandma Anderson's eyes flew open. "Spend the morning in bed! Not I, let me tell you. I've spent my whole life getting up at five, and I don't expect to change for anyone.". "Brent likes to sleep until seven," Elizabeth interpolated gently. "Picked up that lazy habit since his marriage. Believe me, when he was home with me, he was up at five just like the rest of us. I remember how he hated it... One time " "Seven," repeated Elizabeth firmly. "Now, this is your castle. No one can'come in at all, except with your permission." ".-, So I told him then, 'Son,' I said, 'as long as you are under my roof..." She stopped short, digested her own words, gave Elizabeth a sudden, rueful, understanding smile.. "Seven, it is." Elizabeth smiled back. "Would you like to rest until lunch time, Page 267 268 and then we'll get after those flowers?" "Mind you don't cut them now. Seems to me I remember once you cut flowers and didn't put them right into water." "Tl wait," said Elizabeth meekly, and closed the door. She thought of the evening ahead and apprehension gripped her. HE dinner had been arranged for twelve people. Grandma Anderson's coming made it thirteen. Brent fussed and worried about this until Elizabeth solved the situation by having Elaine join them. Elaine was sulky about it, dreading the boredom of older people. Grandma Anderson came down just as the guests were arriving. She looked small and frail and quaint in the voile dress with its crocheted collar and the big broach at her throat. She beamed on each new guest and shook hands heartily. "Pleased to meet you, Mr. Ames." She peered up into his flushed, heavy face. "You certainly remind me of a man back home... Olaf Swenson, the butcher." "Mother!" Brent's voice was sharp. He glared at Elizabeth. Elizabeth pretended not to notice. She hurried the women away to dispose of their wraps. When she returned, Grandma Anderson was happily regaling the still purple Mr. Ames with the hardships of life in a small town in the early nineteen hundreds. Mr. Ames fidgeted. Brent looked ill. Elizabeth heard her own voice getting edgy as she tried to smooth over one illtimed remark after another of Brent's mother. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 The evening finally ended. Upstairs in their bedroom, Brent jerked off his tie savagely. "That settles it. That definitely settles it. A rest home. I'll go find one tomorrow." "No." Elizabeth leaned her elbows on her dressing table, rested her face in her palms. "You didn't see her eyes this morning when she saw her room, like a child's on Christmas. We can't do it." She brushed her hair furiously. "I shared her opinion of Mr. Ames." She turned to Brent. "TI like your mother, Brent. She's like a nice cold wind from Beaver blowing away a lot of dust." Brent threw down his shirt. "She isn't your mother. She's mine." "She's ours. She is my responsibility just as much as she is yours. Oh, Brent, it's just because we haven't learned how to handle the situation. If we're wise we'll settle it without sending her away. That's defeat." "We can't ask anyone here." "Tl think of some way, one or two nights a week, she might prefer a movie with the twins or Elaine." "She'll want to go with us everywhere." "TIL take her with me and the children." "Matilda will quit." "Let her." Elizabeth looked at Brent. He was in the wrong and he knew it, and he was trying furiously to push her into a corner. Helplessness swept her. Their lives seemed to get more tangled and complicated every day. "What's changing you?" Brent demanded. "You never used to be like this." THERE IS STILL TIME She went to the window, looked out into the night. "Remember the fun we had when we were youngsters, going to Church all the time. You used to be a whiz in basketball. Remember?" Brent came to stand beside her. "Donna told me about the Bible reading and the prayers. I think that's fine, Eliza. A very good idea." She rubbed her face against his shoulder. "It's making such a difference. We used to have. Of course, some mornings they seem bored to tears, but again on another day they want to talk about things for hours." She smiled at him. "Are you ready to join us, Brent? It would make us very happy, me especially." Brent turned away. "I had Church rammed down my throat when I was a kid." "We won't ram anything into you, Brent." He shrugged restlessly. "I've got too much on my mind. It's all right for you and the kids. Help yourselves. But count me out." He smiled warmly. "Don't get me wrong. I believe in things. Let's leave it at that." Against her own better judgment, Elizabeth pressed him. "It's so late, Brent. We've wasted so much time. It takes time, believe me, to grow into the kind of person he would have us be." He flung back the covers and slipped into bed. "I'm worn out. We'll continue this discussion next Michaelmas, how about it?" He turned on his stomach. "I''ll look for a rest home in the morning." Elizabeth turned back to the window, snapping off the lamp on her There's more unity than 269 way. The gentle darkness fell around her, hiding her face, her closed eyes, and the tense moving of her lips. Please, let there be some way to keep Grandma Anderson. She needs more than room, more than food, she needs her own around her, to be a part of living. LIZABETH was awakened at two in the morning by the sound of moaning from Grandma Anderson's room. She rose and ran across the hall. "It's my chest," Grandma Anderson panted. "Hurts something awful... Something I ate... That apple pie... Too spicy." "Shh." Elizabeth tried to stop the steady flow of words. She was terrified by the whiteness of Grandma Anderson's face and the blueness of her lips and eyelids. She hurried downstairs and called the doctor, brought up warm water and soda, woke Brent. The doctor came after an interminable wait. Elizabeth watched tensely as he listened, probed, listened again, his face calm, but his movements hurried as he pressed a needle into Grandma Anderson's arm. After a long time he snapped his bag shut, picked it up and motioned Elizabeth and Brent out of the room. They followed him downstairs. "She's a very old, little lady," he said, bluntly, "with a heart that should have failed her a long time ago. Keep her happy, keep her mind occupied." He looked at Elizabeth searchingly. "Right now she's going to need nursing, careful, cheerful nursing. Nurses are rather 270 scarce, but perhaps I can find one for you." "T can do it," Elizabeth said firmly. "The children will help me. Ill do the best job I can." After Brent had seen the doctor to the door he came back to stand before Elizabeth. "Call me any name you like," he said heavily, "I'll admit I'd fit into any of them." "You just didn't understand, Brent. You just didn't think." He came to her, buried his face in her hair. "Sometimes I feel that I'm a thousand miles from my base. Help me find my way back." "You'll find it, Brent. We all will, if we try hard enough." He tightened his grip on her. "It's going to be rough on you. She'll make an exacting invalid." "So it's rough," Elizabeth smiled ruefully. "I'm beginning to believe that a smooth passage isn't always the best... Many storms make a good sailor." "You made that up," he accused her. She laughed, "Perhaps I'm going to grow old like other ladies I've seen and bring out my conclusions like mints out of a pocketbook." "Pop them into people's minds?" He held her closer. "You're funny and sweet, and I don't know which is the mostest, as Donna would say." She rested against him for a moment, glad for his stocky strength. "Td better run up and start working at my job." Grandma Anderson opened heavy eyes, the drugs were taking effect. "I knew it. 'The minute I laid eyes on this little room I knew I'd never get to stay. First I thought you'd RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 send me away, like David's wife... But I never figured on this." Elizabeth sat in the little rocker. "You're going to have this little room until you can't stand the sight of it. It's your room, as long as you - want it. You're part of our family like Donna is part, or Johnny, or Jennie." "Part of your family?" Grandma Anderson closed her eyes on a deep breath. "I haven't felt part of a family since my husband Jim died." Her mouth twisted. "Not that some of it isn't my fault. I have the finest family." I was a long, bitter battle. There were nights when Elizabeth, sitting in the rocker in the small hours of the night, felt death, like fog creep icily through the room. Grandma Anderson was impatient and querulous. "I just don't see why the doctor can't do something for me. No doctor like Doctor Davidson in Beaver. Is it time for my medicine? I declare, if I don't remind you every minute, you ll up and forget." "It won't be time for your medicine for another hour, try to sleep." "In this bed! It's too soft one minute too hard the next, not enough room. Slept all my life in a double bed." On and on it went. Elaine was the one who became almost a right hand to Ehzabeth. Elaine, who, tender and _ gentle, helped to bathe the wasted, frail body, who brought pretty trays to tempt Grandma Anderson's appetite, who came in at odd hours of the night to insist that Elizabeth get sleep. THERE IS STILL TIME Elizabeth dared not unburden the strain and the weariness on Brent. He had lost the bid for the tract he had set his heart on building. He was morose, easily infuriated. She endured alone. The one bright moment in the day was the hour after breakfast when Brent had gone and the children, ready for school, knelt with her in prayer. 'There was intensity in their petitions. They had all fallen deeply in love with Grandma Anderson. Sometimes Elizabeth read a psalm that fell like balm on all their hearts. Sometimes she read from Proverbs, and they eyed each other uneasily as the piercing truths touched a tender spot. They began to go to Sunday School. Elizabeth found herself looking forward to Sunday mornings, to the joy that would sweep over her when she saw her children in their places, to the nostalgia when she heard her children sing- 271 ing the songs she had loved as a child. Sacrament services began to be a part of their lives. 'The children made friends easily. Elaine was soon the center of admiring boys and girls, but Elizabeth felt herself utterly alone. She missed Brent so much on these Sunday evenings that she felt he might well be in Singapore or Egypt, for the gulf between them and the pain of it. But he would have none of it. "I don't have the time, Elizabeth. I'm having rough going with that bid I lost and a few other things." "But we have enough." "There's never enough. 'There's always a quota to exceed or keep even with, if a man wants to get ahead." She fled from his pride to the childish murmurings of Donna or to the twins' world of Indians, cowboys, and ships from outer space. (To be continued ) April -Singered Eva Willes Wangsgaard For centuries, the spindrift and the sand Possessed the beach, worn bare beneath the sky, Parched by incessant sun, a desert land Alone with breakers and the curlew's cry. Then, someone, April-fingered, found a moss That clung to creeping sand and held it still Inured to drought and restless waves that toss Their spume in anger at the weather's will. Now beauty lies in robes that dawn might wear; Pink-petaled loveliness erased the dun. First green and then a million blooms were there And iridescent wings reflecting sun. Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents.