[Vol43 | April 1956 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: To You | Author: Fockner]
[To You, Beloved Lois E. Fockner]

"Honey, you may not know it, but you're marrying a pack rat," Dean called back cheerfully as he disappeared down the stairs to the trailer. As Janie watched in bewilderment, he came staggering back up with a huge cardboard carton. Setting it down with a thud that made the floor lamp dance, he said, "I know right where to put this load. Thought of it when the landlady was showing us the apartment." He reached down and took hold of the handles of a large flat drawer in the bottom of the studio couch. "She said that place was for blanket storage," Janie reminded him gently. She didn't know exactly what was in that box, but it certainly wasn't bedding. "Blankets?" Dean muttered THE DAY BEFORE THE WEDDING vaguely. "Oh, yes, we'll put 'em somewhere. But, look what a great place this will be for our prize specimens!" He swept open the drawer and began depositing in it the contents of the box. "Rocks!" Janie breathed. EAN sat back on his heels and smiled. "I suppose you might call them that, if you didn't know anything about them," he conceded tolerantly. "Actually, they're the cream of my mineral collection." "And all those other boxes?' Janie's eyebrows were rising higher by the second. "Oh, other hobby stuff. Boy, itll be fun to get back to 'em," Dean answered enthusiastically. Janie stared at this man whom she had thought she knew so well. "I didn't realize you had all these interests," she said slowly. "The truth is,' Dean laughed, shutting the rock drawer with a slam, "since I came here to Bakersheld six months ago, I've been so busy trying to add you to my collection that I haven't had time for any of my hobbies." Janie frowned. So she was just his newest hobby, was she? "If you're worrying about where to put the blankets," Dean said, "I've got just the solution." He ran out of the room. A couple of minutes later there was a great thumping and bumping on the stairs and he reappeared, dragging his wardrobe trunk into the apartment. "We can put this in the bedroom closet and use it for a storage chest," he puffed. "Matter of fact, I don't think there'll be room for it in the garage 259 anyway, after I get my work bench installed." "That huge thing won't fit in there," Janie wailed. "Sure it will," Dean said con: fidently.. ""Let's see." He strode into the bedroom and wrenched open the closet door. "It'll fit if you put this thing somewhere else," he announced, backing out with a bulging full-length garment bag. "But those are my winter coats!" "Well, chuck 'em in the trunk, along with a lot of other things." "This bag has already been mothproofed," Janie protested, with the vehemence of a person who's beginning to feel pushed around. For a moment Dean looked baffled. 'Then he plopped the bag on the couch and put his arms around her. "This housekeeping business is pretty complicated, isn't it?" he teased fondly. "But, honey, together, we can lick any problem in the world." He gave her a quick hug and started out of the room. "I'm going down to get the rest of the boxes," he called back. "Why don't you take the coats back to your mother's for awhile? It'll be months before you'll need 'em." "Men!" Janie groaned. For the first time since about the age of twelve, she felt a sweeping exasperation for the whole male sex. HEN Dean came back into the room she took a deep breath. "Let's finish up the kitchen," she said doggedly, moving over toward a carton of pans. "Can you carry this last box of stuff out there?' "Sure thing," Dan agreed. He picked up the box with one hand and pushed open the swinging door 260 with the other. "Say," he exclaimed as he stared around the bright, yellow-walled room. "I can keep my photo-developing gear in this top cupboard. With running water and all,' he turned on the tap, "the kitchen will do for a dark room!" Janie smiled, a frigid, set smile which should have frozen the dripping water into an icicle. "There's always the chance," she said acidly, "that I might open a can of Hypo for supper some night." "No, you won't," Dean answered seriously. "Because I'm going to show you what all the stuff is, and how to use it.