[Vol43 | April 1956 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: A | Author: Anderson]
[A Temple Will Be Built Mabel L. Anderson]

"All right, Janie," Dean said quietly. "I know you're tired. I'll RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 go clean up the living room." He went out, letting the door swing shut after him with a definite ph-lupp. Through her tears, Janie stared. Up at the high cupboard. "It'll be fun having an assistant," she echoed under her breath. She saw herself mixing his Hypo for him, dusting his rocks, spending lonely hours upstairs while he banged around at his work bench in the garage below. Perhaps he's getting married just so he'll have a place to park his junk, she thought wildly. Right then and there she knew she had to have it out with him. She gave the swinging door a violent push. It gave an inch or two and then refused to budge. She pushed harder, to no avail. "Dean," she called in a panic. "This door — it won't open." "Wait a minute," Dean answered soothingly from the other side. "Guess I put one too many under the rug here." She heard a shuffling noise. "Now try it," he told her. ANIE gave a determined push and practically fell into the living room. Dean was down on his hands and knees rolling up a brightly colored sheet of heavy paper. "One too many what?" Janie exploded. "Maps," Dean said briefly. "This one's of Central Europe, with boundaries as they were in 1870. Temporarily, we can store them flat under the rugs." "Of all the crazy things.' "Mom had wall-to-wall carpeting all over the house," Dean went on > THE DAY BEFORE THE WEDDING disgustedly. "So I had to keep my maps folded up. But here in our own place," his face brightened, "well keep things the way they should be kept." He crawled over to the other side of the rug. "Maybe I can get this one under this side," he muttered. Things the way they should be kept! Janie, breathing hard, looked over at the blanket drawer full of rocks, through the open bedroom door at the big black trunk jammed into the closet, and then down at the bulging rug. Suddenly, staring at the floor, her eyes focused on the front. Page of an old newspaper in which one of the maps had been wrapped. "Playboy Sued for Divorce," the headlines screamed. Feeling, at this moment, an uncomfortably personal interest in marital problems, she leaned over to read the finer type. "Out every night," the article went on. "Returning home in the wee hours. No interests at home, although he gave his wife his complete and devoted attention at first." 261 Janie stopped reading and slowly straightened up.

A Temple Will Be Built Mabel L. Anderson to our God" — those words spoken by a prophet so long ago, came solemnly to my mind as I stood on the sacred ground of Newchapel in Surrey, England. The one "must" on my trip to the British Isles had been to see the temple site. Following the directions of an elder at the Church headquarters on Nightingale Lane in London, we boarded a comfortable British coach just a few steps from the Church door. In planning the things to see and the places to go, I had studied maps of every county and part of England. But how colorless a road map can be! Just a line to try to tell of those lovely British roads that amble through the countryside as though they, too, were enjoying the delightful and varied scenery through which they were passing, making a turn to avoid a cottage garden or to show one a particularly attractive view of rolling pastures and sylvan glades; just a dot to indicate a picturesque old town or quaint village, or an ancient castle or the spires of a grand cathedral. A few minutes ride took us through some of the busy environs of London, then out into the peaceful country, with its soft landscapes, having a pastoral charm of its own, historical as it is beautiful. Through this lovely countryside marched the invaders of Britain from before Julius Caesar's time up to the time of William the Conqueror — Romans, Danes, and Normans, and 66 H ERE we will build a temple the whole area abounds in many well-preserved monuments of those days. Not quite an hour's ride brought us to the crossroads of the LondonLingfield road, where we stopped. A few steps took us to one of the most beautiful spots it has been my privilege to see. Here, in this unspoiled English countryside, the cornerstone will soon be laid for the building of the first temple in England — that "tight little island," as Shakespeare said, "bound in with the triumphant sea," that has furnished so many stalwarts to our Church, just 118 years after the gospel was first brought there. A little pond just outside the high board fence first attracted my eye and my camera. Here, among pond lilies, a mother duck and her little ducklings were having a swim. Around the grassy fringe of the pond were flowers and shrubs, while in the background were magnificent trees and the lichened tile roof of the mansion. A gate admitted us to the grounds of the estate at Newchapel. It was such a calm and lovely spot. First, the manor house built in the dignity of Elizabethan _ half-timbered style. 'This gracious mansion, set amid rolling acres and mellow parkland, is something which will long remain in the memory of those of us who cherish our visit there. Missionaries stationed at Newchapel took us through this stately house, with its richly paneled walls and parquetry floors. Page 235 236 Mabel L. Anderson RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 NEWCHAPEL, SURREY, ENGLAND As it is approached from the road We first entered a large hall which had a beautiful stairway leading to the balcony and floors above. At one side, a drawing room with a small gallery, we were told, would undoubtedly be the chapel for the branch; then through the library, dining rooms, various sitting rooms, kitchens, and butlers' pantries; upstairs to the many bedrooms, and bathrooms (some so large they even had fireplaces in them). 'The OldWorld charm and gracious character of this house made me think of some words of Charles Lamb: I do not know a pleasure more affecting than to range at will over the deserted apartments of some fine old family mansion. The traces of extinct grandeur admit of a better passion than envy, and contemplations on the great and good whom we fancy in succession to have been its inhabitants, weave for us illusions incompatible with the battles of modern occupancy. And it is certainly true that the storied history of Britain is largely written on the mellow walls of its country houses, for in them many important events have taken place; within their walls have gathered many people who have walked the pages of history. And, as I wandered from room to room, I, for one, was grateful that this house would be preserved. ROM the windows of the second and third floors we had a good view of the lovely grounds that stretched far in the distance. 'Thirtyfour acres, we were told, comprise the estate. Back of the house was a large carriage house now being used as headquarters of the English geneological department of the Church. The house is surrounded by extensive and venerable lawns, parklands, and fine trees, orchards, pad- A TEMPLE WILL BE BUILT docks, and farms in the distance. Glorious masses of rhododendron in shades of rose and purple were breath-taking in their beauty. 'The rain had just stopped, and the shimmering silk of the leaves was such a lush and verdant green it seemed the Master Painter must have just finished the painting. Abundant, brilliant, sweet - smelling flowers made the air heady with their perfume, and gave more color to the scene. Among the clipped yew and boxwood hedges we wandered to the tennis court, near which, we were told, was the spot which had been dedicated for the building of the temple. We felt we were indeed walking on holy ground. 'The whole place gave one a feeling of peace and serenity that has a special appeal to those who live in this age when serenity is so rare. In the quiet walks around the grounds one could indeed feel that here he might really "be still and know that I am God." Nowhere else, that I know of, is it so easy to obtain the illusion of isolation as in those deep cool paths 237 and among the luxuriant sea of foliage of that tranquil countryside, only about thirty miles from London. Newchapel is in the southeast corner of Surrey, near to the pretty village of Lingfield, and just a few miles from the busy market town of East Grinstead, itself a blend of the old and new, with an interesting history, many old traditions, and rich in seventeenth-century-timbered houses. In the vicinity are quaint villages and modern suburbs where charming cottages flaunt gay front gardens, typically British. Across this region, many centuries ago, there existed a great forest, now gone except for bits of it remaining in the lovely small woods, and evident in the stately trees seen everywhere. How well the leaders of our Church chose the location to build a house of the Lord! Next time I go to England, I shall again take the road leading south from London to the sea, and there at Newchapel, I hope to thrill at the stately spires of a Latter-day Saint temple silhouetted against an English sky. <> Now Spring