FAITH, HOPE AND CHARITY.

	This subject is most beautifully illustrated
by the angel Moroni, or prophet as you may
choose to call him. I will say, however, it was
Moroni who had charge of the records and
gave them to the prophet Joseph Smith. And
I believe it to be the same one whose words
are recorded here.
	Moroni says "if you have not faith in Christ
then ye are not fit to be numbered among the
people of His church. And again my beloved
brethren I would speak unto you concerning
hope.
	"How is it that ye can attain unto faith, save
ye shall have hope? And what is it that ye 
shall hope for? Behold I say unto you, that
ye shall hope, through the atonement of  Christ
and the power of His resurection, to be raised
unto life eternal."
	"And this because of your faith in Him
according to the promise; wherefore; if a man
have faith, he must needs have hope."
	"And again I say unto you, he can not have
faith and hope save he shall be meek and lowly
of heart; if so his faith and hope is vain; for
none are acceptable before God, save the meek
and lowly of heart, and confesses, by the power
of the Holy Ghost, that Jesus is the Christ, he
must needs have charity; for if he have not
charity he is nothing; wherefore he must needs
have charity.
	"Charity suffereth long, and is kind, and
envieth not, is not puffed up, seeketh not her
own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil,
and rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in 
the truth; beareth all things, believeth all
things, hopeth all things, endureth all things;
wherefore, my beloved brethren, if ye have
not charity ye are nothing, for charity never
faileth."
	"Wherefore cleave unto charity which is the 
greatest gift of all, for all things must fail;
but charity is the pure love of Christ, and it
endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed
of it at the last day, it shall be well with
them."
	"Wherefore my beloved brethren pray unto 
the Father with all the energy of your heart,
that ye may be filled with this love which he
hath bestowed upon all who are true followers
of His Son Jesus Christ, that ye may become
sons of God, that when He shall appear we
shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as He
is, that we may have this hope, that we may be
purified even as he is pure. Amen."
	Book of Mormon page 556, Sec. 7, begining
at the 4th verse.
	It seems that St. Paul and Moroni see this
subject alike; which they would not fail to do,
both being in the possession of the same
spirit.
							M. E. K.


