RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The second Annual Conference of the Relief
Society was held Tuesday, April 7, 1891, in the
large Tabernacle in this city Pres. Zina D. H.
Young presiding; Counselors B. W. Smith and
J. S. Richards were present on the stand also the
Treasurer M. I. Horne, Cor. Sec. E. B. Wells
Assistant Sec. Dr. R. B. Pratt and Pres. E. S.
Taylor of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	Meeting opened with sining, “Lord we come
before thee now, &c.” Prayer by Mrs. Susan
Grant, continued by singing “Now let us rejoice
in the day of salvation.”
	Pres. Young made the opening address of wel-
come in her usual kindly manner, felt to pray
that our coming together might be profitable to
all, and that union and love and perfect harmony
might prevail; thought if we had brought with us
that heavenly garment, the mantle of charity, that
all would be greatly blest. “The eyes of the
world are upon us, let us set them a good ex-
ample, let us not crave worldly things but be
covetous of the things of God, my heart is full of
blessings for you my dear sisters I know you de-
sire to be fed with the bread of life,”
	Minutes of semi-annual Conference in Oct.
1890 read and accepted. Pres. Mary John re-
ported Utah Stake, Counselor L. M. Hart, Bear
Lake Stake, Counselor Ann C. Woodbury, St.
George Stake; Susanna Briggs of Lyman Town,
reported Bannock Stake, Counselor Elizabeth
B. Mitchell, Uintah Stake, Annie Bird reported
Cassia Stake, and referred to the Fair the sisters
of that Stake had held last fall, which made a
very good showing in various kinds of needle
and fancy-work and almost every thing that wo-
men and children could make or raise; quite a
sum of money had thus been raised to help in
starting their Stake Academy. Counselor Sarah
P. Crosby reported Panguitch Stake; Pres. Mary
A. Hyde, Sanpete Stake.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards, said, “it is a great
comfort to come here and listen to the good
things that have been said today. Last fall I
could not attend our Conference but I prayed for
you, at home we can look to the Lord when we
are about our work, Sister Eliza used to tell us to
go to meeting often, so we would be missed
when we were away. It is in the line of the
work of the Relief Society to wait upon the sick
and the distressed; and we are often detained at
home on account of these duties, but whoever
regrets doing for the poor and sick? We are
not left without the Holy Spirit, even though we
are kept from meeting. The Gospel is our joy,
and we are used to trials; (sometimes I think my
path is a little thorny) and we’ve always had
trials since the days of Nauvoo and some of us
before, I don’t know how much farther back; I
started for Missouri but did not get there was

[Column 2]
stopped on my way.” The speaker then alluded
to the hymns she loved and said she found great
comfort in the singing, referred to the beautiful
hymn “Nearer my God to thee,” and said, “it al-
ways seems to bring us nearer and we feel an
acceptance with Him, we must not forget to pray
and continue to ask the Lord to help us in our
labors. We had an excellent report of our
Society read at the General Conference." Mrs.
Richards then reported briefly and in an interest-
ing manner, her visit to Washington, referring in
terms of praise to the ladies, of the Council and
Convention, and how attentively she had listened
to the many good speeches and addresses that
were given and papers that were read, thought
the majority of the women interested in these
great organizations that were represented there
were working for reform and to elevate humanity
and to bring about a better state of things; com-
mended their energy and wished they had the
Gospel to help them.The speaker had taken great
pleasure in conversing with these ladies in rela-
tion to our position here and the work in our as-
sociations also; they always wanted to hear a
little more,and would say they had been mistaken
in regard to us, there was not much time to con-
verse with them as the meetings occupied nearly
all the time; they inquired if we were not going
to Mexico or the Sandwich Islands, she had in-
formed them we were going to stay, they thought
the Gentiles were crowding us out; they are
anxious to know more about us and by and bye
they will be coming to us. “Let us keep up our
organizations and not vary from the way in which
we have held our meetings and Conferences.
We calculate that our Relief Society will lead
off, it has been organized  forty years and we
don’t expect to be superceded, let us not be dila-
tory but energetic and the Lord will bless all our
efforts, and we must be ever mindful of the sick
and needy.”
	Pres. Young followed with a few remarks, re-
ferred to what had been said of the women of the
world, their labors and aspirations, spoke of the
part they were taking in the World’s Fair; said
we are blessed above all women; blest even
more than words cau express. The prince of
this world is on the alert, let him find no malice
nor unkindness nor hate in us; that beautiful
thought that came to me this morning as I stood
here about the mantle of charity, let us be
clothed with it;” the speaker urged the sisters to
send the children to the Primary and try to en
courage those who labored in these associations;
spoke of the First Presidency and the Apostles
having been invited to attend the Conference,
and that there would likely be some of them
present in the afternoon.
	The Treasurer of the Central Board, Mrs. M.
I. Horne read a report of the money donated from
the several stake organizations of the Relief
Society for representation at the Woman’s
National Council in Washington, and to defray
the expenses of sending delegates.
	Dr. Pratt then read the totals of the statisti-
cal and financial report of the Relief Society.
	Mrs. Richards made some explanation in re-
gard to the means expended at the Council, that
in addition to the fee for admittance, there were
appropriations to be made for different purposes
that were expected of the delegates, &c. Meet-
ing was adjourned until 2 p. m., singing “Praise
God from whom all blessings flow,” benediction
by Counselor B. W. Smith.
			[To be continued.]


