OBITUARIES.

	Died at West Jordan March 6th, 1891 of pneumonia,
Sister Betsy Jenson. The deceased was born Oct. 15th,
1831 in Sweden. She leaves a husband, two sons and 
three daughters to mourn her loss. She was an affection-
ate mother, a kind neighbor and friend, and a faithful
saint of God. She goes to reap the reward of the righteous.
Sister Betsy was chosen teacher in the Relief Society May
4th, 1882, and held that position until Dec, 4th, 1884,
when she was chosen counselor to Sister Louisa Egbert
and held the position until she died.
	May our Heavenly Father comfort the bereaved ones
in their sorrow, and may they acknowledge even in the 
midst of their suffering, that He doeth all things well.
					AGNES CUTLER, in behalf of R. S.
					D. G. Secretary.

	Died at West Jordan, February 19th, 1891, after an ill-
ness of one week with pneumonia, Louisa M. Egbert,
daughter of Robert E. and Margaret Petty, and wife of the
late Samuel Egbert.
	Deceased was born Dec. 27th, 1839, in Tennessee, bap-
tized when eight years of age, came to Utah in 1848, be-
came the wife of Samuel Egbert, March 11th, 1857, and
was the mother of eight children, three sons and five
daughters, all of whom are living.
	Sister Louisa was an earnest worker in the cause of
truth, she became a member of the West Jordan Relief
Society when it was first organized on April 12th, 1868, and
acted as teacher until she was chosen Counselor in 1869.
held that position until Nov. 4 1880, when she was set apart
to fill the office of President, which position she held at the
time of her death, and died as she had lived, a true Latter-
day Saint.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO LOUISA EGBERT.
	Whereas—The Lord in His infinite wisdom has seen fit
to call from our midst on the 19th day of February, 1891,
our beloved President. We the members of the West
Jordan Relief Society do feel to mourn her loss, and feel 
that we have lost a kind friend and wise counselor.
	Resolved—That we do cherish her memory, and that we
do put into practice her wise teachings and emulate her
example, and be more closely united in our society, and
always be ready and willing, as she was, to assist the
poor and needy and to care for the sick and afflicted.
	Resolved—That we do sympathize with her sorrowing
family for the loss of a kind and loving mother, and that
we extend to them a helping hand in this their hour of
trial, and do all in our power to comfort and console them.
And we feel to say, not ours, but the Lord's will be done in 
all things.
	Resolved—That a copy of these resolutions be sent to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT to be printed, and that we send
a copy to her bereaved family and a copy be kept and
written in our minutes, as a record of our beloved Presi-
dent and friend.
			AGNES CUTLER, in behalf of the R. S.
			DELILA GARDNER, Secretary.

	Died at Union, March 1, 1891, Elizabeth J. Mosong
Richardson, from la grippe and other causes. She 
was a faithful and active teacher in our Relief Society since
its organization in 1877, also and Counselor in the Primary
Association, which office she filled with honor and love
though she had no children of her own.
	Deceased was born in Italy, Nov. 3, 1841. She crossed
the plains in Capt. Ellsworth's hand cart company in 1836,
enduring the hardships of the journey to these valleys, her
father dying on the plains, leaving her an orphan.

[column 2]
	Her husband followed her to rest five hours after she
had expired, from pneumonia. Thus they were one in life
and separated only a few moments in death.
	Whereas, we the officers and members of both associa-
tions feel to mourn her loss realizing it is her gain.
	Resolved that we deem it a just tribute to her memory
to say she not only labored for those she loved on earth,
but has done a good work for her honored dead in the
Logan Temple.
	May we imitate her good and noble example and send a
copy of these resolutions to her brother, also to the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT and keep a copy of the same on our
minutes.
		"Dearest sister thou hast left us,
			Here thy loss we deeply feel;
		But 'tis God that hath bereft us,
			He can all our sorrows heal.

		Yet again we hope to meet thee,
			When death's gloomy night has fled,
		Then on earth with joy to greet thee,
			Where no bitter tears are shed."
						ELIZABETH RICHARDS,
						ANN GRIFFITHS,
						HARRIET COX,
						MARY ANN SMART,
						SARAH BURTON,
