		BY S. W. RICHARDS.

	It has been said the three dearest words in
our language are Mother, Home, and Heaven.
Not in view of questioning the absolute truth
of this assertion, but for the purpose of giving
it due recognition I give it a brief considera-
tion.
	There is in fact both truth and propriety in
the order in which these words appear.
Mother is first, from the simple fact that there
can neither be home nor heaven in their com-
pleteness without mother.
	This is not a startling assertion when we
consider that these terms are used as applicable
to the mind of man, and all men are—have
their being, because of the labor and kindly
offices of mother. Where mother is there is
home, and every child under the smiles and
influence of mother’s love may cherish hopes,
and foretaste the joys of both home and
heaven.
	That happy joyous home, with mother’s
presence blest, and virtuous influence felt, is
truly a delightful foretaste of the joys of that
heaven which is beyond—that everlasting
home which is so earnestly desired—because
mother has taught us here that home, in its
true significance, implies all that can be de-
sired by the human soul. To be at home
with all of home’s delights, implies the happi-
ness of heaven, the soul’s full feast of bliss.
	Of the earthly home, where the hopes of the
eternal are in mother’s genial rule supremely
radiant,the poet’s language is but true, that
		“Heaven on earth is now begun."
	To be the“mother of all living”is an office,by
whomsoever filled, of no mean import, and in-
volves a labor embracing the most responsible
duties of human existence. It is within the
plan of the divine government, and of the
creation, that it shall be the duty of some one
or more, to receive each human being on its
entrance into life and provide for its nurture
and education. God could not fail to throw
upon some one the important duty of receiving
and training the immortal spirit for its work
here on earth, and its employments in an antici-
pated future.
				*	*	*

[Column 2]
	Thus the family becomes a necessity, grow-
ing out of the relation of husband and wife,
and while the father devotes his attention to
the more stern and rigid labors necessary to
provide food for the body, the mother has the
exalted duty of looking after the spiritual de-
velopment, by which the child is stimulated
to love and duty, thought and affection, which
bring into play all our emotional nature, all
our kindly feelings. all those dear charities
which grow up around our homes. Love of
mother grows up in the child with the life he
draws from her breast, under these conditions;
but let a child grow up without home and
mother, and love is not there. No man or
woman was ever duly educated, upon whose
mind has not been brought to bear the love,
the tender sympathy and influence of mother,
to mould and develop the affections of the
soul.
	The father, mother and child, are necessary
to the realization of all that home implies.
Neither can be absent, and the home implies.
Neither can be absent, and the home be what
God has designed it should be— the nursery
of the human soul; and when we scan the
duty and responsibilities of mother, we must
say, she constitutes the link that binds father
to son, the temporal to the spiritual, the
spiritual - the soul of man—to God; conse-
quently, no home on earth or in heaven can
be complete in its emotional development and
enjoyment without mother.
	Next to mother comes home. It is the earthly
type we have of heaven. How sweet the word!
What beautiful and tender associations cluster
thick around it! It warms the heart, and stirs
the very soul of man to love its quickening
impulse. It has inspired with courage and
patient endurance, the careworn sons of toil,
both on sea and land, and the very thought
of home has been a shield to virtue, and
brought back many a wanderer from the
paths of vice.
	The believer delights to think of heaven as
a home. He associates with with it all that im-
parts a sacredness to the homes of earth; and
more—all that imagination can picture of
happiness and bliss, without pain or sorrow;
freed from all life’s ills, and radiant with the
divine presence and glory that shall eclipse
the noonday sun, and fill every possible de-
sire for the immortal beatitudes, and riches of
an endless life.
	Mothers who do their duty to children
when young, and make the virtues of Gospel
truth the first impress upon the infant mind,
are the real saviors of men. I do not say re-
deemers, but saviors; preserving them in the in-
nocence with which they received them, with
the assurance 'that a child trained in the way
he should go, when old, will not depart from
it.’ Though they may stray from home they
will return to it. Though they may be from
heaven, they will come there again, with an
everlasting recognition and appreciation of
mother's love and care. Who would not be a
savior upon Mount Zion—a loving mother—
an efficient co worker with man’s Redeemer?
MOTHER first, then Home and Heaven.


Mrs. Esther T. Housh, state president of the
Vermont W. C. T. U., who is now on the edi-
torial staff of the Household, has been con-
tributing to the Union Signal a series of
articles on Dorothea Dix.


