FAR FROM HOME.

	This is a lovely Sabbath day,the elements are
so beautifully calm and pleasant, seeming to
add a sublimity to the day of days, when we
are commanded to rest from worldly cares and
keep holy this the Lord’s day.
	Perhaps some may deem me weak-minded,


but whenever my hands and mental faculties
cease to perform the labors of the week, my
mind instantly flees to dear, dear “Utah the
queen of the West,” how I love her beautiful
vales and my heart yearns for the blessed
privileges and associations so oft enjoyed “in
the land of my choice.” When a little girl I left
the country of my birth with my father, he
desiring to dwell in a land where he could be-
lieve and live in accordance with his real con-
victions; now I’m a woman and have little
girls of my own, we leave that haven of peace
and religious freedom, because we have so be-
lieved and lived. Ah, Time! why these
changes ! I only ask that I may have grace to
sacrifice and submit resignedly. Since my
last communication I have traveled northward
one hundred and thirty miles and find quite a
contrast in climate and surroundings generally.
It is much cooler here now than where I have
been during the wintry months, though the
hearts of those I have made the acquaintance
of here are just as warm as though they dwelt
in the sunny south. I have met with those
who were total strangers to me,yet showed con-
sideration and kindness far exceeding any an-
ticipation of mine; then too, when one is lo-
cated in sight of telegraph and stage coach,
the intervening distance between one and home
does not seem so great.
	Most of the Church organizations, Y. M.
and Y. L. Mutuals, Primary and R. S. are in
active operation here, though conducted some-
what differently from any I know of in Utah;
one good thing can be said of the Sabbath
school, its order could rarely be surpassed.
The Primary meetings are not running at
present on account of sickness of some of the
officers; there are two very sad cases here, both
being widows and their recovery is very doubt-
ful, one of whom is only about twenty years
of age. 
	Panaca is a prosperous, pretty little town,
the people marked with order and intelligence,
and the many bright faces of the children
make one feel quite in Mormondom, yet there
is something lacking, that I consider a loss or
disadvantage, they do not receive spiritual in-
struction direct from the leaders of our faith
as we have so often in Utah; the visit of an
Apostle is almost unthought of as being re-
alized. Were it possible, too, for the sister
workers in the Relief Society or any of the
L. D. S. women’s organizations to come and
see us that we might get personal advice from
our co-laborers at the head, it would build up,
infuse new light, ideas and hopes into the
labors of the sisters here, and bury the feeling
of being numbered with the slighted ones. Of
course there is a just cause for this remote
spot not enjoying this privilege, and, perchance
would not be considered so seriously by those
who had not so thoroughly sensed the benefit
derived from counsel and encouragement ad-
ministered with that love and power that those
in responsible positions possess.
	I watch and wait anxiously for the coming
of the paper,it being the main source of obtain-
ing any information of the movements of my
Utah sisters in the spiritual and heavenly
labors. 
					E. A. C. WATSON.
	Panaca, April 12,1891.


Rev. Anna H. Shaw, president of the Wimo-
daughsis, was given a reception last Saturday at
Indianapolis, by Mrs. May Wright Sewall and
the other ladies of the Propylaeum, the Wo-
man’s Club of that city. Miss. Shaw is now
filling engagements in Michigan. She will be
one of the speakers at the annual convention
and festival of the New England W. S. A.,
in May.


