IN MEMORIAM.

	The subject of the following brief memoir,
Sister Hannah Jackson Allen, was born at
Gool, Lincolnshire, England, Jan. 29th, 1825,
was married to W. L. N. Allen, of Kingston-
upon-Hull, England, August, 14th, 1848.
Recieved the gospel which her husband had
previously recieved and was baptized by Elder
Hugh Findlay of Glasgow, Scotland, then
President of the district known as the Hull
Conference.
	By nature Mrs. Allen was ardent and
impulsive, sociable and sympathic, hence her
home at once became the main centre of the
branch. of which her husband was the loved
and respected President. Round this centre
the Saints gathered from all points of the 
large Conference, for here was open house to
all "the honest of heart," and whole souled 
welcome to such as "came in the name of the
Lord."
	Her heart went especially to the Missionaries,
both native and foreign. She realized pain-
fully their great self denial, and the hardships
to which they were subjected. Thus her
cottage home was in very deed to them a
haven of rest, and its hospitable hearth the
altar where they offered up their songs of
praise, and thanksgiving, and from which
they went forth as giants refreshed with new
wine. And to their credit be it spoken,
there are some in the land today who mindful
of these things, speak of her still as "Dear
Sister Allen."
	She was a woman of few words, but full of
deeds, golden deeds, of love and charity. She 
filled well and to the full her mission in her
native land, and carried with her the grateful
love of all hearts, when, on the 7th of Jan.,
1853, accompanied by her husband, and first
born child, an infant son of eight weeks, she
started out for the gathering place of the
Saints, where they arrived on the 12th of
Oct. following, alter a trying journey, equal
in extent to the diameter of our globe, with
good spirits, but somewhat impaired health,


[Column 1]

from a long and stormy ocean voyage in mid-
winter, and a more than thousand miles tramp
over the trackless prairie, during which she
carried her sick babe and walked from twelve
to twenty miles a day.
	How little do the emigrants of to-day
realize the privations and discomforts which
of necessity awaited the early settlers! Silver
and gold counted little in those days, it was
brain and muscle, faith and integrity, which
alone had value then, and in these things,
Sister Allen and her brave young husband
were rich indeed.
	New and perplexing circumstances greeted
them here, strangers in a strange land. But
they quickly comprehended the situation, and
with characteristic resolution took their stand,
from which they never swerved, come weal,
come woe, it was all the same, their hands
were on the Gospel plow, and being, as she
was wont to say, "of the right grit," they never
faltered, not even when the law of celestial
marriage was presented to them, that most
trying of all tests to women of her tempera-
ment and early training, but she bravely passed
the ordeal, and proved that to know her duty
was virtually to do it, and to the great surprise
of her husband, suffering not her natural
prejudices to assert themselves, she emulated
the example of Sarah, and thus secured her
own eternal honor
	In her new home even in the midst of penury,
their old hospitality distinguished them, and
in 1855 they took to their hearts and home,
four orphan children whose parents had died
on the plains, and the result of her labor of
love is found in the fact that every one of
them are to-day industrious and reliable
members of the comunity.
	Notwithstanding her native sociability,
Sister Allen was retiring even to a fault, and
when the Relief Society of the twenty-first
Ward was organized, with Mrs. A. O. Burt as
President, and she first Counselor, she would
fain have shrunk from the appointment, but
finding she could not consistently do so, she
took up the duties of her office, as she had
done everything else, with all the energies of
her being. No personal sacrifice was too much
for her to make, she was always at her post,
and could be confidently counted upon when-
ever required, until midsummer of 1887, when
in the order of an unerring Providence, she was
stricken with paralysis, and her usefulness
forever destroyed.
	But in this terrible visitation the goodness
of God to her was remarkably manifest, in
the fact, that her intellect was unimpaired,
so that she could understand and enjoy all
the blessings, which He in His love and mercy
crowded into her last years, her only trouble
was that she could not do anything for others
in return for all their devotion to her. She
would fervently remark with tears, "O if
I could only do something, even mend a pair
of socks for the children, I would not mind."
But she had done her work, had made her
record for industry, and left an example well
worthy of imitation. It was therefore per-
mitted her to rest from her labors even in this
life. During the three years and a half of
her utter helplessness, her children were untir-
ing in their devotion to her, and vied with each
other in demonstrations of their filial love, and
her husband was her constant companion.
	Her last day on earth was the 66th anniversa
ry of her birth, and waking early that morning
the Bishop said to her, "Ma, this is your birth-
day, I wish you many happy returns." "My
death day you mean," she interposed; this
remark he considerately evaded, and con-
tinued, "As the weather is cold and threaten-
ing, suppose we don't celebrate to-day, but
keep yours and mine together in May?" "Yes,
it is cold, that will be better." she replied.
But the angel of the programme had arranged

[Column 2]

otherwise, and in the afternoon brought to-
gether her sons and her daughters, with their
children, and their love tokens, to spend that
never to be forgotten evening—the last with
them. They were a happy unsuspecting party
gathered around that family board without the
faintest shadow of approaching gloom, or the
smallest hint of coming grief. No death's
head at that joyous feast, all was harmless
mirth and gaiety, and not until a late hour
was the last good-night spoken, the last ma
ternal kiss imprinted on precious lips and
cheeks which she would kiss no more. All
was done, she had finished her mother work,
then calmly and peacfully she laid her down
to rest, never to rise again! But not in the
darkness of night did she steal away, no, she
saw the morning dawn, and the bright blue
sky, ere the last of human words had fallen on
her ear, and they, coupled with his hearty and
affectionate "good morning mother," were a
joke from her last born son, to which she re-
plied in the same spirit, then the loved voice
was hushed forever.
	Some fifteen minutes later the Bishop re-
turned to the room and finding a great change,
summoned the family. There was no agoniz-
ing struggle, nothing to appal the looker on,
but evidently the finger of death had tenderly
touched the vitals, and his work too was done.
She was gone! Gone where? Through "the
beautiful gates ajar," "Unto the glorious city
beyond" from whence she beckons her loved
ones to follow. Farewell to thee patient one!
peace to thy ashes, honor to thy memory, the
blessings of consolation to thy bereaved
husband, and blessings of reward to thy dutiful
children. May every name be written in the
Saint's book of Life, and chosen when He
shall number up His jewels.

