			RESOLUTIONS
	Resolved: That the establishment of full
Woman's Suffrage in the State of Wyoming
by the vote of her people, and its subsequent
ratification by Congress and the President,
mark a revolution in the political statuets of
women in America, and will hereafter give the
women of the nation U. S. Senators and Rep-
resentatives, elected in part by the votes of
women.

[column 2]
	2. That School Suffrage by women in
twenty-two States, municipal Woman Suffrage
in Kansas, and full Woman Suffrage in
Wyoming give assurance that women will
eventually be recognized everywhere as the 
political equals of men.
	3. That we congratulate the Kansas House
of Representatives upon its adoption of a 
Woman's Suffrage bill by a two thirds vote
(69 to 34) and we earnestly appeal to the
Kansas Senate for its concurrence.
	4. That the recent discussions of Woman's
Suffrage on an educational qualification by
the constitutional conventions of Mississippi
and Kentucky, indicate a growing belief on
the part of enlightened legislators that the ad-
mission as voters of women who can read and 
write, will solve the difficult problem of
political illiteracy.
	5. That we recommend conventions during
the coming year in every Southern Capital, in
co-operation with the Suffragists of those
States.
	6. A. That we will continue to memorialize
Congress for a constitutional amendment abol-
ishing all political distinctions on account of
sex.
	B. That in the six remaining Territories we
will make strenuous efforts to secure full suf-
frage by statute in advance of their admission
as States.
	C. That in every State where there is no ex-
pressed constitutional exclusion of women as
voters, we advise suffragists to demand full
Woman Suffrage by legislative enactment, and
in every State to petition the legislature for
municipal and presidential suffrage by statute.
	D. That we will heartily support any State
which engages in a struggle for equal suffrage
by methods approved by this Association.
	7. That we urge the appointment of women
as physicians, matrons and managers in all
penal reformatory and other public institu-
tions containing women or children as in-
mates.
	8. That women and men should be equally
represented on School Boards.
	9. That we congratulate the friends of equal
rights upon the advancement of women in-
dicated by their late National Council and by
woman's improved opportunities, social, in-
dustrial, educational, legal, professional and
political-opportunities, which are at once a 
basis and a guarantee for her future equality
as an American citizen.
	10. That we urge each State Suffrage
Society to petition its legislature for a thorough
revision of the laws regulating the marriage
relation so as to secure to wives and husbands
equal personal and property rights, to mothers
and fathers an equal right to their children,
and to widows and widowers equal rights to
their inheritance of property.
	11. That our thanks are due to the House 
and Senate Committees of Congress for their
reports in favor of Woman Suffrage, also to
both Houses who have worked and voted for
the admission of Wyoming.
	12. Recognizing the power of the Press,
we thank the women of the several Press
Associations for aiding our cause, and we also 
express our obligations to the Washington City
papers, and to the Associated and United
Press for their friendly reports of our proceed-
ings.


