			BY EDWARD BELLAMY.
	(Author of "Looking Backward," etc., etc.)
	It is assumed that the year 2000 will
see Nationalism fully established as the basis
of the industrial system and of society, so far
as dependent upon it. Judging from the
signs of the times, I think it would be quite
safe to make the date seventy-five years earlier,
but for the benefit of those weak in the faith
it is set well ahead. As there are doubtless
some who do not understand very clearly what
Nationalism is, it may be well enough just
here to explain, so far as may be done in a
phrase, that it proposes turning over all the
business of the country to a single firm, of
which all the people, women as well as men,
shall be employess,and in the proceeds of which
all shall be equal partners. Leaving wholly
aside, for the present purpose, all explana-
tions as to the details of this plan, and all
questions as to its feasibility, it is simply
proposed to point out certain ways in which
the position of women would be affected by
its successful introduction.
	We are to suppose that every adult woman
in the United States—while required, like
every adult man (except as modified by sex
conditions), to perform some self-elected
useful work—had coming to her a regular
annual income in the form of credit, to be
expended as she pleased, equal say, to the
present purchasing power of $1,000, $3,000 or
$5,000,more or less,according to the prosperity
of the national firm, said income to be the
same in amount with that received by her
brother, husband, or father, but not to come
to her through them or through any other
intermediary, but directly from the national
administration, as a matter of constitutional
right.
	Now, considering the fact that woman,
owing to her comparative physical disqualifica-
tions as a worker, has hitherto been, as a rule,
wholly or partially dependent upon the favor
or affection of men for the means of a secure
and comfortable existence, it is evident that a
system like that described would, by render-
ing her entirely independent of men in this
respect, make a great alteration in her posi-
tion.
	Obviously the most important single re-
spect in which it would be altered would be
as to her attitude toward marriage. She
would no longer be obliged, as most women
now are, to look forward to marriage as offer-
ing, if not absolutely her only means of support,
yet at least as constituting her main hope of a
secure and comfortable life. The only possible
motive which would then impel her to give
herself to a man would be that she loved him.
May and December might still mate. Beauty
might still wed the Beast,but the sourest cynic
would no longer be able to attribute an un-
worthy motive to the bride. However sordid
she might become under temptation,then there
could be none, for not only would she be un-
der no necessity of marrying at all, but the
wealth of all her possible suitors being the
same, she could have no motive, save love or
admiration for marrying one more than another.
	Not only, however, would Nationalism guar-
antee woman dignity and independence before
marriage, but equally afterward. That event
in no way would affect her rights as a citizen
and a partner in the national concern. 	The
humiliation of complete pecuniary depen-
dence upon their husbands, of being obliged to
ask for all they have, beyond bare bread and
meat, which the best and noblest of wives
now have to endure, the wife of the year 2000
would never know.
	Let us suppose, on the other hand, that her
heart, remaining untouched, she had preferred
to remain single.

[Column 2]
	At the present time, a popular presumption
exists that all girls wish to marry, and fail to
do so because they lack an eligible opportunity.
This presumption exists on account of the ob-
vious fact that women, being able with diffi-
culty to support themselves, have in general a
greater material interest in marriage than men
have. Surely there can be few incidents
of an unmarried woman's condition more
exasperating than her knowledge that because
this is the undeniable fact it is vain for her to
expect to be popularly credited with the volun-
tary choice of her condition. She must en-
dure with a smile, however she may rage with-
in, the coarse jest or innuendo to which it
would be worse than vain to reply. National-
ism, by establishing the economic independence
of women, without referring to their single
or married state, will destroy the presumption
referred to by making marriage no more ob-
viously desirable to one sex than to another.
	Would you gain a realization of the position
of the "old maid" in the year 2000? If so,
look at the lordly bachelor of to-day, the hero
of romance, the cynosure of the drawing room
and of the promenade. Even as that bright
being, like him self-poised,sorely insouciant,free
as air, will the "old maid" of the year 2000 be.
It is altogether probable, by the way, that the
term "old maid" will by that time have fallen
into disuse.
	But while the unmarried woman of the year
2000, whether young or old, will enjoy the
dignity and independence of the bachelor of to-
day, the insolent prosperity at present enjoyed
by the latter will have passed into the salutary,
if sad, eclipse. No longer profiting by the
effect of the pressure of economic necessity
upon woman, to make him indispensable, but
dependent exclusively upon his intrinsic attrac-
tions, instead of being able to assume the
fastidious airs of a sultan surrounded by
languishing beauties, he will be fortunate if he
can secure by his merits the smiles of one.
	In the year 2000 no man, whether lover or
husband, may hope to win the favor of maid
or wife save by desert. While the poet, justly
apprehending the ideal proprieties, has always
persisted in representing man at the feet of
woman, woman has been, in fact, the depen-
dent and pensioner of man. Nationalism will
justify the poet and satisfy the eternal fitness
of things by bringing him to his morrow-bones
in earnest. But, indeed, we may be sure that
in the year 2000 he will need no compulsion to
assume that attitude.
	It implies no disloyalty to the womanhood
of to-day to believe that the personal dignity
and moral freedom,unkown before to her sex,
which will be the birthright of woman in the
twentieth century, can not fail to react most
favorably upon herself, ennobling her graces,
clothing with a new majesty her beauty, and
making her every way more worthy than ever
before of the reverence and devotion of man.
	There is another and profoundly tragic as-
pect of the relation of the sexes, which by no
means may be passed over in considering what
Nationalism will do for womanhood. The
same economical pressure which brings the
mass of women into a relation of dependence
upon men, rendered more or less tolerable
according to the degree of mutual affection, re-
duces a great multitude of women, who are
not fortunate enough to find adequate mascu-
line support, to a form of slavery more morally
degrading than any other, and more complete
in its indignity. The most ancient form of
bondage,which has grown up with the race and
flourishes to-day in the face of civilization and
Christendom as widely and vigorously as ever,
which no wisdom of the economist, no zeal of
the philanthropist has ever availed to  dimin-
ish, Nationalism, by the necessary operation of
its fundamental principle, will at once and for-
ever extirpate. Want on the one hand will

[Column 3]
then no longer drive the virtuous woman to
dishonor, nor on the other will wealth, in the
hands of unscrupulous men,tempt her frivolous
sister.—From Ladies' Home Journal.


