“THIS WOMAN BEAT INGALLS."

	Of all the speakers in the remarkable series
of women’s conventions recently held in Wash-
ington, it is probably within the truth to say that
none made so marked an impression as Mrs.
Mary E. Lease, of Kansas; for, as one of the
New York papers declared in its largest head-
line, "This Woman Beat Ingalls.” If any man
would know the manner of woman reformer who
hails from “the broad prairies of Temperance and
Humanity—loving, sunny Kansas,” let him read
Mrs. Lease’s speech at Washington in defence of
the Farmers’ Alliance movement. If the reader
is not thrilled by the throbbing eloquence and
rhetorical beauty as well as by the moral intensity
of that address, he may never hope to be moved
by noble speech. Mr. Ingalls is eloquent, too;
but his is the eloquence of telling and felicitous
phrase and of polished wit. It was no match
for the prophetic enthusiasm of Mrs. Lease, who
is the Jeanne d’Arc of the farmers and working-
men of Kansas, and who has an army of Kansas
women of like spirit at her back. For the
Farmers’ Alliance admits women on equal terms
with men, and it already includes half a million
women in its membership. The Republican
majority in Kansas was thought invincible; and


yet the Farmer's Alliance last November elected
five farmer Congressmen out of seven, secured
the State Legislature, and replaced the world-
famed United States Senator Ingalls by the ob-
scure farmer Mr. Peffer. Mrs. Lease and the
women of Kansas are are in a large measure re-
sponsible for the success of the agitation.
	The fact is that the farmers, who are today as
they have always been the most typical and rep-
resentative element of American citizenship, are
tired of old-time party politics. Like the com-
mon folk of England  *	*  what is wanted is a 
new programme of social politics for the people.
The Farmers' Alliance simply breathes the spirit
that is in the air. The Western farmers know
that things are somehow wrong. They have
been trying to solve the puzzle. Doubtless their
diagnosis of society's diseases, and still more
their remedial formulas, are at some points ab-
surd. But they are honest and earnest, and in
many of their views they are clear-headed and
right. They have at least made one grand dis-
covery; namely, that they have been delegating the
business of government to politicians and lawyers,
and that if the interests of the masses are indeed
jeopardized by the syndicates and monopolies 
and growingly dominant corporations, it is high
time for the people to cease electing to legislative
and executive posts the classes of men most
amenable to the influences of corporate wealth
and power.
	The Western farmers believe that the "money
power" has been robbing them through an actual
or relative contraction of the circulating medium;
and they believe in free silver, if not in limitless
issues of irredeemable paper. Far from wishing
dishonestly to scale down the mortgages on their
farms, they desire only that money should have a
normal purchasing power. It is so easy to criti-
cise the extravagance of the accusations that
these reformers often make, and to point out
fallacies and heresies in their economic creeds,
that there is danger lest the East may forget to
note the advantage to the country that can but
accrue from the aroused mental political and
social activity of the Western farmers.
	Mrs. Lease's confidence in the Farmers' Alliance
as a piece of permanent machinery may be wholly
misplaced; but it is the spirit of awakening and
of energetic action behind the organization that 
is significant.


