WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	﻿ N. A. W. S. A. OF UTAH TER.
	An executive session of the Utah W. S. A.,
was held April 3, 1891, at 10 a. m., in the
Assembly Hall. Salt Lake City. Mrs. Pheobe
Y. Beatie presiding. Prayer was offered by
Mrs. M. Mitchell. The minutes of the execu-
tive session of the Association held Oct. 3,
1890, were read and accepted. The Treasurer
gave her report which was accepted.
	Mrs. Hannah Dunkley, a representative
from Utah County, reported that the organiza-
tions in that section were in a favorable con-
dition and much interest was taken in them;
that three auxiliary branches had recently
been organized, making in all, eight branches
in that county, while there were still other
branches waiting to be organized.
	Lucy A. Clark represented Davis County.
There are four branches in that county and
others would be organized. In Farmington
the gentlemen had been working with the ladies.
	Salt Lake County was represented by Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp.  Ellen Jakeman was
present in behalf of Sanpete County where
there are ten branches all successfully study-
ing the subjects pertaining to the work.
Emily Richards represented Weber County.
Pres. Kimball stated that Sanpete was the
first to respond to the call for names and that
it furnished most of the names sent to Wash-
ington, a large portion of them being men.
Sarah A. Fullmer, Pres. of the W. S. A., in
Emery County, reported the condition of the
associations there.
	Mrs. Mary Ann Webb, President at Lehi,
said the W. S. A. there had been organized
for one and a half years and the members 
numbered 110.
	Emily Richards suggested that gentlemen
be asked to join the association, and she be-
lieved that men would accord us all the rights
we would ask for.  (Applause).  Miscellane-
ous business being next in order, Maria Y. 
Dougall called attention to the fact that the
Executive Committee of the Territory con-
sisted of but three persons while the By-laws

[Column 2]
and Regulations of the W. S. A., of Utah, say
that such committee shall consist of not less 
than five.  Thereupon, on motion of Emily
Richards, Theresa Hills and May Talmage
were reinstated as members of the executive
board for the Central Committee.
	The subjects of the rights and privileges of
the officers of the auxiliary associations and
the membership were discussed at some length,
On motion the meeting adjourned.
	SENI-ANNUAL CONVENTION.
	On April 3rd, 1891, at 2 p.m., in the
Assembly Hall, the Utah Woman’s Suffrage
Association met in the Territoral Convention.
Caroline Dye,having been appointed chaplain,
opened with prayer.  President Kimball was 
in the chair.
	The minutes of the convention held in Oct.
1890, were read and accepted.  Zina D. H.
Young, Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W.
Smith, M. I. Horne, Emmeline B. Wells,
Elmina S. Taylor and Maria Y. Dougall were
made honorary vice-presidents.
	President S. M. Kimball spoke on the re-
ception the delegates received at Washington,
and how the 1500 names from Utah paved 
the way for their cordial reception.
	Emily S. Richards also spoke on her visit to
Washington, and on the part that the women
are going to take at the World’s Fair.
	Ellen Jakeman, president of the Sanpete
County organization, made some remarks on
the plan of the work carried on in the associa-
tions in that county.
	Lucy A. Clark, president of the Davis
County organization, spoke on the necessity of
studying the laws of the country, also the in-
terest taken by the men of Davis County in
the association.
	Miss Viola Pratt sang a very appropriate
song.
	President Kimball introduced Hon. F. M.
Lyman, by relating in a happy manner her ex-
perience in making her first suffrage speech in
Tooele, when he invited her to address a large
congregation on that subject.
	Hon. F. M. Lyman, in addressing the con-
vention said:  “I have been an advocate of
suffrage for women as long as I can remember.
I took an active part in our legislature when.
the effort was made to extend to women’s privi-
leges in the matter of suffrage, which the ladies,
then possessed. I have heard the subject
talked against, but the severest opponents to it
have been women, not men. In 1885, when I 
was returning from Mexico, I met a highly
intellectual lady, with whom I had much con-
versation. She considered it impossible for
 women to be placed on the same plane as man
for many reasons.
	I think there is no reason that can be held
against woman’s suffrage that cannot be held
against men’s suffrage.  The fact that suffrage
might be given to women does not mean that 
they must hold office. There are but few men
that hold office compared to the whole army
of men; men seek offices because ther are
lucrative, but they are not compelled to accept
any office, and women would have that same
privilege of declining one. The granting of
 the franchise means everything to women and
office holding is a little thing; it is to put men
and women on equal ground. I do not think 
failures in office would be so frequent among
women as among men, and if women had the
franchise there are many corrections that
would be made in the laws. Woman being
deprived of this right tends to make her more
effeminate, she is prohibited from participat-
ing in political matters and is kept in a subdued
condition.
	Women, I believe, should have equal rights
and equal wages with men. (Applause.)  The
majority of employments are suitable for
them, let men have labor that is suitable to

[Column 3]
them and women work that is suitable to
them. Women ought to have more time to
read and get acquainted with the world as
men do. Colored men are given the franchise,
but white women, the mothers of superior
men, are not allowed to judge of the laws.
Suffrage for them must and is now coming.
	Wyoming will be immortalized by the step
it has taken in granting the franchise to
women.  It is a minority that rules in the
country because there is only a minority that
have and exercise the franchise.
	A short time before the death of Henry
Warde Beecher, he was asked the question,
"Shall ministers participate in politics?" He
he answered that the reason politics had got
to such a low condition was that ministers had
been excluded from them.
	The next speaker was Dr. Seymour B.
Young, who read a poem in honor of Wyoming
and gave his views of the woman question; in
a very lucid and comprehensive manner.
	The Convention then adjourned for six
months, Benediction was pronounced by Mr.
Packard.
					ADA CROXALL, Sec.
REPORT OF TREASURER MISS MARGIE DWYER.
	From Oct. 3, 1890, to April 3 1891.
Balance on hand from last report, - - 33,60
Receipts during the half year,- - -     355,90
Total, - - - - - - - - - - 			  389,50

Disbursements during the half year, - - 377,00
Balance cash on hand, - - - - - 	       12,50
								389,50


