	REASONS FOR PHOEBE COUSINS’ REMOVAL.

	The following official statement of the trouble
with Phoebe Couzins has been given out by the
executive committee of the board of lady man-
agers:
	“TO THE LADY MANAGERS OF THE COLUMBIAN
COMMISSION:—Your executive committee now in
session in the city of Chicago requests your kind
consideration of the following statement concern-
ing its action in removing Miss Couzins from
office and the authority and reasons therefor, as
they are here set forth. Articles 4 and 5 of the
by-laws of the board of the lady managers,
adopted Nov. 25, 1890, read as follows:
	ART. 4. Officers of the board of lady man-
agers; The officers of this board shall consist of
a president, whose official title shall be president
of the board of lady managers of the world’s


Columbian commission; nine vice presidents,
who shall be denominated as first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth vice presi-
dents and a vice president at large, and a secre-
tary, all of whom shall hold their office at the
pleasure of the board of lady managers.
	ART. 5. Executive committee: There shall
be an executive committee, consisting of twenty-
five members besides the president, each of whom
shall be appointed by the president, each of the
standing committees to be represented on the ex-
ecutive board. The said committee, when the
board is not in session, shall have all the powers
of the board of lady managers. Ten members
shall constitute a quorum, and the committee may
make such regulations for its own government
and the exercise of its functions through the
medium of such sub-committees as it may con-
sider expedient. This committee shall recom-
mend to the chief commission such employees and
agents as may be necessary and shall distinctly
define the duties. They shall report fully all
their transactions to the board at its stated and
special meetings. In case of any vacancy in the
committee the same shall be filled by appointment
of the president. In all cases where managers
who are members of the executive committee are
absent their alternates are directed to represent
them on the committee.
	The following is the action of the world's
Columbian commission at its session in this city
Wednesday, April 1, 1891:
	Resolved, 5. That, owing to the evident inten-
tion of Congress to allow few meetings of the full
board of lady managers, the executive committee
thereof or a sub-committee of said executive
committee is hereby authorized and empowered
in the absence of the board, to exercise any and
all powers which said board might exercise in
session, including the right and privilege of
amending its by-laws should said executive com-
mittee or sub-committee at any time deem it
necessary or advisable."


