THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY.

	[Paper read at the Woman's National Council
Washington D. C, Feb. 25, 1891.]
	The Women's Relief Society, with headquart-
ers in Utah and branches in adjoining states and
territories, has had nearly half a century of life
and earnest work.  Though operating in a
sparsely settled country and far removed from
the peculiar miseries known to large cities, the
society has had a vast field for its operations;
since the early poverty and privation of the peo-
ple with the consequent demands upon the time
and resources of men, have left domestic charity
almost exclusively to women. The general
officers of the central organization are Zina D. H.
Young, President; Jane S. Richards, First Coun-
selor; Bathsheba W. Smith, Second Counselor;
Snrah M. Kimball, Secretary; Romania B. Pratt,
Assistant Secretary; M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer; and Emmeline B. Wells Cor. Sec.
A branch of the society exists in nearly every
village of Utah and the surrounding region, also
in several of the other states of the Union, and in
Great Britain, Germany, Switzerland, Scandi-
navia, the Sandwich Islands, Australia, New
Zealand and other foreign countries; each local
branch having its board of officers to correspond
with the general organization. Frequent confer-
ences keep alive the unity of the society and in-
sure the efficient system of its labors. There
are more than 400 of these branches, with a total
membership of about 25,000 persons. More than
one hundred thousand dollars worth of real
estate, consisting of halls, storehouses, granaries
etc., is owned by the organization. It has on
hand the following resources to be drawn upon
for charities and relief work:
	Fifty thousand bushels of wheat; twenty thou-
sand dollars worth of other property, consisting
of prodnce, clothing, household goods etc., and
fifteen thousand dollars in cash.  As fast as these
resources are consumed, they are replenished by
the contributions of members. The Society
maintains a large hospital, the chief physician of
which is Mrs. Dr. Pratt, a graduate of eastern
medical schools and a prominent member of the
society. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, herself an


enthusiastic worker of the Society, edits and
publishes the WOMAN'S EXPONENT which is the
recognized organ of the association.
	Primarily, and as its name implies the Women's
Relief Society is an organization for the purpose
of benevolent work. To this end, it seeks out the
sick and the needy, without regard to creed, and
ministers to their wants. It provides food, cloth-
ing and shelter for the destitute, and gives nurses
to the sick. It provides safe employment for
worthy women; and supplies good homes, rai-
ment and education to impoverished orphans.
It is an active worker in the cause of temperance
and an uncompromising foe to the dram-shops
and the liquor dealer. In the success of its be-
nevolent and temperance labors, it has gone be-
yond any limited sphere and has accomplished
notable results for the general elevation of wo-
man. Eor instance, it has trained a large nnm-
ber of its members in business methods, prepar-
ing them, through society responsibilities, to
carry private business cares, should circum-
stances lay such burden upon them. It has
taught them what wonderful power and influence
for good are required by the united movement of
women in a community. Under the superb sys-
tem of organization and solidly in vogue, the
society's members have learned that they can
grapple successfully with all the ordinary destitu-
tion which appeals for relief, and accumulate
means with which the society's usefulness,
strength and independence are constantly aug-
menting. Its meetings have been a good training
school for public speaking; and the society
furnished a common rallying ground for the wo-
men of Utah when they had the franchise and
insured a solid vote of women in favor of public
honor and economy and such private morality as
can be fostered by wise and prudent local ad-
ministration of government. When the happy
day dawns upon Utah, that will restore the politi-
cal rights which were so inconsiderately taken
from cur sex by Congressional enactment, it will
be found that the Relief Society can furnish a
body of intelligent voters, who by experience in
business affairs and observation of the wants of
humanity, are as well fitted to wield the ballot as
any other citizens of the Republic.
	Whatever may be woman’s destiny in politics and
professional life, there is one realm in which her
sovereignty will remain forever undisputed—the
realm of unselfish benevolence—the true charity
which extends daily relief to suffering humanity,
without seeking plaudits or outside recognition.
This has been the work of our Women's Relief
Society and such will continue to be its divine
mission. We nail with joy the Councils of wo-
men and desire to unite with them in all that tends
to elevate our sex and advance the human race.


