[Column 1]
unveiling of the Sea Gull Monument. She
was carried back to early days in Utah when
there were many wonderful demonstrations
of God’s goodness to His people.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams felt over-
joyed in listening to the report of the work
of Mr. and Mrs. Brown at the Memorial
Cottage. Their mission is one of impor-
tance and they are filling it with
credit to themselves and to the Church.
	The speaker regretted very much that the
Boston School of Oratory had refused ad-
mission to such a capable woman as Mrs.
Brown simply because she is a Latter-day
Saint, and hoped that such prejudice would
soon be a thing of the past.
	The Relief Society members were urged
to be hospitable, and to be neighborly, to call
at the homes of all people, and to teach
and preach the Gospel whenever oppor
tunity for so doing is presented.
	The session closed with singing, “Praise
to the Man.”
	Closing prayer was offered by Sister
Edna May Davis.
					AMY B. LYMAN,
							Secretary.

	Friday Oct. 3, Second day.
	The morning session opened with sing-
ing, “Come, come, ye Saints.” 
	Prayer was offered by Miss Sarah Mc-
Lelland.
	Singing, “Softly beams the sacred dawn-
ing.”
	Miss Gertrude McCheyne, of the Agricul-
tural College of Utah, began her talk on
“The School Luncheon Box.” She empha-
sized the need of system in the home man-
agement, with its associate virtue, cleanli-
ness. She touched upon the selection and
preparation of school luncheon, urging
mothers to teach daughters to prepare their 
own boxes both for the training it gave to
the girl and for the relief it would afford the
busy mother. President Joseph F. Smith,
accompanied by Senator Reed Smoot, now
entered the hall and Miss McCheyne courte-
ously sat down, that the audience might
hear the distinguished visitors. Her talk
was finished in the afternoon session.
	President Ballard of the Northwestern
States Mission sang, “I know that my Re-
deemer lives.”
	President Joseph F. Smith expressed his
pleasure at meeting with the Relief Society,
and commented vigorously on the initial
purpose of its existence, and its divine
origin; he hoped that nothing would ever
occur to change its name or to interefere
with its original functions. It had been or-
ganized by revelation given to the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and the name sufficiently in-
dicates its purpose and scope. Its principal
object was to minister to the needs of the
Saints, and at the same time to have a care
for the needy stranger within our gates.
	President Smith said that he wanted the
members of the General Board of this So-
ciety to set such examples when they went
out into the homes of the Saints as an angel
would do, if such were to enter our homes.
If they did not do this and the failure was
reported to his office, the First Presidency
would see to it that others would come who
would set proper examples. He urged upon
the Board and officers generally the neces-
sity of studying the principles of the Gospel,
that they might be ready to teach the Truth

