RESOLUTIONS OF RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Passed at Officers’ meeting held October
7, 1913.
	Inasmuch as the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety have received special instructions from
our Prophet, Seer, and Revelator during the
Conference which has just closed, we desire
to voice our acceptance of his teachings, 
both in our own Conference and in the Gen-
eral Conference on the following points,
viz.:
	Be it resolved, That we do declare it our
purpose to keep intact the original name and
initial spirit and purpose of this great or-
ganization, holding fast to the inspired
teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith
when he revealed the plan by which women
were to be empowered through the calling
of the priesthood to be grouped into suitable
organizations for the purpose of ministering
to the sick, assisting the needy, comforting
the aged, warning the unwary, and succor-
ing the orphans,
	We, as General Officers, Stake Officers,
and Ward Officers, of this Relief Society
will endeavor to set an example, in the mod-
esty of our clothing, the restraint of our
speech, and in the observance of the laws
and commandments of God which shall fit
us to be examplars in the midst of the
daughters of Zion.
	We will study the principles of the Gos-
pel, with all diligence, to enable us to impart
of our knowledge to those who are under
our charge both to our families, to the mem-
bers of our Society, and to the ones who may
be ignorant or unwaary, concerning the
principles of life and Truth. We will seek
first to live the Gospel ourselves, and then be
ready to go out and teach it.
	We will seek to restrain our conversation,
avoiding light chatter, idle gossip, and above
all, we will refrain from criticising our asso-
ciates, the chosen authorities of this Church
from the least to the greatest. We will sus-
tain our civic authorities, while such men
are honest and doing their duty to the full
extent. Our loyalty is engaged not only to
support our Church officials, but our city,
state, and national representatives. We seek
to prove our claim to the title of Latter-day
Saint by our devotion to these principles of
loyalty and righteousness. We shall culti-
vate the spirit of broad-mindedness, setting
aside our own personal desires and ambi-
tions, that we may the more fully enter into
the true spirit of this great charitable organ-
ization.
	We will clothe ourselves modestly and in
a way that shall merit approval from our
brethren, ourselves, and the angels of God;
moreover, we shall teach this principle of
modesty to our children, and our grand-
children after us.
	We again commit ourselves to the ob-
servance of the Word of Wisdom. The
things that are forbidden in that Revelation
shall find no place in our homes nor on our
tables. Nor shall they be offered in our
public gatherings.
	These are the principles for which this
Society has stood for nearly seventy years;
but we give them public expression in this
manner in order to emphasize the teachings
of President Joseph F. Smith, and we call
upon all members of this organization to
join with us in a renewal of effort to the
more strict observance of these and other
principles of the Gospel, until we shall more
nearly approach the perfect conditions ex-

[Column 3]
pressed by our beloved President when he
said, “The sisters must go into the homes of
the people setting such an example as an
angel might, if one came to them.” To this 
end we pray.
(Signed)		CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS,
			JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH,
			CARRIE S. THOMAS,
			SARAH J. McLELLAND,
