[Column 1]
reticent in conversing with him. At present
Sidney Manning was bent on making love
to Esther—the young and fascinating
widow—and she was mistaken when she
told her sister on his arrival that he would
be disappointed in her appearance. Far
from it; he thought her more charming than
in her younger days, if possible.
	Alice’s courtship was progressing favor-
ably. All seemed to be smooth sailing in
their direction. Not so with the others.
Obstacles kept looming up, and Sidney
thought there was no chance at all for him.
Esther’s time was occupied with many calls
and visits. A tender word now and then
when he could meet her in the hallway
alone, was about the extent of his advan-
tages. He knew that some business had to
be attended to soon in Boston, and thought
he would go and transact it while Esther
was so much engaged, and visit her at her
own home when she returned, when he ar-
dently hoped he would be the chief attrac-
tion. The Wetherells persuaded him to re-
main until after New Year’s, and hoping
he might secure an interview on that aus-
picious day, he consented to stay until that
time. He was disappointed, however, the
house was full of callers and some friends
had been invited to dine, and the day sped
swiftly by, and he had decided to leave early
the next morning. He invited Richard Ash-
burn to accompany him, thinking it would
hurry Alice and her aunt home a few days
sooner.
	Mrs. Danforth had intended remaining
much longer, but as her niece had made up
her mind to get married in the coming
spring, she decided to go home and set about
preparations, though she did not take Sid-
ney’s case into consideration as an incentive
to her going.
	The visit had not only been a pleasant but
profitable one, and Aunt Esther realized
how great a blessing had come to her,
through the Gospel she had heard and em-
braced. She was already planning to leave
her native state and go to join the people
of her choice in the chosen home of the
Saints. About a week after Manning’s and
Richard’s departure, Aunt Esther and Alice
took the stage for home. With considerable
reluctance though, for they had met many
pleasant people, and partings give us all
more pain than pleasure. But our lives are
mostly made up of these trifles, coming and
going, meeting and parting, and we must
take the sweet along with the bitter, or we
would never know the contrast. An over-
dose of sweet is very injurious, and some-
times fatal, though we all long for it more
or less, and some people really seem to get
more than their share in this life.
	Poor Aunt Esther plainly saw that there
was to be another struggle with her feelings,
another temptation, was near, and whether
she could overcome it or not, she was
scarcely satisfied in her own mind. She
had no advisor, no one upon whom she
could lean, and her human heart cried out
sharply for the love she had never been per-
mitted to enjoy in its full completeness.
Now it was within her reach. She could
accept it if she would, but would it not be
at the sacrifice of something higher and
holier and more lasting than mere earthly
happiness at its best? Esther Danforth
prayed for guidance from above; it was her
only hope and stay.
	Aunt Esther had no trouble in convincing
Polly and Ben, her true, trusted helps, of

