RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE. 
	The seventh annual and fifty-ninth quar-
terly conference of the Relief Society of
Uintah stake was held in the Stake Taber-
nacle July 15, 1913. President Nancy A.
Colton presiding, with Counselor Mary H.
Stringham in charge.
	Seated on the stand were all the officers
and members of the stake board, President
Ernest Eaton, Patriarch Nelson Merkley,
Elders John N. Davis, Thomas Bingham,
Ashley Bartlett, James Jones, and Bishop
Archie Richardson. President Emmeline B.
Wells and Elizabeth McCune of the General 
Board were the visitors from Salt Lake.
	After the opening exercises and rolll call
President Nancy A. Colton made an address
of welcome; she was pleased to see so many
present and more than pleased that we had
with us President Emmeline B. Wells. She
introduced President Wells, also Elizabeth
McCune, of the General Board.
	Mrs. Fannie E. Stewart gave a talk on
“Power of Personal Influence.”
	Mrs. Elizabeth McCune gave an interest-
ing talk of her pioneer experiences; said the
development of pioneer life is a priceless
boon to all of us, only remember this, keep
your ideals high and exercise freely the op-
portunities which come to pioneer women in
Relief Society callings. She advised the Re-
lief Society teachers in regard to their du-
ties.
	President Emmeline B. Wells was pleased
in visiting the far distant stake of Uintah;
spoke some of her travels in getting
to Vernal, but said “I have a desire to visit
all the stakes from Canada to Mexico;” she
related instances of her early life in the
Church; spoke of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Speaking most feelingly of some of the noble
women of the past, gave quite a history of
the early work of the Relief Society. 
	Mrs. Mary H. Stringham thought we had
been blessed this morning by having the 
presence of President Wells and Sister Mc-
Cune; said the reason President Wells was
so young was that she has only had 21 birth-
days, although she is 85 years old.
	The conference continued in the after-
noon, with a very large attendance.
	President Emmeline B. Wells was the first
speaker. She thought in coming here, what
wonderful things men can do, and women,
too; said she would like to know how many
buildings the Relief Societies have helped
to build and the kind of buildings; she spoke
of the storing of grain; said President Brig-
ham Young gave this, as a mission to the
women of the Church. Spoke of marriage
for eternity, and advised parents to teach
their boys and girls the necessity of going
to the Temple to get married.
	President Don B. Colton had listened with
interest to what had been said; spoke of
brethren not taking as much interest in Re-
lief Society work as they should; referred to


