[Column 2]
improvements have been made at the cost
of great sacrifice, but the standard of the
work has been raised and our sisters have
been better educated in all that pertains to
Relief Society work. She admonished the
members to read the instructions of the
Prophet Joseph to the Relief Society which
were given on several occasions, and to
carry them out as nearly as possible.
	President Effie Ensign Merril, of Liberty
stake, responded to the address of welcome
in a few well chosen words. She felt highly
honored in so doing and expressed her ap-
preciation of the labors of the President and
the members of the General Board.
Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward sang a so-
prano solo, “More Love for Thee, O
Christ.”
	Reports of the Relief Societies of the fol-
lowing stakes were given as follows:
	Alpine stake, by Miss Amy Rosza, stake
secretary; South San Pete stake, by Mrs.
Jane Bench; Parowan stake, by Mrs. Julia
R. Lyman.
	Miss Joy Richards reported the work of
the newly established milk depot on the
West side. She was introduced by Mrs.
Alice M. Horne, who explained that the
Relief Society had seen fit to help the city
Board of Health in this good work by fur-
nishing a nurse in the person of Miss
Richards to assist at the depot.
	Miss Richards stated that the milk depot
or dispensary was established in July of this
year by the city Board of Health for the
purpose of furnishing pure milk at cost for
babes. There have been in attendance three
nurses; two hospital trained nurses fur-
nished by the city, and one Relief Society
nurse, trained in the Relief Society School
of nurses’ and furnished by the Woman’s
Relief Society. It has been the duty of
these nurses to visit homes and ascertain
when help was needed, also to give instruc-
tion on how to feed and care for babies.
	Pure milk was furnished at whatever
price people were able to pay and was given
free to those who were not able to pay
anything.
	In the two months of August and Sep-
tember 1,123 quarts of milk were received;
323 quarts were sold and 800 quarts were
given away. Forty babes were furnished
milk at the station and there was only one
death among them, this death occurring a
few hours after the first application for as-
sistance was made to the nurses. Three
hundred and twenty-eight calls at the depot
were made by mothers, and 1,382 home in-
quiry calls were made by the nurses. The
amount taken in for milk sold was $42.10, a
small amount compared to what was paid
out; but the knowledge of the great amount
of good done and the wonderful apprecia-
tion of those who were assisted, made the
recompense larger than could be counted in
dollars and cents.
	A beautiful organ solo was given by Miss
Edna Coray.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts addressed the
conference. She felt so overcome with joy
in contemplating the wonderful work being
done constantly by the Relief Society, that
it was hard to control her feelings on this
occasion. She was delighted to know that
the trained nurses and the Relief Society
nurse had worked so harmoniously in the
city health department; this is as it should
be. Dr. Roberts spoke of the Relief Society
Nurse school to open immediately after con-
ference and explained briefly the work.

[Column 3]
	Congregation sang, “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.”
	Closing prayer, Mrs. Julina L. Smith. 
AFTERNOON SESSION. 
	Singnig, “Come Let Us Anew.”
	Prayer by Dr. Romania B. Penrose.
	Singing, “Lord Thou Wilt Hear Me.”
	Mrs. Winnifred Brown addressed the as-
sembly, speaking on her experiences at the
Joseph Smith Memorial Cottage at South
Royalston, Vt. She felt it a great honor and
privilege to reign as queen over the home-
stead of the Prophet Joseph Smith. In the
cottage, which was erected over the exact
spot of the prophet’s home, peace, beauty,
and love reign supreme. The old original
gray hearthstone where the babe was
washed and dressed has been retained and
placed in the modern cottage, and above it
hangs the portrait of his mother Lucy Mack
Smith, done in oil. This hearthstone is a
sacred and hallowed spot and the picture
above it, is a source of comfort and inspira-
tion to all who behold it. During the last
year 15,000 people have been received at
the Memorial Cottage.
	Tenor solo, “In God’s Acre,” was given
by Joseph Paul.
	Sister Jeanette A. Hyde gave an address
on “Genealogy.” She called attention to
the fact that the Prophet Joseph urged the
Saints to be energetic in saving souls and in
carrying out this instruction, we must not
forget our dead. We must collect and com-
plete our family records, and go into the
temples and have ordinances performed for
those who did not have the privilege to do
this for themselves. Genealogical records
have been considered of very great impor-
tance in all times. We will remember that
Lehi was sent back to Jerusalem to obtain
the records of his people, as well as the laws
and commandments of Moses. Every Latter-
day Saint should read and study sections
127 and 128 of the Doc. and Cov. Sister
Hyde announced that a series of lessons in
genealogy will be given during the April,
1914, conference, and that each stake will
be expected to send a delegate to take up
the work, details of which will be given at
the officers’ meeting on Tuesday.
	Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley reported that the
Relief Society Home for Women is com-
pleted and is open for women and girls who
are out of employment and are in need of
temporary quarters. A reasonable fee will
be charged for lodging, as it is the desire
of the Board to have the Home self-support-
ing.
	Mrs. Agness Olsen Thomas gave a vocal
solo, “O Rest in the Lord.”
	Counselor Julina L. Smith addressed the
conference. She had been greatly impressed
with the remarks of Mrs. Brown and re-
ferred very feelingly to the Prophet’s
mother who she said lost five grown sons
and still retained her faith and courage and
cheerfulness. The motto of this mother was
“O Lord Thy will not mine be done.” The
speaker referred to the new building about
to be erected by the Church, and was pleased
to say that a portion of it would be set apart
for the use of the Genealogical Society,
where its books and records may be safely
kept. She urged the sisters to keep up their
interest in genealogy and to urge others to
do everything possible to study the great
and glorious work.
	Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings spoke of the


