CORRESPONDENCE.
	EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT: I am an
old man over four score, nothing of much
use left but my good memory and this may
fail me soon, so I have concluded to write
some of my early remembrances.
	In the summer of 1857 I happened to be
at Green River Ferry. Isaac Bullock with
his famly were there also. Brother Bullock
had charge of the ferry.
	There were many Shoshone Indians in
the vicinity. They were not savage when
sober, but when drunk were like all Indians,
dangerous. No one expected trouble as
liquor was not sold about the ferry. Brother
Bullock had a friendly acquaintance with
these Indians, could speak their language,
and having done considerable missionary
work among them had quite an influence
over them- He was a cool, level-headed
man, full of faith; still he knew how reck-
less whisky made them. We were visited
by a crowd of drunken Indians who rushed
into the house. He told his family to keep
cool and to show neither fear or excitement
but do as they were directed and they would
not be hurt. He also requested those of us,
his friends, to make no move but to sit still.
This was pretty hard to do at times. I saw
one man place his hand on his gun several
times. Brother Bullock told the women to
start in making biscuits and coffee. This 
they did with due diligence. The only sal-
vation seemed to be in keeping the Indians
eating biscuits and drinking coffee.
	I have had many experiences with Indians
but this exceeded anything I had yet seen. 
Whilst one crowd was filling up another ten
or twenty would crowd into the house de-
manding money, pointing their weapons at
Brother Bullock, some striking at him with
tomahawks and others even punching him
with their knives until they cut his clothes.
I have always remembered that one struck
hard enough to cause blood to stain his
breast; he never flinched but kept talking
to them in a friendly way. Some of the
Indians were sober and when the drunken
Indians became too aggressive they would 
grab them around their bodies and put them
out of the house. How long this kept up
I do not remember, but my impression is
some two or three hours.
	I can well remember, although this oc-
curred fifty-five years past, seeing a good
many batches of biscuits taken out of the
oven, but I have no remembrance of hearing
either of the sisters speak in a loud or ex-
cited voice. I did not so much wonder at
Sister Electa’s coolness as she was known
as a strong-minded woman before her mar-
riage, but I did admire the fortitude of
Sister Emma, the younger of the two.
	I sat where I could see all that was going
on as I had great faith in Brother Bullock
and believed that he would pull through,
which he did without weakening or making
any concession whatever. I have never met


ether of these parties since to speak of the
occurrence, but I have often thought when
reading accounts descriptive of early days,
well that's pretty good, but if some good
writer could tell about Brother Bullock and
his brave family, it would beat that.
DANIEL W. JONES,
Author "Forty Years Among the Indians."


