[Column 2] 
to others. We should seek to first live the
Gospel ourselves and then go out and teach
it to others. Those who go out to teach
should go in the spirit of their calling and
not spend the time in idle gossip or in talk
on the happenings of the day. You sisters
should minister such temporal and spiritual
assistance as may be needed in the homes
where you visit. He related an instance of
a visit to a distant stake where the sisters
of the Relief Society had cared for sick
families in the town. President Smith
wanted the sisters in office to be big and
broad-minded, so that personal differences
might not creep into their official acts. There
is no room for petty jealousies and envyings
among Saints; be unselfish and loyal to
truth and righteousness. He himself was
loyal to his friends, to President Lyman
who was present, as also to Elder Smoot,
whom he had known since he was born. He
would not consider any man his friend who
sought to injure either of these brethren.
He had watched the public career of Sen-
ator Smoot and knew him to be upright,
clean, just and true to every trust. And his
friends would be the friends of Senator
Smoot. He had no time nor disposition to
criticize either civil or religious authorities.
He was loyal to the city governing officers,
to the governor of the state, and to our
congressional delegation. Moreover, he was
loyal to our national administration, for
only so could good men have the best
chance to do their work unhindered. When
men were doing the best they could, Latter-
day Saints would serve themselves by hold-
ing up their hands. President Smith then
spoke solemnly on the Word of Wisdom,
and its strict observance. He urged the
sisters to look after the aged, to succor the
orphan, and to minister in the spirit of
Christ to all who stood in need of assist-
ance. He closed with a powerful testimony
to the character of President Emmeline B.
Wells, saying that he knew her worth and
that she had been placed in her present ex-
alted position because of her long experi-
ence and her unquestioned loyalty to the
Gospel of Jesus Christ. She had received
that testimony in her youth and it was that
inner testimony of the Spirit, which was the
only sure guide for the spirit of man upon
this earth. It takes of the things of the
Father and makes them known unto the
children of men.
	Mrs. Lizzie Thomas-Edward sang the
“Angel’s Serenade,” with a violin accom-
paniment by Prof. George E. Skelton.
	Senator Reed Smoot spoke feelingly of
his mother’s holy teachings and of his high
regard for women and their labors in life.
He spoke of his pride in the youth of this
Church, and of his own loyalty to its teach-
ings. He said he had never lost anything
by proclaiming his religion, nor had he
failed in any test set up by that standard.
He spoke of the great good accomplished
by women of this Church when they at-
tended the Eastern conventions, and of the
undying friendship such associations had
engendered between our women and the
prominent women of the world. His best
friends among the noted women of the
world had been such women as Belva A.
Lockwood, J. Ellen Foster, Clara Barton,
Susan B. Anthony and others who were not
only friends to this people but to all honest
people, and whose labors in behalf of their
sex had done far more good than had ever
been accomplished by the foolish suffra-

[Column 3] 
gettes of England. He referred in glowing
terms to President Emmeline B. Wells and
her influence amongst these women, and
said that she was a wonderful woman. He
had scarcely hoped that she could survive
her last illness while recently in Provo, but
here she was just as vigorous and capable as
ever. She owed her long life and the power
to rise above such sore afflictions to her in-
domitable self-will and her unbounded faith.
Such women as she are needed amongst
our own people, as amongst the women of
the world. Nearly all noted women knew
Mrs. Wells and always asked after her. He
hoped the association with the eastern
women in their mammoth conventions
would not be given up but continued with
unabated vigor, for the educational value
was incomparable.
	Miss Edna Dwyer sang, “There comes a
time,” followed by the Doxology, and the
benediction was pronounced by President
Francis M. Lyman.
	The afternoon session was opened by
singing, “Let us pray, gladly pray.” Prayer
was offered by Sister Susa Young Gates.
Singing, “On the mountain tops appearing.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells introduced
Dr. Leslie Woodruff Snow as the son of
President Lorenzo Snow and the grandson
of President Wilford Woodruff. Dr. Snow
gave a very dear talk on the care of the
eyes, the need of proper light, of cleanli-
ness, and of proper glasses being worn in
cases of weak or myoptic eyes. He gave
some excellent directions for simple home
remedies for avoidance of common mistakes
and urged the parents to look well after the
precious eyesight of their children.
	A violin solo by Willard Weihe, accom-
panied on the organ by Prof. J. J. Mc-
Clellan, was beautifully rendered and
brought forth a rising vote of thanks. After
which Miss McCheyne completed her ex-
cellent talk on the “School Luncheon Box,”
bringing many little suggestions of value to
home keepers.
	A charming organ solo by our own or-
ganist, Miss Edna Coray, was much appre-
ciated, and then Prof. Maud May Babcock
told of the new “Home” for girl wage-
earners in the Ensign stake of Zion. She
reported that they were in need of thirty-
two quilts and invited the mothers to come
to their assistance.
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a spir-
ited closing talk, referring to the times in
Kirtland when Mother Whitney was
hostess to the Prophet Joseph Smith when
he was in that city. How she would hush
her cradle song to listen to the murmured
tones of that inspired voice as the Prophet
dictated his revelations to his scribe on the
floor above her. She said we had had a re-
markable conference and she hoped the sis-
ters would take the spirit of it home to their
stakes and wards. She urged them to be
kind to those who were blind or lacking in
any of their faculties, for the blessings of
God would rest upon them inasmuch as they
ministered to such unfortunates. She in-
voked the blessing of God upon all present
and all those engaged in Relief Society
work in all the world.
	Alexander Crawford sang “One sweetly
solemn thought,” and the congregation sang
“Redeemer of Israel.” Sister Ida Smoot
Dusenberry pronounced the final benedic-
tion of the-Conference.
					SUSA Y. GATES, 
							Cor. Sec.


