[Column 2]
giving that we are now to preserve in sculp-
tured art the miraculous incident we all
know so well; and I now have the pleasure
and honor to unveil this beautiful monument
to the eye and admiration of grateful thous-
ands now living, and of untold thousands
yet to come.”
	Following the unveiling of the monument,
the sculptor, Mahonri M. Young, was intro-
duced and bowed his acknowledgment to the
applause with which he was greeted. Bishop
Nibley then invited all the pioneers of 1847-
48 to come forward and take seats of honor
near the stand. The Honorable W. W. Riter
gave a most interesting account of the hard-
ships experienced by the pioneers the first
two years. Mr. Riter’s remarks were as fol-
lows:
	Brethren and Friends: We have met on
this occasion to celebrate, in a modest way,
the unveiling of the monument of the Gull,
the bird that played so important a part in
the preservation of the lives of the Pioneers
of 1847 and 1848. It is fitting that the work-
manship, or art expression, portrayed in this
bird should be the handiwork of a grandson
of the great leader, Brigham Young, who led
these early pioneers into this then sterile and
forbidding country. I doubt if there are any
present to whom this event has a greater
significance than to me. I was only a boy
of 10 years when the event occurred, which
we now have met to commemorate. I well
remember the gloom, almost despair, that
fell upon us when the crickets came down
from the hills in such myriads that the
ground was nearly covered with them, and
attacked with voracious appetites the then
too scanty fields of grain, which had been
planted with toilsome hands. You will par-
don me if I give you some of my own re-
membrances in regard to this event, for they
are the ones most deeply imbedded in my
memory.
	My father had planted eight acres of
wheat up there in the Nineteenth ward, on
the ground immediately in front of Captain
Hooper’s old residence. It grew fairly well
until the crickets came, and then our glow-
ing hope of a crop was almost turned into
despair. My father had put in a crude dam
on the north branch of City Creek, near
where the Odeon now stands, and turned
the water to irrigate his wheat down an old
channel of the creek until it reached his field.
Besides the myriads of crickets which were
already devouring the tender plants, this
water brought down myriads of others that
had come off the hills, and failing to cross
the water (for they were a clumsy insect)
were washed down into his field. The ex-
tremity was so great he offered Robert
Pierce the contents of his whole field for
three barrels of flour, reckoning that these
three barrels of flour would feed his family
six months, and then we could die.
	These conditions were the lot of all the
pioneers then here. I have frequently
thought these events were a striking an-
alogue to those encountered by the Israel-
ites under Moses, when camped near the
shores of the Red Sea. The Egyptians were
on either side and behind, and the Red Sea
in front and death hovering over the scene,
when lo! God stretched forth his hand and
his people were saved. Death could have
seemed scarcely more imminent to those
early pioneers into the deserts of the Sinaitic
peninsula than to us, on the occasion I refer
to. As the Children of Israel, throughout
all their generations, looked back and ac-

[Column 3]
knowledged God as their Savior, in parting
the waters of the Red Sea, is it any wonder
that we, too, attribute to the mercies of God
the coming of the gulls, who devoured our
enemies, the crickets, and permitted a por-
tion of our crops to escape the absolutely
certain destruction they were undergoing?
	The gulls came and gorged themselves on
the crickets; once filled could have given but
little relief, for the number of crickets was
so great; but the gulls disgorged the masses
they had eaten and then continued the
process until the situation was saved.
	Brethren and friends, I witnessed this, and
relate it to you in all truth and soberness. My
remarks must be limited on this occasion for
there are others to speak; but let me here
express the hope that this monument may
be a reminder to those who come after us,
that the same God whose mercies have ever
hovered over his children in times of their
direct distress, still lives, and that he may
ever be relied upon for relief when all hu-
man succor fails.
	This recital would be incomplete if I did
not refer to a grand character then among
us in the person of Uncle John Smith,
patriarch, as he then was called—a brother
to the prophet’s father. He was then an
aged man. His courage and faith never
failed. My father, who was not sustained
by the faith many had, suffered extreme
distress of mind at the perilous conditions
surrounding us. Uncle John, seeing he was
an honest man, but lacking faith, buoyed
him up by prophetic words and promises of
relief. I well remember him saying on one
occasion, with considerable vehemence: "I
tell you, Brother Riter, all will come out
well.” These words were a great solace to
me, for young as I was, I shared the appre-
hension of disaster that my father did.
	How great the distress that seemed to
surely be upon us in case the crickets en-
tirely destroyed our crops, may better be
sensed when I tell you that already many
of the people had consumed the scanty sup-
ply of food they had brought across the
plains with them the year before, and were
then living on thistle roots, pig weed, and
segos; it was 1,200 miles to the nearest
food supply at St. Joseph, Missouri, and at
least a year must elapse before food could
be had from that quarter, even if we had
had the money to purchase it, which we had
not. To make matters worse, we knew that
President Young was returning here, fol-
lowed by others of our people, who would
have to be fed from our crops—but how
feed them, if we had no crops? Who can
picture the peril we were in, and, had our
crops been consumed, what would have
been our doom? The fate of the Donner
party would have been but a circumstance
compared with it. There were only 80 of
them, and there were 1,800 of us, to be aug-
mented by 2,500 more, when President
Young (who had returned the year before
to the Missouri river) should arrive with
the immigration of that year. Added to this,
the winter following was one of the coldest
known since our coming here. Can you
wonder that I say, I doubt if any are present
to whom this event has a greater signifi-
cance than to me?
	Some one might pertinently ask: What
has become of those crickets? They grad-
ually diminished in numbers from year to
year, and have now disappeared from Utah.
About twenty years’ ago I saw some in
Tooele valley, near Stockton, and about ten


years ago I saw a few at the mouth of Salt
River, in Wyoming. I believe they have
now entirely vanished.
	Our early legislators enacted into law a
measure protecting the gull, as an acknowl-
edgment that they had been divinely sent
to save us from destruction. On one occa-
sion one of our over-zealous brethern arrest-
ed a poor, hungry Indian for shooting one
of these birds, so great was our veneration
for them. But the Indians, on learning that
we had such great respect for them, soon
learned to respect them also, on our account,
and I never knew one molested after the
event named. 
	Now, as the dove is the sign and emblem
of peace and love, to us at least, let this gull
(pointing to the monument) be the sign of
relief—and mercy.
	In humble reverence let us bow our heads
and acknowledge the mercies of God in our
behalf in the event which the dedication
of this monument celebrates, and also pray
that we may ever live so as to be worthy
of his continuing favor.
	President Joseph F. Smith, in a most in-
teresting manner, related many incidents of
the early trials of the pioneers and read
from old journals the pages telling of the
ravages of the crickets and the almost utter
despair of the people as they saw their crops
being destroyed. He told of his own knowl-
edge of this event in a most forceful and
pathetic way, after which President Smith
offered a beautiful and touching dedicatory
prayer. After the ceremonies the throng of
people wandered around the grounds for
some time, studying with admiration the
pictured tablets of the monument. Alto-
gether the incident was one long to be re-
membered.
	The monument consists of a granite
pedestal supporting a granite column about
30 feet high, on the top of which is a large
granite ball and the birds. The birds are
done in bronze covered with gold leaf. On
the sides of the pedestal are bronze tablets
which give a picture account of the scenes
leading up to the coming of the gulls. One
shows the pioneers entering the valley, an-
other has a harvest scene, a third shows a
dejected family with the gulls flying among
them, while on the fourth is inscribed
“Erected in Grateful Remembrance of the
Mercy of God to the Mormon Pioneers.”


