		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	At 2 p. m. the conference was resumed
by the choir singing, “Lord wilt Thou hear
me when I pray.” Prayer by Brother
Ephraim Coombs. Singing by the Manassa
Relief Society.
	Minutes of Relief Society Stake Confer-
ence held at Manassa Aug. 6, 1912, were
read. Misses D. A. Molerup of Salt Lake
City and Mary Thompson of Idaho, two
lady missionaries in the Western States
Mission and at present located at Alamosa,
Colo., reported briefly their experiences in
the mission field.
	Stake President Erastus S. Christensen
felt to appreciate the opportunity of listen-
ing to two lady missionaries report ther
labors. Spoke of the prophecies of, old, how
they are being fulfilled; how the Gospel is
being spread, also dwelt upon the organiza-
tion; felt indeed pleased for the fact of hav-
ing our great and beloved Sister Wells in
our midst. We were then favored with a
song by Sister Leah Block. President Wells
spoke of the history of the Relief Society;
gave some veiy beautiful instructions to
parents in regard to their childrren, see that
they live worthy of being married in the
Temple. Related a wonderful testimony
that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God,
said she was personally acquainted with him,
remembered seeing the Prophet going to
prison.
	William O. Crowther wished to urge the
work of the Relief Society, also felt to ap-
preciate the splendid Relief Society choir.
	President Harrison felt pleased with our
conference, wished to thank our choir for
furnishing such lovely singing; gave notice
that President Emmeline B. Wells will hold
meeting at Manassa tomorrow at 2 p. m.;
invited all to try and be present.
	Closed our conference by singing “Be it
my only wisdom.”
	Benediction by Bishop Christe Jensen.

	A special session of Relief Society Con-
ference was called for President Emmeline
B. Wells held in Manassa, Colo., in the stake
house, Aug. 12, 1913, President Johanna M.
Harrison presiding.
	Song, “High on the mountain top.”
Prayer by Brother Stephan A. Smith. Sing-
ing, “Guide us O thou great Jehovah.”
	President Harrison made a few opening
remarks, expressed her appreciation in be-
ing blessed with the pleasure of having with
us our beloved President Wells.
	Sister Margaret J. Haskell spoke of her

[Column 3]
acquaintance with Sister Wells for 65 years;
this dear sister has been engaged in this
great and grand work for a great many
years.
	Sister Hannah D. Dalton felt to appre-
ciate the privilege of expressing her appre-
ciation of being blessed with having our be-
loved President Wells with us.
	The Manassa Primary Association sang
a song.
	Brother John A. Smith reported briefly,
his labors as a missionary in the Eastern
States Mission.
	We were then favored with singing by
Sister Artie Rogers.
	President Wells addressed the meeting at
some length; she felt to encourage love and
charity; learn to be kind and good to the
old, also to the poor who are afflicted, see
to it that they are made happy. Guard our
children that they may not go astray; honor
and obey the priesthood. She related some
of her early experiences in the Church, and
bore her testimony that Joseph Smith and
Brigham Young were indeed Prophets of
God.
	Meeting, closed by singing the Doxology.
Prayer by Sister Lena H. Heiselt.  
				BERNECIA ROGERS,
							Stake Sec.


