[Column 2]
	“Aunt Jane will write for Mr. Manning
to come this very day—but even then he
can’t reach here for the party.”
	“Have you any objections, Esther?” her
sister inquired.
	“Just as you please, Jane, but remember
this is your invitation, not mine,” said
Esther emphatically. The letter was dis-
patched, and Alice was eager to see what
this old sweetheart of her auntie’s was like.
and asked numerous questions; but as no
one knew much more than she did, she did
not get much of an idea. Anut Jane had said
though, that to the best of her recollection
he had a very fine figure and a handsome
face.
	Christmas eve came, and the house was
profusely decorated, for the party was to
be quite an elaborate affair for the country
town, and everyone seemed in the gayest of
spirits, except Aunt Esther, who went from
room to room, seemingly without any object
in view. Later on in the evening, when all
the guests had arrived, and the refreshments
had been served and abundantly partaken
of, a sharp ring from the old-fashioned
knocker, vibrated through the house, and
startled the company. “Who can it be at
this late hour?” said two or three in a
breath but they had not long to wait. A
stranger muffled to the chin in furs, and
covered with snow, stood in the hallway;
and in every adjacent doorway, the guests
crowded to see the newcomer. Mr. Weth-
erell guesed who he was and took him into
his, room, a sort of office, or what now-a-
days would be styled, a den. Some ex-
planations were made by the stranger and
he excused himself for being muffled, by
saying he had been so long accustomed to
a hot climate. Mr. Wetherell treated his
guest to refreshments and after partaking
coffee, etc., he was introduced to the com-
pany assembled there, as an old-time friend
of the hostess. This was a great relief to
Aunt Esther when she heard of it, after-
wards; as she was suffering, meantime, not
knowing what excuse had been made for
his unexpected appearance.
	Mr. Manning was very affable and digni-
fied in manner, and a perfect master of lan-
guage in conversation. His extensive travels
abroad had given him ease and grace in
society, and he took “the castle by storm,”
so to speak. The girls were charmed with
him and the young men were gracious and
deferential. Little he cared for all the re-
spect lavished upon him, from these warm-
hearted country people; he had only eyes
and ears for one, his lost Esther. And she
was nowhere to be seen, she had fled to her
room at the sound of his voice; she could
not meet him in the presence of others.
Finally the music ceased, and the dancers
stepped from the scene of the festivity and
rejoicing, and the family gathered around
the great blazing fire. The night was cold,
and the wind howled outside, and yet within
there was peace and hospitality and good
cheer. When the young people had left the
room, Sidney Manning ventured to inquire
of Jane, whom he had known well twenty
years ago, where her sister Mrs. Danforth
was keeping herself, while all the jollifica-
tion was going on.
	“She is very nervous tonight,” Jane re-
plied, “and extremely sensitive. She cannot
endure much excitement and retired to her
room sometime since.”
	“Indeed,” replied the gentleman, “and
shall I not be able to see her until tomorrow?

[Column 3]
and I have come so far across the sea, and
up here into these rocky hills, for that one
purpose. I must see her for a few mo-
ments; she must not refuse me will you in-
tercede for me Jane? You, who have lived
such peaceful, quiet lives, know little of the
turbulent restlessness of one tossed upon the
fateful sea of uncertainty at one moment
ready to sink, and then a fair sail in sight,
taking courage once more.”
	Mrs. Wetherell’s heart was touched with
compassion, and she promised to try and
persuade Esther to meet him that night, or
morning, for it was now past midnight.
Jane was as good as her word. She en-
treated Esther to see him for a few minutes,
if the hour was even so late; it would be a
pleasure for him.
	“Jane,” said the woman in pitying tones,
“you are mistaken; he will be disappointed;
he thinks to find me the romantic girl he left
when he went away. I am old beyond my
years, and I shall not please his fastidious
taste. It will only be a trial for me, that I
shrink from enduring.”
	“Oh, Esther, do go and let him see that
you are not afraid to meet him.”
	“Yes, Jane; I will go,” said Esther, “for I
am not a moral coward.” And she went
down, as calm and placid as a summer
morning.
	Mr. and Mrs. Wetherell left them to meet
alone, and Aunt Esther walked quietly into
the great, old-fashioned parlor to meet her
fate—her old sweetheart, expecting, she
knew not what sort of reception. But he,
hearing her soft footfall, turned quickly and
reached out his strong arms and clasped her
to his bosom, ere she had time to elude his
grasp. Neither spoke for some minutes, for
their silence was more eloquent than speech,
however daintily fashioned. At last Sidney
Manning repeated her name, but she an-
swered not. “Esther,” said he again, “we
meet once more, and we are both free. I
have waited long for this meeting; have you
nothing to say to me after all these long
years of constancy?”
	Esther felt there was a barrier, even now,
but she could not introduce the subject to-
night—it was too late to enter upon untrod-
den ground. So she only said, in the most
indifferent tone, “You must be very weary,
and my brother-in-law is waiting to show,
you to your room; tomorrow we shall have
time to renew our acquaintance; good night,
Sidney,” and she hurried from the room.
He stood by the mantel and leaned his head
upon his hand in a maze of bewilderment.
He was as much in doubt whether she loved
him or not as any young, inexperienced boy
could be. And yet she did love him pas-
sionately, but she kept the secret in her own
soul, woman-like, determined to prove him,
though she might stake her all of earthly
happiness and find herself the loser.
	During the following day and days after,
Mr. Wetherell opened up conversation with
his guest upon “Mormonism,” of which he
confessed he had never heard before, nor of
Joseph Smith, nor the Book of Mormon; he
was indifferent, he acknowledged, to all re-
ligions. He had busied himself with men,
money and schemes to accumulate wealth
while abroad, and left religion for an after
consideration. Such is the way of the world
in all ages, except in rare instances.
	Esther heard his remarks without com-
ment, but feared a wide gulf was opening
between them, which it would be difficult to
bridge; and she became more and more


