[Column 1]
	“In India, Auntie, well if that isn’t fine, a
rich uncle from India for the holidays after
all. Can’t you invite him to come here,
Aunt Jane?”
	That must be as my sister Esther says,”
she replied. “I should like it very much.”
	“He is not your uncle, Alice,” said Aunt
Esther, “and it’s very improper for you to
call him so, and your Aunt Jane’s house is
full of visitors already.”
	At this Alice subsided for a few moments,
but there was very little breakfast eaten by
any of the ladies that morning. Aunt Jane
recalled one remembrance after another, of
the days when Esther was a child, and it
was all very interesting for the young folks.
Alice declared it was just what she always
had thought, from fragments Polly had
dropped now and then, though how she had
found it out no one could tell, and now it
had come out accidentally and just what
she had begged Aunt Esther to tell her
about herself.
	The party Aunt Jane had intended to give
in honor of her visitors, had been postponed
from one time to another on some pretext,
and the night before the arrival of Aunt
Esther’s queer letter, the host and hostess
had come to the conclusion it should come
off on Christmas eve; it was to have been
discussed at the breakfast table when all the
family were together, but the unfortunate
letter had put it entirely out of Aunt Jane’s
mind, and upon rising from the table Aunt
Esther had gone to her room, presumably
to read her letter from home. Poor Aunt
Esther, here was another dilemma. Polly
wrote that Mr. Manning had come uncere-
moniously to the Wren’s Nest, and finding
Mrs. Danforth absent, had inquired of her
whether her mistress had received a foreign
letter recently; and she had answered truth-
fully that she had; then he wanted to know
if any message had been left for him, and
she told him there was none. Next, when
she had gone, and when she was expected
home. She had gone to M—, in Frank-
lin County, to her sister’s, Mrs. Wetherell,
and as to her return, it was indefinite. Then
Polly said, “he asked me to let him write a
letter, and would I write one and enclose it
in mine, and I hope, my dear mistress, you
will not be offended, for he seemed so sad
an disappointed that you were not here,”
and having ,finished Polly’s letter, which
contained little else, Esther Danforth broke
the seal of the other. There is always a
sort of charm about a pretty seal and it adds
to the interest of a letter’s contents. But
this letter was a “love letter,” indeed. He
accused her of running away from him and
warned her that he should follow her to the
ends of the earth, if need be: reminded her
of walks and rambles they had taken to-
gether in the beautiful past, and of the
kisses he had stolen from her sweet lips.
He seemed to have forgotten that she was
a matronly woman now, and he no longer
the young lover, nor the “little sweetheart.”
The longer Esther stayed and pondered
over the letter, the more bewildered she
grew. She could not see him there, it would
be worse than being at home; there, so many
would not be looking on.
	She had half a mind to pack her trunk
and go back, but that seemed impracticable;
and wavering between this and that, she
knelt and prayed for wisdom. A sweet
peace came with the prayer and she joined
the family group in the sitting room. Alice
explained, as soon as her aunt came in:

