[Column 2]
very unsatisfactory; but they did not lose
courage. Alice was using all her eloquence
at home to persuade Richard Ashburn to
join the Church of Latter-day Saints, and
her efforts were not in vain. Before many
days she had the satisfaction of knowing
that he had esqoused the same religious
faith.
	Of all those who had been converted
Aunt Esther was really the most zealous
and content. Heretofore she had not been
religiously inclined, but she had had many
msigivings with regard to a step she ever
contemplated taking, though she had main-
tained her reputation and escaped almost
miraculously from falling into disgrace.
She knew, as no one else did, or could
know, how she had been tempted to leave
her husband’s house forever, and go into a
foreign land with the man she loved, with
all the fervor of youthful attachment, but
whom her parents had not allowed her to
marry. He had come to her at a time when
she had felt the most desperate, had read
her heart, when her whole soul revolted
against the bondage she was undergoing,
and urged her to fly with him; and she had
even tried to persuade herself that the step
Sidney Manning entreated her to take, was
no more a sin in the sight of heaven, than
the domestic life she was compelled to live,
with the husband to whom she was bound
by marriage vows. Some good angel stood
by her then, and at the last moment, as it
were, when all had been cautiously arranged
and her lover was waiting in anxious ex-
pectancy, she finally resolved to preserve her
honor and that of her husband, and remain
true to her womanhood, and to her mar-
riage vows and suffer wrong, rather than
commit an act that would forever debar her
from associations of the friends she loved;
and an error, too, which to her now thor-
oughly awakened consciousness of its gross
wickedness, she felt sure would end in de-
spair and hopeless degradation. And as a
last resort she sent her faithful maid alone,
in the dead silence of the night, to tell her
old sweetheart that she could not consent
to go with him, and he must never attempt
to see her again. Poor Polly, she never
dared to tell her mistress all the dreadful
things Sidney Manning said, there in the
darkness, when she delivered her message.
And so that part of the romance ended, and
he went far away, and finally secured a
position in a mercantile house in India, and
amassed wealth, for it was the lack of riches
that had deprived him of his darling Esther,
and he was determined to accumulate means
enough to make her a home suited to her
circumstances, should she ever be free again
to choose for herself. And he would wait
until that time came, always believing in
her affection and trusting in his knowledge
of her character. He esteemed her far
more for the sacrifice she made in giving
him up, when in his mistaken sense of right
he would have stolen another man’s wife.
She had saved herself and him, too, and
when far away from her in a foreign land,
and meditating upon her loveliness of char-

[Column 3]
acter, he could appreciate the strength and
fortitude she manifested in withstanding
the great temptation.
	When Sidney Manning heard of the sud-
den death of Esther’s husband, he had mas-
tered his feelings to such an extent that he
did not rejoice; and he waited on, wonder-
ing if she would make any sign to him, any
recognition of her first promise that she had
never redeemed. But she did not, she was
too proud for that, and the impulsive girl
had changed into a well-developed woman.
So after a time he wrote, and Esther Dan-
forth took months to deliberate before re-
plying; and when she did write, was care-
ful not to make any sort of compromise.
Had it not been for the thrilling episode in
their lives, that came near ending in a trag-
edy, she would have acted differently; now
she was doubly reserved. Bye and bye, he
wrote again, then she said, “Wait,” and he
had waited long enough, he thought, for her,
and too long, by far, for him.
	One morning at breakfast time, Uncle
William handed Aunt Esther a letter, in
Polly’s handwriting, which gave her no con-
cern, but as she opened it, another letter fell
out upon the table. Alice caught it up think-
ing it might be for her, but Esther had seen
the name, and knew instantly that it was
from her old sweetheart.
	“Excuse me, Aunt Esther,” said Alice, “it
is for you after all, but such a peculiar hand,
looks like foreign paper; but there’s no post-
mark. There must be visitors at the
Wren’s Nest—what does Polly say?”
	There was no help for it, Aunt Esther
must answer, her face was flushing she
knew and, trying to be as calm as possible,
turning to her sister, who was eyeing her
very closely, she stammered out, “Sidney—
Mr. Manning—I mean, he’s returned from
abroad.”
	“And pray who is Sidney—Mr. Manning,
Auntie?”
	Before she could reply, Aunt Jane had
spoken for her,
	“Your Aunt Esther’s old sweetheart
Alice!”
	Mrs. Danforth protested and blushed a
deeper crimson; but the secret was out nev-
ertheless, and Alice was delighted.
	“O, that’s what Polly meant when she
said you had a romance in your life.”
	“What can Polly know of my sister’s
sweetheart? She was nothing but a child
when this affair with Sidney Manning oc-
curred, that was why we all called him
Esther’s sweetheart. Father and mother
didn’t approve of children being engaged,
and broke the matter off, and my sister was
sent away from home to cure her. But I
always had an idea it was a kind of hope-
less case, for he never married, at least we
never heard of it, and as for Esther, she is
blushing to the very tips of her ears, for all
the world like a young girl of 16, and she’s
six and thirty.”
	“Isn’t it enough to make any one blush,
to have such things repeated in one’s pres-
ence. I wish Sidney Manning had stayed
in India.”


