[Column 2]
the new religion as she called it, and when,
shortly after, some elders, who had visited
Boston, came out to Mrs. Danforth’s, who
lived a little way out in the suburbs, both of
them were ready for baptism. Others of her
neighbors, too, believed; among them the
Elmores, which was a source of joy to Aunt
Esther and Alice, especially because of
Harry.
	Sidney Manning and Richard Ashburn
were not long away from the Wren’s Nest
after its mistress returned, and many pleas-
ant evenings were spent there, happily for
all except Aunt Esther, who felt too keenly
the risk she was running; for she had known
by intuition all along, that her old sweet-
heart, as he had been christened by the
young folks, was not favorable to her views
upon religion, and to her nature it seemed a
positive necessity. He wanted her exclu-
sively, and that only he declared would sat-
isfy him. But she was different and her
needs were greater; she, too, wanted his
love and something higher and purer. Day
after day the struggle went on, until Alice’s
marriage. Then the calmness was ruffled
a little, when Mr. Manning insisted upon
their marriage on the same day with Alice
and Richard. Esther made such an em-
phatic resistance, that it came near destroy-
ing their friendly relations for the future.
	It would be quite impossible here to de-
scribe in detail the particulars of Alice’s
wedding, but suffice to say, she had every-
thing she desired and was a perfect picture
of loveliness herself. The Elmore girls were
her bridesmaids, and young Mr. Wetherell,
her cousin, was Richard’s best man. Her
rich uncle from India, as she playfully called
Mr. Manning, gave her an elegant India
shawl and several odd and pretty ornaments.
After the wedding, Mr. Manning still con-
tinued his visits to the Wren’s Nest, and as
time went on, he grew impatient of the de-
lay or the fulfillment of the dream of his
life, and used all the powers of persuasion
he possessed to get Esther to name the
happy day. At last Esther summoned all
her courage and assured him it could never
be. It almost broke her heart, the inward
struggle was so great, but she saw with a
woman’s keen intuition that her happiness
would not be secured by giving way to this
earthly love that clashed with her religion,
and she knew herself to be equal to the oc-
casion. For her “old sweetheart,” as every
one had come to call him now, she felt
deeply; he had staked all and was about to
lose. He had no faith to lean upon, and
while she talked to him, this great, strong
man sobbed like a child. When he recov-
ered himself sufficiently to speak, he said:
	“Esther, my darling, if you should change
your mind, if you should be unhappy and
want me, or if misfortune should come to
you, don’t hesitate to come to me or send
for me. I will come if I am living. I would
marry you notwithstanding the doubts you
entertain of our happiness, but I cannot
take you unless you are wholly satisfied.
And now I must go away. I dare not linger
near you, I should be desperate,” and he
caught her in his arms, showered her with
burning kisses, and the hot tears fell like
rain upon her face. A moment more, and
he was gone—fled from her forever. She
did not dare look after him, lest she should
call him back, and have to go over the same
scene again. It was over, and her “sweet-
heart” had left her. She sank upon the sofa
and gave way to a passionate burst of grief.

[Column 3]
	And now Esther’s sweetheart has gone,
we must draw our story to a close. There
is little more to tell. Poor Aunt Esther went
about her daily duties as before, only she
grew more and more tender and lovable.
For some years letters came regularly from
India, and occasionally some valuable gift.
Twice she wrote to him upon Gospel sub-
jects. She did not dare trust her pen to
speak for her of other things. By and by
the letters ceased coming and then she knew
Sidney Manning was dead. She remained
constant in her devotion to her old sweet-
heart, and never married after, though she
had many opportunities. She devoted her
time, her means, and her energies, all to
doing good for others in the household of
faith, and many there were who received
blessings at her hands.
