[Column 1]
THE MONUMENT TO THE GULLS.
	The morning of October second wit-
nessed one of the prettiest incidents in the
history of Utah, the occasion of the un-
veiling of the Sea Gull Monument. Long
before the time stated for the ceremonies,
a throng of people had assembled on the
Temple Square to witness the unveiling. On
a temporary platform were seated the First
Presidency and other Church officials, the
sculptor Mahonri M. Young, Senator
Smoot, and Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, who
had been selected to draw the cords for the
unveiling of the monument. Presiding
Bishop Charles W. Nibley was master of
ceremonies and after a selection by the
Tabernacle Choir introduced Mrs. Wells to
the assembled throng. We take the liberty
of quoting this part of the proceedings from
one of the daily papers; it read as fol-
lows—
	Shorty before eleven’ o’clock this morning
an aged, sweet-faced woman, whom Bishop
C. W. Nibley referred to as a young lady of
21 years was assisted from the speakers’
stand in the temple grounds, to the spot
where were the several ropes which held
two large American flags draped about the
monument.
	Following a short but beautiful speech,
she pulled gentlv at two of the ropes and
one of the flags slowly floated to the ground
below. The crowd bared their heads and a
few seconds later the second flag fell to the
ground. The woman was Mrs. Emmeline
B. Wells, beloved president of the Relief
Society. Mrs. Wells said she witnessed the
devastation of the first crops bv the crick-
ets. She has told the story manv times of
how the thousands of gulls came to the val-
ley when the little band of pioneers had al-
most given up hope that the crops would
be saved. She was a young girl in those
days, but the picture of the gulls flying
from the Great Salt Lake, and how they
gorged the crickets was always vivid in her
mind. She further said: “It is a poetic
coincidence that our idea of national free-
dom from oppression, and our idea of state
deliverance from starvation, should be rep-
resented by birds. The eagle, maiestic mon-
arch of the air, is represented on shield and
coin and tablets of bronze all over the broad
land. The gentle gull, humble habitant of
the shores of our Great Salt Sea, has found
a shrine heretofore only in the grateful
memories of this valley’s pioneers and their
descendants. My heart swells with thanks-

