[WomansExponent | Vol39 | 1910 | March | Issue: 8 | Title: MARCH. | Author: Unknown]

MARCH.
	(Dedicated to my Girls and Boys.)
O March, thou’st brought so many joys to me
That I must praise, e’en though I disagree
With all the poets, who have chose thee theme
Of thought and pen, day-vision or night-dream.

They say thou’rt blustering and thy chilling
	winds
Freeze up the fountains, stream and river binds,
O’er everything thou blow’st thy hoary breath,
And coverest earth as with white pall of death.

But with thy howling winde comes bleat of
	lamb,
And thou’rt in travail, to bring forth again
The verdant green that peeps through melting
	snow;
Thy groans bring forth the spring ere thou
	dost go.


Yet not of these my pen would tell today,
But of two babes thou in my arms didst lay;
On different days and years came such sweet
	bliss,
But they were mine to give a mother’s kiss.

But ere they came to earth, upon my head
A blessing was pronounced, and this was said:
Be comforted, thou’lt live to pee go forth
Thy sons, on missions to the sons of earth.

And as each one was laid upon my breast,
’Twas healing balm from heaven, full and
	pressed,
My heart went up to Father, glad that He
Had thought me worthy of such gifts to be.

O how my heart-strings wound around each
	son,
Children of promise, sent Life’s race to run
Under my guidance, counsel and control,
Could I, with all my weakness, aid each soul

To grow, expand, aspire, achieve, and be
All that I longed and hoped in them to see?
And daily prayers went up to Father’s throne
That my part might be well, and faithful done.

Two boys sent by the Father from above;
Four souls to lead, guide, cherish, aid and love,
For two plus two lisped, mother, round my
	knee,
But dear old March brought promised sons to
	me.

Then, too, in March came I myself to earth,
And Gladys, first wee grandchild, had her birth;
Six, twelve, sixteen, and twenty-six, the days
We each remember and on which each pays

A tender tribute from a loving heart,
Which binds us closer as the years depart;
Greetings across the seas I send today,
To one dear boy on mission far away.

O Father, keep him safe from every ill,
Grant him the strength, the power, to do Thy
	will.
Help him, in cause of Truth, to valiant be,
Each added year, more filled with love of
	Thee.

And for my firstborn son my prayers ascend,
That he to all Life’s duties may attend,
Prize, hold his birthright as of costly worth,
And stand a savior of his race on earth.

Not lesser loved were firstborn girls I ween,
Each to my soul have joy and anchor been,
Companion, friend, Ive found in daughter, son.
And life has been the richer for each one.
						—Nellie Becraft.


