[WomansExponent | Vol39 | 1910 | March | Issue: 8 | Title: Sketch of Julia P. Lindsay | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

SKETCH OF JULIA P. LINDSAY.
		(Continued from page 47.)
	While we were at Pisgah there came a
call for five hundred of our brethren to go
to form a battalion. My husband was called
to be one of this number. This seemed
quite a trial for me after his being so long
away, but I was willing that he should go.
After he had gone I felt very lonely, and
one day there was a sister whose home
was not far from us, came over to see us.
She was a stranger to us but all felt pleased
to see her. She possessed such a good in-
fluence and asked me if I would sing. I
had such a bad cold I could not sing so she
arose, came to me and placed her hands up-
on my head and blessed me. She told me
to let my heart be comforted for I should
live to see my husband return home and
that I would have many things made known
to me in dreams and that I should live to
see many happy days in time and in eter-
nity with my husband. This was a great
comfort to me.
	In a few weeks my husband returned as
the company was completed without him
when they reached Council Bluffs. Our
next thought was what to do, we were there
without provisions for the winter and had
no means to go to the Valley. Their fath-
er’s family had grown tired of living in
Wisconsin and thought it best to go back to
their old home and get money to go to the
Valley. Accordingly we started in August
for Wisconsin, a distance of several hun-
dred miles. There were four grown people
and a babe ten months old. I had some very
singular feelings when we started back, I
knew we could not go to the Valley with-
out money and other provisions, and I tried
to think it would be all for the best and that
God would bless our labor and we should
again return and go to the Valley. There
are a few incidents which happened on this
journey that I will relate. We had trav-
eled that day until quite late and thought
we would camp a mile out of town where
feed for the cattle was plentiful. We in-
tended to get up early and go into the city
before breakfast. In the morning our cat-
tle could not be found. We hunted all day
and at night my brother-in-law said to me,
“I wish you would dream tonight where
our cattle are.” In the morning I asked
him if they had looked back of a large field
which was about a mile away. They said
they had looked that field over. I told them
I had dreamed that I saw the cattle lying
down by the field. They went to the field
again and found the cattle lying down as
I had dreamed of them. They had entered
the field, eaten all they wanted, came out
and laid down. After traveling a few days
we were to cross a prairie some twenty-
five miles in width. One road if followed
would take us the right way and make our
journey shorter. We started, but as we
traveled the road marks became dim so that
we could scarcely see where to go. Night
came on and we camped without either wa-
ter or wood in a great prairie in a strange
land. That night I dreamed that when we
were ready to again proceed on our journey
the brother handed my husband the whip
and asked him to drive while he went to
find a road. He walked about half a mile
and stopped, and I suppose he had found a
road. When we came up to him the road
was plain to be seen and he said, I have
found a road but I do not know which way


to go.” I said to him, “Which way do you
think is best.” His answer was, “The north
road.” I said I did not think it, to be the
best road. He seemed determined to go
that way, but I said if you will go half a
mile my way and you do not see any signs
of improvements I will be willing to go the
way you said. At last he said that as it
would not take long he would try my way.
I dreamed we soon reached a fence and a
house. We found the house to be a short
distance from the state road. If we had
gone north the road would have led us twen-
ty-five miles into a dense forest. I awoke
in the morning and as the two brothers were
preparing to start I told my sister-in-law
my dream and cautioned her not to tell the
boys but to wait and see if things led up to
the dream. Everything that I had dreamed
was fulfilled just as I have related. We were
soon on the right road and in a few days ar-
rived at our destination. We found father
and mother both sick in bed. They had not
known we were coming but had heard of
their son’s call to the battalion and feared
they would never see them again. The
family were very much overjoyed at seeing
us, although I had not met them before I
felt satisfied. I felt to thank my Heavenly
Father for His kindness and protection on
our journey.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
