[WomansExponent | Vol39 | 1910 | March | Issue: 8 | Title: THE CROSS. | Author: Alfred Lambourne, author, poet and]

THE CROSS.
	HOLLY AND EASTER LILIES.
	I have before me the latest book issued
by Alfred Lambourne, author, poet and
artist. The title of the book appears above
and is specially significant in its meaning
of the subject matter of this artistic volume,
beautifully bound in superfine leather,
printed on a superior quality of paper, in-
deed everything pertaining to the book it-
self bespeaks fineness to a degree of excel-
lence, so much so, that one hesitates to
make a notice, lest it should not be equal
to the nature of the work, either in general
outside appearance, or the merit of the
poems therein contained.
	So extremely perfect in every line and so
exquisite the design of the setting, so extra-
ordinary is the work in its entirety that
even the pen of a ready writer would
scarcely be able to do justice to the matter;
in fact we can only recall Edward W. Tul- 
lidge of the past, as one who would have
been equal to the elegant manner of ex-
pression, of the delicately written sentences
and the outward appearance of this unique
work of art and literary merit.
	This book is the second edition of a mem-
orial poem dedicated to the departed wife
of the author, Wilhelmina Marie; it is lim-
ted to one hundred copies, not one of
which will be sold, as the writer has de-
clared in his preface: “This book to be
purchased neither with silver nor gold, nor
precious stones, nor aught of that which
perisheth, but to be given in her memory,
without money and without price, in the
name of Love.”
	As there will be no more copies printed,
and being one of the favored one hundred,
the writer feels it her duty to attempt tell-
ing something of the beauty and refinement
of the symmetry and rhythm as well as the
tenderness and withal the vivid power of
the poem in its perfection. 
	It is certainly helpful in one’s excess of
grief to be able to give expression to sor-
row in lyrical lines, that will benefit other
human hearts who have not the gift of
poesy, yet who feel as deeply and suffer
as intensely, yet have not the language to
clothe such sentiments and thus relieve the
inner impulses of the aching fibers of the
heart.
	Evidently the author has made the great-
est poetic effort of his life for the one
woman in whose companionship, he must
have realized the fulness of the felicity
which crowns the union of two beings, whose
lives are so perfectly and harmoniously
blended, as to make home a paradise on
earth.
	To those who comprehend the highest
form of poetic composition this rare book
would doubtless be considered a perfect
gem in literature. Certainly its literary ex-
cellence cannot be questioned.
	The book opens with the portrait of the
departed wife “Wilhelmina Marie,” and the
verses express the agony and excessive
grief of the heart-broken husband with such
depth of sorrow at the parting, as is difficult
to portray, or to give an idea of in delicate,
sympathetic language.
	Each page opens with an art letter and
beautiful floral design in the corner. Each
art design marks a decided change of
thought. Three introductory verses ad-
dressed to the departed “soul of his soul,”

[Column 2]
as it were, were written at Easter-time.
First section deals with the Easter-time
singing of hymns; second sudden change of
thought, and funeral of a little child.
Third speaks of direct influence of the beau-
tiful, and the passing away of art and sta-
tuary, palaces, temples in all the magnificent
cities of the world. The next part deals
with the heathen gods and beliefs of the in-
habitants of the ancient cities; most unique
in its minutest details.
	The fifth, the passing away of all the
faiths, and philosophies, mentions Plato by
name, also Buddha, and with solemnity and
reverence speaks of Christ the man of God,
and the final decision, an appeal for true
divine love, sympathy and charity and for
that brotherhood which will unite the finite
and infinite. Grandly and loftily the poet
sings, pleading for the justice and mercy that
shall yet encompass the World, referring ta
the Babe of Bethlehem who, though in lowly
guise He came, conquered death and rose
from the grave.
	In the most pathetic words the author
gives a description of the Easter lily, its
purity and beauty, and compares it with the
Life of Christ, and finally expresses the hope
that the teachings of Christ will become the
universal thought that will conquer all evil
flooding the world with glory.
	The poem as a whole covers a period of
a little over sixteen years until the last line
of the last verse, and was written in the
rapture of the supreme moments of sorrow,
perhaps in a manner similar to the writing
of “The Raven.”
	How could one have the audacity to at-
tempt a literary notice of such a poem! But
one can refer to Tennyson’s “In Mem-
oriam” even though they are unlike, but
we will say to the writer of this wonderful
poem, men are most triumphant when most
tested; and that shattered violins picked up
in foreign lands, when mended and in the
hands of a skilful master, make sweeter mu-
sic than ever before being broken and shat-
tered; and so the heart torn by sorrow and
anguish may sing in more lofty and clearer
notes and in even sweeter cadences, than
when young and brave and strong, he was
capable of undertaking.
	Alfred Lambourne’s life is richer by far
for writing this book, and he could not have
written this wonderful poem, if he had not
passed through the exquisite pain that opens
the flood-gates of man’s deepest emotions.
	The poem will live in the years to come,
and his name will be perpetuated long after
he has passed to the home from which no
traveler ever returns.


