[Work Meeting: Orderly and Convenient Storage Areas by Rhea H. Gardner]

Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Orderly and Convenient Storage Areas Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, February 10, 1953 i AMPLE storage space is essential to order and ease in managing the home.
Enough space, however, is not the only consideration. It must be the right kind of space located in a convenient place. This LESSON DEPARTMENT means that the space should be adapted to the specific articles that are to be placed in it.
Each item should be readily visible when doors are opened, and easily removed when needed. The principle of storage according to place of first use, is just as important in other rooms as it is in the kitchen.
Precious time, and many steps will be saved if everything is stored near where it is first used.
Convenience is an inducement to orderliness.
Order is much more likely to be maintained if it requires no extra effort.
Even the untidy person should find it so convenient to replace things, that the articles he uses make their way back to the right place almost in spite of his careless habits. Drawers Neat, orderly dresser drawers make dressing easier, because articles can be found easily and are always in condition to wear. Frequently, dresser drawers are too deep for orderly and convenient arrangement. You may remedy this situation by attaching cleats on the inside of the drawer to hold a tray. The tray should be no more than half the length of the drawer.
This makes it possible to slide it from side to side as articles in the bottom part of the drawers are needed. The depth of the sliding tray will depend upon what you plan to store in it and the total depth of your drawer. Any inexpensive wood that can be sanded smooth, or some composition boards, are suitable for this purpose.
They may be given a natural finish, enameled, padded with attractive easy to clean fabrics, 767 or just lined with material that is suitable for color and design.
Drawer dividers are also useful in keeping different things separated, or articles of a kind together.
Dividers may be only boxes of different sizes and shapes fitted neatly and snugly into the drawer, or they may be of wood held in place with cleats.
Even the lids of firmly constructed boxes may be used in shallow drawers.
Linen and Bedding Storage The problem in planning storage for linen and bedding is to organize and divide space so that any one article may be reached without moving others.
Sliding shelves or trays may be placed between regular shelves when they are more than twelve inches apart.
Otherwise a stacking of dissimilar articles, or a waste of space, is likely to result. The efficient homemaker will develop a plan for folding the linen so it will fit the space planned for 'it, Clothing Storage Proper care of clothing, while it is in storage, will do much to prolong its life and beauty. Self-made, or movable commercial-type closets are worth considering if a shortage of space is your problem.
They will more than pay for the cost in prolonged life and beauty of garments. It is easy to hang up a coat if there is a closet nearby. You will want one at both front and rear doors.
With some low rods and hooks, children are encouraged to hang up their own clothes.
Shelves above the children's rod _ provide space for sweaters, caps, and mittens. 768 If you keep things off the floor in the closet, it will be easy to dust the floor and keep it clean.
Place shoes on racks, or in shoe bags fastened to the closet wall or the inside of the door. The back of closet doors may be used for storing a variety of things, such as hats, shoes, and ties.
Equipment for these can be purchased or made at home. An umbrella rack and a rack for purses could also be placed there. Other Closets Storage space needed in the living, dining, sewing, and bathroom will depend upon your own personal needs and the activities of your family.
Arrange storage space in each room to suit things that are used there, as, for instance, a towel rack low enough for children to reach. Built-in storage units are usually less expensive and require less space than the movable kind. Orderly Habits All the conveniences in the world will not make homes orderly unless the people who live in them have a desire to be orderly. The orderly way is the easiest way, because there is less wasted energy.
Order is ennobling; disorder restricts and confuses.
Money helps to make order possible, but it is surprising what can be done without it where there is initiative and creative ability.
Some homemakers were asked, "What is the secret for order in your home?"
Here are. A few of their answers: 1.
Take time to plan my work.
Each week I spend a few minutes planning menus I wish to serve my family during the coming week, with the necessary market list.
This eliminates last-minute trips to the store, a lot of leftovers in the  refrigerator, and delayed medls due to last-minute planning. My children and I plan the cleaning work on a weekly basis.
Certain parts of the house are cleaned each week. We hardly know we have done any extra work, and the house is never turned - topsy-turvy by an overall housecleaning once or twice each year. 2. In our home we have a regular time for doing each task. We like to begin each day with the family kneeling in family prayer before partaking of a healthful, appetizing breakfast.
Such a beginning seems to put us in a state of readiness for the tasks that are to follow.. A.
Family breakfast at a regular time makes it possible for me to put my house in order early in theday, and to be free to use my time for other tasks. It also makes it easy and natural for other meals and other tasks to follow in an orderly way. 3. The credit for order in our home is equally shared by all family members. As a family group, each of us, from the three-year-old up, knows what his responsibilities are in the care and the management of our home. My husband and I try to make orderly habits important. Our children are rewarded with words of praise when they do things well.
Conveniences are planned for their rooms, as needed, to help make being orderly easy.
Most of them are planned and made by children and parents working together. 4. It was the practice in my childhood home, for each person to put everything he had used during the day, in its nght place before retiring.
This practice has been carried over into our home.
With each person doing his share, no one is over-burdened. The children always know where to find their clothes when they arise, because each has a certain place he puts them when he goes to bed.
Thoughts for Discussion 1.
What is the secret for order in your house? 2.
Recent studies showed that fatigue is more often the result of working where there is disorder than the output of physical energy. 3.
Discuss the relationship of disorder to irritability. ud ath rate = The Discuss the relationship of disorder to irritability.