[Heart at Rest by Beatrice K. Ekman]

heart: And ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light" (Matt. 11:28-30). One of the surest means of bringing joy unto the soul is to obey the second great commandment, "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself."
Ministering to another's need fills the soul with joy. But if we refuse a call, what despondency and turmoil crowd the soul! Brigham Young once asked "What will give a man joy?" His answer was "That which will give him peace" (Discourses of Brigham Young, p. 362). The words of Alma state the truth, "Wickedness never was happiness." We will never find joy in living ¥ * _  after the manner of the world, for the Lord commands us "'to lay aside the things of the world" (D. & C. 25:10). As we grow older, true values become more apparent and a greater realization comes to us of the necessity to spend our time in the pursuit of "virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, and holiness." The words of Brigham Young sound a warning and a promise: "The only heaven for us is that which you make yourselves. My heaven is here (laying his hand upon his heart). I carry it with me" (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 362). We must carry our own joy with us in our souls, received continually by prayer to the Lord and by living the commandments. The joy in the knowledge of the gospel and the living of it is beyond that of everything else. May each of us here prove in our own lives the truth of the words "Men are, that they might have joy" is my prayer. + & Let Us Tlagnify Our Callings and &nlarge Our Souls [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 2, 1952] Counselor Velma N. Simonsen HIS is a frightening experience, to stand in this great building and address this vast audience of Relief Society women. I pray that the Lord will bless me that I may overcome some of my great fear, that I may say some word that will inspire us to be more valiant in helping to build his kingdom here upon the earth. Recently, I had occasion to reread the minutes of the early Relief Society meetings in which the Prophet Joseph Smith gave counsel and instructions for the guidance of the Relief Society. I was impressed LET US MAGNIFY OUR CALLINGS by the number of times he admonished us to "expand our souls" and to "magnify our callings." "Everyone should aspire to magnify his own office, meekness, love, purity, these are the things that should magnify us." And "Let your hearts expand, let them be enlarged toward others." And again, "You must enlarge your souls toward others." I wonder if we are neglecting this counsel: to enlarge our souls, to magnify our offices? The vast majority of us here today hold the important calling of mothers and homemakers.
This is a calling we must constantly endeavor to magnify. It will certainly enlarge our souls.
Most of us have personally experienced the glories of motherhood and the joy that comes of homemaking, but are we consciously magnifying that calling in the sight of our daughters? I am sure we need to do so.
Last week, in talking to a young mother, I mentioned that I was to talk in Relief Society conference. She said, "Please say something to the mothers about the need for them to teach their daughters the importance of being homemakers." She said that among her friends the greatest cause for unhappiness and discontent that she had observed was in girls feeling that they had given up remunerative, interesting, and important positions or careers in the business world to become what they termed "mere housekeepers."
Just yesterday I met another young friend who recently married and moved to another state to live. She was home on a visit. I asked her how she was enjoying her new home. She said, "I am having a He said, 725 wonderful time.
Most of the friends I have met do not have any children, the few that do have children have very good baby tenders, so we play golf or tennis in the mornings and bridge in the afternoons. It is a great life if I do not get fed up with it." Of course she will get "fed up" with what she is doing.
Golf and tennis are fine recreational activities, but anything in excess is not good; and they are not activities that are worth the full time of a Latter-day Saint wife. But she will find herself, for I know her Latterday Saint mother, and her training has been for something better than for that which she is doing. Mothers, let us teach our daughters the glories of true motherhood, the joys of homemaking, and the responsibilities that go along with such a career. Brigham Young (in his discourses) tells us that women have great influence, that besides being the mainspring and soul of our being, they wield a great influence in guiding the destinies and lives of men upon the earth. He says, "The mothers are the moving instruments in the hands of Providence to guide the destinies of nations." He also says that we should use that influence in training our children in the way they should go, and if we fail to do this, we assume fearful responsibilities (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 308-309). Sisters, we also have the great blessing of sharing the Priesthood with our husbands and sons. Are we magnifying that office by helping our sons or our husbands to honor their callings? Do we make it easy and pleasant for them to at- 

726  tend their Priesthood meetings and to fulfill their Priesthood assignments, thereby showing our appreciation of this great blessing? A short time ago my husband and I, with some friends, were guests in the home of a wealthy widow. As we were leaving her home we thanked her for her gracious and bounteous hospitality. She said, "Do not thank me, I am the receiver tonight, for you have brought into my home the influence and spirit of the Priesthood." One _of the sisters said, "I know what you mean." She replied, "Oh, no you don't, there is not one of you women here who knows what I mean, for you have always had the Priesthood in your homes through your fathers or your husbands. My husband was not a member of the Church and, although we have had great material wealth, there has never been a time when I would not have gladly given it all to have had my husband hold the Priesthood." Sisters, let us study and pray that — we might know the great blessing which is ours, and that we might magnify our callings as sharers of the Priesthood. Too often we are not aware of the importance of our position as women and members of the Church. Too often we feel that if we are not especially called to some position of prominence we have little opportunity to do good, or that our work is of little value or consequence. The story is told of some children who went to glean in a wheat field.
Most of the children worked steadily, but there was one who seemingly wasted much of his time visiting with other children and admiring nature.
When evening came, the angel of the wheat field called to the children to bring in their sheaves to the gate. So the children came.
Some had _ great piles laid close and even; some had large, loose sheaves that looked more than they were; but the child that had run after the butterflies came empty-handed. The angel said, "Where are your sheaves?" The child hung his head and said, "I had some, but I have lost them, I know not how." "None enters this gate without sheaves," said the angel. | tata that," said the child, "but I came to see where the others were going, besides the children would not leave me behind."
Then all the children cried out together. One said "Dear angel, let him in.
This morning I was sick.
This child came and showed me the butterflies and I forgot my pain. And he also gave me of his sheaves."
Another said, "Dear angel, let him in! At noon the sun beat on my head so fiercely that I fainted and fell down; this child brought water to revive me and was so glad and merry that my strength returned. He gave me also of his sheaves." And a third said, "Just now, as evening was coming, I was weary and sad, and had so few sheaves that it seemed hardly worth my while to go on working, but this child comforted me, and gave me of his sheaves. Look! It may be that this sheaf is his." LET US MAGNIFY OUR CALLINGS ANP all the children said, ""We too have sheaves of his, dear angel, let him in, we pray you." The angel smiled and reached his hand inside the gate and: brought out a pile of sheaves. It was not large, but the glory of the sun was on it so that it seemed to brighten the whole field. "Here are his sheaves," said the angel. "They are known and counted every one." And he said to the child, "Lead the way in."
Recently a humble, retiring sister whom I had loved passed away. As I was preparing to go to her funeral, the thought came to me, "I wish more people had known this dear sister as I knew her for her many small acts of kindness to me." I was afraid there would be few at the church to pay their last respects to her. I was mistaken, the meetinghouse was packed with people. A prominent member of the Church spoke at the services. In his remarks he said, "Io my knowledge this sister never did a spectacular thing in her life.
There will be no monuments raised to her memory. She wrote no great poems, nor did she ever make great music.
Judged by the world's standards, she was unimportant. But she has a record of seven years of one hun- 2 727 dred per cent Relief Society visiting teaching. She carried about in her soul the divine art of making peace, of planting hope in forlorn hearts, and planting faith in bleak and barren lives, of banishing gloom and dispelling fear, and of encouraging people to new endeavor. She has done temple work, visited the sick, and administered in homes where death was. She has a record bright with deeds of mercy, and when she is judged by the Supreme Judge, she will be one of God's noblewomen." How well my friend obeyed the counsel of the Prophet to magnify her calling and to expand her soul toward others! The spirit of unselfish giving of one's means and of oneself is a fundamental part of the gospel of Jesus Christ. As Relief Society members, we have a most wonderful channel through which to serve each other and the stranger at our doors.
Opportunity is ever open to us to learn of the needs and the discouragements—the hopes and the fears of those about us. And, though rushed by our own daily tasks, may we yet find time or take time to ease the burden of others and to share their joys.

May we find ourselves worthy of the love and confidence of those we serve. May we be humble in our stewardship, patient in our understanding, and wise in our counseling.

And when our work is done and we have fought the good fight, may we hear the words, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant," and may our hearts be at rest in the knowledge that we have served our Master well.