[Vol8 | July 1921 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman Utah Stake A delightful social was given on April 21 by the Utah stake Relief Society board to their co-worker, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, recently called from her stake work to act as first counselor to Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams in the General Presidency of the Relief Society. Mrs. Knight was presented with a beautiful token of esteem by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, in behalf of the Board. The evening program began with the singing of, "Oh, ye mountains high," led by Mrs, Arthur Salt. Other musical numbers were rendered during the evening by the Christensen sisters, Misses Virginia and Elaine. An address of welcome was given by Mrs. Inez K. Allen in behalf of the hostess, Mrs. Jesse Knight. An interesting feature of the evening's entertainment was an extemporaneous speaking contest, in which humor and kindly sentiment were freely intermingled. The special subjects and those speaking were as follows: Jennie Knight as a Daughter, President George H. Brimhall; My Missionary Companion, Mrs. Inez K. Allen; The Wooing of a Knight, J. William Knight; My Y. L. M. I. A. President, Mrs. Emma S. Jensen; Jennie as a Daughter-in-law, Mrs. Jesse Knight; The Tricks she Played on a Younger Sister, Mrs. Zina B. Holbrook; How She Came to Pick Her Sweet William, Miss Alice Reynolds; As a Relief Society Member, Mrs. Inez Hodson; Mrs. Knight as a Sister-in-law, Knight Starr Jordan; The Promotion, President T. N. Taylor; Why They Took Our Knight Defense Away, Counselor Louise Y. Robison of the General Board of Relief Society. The judges of the contest, S. P. Eggertsen, J. M. Jensen, and Joseph B. Keeler, awarded the prize for the best effort to J. William Knight. Mrs. Knight responded ? happily to the sentiments of appreciation offered, and told of the pleasure she had taken in her past labors. A delicious luncheon was served. Eastern States Mission At the farewell party held on April 30, in Hawthorne Hall, for many years the meeting place of the New York Latter-day Saints, the New York Relief Society was in charge. The president, Mrs. Stella Paul Bradford presided, and the following program was given: Congregational singing, led by Emma Lucy 
 Gates; Piano Duet, Wayne and Parry Driggs; Piano Solo, Mrs. Mabel Borg Jenkins; Reminiscences of the old hall, by Miss Helen Davis, Emma Lucy Gates, Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, and Mr. Stewart Cohn; Piano Solo, William Peterson, Vocal Solo, W. C. Bradford, Dramatic Reading, Professor Osmond; The Years to Come, sketch, Miss Irene Tolton and Miss Emily Brinton; Vocal Solo, Emma Lucy Gates. At the close of the program a social time followed and refreshments were served. It was a splendid farewell to the old hall which -has so many pleasant. Memories and which is soon to be torn down, to make way for another building. ' Moapa Stake The Overton Relief Society choir recently furnished the singing for the Sacrament service. This energetic little branch owns a city lot with a neat little cottage on it, which has been paid for with funds raised from bazaars and food sales. Northwestern States Mission The Anaconda Relief Society, with Mrs. Camilla M. Spillman, president, recently held a bazaar and dancing party from which they realized $100 for their general fund. European Misston In a letter from Elder Harold Jenson we learn that the Relief Society work in the Birmingham Conference is flourishing and has been the means in several of the branches of keeping the branches themselves together. During the war the Kidderminster Branch was entirely kept alive by the Relief Society women who presided, did the singing and speaking, and visited the Church members. At the present time there are five Relief Society organizations in this conference. The societies are following the regular lesson plans as outlined by the General Board in the Relief Society Magazine. Elder Jenson adds: "The sisters asked me to write this to let you know how greatly they enjoy. Relief Society work, and to express their appreciation for the Relief Society Magazine which not only acts as a guide, but contains a great deal of valuable information. Mrs. Susa Young; Gates and the others associated with her in editing this publication would have just cause to know their labors were not in vain if they could but see the way "this literary gem" enables the Saints have to progress both spiritually and temporally. The work of Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, and the wenderful way in which the money was raised to aid the starving children of Europe, has also been commented on, and has created great interest." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 411 San Luis Stake Mrs. Johanna M. Harrison, who has served faithfully and' devotedly for a number of years as president of the San Luis stake Relief Society tendered her resignation on the first of April. A testimonial was given by the stake and ward officers in honor of Mrs. Harrison and the retiring board. An interesting program was given and delicious refreshments were served. Each of the retiring officers was presented with a token of appreciation for their untiring service. Mrs. Martha E. Haskell has been chosen president, Mrs. Fannie J. Weirner, first counselor, and Mrs. Laurette Peterson, second counselor. Mrs. Emily J. Dunn is the stake secretary. Garfield Stake The stake president and her counselors have recently made a visit to all of the wards of the stake, except one. To stake officers who are accustomed to making their visit by trolley car, train, or automobile, a visit through the stake would not seem to have been an accomplishment worthy of special mention; but in this case five days were required to make the trip. The officers had to travel over a high range of mountains, and owing to the condition of the roads at this time of year, a part of the journey had to be made in a wagon, through a blinding snow storm and for one whole day, through a very cold blizzard. But they found a splendid spirit of enthusiasm and cooperation in all the wards. They were welcomed so heartily that they felt amply repaid for the hardships they had endured. The one ward yet to be visited is the Boulder ward, which lies to the east, in the midst of one of the most picturesque regions of Utah. The journey there and back will require three days at least, and will have to be made by teams as the road can be called a road only by courtesy. Yet the officers are eagerly looking forward to the trip and they are confident that they shall find there the same welcome and the same spirit of service that they found in the other wards. The eight Relief Society organizations in the Garfield stake are engaged in a contest for two prizes offered by the stake board, one for the greatest increase in membership, the other for the largest attendance of Relief Society women at sacrament meeting. Tintic Stake On Relief Society Anniversary Day, all the wards gave an entertainment, consisting of a pageant depicting the history of the Relief Society from the beginning up to the present time, featuring special music and singing. 
 Carbon Stake?In Memoriam A great loss has been sustained in the Carbon stake in the passing of the former Relief Society stake president, Mrs. Pauline Pace, which occured early in*the year. Mrs. Pace was born December 2, 1857, and was a real pioneer in several of our communities. She was married to John H. Pace, December 25, 1876, with whom she moved to St. George, just after the completion of the St. George temple. Three years later they were called to assist in the settlement of San Juan county. They passed through many hardships and had a great deal of contention with the Indians, finally settling in Bluff, in 1880. After four years of arduous work in building roads and rude houses and in clearing and breaking up the land, all of which work was greatly hampered by the Indians, they were released and joined the pioneers in Price, Utah, arriving there November 4, 1884. Here, Mrs. Pace again devoted herself to community building, and lending a helping hand in caring for those less fortunte than herself. She served for three years as counselor to President Sarah G. Cox in the Price Relief Society and for two years as president. When the stake was divided, in 1910; she was chosen stake president of the Carbon stake Relief Society, which position she filled faithfully until her failing health, in November, 1920, caused her to obtain a release. The death of Mrs. Pace is' sincerely mourned by her co-workers, who feel the loss of a friend whose fellowship it was an honor and pleasure to have enjoyed. Fremont Stake?In Memoriam Sugar City has been called to mourn the death of one ae its most beloved citizens, and pioneers, Mrs. Elizabeth A. Roberts. Mrs. Roberts was the mother of six children and besides rearing her own family, he has brought up the family of her husband's first wife who died 26 years ago; also four grandchildren who were left motherless. In addition to her home duties she has been a faithful worker in the Church all her life. When the Sugar ward was first organized, in 1904, she was chosen as President of the Relief Society, which office she held until the time of her death. She spent a great deal of time in caring for the sick and needy, and all in all her life was one continual round of service to others. South Davis Stake Under the direction of Mrs. Eugenia Rampton, of Bountiful First ward, twenty bushels of vegetables were collected and brought to Relief Society headquarters, Salt Lake City, to be distributed among families handicapped by unemployment.