LESSON III Literature R (Third Week in April) WASHINGTON IRVING ' Benjamin Franklin was of the Colonial and of the Revolutionary period. Washington Irving made his advent with the ushering in of the new order, and for that. Reason he may be regarded as the first author of the Republic. He was born April 3, 1783, in New York City. George Washington was, at the time of Irving's birth, the national hero, and for that reason Irving was given his name. In later years when guests called on Irving at his beautiful home in Tarrytown, on the banks of the Hudson, he was fond of telling them how his nurse once intercepted Washington on horseback, "to show him a bairn that was called after him," and how the Father of his Country laid his hands upon his head and gave him a formal blessing. Irving was not robust in health, as a young man, and for that reason he was denied the privilege that came to his two older brothers of attending Columbia University. In 1804 he went abroad returning in 1806. The Napoleonic wars were in progress; and he witnessed Nelson's fleet a short time before it made itself famous in the battle of Trafalgar. He was inconvenienced rather frequently, while in Europe, because of war conditions and was at one time arrested as a British spy. This would have greatly disturbed some persons, but it did not affect Irving greatly, for he found the countries where he was visiting full of romance, and the delays furnished an 22M for the romance to take hold of him. On his return in 1806 he began the practice of law. Like Sir 
 Walter Scott he was very much more interested in legend and history than he was in law. He used to tell, in a mischievous way, how the firm with which he was connected had Aaron Burr's case and that Aaron Burr was acquitted.  He was a partner in the law firm of Josiah Ogden Hoffman, whose daughter Mitilda became his sweetheart. This was the one touch of personal romance in Irving's whole career. He was not of age and she was only seventeen when the engagement occurred; a few months later she died. When Irving passed away, at the age of seventy-six, a locket containing her miniature and a piece of her hair was taken from his neck. He had lived unmarried, devoted to her memory. His first literary undertaking was in connection with his brother William, and a friend, James Kirk Paulding, with whom he cooperated in producing Salmagundt. It remained for his History of New York to create a literary sensation. The novel way in which he introduced the work to the public assured its popularity from the beginning. He announced in the papers that the manuscript had been found by the landlord of the Columbian Hotel among the effects of a departed lodger, and that it had been sold to a printer to offset the lodger's indebtedness. Before the manuscript was disposed of, Seth Handaside, the landlord, inserted in New York and Philadelphia papers an advertise- - ment describing Mr. Knickerbocker and asking for information about him. When the people did learn that the story like the history was fictitious, they were greatly surprised. Irving, perhaps, could never quite explain to his friends of the old Dutch families why he felt at liberty to handle them just as he did. In a most amusing history he gives us pen portraits of the old Dutch burghers that are and doubtless will be valued for generations to come. - Irving was taken into partnership with his two brothers, in 1810, who were merchants and importers. In 1814 when war troubles were over in America, he was sent as a representative of the merchants' firm to Liverpool. Had success attended this business venture Irving's pen might have been silenced; fortunately for the world he was compelled to turn to writing as a means of support. In 1819 the Sketch Book was published in New York, and in 1820 in London. This is the best known of Irving's writings both in America and Europe. It has been translated into French, German, and Italian, and is used by these people in their schools and colleges as a model of English composition. Ichabod Crane and Rip Van Winkle were read with much interest both at home and abroad. Alexander Everett was United States minister to Spain in 1826, and through him Irving was made attache to the Legation at Madrid. This gave Irving the opportunity, which he readily grasped, to collect Spanish material. He turned his attention first, to a life of Columbus, which biography was completed in 1827. Then he turned to the Alhambra, and in order to secure what he felt to be the proper atmosphere for his work he lived in the palace of the Alhambra for a season. He visited Seville, and as a result of his close contact with Spanish life and Spanish material, published The Conquest of Granada, in 1829, and the Legend of the Alhambra in 1832. His reputation was now established both in Binetica and Europe. In 1829 he was made a member of the Royal Academy or History in Madrid. The Royal Society of London voted him one of its medals in 1830, the only other medal of that year was awarded Hallam for his history of the Middle Ages. At this point we would emphasize the fact that Irving was recognized as a historian both in Spain and England. A short time after receiving the medal from the Royal Saciety of London, Irving was honored with the degree of Doctor of Laws from Oxford University. It was possibly disconcerting to one of his shy nature to have the Oxford students in the gallery call out as he entered the room where the ceremony was to take place, "Here comes old Knickerbocker!' "How about Ichabod Crane?" "Has Rip Van Winkle waked up yet?" and 'Who discevered Columbus?" but it was nevertheless a great compliment, for it was unmistakable evidence that they had read his writings. In 1832 Irving returned home after having been absent from the United States for seventeen years. He was a bit disheartened, for a time, for his American publisher told him that it was no use getting out new editions of his work, as the public taste had changed and there was no longer a demand for his writings. The judgment of his publishers did not prove correct, for later Putnam found him a source of a very substantial income for many years. Irving had some holdings in the West that proved profitable, toward the end of his life. Soon after his return from England, he took a trip into the West in order to see these holdings. Out of this brief excursion into what was then frontier country, we have his Tour of the Prairies, written in 1835. Many people interested in pioneer effort still find this material entertaining reading. Irving received an appointment from President Tyler in 1842 making him minister to Spain. He seemied to feel it incumbent upon him to write a sketch or a book whenever a new experience came into his life. As a result of this feeling we have his History and Legend of Spain during the Moorish occupation. 
 Irving's final contribution, and in some respects his greatest work, was completed on his seventy-sixth birthday. It is The Life of George Washington. He felt that his strength was failing and expressed great fear lest he should not be able to finish the work, but he did and was permitted to hold the printed volume in his hand before he died. Irving did distinctive service by living in Great Britain and making use of British themes. It had become the fashion in America to ridicule everything British and in England to ridicule everything American in the period immediately following the Revolutionary war. Irving's sympathetic attitude toward the English people and his sympathetic use of British material did much to lessen the rancor and bitterness that had grown up between the two countries as the result of the war. Classic legends tell us that everything King Midas touched turned into gold; everything Irving touched turned into romance and beauty. Beautiful and interesting as are the banks of the "lovely Hudson" Irving has made them more beautiful; enchanting as are Italian Tales, he has added to their enchantment; brilliant as was Spanish life, he has made it more brilliant; attractive and mysterious as are the legends clinging to the castles and halls of aristocratic England, he augmented their attractiveness and riystery. One of the most significant contributions America has made io the literature of the world is that of the short story. Irving is the great pioneer in this line. The next lesson will be devoted to the American short story, featuring in particular the short stories of Washington Irving. References: Irving's complete work, or any collections contain'ng selections from Irving that may 'be accessible. In centers where there are libraries, it should not be difficult to obtain Irving's works. Read as much as you can, the more you are able to read the better it is for you personally. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Present to the class one of Irving's famous pen portraits taken for the History of New York, the Life of Columbus, or the Life of Washington. 2. Give the names of as many of Irving's writings as you can call to mind. 3. Why should it be an easy matter for Latter-day Saints to remember the year when Irving received the medal of the Royal Society of London? 4. Go to an encyclopedia or the Century Dictionary of Names and find something of biographical interest concerning Hallam, the historian, and report to the class. 5. Have someone tell where and when the battle of Trafalgar took place, and some: hing about the contesting nations, 6. Select one of Irving's descriptive passages to read to the class; we suggests something from the Alhambra by Moonlight or Lake Bonneville. 7. Are we passing through a period of prejudice towards the people of other nations that parallels in some particulars the attitude of America and Great Britain after the-Revolutionary war? Discuss such an attitude; is it helpful or hurtful to national life and individual character? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth week in April)