[Child by a Stormy Sea by Lael W. Hill]

Child by a Stormy Sea Lael W. Hill Five years old, full of joy and wonder, He runs along the gray sand looking to the thunder Of the wide wind over and the white waves under. Sky-eyed boy, he runs along the beaches— Leaps to meet the wild gulls, the splashed wave-reaches— Laughing to the songs that the swift wind teaches.
Never a doubt the way that he is going— Quick along the curved edge, nor ever pause nor slowing— Part of earth and sea he is, and dusk-wind blowing. Oh, wise of heart, who slipped a dull, safe tether " For rippled sand, for curled sea, now let us race together— Sharing for an hour this windy-silver weather. Jn Nlenvsriam taledder Don B. Colton September 15, 1876—August 1, 1952 LDER Don B. Colton, director of the mission home in Salt Lake City, for fourteen years, died August 1, 1952, at the age of seventy-five.
Prominent in civic affairs and a devoted worker in the Church, he had served as United States Congressman, as president of Uintah Stake, president of the Eastern States Mission, and as an inspirational and beloved leader in many other positions of trust and responsibility. Two of his Easter messages published in The Relief Society Magazine: "Jesus Christ Our Lord" (April 1948) and "Jesus—Lord of the Resurrection" (April 1949) expressed Brother Colton's deep and abiding faith in eternal life and the joyful reunion with loved ones in the Father's kingdom. As author of the theology lessons for Relief Society ("The Life and Ministry of the Savior," 1947-1951), he particularly endeared himself to the women of the Church. The family of Brother Colton, in a note of appreciation for the sympathy extended to them by thegeneral board of Relief Society, expressed Brother Colton's love for his work in preparing the theology lessons: "Brother Colton loved his work with you in the cause of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. He enjoyed so much writing the theology lessons and appreciated the opportunity to enlarge his knowledge of his Lord." Relief Society members in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to Sister Colton and the family. May all the loved ones of Brother Colton be comforted at this time and may they be uplifted in spirit, recalling and always remembering the tender, compassionate spirit and the great love which Brother Colton manifested.
Throughout his life. She Aster Gene Romolo When autumn plucks the petals of the rose, Leaving only briers on each stem,