[Vol39 | October 1952 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Board | Title: Relief Society Bulletin Cover and Masthead]
Vol. 39 OCTOBER 1952 No. 10
Autumn Drive Christie Lund Coles The road before us glistened in the sun, Smooth and bright as polished leather, While it seemed the wild geese heralding our way Said we were glad to be together, We saw the withered cornstalks on the ground, We saw the rounded stacks of smooth, sheared hay; The tumbleweeds blown far against a hill Were purple as the tamarisk in May; We saw the sun spill through the empty trees, Where summer's nests pathetically were seen; We saw the first bright shoots of winter wheat That in this dying time were living green, We saw a fallow dry farm, delicate, Soft-colored as a piece of brocatelle, A setting for the farmhouse with its barn, Its lean-to, rusty pump, and cool, rock well; We saw the broken milkweed pods, their treasure Flying about like wisps of silk frieze. We smiled upon it all, and on each other, Caught in the blue-gold circle of the day The Cover: Golden Gate Bridge, San Francisco, California Photograph by Jeff Thomson Frontispiece: Autumn Valley, Near San Juan, California Photograph by Ward Linton Soom Wiese alt I read the Magazine from cover to cover and wouldn't miss a single issue.
Every article has something for me and is a big help in rearing my small family. —Mrs. Arlene P. Helmsley Salzburg, Austria I am writing a few lines to tell you how much The Relief Society Magazine ls appreciated in our home. [ have a daughter about twelve years old who has been reading the stories from the Magazine for about four years. She has access to a variety of other reading material, but in most instances she prefers a good story from the Magazine. I am very thankful that she is learning to love good reading and that we have a Magazine containing the type of literature that will be uplifting to girls of any age. I am enclosing a little motto that I wrote several years ago: Relief Society is the place for me, An intelligent wife and mother ['ll be; Talents long hidden in a little dark room Will soon be awakened and burst into bloom. —Mts. Julia Shepherd Ovid, Idaho _ "= I was born and reared in Utah, but am making my home in Sweden now. We don't have the advantages of Relief Society as I remember it from my younger years, but each week we have a Book Of Mormon class. At present I have twin nephews here on a mission—the Eckman twins from Salt Lake City. My sister, Mrs, J.. Wallin, Tooele, Utah, sent me a gift subscription to the Magazine. She is visiting here with me and together we enjoy the Magazine. It is my closest contact with the Church. —Mtrs. Tece Dahlen Alvsby, Sweden I take The Relief Society Magazine and enjoy it very much. My husband and I are converts to this wonderful Church. We hope to come to Utah some day. We are natives of California. —Leona Mendonca Napa, California Page 642 We would like to take this Opportunity to tell you how much we enjoy the Magazine. Its excellent literature is always of a beautiful nature and on a high plane, and the Magazine as a whole inspires us with Stronger testimonies and greater desires to serve God and to be good representatives of his Church and our women. —Charlene Madsen Mission Stenographer Canadian Mission, Toronto, Ontario The Relief Society Magazine has been in our home for many years, and we have enjoyed the many editorials, articles, stories, poems, and lessons. My daughter has read the Magazine from the time she first learned to read.
When she finished high school she wasn't sure just what course she should take at the University, when she read an article by our dear Apostle Widtsoe, advising girls to go into home economics.
Right then and there her mind was made up to take a home economics course, which she did, and has now been teaching for six years. —Nellie Bentson Minneapolis, Minnesota When I receive The Relief Society Magazine it is like a cool drink of water from the spring in the oasis in the desert, after traveling all day. I am with my husband laboring -in the Swiss-Austrian Mission. The Relief Society president from my ward in Long Beach, California, sent the Magazine to me and I want you to know how much I appreciate it as | have been president of the Frauenhilfsvereine (Relief Society Association) here in St. Gallen, Switzerland, for over a year. I find the same sisterly love existing here in the mission as jn America, and I do appreciate this opportunity. —Lily N. Hortnagel St. Gallen, Switzerland When my Magazine comes, I read all the poetry first, for I love to express my thoughts in that way. Viola D. Miller Afton, Wyomigg
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafiord - - -: President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. - - - - - Second Counselor Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams Christine H. Robinson Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Josie B. Bay Mildred B. Eyring Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Alta J. Vance Helen W. Anderson
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - -. Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 39 OCTOBER 1952 No. 10