[Vol41 | July 1954 | Sequence: 07 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Meeting]
Notes TO THE FIELD Program for the Tlovember Fast Sunday &vening Meeting HE special program for Sunday, November 7, 1954, will be mailed to Relicf Society stake presidents early in August. We urge stake presidents to distribute these programs to the wards immediately upon receipt of them. The music for this occasion was listed in the June 1954 Magazine, in Notes to the Field, page 384. Mlagazine Rates for Mexico, Central America, and South America Uncreased Beginning with the publication of this notice, the subscription price for The Relief Society Magazine for mailing to subscribers in Mexico, Central America, and South America will be $2. 'This increase has become necessary because of an increase in postage rates to these countries. Hymn of the Mlonth HE Church-wide congregational hymn singing project inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, will be continued during the coming year, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. 'The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of the Church members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Stake choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at union meetings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this project. An analvsis and story of the hymn will be printed each month in the Church Section of the Deseret News. Following is a list of hymns approved for the twelve months July 1954 to June 1955: Page 446 NOTES TO THE FIELD July, 1954 August September October November December January, 1955 February March April May June Hymns, 1953 edition How Gentle God's Commands Doddridge-Naegeli We Give Thee But Thine Own How-Cantica Laudis Upon the Cross of Calvary Raile-Robertson Rejoice, the Lord Is King Wesley-Parker Our God, We Raise to Thee Snow-Stephens The First Noel Traditional While of These Emblems Nicholson-Schreiner Come, Rejoice Cannon-Cannon He Is Risen Alexander-Neander Father in Heaven Hibbard-Flemming To Nephi, Seer of Olden Times = 'Townsend-Clayson I Have Work Enough to Do Pollard-Kirkpatrick Sioue Ch, iofta — Prayer Mabel Law Atkinson Great Spirit, help me Judge no man till I have walked In his moccasins. Gnivtion Wanton Leslie Savage Clark The roots a woman's heart puts down Are strong and very deep. When she must leave the home she loves, For years across her sleep Will drift the dreams of climbing rose That arched a door she knew, And lighted windows through the dusk, And lilacs wet with dew. So women took green slender shoots For planting, when they went To wild frontiers—that they might keep The lilac's rain-washed scent. 448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 Needlecraft—A Useful Hobby Nora Warenski Ross, seventy-six, of Calgary, Alberta, Canada, makes many quilts, aprons, pillowslips, and crocheted articles for her family, her friends, and for Relief Society. Sister Nora Ross, mother of six daughters, a woman of pioneer heritage who went to Canada in her early married life, has found lasting joy in her many hobbies, and in her Relief Society work. Recently she made forty-seven aprons, pieced four quilts, made four pairs of pillowslips, and crocheted twenty-five hot pot holders and doilies. She also quilted every Tuesday from May 1953 until the Calgary First Ward bazaar was held on November 5, 1953. For the occasion of her seventy-fourth birthday, Sister Ross was honored by having a poem written for her by her daughter, Eileen Ross Lott, part of which is quoted below: BRAVE SPIRIT You were never one to ask for favors, To sit and say that such was your just due, But you were one to work, and fight, if need be, Brave Spirit, all of us are proud of you.... Married when in your youth You might have chosen ease, the quiet life, Instead, you chose, together with your husband, To come up to this country wild and rife.... Your children all have left your hearthstone— Another generation and another voice; Would you have changed your life for ease and splendor? Not you, Brave Spirit, this was your own choice. ~The Way" Ruth Moody Ostegar HE two little doors of the [aoc popped open, and the one "coo-coo"' of the little bird reverberated throughout' the still, dark house. Martha Whitmore raised herself on one elbow so as to see more easily the hands of the luminous dial on her bedside stand. One is such a disturbing number, she thought to herself. It might mean anything — twelvethirty, one, one-thirty—it could hardly be two-thirty. The hands pointed to one-thirty, and she sighed as she lay back down again. Now where on earth can that gitl be? She thought. It seems like children just try to see how late they can stay out, with never a thought of their parents. Of course, she might possibly have slipped in without my hearing her. I'll just take a look in her room and see if she's there. Suiting the action to the word, Martha quietly arose, and softly, so as not to awaken John, her husband, crept down the hall. The sight of the open door and the moonlight streaming across the empty bed confirmed her fears; Beth was somewhere out in the night. "What's the matter, Mom, can't you sleep?" John's voice came to her from the other twin bed as she climbed into her own.: "It's Beth," she said, "she hasn't come home yet, and here it is almost two o'clock. Do you think something's happened to her?" "Of course not, Martha. Aren't you ever going to get over worrying? Beth's been away for four years now taking care of herself, she ought to be able to meet any situation." "But I can't help worrying; the party must have been out two hours ago. One reads in the paper about young folks doing such dreadful things, these days. Maybe they've had an accident!" "No, I don't think there's been an accident. That's one thing we would hear about. Now you go back to sleep and quit worrying. It's such a beautiful moonlight night; they've probably just gone for a drive." "But we scarcely know this boy she is with. What does she have to go chasing out for anyway?" "Well, you couldn't expect her to sit around and _ twiddle her thumbs until David gets out of the service. Beth has always been a good, dependable girl. She's been taught properly, and I'm sure there's no cause for worry." "I guess you're right,' Martha admitted, "but I know I won't sleep a wink until she comes." "Nonsense!" John ejaculated reassuringly, as he turned over. His gentle, steady breathing soon told her that he was asleep. ES, Beth has always been a good gitl, she told herself, and began thinking of her as a child winning one hundred per cent attendance awards in Sunday School, saving her pennies in an envelope to pay her tithing, being organist for Primary almost before she had gradPage 449 450 uated, and on through the years. She thought of Beth's charm and beauty as she approached womanhood, the gay twinkle of her large, brown eyes, the clear, sweet tone of her lovely voice as she sang. Everyone loved to hear her sing, and they had been so happy when they were able to let her attend the B. Y. U. And take vocal lessons. Yes, Beth, their youngest, had always been a joy, very little worry on her account. How pleased they had been when she had told them of her engagement to David, who had recently returned from a mission, and how sensible they had thought her when she made known their plans to wait until he was out of the service before marrying. And then their joy had been complete when, after graduation, she had said she would like to go on a mission while David finished his term in the army. Now her pathway ahead seemed to lead clear and straight to happiness, and yet there was always the possibility that something might happen to change her plans, mar the way, and lead her down the road of doubt and sorrow. Martha thought of her own younger sister Grace, who had likewise been beautiful and talented, and how she had become confused in her sense of values and had given up the gospel for the glitter, the tinsel, the shiny things of life. Now, at middle age, Grace was a not-too-happy widow, living alone in her New York home. God grant, Martha prayed quietly, that nothing like that will ever happen to our Beth. She closed her eyes and began counting slowly in rhythm with her breathing, "One, two, three, four. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 ' Sometimes that helped her to sleep. A car turned into the street, and she lay tense and still, waiting to hear if it would stop, but it went speedily onward. "Nine, ten, eleven, twelve."" She heard the clock proclaiming that it was two in the morning. "I wish she wouldn't do things like this!" Another car pulled into the street, and this time, with a sigh of relief, she heard it stop. A moment later the side door quietly opened—now, perhaps, she could sleep. %% *K * * OOD morning, Mother, have you something good for breakfast? I'm famished!" Beth, with her hair in pin curls and her dressing gown pulled over her pajamas, greeted her mother, who was busy with the breakfast dishes.. "There's a glass of orange juice in the refrigerator, and [ll fry you some bacon and eggs. Do you want to put some bread in the toaster? There's some of that good strawberry jam still on the table. And, in the meantime, what on earth kept you out so late last night? It was after two when you came in, and I don't think it's right for a girl who has been interviewed for a mission to be staying out all hours of the night!" "For heaven's sake, Mom, do you still lie awake worrying over me? I'm a big girl now, remember?" and Beth's smile was one which would have melted the most frigid heart. "Yes, I know you are, Beth, and I do have confidence in you, but there's one thing I've seen many times over the years, of which you may not be aware." "THE WAY" "What's that?" "It seems like the powers of darkness ever try to thwart the work of God. I have seen many young people on the verge of a mission suffer temptations that they never knew existed. Some have faltered 'and fallen by the wayside. Even Wilford Woodruff, that stalwart Church leader, said upon one occasion that it seemed that every time he was called to perform a mission the destroyer was determined to hinder him with sickness, trouble, or tribulation, and to discourage him." "That might well be, Mother," Beth answered seriously. "And [ll try to remember it. "To be forewarned is to be forearmed,' they say. But last night there was nothing to worry about. Jean's cousin, who had come over for the party, wanted a ride home, so we drove her over to Benson. It's about forty miles, and she insisted that we stop a few minutes, as her mother was sure to have something good in the refrigerator. She did too! Cold chicken, soda pop! Yum! Yum!" "You girls!" Martha was definitely relieved. "How you can eat so much and keep your figure beats me! Hurry up now, and eat your breakfast. I want you to help me wash the walls and ceiling of the kitchen today, so we can paint. I want to get the house all shipshape before you leave." "Do you have to start on the kitchen? Couldn't we begin on something easier and sort of work up to a climax?" "Well, you know it's like ironing, when you put the white shirts and starched things on top of the basket, the rest is easy." 451 MARTHA and her daughter were both hard at work when they heard the postman. Beth ran to see if there was a letter from David. "Here's a letter from New York, Mother. It must be from Aunt Grace." I "That's strange," replied Martha, "I was just thinking of her this morning, Open it and read it for me, my hands are dirty." Beth tore a strip from the end of the envelope. "Mom, she's coming to visit us! Listen!" She read the short letter aloud, which ended: "... And so, if you can make room for me somewhere for a few days, I I'll be arriving about Saturday, July eighteenth. I believe PIl enjoy relaxing a little in your fair city." "My word! She doesn't give us much time, does she? The eighteenth is this Saturday, and it's Wednesday now." Martha's mind raced ahead to necessary preparations. "We'll paint the kitchen tomorrow, and Friday we'll just have to paper that back bedroom, you know Mary's children scribbled on the wall the last time they were here. I wonder if we could afford a new bedspread—something pretty to match the new paper. After all, we want to make our home as attractive as possible." "Let's hurry," Beth suggested, "and shop this afternoon, then we could paint tonight, when dad's here to help us." Quite abruptly, she changed the subject. "I do wonder what she'll be like. Do you think she will be condescending and high and mighty, or do you think she'll be so worn out and complaining that she'll never even notice us?" "She can be very charming and sweet when she wants to be," her 452 mother answered. "As a matter of fact, in spite of her money, I feel rather sorry for her. After all, we've got the joy, peace, and security that a faith in the Lord and the gospe