[Vol41 | July 1954 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: Magazine | Author: America]
["Magazine" Rates for Mexico Central America, and South America]
436 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1954 
February  lo,  1899,  they  went  im- 
mediately to  China,  where  people 
were  surprised  to  see  a  young  bride 
accompanying  her  husband  on  his 
exploring  trips  into  the  far  interior 
of  the  country.  But  Lou  Hoover, 
the  first  woman  to  receive  a  degree 
in  geology  from  Stanford  University, 
was  well  fitted  to  help  her  husband 
with  all  phases  of  his  work. 
Herbert  Hoover's  assignments 
took  him  to  Ceylon,  Siberia,  Au- 
stralia, Egypt,  Japan,  and  Europe, 
and  his  wife  accompanied  him  on 
many  of  these  journeys.  No  matter 
where  they  were,  or  however  long  or 
short  their  stay,  Lou  made  a  real 
home  for  her  husband.  They  would 
rent  a  house  and  set  up  housekeep- 
ing, sometimes  with  the  most  meag- 
er facilities. 
Later,  they  returned  to  Palo  Alto, 
California,  and  built  the  beautiful 
home  on  the  Stanford  campus 
which  became  a  showplace  because 
of  its  unique  architectural  features 
and  its  ornate  furnishings  which  had 
been  brought  from  many  countries. 
The  design  of  the  home  provided 
opportunities  for  outdoor  living, 
which  both  the  Hoovers  enjoyed. 
Here  they  had  only  a  year  of  con- 
tentment before  Herbert  Hoover 
was  called  to  the  service  of  his  Gov- 
ernment, and  they  went  to  Wash- 
ington. He  was  Secretary  of  Com- 
merce for  eight  years,  then  became 
President  in  1929. 
Mrs.  Hoover  was  prominent  in 
Washington  society  and  in  social 
service  work.  She  was  an  active 
worker  in  the  Girl  Scout  movement, 
and  gave  support  to  worthwhile 
projects  sponsored  by  women's  or- 
ganizations. To  her  friends  she  said 
that  her  work  was  to  provide  a  back- 
ground for  her  husband.  But  she  did 
vastly  more  than  that.  She  took  over 
many  of  the  details  of  his  responsi- 
bilities and  freed  him  from  tiring 
tasks.  For  example,  she  often  took 
his  place  in  giving  commencement 
addresses  and  she  appeared  at  vari- 
ous ceremonies  where  a  speaker,  rep- 
resenting the  White  House,  was 
needed.  She  was  pleasing  and  ef- 
fective in  these  capacities  because 
she  symbolized  her  husband's  high 
position,  and  her  gracious  person- 
ality appealed  to  the  people. 
Lou  Henry  Hoover  died  in  1944. 
Her  husband  is  still  prominent  in 
world  affairs  and  is  greatly  respected 
as  an  "elder  statesman"  who  renders 
wise  and  willing  service. 
Eleanor  Roosevelt  Roosevelt  has 
been  called  the  First  Lady  of  the 
World  as  well  as  First  Lady  of  our 
land.  She  was  born  in  New  York 
City,  a  daughter  of  Elliott  Roose- 
velt, a  younger  brother  of  President 
Theodore  Roosevelt,  and  Anna  Hall 
Roosevelt.  She  was  only  eight  years 
old  when  her  mother  died,  and  two 
years  later  her  father  died.  She  was 
reared  by  relatives  and  was  sent  to 
school  in  England.  Upon  her  re- 
turn to  America,  among  her  close 
friends  was  a  distant  cousin,  Frank- 
lin Delano  Roosevelt.  They  were 
married  in  1905  while  Franklin  was 
a  law  student  at  Columbia  Uni- 
versity. 
She  and  Franklin  were  both  born 
and  reared  in  an  atmosphere  of 
wealth  and  social  prominence,  hav- 
ing the  advantages  of  education,  trav- 
el, and  close  contacts  with  many 
eminent  people.  When  the  tragedy 
of  a  disabling  attack  of  poliomyelitis 
struck  her  husband,  Eleanor  Roose- 
velt  found   great   resources  within
