[Vol41 | July 1954 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting | Author: Jacobs]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Now My Brethren, We See That God Is Mindful of Every People" Leone O. Jacobs]
Visiting  cJeacher  iiiessages 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  25:  "Now  My  Brethren,  We  See  That  God    Is  Mindful   of   Every 
People,   Whatsoever    Land    They   May    Be    in;   Yea,    He    Numbereth 
His   People,   and    His   Bowels   of  Mercy   Are   Over 
All   the    Earth    .    .    .    "    (Alma    26:37). 
Leone  O.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  October  5,  1954 
Objective:  To  assure  us  that  God  watches  over  all  his  children. 
OOW  reassuring  it  is  to  know  that 
God  is  mindful  of  us  all!  To 
know  that  wherever  we  abide,  be  it 
in  one  corner  of  the  globe  or  an- 
other, on  the  isles  of  the  sea,  in  war- 
torn  countries  or  under  oppression, 
God  can  account  for  us  all  and  is 
concerned  for  our  welfare. 
It  is  not  at  all  strange  that  he  is 
mindful  of  us.  Are  we  not  his  very 
own  children,  created  in  his  image, 
and  with  a  spark  of  divinity  within 
each  one  of  us?  Surely  it  is  most 
natural  for  him  to  know  our  where- 
abouts. He  is  constantly  willing  to 
sustain  and  direct  us. 
Not  only  can  we  be  assured  that 
God  is  mindful  of  his  children,  but 
we  can  also  be  assured  of  his  hear- 
ing us,  if  we  keep  the  channel  of 
prayer  open.  And  how  is  this  chan- 
nel kept  clear?  Only  by  the  right- 
eous living  of  those  who  wish  to 
''tune  in." 
Knowing  that  we  are  numbered 
unto  him  and  that  his  mercy  is  ex- 
tended over  all  the  earth,  makes  it 
easier  for  us  to  accept  the  responsi- 
bilities and  burdens  we  are  called 
upon  to  shoulder.  We  know  there 
is  always  one  on  whom  we  can  re- 
ly, to  whom  we  can  go  for  guidance. 
We  are  not  alone  in  the  world.  No 
matter  how  dark  the  clouds  of  dis- 
couragement and  woe,  we  are  not 
Page  482 
lost  to  God— we  are  not  forgotten. 
It  is  possible  to  have  his  spirit  as  a 
constant  companion.  Together,  we 
can  weather  any  storm. 
God  does  not  always  avert  the 
calamities  which  are  incident  to  the 
world  around  us  and  which  envelop 
and  plague  us,  because  men  must 
be  free  agents  unto  themselves.  The 
actions  of  wicked  men  can  bring  suf- 
fering to  many  who  are  innocent. 
But  the  Lord  can  and  will  give  us 
strength,  faith,  and  comfort,  if  we 
seek  them  from  him,  so  that  we 
may  live  courageously. 
We  have  heard  of  many  instances 
in  which  individuals,  under  various 
circumstances,  have  felt  the  sustain- 
ing influence  of  our  Heavenly  Fa- 
ther. Many  have  testified  that  they 
felt  his  sustaining  spirit  during  the 
grim  experiences  of  war,  still  others 
receive  inspiration  from  him  amid 
the  quiet  stillness  of  nature.  Many 
have  found  his  comfort  in  times  of 
illness,  sorrow,  and  need. 
Let  us  not  be  disheartened  if  we 
find  that  we  must  live  amidst  very 
trying  conditions,  many  of  which 
come  to  us  for  our  individual  de- 
velopment. ^  Remember,  not  one  of 
us  need  be  far  from  our  Heavenly 
Father.  Only  our  attitudes  and  the 
conduct  of  our  lives  can  keep  us 
remote  from  him.