Keeping Up With Sonny By C. E. C. Parents and Grandparents Become College Mates of Their Children Y name is Denby." There M was an expectant look in the little man's rather tired grey eyes that made me wonder what I was supposed to register at mention of the name. "You wished to enquire about I'reshman English?" "T want to take it. You're the teacher, aren't you? I guess you don't remember Erwin? Erwin Denby is my boy. He took English from you three years ago.' My mind began flipping the pages of dog-eared roll books and trying to photograph the crowded rows of freshmen that Room 145 L had imprisoned for me three years ago. "He is tall and slim and went out for track." My floundering had been detected and a life-line was being thrown out. "Oh, yes, yes, of course," I lied, justifying myself on the grounds of the expectancy in the tired eyes. "How is Erwin? What is he doing now?" "He's coming back to finish next year, but he stayed out the spring quarter to work in his uncle's store. That's how I was able to come to Summer School to brush up a little, and get a few credits to renew my certificate." "You're a teacher, then." "Yes. I've taught for fifteen years—out in Koosharum — ever since Erwin was five. I've been wanting to come back here and take some work for a long time. You see, I attended this school years ago when it was the B. Y. Academy, and this is my first chance to come back. We've had a real job getting our children through high school and giving Erwin a few years here in college." The fact that Erwin Denby's father had at last achieved an ambition, and was in college-—following in Erwin's footsteps — probably would not have specially interested me, had it not been that the very next person who desired information about my Freshman English class, proved to be the mother of Kenneth Vane. Kenneth had written freshman masterpieces for me no longer ago than the quarter just ended, and I am acquainted with Mrs. Vane, who keeps a students' rooming house a few blocks from the campus to help earn the college expenses of Kenneth and his sisters. "I'm just taking a class or two this summer," she confided, "to kinda keep along with the children and make it easier to understand the students' problems." When the father of Marion Carlton introduced himself on that same registration day, and told me he had come in from Vernal for Summer School so he could be with Marion a few weeks and to brush up a little in accounting, I began to wonder how general this movement of "keeping up with sonny" might be. Ay iE next day when I met my classes, ] made mental note of the generous sprinkling of bald and silver heads among the bobbed and 500 added to the little questionnaire I give my students to fill out the first day, the question: Who of your immediate family have attended, or are attending, this or some other college or university? Tabulation of these answers revealed what I had surmised, that many of my students were parents —a few of them grandparents— of college sons and daughters. Later I learned that one member of my Freshman English was the mother of ten children and had one grandchild; that she was using the text one of her sons had used in English I the year before; that one of her daughters, who had been teaching a couple of years, was back in college picking up a few hours to complete graduation requirements. They studied together; attended assembly together, and were companions at the Summer School socials. A younger daughter, who would be in college the next year, was acting as housekeeper for the family while her mother went to school. BSERVATION of the entire student body led me to conclude that my classes were quite typical. Of the four hundred summer school students, a noticeable number were middle-aged men and women, and casual conversations with many of them proved that among the group were a surprising number of parents of college students. The summer session would naturally draw a larger percentage of older students than the regular quarters since its curriculum is especially prepared to fit the needs of teachers. But an interview with the registrar informed me that even during the winter terms many parents, particularly mothers, enroll for a course RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE or two. I was given a list of the names of more than forty mothers who have taken work rather regularly during the past few years. Of these, thirteen have received their bachelor's and four their master's degrees. One who took her master's degree at the same commencement exercises that her daughter received her A. B., explained to me why and how she had done it. "When I was married, I hadn't finished high school; I lacked a unit and a half. Since I was living in a community where I could easily avail myself of school opportunities, I finished up that work. Then one day I read an article entitled: 'The Wife and Mother in the Background'. It pictured a family in which the wife had unselfishly sacrificed her personal advancement to help her husband and _ children ahead, only to find in the end that they had passed out of her narrow world into an intellectual realm she was not capable of entering, and that they failed to appreciate what she had done for them. They were brilliant successes; she was a pathetic failure in the background. "That article helped me to a determination to keep at least in the dust of my family. "After I had once set up an objective, I managed to take a course or two almost every year, either regularly, or, when the babies were small, by correspondence. On my eighteenth wedding anniversary, I donned the cap and gown that had been luring me from the distance. "T had not dreamed that I should ever go beyond an A. B.; but, you see, by that time, I had sort of acquired the habit of studying and enjoying college contacts; and decided it would be rather nice to be graduated with Helen." KEEPING UP "Do you plan to go on for your Ph. D.?" I asked her. "Well," she replied laughing, "you never can tell what these modern mothers and grandmothers may try. It's great fun—this keeping up with the family. I was just wondering last night if I dared challenge my freshman son to a race for a doctor's degree." One of the grandmother students I interviewed, a beautiful little woman with snow-white hair, but with a body as straight and quick as a boy's, told me that she had always been particularly interested in scientific courses. "You see," she explained, "I belong to a family of doctors. My father, two of his brothers, three of my cousins, my husband and two of our three sons are all physicians. ~I have no brothers and father always encouraged us girls along scientific lines. Then, too, my husband makes Nature his religion. I think that explains why I have taken more courses in scientific subjects than in anything else." 'This little woman has_ studied botany, zoology, geology and related subjects. About six years ago she attended the summer session of the university which is conducted in the mountains back of an Alpine-like glacier. Here she devoted most of her time to a course in botany with Dr. Coles from the University of Chicago, climbing, as she told me with pardonable pride, to the top of Mt. Timpanogos, nearly twelve thousand feet, several times. "And you were a grandmother at that time, weren't you?" I asked. "My goodness, yes. Let me see, —how many—well, I don't recall just how many grandchildren there were then, but we have twenty BB) now. WITH SONNY 501 Her 'four daughters and three sons have been her college mates, and she confided to me that she is looking forward to studying with a favorite grandson who has unusual 'scientific interests for a youngster. "T can see that your interests have not all been confined to science," I commented, looking about appreciatively at the fine 'paintings and shelves of classical books that surrounded us as we sat in her charming living room. "Oh, no. I have taken history and literature to get' a background for the two trips we have had to Europe. We spent one year in Europe and were there again when the War broke out. To get much out of trips like that, you have to prepare for them. Then I have three artist relatives who see to it that I don't neglect the aesthetic side of my education too much. But then, I just think every subject is wonderful." A sixteen year-old girl couldn't have spoken more enthusiastically. "It seems (to me that there isn't anything in the world that isn't interesting, and I expect to go on studying as long as I live."' Another of these grandmother co-eds is almost sixty and must weigh more than two hundred pounds. She is the mother of ten children. Her youngest son, she told me, was doing graduate work at Stanford University, and a married daughter, herself a mother, attends college also. "No, I am not taking a regular course," this grandmother replied in answer to a question. "I just come up and take a class now and then when I can; just so I'll sort of know what the young people are doing and thinking. This summer it is particularly easy for me to 502 come. You see, Father has taken to golf and gets up at five o'clock every morning; so I get up too and arrange things so I can come up with Mary. She's finishing up for her degree. You see, she married very young and now she's trying to make up for some of the opportunities she neglected." I asked what her family thought about her going to school. "Oh, father and the children take it as a sort of joke. They think it's a harmless hobby—going to school at my age, and awkward as I am at getting around; but really I think they're right proud of me. The grandchildren appreciate it anyway. It keeps me interested in real things so I don't have time to get critical and fussy as many grandmothers do. And then I really help them in lots of ways. You see, most of their mothers are very busy with their homemaking and with a good many more social duties than I take on; so when the children need help with a lot of little things, why they come to me. Just the other day I learned something in a sociology class that was just what my little granddaughter needed for her Sunday School lesson." "No, indeed!" she declared emphatically, when I asked if she had any idea of ceasing to "take classes as she could". "Till keep coming as long as I am able to get around; and after that"—She paused a moment and then finished exultantly as if a wonderful thought had somehow floated down to her from the walls of the library building on the steps of which we sat, "Why, after that, I can take correspondence work—and the grandchildren can read to me—if my eyes fail." Such are the attitudes of these mothers and grandmothers who are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE finding something more engrossing than bridge to fill up the leisure of middle life. One mother of four sons and a daughter, two of them college graduates, two others now in the ranks, - the youngest a junior in high school, said: "It's the most engrossing pastime in the world—this going to college with your sons and daughters. I started in with Bill. He now has a fine position in a Federal Bank in Washington. Then I took some classes with Emma: she signed her second high school contract this spring. Last year I competed in eugenics with Thornton, and in history with Claude. I've been in college ten years. In five more, if all goes well, I hope to be graduated with Gordon, my baby." TF I should try to sum up seriously the advantages of graduate study to parents as revealed in the optimistic reactions of these persons who are experimenting with it, I should probably have a statement something like this: First: It keeps the mind and soul from becoming dead wood. Longfellow, when asked -in his old age how he had kept his agility of mind, pointed to a gnarled apple tree near his study window and replied; "I take a lesson from that tree. Every year I contrive to study enough to produce sufficient new wood to put forth fresh blossoms. Without this new wood there could be no blossoms. But with it, the blossoms on that old tree are as fragrant as those on the young strippling across the lawn." Secondly: It sends old age scurrying into an undreaded future, and robs him of his hideousness. Parents and grandparents who are "following the gleam," who are growing old youthfully by the means of con- KEEPING UP tinuous education may sing with Ulysses: "Old age hath yet his honor and his toil; * Ok Ok Some work of noble worth may yet be done; eek 'Tis not too late to seek a newer world; * ok Ox To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." Or with Rabbi Ben Ezra: "Grow old along with me; 'the past may be borne. WITH SONNY 503 The best is yet to be, The last of life For which the first was made." Thirdly: It builds a bridge of sympathy and understanding between the old generation and the new, Over which the heritages of When the men and women of yesterday and today will keep abreast with the men and women of tomorrow in the progressive march of education, then there will be no tragedy or pathos as "the old order changeth, yielding place to new."
