Notes to the Field OcroBeR CONFERENCE Our Relief Society Conference will convene October 2nd and 3rd. So many helpful suggestions were given last year by the Stake Presidents who reported that we are sure our officers will be glad to know that reports from some other stakes will be a featue for one of the sessions. We look forward with pleasure to greeting our officers and hope the attendance will be large. Special Work For September: We urge every ward to conduct a Magazine campaign during the month of September. Plans for increasing the subscription list 'should be carefully made. Each home should be visited. Read in Notes to the Field in the August Magazine, page 464, what was accomplished in the Twentieth Ward of Ensign Stake. Increasing the subscription list from 17 to 101 is a record to be proud of. Our aim should be a Magazine for every member. Many non-members of our organization will subscribe if asked to do so. We have heard that some wards impose the Magazine subscription work on their secretaries. This is a mistake. The secretary has enough to do without this work. Each ward needs a Magazine agent. Others should assist her, however, in visiting the ward and in increasing the subscription list in all ways the agent and executive officers may deem advisable. Those who make the canvass should feel that they are doing an excellent thing in placing good reading matter in the homes of the people. They should realize that every officer and member needs the Magazine to get the lessons, to get the latest word from the General Board, in its value. The Field and to see what other organizations are doing. Those making the canvass should be able to talk on the value of good reading, on the special need of good reading today, that those who give out must first have taken in. Make the campaign intensive and short. District the ward. Select enthusiastic salesmen. Do not send out people who are not conversant with the Magazine and enthusiastic believers Send out those who can tell what the Magazine contains in a convincing manner. Salesmanship is the "process of having the ability to make others see as you see and do as you want them to do." "All selling is a matter of emotion." Prepare for the campaign and pray for its success. Have the agent study several Magazines carefully, noting what each contains, so that she can tell the prospective buyer what will appeal most to her. The Magazine salesman should have with her representative numbers of the Magazine to show to prospective subscribers. Tell us of your success and the plans you carried out to get the desired results. Honor Roll: In order that stakes and wards may know their rating regarding Magazine subscriptions and to stimulate interest we announce the following: Each ward should have subscriptions enough to equal 50 percent of their membership. Many wards will exceed this percentage. All wards reporting a subscription list equal to 75 percent of their NOTES TO THE FIELD membership will have their names and the names of the agents published on our honor roll. All wards reporting a subscription list equal to 100 per cent or over of their membership will not only have their names and the names of the successful agents published on a special honor roll but will receive from the General Board a certificate of appreciation. AUTHORITATIVE ADVICE This is what President Rudger Clawson says about our Magazine: "I wish to say a word in respect to the Relief Society Magazine. It is a wonderful Magazine. You must never forget that it is the Relief Society organ, it is your publication, it belongs to you, it is issued for your benefit. If a Relief Society sister should come to me and say, 'Brother Clawson, what is my responsibility to the Church publications?' I should say, without hesi-. Tation, 'My dear sister, your first obligation in this matter is to subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine. In it you will find every instruction and teaching that is 521 necessary for you, and then after that, if you want to subscribe for other magazines, it is all right, but for you, it should be the Relief Soctety Magazine first'." Our MEEETINGS RESUME We are happy to have our Relief Society meetings resume after the summer vacation. With renewed life we again take up the work determined to have this an outstanding year because of the excellence of the work we shall accomplish. It is desirable for each organization to set before itself some ideals that it will strive to reach during the year. We suggest that some desired ends to strive for are: Increase the attendance very materially. Begin and close each meeting on time. Get general participation in lesson work, Get each member to read the Relief Society Magazine. Have better block teaching than ever before. Get our charity work done more efficiently and helpfully. Notes from the Field Fremont Stake: THE following interesting report comes from the Fremont stake secretary: Through the enthusiasm of the Relief Society stake president, a District Teachers' Convention was held in the stake on June 9, 1931. The meetings convened in the Stake Tabernacle at Rexburg, Idaho. In the opening session six wards participated, and there was an attendance of 183 persons. Since there are fourteen wards in the stake, like conventions were held in the neighboring towns on the three following days. Two wards convened on the second day, four on the third, and two on the fourth. The attendance in all was most gratifying. A total of 461 active Relief Society workers. Participated., On Saturday, June 13, in the Stake Tabernacle, a brief summary of the work of the various conventions was given for the benefit of all wards, after whic& a delightful social was held, at which refreshments were served to 247 guests. The Stake Board acted as host. The loyal support of Relief Society organizations was manifest in the preparation for these inspirational conventions. The meeting places were spotless, floral decorations were profuse, and a spirit of cooperation and friendliness reigned 5zZ everywhere. We were extremely fortunate in having as our General Board visitor, Mrs. Elise B. Alder, whose untiring efforts added greatly to the success of the conventions. The spirit was: "If there is any good I can do, let me do it today, for tomorrow may be too late, and I shall not pass this way again." On Sunday, June 14, Sister Alder attended the stake Union Meeting, and gave additional inspiration and counsel to the ward presidents and teacher supervisors. As a band of stake workers we deeply appreciate having had a week of close association, and we feel that we have added to the zeal, vision and understanding of the work which is given us to do. North Davis Stake: ROM North Davis stake comes a most interesting account of the Davis County Child Welfare Council. This is one of the most progressive and thoroughly organized movements in the field of child welfare of which we have knowledge. It is a'movement which includes public spirited men and women from al! Walks of life, and receives the very hearty support of the Relief Society and the health units of the County. The purpose of the organization is to offer to all children of Davis County the health advantages outlined in the Children's Charter. The following plan is suggested: "Each child is to be urged to attend the free health conferences in the local community for physical examination. This especially applies to children entering school next fall, but includes children of all ages. "A list of the defects found will be given to each Relief Society president. From this list each president may formulate a group of those in need of a reduced medical fee. She RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE may add the names of children not listed if she knows of any needing correction; urging them to attend a health conference for examination if possible.; "The parents may arrange through the Relief Society President or directly with the nearest member of the executive committee to have the corrections made. The president will of course refer all cases to the local executive committee members. "Upon collection of the required fee, a card provided for the purpose by the committee, will be issued to the family, who will then make arrangement with the family doctor or dentist for the necessary operation or treatment. "Arrangements for the reduced fee may only be made with the doctors and dentists of Davis County, except in the case of eye corrections, which will be handled by an eye specialist. "The leaders of any organization, or any person, interested in any child needing care, may refer the case to the local executive committee member, cr to the Relief Society President. "All details pertaining to this plan are considered of a confidential na-~ ture, Any points not clearly understood may be discussed with the State Social Worker or any other member of the Child Welfare Council. "Any difficulties arising are to be referred to the executive committee. "The final decision concerning any case will rest with the executive committee. "It is especially desired that the Relief Society President will ask the teachers when making their monthly visits, to urge the parents of defective children to arrange for correction as soon as possible, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 523 "Each president will be informed as to the required fees. If cases arise about which she has no information, she may obtain the same by contact' with the local members of the executive committee." On the evening of June 21, 1931, a meeting was held in the North Davis Stake Tabernacle under the auspices of the North Davis Stake Relief Society, at which time Judge Hugo B. Anderson discussed the meaning of the Children's Charter, and Mrs, Julia A. F. Lund spoke on the subject of Relief Society cooperation in Child Welfare work. A large and enthusiastic group attended. Uintah Stake: qq following extremely interesting letter came from the Uintah Stake Board: "The Uintah Stake Board of Relief Society, wishes to express appreciation for the programs outlined for study during the past year. We feel that we have reached more homes and sisters than ever before. One of the projects undertaken this year is to have 100% visits made by our visiting teachers each month. All of the wards are taking an active interest in this work, and we are getting splendid response from the teachers. The ward having the highest per cent at the end of the Yellowstone Stake Celebration Yellowstone Stake: pA TONG the very interesting celebrations held on the anniversary of the Relief Society was that of Parker, Idaho. The above picture shows the cast of characters of the dramatization of the organization meeting of the Relief Society on March 17, 1842. Here we find the Prophet 'Joseph, John Taylor and Willard Richards represented. This gave a realistic touch and completeness to the reproduction. Year will be entertained by the other wards. We have made wonderful progress in our Secial Service Casework since the institute was held in our stake. During the winter we cooperated with the Red Cross and M. I. A., in obtaining a school nurse. The workers from each ward helped her with her work while she was in their district. Since school closed, we have cooperated with the child welfare organization, both financially and by giving our time in Uintah Stake Board caring for the school children who are having the follow-up work done. There is more cooperative work between the County, Stake and Wards than ever before, and a better understanding of our problems. "The picture above is of our Stake Board around the Horse Chestnut tree which we purchased and planted on our Tabernacle grounds.. "We felt honored to have one of our number called to fulfil a mission in Great Britain. Sister Elizabeth Wallis, in company with her husband, Bishop James H. Wallis, who was called to be Patriarch of the European Mission, left in May for her new field. We will truly miss our co-worker, for she has given loving and untiring service in our stake, and we wish her much joy and success in her new labor." Grant Stake: HE custom of the Grant Stake Societies to put on a stake enterprise each season, was sucessfully carried out this year by the production of the pageant given on the evenings of March 17 and 18, in commemoration of the 89th anniversary of the Relief Society organization. "Inasmuch as the Relief Society was studying the Book of Mormon, President Winnifred B. Daynes felt it would be appropriate to depict in pageantry the ancient inhabitants of our country as told in the Nephite records. Professor E. H. Eastmond had given successful presentations of "Voices from the Dust," which he had arranged. This suited our needs, so was therefore chosen by the board members. Songs, scenes and incidents correlating with the above work were introduced by the stake director, Mrs. Dott White, which added color and action. Characters worthy of the parts were selected from all the wards in the stake, including Bishops, High Councilmen, and faithful Relief Society workers. The eight Nephite prophets and fone Lamanite seer stepped out of the book of Mormon, each preceded by an allegorical character, paving the way for the message these propnets gave. And the Spirit of Restoration introduced the Latter-day prophet— Joseph Smith. NOTES FROM THE FIELD "The music, under the leadership of the Relief Society chorister, Mrs. Ida Horne White, was very effective, and the singers were all well trained, including the 60 children who represented the stars of the morning. There were 180 who participated in the production. The scenery was well chosen, the costumes of the ancient leaders and the lighting effects blended into the spirit of the occasion, making an interesting and beautiful rendition from beginning to end. "Assisting the director was Mrs. Jennie Chamberlain; the board members also gave willing and untiring service and cooperation, which is the big factor in the success of the Grant Stake Relief Society. "It is estimated that 5,000 people enjoyed this performance, and the respectful, appreciative audience contributed much to the success of this pleasing entertainment." Logan Stake: N the evening of June 5, 1931, the Logan stake Relief Society celebrated its eleventh anniversary by entertaining all ward officers and teachers of the Relief Society in the stake. This event was held in the Logan 2nd Ward Amusement Hall. There were over 300 present. Refreshments were served. A one-act play, "Sewing for the Heathens," was successfully presented by the members of the Logan Second Ward Relief Society. A trio, "Sing to the Lord," words written by Margaret Watson, Logan 11th ward, music composed by Lillie D. Meacham, Stake Board organist, was sung by members of the Logan llth ward Relief Society. The Logan lst ward chorus sang several selections. A sketch representing what has been done in the past, what is being done during the present time, and what we hope to accomplish in the future, was presented in 525 tableau form, by members of the stake board. This sketch was written and directed by Irene Naisbitt of the Logan llth ward. It was read by Mrs. Naisbitt as each tableau was shown. Everyone who saw it was very much impressed. A booklet, which the members of the Stake Board compiled as a souvenir, was presented to those who attended the entertainment. The invitation which was sent out to each one was in the form of a clever miniature apron in blue, stitched with gold, the Relief Society colors. In the pocket of the apron was the following invitation: This little apron is sent to you, On it a pocket you'll find. An invitation it carries, true blue, Requesting that you with us dine. For truly our Anniversary Day In program and fun we'll observe, Refreshments are free, surprises, but stay, The secret we must reserve. Now measure your waist 'round inch by inch And when the total you've found For each little inch a penny cinch Safe and snug in the pocket round. And your pennies shall purchase a prize for you, Of joy and remembrance quite rare. A treasure you'll value as others will do— A gift of the years you shall share. The proceeds were used to cover the expense of publishing the booklet. Every ward complied with the instructions of the General Board and planted a Norway Maple tree on their respective ward grounds, but inasmuch as there was no room on the Tabernacle grounds for any more trees, and on the Temple grounds were as many Norway Maples as they wished to have, our Stake Presidency suggested that we substitute another tree. Hence the reason for planting a Mountain Ash, as requested by President Shepherd.
