[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | November | Issue: 6 | Title: GEORGE ELIOT IN THE COVENTRY | Author: Unknown]

GEORGE ELIOT IN THE COVENTRY
			COTERIE.
	How does the death of a friend set the
mind gathering up all the broken threads
of an old friendship snapped by absence!
As memory brings up your friend’s like-
ness out of her treasure house, how does
she sit side by side with it in the same
gallery, other faces that belonged to your
friend’s peculiar sphere, and who made
up the life that has now passed beyond.
Some have passed the same way; others
are making the same review of the chap-
ter as you are yourself.
	Thus I have been engaged since I
learned of the death of Mary Sibree (later
Mrs. John Cash), one of the early friends
of “George Eliot,” and who formed with
the Bray trio that little charmed coterie


[Column 1]
at Rose Hill, Coventry. During the years
of her girlhood they constituted her
world. Mrs. Cash says, “As we closed
the Bray’s garden doors together, I re-
marked, we seemed to be entering Para-
dise. Marian Evans said, ‘I do indeed
feel that I shut the world out when I shut
that door.’”
	One of my last visits on leaving Eng-
land was a farewell one to Mrs. John
Cash, who lived in the same “Rosehill”
that had formerly been the Bray’s Para-
dise. “The inevitable regret,” writes
George Eliot to Mrs. Cash, “of their
moving is softened as much as possible
by the fact that the house has become
yours,” They moved only to a long
stone’s throw, so the intercourse was un-
interrupted, excepting that it was now
without the phenomenally attractive Ma-
rian Evans.
	I remember being shown “Foleshill,”
where she had lived with her suffering
father—the window over the porch where
she did her studying—and the shady spot
on the Rosehill lawn where the philo-
sophical discussions went on with so
much animation, and not without tender-
ness.
	Sara Hennell was the great philosopher
among the young ladies. I remember
years afterwards the great Charles Darwin
saying to me, “Do you know that Miss Hen-
nell has been spinning philosophy out of
my scientific facts? She has sent me her
new book about it, but for the life of me
I can’t make out head nor tail out of it.”
	I laughed, adding, “We must not tell
Miss Hennell that when we see her next.”
She sometimes came to stay with another
neighbor of ours, near the little village of
Downe, in Kent, Miss Bonham-Carter,
who had been a pupil of Miss Hennell’s
at one time.
	Her sister, Mrs. Bray, I recollect as
having one of the most angelic looking
faces I have ever seen. Beautifully fair,
and sweet, with soft, light auburn curls.
She was just as clever in her way as her
sister Sara, only it took a more practical
form, and her books could be understood
by anybody. In 1863, years before the
thought occurred to anyone else, Mrs.
Bray published “Physiology for Common
Schools,” of which book George Eliot
says: “I thank you, dear Cara, not simply
for giving me the book, but for having
put so much faithful labor in a worthy
direction, and created a lasting benefit
which I can share with others.” Later
she was the pioneer in another school
topic, which is now—thirty years later—
beginning to take its proper place in the
moral education of our children, that of
fostering the spirit of kindness to animals.
At the time I saw Mr. Charles Bray he
had been bitten by the love of Phrenol-
ogy, and talked very interestingly on it.
He is well known by his work, “The
Philosophy of Necessity,” ect.
	Mr. Bray had been a ribbon manufac-
turer of Coventry. He lost his money at
the time of the so-called ribbon famine in
Coventry. It was at this juncture that
the old mother of the Cash’s gave them
her inspiration, that the costly machinery
could make cotton instead of silk ribbon,
to be “fulled up” for frilling. So long ago
as this, woman’s brain was capable of in-
ventiveness! At the time of the “ribbon
famine” my friend, Mrs. Cash, worked
herself into an illness striving to help the
starving operatives. The result of this

[column 2]
illness was a very learned book, which
she intended to be an illustration of that
startling work, “Ecce Homo.” For a
long time the authorship was a puzzle;
eventually solved by Prof. Seeley be-
coming known as the writer. As puzzling
was the true identity of George El-
iot. For two years did that remain a
mystery. Not even could her Coventry
friends guess it to be their “Marian.” It
seems to have been maintained on ac-
count of the way the world regarded her
union with George Lewes. This union
threatened at first to break up the tender
feeling of the old-time coterie. For sev-
eral months no letters seem to have been
exchanged. Miss Hennell was evidently
the first to condone it. In the following
year, 1855, a letter was written in answer
to a remonstrating one from her sweet
friend, Mrs. Bray. She says: “We are
working hard to provide for others better
than we provide for ourselves, and to
fulfill every responsibility that lies upon
us. * * * Light and easily broken
ties are what I neither desire theoretically
nor could live for practically. Women
who are satisfied with such ties do not act
as I have done.”	
	The divorce laws of England were ex-
ceedingly strict, and allowed no loophole
of escape for Mr. Lewes from his first
most utterly uncongenial marriage, whose
true ties had been, I believe, already sev-
ered in reality by his wife.
	I remember hearing at the time of their
son Thornie’s long illness and subsequent
death in 1869, she came to see her son in
George Eliot’s home.
	Mrs. Cash was staying with us, I think,
about the same year, when she saw her
old friend again for the first time since
she had united herself with George Lew-
es. It was one of her weekly at-home
days at the ‘Priory.” Mrs. Cash said on
return that there was a string of great
people’s carriages drawn up outside the
gates. Excepting the knowledge that the
step had at last been condoned by the
“upper ten.” it was poor pleasure to Mrs.
Cash to meet her friend again, with her
warm heart and tender ways, beneath the
eye of the public.
	Just as we went to make our home at
Downe, we found that George Eliot had
but lately vacated “Blackbrook,” Chisel-
hurst, within four miles of us. She had
stayed there a few months as an experi-
ment, in order to find out whether it
would be desirable for a country home.
Some friends of our own went to live at
Blackbrook, with its “fine lawn and grand
trees,” immediately afterwards—a sister
of Sidney Dobell, the poet. I need hard-
ly say how redolent the house seemed on
my first visit with its former famous occu-
pant, George Eliot. People who knew
her there spoke of her as being a great
invalid most of the time, but generally her
health always improved on moving away
from London.
	At the beginning of her literary life,
when she was working at journalism, it
seemed necessary to live there, but when
her successful fiction pushed journalism
into the background, it seems a great
pity that she did not eschew London
with its poor air, its yellow fogs, smoke
blackened bricks and mortar, acting as it
did as a perpetual depressant to George
Eliot’s highly sensitive temperament,
But for these anti-climatic influences it
seems as though she might have been

[Column 3]
here yet, with the still deeper “satisfac-
tion,” as she says of her first book, “in
having done a bit of faithful work, that
will remain like a primrose root in the
hedgerows, and gladden and chasten hu-
man hearts for years to come.” She did
live long enough to see the wish fulfilled,
expressed in a letter io Miss Hennell:
“If I live five years longer,” she writes in
1857, “the positive result of my existence
on the side of truth and goodness will
outweigh the small negative good that
would have consisted in my not doing
anything to shock others; and I can con-
ceieve no consequences that will make
me to repent the past.”
	Long after that she pens this testimo-
ny: “I am very happy—happy in the
highest blessing life can give us, the per-
fect love and sympathy of a nature that
stimulates my own to healthful activity.”
At the commencement of their “dual
solicitude”—as she expresses their life
together—one is struck with the way the
two brick led to the perpetual mill of
journalistic work, grinding out articles
and reviews on all kinds of abstruse sub-
jects for the “Westminster” and other
magazines, in order to provide an educa-
tion for Mr. Lewes’ sons. The marvelous
success of her fiction must have indeed
come in as a blessed relief to all this
“grind” to a woman after suffering from
frail and feeble health.
	In comparing George Eliot with the
Russian mathematician Sonya Kovalevs-
ky (whose life has lately appeared), an-
other woman with “a man’s head and a
woman’s heart,” how incomparably more
happy for George Eliot that she became
the wife of a man of whom she could say,
in words to the same effect, as each suc-
ceeding year she closed her journal: “My
happiness deepens, the blessedness of a
perfect love and union grows daily.”
