[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | November | Issue: 6 | Title: The Relief Society | Author: invitation of the President of the]

THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
EXTRACTS FROM RECORDS.
	First organization of L. D. S. Relief
Society, and instructions given by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith.
	By invitation of the President of the
Church, a number of sisters convened in
the Masonic Lodge room, on the 17th of
March, 1842, President Joseph Smith,
Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards
were present.
	President Smith stated that the meet-
ing was called for the purpose of making
more complete the organization of the
Church by organizing the women in the
order of the Priesthood.
	John Taylor was called to the chair
and Willard Richards acted as secretary.
After singing and prayer, a vote was taken
to know if all were satisfied with each
sister present, and willing to acknowl-
edge them in good fellowship and admit
them to all the privileges of the institu-
tion about to be organized. All being
satisfied, the names of those present were
taken as follows:
	Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira
A. Coules, Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe
Ann Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook, Desde-
mona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth Jones, Le-
onora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia
Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sophia
Robinson, Philinda Herrick, Phebe M.
Wheeler, Sophia R. Marks.
	President Smith then explained some
of the duties that should devolve on mem-
bers of the society, said they could pro-
voke the brethren to good works, look
after the needs of the poor, and perform
charitable acts. Women must assist in
correcting the morals and strengthening
the virtues of the community. Said it is
now in order for the sisters to elect a
President to preside over the Society and
let her choose two counselors to assist in
the duties of her office. He would ordain
them and let them preside just as the


[Column 1]
Presidency presided over the Church, and
if they needed his instruction they could
ask and he would be pleased to give it
from time to time. Let the Presidency
serve as a constitution and their deci-
sions become precedents for you to act
upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the
designs of the institutions, let them be
appointed and set apart, as Teacher,
Deacons, etc., are among us.
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved, and
Sophia Packard seconded the motion that
Emma Smith be elected President of the
society, the vote was put by the chairman
and pronounced unanimous. The Presi-
dent Elect made choice of Sarah M.
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as
her counselors.
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed Secretary
and Phebe M. Wheeler assistant Secre-
tary and Elvira A. Coules, Treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith read the Reve-
lation to Emma Smith from the Doctrine
and Covenants, and stated that she was
ordained at the time the Revelation was
given, to expound the Scriptures, to
teach, etc.
	He then read the Scriptures to show
that an elect lady is one elected to pre-
side. By request of President Joseph
Smith, Apostle John Taylor ordained
Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, to be counselors to and assist
President Emma Smith in the duties of
her office, and share in the blessings per-
taining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her
former ordination and blessed her to be a
mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue and
to possess all the qualifications necessary
to enable her to preside with dignity and
give such instruction, as may be requisite
in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and
President Emma Smith and counselors
took the stand.
	A lengthy discussion followed on the
question, "What shall this Society be
called?" Mrs. Cleveland and Whitney
advocated the appropriateness of the
name Relief Society. John Taylor and
Joseph Smith spoke in favor of the word
Benevolent, Emma Smith and E. R.
Snow argued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland's
choice. The gentlemen withdrew their
objection and a motion to adopt the
name Relief Society was unanimously
carried.
	Pres. Joseph Smith then said, "I now de-
clare this Society organized with presi-
dent and counselors. And who shall
hereafter be admitted must be free from
censure and admitted by vote. President
dent Joseph Smith laid down a five dollar
gold piece to commence a Relief Society
fund and said, "What I do hereafter for
charity, I shall do through this society,"
Sarah M. Cleveland gave 12 ½ cts. Sarah
M. Kimball, $1.00, Emma Smith, $1.00,
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, 50cts., Willard
Richards, $1 00, John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the 3rd meeting of the Society,
March 30th, President Joseph Smith said,
the members of the society must act in
concert, or nothing can be accomplished.
To move according to the ancient Priest-
hood, this must be a select society, sep-
arate from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting, April 28th. President
Joseph Smith said he was present to
speak upon the Priesthood, and his in-
structions were intended only for mem-

[Column 2]
bers of the Society, he wished those not
members to withdraw. After which he
called attention to the 12th chapter of Co-
rinthians, "Now concerning spiritual gifts,"
etc., said the passage which reads, "No
man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but
by the Holy Ghost," etc., should be trans-
lated "No man can know," etc., contin-
ued the reading of the chapter, and gave
instructions respecting the different offices
and the necessity of every individual act-
ing in the place allotted to him or her,
and filling the office to which they were
appointed.
	Spoke of the disposition of some to
consider the lower offices in the Church
dishonorable and to look with jealous
eyes on the position of others; said it was
the nonsense of the human heart to aspire
to positions not appointed of God, that
it was better for individuals to magnify
their respective callings and wait patient-
ly till God shall say to them, "Come up
higher," said it was talked by members of
the Society that some were not doing
right in laying hands on the sick. If they
had common sympathy, they would re-
joice that the sick could be healed. The
time has not been before when these
things could be in their proper order. The
Church is not now organized in its proper
order and cannot be until the temple is
completed. He referred to the commis-
sion given to the ancient Apostles, "Go
ye into all the world," etc., no matter
who believes these signs, such as healing
the sick, casting out devils, should follow
all that believe, whether male or female,
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick,
let them do so, and let the good work roll
on. It is no sin for anybody to adminis-
ter to the sick that has faith, or if the sick
have faith to be healed by the adminis-
tration.
	Reproved those that were disposed to
find fault, spoke at some length on the
difficulties he had had to surmount ever
since the organization of the Church, on
account of aspiring men, said the same
aspiring disposition will be in this Society
and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would in-
struct the Society how to act according to
the will of God. He did not know that
he should have many opportunities of
teaching them, they were going to be left
to themselves, they would not long have
him to instruct them, the Church would
not have his instruction long and the
world would not be troubled with him a
great while, according to his prayer God
had appointed him elsewhere. The con-
gregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with
their confidence, their faith, and their
prayers, those whom God had appointed
to lead. Said the keys are about to be
given to you that you may be able to de-
tect anything false, as readily as the Eld-
ers. If members of the Society become
corrupt, you must deal with them, the
sympathies of the heads of the Church
have induced them to bear with those that
were corrupt, in consequence of which
all become contaminated, you must put
down iniquity and by your good example
provoke the Elders to good works.
	If you do right, there is no danger of
going too fast, resist evil, and there is no
danger, neither God, men, angels or dev-
ils can condemn those that resist every-
thing that is evil. As well might the
devil seek to dethrone Jehovah as that

[Column 3]
soul that resists everything evil. You are
now placed in a situation where you can
act according to those sympathies which
God has planted in your bosoms. If you
accord with your privileges angels cannot
be restrained from being your associates.
	Women if they are pure and innocent
can come into the presence of God. If
we would come into the presence of God
we must be pure. The devil has great
power, his ways are deceptive. Do not
be contentious, but let the weight of in-
nocence be felt, which is more mighty
than a millstone hung about the neck,
meekness, love, purity, these are the
things that should magnify us.
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the
veil will be rent and the blessings of
heaven will flow down,
	After this instruction you will be more
responsible; it is an honor to save your-
selves, all are responsible for themselves.
Then read the 13th chapter of Cor.,
"Though I speak with the tongue of
men," etc., said do not be limited in your
views in regard to your neighbors' vir-
tues, do not think yourselves more right-
eous than others. You must enlarge your
souls towards others, if you would do
like Jesus and carry your fellow creatures
to Abraham's bosom, He had manifested
long suffering and we must do the same.
	Said, "Though one have the spirit of
prophecy," etc., though one should be-
come mighty and do great things, over-
throw mountains, and then turn to do
that which is evil, all former deeds would
not save them, but they would go to de-
struction. As you increase in innocence,
virtue and goodness, let your hearts ex-
pand, let them be enlarged towards
others, you must be long-suffering and
bear with the faults and errors of man-
kind. How precious the souls of men!
The society is to get instruction through
the order which God has established,
through the medium of those appointed
to lead, and I now turn the key to you in
the name of God, and this Society shall
rejoice and knowledge and intelligence
shall flow down from this time, this is the
beginning of better days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross
word, but let kindness, charity and love
crown your works. Do not envy sinners,
exercise mercy towards them.
	Let your administrations be confined
mostly to those around you. As far as
knowledge is concerned, it may extend to
all the world. But your administration
should be confined to the circle of your
acquaintance, and more especially to the
members of the Society. Those ordained
to lead the Society are authorized to ap-
point officers as the circumstances shall
require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be
in your own tongue, do not indulge too
much in the gift of tongues, or the devil
will take advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your
comfort. But I lay this down as a rule,
that if anything is taught by the gift of
tongues, it is not to be received as doc-
trine.
	President Smith then gave instruction
respecting women administering to the
sick by the laying on of hands, said it was
according to revelation, he never was
placed in similar circumstances and never
had given the same instruction.
	At the ninth Relief Society meeting,
May 26th, the Prophet read the 14th


[Column 1]
chapter of Ezekiel, and said the Lord
had declared by that prophet that the
people shonld each one stand for them-
selves and depend on no man or men; in
the state of corruption in the Jewish
Church, the righteous persons could only
deliver their own souls. Applied it to the
present condition of the Church of Lat-
ter-day Saints. If the people depart
from the Lord, they must fall, they were
depending on the Prophet, hence there
was darkness in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the
Society. Be guarded in your speech, no
organized body can exist without giving
heed to this caution. All organized bod-
ies have their peculiar evils, weaknesses
and difficulties, the object is to make
those not so good equal with the good,
and ever hold the keys of power which
will influence to virtue and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove, never
mention it again, then you will be estab-
lished in power, virtue and holiness and
the wrath of God will be turned away.
God designs to save the people out of 
their sins. Jesus said, "Ye shall do the
works which ye see me do," these are the
grand key-words for the Society to act 
upon. 
	The tenth meeting was addressed by
Bishop N. K. Whitney, President Joseph
Smith being present. 
	Eleventh meeting, June 9th, President
J. Smith, "It grieves me that there is no 
fuller fellowship, if one member suffers
all feel it, by union of feeling we obtain
power with God, Christ said He came to 
call sinners to repentance and to save
them, Christ was condemned by the 
righteous Jews because He took sinners
into His society, He took them upon the 
principle that they repent. Nothing is so
much calculated to lead people to forsake
sin, as to take them by the hand and 
watch over them with tenderness. The 
nearer we get to our Heavenly Father,
the more we are disposed to look with 
compassion on perishing souls. I say to
this Society, if you would have God have 
mercy on you, have mercy on each other.
How mild the Savior dealt with Peter,
saying, "When thou art converted,
strengthen thy brethren," at another time
He said to him, "Lovest thou me? Feed
my sheep." The Society is not only to 
relieve the poor, but to save souls.
	Sixteenth meeting. held in the Grove,
August 31st, 1842. After relating rceent
difficulties he had encountered while be-
ing hunted by his enemies, he said the Re-
lief Society has taken an active part in 
my welfare, in petitioning the Governor
in my behalf. These means were nec-
essary, and your influence helped to 
bring about my redemption from the 
hands of my enemies. I have come here
to bless you. The Society has done well,
their principles are to practice holiness.
God loves you and your prayers shall
avail much, do not cease to let them as-
cend to God in my behalf. The enemy 
will never get weary. I expect he will ar-
ray everything against me, expect a trem-
endous warfare. He that will war the
Christian warfare will have all the powers
of darkness continually arrayed against
him.
	A few things had been manifested to
him during his absence, respecting bap-
tism for the dead, which he would com-
municate next Sabbath if nothing should
occur to prevent it. He then offered a

[Column 2]
fervent prayer to God in behalf of the 
Society. After the transaction of some
business in the adjustment of which Pres.
Smith offered counsel, said he had one
more remark to make respecting baptism
for the dead, which must suffice for the
present until he had the opportunity to
present the subject at a greater length.
	All persons baptized for the dead must
have a recorder present, that he may be
an eye-witness to testify of it. It will be
necessary in the Great Council that these
things be testified of. It should be at-
tended to from this time. If there is any
lack, it may be at the expense of our
friends. This was the last R. S. meeting
that President Joseph Smith attended.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
