[Vol4 | November 1917 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Parents' Problems Lucy Wright Snow]

Parents' Problems. Lucy Wright Snow. HOW TO TEACH SCRIPTURE TO THE CHILD OF ALL AGES. What is there in the Holy Scriptures that my children can understand? Is the study of Holy Scriptures necessary to the child's proper guidance? If so, how can I make the Scriptures plain and interesting to my children? These are some of the questions that thoughtful mothers are asking daily. There was once a humble mother who had reared her children in poverty and without the aid of a kind husband, and who was so successful that people marveled. At length a friend made so bold as to ask her what was the secret of her great success, spying, "We have wondered about your success, knowing that you have never been able to purchase any books, even of the classics." Her reply was quickly given, "Why, my the dear woman. I have had books, indeed the classic of classics Bible, and the Book of Mormon." She had found what few mothers find '.
 how to interpret the Holy Scriptures and how to apply them to the every-day needs of her family. Let us consider the literary needs of a child from the first to the twenty-fifth year of his life by steps, and find what scriptural study will fit into each step or year, according to such needs. FIRST TO THIRD YEAR. There can be little formal religious training till the third year, the child is not able to absorb it before that time except; Rowers absorb sunshine, mother-love in his religion. He should be subject, however, to sweet and harmonious sounds such as a mother's lullaby or hymns and other sweet music, as their soothing and quieting influence upon the nervous system plays an important part in preparing his mind for the dawn of a reasoning which may begin to develop as he reaches the fourth year; it has been said that a normal child begins to philosophize at about four years, and his philosophy is his religion. THIRD YEAR. Physical needs  12 hours sleep, 4 hours rest. About the third year the child is developing so rapidly in mentality that imagination is born. He has learned a language and has accomplished much mentally. He should be educated by play and stories. Care must be taken at this age to teach him poise and muscle control. The body, especially the fingers and feet, should be kept active so that the brain will not develop too rapidly, and produce nervousness or stammering. He has by this time, developed great interest in stories, principally wonder or fairy stories. The mother should tell the stories in an interesting way, always careful that so small a child shall not become excited. The story teller should keep vividly in mind the fact that fear is born with imagination, and if she be not mindful, she might cultivate fear while stimulating interest. He may be told that God is our Father who lives in heaven, and be taught to pray formally, for though he may be as yet unable to grasp the object of this teaching, some of it will be absorbed and have its moral effect, and that which is not absorbed, will do no harm. He has no doubt formed the baby habit of crossing tiny hands at mother's knee since his second year; but now he will begin to reason about it and to ask questions. It will give a child of this are a feeling of protection, to be t( !d that angels are near him. Tell him in simple words about 'the Creation; about God controlling the elements  it is like a fairy story to a child to hear of God saying, "Let there be light; and there was light." Tell the story of the Tower of Rabel in PARENTS' PROBLEMS. 625 very simple words, e. g., Once upon a time, many people built a high tower (illustrate with blocks), they wanted to climb into heaven and live with God, etc., etc. Story of Baby Boy Moses. FOURTH TO SIXTH YEAR. The body and brain are growing very rapidly now, and thirteen hours sleep are required, with one to three hours additional rest. Imagination is still enjoyed. The dramatic instinct develops and curiosity is strong. Now is the mother's opportunity to impart to the child some of life's most valuable lessons by playing "pretend" with him. Dramatize such stories as David Slaying the Lion, Daniel in the Lion's Den, Joseph Sold into Egypt, and Moses on the River. Emphasize David's faith and reliance upon the Lord; Daniel's prayer and wonderful delivery through faith and prayer. Inspire interest in the story of Joseph beginning with the significance of the coat of many colors, e.g., Joseph's father made for him a coat of many colors, which was the custom at that time for fathers to do for one who was an appointed ruler. When Joseph appeared before his brothers wearing the garment of distinction, they were jealous and wished to do away with him. After some discussion, as to what they should do with him they decided to sell him to some merchants who chanced to be passing, but first they robbed him of the coat of many colors, for had they allowed him to wear it, the merchants would have recognized him as an appointed ruler and bowed down and worshipped him instead of buying him as a slave. Teach how Moses was protected for a wise purpose. As this is also an age of memorizing, the child may find great pleasure in memorizing such passages as Luke 2:8-14: "And there were in the same country, shepherds abiding in the field"  and in connection with this passage tell him all about swaddling clothes. There is some interesting history given about this subject in Mme. Lydia Mountford's Christ in His Homeland. She tells that the first of the swaddling clothes was of pure white silk striped with blue; that shows that he was a royal child. Besides the royal house of David, He comes from the house of Boaz through Ruth and they must bring the sign of the mother's family, a swaddling garment of red. What else is the child Jesus to be? He is to be a king and a ruler of the world, so he has to have a swaddling garment of many colors. It will be readily seen that the Christ child could be easily recognized by the wise men from these very symbols. The child may also memorize the Lord's Prayer and be told the story of how Christ taught it to His disciples in America (Book of Mormon). 
 SEVENTH TO NINTH YEAR. Slow bodily development. Increasing muscular activity. Child easily fatigued and needs twelve or thirteen hours sleep. He is now especially fond of myths and folk lore, narrative and nature study. He will enjoy a real study of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. Tell where the garden was ( Genesis; also revelation given to Joseph Smith; see Pearl of Great Price, chapter 2) and about God giving Adam the care of this beautiful and wonderful garden. Let him make an imaginary garden of Eden, locating the rivers and other interesting points. Mention that God told Adam to give all the animals a name. He will be interested in manual training and may hear much of the flood and the building of the ark. Other ancient shipbuilding, Book of Ether, chap. 2. He will be much interested in learning the origin of the American Indian, found in the Book of Mormon. Point out scripture showing where the Indian was cursed with a dark skin, II Nephi 5:21. While the Book of Mormon stories have always been told him, now is the time to tell him how the book came into existence, etc. He is now capable of understanding the story of Christ. As this is the year for Baptism a most valuable lesson is brought to bear in the temptations of Christ, after his forty days' fast. In this lesson there is an excellent opportunity to teach the child to fast, as there is no better way to teach self-control, and a child as young as four years can be taught to fast, if tactfully guided. The mother should be careful, however, in this lesson, that she does not overtax him. The fast should be of short duration,*and great attempts, care and taken that he led he should victorious to do it the first two and pleasantly or without teasing or crying. The spirit of the fast is self-denial and that can often be taught by having only bread and water for a day. TENTH TO TWELFTH YEAR. These are the years of storing up energy; a sort of physical lull; eleven hours sleep needed. The child of this age will have a craze for reading and he may read the Scriptures through by himself. As he will be influenced now by ideals in books, he should be especially well directed in his selection of literature. He loves stories of heroes and may study the story of David and Goliath, pointing out David's reliance upon the Lord; also David before Saul. Tell of Elijah; his personal appearance, his mission and then the great fulfilment of the prophecy uttered hundreds of years ago by the PARENTS' PROBLEMS. 627 prophet Malachi (Malachi 4:5,6). Show that this prophecy has been fulfilled (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 128). Elijah came to earth and visited the Kirtland Temple in 1836. Give him the study of Moroni, the great general of Book of Mormon fame. A child of this age will be especially interested in Moroni's strategic proceedings in war. A wonderful hero story is that of the 2,000 young Lamanites (Alma 53rd chap.), who went up to battle to save their country, and through their faith and reliance upon the Lord won the battle without the loss of a single man. The story of Sampson is interesting, but the hero should be brought to light more as a victim of disobedience than anything else, for while he received a gift of wonderful strength from the Lord, he lost many blessings through unwisdom and disobedience. THIRTEENTH TO FIFTEENTH YEAR. This is the period of unrest, and parents have the difficult task of understanding a child who does not understand himself. It is the clime novel period, and the time for parents to surround the child with the finest moral and religious influences available. Children of this age are idealistic and will often form strong attachments for people whom they know or read about. Parents need not feel hurt or disheartened if the child puts them aside for the time being, and chooses other ideals, but let them be happy if the object of the new ideal be a worthy one, and join with him in his adoration; that ideal can do much toward molding the future man's life by power of suggestion. After a time the child will return to the parents with all the love and interest that has perhaps been made possible by their efforts and those of the new ideal combined. He will enjoy Paul's missionary journeys, studying them carefully, from the map. He will recognize Paul as a great hero and be influenced by his teachings. He should study his Bible with some person who can bring out different points of interest from time to time and carry on interesting discussion. In this way the child will absorb what he reads and develop a respect and reverence for scripture that will afford him everlasting joy. FIFTEENTH TO SEVENTEENTH YEAR (ADOLESCENCE) . During these years the nervous system is undergoing almost a metamorphosis. The brain is trying to adapt itself to the bodily functions, and the bodily functions to the direction of the brain. No matter how well the child has been guided, he now finds it difficult to get control of himself; he finds himself unable 
 to control his emotions and gain further mastery of himself, and consequently suffers self-consciousness. He is now in need of the most careful guidance. A vivid picture of what idleness and dissipation will lead to, is shown by the history of the Lamanites (Book of Mormon). The youth will be impressed with the prophecies now and can follow many of them to their fulfilment, e.g., Malachi, 4th chapter. 5. 6. the prophecy of Samuel the Lamanite  Book of Mormon, page 464, the prophecies concerning the world wars, given through Joseph Smith, December 25th, 1832, Doc. and Cov., Sec. 87. He should be with his father as much as possible, and the wise father will stimulate his desire to study scripture by introducing interesting stories and subjects for discussion, e.g., : Story of the brother of Tared seeing the full form of Jesus in the preexistent state (Book of Mormon, page 577), Story of the Christ speaking to Nephi on the American continent, the day before he was born in the flesh on the eastern continent (III Nephi 1:11-14). Tic is less susceptible to the advice of his parents than he has been heretofore, and must, therefore, be guided with greater wisdom, tact and patience than at any previous time of his life. It would be well if his elders were able to overlook many of his follies and imperfections and not expect too much of him for a time. If he has been properly guided till he reaches adolescence, patience and endurance linked with good companionship, will insure a safe conduct over this anxious period of his life. When the boy is in his best mood, introduce the study of the Prodigal Son, also the story of Lehi and his family, emphasizing the difference in character of the sons of Lehi (Book of Mormon). Story of Joseph and Potiphar's wife, with underlying principle of chastity. EIGHTEENTH TO TWENTY-FIFTH YEAR (MATURITY). We now find our child deeply plunged into the philosophy of human existence. He will study pre-existence, the present and the future; where we came from, why we are here, and what will become of us after death. He will learn that there is no joy known equal to that of teaching and living the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and that in order to do either one successfully, he must get very close to the Lord, and live for the good that he can do. How happy he will be now if he has been guided through all the years to a correct understanding of the scriptures, and how ' much more able to go out and meet the world in its darkness! How many times will he be thankful that he knows how to pray, and he will now begin to be grateful that mother and father PARENTS' PROBLEMS. 629 were superior people, superior in" knowledge to many of the people among whom he walks. He will rejoice in teaching the Gospel at this missionary period and will be valuable in doing the Lord's work if he has been prepared for such by a wholesome home environment. BOOKS FOR STUDY OF THIS SUBJECT Bible  History of Judah. Book of this of Mormon  History of God's dealings with the people continent. Doctrine and Covenants  Modern revelation. Pearl of Great Price-  Story of creation  Book of Abraham. Jesus the Christ, by James E. Talmage. Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage. New Witnesses for God, by B. H. Roberts. Added Upon (celestial marriage), by Nephi Anderson. Key to Theology, by P. Pratt. All the old Faith-Promoting Series. Tell Me a True Story. (Bible stories simplified by Mary Stewart). BALM By Maud Baggarley. There's healing balm For the aching heart; For the weary soul, A heavenly calm; Peace shines like a star o'er all, When the long, long day is done. Fret and grief and dark despair Each shall last but a brief, brief day. Ere the hand of God, the Comforter, Shall sweep them all away.