[Vol4 | November 1917 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: in Israel Mothers in Israel]

Mothers in Israel. UNSUNG HEROINES. Not all the great and remarkable women of this Church are known publicly." Indeed one sometimes wonders why public honors and responsibilities are given to certain ones and withheld from others equally deserving and equally capable. Greatness of soul sometimes manifests itself in sweet retirement and in that true nobility which hesitates always to acclaim its own worth. The noisy heroines who are ever eager to betray their valiant sacrifices' are too often accorded all honors and given all the praise. This Church has been founded by a race of heroes and heroines, by men and women possessed of the courage and fortitude to accept truth though martyrdom be the price which is paid. Not all the pillars support the lintels of the gate beautiful. Some linger in the shadowy recess of the peristyle, yet each was cut with the same chisel, polished by the same attrition and moulded by the same artist-designer. So at times we love to render affectionate reverence to the unsung heroines who constitute our own modest order of nobility among this people. SUSAN WEST SMITH. There lived and loved, suffered and strove, many families of the leading men in the early days of Utah's history. Opposite the Lion House was erected the famous Historian's Office, planned by President George A. Smith as a joint home for his family and for the receptacle of the priceless records and manuscripts of this people and of the Church. In this house lived our honored and well-known late President Bathsheba W. Smith, the first wife of this famous Church historian and leader, with "Aunt" Susan West Smith and her family of little girls. The open porchway of the basement story where was the roomy and pleasant 
 kitchen where Aunt Susan worked, contained the stone coffin of Aunt Bathsheba's only son who was slain by the Indians in the very early days. The grim suggestiveness of the tragedy enclosed within those stone lids did not sadden the life nor mar the genial sweetness of Aunt Susan and her merry-hearted brood of little girls; but it was difficult for me as a child to run past the porchway, if the shades of night had overtaken me, yet the warmth and welcome of Aunt Susan's kitchen-living room made me forget in an instant the shadow outside. Susan Elizabeth West Smith was a heroine in her own right. She was born Dec. 4, 1833. at Chalk Level P. O.. Benton county, Tennessee. She was the daughter of Samuel and Margaret Cooper West, old American stock. The family joined the Church in Tennessee when Susan was a baby. Learning of the terrible mobbings and other troubles in Clay county, Missouri, they remained in Kentucky for a number of years, finally reaching Nauvoo, 111., in 1842. Although a small girl at the time she vividly remembers the Prophet and the Patriarch, having seen them together many times riding on their big while horses; and she listened often to the Prophet's inspiring teachings at the religious gatherings. She remembers very well the martyrdom and recalls painfully the awful gloom which spread like a pall over all the people at that time. She left Nauvoo in the spring of 1846, and that same summer came to Mount Pisgah for a few months, then moved on to Kanesville, where the family remained until the spring of 1851, when they continued their journey westward, reaching the Valley in October. While in Salt Lake City the family camped on the Jordan, and after the October Conference they went on to Parowan, Iron county, being among the pioneers of that section. Their community life was happy with pioneer entertainments, theatricals, with numerous young beaux and old beaux, until finally Susan was married to George A. Smith on October 26, 1857, and moved immediately to Salt Lake City. She has a family of five daughters, all born in the Historian's Office. At the opening of the Salt Lake Temple, in 1893, she was appointed an ordinance worker and continued in that work for twenty years when she was honorably released. She is now in good health in her eighty fourth year. This modest recital of trials borne, of labor accomplished, and of sacrifices made, is but the skeleton of a life which has been noble and devoted to the last degree. No complaint ever passed the lips of this faithful wife and mother, no acrid criticism stained the memory of her children. Those who were privileged to labor with her in the temple loved her for her tenderness and consideration, while the discerning saw the elements of leadership within MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 605 her of a quiet masterful power which needed only opportunity to flower and fruit into perfection before the public eye. Wanting opportunity, this gracious noblewoman filled to the last drop the measure of her opportunities with service, sweet and ungrudged. She is the mother of our First Counselor, Clarissa S. Williams. Her daughter, Elizabeth S. Cartwright, is the president of the Seventeenth Ward Relief Society and for many years was in the presidency of the Salt Lake Stake Y. L. M. I. A. Sister Smith's daughters, Margaret S. Parry, mother of the well-known Edwin F. Parry, Jr., the up-to-date Superintendent of the Salt Lake Stake Sunday School, wife of Bishop Edwin F. Parry of the Sixteenth Ward, Priscilla, wife of George S. Taylor of Provo, and Emma Pearl Smith are now deceased. The life of Sister Smith is an unwritten drama. Her labors are fruitful beyond discovery, while her fame rests upon the brows of her daughters and grand-children with ever increasing luster and beauty. MEDICAL COLLEGES OPEN DOORS TO WOMEN. After 106 years as an institution for men only, the College of Physicians and Surgeons, which is now the Medical Department of Columbia University, New York City, has upset old traditions and has decided to admit women in the medical course on an equal standing with men. This action has been brought about by the changes that have taken place since the beginning of the war. It has been found that women are particularly successful in hospital laboratories and are very clever with the work connected with the regular medical course. Several influential women in university circles have also taken an active part in broadening the scope for higher education for women. This departure in Columbia Medical School is made possible by a gift of $50,000 by George W. Breckenridge, of San Antonio, Texas. Harvard University has. also decided to enroll in its Medical Department women who are registered at Radcliff College. The requirements for women will be the same as those for men. Radcliff College will, therefore confer the degree of M. D. on women candidates who have finished the proscribed medical course in Harvard University, and who are recommended by the Harvard Medical School for the degree of doctor of medicine. May we not hope that women physicians and midwives for women and children will become again popular as they should be and as the God of nature intended them to be.