[Vol4 | November 1917 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson IV Home Economics Fourth Week in December SPIRITUAL C]
in  our  schools  and  homes. 
The  spirit  of  Christmas  is  reflected  also  by  many  delightful 
songs  and  poems  of  various  kinds.  Among  the  earliest  of  these 
are  the  quaint  old   carols   still   sung  on   Christmas   morning   in

GUIDE  LESSONS.  655 
merry  England  and  elsewhere.     The  following-  stanzas  are  typi- 
cal of  these : 
As  Joseph  was  a  walking 
He  heard  the  angel  sing, 
"This  shall  be  the  birth-night, 
Of   Christ   our  heavenly  king. 
"His  birth  bed  shall  be  neither 
In  housen  nor  in  hall, 
Nor  in  the  place  of  paradise, 
But  in  the  oxen's  stall. 
From  As  Joseph  Was  a  Walking. 
God  rest  you  merry,  gentlemen, 
Let  nothing  you  dismay, 
For  Jesus  Christ  our  Savior, 
Was  born  upon  this  day, 
To  save  us  all  from  Satan's  power, 
When  we  were  gone  astray. 
From  "God  Rest  You  Merry,  Gentlemen." 
Among  the  other  time-honored  Christmas  songs  are  "The 
Cradle  Hymn,"  by  Martin  Luther,  and  "Silent  Night,  Holy 
Night,"  by  Von  Weber,  which  are  perhaps  best  known.  The 
sweet  simplicity  of  their  soulful  lines  make  them  live  forever 
with  us.    Following  is  the  opening  stanza  of  the  last  named  song: 
Holy   night,    silent   night, 
All  is  calm,  all  is  bright, 
Round  yon   Virgin  mother  and  child, 
Holy  infant,  so  tender  and  mild, 
Sleep   in   heavenly  peace, 
Sleep  in  heavenly  peace. 
Luther's  "Cradle  Hymn"  is  to  be  found  in  the  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Song  Book,  No.  214.  These  and  other  sweet  Christ- 
mas hymns  should  often  be  heard  in  our  homes. 
Other  delightful  Christmas  poems  for  children — and  grown 
folks  too— are  "The  Very  Rest  Kind  of  Christmas  Tree,"  by 
Henry  Van  Dyke;  "Piccola,"  Celia  Thaxter;  "A  Real  Santa 
Clans,"  Frank  D.  Sherman;  "The  Fool's  Christmas,"  Florence 
May  Alt. 
As  a  final  word  to  close  this  pleasant  task  of  outlining  these 
few  lessons  on  "Literature  for  the  Home,"  the  writer  of  these

656  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
lessons  would  express  appreciation  for  the  kindly  spirit  with 
which  the  lessons  have  been  received,  and  offer  the  hope  that  the 
seeds  sown  through  them  may  find  constant  expression  in  better 
books,  choicer  stories  and  songs  in  our  homes,  and  the  sharing 
of  these  riches  constantly  around  the  family  fireside. 
LESSON   OUTLINE. 
1.  Name  the  ten  subjects  that  have  been  taken  up  in  the 
course  on  "Literature  for  the  Home,"  during  the  year. 
2.  What  choice  thought  has  come  from  this  study  to  you? 
What  practical  result  has  come  from  the  course  and  found  ex- 
pression in  your  life  or  home? 
3.  For  this  last  lesson  of  the  series,  we  suggest  that  a  pro- 
gram be  planned  on  "Christmas  in  Song  and  Story."  Some  such 
outline  as  the  following  might  well  be  followed: 
(a)  Christmas  Song,  "Holy  Night,"  or  another. 
(b)  Reading  of  St.  Luke  2:8-14.  The  First  Christmas 
Story,  or  have  selections  from  Ben  Hur — (two  or  three  pages) 
taken  from  the  chapter  of  the  Angel  and  the  Shepherds. 
(c)  Telling  of  the  story  of  The  Other  Wise  Man. 
(d)  Luther's  Cradle  Hymn,  or  another  suggestive  of 
Christmas. 
(e)  Birds'  Christmas  Carol,  readings  from  this  story. 
(f)  Solo,  "The  Children's  Friend,"  or  some  other  story 
appropriate  to  the  occasion. 
(g)  Reading  of  one  or  two  poems  named  in  this  article, 
(h)     Closing  song. 
LESSON  IV. 
Home  Economics. 
SPIRITUAL  CHARACTER  BUILDING  IN  CHILDHOOD. 
Introductory.  Ethics  is  the  relationship  of  man  to  man ;  re- 
ligion is  the  relationship  of  man  to  his  God.  With  this  definition 
we  pass  to  our  discussion  of  this  subject. 
Latter-day  Saint  mothers  realize  the  importance  of  teaching 
their  children  faith  and  of  developing  the  spiritual  character  of 
their  children.  Rut  how  shall  it  be  done,  when  shall  it  be  done, 
and  by  whom  shall  it  be  done?  "The  time  to  begin  training  a 
child,"  as  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  once  remarked,  "is  one  hundred 
years  before  the  child  is  born."  which  implies  the  necessity  for 
righteous  marriage,  and  wise  choice,  that  we  may  give  our  chil- 
dren good  spiritual  beginnings.     Some  mothers  who  are  not  born

GUIDE  LESSONS.  657 
ill  the  Church,  and  others  who  realize  that  teaching  is,  after  all, 
something  more  than  book  learning  or  formal  advice,  and  who 
inquire  eagerly  for  methods  to  impart  faith  and  the  other  spiritual 
virtues  to  their  children.  This  lesson  concerns  itself  in  answer- 
ing these  questions. 
When  to  Begin  Teaching.  As  soon  as  the  baby  is  born  the 
atmosphere  of  piety,  love  and  faith,  or  of  indifference,  and  utter 
disregard  of  heavenly  things  affects  the  childish  mind  and  spirit. 
If  baby  sees  father  and  mother  upon  their  knees,  with  the  older 
children  about  the  hearthstone  repeating  earnest  prayers  before 
retiring  or  upon  awakening,  instinctively  the  baby  climbs  down 
from  its  mother's  lap,  puts  up  its  hands,  and  thus  begins  his  spir- 
itual training.  If  baby  hears  mother  tell  polite  lies,  or  listens  to 
father  using  violent  or  unclean  language,  baby's  bad  ethical  train- 
ing has  begun. 
By  Whom  Shall  the  Training  Be  Given?  First  by  the  right- 
eous father  and  the  wise  mother,  for  these  two  personify  and  rep- 
resent to  the  baby's  mind  all  that  he  may  know  or  grasp  for  some 
years  to  come  concerning  his  heavenly  parents.  Not  only  these, 
but  older  brothers  and  sisters,  grandparents,  all  relatives  and 
friends  of  the  family  take  part  in  this  direct  and  indirect  spiritual 
teaching. 
Habit.  The  strongest  force  in  making  and  unmaking  char- 
acter is  habit.  If  children  are  taught  through  habit  to  pray,  to 
speak  reverently,  to  repent  and  he  forgiven  generously,  to  exercise 
faith  in  the  healing  ordinances  of  the  Priesthood,  to  ask  for  heav- 
enly favors  as  they  do  for  earthly  favors,  they  will  be  assisted  by 
the  most  powerful  factor  in  their  future  spiritual  development. 
Faith  Development.  When  baby  is  sick,  use  the  consecrated 
oil,  pray  over  him,  and  let  him  pray  for  you  when  you  are  .sick. 
Teach  him  through  little  stories,  from  the  Scriptures  and  from 
your  own  life  experiences,  about  our  Father  who  lives  in  heaven 
and  who  sends  his  angels  to  protect  and  guide  us  upon  this  earth. 
Draw  word  pictures  culled  from  scriptural  .sources  of  the  glories 
and  beauties  of  heaven.  How  much  easier  and  better  to  fill  the 
craving  of  the  awakening  mind  for  wonder  stories,  with  true 
pictures  of  the  wonders  of  God  both  in  heaven  and  on  earth,  than 
to  repeat  the  degenerate  myths  and  legends  of  Pagan  nations. 
Foolish  mothers  who  try  to  feed  their  children  with  husks  of 
false  tradition  called  "Folk  Stories,"  are  poisoning  the  spiritual 
development  of  their  children  at  its  fount.  An  occasional  fairy 
story  may  be  told  a  child  who  is  old  enough  to  understand  that 
it  is  simply  a  fairy  story,  but  the  ancient  and  modern  scriptures 
are  too  full  of  true  and  wonderful  stories  to  allow  Latter-day 
Saint  mothers  to  dip  in  the  muddy  stream  of  folk  lore  for  such 
material.

658  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
Repentance.  Quick,  generous  forgiveness  must  be  offered 
the  child  who  repents,  lest  he  become  hardened  and  repent  no 
more.  When  children  are  at  their  play  is  the  most  fruitful  time 
for  spiritual  lessons  to  be  given  and  teachings  to  sink  into  their 
souls.  After  quarreling,  with  your  arms  about  them,  persuade 
them  to  repent  and  to  forgive  each  other.  Side  by  side  with  this 
comes  mercy  and  justice.  Justice  is  taught  by  parents  being  just, 
and  mercy  should  lie  shown  when  little  ones  inadvertently  destroy 
or  make  other  mistakes. 
Inculcating  Reverence.  Bow  yourself  with  reverent  head  at 
prayer  time  and  baby  will  instinctively  imitate  you.  Some  natur- 
ally ultra-independent  spirits,  even  in  babyhood,  refuse  to  respond 
to  this  reverent  spirit.  P.righam  Young  once  picked  up  a  saucy, 
noisy  baby  of  two  years,  in  the  midst  of  his  own  family  prayers, 
spanked  the  ch:ld  soundly  and  sat  her  down  in  her  mother's  chair. 
That  was  the  end  of  confusion  at  prayer  time  in  his  family.  When 
baby  is  taken  to  the  meetinghouse,  take  the  Sacrament  yourself 
with  reverence  without  hurry;  and,  with  the  look  of  your  eye,  as 
you  gaze  seriously  at  the  baby,  inculcate  a  reverent  spirit  in  your 
child.  Tt  may  be  necessary  at  times  to  tell  baby,  before  you  go 
into  the  meeting  or  after  you  come  out,  about  the  house  being 
the  Lord's  house,  and  about  the  angels  who  are  there  and  who  are 
disturbed  when  ch:ldren  play  or  are  noisy  therein ;  sometimes 
sound  chastisement  may  be  needed  by  the  child  if  he  refuses  to 
respond  to  this  sympathetic  teaching. 
The  Love  of  God.  The  love  of  God  can  be  instilled  into  the 
hearts  of  the  smallest  child  if  the  voice  of  the  mother  and  her 
own  full  heart  conveys  to  his  receptive  mind  the  impression  of 
her  own  exquisite  adoration  of  the  Savior  and  our  Father  in 
heaven.  Too  much  of  our  religious  explanation  is  made  to  chil- 
dren, with  indifferent  voices  and  flippant  tones.  The  eye  and  the 
Up  are  better  teachers  many  times  than  the  word  or  even  the 
thought.  Love  God  yourself,  mother,  cultivate  worship  and  rev- 
erence, through  prayer  and  striving,  and  through  the  intimate 
daily  contact  with  his  spirit,  and  it  will  be  much  eas:er  for  your 
children  to  receive  that  heavenly  influence  into  their  own  lives. 
Teach  the  baby  to  love  his  father  by  refraining  from  one  word 
of  criticism  of  that  father  in  the  presence  of  the  baby,  at  least.  Tt 
is  as  necessary  for  a  child  to  have  a  love  for  his  father  instilled 
a-  it  is  for  him  to  imbibe  the  love  of  God  within  his  soul.  If  he 
reveres  and  loves  his  earthly  father,  it  will  be  easy  to  reverence 
and  worship  God.  All  of  the  attributes  of  our  Father  can  be 
dwelt  upon  as  occasion  may  arise  for  that  lesson  to  be  taught. 
Reliance  and  Trust  in  God.  Older  children  should  acquire  a 
reliance  and  trust  in  our  heavenly  Father  through  answer  to 
prayer,  and.  as  always,  through  the  consciously  exerted  influence