[Vol4 | November 1917 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The Historical Office of the First Presidency]

The Historical Office of the First Presidency And the New Relief Society Department Headquarters. We present to our readers some pictures of the interior of the famous old office known as the President's Office, the east rooms of which are now occupied by our Wedding and Burial Clothes Department, presided over by Counselor Julina I. Smith. It is both unique and gratifying that this sacred department of work associated with the General Board of the Relief Society should he housed in the rooms hallowed and sanctified by the presence and work of every president of this Church since the days of the Prophet Joseph. In these rooms gathered President Brigham Young, surrounded as he was by the stalwarts of the Church  giants most of them in character and intellect. These walls echoed to the genial voice of Willard Richards, the prophecies of Heber C. Kimball, the wise counsels of John Taylor, the simple testimonies of Wilford Woodruff, THE HISTORIC OF-D OFFICE OF THE FIRST PRESIDENCY. HISTORICAL OFFICE OF FIRST PRESIDENCY. 60/ brief words of wisdom uttered by George A. Smith, with the scintillating brilliancy of Orson Pratt and his brother Parley P. Pratt, the statesmanlike counsels of Erastus Snow, the fiery eloquence of Jedediah M. Grant, and the brave utterances of Daniel H. Wells. Here also presided that upright scholar and prophet, Lorenzo Snow, and his no less remarkable counselors, the erudite and polished statesman, George 0. Cannon, with the kingly and powerful Joseph F. Smith who succeeded President Snow in the leadership of the Church. All these were great and special witnesses of the Lord. Among the later ones are the masterful Francis M. Lyman, genial John Henry Smith, the alert, businesslike John R. Winder, the scholarly and wise Anthon H. Lund, who INTERIOR OF THE FRONT OFFICE NOW USED BY THE RELIEF SOCIETY. discussed and decided the fate of policies connected with the Church of Christ in these latter days. A great empire was built in spirit beneath this sacred roof, before it took subsequent form throughout the length and breadth of Zion seated upon the western hills. Here, too, lived and labored the faithful secretaries and clerks whose modest fame will live in the hearts of the Latter day Saints as men who were true to their trust, instant in service and tireless in integrity. Who will ever forget these men in their time and place? George Reynolds, himself later in the First Council of Seventy: James Jack, faithful accountant; David McKenzie, artist and actor as well as clerk and scribe; Horace 
 K. Whitney, gifted, artistic and diligent; A. Milton Musser, Assistant Church Historian, who established, under Brigham Young, Utah's telegraphic system; William B. Dougall, telegrapher and office wit; independent George Gibbs; L. John Nuttall, clerical and faithful. Here, too, Rudger Clawson began his official career as private clerk, and made history in the regulation and modernization of Church records. William C. Spence, almost as historic as the railroad itself. These and many more pass in review before the mind's eye of one who enters these portals and pauses to recall the days of old. Here hangs a quaint old picture of some of our early leaders which we reproduce. Temple Clothing Department.  Here now are established Sister Julina L. Smith and her committee and assistants in these historic rooms. She has preserved, with a fine sense of fitness, the quaint pioneer atmosphere which has always marked this modest place; and, far better, she has gathered about her work the same sacred atmosphere which has always lingered there like a benediction.' The hush of memory, no less than the quiet repose of the work done here, is felt at once. The clothing which is prepared is exquisite beyond description. Simple, as befits sacred things, modest yet lovely in form and substance. The clothes prepared here are models for all Israel. The history of the movement is briefly given. In October, 1911, Sister Julina L. Smith first suggested to the Board the necessity for such a department. On January 4, 1912, she was appointed chairman and chose for her committee Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Sarah McLelland and Edna May Davis. Sister Farnsworth resigned on February 15, of the same year. In March following, Sister Julina chose Janette A. Hyde to fill the vacancy on her committee, and Sister Hyde was chosen a missionary for the General Board. At that same time a small sum of money was appropriated by the Board for Sister Smith to purchase material and begin her work. A number of members of the Board contributed clothing to assist in this laudable undertaking. By October, Sister Julina gave a report of her work, and she returned the small appropriation to the Board from the receipts of her venture. On November 12, 1912, the following letter was sent out from the First Presidency to all the stake presidents: "Dear Brother: We desire to inform you that the General Board of the Relief Society has been instructed by us to take charge of the business of supplying temple clothing to all members of the Church coming to the temple from time to time in need of it, also for burial purposes; and that the Society has appointed a responsible committee to attend to this business who is prepared to furnish suits or parts of suits at its headquarters in the Bishop's Building. 49 North Main Street, this city. HISTORICAL OFFICE OF FIRST PRESIDENCY. 609 "The committee referred to will take this matter up with the Stake President of the Relief Societies of your Stake, and impart to her all the information  necessary in regard to this matter. INTERIOR OF INNER ROOM USED FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY. "And we would thank you also to inform your Bishops of it, and at the same time request them to instruct all those coming to the temple from their respective wards to supply themselves with temple clothing before leaving home, if they can do so con-in leniently, otherwise to call at the office of the Relief Society the Bishop's Building where it may be purchased or rented. "On account of the sacredness of the character of our temple clothing we have felt for some time past that a safeguard ought to be thrown around it with a view to preventing it from being loosely handled or unnecessarily exposed, and it has occurred to us that the duty of handling the clothing may very properly be imposed upon and entrusted to our Relief Society, under the supervision of the proper authority. "We are, with kindest regards, "Your Brethren, (Signed) "Joseph F.H. Smith, "Anthon Lund, "Charles W. Penrose/' 
 "P. S. Parties wishing to reach the committee by telephone may do so by calling up Wasatch 207, or Wasatch 3455. "In order to obtain temple clothing it will be necessary to present a letter of recommendation from the Bishop." The work has grown steadily and surely. Sister Smith has accommodated the growing enterprise, first in a portion of one of her rooms, and then she gave two rooms in her home for the service, but so important and extensive was her enterprise that it was impossible longer to house it in the limits of her home. Consequently, when the First Presidency vacated the old offices to occupy the new Church Building, Sister Smith applied for the cast half of the offices and her request was complied with. It is impossible to estimate the value of this splendid work or to properly forecast its future. Instead of having these sacred and beautiful bridal and burial clothes prepared by outside sextons or by unsympathetic commercial agencies, we have now an opportunity of securing the best and most beautiful clothing prepared after models suited sacredly to their uses. Sister Smith and her daughters have served the people night and day, in season and cut of season. Xo trouble is too great, no place is too distant for her to reach and serve. The General Board feel a profound debt of gratitude and affection to this committee for the wonderful work accomplished; united with this is a feeling of grateful appreciation to the First Presidency and Presiding Bishopric for the constant encouragement and support which this committee have received in their work. A beautiful reception and dinner was tendered the General Board by this committee at the Bee Hive House, with President Joseph F. Smith as host and Sister Julina L. Smith and her counselors as hostesses on Friday, September 21. An inspiring and happy time was enjoyed by all who were privileged to be present, and many congratulations and expressions of delight and pleasure were heard concerning the charming new quarters as well as the prosperous financial condition shown by this department. The future may hold even greater things for this work. It may be that in some future day, not too far distant, branches of this work will be established in the Relief Societies of every stake in the Church. Be that as it may, the work in its present state is a blessing to all concerned, and we feel that we have cause for congratulations to all who have in any way brought this desirable condition to pass.