[Vol34 | June 1947 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Plan for Christmas in Smith]

ENTERTAINING AT A CABIN IN THE CANYON 411
Plan for Christmas in June Elizabeth Williamson With Illustrations by the Author PERHAPS last Christmas you Pp received a gift made especially for you. You remembered it long after you had forgotten most of your other gifts. You may be wondering if the gifts which you dashed out to buy at the last minute were really appreciated by the recipients. Last minute thoughts and last minute gifts are not always conducive to the most pleasurable Christmas spirit. This year you can begin to plan your Christmas gifts in June. This will give you time to make special remembrances that will appeal to the individual personalities on your Christmas list. Here are some ideas: 1. For the Kitchen Look in antique and secondhand stores. Pick up old kettles, trays, flatirons. It is easy to decorate them yourself. At the public library you will find books and magazines telling you exactly how to go about making interesting designs. Page 412
Decorate cookie boxes, cans, and canisters.
Cover matchboxes.
Make gay potholders.
Make chintz cushions for the kitchen rocker. 2. Block Printing This is a simple process. Again, consult the library for help.
Block print guest towels, tea towels, napkins.
Your friends will be delighted with personalized gifts. 3. Decoupage Cut out scraps of pretty wallpaper or old flower prints.
Paste on wastepaper baskets, boxes, or trays.
When dry, apply a smooth coat of shellac.
These make stunning and practical gifts. 4. Hand-sewn Gifts If you sew, there are innumerable possibilities.
Here are a few suggestions: Sachets (with your friend's favorite scent); lingerie and stocking cases made of quilted satin and embroidered with PLAN FOR CHRISTMAS IN JUNE initials; frilly aprons for special occasions; guest towels and napkins with appliqued initials in contrasting colors. 5. For Garden Enthusiasts Make a scrapbook containing flower arrangements clipped from magazines, for your gardening friends. Buy a scrapbook with board covers, letter "My Garden" on the front, or applique flowers of felt or wood.
Make garden aprons from denim or ticking with three huge pockets.
Make waterproof kneeling cushions for planting and digging. 6. For Barbecue Enthusiasts Salad sets.
Paint wooden bowls with a gay design.
Carve initials on the handles 413 of salad servers. Caps.
Make chefs' aprons and Collect barbecue recipes. 7.
Jams and Jellies Homemade jams and jellies with attractive labels and bright wrappings are always welcome, also herb bouquets and herb vinegars. If you live on a farm, there are many gifts your city friends will relish, such as: fresh sausage, fruits, nuts, homemade candies, cookies, and fruit cakes. 8. Plants For Christmas giving, start slips of plants in the summer and bulbs in the fall.
African violets are easy to grow.
Each leaf started in sand will make a new plant.
Geranium slips, begonia slips, and many other plants can be started early.
Miniature plants (philodendron, cacti, and ivy) will be most satisfying to know that You will be surprised what fun it that you have kept them in mind is to discover the appropriate gift. It throughout the year.