[Vol34 | June 1947 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Transition Stewart]

Would the choir and organ sound as well as they did over the radio? And how did they go at it, anyway?  TRANSITION Margery S. Stewart When I was in my springtime, I did not deign to say "Good morrow," save to a chosen few On the king's highway. But now I am in my winter, I walk abroad to see If, mayhap, I find one or two Who nod and speak to me. Utah Pioneer Women Poets Rose Thomas Graham "Poetry is the human emotion seeking a way through the wilderness and struggle." RAB would have been the lives of our Utah pioneers were it not for their singers and poets. Theirs, indeed, was wilderness and struggle in sagebrush lands. But God put poetry into the hearts of these brave people, and those who expressed this poetry gave hope to the sorrowful and discouraged and received joy themselves.
Talents were not hidden under a bushel.
Though poverty and hard work were the heritage of the desert, though books were few and opportunities for education limited, particularly in the outlying settlements, many women expressed themselves in poetry which reflected the courage and vitality of pioneer life, as well as the lasting beauty and culture in the hearts of the women.
Though the principal theme of pioneer poetry was the establishment and growth of the Church and the work of women as mothers and homemakers, still, many of the authors were deeply interested in national and world affairs, in history and government, in geography and travel, and in the various religious movements beyond the borders of Utah.
Some of the most significant poetry portrayed the grandeur of the mountains and the beauty of the arid valleys, the color of wild flowers on the hills, and the blue depths of the mountain lakes, the peace and comfort which the "promised land" gave to the latter-day pilgrims who had spent so many years seeking a safe retreat in which to build their homes and establish the stakes of Zion. Eliza R. Snow Foremost among Latter-day Saint poets, stands Eliza R. Snow, the "sweet singer of Israel," sister of Lorenzo Snow, fifth president of the Church. She received an excellent education and was associated in young girlhood with Alexander Campbell and other well-known religious leaders.
Thus she became interested in the philosophy of Mormonism and became a member of the Church.
Having cast her lot with the saints, she followed their migrations from Ohio to Missouri and into Illinois. In every phase of pioneer history she was a leader among women, and became the secretary in the first Relief Society organization. Eliza R.
Snow has truly been called the poet laureate of Mormondom, for she celebrated in vibrant verse the history of the Church. For subject material she used the arrival of the saints in their various temporary homes and their forced departures to new locations. She wrote of events in the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith and portrayed his teachings in her poems. She told of the beauties of Nauvoo and the sadness of the exodus.
This cultured woman, frail of stature, drove an ox team part of the Page 387 way across the plains. She shared in all the hardships and ministered tirelessly to those who were ill or discouraged, those who had suffered the loss of loved ones, and those who seemed to regret leaving their comfortable homes for the precarious life of the wilderness. Her tasks in the valleys of the mountains embraced a multitude of very different skills. She became proficient in spinning, weaving, sewing, and other household tasks. She was an ordinance worker in the temples; she cared for the sick, comforted those who mourned, and assisted all who came to her for counsel and advice.
While traveling in Europe with her brother Lorenzo and _ other Church officials, Eliza R.
Snow was greatly impressed by the beauty of the landscape and by the old buildings and the history connected with them. Her description of Florence is typical of her impressions during this visit: Beneath high, villa-dotted hills, That in succession rise Like rich, gemmed parapets around, The lovely Florence lies. It was, however, her visit to the Holy Land that touched Eliza R.
Snow the most deeply, and she was forever grateful for what seemed to her a sacred privilege: I go to place my feet upon the land Where once the Prince of Peace, the Son of God Was born where once he lived and walked and preached.... "Sister Eliza," as she was affectionately called, became the first General President of Relief Society in Utah, and in this capacity she
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1947 ELIZA R. SNOW traveled extensively and delivered hundreds of inspirational addresses which, in themselves, were literary masterpieces. 'The development of the ideals and the great accomplishments of Relief Society became marvelous as shaped by the women of pioneer times, and the intelligent mind and brilliant talents of Eliza R.
Snow contributed much to this development. In writing of the Relief Society, Sister Snow explained its mission: It is an institution formed to bless The poor, the widow, and the fatherless; To clothe the naked, and the hungry feed, And in the holy paths of virtue lead. "O My Father," the famous song lyric written by Eliza R. Snow, is regarded as a masterpiece and its lines are known and loved all over the world, and revered by many people who are not members of the Church.
UTAH PIONEER WOMEN POETS
Here the simplicity of wording, the power of inspiration, and the theme of a great message are combined to make this song "the living letter of music." Charles Dana Gibson, Editor of the New York Sun, in 1897 listed this poem as first in his list of the ten best poems in the English language. The poet of the Mormon migrations, the sweet singer of the valleys, became known far beyond the boundaries of Utah. It is in honor of this pioneer poet that the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest is conducted by the General Board of Relief Society, and the women of today who enter their poems in this contest are following in the pathway of one who sang her way to a place of usefulness and beauty forever in the hearts of Latter-day Saint women. There's a depth in the soul, that's beyond the reach Of all earthly sound of all human speech, A fiber too sacred and pure to chime With the cold, dull music of Earth and Time.... Hannah Tapfield King Hannah T. King, "a leader from England," became a leader among the women of Utah, where she taught school for a number of years, and also contributed prose articles and poems to the Woman's Exponent. Some of her poems were written as advice to young girls, and two books, popular with the English aristocracy, came from her pen: The Toilet, dedicated to "her girls" and The Eras, dedicated to "her boys." Exemplifying her work, is this poem: 389
Courtesy, Kate B. Carter HANNAH T. KING TO A YOUNG LADY FRIEND Walk slowly, walk softly, walk calmly along, Seeking wisdom to guide and direct; That hereafter, when mingling in life's busy throng, It will plainly be seen to what class you belong, And may that be God's own elect. Notable among the writings of Hannah King, is an epic poem dedicated to President John Taylor. Following the true epic panorama, the poem gives a view of Church history, detailing events from the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith to the arrival: of Brigham Young's company at the place which was to become Great Salt Lake City. This poem portrays much exaltation of spirit and deals vividly with the stirring events of pioneer history. Going beyond the presentation of the 390 events themselves, the poet probes the hearts of the people to discover their motives and their purposes, their patriotic and religious sentiments. Hannah King's poem "Let There Be Light," which was published in 1884 in the Woman's Exponent, reveals the poet's attitude toward faith in God and the relationship of faith to the world of nature: Light.... What a world of wealth is light! In all its grandeur, all its might. Light is indeed direct from heaven, The grandest boon to mortals given; And wheresoever it may shine It tells of life and light divine. This genial, life-engendering light Brings untold beauties into sight; No blade of grass could raise its head, No floweret leave its leafy bed, Did not this light upon it shine, The very breath of light divine.. Courtesy, The Salt Lake Tribune RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1947
Sarah E. Carmichael (Williamson) Sarah E. Carmichael, born in Long Island in 1838, was called the "Golden Singer of the Wasatch" and the "Patriot Poet." One writer speaks of her as "'a spirit throbbing with feeling and ideas." At the early age of seventeen she had many ambitious poems published in newspapers and magazines. But her mind was too big; it failed her when she was but thirty. Had she, in later life, retained the brilliance of her youth, she might have been listed among the great poets of the nation. She wrote with acute perception, with deep significance. Her work was marked by delicacy and strength. Her poem "Moonrise on the Wasatch" shows delicacy and a tender beauty: The wind seemed far, yet darkness was not deep.....
ALLL SARAH CARMICHAEL UTAH PIONEER WOMEN POETS
The languid air crept to the rose's lips and perished there.... One of her poems, combining strength and delicacy, is "The Mines," which was greatly admired by William Cullen Bryant. He changed the title to "The Origin of Gold" and included the poem in his great collection A Library of Poetry and Song. Part of this famous poem is quoted below: There's a light that burns with a quenchless glow, In the wide deep caverns of earth below; Like the fire that lives on the Parsee's shrine Is the amber torch of the lighted mine. Burning forever, steadily bright; Burning forever, so still and deep, Flickering never, a changeless light; Proud and passionless, still and fair; Burning forever, without a glare; A quenchless flame in a dreamless sleep... The matchless ode "Abraham Lincoln's Funeral" is considered Sarah Carmichael's masterpiece. Here great strength and vigor mingle with a deep compassion. Many critics have placed this great ode as equal, if not superior, to Walt Whitman's "O Captain, My Captain." Toll! Toll! All rivers seaward wend. Toll! Toll! Weep for the Nation's friend.... Toll! Toll! Bound is the reaper's sheaf  Toll! Toll! All mortal life is brief Toll Toll Weep for the Nation's Chief! Never again no more  Comes back to earth the life that goes Hence to the Eden shore! Y Let him rest! It is not often That his soul has known repose; Let him rest! they rest but seldom Whose successes challenge foes. He was weary-worn with watching; His life-crown of power hath pressed 391
Courtesy, Kate B. Carter
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON
Oft on temples sadly aching  He was weary, let him rest. Toll, bells at the Capital! Bells of the land, toll! Sob out your grief with brazen lungs  Toll! Toll! Toll! Augusta Joyce Crocheron Augusta Joyce Crocheron, born in Boston, was taken by her parents, at the age of two, to live in San Francisco. Years later, she came with her family to Utah and served as secretary in both the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. Her mother was called "The Mormon Nightingale." Of Augusta, herself, Emmeline B. Wells once wrote: "She seemed to me to always have the wrong setting; so refined, so gentle, so desirous of everything beautiful, and yet denied them all." She is author of three books, Wild Flowers of Deseret, The Children's Book, and Representative Women of Deseret. At the time she died, in 1915, she was also working on a story 392 of The Book of Mormon in verse. Following are excerpts from two of her longer poems: LUCY SMITH The Prophet's mother! On her breast The sacred infant slept. From infancy to youth, her love Its faithful watch care kept; And from his life a gentle child's  Whose earliest words she taught, Her ear and heart with joy received The wondrous truths he brought.
SALT LAKE CITY
All the valley lay in shadows Cast by clouds that hid the sun; Ripened grain fields, em'rald meadows, Shining lines where waters run..... Emmeline B. Wells - "Aunt Em," a dear little lady who loved pale blue in a neckpiece or as a trimming and who, on April 29th, 1921, was laid tenderly away in a blue-gray casket, is well remembered by many still living. Emmeline B.
Wells was born Emmeline Woodward, in Petersham, Massachusetts, February 29th, 1828, of English descent. At an early age she had a strong leaning toward literature and did some writing.
This probably led to her later profession. In 1842 the fourteen-year-old girl was baptized, and, in 1844, her mother sent her to Nauvoo, fearing the influence of her many friends who were not in sympathy with the Latter-day Saint religion. She, however, remained staunch in her belief. At Winter Quarters she followed the teaching profession until her journey to the "Valley" in 1848 where, almost from the time of her arrival, she was engaged in public labors for the benefit of women. Two years after her husband, Bishop Newell K. Whitney, died, she married Daniel H. Wells, and
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1947 EMMELINE B. WELLS spent the rest of her life in security with her family. Annie Wells Cannon, one of her three daughters, was a writer and well-known figure in the Church. The Woman's Exponent, established in 1872, was edited by Lula Greene Richards until 1877, when Brigham Young appointed Emmeline B.
Wells as the second editor. One year before this time, President Young had commissioned Mrs.
Wells to head the grain-storing movement among women, which duty she faithfully performed. In October 1910, President Joseph F.
Smith appointed Emmeline as General President of the Relief Society, a position which she held until her release, only three weeks before her death, April 25th, 1921. At a Professional and Business Women's Convention held in Mackinac Island, Michigan, in 1929, Em- UTAH PIONEER WOMEN POETS meline B.
Wells was voted the outstanding woman of Utah the one who had given the greatest service to her State. On this occasion she was impersonated by Elizabeth Fitzgerald, a little, ladylike teacher of West High School, who wore Mrs. Wells' paisley shawl, and resembled her in face and figure. On the one-hundredth anniversary of Emmeline's birth (February 29th, 1928), a marble statue of her, the work of Cyrus E., Dallin, was un.
Veiled at the Utah State Capitol. It was the gift of the State in remembrance of. The women of the State, and the first bust in Utah's Hall of Fame. At that time the bust was draped with the same paisley shawl worn by Miss Fitzgerald, Emmeline B.
Wells wrote much prose and poetry, in the Exponent and elsewhere. Her second volume of poems was published when she was eighty-seven years of age. The song "Our Mountain Home So Dear" is one of her lyrics. The following excerpts give an idea of her trials, and her later joy in the security of her home and family: SOMEWHERE I see adown the Shadows of long years The faint dim outlines of a dreamy land... The keenest hopes and joys my life has known, And silent griefs which I have borne alone.
THE DEAR OLD GARDEN
My dear old garden! Still I call it mine; and mine it is, for in its grateful shade.... My children and my children's children A FRAGMENT I only place my hand in thine, and all my Pulses thrill to thee  An indefinable, transporting joy which lifts my soul in ecstasy. 393
Emily Hill Woodmansee Emily Hill Woodraansee, born in England, came to Utah at the age of twenty with the handcart company of 1856. She walked the entire distance of one thousand miles, pulling a handcart all the way. Writing of hardships endured, she said: "T was the youngest of eleven living children, fully enjoying privileges accorded the youngest..... Truly, I never knew what trouble was Til I became a Mormon..... Her well-known hymn "Providence Is Over All" speaks of her faith and trust: When dark and drear the skies appear, And doubt and dread would thee enthrall, Look up, nor fear, the day is near, And Providence js over all, Courtesy, Kate B. Carter EMILY H. WOODMANSEF 394
Lines from her poem "Misunderstood" reveal her sensitive mind: How can a stranger in their grief take part, Whose greatest trouble can be least explained? How can a stranger soothe the aching heart, Whose sorrow must be silently sustained? Sarah E. Russell and Isabel Russell Johnson These sisters, writing under the names of "Hope" and "Millicent," respectively, were born in Canada, where the gospel was brought to their parents by Parley P. Pratt. Their family, with others, suffered mob violence and many trials. Isabel tells of a harrowing experience: One morning the mob came, ordering father to bring out the whole family, saying they would kill them all, starting with the children. Without a word, Father brought out an old shawl, spreading it on the ground, then, one child at a time, and last, taking baby Sarah from her mother's arms, put her down. Facing the mob, he raised his right hand to heaven and said, ISABEL RUSSELL JOHNSON 'Millicent' ) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1947 PS SARAH E. RUSSELL ( "Hope" ) "There they are. Shoot, if God will let you!" Awed and subdued, the mob slunk away. These sisters were prominent in Church organizations in Salt Lake City; later, both lived in Mexico. Poems of each, quoted in part, present their talents: THREE EVENING SHADOWS By Millicent Creeping down, creeping down, Shadows with a golden crown.... Tis thus the shades of evening fall In youth, when trustfulness o'er all A tender beauty throws... Falling down, falling down, Shadows with a sable crown. Thus when the veil is rent apart And troubles gather round the heart... Falling down, gently down, Shadows with a snowy crown... Thus when the ills of life are past, And that far shore is won at last, Where shadows never fall...
UTAH PIONEER WOMEN POETS PATCHWORK
By Hope Tis not genteel, they tell me now, To make a patchwork quilt; "Tis sign of poverty they vow, And poverty is guilt In worldly eyes well let it be; But you and I should clearer see. I think it is a branch of art That forms a good, important part In home economy and joy, And pleasant hours without alloy May thus be spent in social chat, While fingers fly this way and that, Forming designs of light and shade Until a perfect Piece is made.... Hannah Cornaby Hannah Cornaby wrote: If I am given one talent, I am account.
Able to the Giver for the proper use of same.... I write the story of my life, that my poems may be better understood.
Born in England, the eldest of the family, I was early taught to love the Being who made this earth so beautiful..... Her story reveals a colorful and romantic life.
Both she and her husband, through their wonderful faith, experienced many miraculous heal. Ings. A poem of nineteen pages, "Crossing the Atlantic," describes nine months of travel and hardship. She walked more than one thousand miles from Council Bluffs to Utah, but she said, "All was repaid at sight of the city of the saints," Following are lines from some of her poems: CROSSING THE ATLANTIC A Reminiscence In January, fifty-three, we left our English home, Determined for the gospel's sake to Zion's land to come.....
395 OUR NATIVE FLOWERS The favored flowers of other lands Have claimed the poet's powers; But let our harp be tuned in praise Of Utah's native flowers. The hymn, "Who's on the Lord's Side, Who?" is from Hannah Cormaby's pen. Lucinda Lee Dalton This poet, writing under the name of Lu Dalton, was born in Alabama, in 1847. She came to Utah in 1849. She began teaching at the age of fifteen, and taught school for thirty-five years in Ogden and in several cities in Southern Utah. Her earlier y ats were spent in San Bernardino, California, where her father, John P. Lee, with others, had been called by Brigham Young to settle. She was a great lover of nature, and author of many poems appearing in the Woman's Exponent. Follow. Ing are lines from her poem "Indian Summer:" Fair Indian Summer, mellow, calm and sweet, Another of thy golden days is done: In mystic silence glide thy viewless feet While sinks again to rest thy gorgeous sun. The herd's faint lowing from the meadow dells Floats like an echo on the dreamy air. The mellow tinkle of their distant bells Suggests faint music from cathedrals fair. Lula Greene Richards This poet, appearing under the name of "Lulu," wrote of herself: "I was born at twelve o'clock noon, April 8, 1849, a bright, smiling Easter Sunday, at Kanesville, Council Bluffs, Iowa." She crossed the plains when she was between three and four years of age, but she remembered the trials endured.
Twice she nearly lost her 396 life once when the oxen plunged 'Over an embankment, and again when she was knocked off a boat. At this time her dress caught on a nail and a man was able to reach down and rescue her. She wrote: "At six, I was a real Latter-day Saint."
Reaching womanhood, she became a teacher in Sunday School, a secretary in Relief Society, and served in other Church capacities. Her literary talents were discernible at an early age. She was only twenty-three years old when she was called to be editor of the new publication for the women of the Church, The Woman's Exponent. President Young gave Miss Greene this important work as a mission and blessed her in it. Her brilliant and well-trained mind was a significant influence in shaping the policy of this publication, and her personality and her ideals are still reflected in our Church publications, In 1873, soon after she had assumed her editorial responsibilities, Lula Greene became the wife of Levi Willard Richards, and, in 1877, because of increased family duties, she resigned as editor of the Exponent. Her writing days, however, were not over and she continued to contribute to all the Church magazines and to local newspapers and periodicals as well. She became the mother of seven gifted children, among them, the artist Lee Greene Richards.
This cultured and gifted woman, who remembered the crossing of the plains, died in September 1944, at the age of ninety-five, the last of the great pioneer women poets. Her book Branches That Run Over the Wall contains many beautiful
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1947 LULA GREENE RICHARDS nature lyrics, as well as more pretentious poems. "The Sego Lily," quoted, in part, below, is one of her best-known compositions: What other flower so well could represent thee, Dear Utah, in high courts where kings may tread, As the white sego, which once kindly lent thee For thy new guests, new hopes, when hope had fled!
There were other women poets in pioneer days, but these are names that appeared most often, and these selections present but few of the words they wrote.
Only when a book is compiled on the subject, can early songs and poems be adequately quoted and an insight be gained into the valor and sensitivity that gave expression to "human emotion" in pioneer days.