[Vol34 | June 1947 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: A Place in the Country Jones]

A Place in the Country THE CURTAINS Ruby Scranton Jones [This is the second in a series of five short-short stories  Ed.] the window looking out over the two and a half acres that were theirs, or would be in the course of ten years or so. It was mid-July, and the scrawny apples on the nearest tree were turning red. A few daisies and pansies bloomed in the neglected garden. "Our place in the country," Ellen mused, leaning her dark head against her husband's shoulder. "We have waited nine years for it, but it's worth it.
Betty looks better already, and you've coughed very little since we left Chicago." "I was beginning to think you'd have to give up living on a farm when you found that ad in the paper," John replied, putting his arm around her.
Then they turned and looked again at the room they had just finished arranging. 'The woodwork and floor were spotless, but the paper was faded and cracked.
There was a worn blue rug, much too small, two rocking chairs, a small table with a vase of daisies, and a bright picture of dancing nymphs over the grate. "Nice," Ellen said. "Sometime we'll have a davenport over against that wall and a bookcase in that corner." "For our six books," John laughed.
Ellen paid no attention. "But we can have curtains now. I've saved fifteen dollars." She picked up her purse from the table and looked to Jie and Ellen Martin stood at make sure, and then continued, "Sheer curtains that won't shut out the sunshine ruffled ones don't you think, draped back?" "Yes, ruffles, by all means."
John drew Ellen to him and kissed her. "I've known we'd have ruffled curtains for nine, long years."
Ellen pulled away, a little offended.
Then she laughed, too. "Let's go to town now and get the material. I could have them up for Sunday  the front ones, anyway.
Some of the neighbors might come to call, you know." She picked up her purse.
Again and started for the bedroom. "You call the children while I get ready." As the ancient Ford turned onto the highway, Ellen looked back. "It looks much better than it did a week ago. You've done wonders, John. It'll really look elegant when the curtains are up." The town was busy as country towns are on Saturday afternoons.
There were so many cars that John parked some distance from the general store and they walked slowly along, enjoying the sights so unusual to their eyes accustomed to the streets of a big city. The children, a little ahead, had stopped in front of a grain store. "Hurry," Johnny shouted, jumping up and down in excitement. "Come, see the puppies."
There was a window full of them, all kinds and colors, rolling over each Page 397 398 other. "I choose that one," the boy exclaimed, pointing to a tan and white furry ball. "He's beautiful." It had Jong been a game with the children to make choices of things they saw in store windows clothes, shoes, books, toys. Of course, they never expected to have them, but it was fun anyway. "Which do you choose?"
Johnny asked his sister. "J like the same one. He's so soft looking and, see, he doesn't bite to hurt at all. He's just playing." "We must hurry," their father urged. "The store won't be open much longer." He took Johnny's hand and they went on. An obliging clerk got down bolt after bolt of curtain material before Ellen saw what she wanted. It was snowy white with tiny dots. "How -much?" she asked. "Fifty-nine cents," the girl answered, and started to unroll it. "Twice fifty-nine one eighteen. Six windows.
Twelve times one eighteen," Ellen figured scarcely above a whisper, frowning a little in her concentration. "Yes, that will be just right." "Where's Johnny?"
Betty asked in a loud, anxious voice. "Why, he was right here," John replied, looking around the store. "We must find him."
Ellen hastily turned from the counter and they hurried out. THEY looked up and down the street where cars were traveling in both directions and some boys were galloping their horses. Ellen's face went white.
John asked all who passed if they had seen a small boy 'na blue suit. His voice was calm, but he started to cough.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1947 "The puppies," Betty cried suddenly and ran down the street.
John and Ellen followed. And there he was, his little face pressed against the glass.: "Don't scold him," Ellen whispered. "He likes me," Johnny's voice was shrill.
Just then the puppy came over and licked the glass in front of the boy's face with a bright pink tongue. "Oh, I wish I could touch him just once." His voice was low now as though he did not want to startle the puppy. "Come," his father spoke gruffly, taking his hand. "Come, or mother won't get her curtains." "Don't want curtains.
Want to watch puppies."
Johnny began to cry and pulled away. Elle: marched into the store. "How much are they?" she asked of the man who came to meet her. "Well, different prices.
Which one do you mean?" "The tan and white one." "The Scotch collie? He's fifteen - dollars." "So much!"
Ellen exclaimed. "That black one is ten. The little spotted fox terrier is only three. But the collie is the best.
What do you want a dog for?" "Well, for the children and  for a watch dog." "The collie would be fine then. All collies have good dispositions and they grow big enough to be good watch dogs."
Ellen turned to leave and saw her son's face through the glass. It was as full of happiness now as the pictured face of an angel she had seen once in an art gallery. She opened her purse. "Here," she said, "I'll take him." A PLACE IN THE COUNTRY The man reached into the window and lifted out the puppy as three pairs of eyes gazed in surprise.
Ellen went out of the store and put the puppy in Johnny's arms. "Is he ours?" he asked when he was able to speak at all. "Yes," she answered. "Now we'll go home. Let Betty carry him to the car. You have to be very careful of puppies, you know." The children started on, talking happily. "But your curtains," John said. "You wanted them so badly." "Did I?"
Ellen smiled at him. 399
She was still a little pale. "It's a bad habit I have wanting things." "Well, it's all that's got us this far. But you shouldn't have done it." John took her arm as she stumbled on the uneven pavement. When she next spoke her tone was a little belligerent. "Anyway, who ever heard of a place in the country without a dog?" "When the neighbors come to call they will probably think whoever heard of a house without curtains," John retorted. By the time they caught up with the children, they were both laughing.