[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 751 | Poem | Count Your Blessings — Not Troubles | Ursula King Bell]
Count Your Blessings - Not Troubles Ursula King Bell Count your blessings — not your troubles, Talk about the good things of life to others, Not your problems, for all have enough to endure. Endeavor to keep your mind and hands busy, With useful work and pleasant thoughts. 751 Check Your Sewing Equipment Shirley Thulin AAxx set for your important sewing projects? Now is a good time to check your sewing equipment. There are so many new items on the market, it would be well to check with your department and chain stores to look over the time and work savers they have to offer. Sewing aids, which today are a far cry from the bare essentials that filled great-grandmother's sewing basket, range from a tailor-tacking device that marks both sides of a fabric simultaneously to a new kind of pin that has no head. Buttons, which have achieved new heights of decorative beauty, while maintaining their age-old function, should be chosen wisely. Select buttons before cutting the buttonhole. Sew a shankless button (one which has holes through it) across a pin that has been held in place on top of the button between the holes. 'This makes a longer, more flexible shank of thread and provides a "give" so the buttons will not pop off so easily. Buy a good supply of simple buttons to use in replacement and mending jobs, or, to be more thrifty, save for future use, all trimming and utility buttons from worn-out clothing.

se, all trimming and utility buttons from worn-out clothing. These reserve buttons may be classified by threading together buttons of like size. Chalk is a useful addition to any sewing room. Now used in automatic skirt markers, the chalk squirts in a fine stream for accurate marking in response to pressure on a rubber bulb. Tailor's chalk is made of clay and is now available in red, blue, black, white, and yellow. A well-equipped sewing basket always offers a small store of sequins, ribbons, lace, elastic, rickrack, and other trimming to offer inspiration for a professional finishing touch. Be sure to have varying threads and machine needle sizes to go with fabrics you may be using in the coming season. 752 There are gadgets such as the bodkin, a large-eyed blunt needle for drawing tape or ribbon through a loop or hem; needle threaders; button gauges, which simplify button sewing by forming a shank automatically; and a sewing bird which holds your fabric firmly in its head, leaving both hands free to hem and baste. Don't forget to look at the new seam rippers, sewing tweezers, and a dozen other sewing helps.