[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 756 | Home | Farm Cellar of Long Ago Marian | R. Anderson]
'There was the pale, oblong lusciousFARM CELLAR OF LONG AGO ness of pears; the purple warmth of plums and huckleberries waiting for their winter pie crusts. 'There were the coral and green of cool, crisp watermelon pickle segments; the midnight darkness of blackberry jam; the cheery globes of the pinkskinned crab apples, which I knew, would eventually accompany roast duck. There were crocks of pickles, too, for more immediate use, and crocks full of aromatic sauerkraut. Here was the very heart of summer dressed in brilliant array. Here were July, August, and September — kept for remembrance when silent snow etched field and bush. Here, too, was romance for an eight-yearold; adventure and love of life and living, spiked with the spices of Araby! In awe I regarded the treasure, dawdling; reveling in color, scent, and imaginations which sailed through my mind on the sea of childish fancy. But I could not tarry much longer, not if there were to be boiled potatoes for supper, dressed with sour cream.... I dived into the potato bin almost regretfully, while the potatoes, pumpkins, squash, beets, and carrots seemed to wink at me. We had achieved a sort of communication in this visit. 'They were good, honest vegetables, waiting their turn to serve, in their way. I felt a peculiar kinship with them — with the entire cellar. I reached in to select the last smooth-skinned, knobby potato, and picked up the lantern. On_ the stairs, I glanced back once. Goodbye, cellar of summer. ['Il carry you in a safe place, close to my heart — until another visit. 755 Quilts That Tell a Story For Mrs. Delila Boice Asay, Lovell, Wyoming, each of the many quilts she has made seems to tell a story of the pleasures of gift making and giving. She has made a quilt for each of her ten children, and for each of her forty grandchildren. Her quilts are beautifully designed and expertly stitched and bound. She knits stoles and afghans, makes rugs, and does beautiful crochet work. Mrs. Asay, also, is devoted to genealogy work and makes record books for members of her family. She is an expert in growing flowers, and is noted for her skill in telling pioneer histories and incidents. ES eee "Fy be $ PL gf Se Nellie Ormond Gibson Mrs. Nellie Ormond Gibson, Rupert, Idaho, considers quilting her major hobby. In addition to the many quilt patterns commonly used, she creates her own designs in patchwork and in the quilting patterns. She loves radiant colors and is skillful in combining tones and tints of material attractively. Her crochet work is exquisitely made, with many designs of her own making. Mrs. Gibson also makes many useful and colorful braided rugs, such as those illustrated in the picture. She has developed a unique method of fastening the braids together with heavy cord which is so integrated in the material that it cannot be seen. A rug which Mrs. Gibson made for a friend's cabin was braided from womout blankets in which the colors were still deep and vibrant, and the rug added much interest to the decor of the cabin. Her six children and all her grandchildren have been recipients of lovely gifts carefully made and "interwoven with love," as she explains the process. 756 Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, his mother Tutu, and the four younger children in the family go from their home on a pineapple plantation on the island of Maui, to Honolulu to meet the eldest daughter Emma Lu, who has graduated as a nurse in San Francisco and is returning home. Emma Lu brings with her Margaret Lester, sister-in-law of Luana, who has come for a visit. Emma Lu tells her mother that she has become engaged to a Sherman Grant, in San Francisco. However, Luana is concerned when Larry Brown, a schoolday sweetheart of Emma Lu's meets the family in Honolulu and appears to be still in love with her. Tue Harrington family gazed in wonder at the golden letters Emma Lu on Larry's airplane. They were at the Honolulu airport and ready to take off for Maui. Larry insisted on flying them home in his own plane. "This is my surprise for Emma Lu," he told them, as his fingers traced the letters of her name on his blue airplane. "Every man has a sweetheart that he never forgets," he went on dreamily. "That's why every plane I ever own will be named Emma Lu." There was a golden silence. Even Ben had a look of enchantment on his strong face. "Hapazulani!" Benjy breathed, holding his sister's hand. "A plane named for you, Emma Lu! That's better than a monkey. 'That's better than any other surprise, I'll bet!" 


 "That's not better than Phil's surprise," Bo objected, "because he brought Larry." "That's right," Phil "Don't you boys forget it." Emma Lu did not speak. Only the soft curve of her lips betrayed her emotion. Luana turned away and stepped into the plane. "Smile, my dear," 'Tutu whispered, as they seated themselves. "Do not let the children feel your disturbance. And they will, you know. A mother's thought is so close with her children. Do not disturb their joy at the end of a glorious holiday. We must be gay." "I will try, Tutu," Luana answered. "Shall we sing?" Tutu called to everyone. "Why sure!" Larry called back. "There's a uke in the rack above your head. Here, Phil, strum this old guitar. I always carry these along. You lead, Tutu." A minute later she was strumming the ukelele, then her low, rich voice hummed an old Hawaiian lullaby. Ben's heavy baritone chimed with hers, and Phil's tenor was high and clear. Even the twins have good voices, Luana thought as everyone joined in. "Sing, Mama," Pixie coaxed, turning to look at Luana. "You come sit with Daddy — you sing so pretty together. I'll sit with Tutu." As Luana lifted her voice with Ben's, her heart lifted, too. It was a glorious ride above the moonlit water. The sky seemed made of another blue tonight, a deep lustrous blue with dazzling stars. She leaned her head against Ben's laughed. 758 shoulder, loving his deep, humming voice. Even though it was an untrained voice, it had power and tone. What is it, she wondered, tenderly, that brings a man and woman together, even from the far corners of the earth — a touch, a look, a certain knowing, and they are in love. They belong together; from that moment they will find the stars together. So it had been with her and Ben. Sweethearts through storm or shine. Tey ended that song and began another, and another. Luana knew that Tutu would soon begin the Marine hymn. She never let the children forget their father's bravery during the war. "From the Halls of Montezuma" soon echoed through the plane. Luana felt Ben's arm tighten around her. He, too, was remembering those long vears of hardship and separation. Gently, reverently, Tutu led them into "Come, Come, Ye Saints." The whole, starry night was filled with melody, and with the courage and strength that song always gives to those who love it. Time and the world stood still. The twins slept peacefully against Phil's shoulders, and Pixie leaned near Tutu who held her, lovingly. Pixie had been troubled lately, Luana had _ noticed. Sometimes when she came home from school she was restless and moody. But tonight she had sung gaily, and now she was resting. 'Tutu can give peace to anyone, Luana thought. She is a peacemaker, and that is a precious gift. It was Tutu, she remembered, who had calmed her fears when Ben was on the battlefront in the war; it was Tutu who had soothed her when Emma Lu was born, while Ben was still in Guadalcanal; and it was Tutu who had taught her to trust the Heavenly Father in every family crisis. "He is the all-wise, loving Parent," she always said. "He knows what is best for all of us, and the lessons we must learn." The plane sped quietly through the silver night, like a big bird winging homeward. Luana could hear Larry, Emma Lu, and Margaret talking together. "How do you like Hawaii?" Larry asked Margaret. Margaret's voice was ecstatic. "I'm entranced," she said. "I can hardlv wait to start painting. Such gorgeous color and setting." "Say, Margaret!" Larry snapped his fingers. "I just thought of something. Why don't you enter the Andrus McDougal Contest for Hawaiian Art? There's a big prize — ten thousand dollars, I think." "How wonderful!" Margaret exclaimed. "I can surely try to win it. Ig ana's heart sank dismally. Oh, no, she thought. No! No! No! That was her contest this year. She had her painting ready to mail. That was her surprise for her family. The prize money would pay to have Pixie's teeth straightened, and send Philip to college, and give Emma Lu an appropriate wedding reception. And it would ease the pressure of her husband's financial burdens on the plantation. She put her hands over her ears. KISS OF THE WIND She could not bear to hear them talk about it. But thoughts tumbled through her mind. Margaret had won many art contests. She was an established artist. She knew how to paint the kind of picture that won contests. Luana had heard her tell how she searched for a setting or a subject that would intrigue the judges; how she spent days before she ever began to paint, looking for the exact spot, or the right coloring, or the perfect time of day or night. Compared to Margaret, Luana realized she was merely an amateur. The thought of it made her weak with frustration. Ben was gazing out of the window at the big pearly moon. He was not aware that Luana was upset. She felt the plane descending. Then she saw the lights of the Maui airport beneath them. "Fasten your seat belts," Larry called. He dipped the plane and the jolt awakened everyone. "Make it somersault," yelled. "Not tonight, Benjy," he said. "That's only for show. Tonight I have a precious cargo." He set the plane down with the ease and precision of the professional pilot. "Right on the nose!" Phil said, with an admiring glance at Larry as they stepped out of the plane. "Now look," he went on. "Everybody wait here. I'll bring the car." 'Me, too," Bo said. He and Benjy ran after him. Benjy Luana took a deep breath. 'The Harrington's were always hospitable. She must show her appreciation for their wonderful ride home. 


 "Come home with us, Larry," she said. "We'll have bengals and ham and ginger punch. And _ those coconut cookies you used to like." Their eyes met. Larry was pleased, but he shook his head. "Thanks, Mrs. Harrington," he said. "I appreciate your invitation, but I'm due out on a run to Sydney at four a. M. It's been a great day," he added, his voice melting. "Like old times."

He turned back to the plane. Emma Lu was standing beside it, gazing at her name in golden letters. Ben touched Luana's arm. They stood together, watching Larry and Emma Lu, whose face was upturned to his.