[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 744 | Poem | Farewell to a House Well Loved | Mabel Jones Gabbott]
Farewell to a House Well Loved Mabel Jones Gabbott I shall take the Wedgewood pitcher from the shelf, And father's desk that stands beside the door, And this hooked rug that I once made myself, And mother's maple rocker — nothing more. Now, I must say goodbye to these stucco walls, Built by my pioneer father years ago, Must bid farewell to rooms within, and halls, And to this garden where the rose and tulip grow. For just one moment I must sit again Before the fire in the inglenook, And dream of winter days and the east wind That whipped the flames up as we read The Book. And having all these memories to hold, I shall not mind because the house is sold. 744 IMikzs. HILDA ANDERSSON ERICKSON, one hundred and three years old, is the only living Latter-day Saint pioneer woman (one who crossed the plains before the coming of the railroad to Utah in 1869). Mrs. Erickson stood alone at the annual pioneer luncheon, July 24, when hundreds of guests arose and offered her a heartfelt ovation, standing until she smilingly waved them down. Mrs. Erickson has been a business woman, dentist, missionary, rancher, and banker. ELNoRA 3B. KNOPF is a_ wellknown and highly respected structural geologist. Her specialty is rock structure, and she is an authority on many areas, including the Stissing Mountains of New York State, which she describes in detail in her newest publication "Stratigraphy and Structure of the Stissing Mountain Area." WVALENTINA TERESHKOVA, a former Russian factory worker, became the first woman in space when she was launched on a flight June 16, 1963. She orbited the earth forty-eight times in seventy hours and fifty minutes. Mizs. HEIM, fifty-six, editor and founder ALICIA PATTERSON GUGGENof the Long Island newspaper Newsday, died in New York, July 2, 1963. Daughter of Joseph Medill Patterson, famous founder of the New York News, she was also a cousin of Robert R. McCormick of the Chicago Tribune. She welcomed conflicting ideas in_ her paper, especially those of her husband, with whom she frequently differed. She was considered one of the "greats" in the newspaper world, giving her paper "vitality, courage, high readability and hardhitting investigative reporting." FF RENCH MADAME ERNEST (JULIE) ROUART still lives in and cherishes the lovely home built long