[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 732 | Special Feature | The Power of Books Spencer | W. Kimball]
[The Power of Books Spencer W. Kimball]

"T bear my testimony to you, and to the world, that Joseph was raised up by the power of God to lay the foundations of this great latter-day work, to reveal the fulness of the Gospel to the world, in this dispensation, to restore the priesthood of God to the world, by which men may act in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, and it will be accepted of PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH God, it will be by his authority. I bear my testimony to it; I know that it is true" (The Improvement Era, Vol. 14, November 1910, page ). Mero me there is a sweet fascination in the contemplation of his [Joseph Smith's] childhood and youth. I love to contemplate the innocence and the artless simplicity of his boyhood. It bears record that he was honest, that he was led by the spirit of God to perform his wonderful mission. How could a child at his age be impelled by other than honest motives in the accomplishment of his high and holy calling? What he did he was led to do by the inspiration and guidance of his Heavenly Father, of this I feel assured. "He was much like other children; his play was like that of his companions; his thoughts like those of most children, were innocent, and consequently he was incapable of the knavery and connivance that his enemies declared he practiced. "Though poor, his parents were honest and good; they delighted in the truth, and it was their honest desire to live according to the best light within them. Love and good will to all found expression in their hearts and actions, and their children were imbued with like sentiments. They were firm believers in God and trusted in his watchcare over his children. 'They had frequently received manifestations of his loving kindness in dreams, visions and inspirations, and God had healed their little ones in answer to prayer when they were nigh unto death. It was in such an atmosphere that the boy was reared. Joseph was a remarkably quiet and well disposed child who gave his parents little or no trouble. At an eatly age of eight, he gave proof that besides being thoughtful, easily governed and of sweet and loving disposition, he possessed the foundation principles of a good character, filial affection, patience, endurance, courage. "Concerning his spiritual manifestations, is it reasonable to suppose that there could have been premeditated deceit on the part of the boy, and such a boy, in his simple statement of what he saw and heard? No; neither could the answer which the heavenly messenger gave to him, have been composed in the child's own mind. Joseph Smith's testimony concerning his heavenly manifestation, in later life, was as simple, straight-forward, plain and true, as it had been in childhood; the fidelity, courage and love implanted in and characteristic of his life in boyhood neither faltered or changed, with maturity. His wisdom came in revelations of God to him" (Improvement Era, December 1917, page 167). 733 Your search for a magic, effortless solution, or for a fairy godmother who could lift all your problems from your shoulders, has been in vain. Now it is time to face your situation honestly and _realistically. You are no longer a baby living in a_ plush, self-centered world, having no responsibilities or unfulfilled desires. You are the center of your own very real and very earnest adult world. You must do for yourself what no one else is able to do for you. You must tackle the terribly hard, never-ending, tedious, discouraging job of self-mastery for 'es Nag aver TOR Oe, e's Ral Mary M. Ellsworth yourself and by yourself. Relatives and neighbors can sympathize and advise and encourage, but you must lay the groundwork. Your finest outside help will come from the Lord, the only person who actually comprehends human _ be havior patterns in general and your unique combination in_ particular. Stay close to him through prayer and faith and blessings. Put your trust in him and practice leaving your worries in his hands. Dont take them to him and then bring them away with you, so you are just as worried and unhappy as before. *Condensed and abridged from "If Not Me, Who? If Not Now, When?" 734 CHILDREN OF HOMER AND MARY MADSEN ELLSWORTH Clockwise: Larry, four; Patrice, nine; Sterling, seven; Richard, thirteen; Elise, twelve; Ellen, twelve; Duffy, six. Center: Tina, fifteen; Mary, sixteen. If the worries come back, take them to him over and over, until at last you have peace. Give the following self-help pointers a mighty try. And when you fail and are discouraged, give them another try and another: 1. Don't expect any more of yourself than you do of others. Be patient and tolerant of yourself. Your goals should be high and challenging — but not impossible. 2. Take one thing at a time. Do not allow your mind to become a whip that races through an endless list of undone jobs. Move through life in "second gear," at an easy, measured pace, taking on just one job at a time and no other. When it is finished, go on to the next. Refuse to be hurried. Actually, you will accomplish more this way and with less wasted energy. A bright, early start after a full night's sleep is a big advantage toward a calm day. 3. Keep your life simple. Refuse 


 to be pushed into more outside activity than you can handle. "The things that matter most should not be at the mercy of the things that matter least." Allowing unessentials or lesser responsibilities to crowd out duties toward family, Church, and basic convictions will invariably lead to guilt feelings. They, in turn, enhance irritations and swell into "blue" moods. 4. Develop not only simplicity in your way of life, but in your choice of pleasures and enjoyments, also. Train yourself to appreciate the free, ample beauties and marvels and joys all about you, in nature, for instance. Make a hobby of studying and liking people. 5. Realize that you can, with prayer and faith and determination, change yourself — if you really want to change more than you want to remain as you are. For example, a person may wish to become mature, unselfish, uncomplaining; however, she may desire to be pitied, sympathized with, and helped more. She cannot bring herself to give up a clinging, dependent, martyr-type role for an independent, self-sufficient one. Here is the crux of the task of changing oneself: desire is the most essential ingredient. 6. Exercise regularly, or go walking or swimming, when possible. Often when you feel all you need is rest, systematic exercise will do more good. It will result in fewer aches and pains and weak and strained muscles. It gives a feeling of wellbeing and vitality. The end product is more energy, rather than less. 736 Try to get eight hours of sleep each night and fifteen-minute rests during the day, following overexertion; take leisurely tub baths; deliberately relax each part of the body to complete limpness. Deep breathing, also, is beneficial for a healthy emotional state. Many people find lying on a slant board or in a position which props the legs and feet higher than the head excellent for repose and for increased circulation to the face and scalp. Don't forget that your physical and emotional conditions are so deeply entwined that the one always strongly affects the other. Very often when an illness occurs, it cannot be determined what the initial cause was — the physical or the emotional. The more distraught you become, the greater is your need to force yourself to exercise, eat three balanced meals a day, stay on a schedule which will keep your mind occupied and off yourself, and get plenty of undisturbed rest. Most important: picture yourself as being well. This does not counsel you to neglect real health problems. It merely suggests that a person may easily develop the habit of minutely examining herself for possible disorders which, in time, her imagination may accommodatingly provide. 7. Don't allow yourself to be "carried away" by your emotions. You can nip them in the bud or let them barrel into a fast-moving avalanche. Don't try to push a thought or feeling out of your mind. This process will only make it stick all the tighter. Instead, force a smile, sing, "play act" the part of serenity, relax your tightened face and fist muscles — and think of something different, something uplifting and pleasant. This is the highly successful method used on small children — distraction. 8. Don't fear your condition or burdens. 'Take them out in the open and examine them as objectively and calmly as possible. Decide which troubles can be eliminated and take steps to do so. 'Those which you cannot alter or do away with, you must accept. To make the world over to suit you is a large order. If you cannot have what you like, maybe you can like what you have. Pray for strength to live with your problems or to overcome them, rather than to have them removed. Troubles of all types will be with you always. Indeed, they may be blessings in disguise. They are your building blocks to character and wisdom. Your Heavenly Father has never promised to keep pain and trouble from you, but he has assured you that you will endure "to the end" and be blessed beyond your imagination, if you keep his commandments to the best of your ability, despite the suffering and tribulations you encounter. Don't feel guilty when "bad" thoughts come to you. They come to everyone.

President George Albert Smith explained once that evil comes in relishing and nourishing and encouraging bad thoughts, instead of banishing them. 9. Work in daytime compartments. 'Think only in terms of today, not the past or the future. A MESSAGE TO YOUNG MOTHERS Today is all you actually have. It is eternity. Let the future rest in God's hands, have faith. "Faith is the foundation of all things — including happiness' (PRESENT Davin O. McKay). Make each day a happy, successful one, even as if it were to be your last one. Don't make the tragic mistake of putting off happiness for a future time. 'Take it as you go along. Build up rich memories for yourself and your family. 10. Try to have some planned time away from your family. Do whatever you please with it. It gives you something to anticipate. Change brings renewal. Learn to enjoy solitude; it expands the soul. Have a creative-type hobby. 11. Welcome work. Discover the satisfaction of doing things well and efficiently, and use work to "blow off steam." You would be outrageously bored without it. 12. Don't take yourself too seriously. You have gained real maturity when you can admit your own blunders and laugh at them. Keep an open mind. Discuss, don't argue. Small minds are stubbornly closed. Great minds are humble and teachable. 13. Let your virtues speak for themselves, but take every opportunity to praise another's. Pay no attention to ill-natured remarks about yourself. So live that nobody will believe them. The worst self-destructive forces in this world are anger, resentment, and self-pity. Don't let them rob 


 you of your happiness. No momentary satisfaction is worth their terrible price. 14. Know that you must have self-respect before you can reach out to others. So live that you can like yourself and live on agreeable terms with yourself. "Love your neighbor as yourself." You can like yourself only when your conscience is at rest. Lying, for instance, destroys peace of mind and causes fear and inner turmoil, even when undetected. The so-called white lies can be avoided bv forethought and simple statements. Long explanations are not required. And, very, very important: Do some act of kindness for someone each day. Reach out to others unselfishly, willingly, kindly in your thoughts and actions. No one will ever find or keep a deep inner happiness who does not grow to this level. When in doubt, always do and say the kind thing. True friends enrich life. If you would have friends, be one. Be true to those who trust you. Mrs. Emma Ray McKay, wife of President David O. McKay, suggests that you meet your husband not fifty per cent of the way, but at least eighty or ninety per cent of the way. (Incidentally, she warns, also, not to expect your husband to make marriage his whole life, as it must be a woman's, and not to "cry over spilt milk.'') 15. Keep your mind full of beauttful, encouraging thoughts. Ruth May Fox used to pin songs, poems, or scriptures in front of her as she washed her dishes or ironed her 738 clothes or sewed. Thus, she was always memorizing some inspirational message. What a storehouse of help to have ever with you to call up when the need arises! When the going is good, tell yourself life is wonderful, and allow yourself the delightful feeling of being happy, enjoying the beautiful, believing the best. 16. Never say or do anything you wouldn't be willing to have your child copy — because he probably will. 17. Never overlook the boost a new hair-do and a neat, trim appearance can give you. Daintiness and attractiveness develop assurance and poise. (Don't confuse neatness with extravagant slavishness to current fashion trends, though. ) 18. Be thrifty. A most contagious sickness of the day is materialism. Don't race the "Joneses," race your own best potential. Remember the saying, "We spend money we don't have,-to buy things we don't need, to impress people we don't care for." No one can feel free under a load of debt. This is true slavery. 19. Salvage as much of each day as possible. Don't allow one slip to cancel all your efforts. Each wrong thought checked, each unkind word unspoken is a victory and a step ahead. Don't attempt to remodel yourself completely all at once. 'Take one trait at a time. Work on it alone for a week, or a month, or a year. When it is conquered, proceed to the next one. In a few years, you surely will have weeded out most of your own worst enemies. Don't ever forget the blessed principle of repentarice. "A man is far more imporant to God than the mistakes he has made. The gospel is from now on" (Marion Durr Hanks). Isaiah promises that the man who contritely and humbly forsakes his sins and asks for forgiveness will receive it. Then do not go back and dwell on them and probe into them, but rather forgive yourself your own mistakes, as you forgive your neighbors theirs, and gain wisdom through them. 20. Practice self-discipline in little measures daily until your will power grows stronger. Soon it will stand you in good stead in big emergencies. For example, force yourself out of bed earlier than necessary or give up a favorite fattening food. Do something difficult like addressing an audience or writing a note of pardon. 21. Remember escape is imposA MESSAGE TO YOUNG MOTHERS sible. You are ever with yourself. Relocation of home or job, trips, drugs, housewives going to work outside the home are common escape routes. They do not still the conscience or change the personality, however. You must achieve happrness within yourself regardless of your physical surroundings. Granted, some environments more readily lend themselves to pleasantry than others. But many of the saddest, most dejected people in the world reside in such "ideal" places; and truly joyful, contented, serene people can be found dwelling in poverty, pain, and hunger, even homeless. By now, you know how to stand squarely on your own two feet, neither clinging to your husband nor depending on your mother for your own emotional maturity. What you do with this information is up to you. Either you can use it and find hidden treasures of satisfaction and peace and happiness, or you can continue to limp through life on your self-made crutches. The decision lS yours.