[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 739 | Poem | Watchcare | Zara Sabin]
Watchcare
Zara  Sahin
In  the  autumn  turn  of  leaves.
When  the  green  cat-berries  darken
Near  the  river  bank;  when  sheaves
Of  garnered  grain  stand  in  the  fields,
And  all  of  kindly  nature  yields
Her  harvest,  it  is  time  to  hearken
For  the  call  of  southward  flying
Geese,  until  the  cadence,  dying
In  the  dim  distance,  calls  to  mind
The  dear  Lord's  watchcare  of  mankind.
739

The  Pendant
Hazel  Cheesman
00  you  remember  those  Add-A-  —  but  that  was  the  final  blow.
Pearl  necklace  advertisements  they  After  a  short  nap,  which  was  all
used  to  have  in  the  magazines?  the  sleep  we  ever  got  or  expected
That's  the  way  my  Christmases  have  on  Christmas  Eve,  we  were  awak-
been.  Each  year  another  perfectly  ened  by  what  sounded  like  a  runa-
matched  pearl.  Every  year  except  way  freight  train  headed  for  the
one.  That  was  the  year  my  necklace  living  room.  Somehow  we  found
was  centered  with  a  beautiful  pend-  our  robes  and  slippers,  and  led  each
ant,  crystal-clear  and  precious.  other  through   the  doorway.     The
It  wasn't  just  because  the  children  children  had  turned  on  the  tree
were  little  and  still  at  home  that  lights  and  were  seated  in  a  circle,
that  Christmas  was  memorable.  Nor  ready  for  the  present-passing  cere-
had  our  financial  circumstances  im-  mony.  The  lumpy  stockings  had
proved  any  —  we  were  very  poor,  as  already  vanished,  confiscated  in  a
usual.     Certainly  it  wasn't  because  pre-dawn  raid  and  emptied  out  on
1  had  kept  my  annual  resolution  to  the  children's  beds.
have    all    my    Christmas    shopping         It  took  time  to  pry  them  out  of
done  by  October.  the   welter  of   toys   and    discarded
No,  it  was  the  same  mad  hassle  wrappings  long  enough  for  break-
as  always.  Late  Christmas  Eve  fast.  But  even  though  it  was  very
found  my  husband  and  me  strug-  late,  nobody  had  much  appetite,
gling  to  assemble  toys  from  direc-  Sampling  their  stocking  contents  be-
tions  which  would  have  baffled  a  fore  breakfast  was  frowned  upon,  of
mechanical  engineer;  and  arranging  course,  but  I  had  a  sneaking  feeling