Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in March)
THE PROPHETS OF THE MOSAIC DISPENSATION
A. What is a Prophet?
Generally speaking a prophet is one who foretells, but from a theological point of view, a prophet is one who foretells by the direct power of God. His foretelling must be miraculous; i. e., based upon super-human aid. The Apostle Peter clearly points out that true prophecy is a gift to man, not something to be acquired as is the case with the astronomer, who by his observation and mathematical calculations can predict to the minute the time when a planet will be in a certain place. (See I Peter 1:21.)
B. Prophets, Seers and Revelators.
A prophet speaks or writes the future as God has decreed it. If he sees what he predicts he becomes a seer. Thus, all true prophets are revelators but not essentially seers. The seer may see into the past the present or the future and make no revelation of his vision. At the close of one of the greatest visions the seer was forbidden to write all that he had seen. (See Book of Mormon, I Nephi 14:28.)
One of the chief privileges of the revelator is that of giving doctrine or laws under the authority of God. As we have seen in a previous lesson, Moses was a prophet, seer and revelator, with the revelator function predominating, making him the great lawgiver. Samuel was a prophet and revelator to Eli. (See I Sam. 3:11-14.) The wide range of his visions as a seer has led to the belief that this gift was the most prominent in his life. (See I Sam. 9:7-15.) Amos appears to have been more of a prophet than a seer, and as a prophet he was terribly denunciative. (See Amos 3:1-2; 4:1-4.)
C. The Qualities of a True Prophet.
1. Righteousness.
2. Complete surrender to God (See Ezek. 2:1-7).
3. Fearless faithfulness (See Ezek. 3:17-21).

D. False Prophets.
There were imposters, not a few, who spoke in the name of the Lord as prophets. (See Jer. 29:8, 9, 21; 38:19.) These were theological imposters who studied the trend of public sentiment and made predictions which they thought would give them public preference. They used the name of the Lord while possessed with the spirit of the evil one. With them it was not a question of the will of the Lord but of the wish of the people. That these emissaries of the evil one were objects of denunciation by the true prophets is shown in Jeremiah 29:8, 9, 21, and that they had influence with kings, in Jeremiah 37:19.
The qualities of these false prophets were:
1. Alertness.
2. Dexterity in deception.
3. Audacity in assumption of authority. (See Micah 3:5-11.)
E. Some of the Prophets Closely Related to Our Dispensation:
1. By Their Words: Job: "For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth." (Job 19:25.)
Daniel: "And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to another people." (Dan. 2:44.)
Micah: "But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it. And many nations shall come, and say, come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. And he shall judge among many people, and rebuke strong nations afar off; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up a sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more." (See Micah 4:1-3.)
2. By Their Works, as Messengers from Heaven. (a) Moses, (b) Elias, (c) Elijah. Each of these had his definite mission. (See D. & C. 110.)
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Give evidence that a true prophet is more than a person who truly foretells the future.
2. Distinguish between the gift of a seer and that of a revelator.
3. Prove that Samuel's prophecies never failed, and tell why. (See I Sam. 3:18, 19.)
4. What part of Micah 4:1, 2, 3 has been fulfilled? What