GUIDE LESSONS. 161 cometh into the world" (Doc. and Cov. 84:45-47). This is what makes repentance, no less than faith, a gift from God. When His Spirit ceases to strive with men, they no longer desire to repent, and are delivered over to the buffetings of Satan. They deliver themselves over to those buffetings. They make their choice between the spirit of good and the spirit of evil, both of which are in the world, influencing the spirit of man, and they receive their wages from the master whom they list to obey. The Spirit of God and the' Holy Ghost. ? A distinction should be drawn between the Spirit "that enlighteneth every man," and the Holy Ghost, whose gifts are given to members of the Church of Christ. The former is an influence, proceeding from the Divine Presence; the latter a personage, one of the Godhead, concerning whom the Prophet Joseph says: "The Father has a body of flesh and bones, as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost is a personage of Spirit. Were is not so the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us" (Doc. and Cov. 130:22). The Prophet says further upon this subject: "There is a difference between the Holy Ghost and the gift of the Holy Ghost. Cornelius received the Holy Ghost before he was baptized, which was the convincing power of God unto him of the truth of the Gospel, but he could not receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, until after he was baptized. Had he not taken this sign or ordinance upon him, the Holy Ghost which convinced him of the truth of God would have left him." ? ("Joseph Smith's Teachings," p. 69.) Real Repentance. ? Repentance is not that superficial sorrow felt by a criminal when caught in the act of wrong-doing ? a sorrow not for sin, but for sin's detection, for being taken in transgression. Chagrin is not repentance. Mortification and shame, alone, bring no change of heart toward right living or right feeling. Repentance involves remorse; but even remorse is not all there is to repentance. In its highest meaning and fullest measure, repentance is equivalent to reformation ? a resolve to "sin no more," backed up by conduct consistent with such a determination. "Repentance is a thing that cannot be trifled with every day. Daily transgression and daily repentance is not that which is pleasing in the sight of God" ("Joseph Smith's Teachings," f. 136). "Bv this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins. Behold, he will confess them and forsake them" (Doc. and Cov. 58:43). This is a real, genuine repentance. All who truly repent can be forgiven. These, and these alone, are ready for the cleansing process ? baptism for the remission of sins. Without repentance, there is no forgiveness, and consequently no remission of sins. Damnation No Part of the Gospel. ? Damnation is no part of the Gospel. Damnation or condemnation is simply the sad alternative, the inevitable consequence of rejecting the means of 
 escape. When men hear the Gospel and refuse to obey it, they come under condemnation. This cannot be helped. God would save them, but they will not be saved. They are free agents, and they damn themselves. Says Joseph the Prophet: "When God offers knowledge or a gift to a man, and he refuses to receive it, he will be damned." Not because God wishes to damn him, but because damnation is inevitable when one rejects the offer of salvation. Sin, a Wilful Transgression of Law. ? A man sins when he goes contrary to light and knowledge ? that is, contrary to the light and knowledge that has come to him. One may blunder in ignorance, and suffer painful consequences; but one does not sin unless one knows better than to do the thing in which the sin consists. Condemnation Measured by Culpability. ? They who refuse to repent will be damned; they damn themselves by that refusal. But damnation is not necessarily permanent, and like salvation or exaltation, it exists in degrees. The degree of condemnation is according to the measure of culpability in those condemned. Even the damned, who repent, can be saved. Some Souls Incapable of Repentance. ? Some sinners cannot repent. Their sins are of such a heinous character as to preclude it. The spirit of repentance cannot lay hold upon them. Their conduct has so grieved it, that it is completely withdrawn. Consequently they cannot repent, and that is what makes their case hopeless. If they could repent, they could be forgiven; but not being able to repent, the pardoning power cannot reach them. There would be no unpardonable sin if all sinners were capable of repentance. Those who cannot repent, who have committed the sin unpardonable, are called sons of perdition. ? (From "Gospel Themes.") Genealogy. First Week. Lesson III ? Individual and Family Histories. 1. Begin your work of recording with known facts. 2. Write all your own data. Birth. Baptism. Marriage. Birth of each child. Death of any child. Endowment date. Official positions in Relief Society or other auxiliary organizations. GUIDE LESSONS. 163 3. Write same data about husband. 4. Write same data about children. 5. Write same data about parents. Note. ? The Genealogical Society has prepared a living record book, which is on sale for $1.25. It is invaluable for the living family record. SAMPLE PAGE. Day Index Page NAME IN FULL: -RESIDENCE Day DATE DATE IMPORTANT EVENTS ETC Mo. Yr. Mo. Important Events,  Etc  1 Yr. : Born at Blessed by Baptized by Confirmed by Schooling commenced at Graduated Ordained a by Ordained a by. _. Ordained a by Married to Married by at Endowed at Patriarchal Blessing by Mission to Returned from Mission. Migrated from to ^ Avocation.. Height... Weight.. Chest Size... Color of Eyes Color of Hair General Condition of Health.. _ Specially Interested in.. .. 1 Home Ethics and Art. ETHICS. Lesson IV ? Integrity. (a) The principle of whole-hearted uprightness in an individual is sometimes called integrity. (b) Dependableness ? which may be named as one phase of integrity is of supreme importance in: 1. Business life. 2. Social activities. 3. Domestic relations. 4. Religious affairs. Carelessness in any and all these relations amounts at times to dishonesty. 
 To know that a person will keep his word, attend to a certain piece of work, and that he will not fail except for good and sufficient reasons, inspires one with confidence and trust in that person. He may have other faults, few or many; but when he has integrity, his minor lapses can be forgiven. No mortal possesses perfect integrity. We can only climb slowly upwards to that perfect ideal. It is this striving which will mold and purify our characters. QUESTIONS. How would you describe an upright man? What would our lives become if society as a whole lacked integrity? Why is integrity important in business? In social life? In our homes? In our religion? What is the difference between truthfulness and integrity? What do the Scriptures say of the upright man? II Sam. 22:26; Ps. 18:25; Prov. 11:3; 11:6; 11:20; Eccl. 7:29; Job 33:23; Prov. 14:2; Isa. 26:7, 10. , Note. ? A good dictionary should be used as a help in defining words and terms. ART. "In my Father's house are many mansions" ? -words of Christ. ("Devotees and Their Shrine," pp. 20-32.) (a) Describe the architecture in the Valley in the early fifties. (b) What was Brigham Young's attitude and influence upon art? (c) Tell of the organization of the first art school in the West. Name its officers, directors and faculty. (d) Tell of the building of the great Tabernacle. How did it gets its unique form? What were the attainments of the Folsoms? (e) Read "The Organ Builder." Describe the Tabernacle organ. What can you say of its musical tone? Compare it with other church organs you have heard. (f ) Tell of the life work of Ralph Ramsey. Where was the mahogany obtained with which to build the organ? Describe Ramsey's carving on the great organ. NOTICE Subscriptions to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE will be taken for one, two, three, six months or a year. Payment in advance, p. W. Dunyon Co Joseph J. Daynes 502 Templeton Bldg. Professional Tuner and SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Voicer of the Piano Send to us for our catalog Worn Out Pianos rebuilt. Write for and free samples of prices of work to be done outside of Salt Lake City Approved Knitted Garment Material Phone, Was. 6577 IV Sell Everything by Mail 
, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH SALT LAKE CITY -UTAH The shoe store for the whole family? and every pair of shoes a "Money Back" quality. SALT LAKE'S LARGEST AND FINEST SHOE STORE Scrace's Bakery and Cafe Fresh Bread, Cakes and Pastry Daily Headquarters for Relief Society Visitors. A Good Place to Eat. E. L. SAUNDERS. Proprietor Peone Wasatch 1230 24 South Main Street THE I purpose at the Bank IT of is this UTAH STATE NATIONAL all times to render ? BANK helpful service and SALT LAKE CITY make the handling l/TAH of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH. Pre.. When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct What is Home Style, Excellence and Satisfaction Without THE The Thomas SATURDAY Studio NEWS Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. McCONAHAY'S Stock of Cameos said to be one of the largest shown in the country. We welcome the chance McCONAHAY to show them to you. THE JEWELER 64 Main Street $1.00 to $300. Salt Lake City W. N. Williams, Supt. R. N. Wilson, Asst. Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y and Treas. GUARANTEED FURNITURE AT LOWEST PRICES Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT FURNITURE CO-OP Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. CO. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design ? beautiful in finish ? pure and sweet, rich and full in tone ? the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. Daynes-Beebe Music Co "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH' The master skill of our Famous Danish Butter Makers contributes much toward the general superiority of Jensen's Blanchard Butter and Jensen's Four-in-One Butter. Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. School Shoes for Boys They keep the feet warm and dry save unnecessary suffering and doctor's expense. "MOUNTAINEER" and "THE LEADER" Overalls Don't Rip, are Honestly Made. Devotees and Supplies for Temple Their Shrines Uses Those who desire neat, attractive Art Book in use by and moderate-priced articles for rent or purchase, for use in the Relief Society the Temple, should apply to $1.25 Relief Society Headquarters, Post Paid Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. EX MERSVIS HOCU IONSITORS' EAST DECEMBER 19 and 22, 1914 Following low round trip fares will prevail from Salt Lake City: Denver or Colorado Springs $22.50 Omaha or Kansas City 40.00 Memphis 59.85 Chicago 59.72 St. Paul or Minneapolis 53.86 Proportionately low rates from other points on the Oregon Short Line to the foregoing and many other points. See agents for particulars. CITY TICKET OFFICE HOTEL UTAH SALT LAKE CITY Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah