[Vol44 | August 1957 | Sequence: 19 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Bingham]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the South Australian Mission Adelphia D. Bingham]
meant. 
She  examined  their  every  feature, 
an  ache  in  her  heart  to  think  that 
she  had  never  known  them.  After 
a  time,  she  walked  to  the  corner  of 
the  room  and  opened  the  lid  of  the 
huge  Chinese  chest.  For  a  mo- 
ment she  simply  stood  there,  her 
eyes  brooding  on  past  memories. 
She  could  see  herself  sitting  on 
Grandfather  Tracy's  knee,  his  arm 
held  lovingly  about  her,  as  he  slowly 
unfolded  his  fascinating  tales  of  far- 
away places.  Places  with  names  that 
rang  like  bells,  bronze  bells  in  an- 
cient temples,  silver  ones  on  cor- 
nices of  pagodas  standing  tall  above 
rice  swamps  —  China.  Memories 
of  herself  and  Aunt  Em  sitting  in 
the  eight-sided  cupola  patiently 
watching  for  Grandfather's  ship  to 
round  into  the  Golden  Gate.  Final- 
ly, the  ship  moving  toward  them 
out  of  the  fog,  phosphorescence 
round  it  making  silvery  fire,  and 
each  approaching  swell  gleaming 
soft  and  multicolored  as  opals.  Then

THE  BRIGHT  STAR 
525 
the  blast  of  the  horn  as  the  ship 
passed  through  the  ''Gate/'  signify- 
ing all  was  well. 
Yes,  memories  that  she  treasured 
as  much  as  she  treasured  Aunt  Em's 
love  and  devotion,  she  thought.  In 
her  heart  she  was  a  Tracy,  and 
would  be  always,  loving  the  old  gray 
house,  Aunt  Em,  and  the  things 
she  had  taught  her  —  her  values 
crystal  clear,  her  loyalties  true.  Of 
these  things  she  was  sure. 
"DUT  how  strange  to  realize  that 
she  was  really  a  Fenton.  Was 
it  possible  that  she  was  actually  old 
Phin's  granddaughter?  But  why,  she 
wondered,  had  he  never  acknowl- 
edged their  relationship?  Or  was  it 
because  he  had  never  known  who 
she  was?  She  remembered  hearing, 
years  ago,  that  Phineas  had  quarreled 
with  his  elder  son  over  some  trivial 
matter.  Grandfather  Tracy  had  de- 
clared that  it  was  old  Phin's  stub- 
bornness that  had  caused  the  rift 
between  the  two.  She  remembered, 
too,  allusions  to  a  quarrel  between 
Phineas  and  Grandfather  Tracy  be- 
cause Grandfather  had  taken  the 
son's  part  in  this  matter  —  the  only 
quarrel  in  a  lifelong  friendship. 
There  had  never  been  any  mention 
of  her  being  a  relative  of  old  Phin's, 
however. 
She  looked  at  the  locket  closely, 
and  thought  of  the  many  things  she 
could  buy  if  she  sold  it.  It  was 
undoubtedly  extremely  valuable.  It 
would  probably  pay  for  continued 
nursing  care  for  Aunt  Em  and  that 
year  in  art  school.  For  a  moment 
she  was  tempted,  but  no,  she'd  bury 
the  locket  and  her  identity  with  it, 
deep  down  beneath  the  piles  of  silk- 
en kimonos  and  trinkets;  these  treas- 
ured gifts  that  she  had  long  since 
outgrown,  but  could  never  bear  to 
part  with.  If  she  was  really  Phineas 
Fenton's  granddaughter  and  he 
didn't  want  to  acknowledge  her,  she 
would  do  nothing  to  call  his  atten- 
tion to  their  relationship. 
''No  one  need  ever  know  that  I've 
found  Aunt  Em's  Bright  Star!" 
She  had  just  closed  the  lid  of  the 
chest  when  the  doorbell  rang.  Jim, 
she  thought,  as  she  went  to  answer 
it. 
Kathy  and  Jim  talked  earnestly 
for  a  long  time.  He  had  come  to 
offer  to  release  Kathy  from  their 
engagement. 
'Td  never  give  you  up,"  he  said 
seriously,  "but  I've  finally  realized 
that  you  don't  really  love  me,  and 
it's  foolish  to  hold  you  to  your 
promise." 
Jim  was  right,  of  course,  Kathy 
concluded.  She  was  glad  he  had 
the  courage  to  admit  what  he  knew 
to  be  true.  He  was  too  honest  a  per- 
son to  hold  her  to  a  bargain  she 
didn't  want  to  keep. 
'Tour  new  neighbor,  Jim,"  she 
said,  "tell  me  about  her." 
"She's  a  very  fine  girl,"  he  told 
her.  "A  recent  convert  from  Swed- 
en, and  terribly  lonesome,  over  here 
all  alone." 
"I  think  she's  in  love  with  you, 
Jim,"  she  said.  "I  think  she'd  make 
you  a  splendid  wife." 
"She  does  need  someone  .  .  ." 
Jim  said  slowly,  as  though  thinking 
it  over. 
"Promise  me  one  thing,"  Kathy 
said,  "whether  you  marry  Lina  or 
someone  else  —  that  you  will  never 
marry  outside  the  temple." 
Jim  gave  her  his  solemn  promise. 
*     *     *     * 
ORIGHT  and  early  one  morning  a 
few  days  later  Marc  Hale  pre-

526  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1957 
sented  himself  at  the  kitchen  door,  out  of  the  house  to  make  sure  he 
Kathy  and  Aunt  Em  had  just  sat  didn't  have  any  more  surprises  for 
down  to  their  breakfast  of  hot  muf-  Aunt  Em. 
fins,  honey,  and  milk.  'T\\  be  glad  to." 
"May  I  come  in?"  he  asked.    He  "Fine.     Now,   would  you   mind 
looked  so  serious  Kathy  hoped  he  putting   some  wood   in   the   stove? 
wouldn't    go    upsettmg    Aunt    Em  Keep  things  nice  and  warm  until  we 
with  anythmg  unpleasant.    Besides,  get  back,"  said  Kathy.  She  walked 
she  wanted  to  get  into  the  village  to   the   hall   closet   and   selected  a 
soon,  and  had  no  tmie  to  visit  this  jacket.    The  morning  was  cool,  with 
morning.      .  a  hint  of  rain. 
"Sit  down   and  let  Kathy  bring  ^^^^  ^'^^^^  ^'^'  ^^"^'s  cheek,  and 
you  a  hot  muffin,"  Aunt  Em  mvit-  assured  her  they  wouldn't  be  gone 
^^  too  long.      Ihe  sky  was  slate  gray 
T^  ,1     ,     1     ,    ,  1             ,1       ^  when  thev  left  the  house,  the  ocean 
Katny  looked  at  her  aunt  sharply.  ,         i.      '       i  •.            u      i  •            u 
t.,          -^     ,               ,         1    1  •    1   , r  tumultous,  whitecaps   breaking  not 
^he  sensed  somewhere  behind  the  re.        c    I  c         i.i     r>i  •      i 
f.         .       ,         .  .                               ,  hrteen  teet  trom  the  China  house, 
forced   calm   ot  her  voice,  a  great 
anxiety,     even     a     fear,     carefully  jyf ARC   drove   slowly  along   Pme 
screened.  Road.    He  gave  Kathy  a  side- 
The  young  man  sat  down,  accept-  long  look.  "That  was  clever  of  you 
ed  the  muffin  Kathy  brought,  and  to  get  me  out  of  the  house.  How- 
spread  it  lavishly  with  honey.  He  ever,  I  wasn't  going  to  say  anything 
laid  a  folded  newspaper  on  the  table,  to  excite  Miss  Em.    It's  you  I  want 
Aunt  Em  took  the  paper,  started  to  talk  to." 
to  read  from  the  back  page,  then  Kathy  nodded  her  head  in  solemn 
chuckled.  "It's  Jim/'  she  said.  "He's  agreement    and    waited    for    what 
going  to  marry  his  new  neighbor,  Marc  had  to  say. 
the  young  lady  who  raises  chickens."  "You   must  know  by  now   that 
Kathy  had  said  nothing  to  her  you're  not  really  Miss  Em's  niece," 
aunt  about  her  talk  with  Jim,  and  he  stated  bluntly.  "Your  father  was 
the  broken  engagement,  for  fear  of  Phineas  Fenton,  Jr.,  old  Phin's  eld- 
exciting  her.  er     son.     For     some     reason     they 
"Yes,  I  know,"  Kathy  said  quietly,  quarreled.  .  .  ."  His  voice  trailed  off. 
Marc  Hale  looked  first  at  Kathy  "Yes,   I  know  who   I   am,"   said 
and  then  at  her  aunt,  utter  astonish-  Kathy.    "I  found  Aunt  Em's  Bright 
ment  written  on  his  face.    "I  must  Star  several  days  ago." 
say  you're  taking  it  calmly,"  he  said.  "Aunt  Em's  Bright  Star?"  Marc 
"It's  all  right,"  Kathy  said,  almost  repeated, 
thankfully.     "Jim  and  I  had  a  long  "A    star-shaped    locket    with    my 
talk    the    other    night."     She    was  parents'  pictures  and  names,"  Kathy 
grateful  that  Jim  had  done  the  sen-  explained.    "I  knew  who  they  were 
sible  thing,  as  usual.  the  minute  I  looked  at  it."    There 
Kathy    commenced    clearing   the  was  no  joy  or  emotion  in  her  voice, 
breakfast  dishes.    "Like  to  drive  me  "I'll  tell  you  about  it  later." 
into  the  village?"  she  asked  Marc.  They  were   entering  the  village, 
It  would  be  a  way  of  getting  him  and   Kathy   directed   Marc  to  The
