[Vol44 | August 1957 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: Social]
Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 9—Families Have Problems Filder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, November 26, 1957 Objective: To illustrate the nature and extent of problems which face families of today. We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair (II Cor. 4:8). HE family today faces obstacles which threaten the very foundation of our society. Forces that scar and warp people are strong and their victims are many. A new set of living patterns finds many families illprepared to meet resulting problems. The economy of our day creates stress in family relations. Without conscientious and prayerful effort, families can easily be divided and destroyed. 'Though we are mindful of our problems, we cannot despair. Existing knowledge, however, can and must be marshalled to "retool" our thinking so that we can face and solve our problems. We must rely upon the refining influences of the home, if we would have our children walk sturdily ahead and uprightly before our Heavenly Father. With the resources at our command, it is within our power to strengthen the individual and thereby contribute to happy and_harmonious family life. 'The gospel challenges Latter-day Saints to avoid family deterioration and destruction and enables them to fashion happiness and eternal progress from the opportunities presented by the family. Some of the realities facing today's families are here set forth. An exhaustive treatment is not intended. I. The Family Time Two generations ago individuals were closely anchored to the home, where food was raised and prepared and where clothing and other items were manufactured. Parents and children worked side by side. Family chores were time-and-energy consuming. Recreation was largely self-made and involved initiative as well as group participation. 'The population of the United States was largely rural, LESSON DEPARTMENT Slowly all of this changed. The ingenuity of man brought an era of specialization which snatched from families many of the tasks they had previously performed. Labor-saving devices in the home and mechanization of the farm, with other influences, had a tendency to increase leisure time. 'The leisure did not stay. 'Today outside influences have pulled family members away from the hearth. Much of our recreation is specialized, time-consuming, and, too often, requires only passive participation with limited creative thinking. Family recreation is limited. Most families now live in urban areas. 'Travel is taking family members away from home for short and extended stays. Employment, education, and cultural activities have each taken their toll of family time. Fathers, and in some instances, mothers, work outside the home. Fortunately the effectiveness of family influence is not measured entirely by the amount of time family members spend together. 'The quality and nature of the association have the greatest bearing on its end result. In view of the above trends, will the home remain the cradle of conscience and_ virtue? What can we do to see that families spend time together? 2. Communication Media One of the distinguishing characteristics of our time is the tremendous development of mass communication media. Fortunately none of us lives in a social vacuum but we are barraged with many and varied influences which affect how 563 we think and act. Radio, television, movies, and comic books, to name a few, are of recent origin, and are a part of this new influence. The growing child of today and his parents are constantly exposed to sights and sounds undreamed of a generation ago. Much of our enjoyment and progress is a result of this development. While these sights and sounds can do good, we cannot avoid the fact that they can also be carriers of evil and sinister influences. 'This places the added responsibility upon parents to evaluate and regulate the use of these new influences in the home. 'The impact of comic books of the horror and crime type were recently the subject of an investigation by the U. S. Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee to Investigate Juvenile Delinquency. The subcommittee found legions of these magazines (they were neither books nor comic) depicting, explaining, and illustrating, in detail, virtually every form of crime and horror. In the spring of 1954, over thirty million copies of "funny books" of the crime and horror type were being printed and distributed monthly in the United States. The subcommittee observed:... This country cannot afford the calculated risk involved in feeding its children through comic books, a concentrated diet of crime, horror, and violence. There was substantial... Agreement among the experts that there may be detrimental and delinquency-producing effects upon both the emotionally disturbed child and the emotionally normal delinquent. (1) Many wholesome "funny books" 1. Interim Report of the Subcommittee to Investigate Juvenile Delinquency to the Committee on The Judiciary, U. S. Senate, 84th Congress, 1956, on Comic Books. 564 are published and available, and parents would do well to discourage children from reading the other type. Television, radio, movies, and newspapers were also found to be producing material which overemphasized crime and violence. 'The subcommittee reported: These media have a tremendous influence on the young child in his early development and that while reflecting the major attitudes of the society, they are in turn influencing, to a great degree, the attitudinal development of children. That given an emotionally stable child who has had what may be interpreted as the proper emotional relationship with his parents, this type of presentation in the mass media may have little or no effect in terms of influencing his behavior. However, given a child with a more or less undeveloped attitudinal framework, the mass media may go a long way toward providing ideas both in the development of attitudes and in predisposing the child for a certain type of behavior. (2) Parents who are mindful of our cherished principles of freedom of the press and free agency, and of the obligation to teach their children properly, will diligently thwart the degrading, stimulate the wholesome, and be very sure that their children see virtues and values without distortion. 3. An Aging Population In 1900 there were only three millon persons in the United States who were 65 years of age or over. Today there are approximately 14 million. It is estimated that by 1970 there will be 18.5 million and by the year 2000 almost 27 million persons aged 65 and over. The aged population is increasing by 1,000 every day. (3) 2. Ibid., on Motion Pictures. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 In most parts of the world, people are living longer. If you are now twenty-five years of age you can expect to live to seventy-two; if you are now forty you can expect to live past seventy-three; if you are now sixty you can expect to live past seventy-seven; and if you are sixtynine you will likely live to the age of eighty. We are forever grateful for the contributions made by the more mature among us and we can show that gratitude by recognizing them, as God intended, as individuals who have varying needs, desires, circumstances, and capacities. 'They continue to have aspirations to grow and develop. As more elderly people remain with the family, the job of planning for them and with them becomes a necessity. Can we help them as they once helped us? How and where the aged shall spend their time and whether they are happy and contented is largely the result of family decisions. 'The decisions we make may well become the patterns by which our own situation is determined when we become old. 4. Family Breakdown The increasing evidence of family breakdown is distressing. Far too many parents are failing to solve and avoid personal difficulties and are turning to divorce as the answer. Too many children find themselves in a half-parentless world and in homes where parents provide an example of quarrelling, bitterness, and distrust for children to absorb. 3. Social Security Bulletin, U. S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, August, 1956, Volume 19, No. 8. LESSON DEPARTMENT In recent years the divorce rate has increased in the United States—as well as other countries. Fortunately about sixty per cent of the divorces granted were to couples who had no children. Divorces involving children usually occur in the early years of marriage. 'I'wo-thirds of the children affected are under ten. (4) Divorce and parental desertion are increasing at an alarming rate and are now the major causes of child dependency. 'There are likely some justifiable divorces. Basically, however, marriages fail because of the failure of the individuals who marry. What can be done to stem the tide of family breakdowns? 5. Mental Illness A congressional committee, appointed to investigate the toll of major diseases, after making an exhaustive study of all health problems, concluded: There is probably no more serious problem in the health field today than that of mental illness. (5) Hospitalization for mental illness has increased sixty per cent in twenty years. This tells only part of the story. 'he wasted lives, the misery, and the unhappiness of the mentally ill and their families cannot be estimated. Fortunately, tremendous gains are currently being made by which mental illness is prevented and treated. What can we do to avoid mental illness? 6. Delinquency and Crime Crime remains one of the all-time 565 problems affecting people. 'The percentage rise in crime in _ the United States, 1950 through 1955, was three times that of the population. Crime was up twenty-six per cent while population was up nine per cent. (6) Other countries have had similar disturbing increases in juvenile delinquency and adult crime. No pat solution to crime and delinquency has been found. However, certain things are known about the problems. Human behavior ls the end result of many influences, environmental and inheritable. Action not in conformity with the accepted code of conduct is the result of multiple causes. An examunation of these hard-to-find causes often suggests treatment measures helpful in solving the problem. Until we are able to avoid the development of criminal tendencies in people, or until we are able to solve personality problems of those who commit crime, we shall not make effective inroads upon the elimination of this social ill. Crime and delinquency bring unhappiness to the individual and his family. What can we do as mothers to meet this alarming problem? 7. Economic Factors in Family Living Many problems of an economic nature strain family life today. We shall mention briefly only a few. Desertion of wives and children has resulted in the public assuming re- 4. A Chart Book, Children and Youth at the Midcentury, Midcentury White House Conference on Children and Youth, 1950. 5- Committee on Interstate & Foreign Commerce, Rep. Charles A. Wolverton, N. J., Chairman. Commonly called the Wolverton Committee. 6. Uniform Crime Reports, Volume XXVI, No. 2, Annual Bulletin, 1955. 566 Sacred Music for Ladies Three Part Choruses —_ GLORY TO GOD—Bach-Wilson.25 ane GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP PEACE OF MIND-—Stickles wu. «20 ——s IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen -.20 ar IN THY FORM—Madsen 20 — INVOCATION—Moore.20 KING OF GLORY—Parks.I.20 — LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen 20 SPIRIT OF GOD—Neidlinger 18 _ TEACH ME, O LORD—Hamblen _.20 im THY BLESSING ON THIS HOUSE, DEAR LORD—Madsen.20 a VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— ea 22 0s WHEN CHILDREN PRAY—Fenner...20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank I DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. \ I 1 I \ [) On Approval [] Charge I CL) Money Enclosed I 1 \ Name Pe errr! Address I City & State cess. <a ee ere cee ce me ee ore me ee ee ee ee ee re we ee ee ee eeJ VA [Dasnos Mie l: 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, pRovoe! Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 sponsibility. Employment often separates families. 'The cost of living, desire for material things as well as low income, often result, separately and collectively, in stress. Young couples often assume they should start out with facilities and things which their parents had only after a life of hard work. Keeping up with the Joneses is dangerous to family living. 'The desire to supplement the income of the husband, either to raise or maintain a standard of living, has resulted in many mothers leaving the home for employment. Although some mothers, of necessity, are the family breadwinners, the well-being of children should be the determining factor. Of the more than twenty-one million mothers with children under the age of eighteen years in 1949, Over four million worked outside the home. One and one-half million of these had children of preschool age. (7) Families Can Meet the Challenge It takes little imagination to realize that the home is vulnerable to attack. Latter-day Saint families face problems similar to those faced by other families. It is not intended in this lesson to suggest solutions to the problems above discussed. We must be constantly alert to the development of problems which affect the family and, once a problem is detected, our efforts should be towards solving it. Future lessons will dwell on how families can meet problems that arise. 4. A Chart Book, Children and Youth at the Midcentury, Midcentury White House Conference on Children and Youth, 1950. LESSON DEPARTMENT The task which is ours is stated in the following words: We cannot insulate our children from the uncertainties of the world in which we live or from the impact of the problems which confront us all. What we can do is to equip them to meet these problems, to do their part in the total effort, and to build up those inner resources of character which are the main strength of the American people. (8) Within the gospel is found the power to defeat and destroy unwholesome family influences. It requires more than acceptance and belief, however. We must make application of the gospel in our lives. Conscientious, prayerful effort to know and understand the gospel, and the living of it, will reduce the threat of defeat and will bring happiness and the realization of pleasant ambitions. Children will be prepared to meet squarely the temptations and problems which are theirs, and all family members will be grateful for the fruits of the gospel. Supplementary Reference 1. "Valiant Womanhood'—Vesta P. Crawford, The Relief Society Magazine, October 1955, page 660. Questions for Discussion 1. Suggest ways in which families of today could better utilize their time to spend more hours together. How can family time be used wastefully? How can the Family Hour be used to increase family solidarity? 2. Discuss wholesome I'V and _ radio programs for children and _ adolescents. Why is it desirable for parents to hear 8. President Harry S. Truman, Proceedings Midcentury White House Conference on Children and Youth, 1950. 567 and view programs preferred by their children and evaluate them together? 3. What tangible steps can be taken in our homes to offset the comic book craze? 4. Point out the recent advancements made in the treatment of mental illness. Why is greater understanding of this problem necessary for all of us? 5. Why should every parent be concerned with the problem of delinquency and crime? With the causes? ><—-- &cho Leslie S. Clark Through the fragrant dusk a veery's call Like silver rain is cast, As once we heard it, hand in hand, In an hour too dear to last. Yet, still, a single song—a heart— Can hold the past. E BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to FoO mies cscn m- 35 150 to 300 miles 00 39 300 to 600 miles 22 -0 45 ° 600 to 1000 miles 2-----.54 1000 to 1400 miles -----.---.64 1400 to 1800 miles 0 00.76 Over 1800 miles 0 0 eeceeneeeeneee.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 568 HAWAII Vida Fox Clawson is operating another of her lovely tours to HAWAII. This tour will sail on the New Matsonia on November 4, 1957. EARLY RESERVATIONS ARE ADVISABLE EUROPE Make your plans for Europe for the DEDICATION OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINT TEMPLE in England. For complete details write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EMpire 4-2017 For Relief Society and Genealogy Workers TYPEWRITING CLASSES CLASSWORK BEGINS SEPT. 9 Classes to run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction for adults who wish to use typewriting in genealogy and other Church work. Call for reservations. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 NORTH MAIN SALT LAKE CITY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Giuntheda y Can gratulatio ns One Hundred Mrs. Mary EvIzZABETH FOREMAN CALKINS Sheridan, Wyoming Ninety-nine Mrs. Annis Hutpau CuurFr Batty Pima, Arizona Ninety-eight Mrs. Harriet RANCK OLSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Brown CLark Provo, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Vicroria EsreLLA Dixon HARPER Payson, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. ANGELINE DEEM HANSEN Tremonton, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Acice Norris SEARS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. ExvizaBETH ANNIE Munns GOATES Lehi, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. ANNIE KATHERINE ERICKSON BENSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary E. Jones Ogden, Utah Mrs. ANGELINE KiInc Brooks Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Louisa A. BATEMAN Shelley, Idaho Mrs. HELENA CuHrIsTINE JOHNSON NEELEY Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Mary LeBaron Bay EMPEY Junction, Utah Mrs. CHrisTINA SINCLAIR BOWERS Nephi, Utah Mrs. ELLEN FRANCINE ROBBINS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary E. Jones Dalton Roy, Utah . Doctrine and Covenants Study Questions — wy w co This study guide, designed to assist individual or group, makes a section-bysection study of the Doctrine and Covenants. It consists of a series of questions to be considered in the reading of the text. Scores of spiritual truths are pointed up and, where possible, their application is made to everyday life. $1.50 Pastichea ty QESCELT DORE ceBe aes 2. Doctrine and Covenants and Pearl of Great Price Large Print Edition Every LDS family will want this large print edition in the family library It makes for easier reading—has durable cloth binding. $3.00 "Deseret: 44 East South Temple'.: I DESERET BOOK COMPANY —. East South Temple 3. Discourses of the =I si. Frs, ser* sep I h. I Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money r Prophet Josep Smith I order ( ) charge to my account for the encircled (num I Compiled by ALMA P. BURTON re _- > 3 I The "best" from the Prophet Jo- — I I seph Smith's utterances have been I Nome I culled from a wealth of material I and presented in unique form. — I Address.. Csuov:-swsvs-susnvsuissnnunsnunnnsonann I Here, in one brief volume, you I I will gain a more perfect underi Ce —_— State standing of the Prophet and the Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax I revelations he received. $3.00 QE ee I Happy Families Do Things TOGETHER *Round-and-'round and up-and-down... Makes you dizzy just watching, doesn't it? This feeling can be fun during an occasional visit to the amusement park, but Do you sometimes feel the same way around bill-paying time every month... When the dollars come in and go right out again, and you just never seem to be getting ahead? Beneficial's "Planned Futures' gives you that important feeling of "getting ahead." Those financial circles can be straightened out to chart a beautifully straight course to a Planned Future providing the money you'll want for your children's education, for travel and fun, for your own retirement. Your Beneficial Life agent can help you plan to save money regularly as you can best afford, and gain that allimportant feeling of "getting ahead." Call him soon.. Send today for inos formative folder on ''Planned Futures."' l I I BENEFICIAL LIFE I I Susurance Company I I I -----—-—-—-—-—-—-------------} BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Beneficial Building Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me a copy of your free folder, 'Planned Futures.'' David O. McKay, Pres.