[Vol44 | August 1957 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
South Australian Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE South Australian Mission was formed on July 3, 1955, at a conference of saints and missionaries at Melbourne, held under the direction of Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve. Elder Romney had made the journey from Salt Lake City for the purpose of dividing the Australian Mission. The new mission comprises the states of Victoria, South Australia, West Australia, and 'Tasmania, with a Church membership of approximately 1,500 persons and an over-all population of about 5,000,000. "lhomas Sanford Bingham was sustained as the first president. Shortly after he was installed as mission president, President Bingham chose as his counselors, Elders Edward Armstrong Johnson and Percival W. F. Davis. He also purchased for the Church a new mission home, located at 189 Koo Yong Road, 'Toorak S. E.., Victoria. The gospel had been taught in Australia over one hundred years before the mission was divided. As early as 1840, a young Elder from England, William Barrett, a sailor on a ship plying between England and Australia, delivered tracts in Sidney and attempted to make converts. In 1842, Andrew Anderson, a convert from Scotland, who had moved to Australia, baptized a few members in Sydney, where he had located. 'Then, in 1851, the Australian Mission was organized, with Elder John Murdock of Lehi, Utah, as the first president. The missionary work has continued since that time. Photograph submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham CENTENARY REGATTA FROM THE AIR, IHWOBART, TASMANTA Page 496 THE SOUTH AUSTRALIAN MISSION 497 Australian National Travel Association Photegraph submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham KOALAS, LONE PINE FAUNA RESERVE, AUSTRALIA Through the years many of the converts made in Australia have emigrated to America and joined the saints in the valleys of the mountains. With the building of the new Latter-day Saint temple in New Zealand, it is thought that more of the members in the South Pacific missions will remain permanently in their homelands. Elder Hugh B. Brown, Assistant to the 'Twelve, accompanied by Mrs. Brown, arrived in Melbourne on January 6, 1957, to make a tour of the South Australian Mission, with President and Mrs. Bingham. 'They visited the principal branches of the Church and held many meetings. Everywhere he went Elder Brown delivered inspiring and faith promoting messages and the saints, missionaries, and friends profited by his visit. Ten Relief Society organizations, with 177 members, were reported in December 1956. Adelphia D. Bingham presides over the South Australian Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Swan River From King's Park, Perth, Western Australia, was submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham, President, South Australian Mission Relief Society. See also "Recipes From the South Australian Mission," page 511. Society Sonnets Frances C. Yost ARAH Barnes listened attentively to the literature lesson given by Sister Nellie Morris. "It is generally agreed that no other writer was so universal, so timeless, so full of all kinds of wisdom and so rich in beauty, as was Shakespeare." Sister Morris smiled at her class of sisters. It seemed to Sarah Barnes that the world of literature opened for her here at these meetings each month. 'They seemed to fill the abyss of her meager education. She loved to read Shakespeare's plays and his poems. Why, Sarah thought, his sonnets are out of this world. If I could write a sonnet like one of his! Sarah wished she weren't so timid. Why, even when she had a good thought, even when she knew the answer, and no one else did, she was too timid to raise her hand and participate. What was Sister Morris, the literature teacher, saying? "Now, for a special assignment for next month, I want each of you to try to write a sonnet." A groan rippled through the class of Relief Society sisters, followed by a mild chuckle. But Sister Morris, always in command of any situation, spoke, "Now mind you, I said try. Perhaps all of you won't be successful, but I hope you are. At any rate, I know of no better way for a person to appreciate the many wonderful sonnets Shakespeare has written, than to try to write one. Page 498 "Now, to help you carry out this assignment, I'm going to take a few minutes and here, on the board, outline the pattern of a sonnet, and give you some tips, which should make it easier for you. "First, a sonnet has fourteen lines, and it is written in pentameter. Can someone explain what pentameter means?" Sister Morris smiled helpfully. Her method of teaching was always by class participation. At first Sarah Barnes didn't recognize the word. She had always thought the pronunciation was penta-meter. But Sister Morris, who was so well grounded in English, pronounced it pentam-eter. So it surely was correct that way. 'That was the nice thing about Relief Society, you could learn things here that you would never learn at home, studying alone. Sarah wanted to raise her hand and tell the group that pentameter meant five feet to a line. She knew it was right, but she just couldn't make her hand go up, or her voice stay calm enough to speak. She wished she weren't so timid, when all of these sisters were her dear friends. She looked about. Sister Vera Means had raised her hand. "Sister Means, will what pentameter means?" Morris spoke kindly. "It means five feet to a line. A foot in poetry is much like a bar in music, though the lines of course, are imaginary,' Vera Means explained. You tell us Sister SOCIETY SONNETS "Yes, that is correct, five feet to each line," Sister Morris repeated. Then, turning to the blackboard, she wrote the first line from one of Shakespeare's sonnets. When forty winters shall besiege thy brow. "Now, we'll use this for an example. Will someone step to the blackboard and mark this line of poetry off in pentameter?" Sister Morris smiled as she challenged them. Sarah Barnes studied the line carefully. She would mark the first line through the center of forty; the second through the center of winters; the third after shall; and the fourth after besiege. But she couldn't raise her hand to answer the question, much less walk to the front of the room, pick up the chalk, and mark the meter in the line. She glanced about the room. Sister Pearl Moffett, with a little embarrassed laugh, walked to the blackboard, and marked it off just as Sarah. Barnes had figured it should be. "That's just fine," Sister Morris complimented. "Now we have the line marked off in meter. Let's talk about accenting syllables. Words are like children, they have their tender places, which are not meant for spanking, such as the ears. We must tap them lightly in some places and accent them harder in others." HE sisters were enjoying the humor of Sister Morris. 'Then she continued: "Words have proper places for accenting, and we must never line them up in poetry, so they will be accented improperly. Now let's study this line for accent." 499 Sarah Barnes studied the line for awhile. She even repeated it in her mind: When forty winters shall besiege thy brow. 'The accents would, of course, fall on: for, win, shall, siege, brow. "It's easy, sisters,' Sister Morris encouraged. She looked about the room. Her eyes fell on Sarah Barnes. She must have seen her lips forming the accented syllables. "Tm sure you can do this, Sister Barnes. You accent your own words so well." Nellie Morris handed the chalk to Sarah Barnes, saying: "Just draw a line like this, over the accented syllables." Sarah Barnes was glad she had worn her nice suit today, if she was to stand in front of the ladies. She swallowed part of her timidity, and walked to the board and put the same diagonal accent line Sister Morris had used over: for, win, shall, siege, and brow. "Perfect," Sister Morris beamed. "Now let's all scan this line. That is, let's te-tum it." Sister Morris laughed, and her laughter was catching. She had the ladies enjoying their lesson in poetry. "Here goes, put the stress on tum—te-tum, tetum, te-tum, te-tum, te-tum. "When forty winters shall besiege thy brow.' "Now, the easy thing about a sonnet is that every line is the same as far as accent and meter go. So, instead of it being hard to write a sonnet, it is really quite easy when you get the idea." Sister Morris smiled encouragement. Sarah Barnes, watching her, thought, yes, it is easy if one has as fine an education as Sister Morris. 500 "Now," continued Sister Morris, "let's scan this whole poem of Shakespeare's. 'This is one of my favorites, even though it isn't quoted as widely as others." Her voice was excellent, in diction, emphasis, and interest. Sarah loved to hear Sister Morris read poetry.