[Vol44 | August 1957 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Edwards]
Work ITleeting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2—Increasing Our Standard of Living Elder William F. Edwards For Tuesday, November 12, 1957 Objective: To achieve a higher standard of living, to obtain more of the important things in life, without an increase in family income. The Purpose of Budgets Budgeting in its true sense is a method of estimating ahead how to spend one's income in order to receive the greatest values. 'The first requirement is to approach the problem with a mind as open and rational as that with which a good scientist undertakes his studies. Can I say, "My house is a house of order'? Can I say, if a housewife, that I give the same care and thought to determining how to spend our income as my husband gives to his work in order to earn the income? As it is true that the cost of money is determined by what it takes to earn it, so it is true that the value of money is determined by how we use it, Wise Counsel Benjamin Franklin caught the vision of wise budget planning when he observed: There are two ways of being happy: We may either diminish our wants or augment our means — either will do — the result is the same; and it is for each man to decide for himself, and do that which happens to be the easiest. If you are idle or sick or poor, however hard it may be to diminish your wants, it will be harder to augment your means. If you are active and prosperous or young or in good health, it may be easier for you to augment your means than to diminish your wants. But if you are wise, you will do both at the same time, young or old, rich or poor, sick or well; and if you are very wise, you will do both in such a way as to augment the general happiness of society. Brigham Young gave frequent advice about handling personal fnances: LESSON DEPARTMENT If you cannot obtain all you wish for today, learn to do without that which you cannot purchase and pay for;... Bring your minds into subjection that you must and will live within your means. How to Become Strong The truth of such counsel as that given by Brigham Young is readily apparent, but for many it is hard to live by. But what good thing ls not hard to acquire? We become strong by overcoming obstacles. 'Uhe story of building the Salt Lake Temple, for example, is a story of achieving the impossible, except for a determined people who were willing to pay the price of doing what was right. Items Every Latter-day Saint Budget Should Contain 1. TITHING AND OTHER CHURCH CONTRIBUTIONS: Church expenses is an item not entirely peculiar to Latter-day Saints. Every well-considered family budget book makes provision for this item. The difference is that Latter-day Saints are commanded to pay their tithes and offerings. For members of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints these appropriately come first. 'They bring eternal blessings and joys. It is expected that honest and faithful people will return to the Lord his ten per cent and in addition make the other contributions needed to carry out his purposes for their good (Edwards, William F.: The Relief Society Magazine, August 1953, page 501). I do not suppose for a moment, that there is a person in this Church, who is unacquainted with the duty of paying tithing, neither is it necessary to have revelation every year upon this subject. There is the Law—pay one-tenth (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 174). 553 2. TAXES AND OTHER Civic EXPENSES AND CONTRIBUTIONS: The services rendered by governments are indispensable to modern progressive living. We should be good members of society by supporting, financially and otherwise, praiseworthy activities. In this spirit, we should pay our taxes and other assessments and allocate some money for contributions to worthy programs. 3. HEALTH PROTECTION: The Lord has made it clear that our bodies are sacred: If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are (I Cor. 3:17). Thus, we are each charged with the responsibility of keeping our bodies as clean and healthy as possible. It is important that some funds be earmarked for periodic dental work, health examinations, medicine and medical attention for munor ailments. 'he best and cheapest care is preventive. When available at a reasonable cost, some people will find it advisable to carry a health insurance policy covering extraordinary expenses in connection with medical attention. 4. EMERGENCY SAVING: Into every life come emergencies, such as illness, unemployment, accidents, old age, and death, and they cost money. It is a family's responsibility to provide for these, even if it necessitates certain immediate sacrifices. In accordance with the Welfare Program, part of the emer- 554 gency savings could be held in the form of food and other necessities of life. Each individual or family should determine the appropriate amount to have on hand for this purpose. If a man does not provide for his children, if he does not provide for all those dependent upon him, and if he has not that vision of conditions to come, and that care for the days that have not yet dawned, which we sum up in the whole idea of thrift and saving, then he has not opened his eyes to any adequate conception of human life. We are in this world to provide not for ourselves, but for others, and that is the basis of economy (Woodrow Wilson). 5. Lire INsurANCE: Likewise, no head of a family is doing his duty to his family unless he carries a reasonable amount of life insurance for their protection. Nothing is as certain as death, yet nothing is more uncertain than the time of death (Legal Proverb). 6. Foop 7. CLOTHING 8. SHELTER AND HoME 9. Oruer Irems Posstnty VARYING Wir EAcu FAMILY Group discussion should develop important considerations regarding each of these items. A group of Relief Society sisters can sit as a group of experts — then they approach these subjects objectively and critically. 10. WorkING F unpD: After allowance for all of the areas of expenses previously discussed, there should remain a balance which might be called the Working Fund. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 The usage of this fund is an individual problem, each family doing what will give them the greatest satisfaction. It should certainly be the aim in one's financial program to make this fund as large as possible, since it plays such an important part in one's living more abundantly. Under Latter-day Saint philosophy, an adequate part of this fund should be used for investment purposes beyond that contemplated with "Emergency Savings." 'There is nothing that leads to independence of thought and action quite as much as economic independence. And by right living this independence is within the grasp of most members of our group. Use just enough of your earnings to make your bodies and your families happy and comfortable, and save the residue (Brigham Young). Of probably even greater importance than monetary savings under our teachings, however, is the part that should be used for selfimprovement and advancement, including education in all its proper forms. The first great principle that ought to occupy the attention of mankind, that should be understood by the children and the adults, and which is the mainspring of all action... Is the principle of improvement. We cannot trust to the certainty of mortal possessions; they are transitory and a dependence upon them will plunge into hopeless disappointment all those who trust in them (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 306). This fund will, also, in individual instances, have to help to provide LESSON DEPARTMENT for the support of fathers, mothers, brothers, and sisters who are living elsewhere. By placing this last, we do not mean to lessen its importance. To those who thus contribute to the support of others, it is an item second to none in importance—unless it be the item of tithing. 'This is a way of life accepted by the membership of the Church in general in accordance with the teachings of ancient and modern prophets. 395 The intent in this lesson is to outline some of the more important areas of expenditures in the hope of helping each one to examine his own position with the objective of learning how to put first things first so that the more important things will be accomplished and_ those neglected will be the least important. Wise budget planning will contribute to more abundant living; it will make possible a higher standard of living without an increase in family income. + ol iterature — Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 10—Othello, The Moor of Venice Elder Briant S. Jacobs Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948 For Tuesday, November 19, 1957 Objective: To review and consider pride, jealousy, and passion as tools of selfdestruction, through re-experiencing this artistic record of life's truths. IKE, Shakespeare's other best plays, Othello creates its own personality and power. 'Therefore, to compare it with other plays in terms of greatness or majesty is as mysterious a process as an attempted dissection of life itself. As a drama it ls perfectly constructed, and of all Shakespeare's tragedies it is most often successfully acted. Words, images, symbols, and actions of the play complement each other. Herein are no poetic flights for their own sakes; every word carries its own weight, and all parts contribute to the irresistible cumulation of purpose and theme. Thus, this tragedy of jealousy and haste becomes for each of us here and now a lived experience as personal as our own inner hearts. Othello's self-knowledge is accurate when he says early in the play:... Rude am I in my speech, And little blest with the soft phrase of peace. I. 3. 81-82 The poetry in Othello is not as lofty and noble as that found in Hamlet and King Lear; instead it is restrained, oftentimes more _pertinent than inspiring. 'Therefore, fewer lines are commonly lifted from 556 its pages to be quoted apart from the play. Even so, such quotes as the following are too useful to be ignored: O thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call thee devil! Il. 3. 282-284 that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains! That we should, with joy, pleasance, revel, and applause, transform ourselves into beasts! II. 3. 291-294 The robbed that smiles steals something from the thief. I. 3. 208 Men's natures wrangle with inferior things, Though great ones are their object.... IIT. 4. 144-145 Trifles light as air ) Are to the jealous confirmations strong As proofs of Holy Writ. IIT. 3. 322-324 How poor are they that have not patience! What wound did ever heal but by degrees? Il. 3. 376-377 Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate jewel of their souls. Who steals my purse steals trash—'tis something, nothing, "Twas mine, tis his, and has been slave to thousands— But he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him And makes me poor indeed. II]. 3. 155-161 Although wellnigh matchless in beauty and pure trust and innocence, even Desdemona's final words speak with ample power only when contained within the play itself. Here, more than in many of Shakespeare's plays, we need all if we are to get any, so tight-knit is its construction, so many layered the overRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 tones radiating from one character or scene to diffuse influence to all others. Although Hamlet excells Othello in intellectual keenness and revelation of inner conflict, just as Macbeth and King Lear contain greater depth, this play might well be regarded as Shakespeare's most warmly human and most natural tragedy. It contains neither ghosts, witches, portents of death, nor a sense of fulfilling destiny, nor a resolving of epic issues. 'The scene is laid entirely within the human heart, where good and evil grapple together to win Othello's soul. At its core it is a play of intrigue and, since its purpose is merely to present the workings of love and evil, it never attempts to define or explain these universally dominant yet mysterious forces. While the ingredients of the play are as timeless as humanity itself— ambition, pride, importance, love, rashness, honor, innocence, integrity —predominantly the play is a tragedy of jealousy, that "... Green-eyed monster which doth mock the meat it feeds on " (III. 3. 166). Also, in the incompleteness of the flawless love between Othello and Desdemona, it forces us to admit how isolated each of us is from fellows, lovers, indeed our own soul mates. How beautifully Desdemona and Otheilo blend into one; how purely they fulfill each in the other. And yet in this blissful unity how devastatingly yawns the green gap between them. Truly this is a play of destruction: jealousy is the destroyer; love, the destroyed. And these inner workings we witness in horror and sympa- LESSON DEPARTMENT thetic suffering, since beneath the s