	[S. W. RICHARDS.]
	FAMILY relations! What of them:
Much every way. In them are embodied
all hopes worth cherishing:—all joys worth
contemplating:—all loves that are enduring;
and all labors that shall determine and
secure the desired reward of everlasting
lives, and the exaltations to which those
lives are lawful heirs.
	It is in these relations the soul of man
finds its powers of development. Its loves,
its sympathies, its tenderest emotions, pas-
sion subdued and the natural man putting
on the divinity of the Gods; all are found
deeply rooted and flourishing in their
growth, where family ties bind soul to soul
and two are one.
	The maiden of tender years looks for-
ward to the anticipated time when the joys
of wedded life shall be hers. The manly
youth who would honor the laws of his be-
ing, seeks most reverently the aid of his
appointed "help meet" in the relation named;
and with their loves as firmly joined as
their hands and hearts, they enter upon a
new life—a life of heaven’s ordaining.
	This relation ordained of God for man,
is of necessity as eternal as the being by
whom it was ordained and appointed unto
him; and eternal honors, obligations, and
responsibilities, are necessarily attached to
and grow out of it.
	True father hood and mother hood may
be secured in this relation, by which man
puts on the character of God, his father;
even Him who is the father of us all: and
may in time like one of old who was in the
image of God think it not robbery to be equal
with God: and why not? From this re-
lation springs the increase that grows into
kingdoms; and those kingdoms in the pro-
gress of their development will demand
thrones, principalities and powers;—the
same position and powers as are now ascrib-
ed to our heavenly Father, and by virtue
of which He is God.
	In tracing the inevitable results of this
relation, they lead us not only to divinity
but to infinitude, to the eternal, the never
ending and must have worlds on worlds to
meet the demands of eternal increase.
	These considerations growing out of the
family relation afford unmistakable evidence
that man’s mission to earth is of no vain
import. In it is involved all that is manly,
angelic and Godly and demands the first,
highest and holiest, endeavors of those who
engage therein. The motives, and every
incentive on the part of the actors, must
be strictly in conformity with the law of
God. These eternal consequences can
only result from an eternal covenant of
union, for time and for all eternity; and
that covenant sealed by an everlasting
priesthood which is without beginning of
days or end of years; an authority that is
not affected by the limits of time but like
God, is from everlasting to everlasting, or
in other words—was before time and will

[Column 2]
be after time shall have ceased, and must
ever continue in the midst of an endless
increase.
	Any young man who would attempt to
build his house and home upon any other
foundation, would not be worthy of the love,
hand and heart, of one of the fair daughters
of God.
	Here in this relation are found all the en-
dearments lingering in those heavenly
words of Mother, Home and Heaven, in
which are found all that is Sacred lova-
ble or can be desired by any soul to which
the spirit of God giveth understanding.
	The youth of Zion who will give heed to
these important truths, need never be
found in the condition those were to whom
the Apostle Paul was speaking, when he
told them the time was short when they
who had wives should be as though they
had none; and as our fathers and mothers
have been who passed from earth before the
Priesthood came to them, and they were
taught the eternity of God’s ways. Their
covenants of marriage were only for time;
and when either party had passed its portals
the covenant and all its consequences came
to an end. No possible hope of its renewal
lingered with them by which the powers
and blessings of a reunion should be theirs
in and after the resurrection. There were
no eternal considerations attached to their
covenant. It was only made to have force
’till death should separate and death has
gloried in its power of divorce, rending a-
sunder those ties designed to be like Him
who ordained them—eternal and everlasting;
and what is more terrible, if anything can
be more so, is the fact that the increase
under such a covenant, the children of
such a union are like the parents, without
any claim of relationship beyond the bounds
of time: they remain singly and alone and
are as the angels, ministering for others who
have secured their kingdoms, and are rulers
in the midst of Deities.
	“That kingdoms and thrones to God belong,
	Is truth re-echoed in our song,
	All those below with those above,
	Shall join the chorus ‘God is Love.’
	All knees must bow and tongues confess,
	To Christ the son of righteousness.”
	For the kingdoms of this world shall be-
come those of our Lord and Christ. Man,
in his development and increase, has pro-
duced many of them and will continue so
to do until they become innumerable to
man.
	Our father Abraham was assured that
his seed should be more in number than
the sands of the sea shore, or even the dust
of the earth; and many should be made
kings and priests to reign over them.
	In all these grand developments of in-
crease the man is not without the woman.
There is no creative power in the one with-
out the other. Neither can ever be like
God without the other. The history of the
race and the promises of God are alike to
all, and the destiny of the one is that of the
other.
	Now let the daughters of Zion who are
the daughters of God, give heed to their
ways that they be not found allied to any
one only by virtue of an everlasting cove-
nant, confirmed and sealed by an everlast-
ing priesthood; lest their lives be in vain,
their love become hate and their hopes
perish as all things must that are only of the
earth; and with the earth must pass away.
While in this life, by virtue of covenant
and ordinance, secure the right to inherit
all desired blessings in the life to come.


