and sorrow. We can never erase from
memory her last visit to this office, the day
before she left the City upon her last mis-
sion to the sisters.
	Elizabeth Howard's maiden name was
Anderson, her parents were Robert and
Lucretia Anderson, and she was born at
Carlow, Carlow county, Ireland, July 12,
1823. Mrs. Howard's father was a reform-
er, a man of means and influence in his
country, and suggested several govern-

[Column 2]
mental and social innovations that were
afterwards adopted by the government and
the people. Her parents were Presbyteri-
ans, and she was brought up strictly in that
faith. She was married to Wm. Howard,
the eldest son of Scott and Catharine How-
ard, June 9. 1841, In 1851 she heard of 
the Gospel and embraced it and came to
America in 1853 with her husband and
family, arriving in Utah in September of
the same year, residing the first few years
in the thirteenth ward in this city. 
When the Relief Society was organized 
in Big Cottonwood she was chosen secre-
tary, which office she filled until she ac-
companied her husband on a mission to
England in 1868. During her sojourn in
Great Britain she was frequently called up-
on to speak upon the principles of the Gos-
pel and subjects of that nature. Divines
and men of learning found her quite equal
to answer them on every point, and her
part of the mission had often been spoken
of as very creditable and important, for it
was at a time when women had scarcely
been heard to speak publicly on our faith
except at home. 
When President Brigham Young about
twenty-four or twenty-five years ago called
upon the women of Zion to go out as
missionaries among the women in the
several Stakes of Zion, Mrs. Howard was
one of the first to act in this capacity, and
from that time she has been diligent in
season and out of season in all kinds of
weather, no matter how hard the journey
or how rough the roads, she always went
with the same cheerful, good spirit and
seemed particularly blest in the labors that
fell to her to perform.
	In 1871 Mrs. Howard was chosen
counselor to Mrs. M. Isabella Horne in the
General Retrenchment Association, in place
of Mrs. M. A. Smoot, who had moved to
Provo; soon after she was elected president
of the Relief Society of Big Cottonwood
ward, but resigned a few years ago on ac-
count of other duties. When the Relief
Society of Salt Lake stake was organized
Mrs. Howard was appointed secretary,
which position she held at the time of her
demise.
	When the Deseret Hospital was establish-
ed in May 1882, Mrs. Howard was appoint-
ed Chairman of the Visiting Committee and
was very efficient in that work. At the 
time of the reorganization of the Board of
Directors April 1884, Mrs. Howard was
elected Assistant Secretary and Treasurer,
of the Deseret Hospital which office she oc-
cupied at the time of her decrease.
Mrs. Howard was for one year, from
October, 1891, to October 1892, president
of the Woman's Suffrage association of
Salt Lake county. She has traveled very 
extensively in the interest of woman's
work from the time this sort of missionary
work commenced, and was a very sincere
and earnest laborer in all these important
directions. She was an impressive and
entertaining speaker, had an excellent
voice and was never at a loss for words,and
wherever she went she was heartily
welcomed and infused an element of cheer-
fulness by her buoyant spirits and whole-
souled manner.
	The Howard home at Big Cottonwood
has been for years a gathering place for old
and young on all sorts of festive occasions,
Mrs. Howard being a charming and genial
hostess, young people and old people shared
equally in her hospitality, in fact she was a
universal favorite.


Mrs. Howard was the mother of ten
children, eight of whom survive her, five
sons and three daughters, over seventy
grandchildren and two or three great grand-
children she also leaves two sisters to
mourn her loss, which will be severely felt
by them, as she was a most affectionate
and devoted mother, sister, friend and
counselor. Mrs. Howard was a woman
of magnificent presence, brilliant, witty,
winning and attractive, she will be greatly
missed among the visiting sisters, for she
was always on hand to perform the duties
assigned to her, undertaking the most
arduous journeys in all kinds of weather.
Blessed be her memory forevermore!
	The funeral of Mrs. Howard was held in
the Assembly Hall in this City, the hall
was beautifully draped in white, the casket
was white, and everything bespoke purity,
emblematic of the life upon which her
spirit had entered.
	On the stand were a number of ladies
her associates and friends, Mesdames Z. D.
H. Young, M. I. Horne, B. W. Smith, J.
S. Richards, E. B. Wells.  President
Angus M. Cannon presided, Presidents J.
F. Smith, F. D. Richards, J. T. D McAllister
J. E. Taylor and C. W. Penrose, Bishop O.
F. Whitney, Bishop Halliday, of American
Fork, also Bishop D. B. Brinton of Big
Cottonwood Ward where Mrs. Howard
had resided for many years were upon the
stand.  The mourners were seated directly
in front and near the casket which contain-
ed the mortal remains of the one so dearly
beloved by them all.
	The exercises opened with the hymn,
	"O my Father thou that dwellest,"
by the Tabernacle Choir, prayer by Presi-
dent Mc'Allister singing again, the old
hymn from Pope's ode entitled "The Dying
Christian,"
	"Vital spark of heavenly flame,
	Quite, Oh! quit this mortal frame,"
After the music ceased President Joseph F.
Smith delivered an appropriate discourse,
dwelling upon the glorious hopes of the
Resurrection which the Gospel opens to the
minds of the Latter day Saints, and paying
a glowing tribute to the virtues of the
deceased in whose honor the people had
assembled.
	The other speakers were Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne President of the Relief Society of
Salt Lake Stake of which organization Mrs.
Howard was Secretary, Mrs. Z. D. H.
Young General President of the Relief
Society throughout the Church and her
Counselors Bathsheba W. Smith and Jane S.
Richards who each spoke in terms of ap-
preciation and of love and praise of the
dear one just taken away in the midst of
her labors. Bishop Brinton made a few ex-
cellent remarks also Bishop Halliday who
had been an intimate friend in a brotherly
sense and who was much affected in parting
from her, his words found voice in every
heart and his meed of praise was very ten-
der and emotional.
	President Angus M. Cannon made the
closing address in which he congratulated
Sister Howard and those to whom she was
connected, and exhorted her children to
emulate her noble example and never
swerve from the path which she had trod,
gave good advice and spoke eloquently of
her virtues and lovely attributes of charact-
er. The hymn,
	"Unveil they bosom faithful tomb."
was sung to the, "Dead march in Saul"
benediction was pronounced by Apostle F.
D. Richards.


