SOLILIQUY.

[On beholding the remains of our beloved and
widely esteemed friend the late Elizabeth
Howard.]
MY lov'd congenial friend and art thou dead?
	And shall we hear thy cheery voice no more,
Has thy endearing Spirit home-ward sped;
Or has thy last "Good-bye" indeed been said,
	Can the companionship of years be o'er?
So long thy staunch affection's strengthen'd me
How could my heart, do less than cling to thee?
Oh! do mine eyes hehold thee stretch'd and low,
	Who lately was so full of vigorous life, 
And buoyancy, that had to overflow,
And sympathies that set our hearts aglow,
	And kindly wit, and sterling virtues rife?
Where is the winning smile, the gladsome grace
The cordial soul, that beautified thy face?
My friend I call thee, yet in truth I ought-
	To know thou wert the friend of many more;
With such compassion was thy bosom fraught-
So many joys and griefs to thee were brought-
	Thy generous nature—was an open door;
Within thine ample heart, was always space—
For numerous friends, to have a resting place.
Nor can we sense, how much we’ll miss thee yet;
	This sudden stroke, we scarcely comprehend,
And fain we would awhile our loss forget—
In deference to thine orphan’d ones regret—
	Who mourn, their mother, counselor,
	 and friend!
Oh! that we could some healing balm impart—
To strengthen or to soothe, each sadden’d heart.
Methinks if I could hear thy kindly voice,
	That to thy children thou would’st bid me say
“Let not your hearts be troubled,” but r ejoice,
Death sent a messenger,so swift and choice,
	And painlessly your mother passd away:
And instantly on her enraptur’d sight—
Hurst the supernal regions of delight.
A happy change, (my friend) it was for thee,
	Yea, blest are all who over death prevail.
But ’tis the nature of humanity—
To mourn the absent lov’d ones specially,
	And long to lift the intervening veil,
That most effectually conceals from view
Departed ones, the loving and the true.
Patience becomes us all who yet remain,
	Who still must bear life’s burdens day by day,
Who needs must struggle, seemingly in vain


And often brook unmerited disdain.
	Striving withal to walk the narrow way
Hoping through much endurance to be free,
And o’er the grave to gain the victory.
Well might we envy all who’ve “fought the fight.
	And kept the faith” and laid their bodies down
Who’ve pass’d the pearly gates and earn’d the
	right—
To be arrayed in regal robes of white
	And wear triumphantly the lustrous crown, 
And swell the hallelujahs of the blest
Whose works do follow them to realms of rest
But very soon, yea, in a little while,
	The span allotted us will be complete, 
Oh! fit us Lord, by each uplifting trial—
To enter in where nothing can defile
	To courts eternal, ‘Where the old friends meet”
And where forever freed from death’s embrace,
Congenial souls commingle face to face.
