	RUBY LAMONT.


[Column 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS.
	IT has been a very long, tedious winter
and one grows tired even of the cheery fire
and the long evenings when the storm
blows out side and we gather round the
hearth, and eat pop-corn and molasses
candy and tell stories and sing songs, for
winter has trespassed so far on to the would
be spring time that, in truth, the pop-corn
is gone, the molasses jug is empty and the
stock of stories and songs are well nigh ex-
hausted and we long for the spring and the
return of the birds, that new songs may be
sung, new stories learned, new crops raised
to replenish the stores for another winter.
	So it is, one always seeks and longs for
change. Are we never satisfied? The
wealthy seek more wealth, the wise more
wisdom and it is better so. How dull the
world would be, if all were content to sit
right down and take life as it is, without
trying to change. There then would be no
advancement. no improvement but a never

[Column 2]
ceasing sameness; and it makes one shud-
der to think of such monotony. It is this
desire for constant change that broadens the
mind, creates ideas, strengthens the body
and develops the soul.
	I wonder if any of us realize how much
happiness there is in this world after all, we
read so much about sorrow and poverty
and the great institutions erected for the
benefit of the suffering, that one almost
feels that it is indeed a "sorrowing world"
and yet even in the humblest corners, and
poorest quarters there is happiness. It is
not half such a bad world after all. It is
the spirit of the world's inhabitants that
make it good or bad. I know a woman
who is very wealthy and lives in a grand
home with every luxury, who longs at
times, with tears in her eyes and a trembling
heart for a dear little home she knew in
child-hood, where the wind blew through
the cracks and the frugal supper of bread
and milk prepared by the little mother
would be far sweeter now, than the elegant
course dinner prepared by her trained ser-
vants, many of us are the same, we dream of
those humble little homes of our child-
hood and think them almost heaven if
those homes of the past were so happy for
us, why do we presume that the humble
homes of today are not happy, for those
who own them, if the spirit desires hap-
piness it can find it in the humblest home as
well as in the grandest. It is not the set-
ting of the gem that renders it brilliant, it
is the gem that adorns the setting. The
marguerite is as white and beautiful in its
native fields as in the conservatories of the
palace. Improvement and advancement
are gained more readily by a happy spirit
and changes for the better come to those
who wait and work not to those who wait
and idle.
	Work, that's the word and that's what
brings true happiness, if among the poor
there is so much sorrow, is it not because
they have no employment? True charity
is to give employment and let each one
earn his reward, then there is no dependence
and the independent sonl is certainly the
happiest.
	It is not the idle man who becomes great.
When I was a child I used to think that
geniuses never worked, now I know they
are the hardest workers. I thought that
Burns could write his poems without an
effort and never needed to study or work
to gain the praise of the world, but after-
wards learned he had a pretty hard time
to gain that praise, and after his hard daily
toil spent many hours studying how to stamp
his genius on the world.
	I believed that writers could sit down and
write novels without any trouble at all
imagine my surprise when I read that Lew
Wallace was seven years writing "Ben
Hur" and yet the work is worth those
seven years labor and the author's genius
shines through every page. God bestows
gifts upon us but leaves us to employ those
gifts ourselves. No matter how much
native genius a man may have, it is his
work in bringing it forth that makes him


[Column 1]﻿ 
great. An idle genius makes the man no
better than no genius at all.

	The readers of the EXPONENT we know
are mostly mothers and wives, who have
so many cares connected with those loved
offices that little time is allowed them for
reading, and what a sweet rest it is some-
times when the baby is being nursed to
sleep, to pick up the paper and read some
bright notes about what other women are
doing or perhaps read in the meantime
something about the home decoration, the
table setting—the nursery, the kitchen, the
laundry, and thus many little items may be
learned in a few moments to lighten the
labor and brighten the home. A young
woman once said to me, "I spent so many
dollars and a number of long afternoons
attending a cooking school and after all the
things I learned never amounted to much I
find my own kitchen the best cooking
school in the world," and of course the
remark was true just as she might spend as
many dollars taking music lessons, and
then find her piano the best professor after
all. It is the practice that makes perfect,
and in order to cook meats, make light bread
delicious desserts one must have practice
and a great deal of it. The cooking school
must be considered only as the preceptor,
but do you know my dear readers that these
schools are now quite a fad among fashion-
able women and in the large cities east, the
beautiful parlors of the most wealthy wo-
men are used as lecture rooms, where a most
proficient house keeper tells her lady friendt
how to concoct dainty and savory dishes
for their tables: now surely time is not
wasted, on these afternoons, not if the
listeners go home and prepare these dishes
themselves, in fact is it not rather a profit-
able way of being sociable with one's friends
a pleasant afternoon together and something
learned besides?
	The other day I saw some very handsome
portieres now you know when the idea of
hanging curtains over the door way first
came out I was so charmed, but goodness
who could afford them certainly only the
rich for they were always of such heavy
and expensive material that the doorways
of most homes, where the income was only
moderate had to go uncurtained but these
pretty portieres, solved the problem; they
were not at all expensive made only of blue
demin so prettily decorated with a scroll
pattern of white braid. They hung over
the door entering the dining room from the
parlor and a table-cover of the same
material and pattern made the room look
quite stylish and pretty. Of course house
plants always adorn a dining room and a few
cut flowers on the table, or a blooming plant
with the pot neatly covered with white
paper wonderfully enhances the appearance
of the table.
	Among the recipes given for flavoring
we so often are told to use the English bay
leaves and in this country they are hard to
obtain, but have you ever tried the peach
leaf: it resembles the bay leaf very much
and yields delicious flavor but should be
used only moderately. The bay leaves are
the leaves of the cherry laurel a small ever-
green grown on the shores of the Mediter-
ranean and can only be obtained at the
grocers in large cities where many varieties
of imported delicacies are kept, so of course
in most country places are not obtainable.
	The Utah women are doing a wonderful
mount of beautiful work for the World's

[Column 2]
Fair and how nice it would be if an exhibit
could be made at Conference time that the
visitors from the different counties might
see what their neighbors have been doing,
but this will be impossible as before the
coming conference, the articles must be
shipped to Chicago but the EXPONENT will
endeavor to write a description of these
beautiful things that its readers may know
what Utah women are doing for the
World's Fair. CAMELIA.


