EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE near approach of Conference and
the dedication of the Temple in this city is
bringing an influx of visitors from the
several Stakes of Zion, and some from other
parts of the country as well, and the greet-
ings of old friends and acquaintances is
beginning to be quite noticable already on
the streets. Business places seem to be
putting on a sort of gala appearance and no
doubt a more perceptible change will come
later on,
	THE work for the World’s Fair is in part
coming to a close; some shipments of goods
have been made and others are nearly
ready. The women engaged in this matter
of exhibits have been diligent in season
and out of season in encouraging and urg-
ing those who were making articles to be as
expeditious as possible in finishing off, so
that Utah may not be behind, in making a
showing equal to its capacity in this regard.
There are some fine articles of fancy work
etc, and in industrial art some excellent
work has been done, and in the way of
woman’s work in charities and organizations,
no Territory of its size and numbers can
make a better or more thorough showing.
Time will prove whether the women of
Utah excel in any of the arts or professions.
The silk portieres for the Woman’s Build-
ing will assuredly be a very great credit to
the women of the Territory.
	THE representation of women from this
Territory at the Woman’s Congress is likely
to be quite large considering the remoteness
of the locality. The National Wom-
an’s Relief Society and the Young Ladies'
National M. I. A, will each hold a meeting
on the 19th of May in one of the Depart-
ment Halls assigned to them in the Art
Building outside the Fair grounds. Of the
Congress proper considerable has been pub-
lished but of the part our organizations are
to take, or who are going down to attend
the Woman’s Congress very little has yet
been said. We feel safe however in antici-
pating a strong phalanx of bright intelli-
gent and able representatives.
	THE sisters ought not to forget how
essential it is for them to sustain the Expo-
nent. The need of it has been widely felt
during the last year while we have been
looking up on all matters pertaining to
woman’s work and mission, and the writer
has been strongly reminded of the words of
President Brigham Young, “tell the sisters
to take the Exponent and preserve it, for it


will be a record of their history” and so it is
in a great degree. All officers of the Relief
Society and all the members of the Society
who can, should take it and read it and
keep it by them for reference, and if one is
not able to do so alone two or three can put
the means together, but there are very few
certainly who cannot afford one dollar per
year, to help maintain an organ devoted es-
pecially to the elevation of woman kind and
humanity everywhere.
	WE learned with deep regret of the death
of Miss Mary E. Seymour, which occurred
the last week in March, after a four days
illness from pneumouia. For the last five
years Miss Seymour has been the editor and
publisher of the Business Woman's Jour-
nal which was lately merged into the
American Woman's Journal, published by
a stock company. Miss Seymour was a
member of the American Society of Authors
and of the Woman’s Press Club.


