WORLD'S CONGRESS OF WOMEN.
Under the Auspices of the Woman's
	Branch of the World's Congress Aux-
	liary, Chicago, May 15-22, 1893.

	THE world’s great advance towarde a
higher wisdom than that which estimates
value merely by material gain, is interest-
ingly exemplified in the mere fact that
superb provision is made for the presentation
of the intellectual and moral progress of
mankind, side by side with its material
improvement at the approaching Columbian
Exposition.
	Over 100 Congresses for the discussion of
the vital subjects affecting human welfare
are to be held in conjunction with the Ex-
position, the first beginning May 15th, and
continuing one week, the others to follow
in successive weeks until the close of the
Fair in October. In order to make these
Congresses most easily accessible to the gen-
eral public, the managers of this depart-
ment of the Columbian Exposition have
wisely arranged that they shall be held, not
within the Fair grounds, but near the center
of the city, in the beautiful new Art Palace
erected for this purpose on the lake front,
close to the principal hotels. Into this new
temple of learning every one that thirsteth
for knowledge of the best thought of our
day on the problems of the period may,
without money and without price, enter
freely, and hear these questions discussed
by able speakers.
	The opening Congress, May 15 to 22,will
probably attract the largest convocation of
women to be found in Chicago during any
one week of the Fair. For at this time is
to be held the Memorial Congress devoted
to the unique purpose of setting forth the
intellectual, moral and material progress of
the women of the world from the discovery
of America in 1492, down to the present
time. To this special Congress have been
invited women of eminence from every
portion of the civilized world, many of
whom have already signified their intention
to be present and participate. Here will be
gathered together, from the four quarters of
the globe those most noted for their interest
in Education, Industry, Art and Literature,
Philanthropy and Charity, Moral and Social
Reform, Religion, Science and Philosophy.
Civil Law and Government. In two halls
of the Art Palace (with seating capacity of
2,500 each) programs of equal interest will

[Column 2]
be carried on simultaneously, dealing with
the above subjects in a popular manner,
while, in fifteen other halls of the building,
specialists will find provision for the dis-
cussion of their favorite topics in greater
detail.
	The closing day of this Congress, Sunday
May 21, will witness that which is, possibly,
the most striking proof of the wonderful
change in woman’s position manifested
within the last half century—her entrance
into the pulpit as ordained preacher, and
into the field of music as composer. Sun-
day morning the religious services will be
conducted by a body of regularly ordained
women ministers from all denominations
which recognize women in this capacity, the
sermon to be delivered by the Rev. Anna
Howard Shaw, of the Methodist Protestant
Church, one of the most eloquent speakers
in the United States. In the evening a
sacred concert, with music composed, ren-
dered and conducted by women, will close
the exercises of the day and week.
	Verily, may every woman’s heart swell
with joyful anticipations, as she considers
this signal proof that at last even a portion
of the ruling sex is ready to say to her,
“Well done good and faithful servant; thou
hast been faithful over a few things, I will
make thee ruler over many;’’ for while
woman’s exclusion from the pulpit con-
tinued every message she uttered in the in-
terests of morality suffered a depreciation
in popular esteem similar to that of coin
deliberately debased by the Government.
Woman in the pulpit at this Chicago Con-
gress is an omen of the new day of univer-
sal justice, when mankind shall at last agree
that ability, and not sex, shall decide what
is proper to be done by each human being
and not for women alone, but for the whole
race will that new day be glorious, for it
shall mark the opening of the epoch of the
hghest human development.
	THE unique feature of the coming.
World’s Fair, that which chiefly dis-
tinguishes it from all its predecessors, is the
arrangement for a series of Congresses in
which the moral and intellectual side of the
world’s progress may be set forth in con-
junction with the exposition of its material
advance.
	Near the centre of the city, conveniently
close to the principal hotels, a beautiful
building has been erected by the co-opera-
tion of the Directory of the World’s Fair,
the City of Chicago, and the Chicago Art
Institute, for the express purpose of pro-
viding suitable quarters for these Congress-
es, but which is also planned to remain as a
permanent, memorial Art Palace for the
city. This building, with an entrance on
Michigan Avenue and Adams Street, com-
prises two large halls, each with seating
capacity of twenty five hundred, and twenty
smaller halls, seating from two hundred to
seven hundred each, which together furnish
perfect appointments for the conduct of the
various Congresses and Conferences to be
convened between May 15th, and Novem-
ber 1st.
	While in each of these more than one
hundred Congresses (devoted to the dis-
cussion of Education, Industry, Art and
Literature, Philanthropy and Charity, Mor-
al and Social Reform, Religion, Science and
Philosophy, Civil Law and Government)
women will participate according to the
degree in which they have taken part in the
interest or activity indicated by the title of
the Congress, one special Congress has been

[Column 3]
arranged, to be called the World’s Congress
of Representative women, in which these
great subjects will be viewed from a differ-
ent standpoint, its object being to discuss 
not the subject in itself, but the relation of
the women of the world to the subject.
	With this object in view, invitations have
been sent to every national association of
women in the United States, Canada,
England, Ireland, Scotland, France, Ger-
many, Belgium, Norway, Sweden, Den-
mark, and Finland, and to individual wo-
men of eminence in Italy, Greece, Spain,
Poland, Russia, China, Japan, South
America, New Zealand, Austria, Holland,
Turkey, Iceland, Mexico, Switzerland, and
India to send representatives to this special
Congress.
	Two kinds of programs have been plan-
ned, one presenting the topics to be con-
sidered in a method calculated to interest
general audiences, the other arranged with
reference to specialists who wish to con-
sider the same topics with greater detail
than would be possible for large miscellane-
ous gatherings. The intention is to make
this (which is the first of the series, opening
May 15th, and continuing one week) a
Memorial Congress, and to have its papers
and addresses chronicle what the Congress
itself will celebrate, namely, the progress
of woman since the discovery of this conti-
nent in 1492. Each country represented
in the Congress is expected to send reports
showing woman’s advance in that country
along the various lines above mentioned,
setting forth her present educational oppor-
tunities, and the agencies through which
these opportunities have been, received, also
the objects now sought in each country by
its leaders.
	Eight rooms in the Art Palace will be set
aside for the use of the eight General De-
partments into which the work of the Con-
gress is divided (one room being assigned-
to each department,) and in these rooms
will be conducted a constant series of,
special conferences of an informal
character, which will enable women en-
gaged in the same work to become acquaint-
ed with one another, and also with the
various methods by which the work is pro-
secuted in different parts of the world.
	In the other seven halls meetings of the
various associations represented in the
Advisory Council of the Congress will be
held, each association to have one day for ,
its own special use, arranging its own pro- ‘
gram, providing its own speakers, and with
its own officers presiding. Those who
have already completed their preparations
and requested the use of a hall are as fol-
lows: The Woman’s National Indian As-
sociation, Association of Collegiate Alumnae,
American Society of Authors, Woman’s
Baptist Home Mission Society, General
Federation of Women’s Clubs, National
Woman’s Christian Temperance Union,
Woman’s Republican Association of the
United States, National Council of Women,
Woman’s Western Unitarian Conference,
Columbian Housekeepers’ Association,
National American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation, Woman’s Foreign Missionary
Society of the Reformed Church in the
United States, International Council of
Women, Non-Partisan National Women’s
Christian Temperance Union, Young
Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Association
Wimodaughsis, International Kindergarten
Union, Woman’s National Relief Corps,
Daughters of the American Revolution,
Order of thh Eastern Star, Loyal Women


[Column 1]
of American Liberty, National Alliance of
Unitarian and other Liberal Christian Wo-
men, International Young Women’s Chris-
tian Women, International Young Wo-
men’s Christian Association, National Wo-
man’s Relief Society, National Christian
League for the Promotion of Social Purity,
Woman’s National Alliance.
	One hall will be used each day of the
week for the especial purpose of hearing
and discussing reports of organizations.
	Nine meetings may thus be in progress
simultaneously, two in main hall and seven
in the department halls, giving a wide
variety of choice to the thousands who will
assemble in Chicago during this most in-
teresting week.
	Monday will be devoted principally to
the opening of the Congress, the addresses
of welcome, introduction of foreign dele-
gates and their responses in behalf of their
respective countries. Tuesday morning ad-
dresses in the large halls will be on the
Civil and Social Evolution of Woman and
the Administrative Ability of Woman, in
the evening on Woman the New Factor in
Economies, the Industrial Position of
Woman in Germany, and the Industrial
Position of Woman in France; Wednesday,
the Ethics of Dress, Woman on the Stage,
the New Womanhood of Italy, our debt to
Zurich and to Brussells, and Woman in the
Pulpit; Thursday, Woman as a Financier,
Woman in Municipal Government, the Po-
litical Future of Woman, the Solidarity of
Human Interests; Friday, Woman’s War
for Peace, Woman as a Social Leader, the
Professions and Trades underlying the
Home, Woman in Science, Woman’s place
in the Republic of Letters; Saturday, both
sessions will be devoted to the presentation
of the work of women in organizations,
considered in respect to Religion, Philan-
thropy, Education, Moral Reform, and
Political Liberty, with a general discussion
of the economy of woman’s forces through
organization. Sunday morning there will
be a religious service entirely conducted by
women ordained as ministers, representing
every denomination which has admitted
women to the ministry, and the Congress
will close Sunday night with a sacred con-
cert with music composed, rendered, and
conducted by women, and a closing ad-
dress on the influence of Columbian Ex-
position in woman’s development.
	Amongst the noted foreigners who will
attend this Congress are Madame Isabelle
Bogelot of France, Treasurer of the Inter-
national Council of Women; Miss Kirstine
Frederiksen of Copenhagen, Recording
Secretary of the International Counsil of
Women and President of Dansk Kvindesam-
fund; Lady Henry Somerset, the Countess
of Aberdeen, Mrs. Alice Cliff Scatcherd,
Mrs. Cobdenvenwin, Lady Harberton, Mrs.
Earnest Hart, Mrs. Florence Fenwick
Miller, and Mrs. Ormiston Chant, of Eng-
land; Miss Meri Toppelius and Mrs. Ebba
Nordqvist, representing the two national
associations of Finland; Dr. Marie Popelin,
of Brussells; Madame Fanny Zampini
Salazar, of Italy; Miss Hulda Lundin,
Principal of the Sloyd, of Stockholm; Miss
Augusta Fenger, representing Dansk
Kvindesamfund, Mrs. Nico Beck Meyer,
representing de Samlede Kvindeforeningen,
and Mrs. Olesen, representing the
Kvindelig Fremskridts Forening, of Den-
mark; Dr. Ella Mensch, of Darmstadt,
representing a Frauenverein, Fraulein
Augusta Forster, of Kassel, and Frau Hed-
wig Heyl, of Berlin; Miss Helen McKerlie,
[Column 2]
of Ireland; Mrs. Edith J. Archibald, Dr.
Emily Howard Stowe, Mrs. Elizabeth M.
Tilley, Mrs. Judge Foster, Mrs. Mary
McDonnell, Mrs. Dr. E. A. Blakely, Mrs.
May L. Gibbs, Dr. Augusta Stowe Gullen,
Miss Madge Robertson, of Canada.
	From our own country will gather a dis-
tinguished host representing every phase of
woman’s thought and work: Mrs. Potter
Palmer, Mrs. Chas. Henrotin, Julia Ward
Howe, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Helen
Gardener, Annie Jenness Miller, Susan B.
Anthony, Frances E. Willard, Augusta
Cooper Bristol, Amelia S. Quinton, Mrs. J.
N. Crouse Charlotte Emerson Brown,
Lorraine J. Pitkin, Charlotte Perkins
Stetson, Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, Alice
Freeman Palmer, M. Louise Thomas,
Ursula Gestefeld, Sarah B. Cooper,
Margaret Ray Wickins, Hattie A. Robinson,
Clara Barton, Mrs. W. D. Cabell, Lucy
Stone, Mary A. Livermore, Frances E. W.
Harper, Dr. Mary Putman Jacobi,Emmeline
B. Wells, Mrs. John Wilkinson, Lillie
Devereux Blake, Elizabeth B. Grannis.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY Secretary.


