PERSONAL REMINISCENCES.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	DEAR Old Friend:—My Exponent had
not come for some time, and I had began to 
feel hungry for, and wonder why it had
not reached me.  When yesterday I heard
a dump on the doorstep and there was a
parcel of four numbers truly a feast of fat
things.  As I read the beautiful inspiration.
"The Christmas of the Pioneers," by our
gifted Sister, Augusta Joyce Crocheron, my
mind went back to the spring of 47, when
I, a young girl of seventeen, had just ar-
rived at Winter Quarters from my home in
England.  Notwithstanding the dire pov-
erty, and much sickness which prevailed,
most of the people were preparing to follow
in the wake of the Pioneers who had just
started on their journey.  My husband,
with others was busy mending wagons,
looking up yoke-bows, making bow-keys,
or pins to hold the bows in the yokes, hunt-
ing up the cattle, mating them, finding
chains, especially lock-chains, for, bear in

[Column 2]
mind there were no "breaks" to hold wag-
ons back going down steep hills in those
days.
	These and a hundred other things occu-
pied their time.  While we were busy
making and mending wagon covers,
making crackers, and in every way aiding
and assisting to prepare for the long and
toilsome journey.  At last we started and
got as far as the Elk Horn River, where we
camped about a month, waiting for the rest
to arrive, so as to organize into companies
of hundreds, fifties and tens.
	The brethren made a large and substan-
tial raft, on which to ferry us across, for the
river was swift and deep, and every wagon
and person had to cross in that way.  The
cattle were made to swim over.  I forgot to
say that our family being numerous and
help scarce, two of we women rather thought
we could manage with the oversight of my
husband to drive our own team, which
consisted of a yoke of cattle, for, though
just coming from a large city, and not
being used to this kind of a life—never
having seen cattle yoked together; still I
thought, well- what any other woman can
do, I can, so, shouldering my whip, I
drove out of Winter Quarters, and soon
learned to manage my team first class.
	I learned to put on the lock-chain instant-
ly at the top of a steep hill, and would
jump out quickly while the cattle were
going, to take it off, so that the impetus
afforded by the end of the descent would aid
them in starting up the other side, for we
often passed through deep gullies  On one
occasion I was jumping out while the
cattle were going, and my skirt caught on
the tongue bolt, and threw me down, and
before I could extricate myself the nigh
front wheel passed over my leg just above
the ankle.  I scrambled into the wagon the
best way I could, I turned down my stock-
ing expecting to see a bad bruise for it was
very painful, but lo! and behold there was
no bruise there.  I was much astonished
but very thankful.  The pain soon passed
away and I drove my team as usual.  I
must relate another remarkable incident
that happened.  While toiling through the
quick-sand of the Blackhills—the
“reaches” had been shortened, teams
doubled, and, while they were toiling slowly
up the hills all but the driver pushing be-
hind, one of our dear little ones, a boy
fifteen months old, being asleep was left in
the wagon.  It being a hot day, the sides
of the cover had been tied up.  The child
on awaking, finding himself alone, looked
out at the side and fell right between the
wheels, the hind one passing over his limbs
before he could be rescued.  His father
picked him up—I durst not look up for I
expected to see his tender limbs severed
from his body, but strange to say—owing
to the soft sand, and the great mercy of
God, all the hurt was a red mark made by
the iron tire across his limbs.  His father
administered to him, and in a little while he
was holding the whip apparently as well as
ever.  The first part of the journey I
enjoyed much, being young, and having
good health, I did not mind the driving and
the labor incidental to such a journey, cook-
ing, washing and etc.  At night, when
we drove into camp the wagons formed in
the shape of a horseshoe, the first two with
the front ends pretty close together, the next
drove close enough for the tongue to lie out
side of the wheels of the first one, and so
on until the fifty were in place.  The en-
closure forming a corral for the cattle

[Column 3]
through the night.  Each driver unyoked
his cattle (I frequently unyoked mine) then
those whose turn it was, herded them till
dark.  The rest of the men would father
material for fires, often nothing but dried
grass or Buffalo chips as they were called.
	As we neared our destination, our jour-
ney became wearisome and full of toil.
Grass became scarce, cattle began to give
out, often, when an ox gave out, a cow
was put in its place.  The roads were
rough, wagons had to be pitched up, till
sometimes you would wonder how they
could go at all.  One of my calamities was
my lock-chain giving out, and in going
down a hill I had to hold the nigh ox by the
horn and tap the off one over the face and
keep saying, "Whoa, Back; Whoa, Back,"
and nearly hold my breath till I got down
to the bottom, then stop, draw a breath of
relief, see that all was right, then on again,
for others were right on our heels and we
had to get out of their way, (you can just
imagine what a condition our skirts were 
in.)  I never shall forget the last day we
traveled, and arrived in the Valley.  It
happened to be my turn to drive that day
Sept. 28th.  The reach of our wagon was
broken and tied together after a fashion,
and the way the front wheels wabbled about
was a sight to behold.  I kept expecting
every minute to see the poor old concern
draw apart and come to grief, but it held
together and when my eyes rested on the
beautiful entrancing sight—the Valley;
Oh! how my heart swelled within me, I
could have laughed and cried, such a co-
mingling of emotions I cannot describe.
My soul was filled with thankfulness to
God for bringing us to a place of rest and
safety—a home.  No doubt our valley looks
astonishingly beautiful to the strangers who
come here now, but it cannot evoke the
same emotions as it did to us, poor weary
tired, worn out, ragged travelers.  When I
drove into camp, unyoked my cattle, and
sat down on the wagon tongue, and began
to realize that, in the morning I would not
have to hitch up and toil through another
day, such a feeling of rest—blessed rest
permeated my whole being that is impos-
sible to describe, and cannot be realized
except by those who have passed through
similar scenes.
	After a day or two my husband with
others began to explore Emigration and
other canyons, made a road to the timber
and in a very short time a log room was up,,
a rough fireplace was built, what few chairs
we had brought with us, our trunks and
boxes were brought in, and a few rough
seats were improvised, enough for us to
assemble around the fire with a semblance
of a roof over our heads (we did not wait
for it to be finished) that was an evening
never to be forgotten.  The first one of the
kind in more than three months.
	We spent the evening in singing
prayer and praise to that kind Being who
had brought and guided us to this haven of
peace and safety.  Soon more rooms were
added, and made as comfortable as possible,
we slept in our wagons far into the winter,
after our breath would be frozen and our
pillows.  But those of us who were well
did not mind it very much, we were con-
tented and happy.  I accompanied my hus-
band into the canyons, cooking and making 
things as comfortable as I could, for him
and the men with him.  I well remember
the first night I slept on the ground with
the star bedecked firmament over head.
To be continued.


