	QUEEN ELIZABETH.

	QUEEN ELIZABETH was the daughter of
Henry VIII. and his second wife Anne
Boleyn: and was born Sept. 7th, 1533; her
family name was Tudor her mother was a
very beautiful woman with whom her
father fell in love while she was lady in
waiting to the queen, his wife, whom he
divorced in order to marry his new love.
Her reign, however, was of short duration.
When Elizabeth was scarcely three years
of age, her father, in a fit of jealousy,
ordered her beheaded. At the time of
Elizabeth’s birth Henry was very much in
love with her mother but was, of course,
disappointed that she was not a boy, but as
all the realm looked upon her as heir to the
throne he decided to give her a grand
Christening accordingly she was wrapped in
royal robes of purple and ermine with a very
long train which was borne by Lords and
Ladies, who deemed this a very great
privilege. In the splendid procession
which attended her to church, were four
Lords who walked two on either side hold-
ing over her a magnificent canopy. The
ceremony was performed by Cranmer the
Archbishop of Canterbury, On her return
she was followed by four additional persons
of rank bearing costly and beautiful presents
by her several Godfathers and Godmothers.
Nor was this all her father had an act of
parliament passed, solemnly recognizing and
confirming her claim as heir to the crown
and the title of Princess of Wales was
formally confer upon her when these things
were done in order to further his political
schemes, he offered her to the King of
France as a wife for one of his sons, which
offer was rejected. After the death of her
mother little Elizabeth had a residence
assigned her at a place called Hunsdon and
was put under the charge of a governess
named Lady Bryan who, in a letter to one
of the Lords, stated that his little charge
was lacking in raiment and those things
which her position demanded. When
Elizabeth was fourteen years old her father
died leaving two heirs between her and the
throne. A young brother, son of a third
wife, who died at the age of sixteen and an
elder sister, daughter of Catherine the first
wife, who died at the age of sixteen and an
elder sisterm daughter of Catherine the first
wife a great council of sixteen persons of
the highest rank governed in Edward’s

[Column 2]
name until his death when Mary ascended
the throne being at that time about thirty-
five years old, she is described as a cold
austere maiden lady forbidding in her ap-
pearance and manners, and a very decided
Catholic. She had not been queen but a
very short time before she had Lady Jane
Grey, her husband and father and some-
others beheaded. Lady Jane was a very
lovable woman the very personification of
beauty genius, piety and virtue she had very
much against her own mind, by the advice
of her relatives and friends, set up a claim
to the throne and reigned ten days, after
which time she very gladly relinquished to
Mary. For this she lost her life in her
seventeenth year. Elizabeth had taken
sides with her sister in the contest and was
very properly permitted to share her
triumph, so far as taking part in the honors
and festivities usual on such occassions.
	No sooner had Mary entered upon her
duties as queen than she had many suitors
for her hand in marriage among them was
Philip a Prince of Spain and a great grand-
son of Ferdinand and Isabella. Mary was
very much pleased with this offer as his
prospects were very brilliant, he was also
very much younger than herself, being
about twenty-seven years of age, at this time
the people of England were generally of the
Protestant faith and consequently quite un-
easy about Mary’s contemplated marriage,
as Philip was a very stern and severe man
as well as a very ardent Catholic. This
with the knowledge that she had very
quietly but efficiently been forming measures
to bring back her government and nation
to the Catholic faith did not tend to their
peace of mind after they had worked so
faithfully to place her on the throne.
Mary’s ministers advised her to be a very
careful and circumspect and suspend opera-
tions, against the Protestant Church for a
time which she did, but the alarm had gone
forth and the House of Commons appointed
a committee of twenty members and sent
them with a humble petition to the queen
that she would not marry a foreigner; it
was of no avail however, she was very
much displeased and dissolved Parliament.
Philip’s father hearing of the obstacles in
the way borrowed money to the amount
of two million dollars which his son was to
return, as soon as he got posession of Eng-
land, and sent to buy up influential men
of the realm to favor the marriage; he also
sent a very magnificent embassy to Lon-
don which with the large bribe seemed to
silence the opposition. After a great many
stipulations guarding the rights of Mary
and England to satisfy the English people
the wedding was allowed to take place.
Mary seems to have been very nervous and
unhappy for fear Philip should be disap-
pointed in her beauty and would fail to love
her; in fact she complained that he had not
written to her and been as attentive as she
thought he ought to be, to a prospective
bride that was bringing him a kingdom for
a dowry, but woman like she thought her
troubles would be all over when she once
got him all for herself. When that was
accomplished she was happy for a short
time only. Philip left her and went back
to Spain in a year after, and did not return
but once and that was to compel her to join
with him in a war against France. This
war proved very disastrous for England.
The town of Calaison the French side of the
channel a very great stronghold had been in
the posession of the English for two hun-
dred years and they were very proud of it.


This was lost and they were very indignant
about it and murmured at their queen
whom they said was very energetic in im-
prisoning and burning her own subjects,
but could not cope with their enemies
abroad.
	Mary sank beneath this blow she said she
should die, and if after death they should
examine her body they would find Calais
like a load upon her heart. She died on
the 17th, of November 1558, to the un-
speakable relief of the greater portion of
her subjects she had reigned a little more
than five years and during that time had
scantioned the most cruel and fiendish
deeds of murder; the acts which had
abolished the Papal supremacy were repealed;
this was an indication to the Protestants
that there were dark days ahead. It is said
not to mention those who perished in dun-
geons and those who expatriated them-
selves no less than three hundred, of whom
one hundred were women and children,
were burned alive at the stake; the first
martyrs in this persecution were two emi-
nent Divines of the Reformed Church, Hoop-
er Bishop of Gloucster and Rogers a Clergy-
man of Essex, Archbishop Cramner Ridley,
Bishop of London, Latimer, Bishop of
Worcester soon followed after. Many of
the Catholic prelates were exercised in
their behalf, and even Philip himself was
moved to pity at such deeds of infamy.
She left no heirs, indeed I do not think she
deserved any but she earned for herself an
unenviable fame, and the dreadful name of
Bloody Mary.
	In the meantime Elizabeth had suffered
no little annoyance at the hands of her sister;
although they tried to keep up the appear-
ance of friendship they were natural
enemies it could not be otherwise owing to
the circumstances attending their mother's
marriages wherin it could not be decided
which was the legal wife, and they could
not remain friends any great length of time,
besides Mary was jealous of Elizabeth, she
was afraid the malcontents would urge her
claims to the crown, and she felt that she
must improvise some way of getting her
into her power, she therefore wrote her a
letter stating that she was not safe and had
better come to her for protection; but
Elizabeth did not want to go and moreover
she was sick and her attendants sent a
certificate to the effect that she was not
able to travel.
[To be continued.]


