GRANTSVILLE MARCH 1893.

	DEAR SISTER:—You can have no idea of
the deep feeling of sorrow that the death of
Sister Howard has caused here. We had a
most excellent Conference, I never was at a
better, it was so humble yet so full of the
spirit of God. Sisters Howard and Ed-
dington as you know were here, they
seemed so full of the spirit of teaching and
the Sisters so willing to be taught that it
was truly “A feast of fat things.” There
were two Relief Society meetings one
Teachers meeting, two Young Ladies
meetings and the Primary, and all well
attended.
	Sister Howard in one of the meetings
referred to the quickness with which the
cholera took its victims, and a wish that she
might die suddenly, she little thought she
would not leave Grantsville alive, but have
to be taken in a casket. To have looked at
her we who have seen her often here, she
looked so handsome and in better health
then ever before, and more full of the
spirit of God. Remember I who write this,
knowingly never flatter either the living or
the dead, but write this in all soberness
and truth. As you know she was taken
with the paralytic stroke that ended her life
at the residence of President M. A.
Huuter, only a few minutes before the
attack she was laughing and joking with
Sisters Hunter and Eddington, Sister


Hunter saw her fall and thought she had
fainted, but alas! she was struck by death,
this was between 9 and 10 o’clock on Satur-
day morning the eleventh; they had been
talking and arranging for their return to
S. L. City. Every thing was done that
could be done, but all in vain, Sisters
Anderson and Louisa Hale feel sure that
some of the time between her being taken
and her death, she was conscious for they
asked her to press their hands in answer to
thei r questions, and she did so. She did
not open her eyes or speak after she fell and
died about two o’clock on Sunday morning
the twelfth. She will rest in peace for her
work is done. Her son and grandaughter
arrived at 8 p.m. Saturday and were with
her from that time until she was taken
away, truly followed by very, very sorrow-
ful feelings by both brethren and sisters,
	M.A. House Secretary.


