PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S PARTY.

THE evening of the first of March was a
red letter day in the family of President
Woodruff on account of the celebration of
his eighty-sixth anniversary.
	The party was made up of a few of his
old-time companions and fellow laborers in
the Gospel, some with whom he had travel-
ed many thousands of miles on land and
sea; probably there is no man living in the
Church who had traversed as wide an ex-
tent of country and in as many lands to
carry the Gospel of salvation, as President
Woodruff has, and for this and many other
reasons he is very greatly reverenced by
this people, as well as for the position he
holds as President of the Church. Among
the assembled guests were President Larenzo
Snow of Brigham City, Apostle Franklin
D. Richards and wife, Apostle Moses
Thatcher of Logan and wife, Apostle F.
M. Lyman, of Tooele, and wife, Apostle
John Henry Smith and wife, Apostle
Abraham H. Cannon and wife, President
A. O. Smoot of Provo and wife, President
J.T. D. McAllister of St. George, President
Angus M. Cannon and daughter:
	Presiding Bishop W. B. Preston and wife
Bishop Robert T. Burton and wife, Bishop
John R. Winder, Elder Joseph Horne and
wife, Mesdames S. J. Cannon, Zina D. H.
Young, B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells, Carlie
Y. Cannon, P. P. Jennings, M. M. Barratt
and quite a number of relatives whose
names are not mentioned here. The day
was also the anniversary of the birth of
Sister Emma Woodruff, who shared with
her husband the honors of this happy
celebration.
	The house was tastefully fitted up for the
occasion, flowers in profusion, lovely as a
dream, the gifts of dear and valued friends,
the tables were handsomely decorated with
the graceful smilax and flowers, and at each
plate a card,bearing the name of the person
with an original motto and the signature of the
President himself all in his own hand writ-
ing, which made a pretty souvenir of the
occasion. The dinner was sumptuous and
the sociability of the old-time friends was
most enjoyable.
	During the evening some impressive
speeches were made by the brethren Pres-
dent Lorenzo Snow taking the lead, his
tribute to the President was tender and
eloquent. President Joseph F. Smith in his
characteristic earnest and lofty style al-
luded to President Woodruff's position, his
remarkable life, his sterling integrity and
unbounded zeal and implicit faith, and dwelt

[Column 2]
upon his noble example and the great hold
he had upon the hearts of the Latter-day
Saints. President Snow gave in his remarks
some incidents of their missionary experi-
ences quite touching that had been recalled by
the inscription upon the card presented to
him. Apostle Moses Thatcher also paid a
glowing tribute of appreciation and love to
the reverend host and all seemed to vie with
each other in expressions of love and esteem.
	The President responded in his usual af-
fectionate and gentle manner and gave some
reminiscences of the past that were very
interesting. He also gave in his child-like
but prophetic way some vivid glimpses of
the future that can never be forgotten by
those present.
	It was a most characteristic gathering of
some of the tried and faithful ones, under
particularly pleasant circumstances, and one
could scarcely help contrasting such an occa-
sion with the troublous time of adversity
and hardship of the past, and acknowledg-
ing the hand of the Lord in blessing Israel
with prosperity.
	President Woodruff may his days be
multiplied and his blessings increase more
and more as the years roll on and his soul
be satisfied in the love of the people.


