General Conference of the Relief Society
Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
On April 2 and 3, 1926, the Annual Conference of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints convened in Salt Lake City. The Conference consisted of five sessions—two for general and stake officers, two for the public and a special meeting for stake and mission presidents. The attendance was large and there was excellent representation from the various stakes and missions. The roll call gave the following tabulation:
General Officers' Meetings. Stakes represented 92 out of 94; missions represented 8. General Board members 19; stake presidents 73; stake counselors 85; stake secretary-treasurers 46; other stake board members 219; mission presidents 7; other mission representatives 1; visitors 30; total 480.
General sessions in the Assembly Hall. Morning session 2,400; afternoon session 2,800.
The missions represented were as follows: California, Central states, Eastern states, Northern states, Northwestern states, North Central states, Western states and Dutch mission.
President Clarissa S. Williams presided over all the sessions of the conference, and she was assisted and supported throughout by the members of  and by the Relief Society choir. Special numbers were given by Miss Margaret Summerhays, who rendered most delightfully "Gethsemane," and by Messrs. Noel Pratt and George M. Cannon, Jr., who sang as a duet, "The morning breaks the shadows flee."
The Liberty stake furnished ushers for the conference and they were most attentive and courteous to those in attendance.
A banquet was given Friday evening by the General Board,


with the stake and mission presidents or their proxies as guests of honor. The banquet was open to all stake officers who desired to attend and covers were laid in all for 300. Counselor Jennie B. Knight was master of ceremonies and Mrs. Julia A. Child, toastmistress.
CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS HONOR FUND
A most pleasing and distinctive feature of the Relief Society conference occurred at the banquet in the form of a genuine surprise to President Clarissa S. Williams and the members of the General Board. The authors of the innovation were the Relief Society stake and mission presidents. At the close of the program the privilege of the floor was asked for Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, president of the Pioneer stake Relief Society. Mrs. Cutler in a most charming manner presented President Williams with a gift from the stakes and missions in the form of a check for $600, the fund to be named The Clarissa S. Williams-Relief Society Honor Fund, and to be used for any purpose and in any way President Williams might designate. Mrs. Cutler called attention to the fact that memorial funds have been established in honor of the past presidents of the organization, and she stated that it was the desire of the women of the Society to establish this fund during President Williams' life so that her own wisdom and love might be expressed in choosing the object of its use. President Williams was so overwhelmed and overcome with the gift, as well as with the spirit of love and confidence which was poured out upon her in connection with the presentation, that it was almost impossible for her to express her feelings. She, however, responded most graciously and charmingly and in a few words expressed her heartfelt thanks and gratitude to the women of the Relief Society who had so honored her.