[Column 1]
wife with him was young looking, and the
bridesmaids very pretty. The family sat
up late and discussed the morrow's pro-
gram. They must be married in the par-
lor at home; for the village meeting house
was not open to any but orthodox people,
and the ceremony was to be performed at
high noon, and they were to sit down to
dinner at three, and the evening was to be
a quiet one with their own family and
guests, and the following morning the
wedding party would depart. Uncle Ed-
ward would remain for a time but he in-
formed them that previous to leaving Bos-
ton it had been arranged that Fred and his
wife should go out to South Africa with
him.
	This was another cruel blow to the mother
and she heartily wished Uncle Edward
back with the Boers, and did not hesitate to
tell him so.
	"Wait till Fred comes back rich and
you'll change your mind Fanny, it will be
ever so much better than practising his
profession in Boston, besides he is really a
man of affairs and with his knowledge on
general subjects, he'll make his fortune out
there in a chartered company."
	There is no time to tell you of the wed-
ding finery, nor the dinner that followed,
which was decidedly an old fashioned and
substantial one though served somewhat
elaborately. The bride in white satin and
orange blossoms was a perfect picture of
loveliness though she did not unbend to
Fred's family, not even during the con-
gratulations, and her mother felt called up-
on to make all sorts of apologies for her
lack of cordiality and friendliness. Fred
could not see it, love is blind now as of old,
and his mother and sisters were too fond of
him to speak of it.
	Squire Wentworth remarked aside to his
wife, “She’ll get that silly pride taken out
of her when she gets away among the
Boers.” But as for herself she spoke of
ostriches and diamonds and the wealth they
would accumulate as though it were a fairy
tale, and so it seemed to her undoubtedly,
such is the hope and trustfulness of youth
and inexperience.
	The evening was dull, the mother was
sad with thoughts of the parting so soon to
come, and even the Squire was glad when it
was time for the guests to retire who were
to take the morning train.
	As usual in homes where the unusual
occurs the family, except the newly wedded
pair, sat long and late by the hearthstone
talking over the events of the day and dis-
cussing Fred’s future, what it was likely to
be with his haughty wife. “Its very
evident she holds her head high above us,”
said the Squire. "Never mind," put in
Mrs. Wentworth, “if she only truly loves
Fred we can forgive everything else in her.”
But her face quivered as she thought of the
parting on the morrow, and the long jour-
ney that lay before them. No sleep for
Mrs. Wentworth and the morning found
her pale and trembling.
	In a few hours after breakfast the party
made their adieux, the Squire and his brother
seeing them to the station. Perhaps the
disdain of the bride helped the sisters to
bear up better than if she had been gentle,
they felt so outraged, but Susan had made
an impression on the young minister al-
though she dare not acknowledge it even to
herself, as love in its true simplicity never
does and it gave her courage, however,
and her buoyancy helped her mother and
sisters to bear up more bravely; courage in

