[Column 2]
those around us is uplifting always.
	Uncle Edward whose trunks had only
just come from the train began to display
his Eastern silks and trinkets and the girls
were interested directly, as what girls are
not with elegant and costly goods and bric-a
brac. There was some rich present for
every one, though he had not known how
many relatives he had when the goods were
purchased. And so thanks to the rich and
generous uncle the Thanksgiving ended
happily, even the babies were remembered
and there were great promises made for the
future. Mrs. Wentworth tried to be cheer-
ful but it was difficult, as it is for any
mother when the loved ones go out from
the home; but the girls were to remain at
home now their school days were practical-
ly over and they would not be quite so
lonely until they too would leave the old
home. Uncle Edward meantime divulged
another secret and that settled the query in
all their minds why Rosetta Stacy left her
grand home in Boston and came up there
to be married; it was simply because Uncle
Edward would not consent to a fashionable
Boston wedding.
	When Thanksgiving came around again
a year after, Susan and the young minister
from Boston were united in marriage in the
same old parlor, Squire Wentworth himself
officiating in the ceremony.
	Only the Squire’s baby, as he called
Marian, was left at the old homestead now
to keep the old folks company and she had
fallen in love with one of Fred’s college
friends, who made frequent visits to
Wendell and seemingly with great expecta-
tions.
	And so the Thanksgiving those country
people expected to have enjoyed in quiet
country fashion, feasting on the usual
wholesome viands without much ceremony
but with genuine hospitality and great
thankfulness to Him who had bestowed
such a bounteous measure of happiness
and plenty, had found all their plans frus-
trated and the unexpected and unforeseen
had come to pass; and so we often find it in
this life on holidays and other days.
	Rosetta’s letters to her mother from Cape
Colony were not filled with diamonds nor
even ostrich feathers and Fred has not yet
notified the Squire of an heir to perpetuate
the name of Wentworth.
	[-]ew England Thanksgivings are very
dignified affairs, every one is expected to
do his best to lay aside all ill feeling. all
nonsense even until after the dinner is
served, which is really a state occasion.
No frivolity is tolerated in the old families,
church in the morning, and always extra
musical exercises and special thanksgiving
expressed in the prayers. The homes, and
more especially the dining rooms, are pro-
fusely decorated with evergreens and red
winter berries which make a most charming
background, and are a sort of gladness to
the eye and the heart at this sombre season
of the year.
	There are various traditions extant in re-
gard to Thanksgiving, and it is difficult to
decide which of these is likely to be true,
but that matters little, it has become an es-
tablished and honored custom and should
be scrupulously observed by all in being
truly thankful to our Father in heaven for
all His mercies to His children and the
manifestations of His goodness, and in this
simple way teach lessons of veneration and
gratitude to the Giver of all good gifts.
E. B. W.


