[Column 1]
station, my trunks are left there, I wanted
to see how things were at home before
Rosetta came up and be here to meet her,
we’re engaged now,” this last remark with
an exultant tone as though it was a re-
markable feat accomplished.
	“That’s it, is it Fred why I’ve just been
telling mother I wished she wasn’t coming.
We don’t know what to do up here with
such stylish people, we’re only old-
fashioned country folks you know, no velvet
carpets nor silk curtains nor cut glass and
fine silver, and we’re not prepared to enter-
tain fine people nowadays.”
	“Now father, what about your own ca-
reer down in Boston sitting in the legisla-
ture year after year?”
	“O ’twas different then, folks were plain-
er, and it wasn’t all style and fashion, and
your mother here was something of a belle,
as much at home there then as I was my-
self—she was a pretty fine dancer in those
days, knew the minuet and Roger de
Coverly, and wasn’t much of a wall flower
ever; but its all changed now and we’re
out of date and home is the best place for
us.”
	“I don’t dispute that fact, but there’ll
have to be some fixing up here now within
a day or two. Tomorrow there’ll be some
new carpets and furniture coming and we’ll
have to look up some help,” this with a
great air of consequence.
	Mr. and Mrs. Wentworth looked at each
other, guessing what it all meant but with-
uot saying so, only “What do you mean
Fred just as we are to celebrate Thanks-
giving and all the folks coming home, turn-
ing the house upside down,” and as Fred
made no reply his father exclaimed, “Isn’t
the house we’ve lived in these forty years
and more, and where you and all the others
were born, good enough for her to come to?
Its all very strange and incomprehensible.”
	“That isn’t the question, I’m going to
be married, and besides Rosetta there will
be her father and mother and brother and
the minister and bridesmaids, and some
other college friends of mine.”
	This in one breath was overwhelming;
they had guessed there was to be a wedding
when the carpets and furniture were men-
tioned, but to think of a minister from Bos-
ton, that was rather more than they could
stand. What would folks think and where
were they to put all these fine people? And
poor Mrs. Wentworth puzzled her brain all
night long contriving where they would all
sleep and what to do for help in such an
emergency. There was plenty of linen, if
it wasn't fine, and blankets and quilts and
feather beds in abundance that was some
consolation she told the Squire, tho’ he did
not seem to answer, and finally she stopped
talking, but no sleep for her, it was too ex-
citing, and to think of the strange minister,
and would he bring his wife, and was he
orthodox, and a hundred other things that
puzzled her. She was glad when morning
came so she could be doing something for
she could not be still when so many things
must be changed.
	Before the family had finished breakfast
the wagons drove in from the station with
the household goods, and Jake had hunted
up some workmen and the Carter girl’s
mother came, and a colored women who
did the washing and all day long there was
noise enough, such as had never been heard
in that old house, never since they had re-
modelled it more than a quarter of a century
before. Fred jammed his fingers trying to
help, and the Squire lamed his arm and

