[Column 2]
	As a club we have had the pleasure of re-
ceiving the Countess Wachmeister, the
National Press Association, Miss Beecher
and others of note.
	Personal co-operation is the keynote of
success in club work, and in this particu-
lar I believe all the members can be justly
complimented for their prompt response to
program appointments.
	Occasionally to vary the routine club ex-
ercises we have had an evening in character
which aroused an interest and mirth and
taxed the memories of years of reading in
order to guess the authors.
	A most excellent rule in our club is the
rotation in office every one or two years. It
is the best means of infusing new life and
vigor into the work as well as lifting each
member into the realm of responsibility
and preventing the apathy which is too apt
to follow depending on leadership in others.
Few people are natural leaders, but many
are capable of improvement in presiding
with generous helpfulness from their asso-
ciates, and thus in time the mental status of
all the members is raised, increasing the dig-
nity and power of the club as a whole.
	The finances of a club form a pedestal
upon which rests its independence and self-
respect. Cash acts as oil to the wheels of
progress, and it is as important to the life of
the club that each member be prompt with
her dues, as to be active with her brain to
secure success in literary work.
	I was much impressed while reading
President Henrotin’s address to the General
Federation of Clubs with her recommenda-
tion to each club to hold a meeting to con-
sider the subject of international and nation-
al arbitration and industrial conciliation,
and the important part which women are
taking in educating, through peace socie-
ties, public opinion in favor of universal
disarmament. The futility of woman
grappling with such a stupendous project
at first thought seems simply absurd. But
has she not already taken by the horns
quite as prodigious a monster, the Liquor
King?
	A moments reflection upon the vast num-
ber of men composing the standing armies
of the different nations, maintained to steady
the toppling crowns on too often brainless
heads, and to aid in grasping territory and
holding power, makes the thought of dis-
armament seem wholly untenable.
	Such a suggestion, however, shows that
woman is growing in self-reliance and con-
fidence in herself, that she can accomplish
anything great or small, that she believes it
to be her duty to undertake. As a matter of
fact each man in those great hosts of arm-
es is some woman’s son, husband, father,
brother or sweetheart: So that the army of
women is as large as the army of men, and
if a solidarity of the hosts of women could
be marshalled into peace societies, public
opinion in favor of disarmament might fin-
ally be accomplished.
	As the president was advised, a meeting
could be given to the discussion of this sub-
ject and if it can be encompassed, as she
says “it will be the crown of glory of wo-
man’s work for humanity.” But as chari-
ty begins at home so should be the general
work of improvement.
	Some woman has said that “most people
do not know half the resources of their
own city and it is the golden opportunity of
the club to point them out.” In Salt Lake
City it looks as if the clubs will not only
have to point out the resources of the city,

[Column 3]
but to raise the cash by dint of industrious,
individual and collective work to establish
them. To begin with it will take the unit-
ed strength of the clubs to raise the means
whereby our public library may be sustain-
ed and very much enlarged, and also to in-
augurate traveling libraries for the benefit
of surrounding towns and villages.
	When we have accomplished these and
solved the servant girl question by opening
cooking schools to educate her and her
mistress too, and also learned to be skilled in
general household economies, then verily
the club women of Utah will be prepared to
become the vanguard in the grand army for
the world’s pacification and will be hailed
as angels with balm of Gilead in their
wings.


