LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies Semi-monthly Meet-
ing held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall,
Nov. 27, 1897, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding. Singing “As the dew of heaven
distilling.” Prayer by Julia C. Howe.
Singing “Behold the mountain of the
Lord.”
	Counselor Stevenson was disappointed in
not having President Horne with us this
afternoon. Said she had never enjoyed a
meeting more than the one two weeks ago-
Spoke of the past Thanksgiving, thought
with the Latter-day Saints that the day of
Thanksgiving was no different than any
other day, for with them it was continual
thanksgiving.
	Sister Mary Ann Hardy made the an-
nouncement that President Horne was ill
and was not able to attend the meeting this
afternoon; also bore her testimony. The
minutes of the previous meeting were read
and accepted.
	Counselor Webb was pleased to be here
today, had made a great effort to come.
Spoke of being charitable and loving to
one another and said when she had her lit-
tle ones taken from her she felt it was al-
most more than she could bear, but now
she was glad for she knew they were safe
and that she had some shining stars there.
She felt thankful on Thanksgiving day,
but not more so than every day, to think
she was gathered here with the Saints.
	Sister Derrick related the time when she
first joined the Church and bore her testi-
mony; also referred to her Temple work
and how she felt she could do so much
good.
	Sister Brixen said when she looked
around and saw the peaceful look on the
faces of the sisters it was a testimony to
her that the Spirit of the Lord was here.
Spoke of the good the Relief Society work 
had done for her, it had helped to make
her a better woman.
	Singing “Should you feel inclined to cen-
sure.” Sister Rawlings made some re-
marks. Sister Jane Thomas bore her testi-
mony and said her desire was to be faithful
and do all the good she could.
	Sister Julia Samson made a few remarks
of thanksgiving and rejoicing. Spoke of
the gathering of the Jews, said it was over
fifty years since President Orson Hyde dedi-
cated that land. She knew that these were
all signs of the coming of the Savior.
	Sister Goss related an instance of helping
a poor person who belonged to the Church
and urged the sisters to help all the poor
they could.
	Sister Barton felt blessed in coming to
meeting, and felt there was much in our
Gospel to help us. Bore her testimony.
Singing “Now’s the day of Israel.”
	Dr. E. S. Barney testified to her enjoyment
of the singing, for this she could hear best.
She felt the Lord could be praised by sing-
ing as much as by speaking. Said her de-
sire had always been to educate and lift up
humanity, and spoke of her trials in cross-
ing the plains but felt to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in all things.
	Sister Augusta J. Crocheron testified that
God heard and answered prayers, and re-
lated an instance of how her prayer
had been answered.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said a remark had
been made that caused her many reflections
in regard to Temple work. Felt God’s love
and mercy reached out to every one. Said


we were all God’s children. Related an
instance of a friend of hers who died out of
the Church, but whose work in the Temple
had been done for her. Gave a notice of
the Stake conference of the Relief Society
two weeks from today. Asked the Lord to
bless all those who come to these meetings,
that they might have more of the Spirit to
take to their homes.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson made closing re-
marks and meeting adjourned subject to
the call of the president. Benediction by
Sister Lydia D. Alder.
