ADDRDSS.

[By the President of the U. W. P. C.,
Dr. Romania B. Pratt]
	I APPEAR before you tonight with a deep
sense of appreciation of the courtesy of the
club in electing me as president for the en-
suing year.
	In a strict sense the name of Press Club
in our case is a misnomer, as so few of us
are regular or special correspondents or
contributors to newspapers or periodicals,
and only three of our number are bona-fide
editors. But as I understand the object of
the Utah Woman’s Press Club, it is not
only to create a current into which may
flow the ripe thoughts of those well skilled
in journalism, but to encourage, to draw
out, to open up the vista of mind of the less
experienced of the spirits, who may sit
dreaming good thoughts but are not self-
confident enough to pen them for others to
peruse and perhaps to profit by.
	Our club was organized six years ago by
that staunch friend of women Mrs. E. B.
Wells, editor of the “Woman’s Exponent.”
She is ever seeking to arouse the best efforts
of heart and brain in all around her and
labors incessantly for the advancement of
women at home and abroad. She was
president during the first two years and
another year following Dr. Shipp’s two
terms of successful work. Mrs. Ruth M.
Fox has most satisfactorily and pleasantly
conducted the club through the past year.
	The short period of our club life has been
productive of much research into various
topics beside writing up the most interest-
ing epochs of the times.
	The members have written many original
stories, sketches and poems of high literary
merit. In our poets corner we have heard
sweet thoughts flowing in sweet rythmic
music from the pens of Mrs. E. B. Wells
in “Autumnal Musings,” Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze in “Faded Faces,” Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp in “The Woman Preacher,” Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder in “Queen Victoria,” Dr.
Orielle Curtis in “Friends of the Press
Club,” Mrs. Ruth M. Fox in “Utah,” Miss
Josephine Spencer in “In the Green Street.”
and Mrs. Genevieve Lucile Brown in “The
Ruling Passion.”
	In the dreamy realms of fiction have
appeared Mrs. Wells, Mrs. Greenhalgh, Miss
Ada Patterson and others.
	In the art world we have been highly in-
terested by Miss S L. Monroe with a his-
tory of ceramics accompanied by an exhibi-
tion of exquisite specimens of different
national productions, Socially we have
been most daintily entertained at the home
of Mrs. I. Cameron Brown, wife of our
Senator to Congress, at Mrs. Dickinson’s
valentine party, at Dr. Shipp’s, at Mrs.
Fox’s and at Mrs. Miller’s.

