CHRISTMAS AND THE CHILDREN.

	CHILDRENS’ day we often hear on cer-
tain juvenile occasions, and somehow it has
come to be sort of proverbial to call Christ-
mas the childrens’ day and a very pretty
idea it is and appropriate too when it is ob-
served as the day on which the infant Jesus
was born in Bethlehem of Judea. Most of
the children of the present day are familiar
with the Madonna, some of those cheap
ones are very striking in beauty and are
gems in their way; it is good to have the
little ones comprehend as nearly as possible
the simple story of the babe in the manger
and his beautiful mother, and the story of
the shepherds watching their flocks by
night, and the wise men who saw the star in
the East and came to worship the new born
babe and brought precious gifts to him, be-
cause he was the Savior. No sweeter story
was ever told and it never grows old how
ever often it is repeated, and one never
tires of hearing it who has the spirit of the
Gospel.
	Christ loved little children and he told
his disciples, “Except ye become as these
little ones ye shall in no wise enter the
kingdom of heaven.” The very simplicity
of the language in which our Savior taught
the people clothes it with a significant
beauty and makes it all the more touching
to the human heart. All his sayings are
like precious gems cut and polished for the
setting and fitted in the places as though
carved for the special service. And there-
fore on this day set apart to celebrate his
birth, all our thoughts should be pure like
unto him and all our deeds good, and for
the good of those to whom we minister and
all our words should be kind and gentle and
loving.
	It is good to be happy and to make others
happy who are round about us, we should
try to do some little thing for others even
if we cannot do much and do it for a lov-
ing service, that we may walk in his foot-
steps and follow his perfect example of love
and blessedness.
	In doing these things children will learn
to love the Savior, and he will seem near
to them if they are always seeking to please
him and keep the “Golden Rule” he has
given to all of us, “Do to others as you
would they should do to you.” these
were the Savior’s words and this is the
teaching little children should receive, and
if they do these things happiness will come
even though every wish of their hearts has
not been gratified.
	Children of the present day have much

