[Column 2]
many testimonials were given of the purity
and uprightness of her life and character.
	THE State Kindergarten association held
its annual meeting in the City and County
Building on Saturday, December 18, Mrs.
Augusta W. Grant in the chair. After the
transaction of routine business, officers for
the ensuing year were elected, which re-
sulted as follows: Prof W. T. Stewart,
president. Mrs. Annie Ballantyne of Og-
den, and Mrs. Annie Craig of Provo, vice-
presidents; Carrie S. Thomas, secretary;
Mary E. Larson, corresponding secretary;
Mrs. Emma J. McVicker, treasurer, and a
board of directors. Prof. Stewart took the
chair and spoke earnestly for the associa-
tion and urged all to work for its advance-
ment and the spread of this educational
dea which lay at the foundation of the best
education.
	SOME of the Christmas displays in the
shop windows are vety artistic this year,
and scarcity of money does not seem to pre-
vent shopping so far as one looking on can
observe, so that the little people will be well
supplied with all kinds of gifts and dainties
when Santa Claus arrives, and judging
from the weather he will come on runners
this year with bells and all the parapher-
nalia of winter costume. The Z. C. M. I
windows are as gay or gayer than ever be-
fore; ribbons and laces show well and
wherever there is color it gives tone to the
entire stock of articles. R. K. Thomas al-
ways makes everything count in arranging
his goods, and although it may be said
quality is everything, yet if the article is
ever so fine and it is not displayed to ad-
vantage, it may remain without a purchaser
while the more common articles are sold
off. Goods must be seen and books too as
well. People are often persuaded into buy-
ing by seeing books handsomely arranged
in windows or in view of the customer.
	THE illustrated lecture in the Assembly
Hall given by Dr. J. E. Talmage upon
Rome on the evening of December 3, was a
delightful pastime and an instructive enter-
tainment. To hear so much that is inter-
esting in one lecture is quite out of the or-
dinary, but Dr. Talmage has the happy
faculty of making every word count, and
one goes from the lecture hall of such a
speaker enriched in thought and ideas as
well as information. The views are very
fine and really fascinating, one may gaze
upon them and imagine being in the fa-
mous city itself. Dr. Talmage showed his
kindness of heart and his interest in child
life in generously giving this lecture free
for the benefit of the Kindergarten, and the
ladies who are working so industriously
and persistently to establish this system of
education in Utah feel very grateful to the
Doctor for the service rendered, both at
this time and heretofore in behalf of this
work. In doing this work for the public
those engaged therein are working for the
betterment of humanity.
	THE U. W. P. C. held its regular meet-
ing on the evening of Nov. 30, at the
residence of Mrs. Annie M. Bradley (editor
of the Review) by her invitation. The
parlors were prettily decorated for the oc-
casion Dr. Romania B. Pratt, the newly
elected president, presided, as the secretary
was not present Dr. Ellis R. Shipp was
chosen secretary pro tem. Original senti-
ments on Thanksgiving were given by the
members. Mrs. Martha B. Jennings,


president of the State Federation was pres-
ent and many other invited guests. Dr. Pratt
read her valuable address in a most pleas-
ing manner which we give in full in this
issue of the paper. Mrs. Marineau recited
beautifully a Thanksgiving poem. Mrs.
Edith Rossiter also gave a recitation, and
Mrs. E. B. Wells read a Thanksgiving story
—also to be found in these columns.
	After the program dainty refreshments
were served to all, including pumpkin pie
and most delicious coffee. General conver-
sation was indulged in and the evening
passed in a delightful social visit.


