mother eagerly opened one after the other,
and as there were several in reply to in-
vitations to come home to Thanksgiving,
these were read first, and then all at once
looking up from her letters, Mrs. Went-
worth exclaimed, "After all Rosetta Stacy
says she's coming up here to Thanksgiving!
do you hear that father?" And the Squire
replied, "And so she's condescended to
come has she? well I declare, what a sur-
prise ! I must say her upstartishness beats
all I ever heard; what did you say mother
about her refusing last year when you
asked her? I remember she was pretty
impertinent."
"Well father, I told you she refused out
and out, and gave no reason except that she
hated the country in Winter, and it was
not fit for civilized people up here in the
woods anyway; that's just about what she
said only those might not be the exact
words."
"What did you ask her again for after
such a flat refusal, it's the same time o'year
and the weather is just the same in Novem-
ber any way, it's blustering cold most
times, gray and damp-like if it don't blow
like Sancho, why I'd have had too much
pride to ask her again; I'd like to know if
our girls arn't as good as she is any day, if
she has been to Smith College and got
away up in elocution and all that sort
o' thing; it beats me what the country's
coming to with such high falutin notions as
the young folks have nowadays, and our
own colleges even not good enough, they
must go abroad to finish."
"Well father I'll tell you why I sent
Rosetta another invitation as you seem to
resent it so, our boy, Fred is coming home
to Thanksgiving and he's over head and
ears in love with this stylish young woman,
you know how anxious you've been about
Fred's future, and he's all the boy we have
to keep up the family name, you've been
telling me that for the last six years ever
since he first went away to school, and he'll
never marry unless he can get Rosetta
Stacy. And so I determined to try once
more to have her come up here and see us,
you remember when she was a little girl
her mother would have her come for a
month or two once a year at least, to get
the fresh air and romp with the girls, and
'twas then Fred fell in love with her and
he's never cared about any girl since, and
he's seen plenty of them, as you know."
"Well now mother your explanation's all
very well, but the girls are all away now
and you haven't much help, that Carter
girl don't know how to wait on table, and
Fred's pretty particular himself, and you've
been cooking this whole week and there's
no chance of getting extra help at Thanks-
giving time, everybody wants their own at
home then if they're ever so poor, and if
Susan and Marian come home they'll be tir-
ed and everlastingly drumming on the piano
and then the others'll bring their babies,

[Column 3]

and by George, I don't want any citified,
stuckup young woman around; I'm mighty
sorry she's coming anyway, I wish she'd re-
fused again for my part."
"O don't say that father she'll soon be
here, and we've plenty of room so you can
have a good time with the babies and not
see much of her nor hear the piano either,
unless you want to, and now I think of it
the girls'll not play when Rosetta's here,
for she is a professional."
"How many professions has she got, she's
an elocutionist and a pianist, knows Greek
and Latin, we'll all stand in awe of her I
suppose, though her mother was my cousin
and born up here in the woods as she calls
it; and I'd like to have a little of Fred's
company myself. Let me see he's been
away most of the time now well on to six
years, and if he's going to settle in Boston
we wont see him very often, you and me
mother, we can't be going up and down to
Boston much its about time now we took
things easy."
Mrs. Wentworth loved her boy Fred
very much and she would willingly make
any sacrifice for him, but she did think
'twas too bad he was going to settle away
from them, she had always expected until
recently that he would stay near them but
he was very ambitious and there wasn't so
much chance forgetting on in the professions
in out of the way places, and as she sat in a
brown study thinking of that and of the old
times when the children were all at home,
and the Squire dropped asleep, and the
house was so still you might have heard a
pin drop but for the heavy breathing of the
sleeper, and Mrs. Wentworth took up
Fred's letter again and read it over and
the tears trickled down her face as she
thought of the days when they were all
around her and the noise and games and
merry laughter at even-time; and her own
happy motherhood, for she had been a fond
mother and her children had all grown up,
four were married now and had homes of
their own and little ones, and two were still
at school not far away and Fred, why he
was no longer a boy, his letter was like that
of a man of the world, and she realized
more than ever how utterly alone they were
after all the years that had passed.
	The maid came in to say tea was ready
and she brushed her tears away and woke
her husband, how many times it had been
so since the children were gone, but she
had not felt so depressed until of late. The
Squire seemed to have forgotten the near
approach of Thanksgiving and his wife was
glad to be left to her reveries, but ere the
meal was finished they were aroused by the
loud knocker, and a well known voice call-
ing "mother," and the buoyant young man
who had thrown off all restraint on reaching
his country home, made the empty house
resound with his hearty greetings.
"We didn't expect you so soon, not till
tomorrow anyway," said the Squire, "why
didn't you send a message, we never heard
the carriage wheels and the house so still,
how's that?"
"I came over on horseback from the


