RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	WE are called upon to record the death of our
beloved counselor, Sister Mary Dodds, who de-
parted this life Oct 27, 1897.
	Deceased was born in England in 1831, and
joined the Church in early days; emigrated to
Utah in 1859, coming with the last handcart m-
pany. She lived in Salt Lake City for a short
time, then moved to Goshen where she resided
up to the time of her demise. She leaves a hus-
band, four children and an adopt[-]d daughter to
mourn her loss, beside other relatives and friends.
   When our Relief Society was first organized
she was chosen as one of the teachers, and served
in that capacity until she was chosen second
counselor, which office she faithfully filled until
her death.
	She has been a great help to the presidents of
the Y. L. M. I. A., having the gift of speech she
was always able to give good and timely instruc-
tion and seemed to be inspired at all times, and
she was listened to with much attention by the
young ladies. Of late her health did not permit
her to attend the association.
	She was a very zealous worker in the Sunday
school for many years past and was loved by all
her pupils, for she had great ability in expound-
ing the scriptures, and made her class so inter-
esting that it was always full of attentive students.
She endeared herself also to the hearts of the
little ones in the Primary for her good advice,
kind expressions and prompt attendance.
	Soon after she joined the Church she enjoyed
the gift of prophecy, speaking in tongues and the
nterpretation thereof, and she was ever ready to
bear a strong and powerful testimony to the Gos-
pel of Christ, being gifted with speech it seemed
easy for her to unfold the things of God to her
hearers; she will therefore be greatly missed in
all our meetings.
	WHEREAS, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to take from our midst our beloved sister and co-
worker, we feel to bow in humble submission, for
we know our loss will be her gain. Therefore be
it,
	RESOLVED, That we offer our sympathy to the
bereaved family and ask God to comfort their
hearts that they may feel that she has gone from
their sight but for a moment, where she will min-
gle with those of her loved ones in her heavenly
home.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our records, one present[-]d to the
bereaved family and one sent to the “Woman's
Exponent” for publication.
	We will miss our much loved sister,
		There will be her vacant chair,
	May we live to meet in heaven,
		For our sister will be there.
				MARY JOHNSON, Pres.
