A WELCOME VISITOR.

	MRS. MARGARET F. STEEL, president of 
the Relief Society of the 1st Ward in Salt 
Lake City, recently received a visit from 
her sister from whom she had been separat- 
ed for more than forty years. Mrs. Wal-
worth, Mrs. Steel’s sister, resides at pre-
sent in Andover, Mass., and is a member
of the Congregational church at that place.
Formerly she lived at Lawrence where her
husband was engaged in manufacturing
dress goods. It was at Lawrence, Mass.,
that the sisters parted when Mrs. Steel
came to Utah. Mrs. Walworth arrived
November 5, and the following Sunday at-
tended the fast meeting in the 1st Ward, and
spoke a few moments of her pleasure in
being in their midst. Afterwards she spoke
in the Relief Society meeting in that ward
and said she was proud of her sister presid-
ing over such a Society, organized for works
of charity.
	Mrs. Walworth in visiting places of in-
terest visited the Hall of Relics in which
she found great pleasure, and in fact she
enjoyed all she saw and heard while here,
and thinks she may return here if she can
make satisfactory disposal of her property
in the East. John Farquahar, brother of
Mrs. Steel, is a prominent citizen in Glas-
gow, Scotland, having been City Council-
man for many years and now holds the
office of Bailif for life appointed by the
queen.
	Brother and Sister Alexander Steel are
old residents of Salt Lake City and highly
respected, and although they have no fam-
ily except themselves they are happy in
each other’s society and as members of the
Church of Jesus Christ with which they be-
came identified years ago in their native
land, which they left to gather with the
Saints in Zion.


A MOVEMENT is now on foot in St. Louis
Mo., to secure a medal of honor from Con-
gress for Mrs. Delina Roberts, of 4267
Chouteau Avenue, for heroic action during
the Civil War, when she was only sixteen
years old. President McKinley has laid
the matter before the War Department, and
it is expected that it will be acted upon
soon after Congress assembles.


