[Column 1]
Counselor L. M. Hart; Laketown, Pres-
Hodges; Montpelier, Pres. Hoganson;
Ovid, Pres. Carlson.
	Stake Counselor Elizabeth Collings ex-
pressed her gratitude for the privilege of
being at conference and felt thankful for a
standing in the kingdom of God. She had
often wondered why one so weak as she
had been called to the position she had oc-
 cupied so long. Desired to do her duty, be
humble and submissive, emphasized the
necessity of doing the work for our dead.
	Stake Counselor L. M. Hart felt thank-
ful for the hope she had of an exaltation
in the kingdom of God. She had been in-
terested in listening to the reports and
hoped the presidents who were absent had a
reasonable excuse. Said if we would leave
some unnecessary work undone and devote
more time to the improvement of the mind
it would be to our advantage. We should
use every moment we could for the study
of the principles of the Gospel; she knew
that if she lived up to these principles she
could go before her Father in heaven and
ask for blessings, for her prayers had been
answered many times. We want our mem-
bers to be pure and holy, not only in deed
but in thought, for the spirit of God cannot
dwell in unholy tabernacles. Admonished
all to be alive to their duties today for life
is uncertain. Invoked the blessings of
heaven upon all.
	Singing “Come let us anew our journey
pursue.” Benediction by Elder Bagley.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Meeting called
 to order by President Lindsay. After the
usual opening exercises President Lindsay
expressed the pleasure she felt in seeing a
larger attendance this afternoon, had noticed
in listening to some of the reports that the
average attendance was not half. Would
be thankful if some plan could be suggested
that would create more interest among the
sisters with regard to attending their meet-
ings. The counsel at the conference in
Salt Lake City which she had recently at-
tended was that if we had grain in good
condition we should keep it, also that we
 establish some plan that those who need
help may have something to do in return
for that which they receive, we should see
that no one suffers. Asked the Lord to
bless us all.
	Sister Mary Bagley said she always felt
blest in attending these meetings. Bore
testimony that the Relief Society had been
a great blessing to her, it had helped her to
be a better wife and mother and teach her
children truths that she could not have
taught them if she had not been connected
with this noble organization. There are
trials that we are not able to surmount
without the assistance of our Heavenly
Father and the kind words of our brothers
 and sisters. Desired to do her duty through
all circumstances.
	Sister Amelia Hoge bore a faithful testi-
mony to the divinity of the work in which
we are engaged, felt her weakness when at-
 tempting to address the sisters but was de-
sirous of performing her duties to the best
of her ability.
	Sister N. E. Pugmire felt very pleased to
be at the conference. Exhorted mothers to
be very careful of the example they set be-
fore their children, they sometimes unknow-
ingly sow seeds of unbelief in the hearts of
their children. She felt blest in meeting
with the sisters of the Relief Society, and
said how much we should miss Sister Lind-
say and others who have labored among us

