[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE sudden and almost tragic death of
the French author and critic Alphonse
Daudet, on Thursday, December 16, 1897,
while at dinner with his family in the
midst of domestic enjoyment must bring to
mind the saying “In the midst of life we
are in death.” Daudet is said to have
been the finest critic of the present day.
	THE burning of Dover castle on Decem-
ber 14, must be a great loss of many valu-
able works of art of historic value. It is
one of the most notable places in England,
containing such rare articles as cannot
again be replaced. As the fire was extin-
guished before night perhaps many of the
most valuable articles of other periods and
antique date may have been preserved.
	BY all means let the little people see the
windows with toys and such like curiosities
at Christmas time. There is no occasion
more inspiring to good deeds and tender
thoughts for the children than when pre-
parations are going forward towards this
world-wide festive as well as sacred cele-
bration. Let the children be happy on this
special day and prompt them to deeds of
love, charity and forgiveness. All that is
best in the child shows itself under such
cheerful conditions. It is hard work to be
ill-tempered at Christmas because the sur-
roundings are usually pleasant.
	THE life and labors of Sister Aurelia S.
Rogers is now in the hands of the publish-
ers and will be ready before very long.
Sister Rogers has been assisted in her work
by Sister L. L. Greene Richards who has
given the matter and its arrangement care-
ful oversight, and the book will be useful to
the children of Zion as well as interesting
to older readers. It will contain pictures of
Elder Orson Spencer, one of the ablest min-
isters of the Gospel in former days, and of
the author, Aurelia Spencer Rogers and
Ellen Curtis Spencer Clawson, her elder
sister.
	MRS. AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON has
written a poem entitled “The Exodus and
Jubilee,” which it is hoped will be printed
in some form perhaps in pamphlet style to
be circulated among the people. It is a
complete history in brief and in verse, of
the pilgrimage and labor of the Saints in
settling the desert places and establishing
a commonwealth. We shall be very glad
to see it in some suitable form such as the
merit of the work deserves. Mrs. Croche-
ron has written many poems, stories and
other articles, valuable contributions to our
home literature, but this work seems to us
(perhaps because of the subject) her very
best.
	THE death of Mrs. Nancy Alison Mc-
Kinley during the present month and so
near the holiday season December 12, will
have a depressing effect upon the residents
of the White House. From all one can
learn from newspaper reports the President
was fondly attached to his mother and had
ever been a dutiful and devoted son. The
floral offerings given prove she was beloved
by many, and the attention of the President
coming and going as he did, is proof of the
strength of his affection. Mrs. McKinley
had lived to a ripe old age and has gone to
her rest covered with honors. She was
born April 27, 1809, and died December 12,
1897, at Canton, Ohio. At her funera-

