[Column 2]
Mrs. Wentworth cried until her eyes were
very red and her head ached for want of
sleep, but neither the Squire nor his wife
had a word to say about the changes for
Fred was master of the situation evidently;
and though his mother was curious to know
about the minister she dreaded to ask, and
he had not even told them his name nor
how it was the marriage was to take place
up in the country so hurriedly, but towards
evening when the workmen were gone and
there seemed to be a lull in the noise and
bustle and Mrs. Wentworth was ready to
drop with fatigue, the last straw was added
by Fred informing them that the minister
was a Unitarian and so were all the Stacys,
and that was why he had decided to have
one from Boston, knowing there were only
orthadox ministers in Wendell. The
Squire was “awfully upset,” as he ex-
pressed it afterwards, and Mrs. Wentworth
cried until near bedtime “and to think of it,
after all the teachings her boy had that he
should consent to such a thing,” was her
comment to her husband who kept silent
on the subject.
	Late that night another greater surprise
came, it was near midnight and they sat
talking in the great oaken dining room
when a knock like thunder came at the
door, and even the old Squire brave as he
was started to his feet calling out in a
trembling voice, “who’s there.” Mrs.
Wentworth was shivering with fear, but
Fred had rushed thro’ the hall to the door
in a moment and ushered in the stranger,
a gruff voice and foreign accent and yet to
the Squire something familiar in the tones,
and Fred without ceremony announced
Uncle Edward Wentworth, all the way
from South Africa. The Squire would
have fallen had not Fred caught him and
carefully seated him; he couldn’t speak at
first and Mrs. Wentworth looked as if she
had seen a ghost. It was indeed as tho’
one had risen from the dead. The brother
had been gone for more than fifty years, he
had run away when a lad, and hearing
after some years of the death of his father,
his mother having died when he was very
young previous to his escapade, he had
roamed about in foreign parts seeking his
fortune and not finding it, and at last hav-
ing made a lucky hit and realized wealth,
all at once he had a desire to know bow it
had fared with his folks in America. Ar-
riving in Boston only a few days before he
looked over the newspaper and saw the
name of Fred Wentworth of Wendell, son
of Squire Wentworth, who had figured
conspicuously in politics in early days. It
was an announcement of young Went-
worth’s engagement to Miss Stacy, the only
daughter of a wealthy shipping merchant
whose wife (the girl’s mother) was a cousin
of Squire Wentworth. He pushed his in-
quiries further and hunted up the young
man, and was introduced to the Stacys, and
of course his cousin Adelaide was glad to
see him and Miss Stacy was romantic
enough to fancy the rich bachelor uncle her
mother’s cousin, and after that everything
went on swimmingly with the young folks,
and the uncle and nephew arranged to
keep the matter a secret and not give the
newspapers a chance to publish it until
they were safe out of Boston.
	Squire Wentworth and his brother sat up
all that night talking over old times, and
Fred whose secret was now exploded slept
soundly; even poor Mrs. Wentworth
thoroughly exhausted with the happenings
and confusion after the lonely quiet to

[Column 3]
which she had become accustomed of late,
rested better than usual. As a matter of
fact she had as she thought fixed comforta-
bly for every guest, for the house was large
and roomy, and she only wondered now
what was to be done with the new comer,
and she declared to herself as she was fall-
ing asleep that he didn’t look as if he ever
had slept in a bed, muffled up as he was in
furs, and so dreaming of diamonds and the
Boers of South Africa of which her brother
in law had been talking when she retired
for the night, she fell into a profound and
restful sleep.
	Morning came foggy and dismal but the
house was bright and cheery and every-
thing in “apple pie order” the Squire said.
The girls arrived fresh from school at
Greenfield, and their dainty ways in ar-
ranging the pictures, flowers etc.. were
quite refreshing. “No nonsense about our
girls,” their father remarked to mamma,
“I wouldn’t tolerate it in them, and
Greenfield is a staid, old town not like
Boston and seaside places.” But indeed
the girls were not so very young, and the
father who looked upon Marian as almost a
baby tho’ even she was over twenty, re-
marked to the mother “he was mighty glad
there were no young fellows dangling after
them.”
	The girls were as much surprised at the
sudden transition in the house as the old
folks and much more delighted, their uncle
was simply charming, in story telling es-
pecially; it was like a romance and Susan
who was inclined to be literary declared
she would write it up in a story and people
would think it wasn’t real at all.
	Towards evening the crowd began to
come and before the last train from Boston
all the married daughters had arrived and
were posted on the affairs of the family.
Uncle Edward explained some things and
told stories of his travels and played with
the little folks, and promised them stores of
goodies; and Fred took upon himself to tell
his sisters of the nuptials about to be sol-
emnized, and later ran down to the station
with the carriage sent to meet the bridal
party.
	The Carters and the help had set the
neighborhood gossiping, and those who had
usually been invited when there was any
great doings at Squire Wentworth’s were in
a flutter of excitement about an invitation to
the wedding, and altogether the whole affair
proved to be a “nine days’ wonder.” Even
the wedding cake was sent from Boston,
and all sorts of fruits and dainties the great
city afforded at that season.
	The guests were late for the drive was
long and the country roads rough, and the
ladies unaccustomed to jostling, the drivers
must be careful Fred had told them, and so
the coming was slow and tedious. Over
the Wentworth home there was a hush of
expectancy during the interval, and though
there was so much to talk about the only
one who seemed inclined to converse was
Uncle Edward; he had the easy, careless
air of of a man to whom no surprise brings
seriousness. At last the carriages driving
up the lane was a signal for all to be on
hand and the great piazza was full of peo-
ple as the guests alighted, and as the night
air was damp and cold, the hour late and
the travelers weary the greetings were ex-
ceedingly formal and perhaps a trifle dis-
tant, at any rate somewhat embarrassing.
	After a light supper, and a really deli
cious one, the guests were shown to thei
apartments and the minister who had n


