COLONIAL TEA PARTY.

	ON Thursday, December 16, 1897, the
anniversary of the Boston Tea Party, in
1773, Mrs. E. B. Wells, who had issued in-
vitations to thirty ladies, gave a Colonial
Tea at her residence in East Waterloo to
celebrate the occasion. The guests were
all New England women or descendants of
New Englanders. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, who has recently returned from
her visit to Canada, was present and she is
a direct descendant of Samuel Huntington,
one of the signers of the Declaration of In-
dependence—Mrs. Jane S. Richards of
Ogden, who on the maternal side is descend-
ed from the famous Comstock family of
New England, and there were others
present who can claim the best of Puritan
blood, one whose ancestor came in the cele-
brated Mayflower, others whose forefathers
were governors and members of Continent-
al Congresses before the Revolution.
	The costumes were colonial or nearly
so, ringlets and high combs were worn and


quaint old jewelry, reticules, shawls and
laces; and as one lady humorously remark-
ed, “old-fashioned faces.”
	The program was quite original in style
and commenced with the company joining
in singing “America.” Mrs. Annie W.
Cannon read the poem entitled “A Colonial
Tea,” which begins:

	“There was an old lady lived over the sea,  
		And she was an island queen,
	Her daughter lived off in a new country,
		With an ocean of water between.”

	The burden of this song is the three pen-
ny tax on tea and ending with telling the
queen she could have her tea when it was
steeped enough but not the tax. Mrs.
Isabel Buchholz read “The Boston Tea
Party,” a very pretty story in verse.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt gave quite a dissertation
on the whole affair, beginning with the
stamp act and going through the entire his-
tory of the treachery of Gen. Hutchinson
and other traitors, the meeting in Faneuil
Hall and Old South Church, the eloquent
speeches by Josiah Quincy and others, to the
time when the three ship loads of tea were
poured into the sea.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp spoke of her visit to
Boston and Plymouth in 1895, and de-
scribed Plymouth Rock and so forth, the
hostess offering some explanations on the
subject and giving her idea of these historic
places and mementoes.
	Miss Pearl Russell sang “I cannot sing
the old songs,” etc., very sweetly indeed.
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze read some verses she
had composed for the occasion that were
very appropriate
	Little Louise B. Cannon sang “The
Good old Days of Yore,” with gestures etc.,
and little Margaret Cannon recited “That’s
the Way of the World You Know.” Other 
ladies present gave expression to patriotic
sentiments or told anecdotes, and the time
passed merrily. Refreshments were strictly
in New England style, Boston brown-bread
and butter, plain cake and fruit, and as it
was treason to drink tea, all guests were
served with hot water unless they preferred
cold.


