The New Year
The pendulum of time has measured the arc of another year. Before the pendulum starts on its return swing, it pauses, in mid-air, for an instant. We, too, at the dividing point of the two periods, should pause a few moments to review the events of the closing year and to study the possibilities of the approaching months. We should, in retrospection, survey our individual attainments and shortcomings and, in the light of the experience of the past, and in our anticipation of the future, we should determine as far as possible what our plans and aspirations are to be.
The backward glance may be one of satisfaction or one of regret. Some of us may have met disappointment, may have erred in some way, or may have lost courage. Others of us may be able to view the past with joy and serenity, for the days of the year now gone may have contributed to our growth, development, and progress. The days of the past knit themselves into a finished fabric, and an observation of the individual days will reveal the kind of material with which we weave. Every day should be woven with the enduring and lustrous threads of steady faith and constant labor; periods of indifference and lassitude rob the finished product of its sheen and beauty.
A study of the past is always enlightening. Although last year's fabric cannot be changed, that of the new year is yet unspun. A view of the past may make us more cognizant of life's purposes, and may give us a desire to spin the threads of life, of each yet unborn day, in such a manner that we will be proud of the finished whole. The unlived future should awaken in us higher ideals; it should stir us with lofty aspirations; it should inspire us with courage; it should fill us with hope for the future and with faith in our powers.
To the General Board of Relief Society a backward glance of the year's work of the Relief Society is one of satisfaction and gratitude; satisfaction with the earnest labors and notable achievements of the various organizations; and gratitude to the officers


and members of the organizations for their labors in the Relief Society and for their devotion to the high ideals for which it stands. The loyalty, the steadfastness, the unselfishness, the service, and the faith which have always characterized the women of the Relief Society, have been present during the last year in a marked degree. The women have been true to the beautiful and inspiring heritage of the past.
The Relief Society, too, should take a forward look. It should resolve to maintain the ideals and standards which have developed in the growth of the Society. Every member should strive to emulate the lives of the revered characters who advanced the Relief Society work, to continue the spirit of their work, and to prove worthy of the traditions they have handed down to us. And with a trust inspired by the Relief Society's glowing heritage, every member should see in the future a continued growth and progression, to which she should aspire to contribute.
It is our prayer at this time, dear sisters, that new hope and courage may come to those who have met sorrow and discouragement, and that continued faith in the gospel, and strength of purpose may attend those who have been staunch and true. May the light of truth and testimony burn bright in the hearts of all, guiding us on the onward, upward path of righteousness and eternal progression.
GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY.