is more than poetry, it is truth?God's truth. And if the mother's eyes were opened as were the eyes of the servant of Elisha she would see by vision what she now sees by faith. Ministering Angels. (By President Joseph F. Smith) "We are told by the Prophet Joseph Smith, that 'there are no angels who minister to this earth but those who do belong or have belonged to it.' Hence, when messengers are sent to minister to the inhabitants of this earth, they are not strangers, but from the ranks of our kindred, friends, and fellow-beings and fellow-servants. The ancient prophets who died were those who came 'to visit their fellow creatures upon the earth. They came to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; it' was such beings? holy beings, if you please?that waited upon the Savior and administered to him on the Mount. The angel that visited John, when an exile, and unfolded to his vision future events in the history of man upon the earth, was one who had been here, who had toiled and suffered in common with the people of God; for you remember that John, after his eyes had beheld the glories of the great future, was about to fall down and worship him, but was peremptorily forbidden to do so. 'See thou do it not; for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book: worship God.' (Rev. 22:9.) Jesus has visited the people of this earth from time to time. He visited and showed himself in his spiritual body to the brother of Jared, touching certain stones with his finger, that the brother of Jared had fashioned out of the rock, making them to give light to him and his people in the barges in which they crossed the waters of the great deep to come to this land. He visited others at various times before and after he tabernacled in the flesh. It was J?sus who created this earth, it therefore is his inheritance, and he had a perfect right to come and minister to inhabitants of this earth. He came in the meridian of time and tabernacled in the flesh, some 33 years among men, introducing and teaching the fulness of the gospel, and calling upon all men to follow in his footsteps; to do the same thing that he himself did, that they might be worthy to inherit with him the same glory. After he suffered the death of the body, he appeared, not only to his disciples and others on the eastern continent, but to the inhabitants of this continent, and. He ministered unto them as he did to the people in the land of Palestine. In like manner our fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, and friends who have passed away from this earth, having been faithful, and worthy to enjoy these rights and privileges, may have a mission given them to visit their relatives and friends upon the earth again, bringing from the divine Presence messages of love, of warning, of reproof and instruction, to those whom they had learned to love 
 in the flesh. And so it is with Sister Cannon. She can return and visit her friends, provided it be in accordance with the wisdom of the Almighty. There are laws to which they who are in the Paradise of God must be subject, as well as laws to which we are subject. It is our duty to make ourselves acquainted with those laws, that we may know how to live in harmony with his will while we dwell in the flesh, that we may be entitled to come forth in the morning of the first resurrection, clothed with glory, immortality and eternal lives, and be permitted to sit down at the right hand of God, in the kingdom of heaven. And except we become acquainted with those laws, and live in harmony with them, 'we need not expect to enjoy these privileges."?Gospel Doctrine, pages 548, 549. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Show that angels were used in heaven to enforce God's authority. 2. What is the necessity for guardian angels on earth? 3. Give an instance of an army of angels guarding a city. 4, Give scriptural proof that reserves of guardian angels ?, are ever ready to come at the call of the Lord. 5. Look up the proof of this statement: "Gabriel is Noah, the first ancestor of our race after the flood." Doc. And Cov. Commentary, p. 623. 6. Name some of the evident duties of guardian angels. 7. What part did a guardian angel play in protecting Mary from public disgrace? 8. Prove from Sec. 3 of Doctrine and Covenants that admonition is a duty of a guardian being. 9, Give evidence that Jesus had guardian angels. 10. Show that guardian angels keep alert to the intentions and actions of the enemy. 11. If guardian angels can read the thoughts of the evil minded when necessary, what about their knowledge of our intentions and actions? 12. To whom is the privilege given to become ministering angels on this earth? 13. Discuss the consistency of leaving the visitation of the dead with the Lord. 14. Of what advantage is it to a child to be taught the doctrine of guardian angels?