the Relief Society, for this evening until midnight, or until sometime in the night, when I will be relieved by another sister, who will bring other things that will be needful during the latter part of the night and for the morning meal." And I said, "Is this being done throughout the settlement by the Relief Society?" She said, "Yes." And I added, "and none are neglected?" "No, not one, all are provided for. Yes, all are provided for to the best of our ability." And I said in my heart, God bless the Relief Society. I felt that the Lord would bless them, because they were doing their duty to the sick and to the afflicted. Well, these are temporal 
 things, and there are other things spiritual, which are even more essential, if possible, at times, than are the mere temporal wants. God bless the Relief Society. The Lord bless the General Board, and help them to see eye to eye, to be united and to put away all jealousy, and every spirit of strife, to be united to help one another, to be forgiving, as we hope to be forgiven, one towards another; that union, love, and concord may prevail at the head, and may from the head permeate throughout all the stakes and name wards of' Zion. Amen. of Jesus. which may God grant, I humbly pray, in the  The Relief Society. (A Summary of the organization of the L. D. S. Relief Society.) By invitation of the President of the Church, Joseph Smith. the Prophet, a number of sisters convened in the Masonic lodge room, Nauvoo, on the 17th day of March, 1842. President Joseph Smith, Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards were present. John Taylor was called to the chair and Willard Richards acted as secretary. After singing and prayer a vote was taken to know if all were satisfied with each sister present and willing to acknowledge them in good fellowship and admit them to all the privileges of the institution about to be organized. All being satisfied the names of those present were taken as follows: Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira A. Coles. Sarah H. Cleveland, Phebe Ann Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook. Desmonda Fuller, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Sarah H. Kimball. Elizabeth Jones, Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow, Sophie Packard. Bathsheba W. Smith. Sophia Robinson, Philinda Herrick, Phebe H. Wheeler and Sophia R. Marks. President Smith then explained some of the duties that would devolve on the members of the Society; said they should provoke the brethren to good work; look after the needs of the poor, perform charitable acts, and assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. Said it was in order for the sisters to elect a president to preside over the Society, and that she should choose two counselors to assist in the duties of her office. He would ordain them and let them preside just as the Presidency presides over the Church, and if the sisters needed his instruction, they should ask and he would be pleased to give it from time to time. The Presidency of the Relief Society should stand as a constitution and their decisions become precedent for the Society to act upon. If officers are wanted to carry out the deTHE RELIEF SOCIETY. 21 signs of the institution, they should be appointed and set apart as teachers, deacons, etc., are among us. Elizabeth A. Whitney moved and Sophia Packard seconded the motion that Emma Smith should be elected President of the Society. The vote was put and pronounced unanimous. The president-elect made choice of Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as her counselors. Eliza R. Snow was appointed secretary and Elvira Coles treasurer. ' President Smith read the revelation to Emma Smith from the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and stated that she was ordained at the time the revelation was given to expound the scriptures, to teach, etc. He then read scriptures to show that an elect lady is one elected to preside. By request of President Joseph Smith, Apostle Taylor ordained Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Whitney to be counselors to and assist President Emma Smith in the duties of her office and share in the blessings pertaining thereto. He then confirmed on Emma Smith her former ordination and blessed her to be a mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue and to possess all the qualifications necessary to enable her to preside with dignity and give such instructions as may be requisite in her calling as an elect lady. Elder Taylor vacated the chair and President Emma Smith and counselors took the stand. A lengthy discussion followed on the question: ''What shall this Society be called?" Mrs. Cleveland and Mrs. Whitney advocated the appropriateness of the name Relief Society. John Taylor and President Smith spoke in favor of Benevolent. Emma Smith and E. R. Snow argued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland's choice. The gentlemen withdrew their objections and a motion to adopt the name of Relief Society was unanimously carried. President Smith President: "I now All then and said Counselors. who this declare organized Society shall hereafter with be admitted must be free from censure and admitted by vote." President Joseph Smith laid down a five-dollar gold piece to commence a Relief Society fund, and said: "What I do hereafter for charity, I shall do through this Society." Sarah A. Cleveland gave $12.50; Sarah H. Kimball $1.00; Emma Smith, $1.00; Elizabeth A. Whitney, 50 cents; Willard Richards, $1.00; John Taylor, $2.00. President Smith said: "I will give a city lot on which the Society can build, will make the deed to the treasurer." (Note. — We will present full minutes of this and other Relief Society meetings in Nauvoo, in our March number, which will be a special Organization number.