THE POET'S PRAYER.

God of my Fathers! Friend of human kind!
Almighty moulder of creative mind!
That sitt’st enthroned aloft from mortal ken,
Showering Thy mercies on the sons of men!

Thou who of old unloosed the prophet’s tongue, 
While Daniel prophesied, while David sung,
That saith to all—oh simple, pleasing task!— 
“If any lack for wisdom, let him ask;"— 
If prayer like mine find favor in thy sight,
If I have loved, and longed for wisdom’s light,
And Thou, to whom no creature crieth vain,
Hath deemed my soul deserving care or pain;
To thee, my Father, hands and voice I lift,
And crave of thee, Almighty God, a gift.
Not worldly wealth, though wealth of worlds be Thine,
Nor gilded rank, ’mong human worms to shine,
For wealth might fall, and rank might purchased be,
But not the guerdon I would win from Thee.

Be Thou my Muse! None other would I know—
Eternal Fount of all inspiring flow! —
Whose voice it was bade Seer of Patmos "Write"
Such things as never mortal dared indite,		
Or grander than old Ocean’s glorious swell, 
Rolled through Isaiah’s themes on Israel;
On whose high altar flames the sacred fire, 
Whose vivid rays inventive dreams inspire,
Unhonored oft, yet evermore the same, 
Omnific Light that lumines earth with fame.

On bended knee before that altar now,
In Jesus' mighty name I meekly bow,
Great God, give ear! Judge Thou my heart's intent, 
For I am weak, but Thou Omnipotent.
Whilst o’er my task, in feeble frame I bend,
Be Thou my Guide, my Counselor, my Friend;
Teach me true gold to separate from dross,
Accounting gain what many scorn as loss. 
Thou who endow’d’st me with receptive soul,	
O’er all its pow’rs possess me of control,	
From off this brain remove each hampering coil,
Or image vain that lingers but to soil; 
Let heavenly Thought descend as Hermon's dews,
With loftier themes my vision to infuse,
My fainting soul with fresh aspiring fill,
Its every wish submissive to thy will,
Its main desire to magnify thy laws,
Its crowning aim thy Kingdom and thy Cause.

Roll on my days responsive to thy rule,
This tongue thine oracle, this pen thy tool— 
Designed to soar, or doomed to lowly plod— 
Amanuensis of the mind of God. 
 						O. F. WHITNEY.
London, January, 1882.


[Column 1]
