THE POWER OF PRAYER.

	Prayer is the key that will unlock the state-
house of knowledge.
	It is the foundation rock of every Christian's
life; and we can safely say that there is no one
that can attain to a position of usefulness in
the kingdom of God without knowledge.
	We learn that our Savior, whom we should
all chose as our pattern, prayed often, and in
the Gospel according to St. Luke, chap. 22,
verses 39 and 40, after He had administered
the last supper to His Apostles, we read: "And
He came out and went, as was His wont, to the
Mount of Olives, and His disciples also fol-
lowed Him; and when He was at the place He
said unto them, 'Pray, that ye enter not into
temptation.'"
	We learn from these few words spoken by
our Savior, that prayer is also a safeguard, that
will withhold us in the hour of temptation,
from doing evil.
	Through prayer, our faith is strengthened
and our powers of comprehension are quick-
ened, and we receive power to discern good
from evil.
	Through prayer, we are led to search for
truth, and learn to love and keep the laws of
righteousness laid down in His Church and
Kingdom, through which we may be brought
back into the holy and divine presence of our 
God.
	Through prayer, the windows of heaven un-
close, and blessings are showered down upon
our heads and upon those we love and pray
for.
	Through prayer, the darkness that had hov-
ered over this earth for ages burst, and the
light of everlasting truth shone forth; for it
was while Joseph Smith, then but a boy, was
praying to God to know which of all the differ-
ent doctrines that he had heard preached was
true, that truth was revealed, that those who
lived in the days of Joseph, the Prophet,
should know the truth, and for generations to
come.
	If you will read the Bible, the Book of Mor-
mon, and other good books, you will learn that
all good and great people were those who
prayed to God; for it is the only way to become
good and great. And; my young friends, it is
well for you to remember, while traveling on
this journey of life, that there is no prison so
dark, no pit so deep, no expanse so broad, that
the Spirit of God cannot enter; and when all
other privileges are denied us, we can pray,
and God will hear us. No one can take this
from us. But remember it is a most precious
gift, it is something that must be cultivated;
and when the still, small voice whispers, "Go
and pray," you must obey; for if you do not, 
the Spirit will be grieved, and the voice in time
becomes silent.
	Should you at any time find yourself over-
whelmed with disappointment and sorrow, re-
member, that although your prayers may be
like the wailings of the most feeble infant, God,
being more loving than the most tender mother,
will hear and answer you. But we cannot say
that He will always answer according to the
desires of your mind; but in His great wisdom
He sees and knows what is for your best good,
and will answer according to His wisdom.
	To the young we will say, be prayerful; ask
God to inspire your hearts with noble aspira-
tions, and to help you to become good and
great in His Church and Kingdom. And
when you are done with this life, may you find
that spirit of peace which was with our Lord


when He appeared to His disciples, after the
resurrection, when He spoke those sweet words,
"Peace be unto you."
	May god give you His Spirit, that you may
seek unto Him, is my prayer, in the name of 
Jesus.  Amen.
	Your loving sister,
