CONTINUED.

	Months have intervened since I wrote my
first section of the article under this heading;
during that time I have written little besides
private correspondence. I explained in a let-
ter in the Exponent, which my friends will
remember; and now I must request my readers
to refer back to the commencement of the arti-
cle, that they may gather up the dropt threads
of the subject. I think I have referred to the
purity of the atmosphere, but my friends will
pardon me if I exhibit a little tautology; to
me the subject is inspiring, for nothing has
more impressed me in nature in this region
than its marvelous atmosphere; especially
when the year is vernal, or autumnal. It
makes a remarkable impression on me; at times
I feel it like the wings of some beautiful bird

[Column 2]
of rich and soft plumage overshadowing me,
and I love to sit calmly for a few moments,
that I may inhale the sweet influence it throws
around! It seems to whisper in the stillest,
smallest voice of joy, of peace, of heaven and
heavenly things, of bygone days, with their
dial noting the sunny hours of life! of the
loved and loving, "passed into the skies!" and
present happiness and present possessions, it
makes fuller and richer still; yes; it has a
language that speaks to my spirit of all that
is highest and holiest in this sublunary state of
being. My epitome of it is—and I say it with
all reverence—the Spirit of God breathes
in it! And this beauty is not by fitful moods
and gleams, like an European atmosphere, but
will continue for weeks, sometimes for months;
and hence the beauty of our gardens is not
invaded by sudden storms, when a large amount
of labor and expense and gorgeous beauty is
all destroyed in an hour, often much less. I
have observed that the European physique,
mental and physical, improves and refines un-
der this climate; though that probably is greatly
assisted by the "Word of Wisdom," which is
taught and practically carried out by a great
many of our people; all the elements of lon-
gevity are here in rich profusion, and health
abounds.
	Oh, the nights! let me not forget those glo-
rious nights, when tha lunar orb is sailing thro'
the broad expanse in her car of blue and sil-
ver, of gold and precious gems; through which
we almost fancy we can gaze into the presence
chamber of the Grand Architect of the uni-
verse; and certainly feel we are nearer heaven!
	In many past ages this has been a volcanic
region, though all that is extinct and passive,
but the traces of such are still visible. The
mountains that surround us like protective
walls are undulating and irregular, and the
lights and shadows cast upon them by the re-
flection of the sun render their tints purple
lurid, or a silver grey, as the hour of the day
dictates the pencil. To me, these mountains,
with their snowy scalps, have also a language:
some speak of life, of energy, of might, and
power, of warfare and the roar of the cataract,
and the rush of the torrent—now silent and
extinct; others breathe a repose, a rest, a calm,
that shadows forth the rest of the Christian
when the "mortal coil" is "shuffled off." One
high hill, almost perpendicular in its ascent,
bursting out as it were from the tops of the
mountains, is called "Ensign Peak;" from the
summit of this you get an entire and unbroken
view of the city and the surrounding country;
it is indeed a spot to realize "the world forget-
ting, by the world forgot." Here is a perfect
freedom indeed. It is a spot in which to spend
hours of meditation: a spirit meets you there
that cannot be found in a crowded city, or in
halls of pleasure; you feel you are in a temple
"not made with hands," its dome the blue con-
cave of heaven, its kneeling place the footstool
of earth. Away the eye rolls over one class of
mountains, clothed in a vesture of royal pur-
ple; on the other side they are enveloped in a
veil of mist, and their base dreamy and ob-
scure—such as Claude Lorraine loved to paint,
drawing the mind to contemplate that bright,
beautiful, but mystic and obscure eternity to
which we are all so rapidly hastening! Let-
ting the eyes drop into the valley, we there see
a tortuous, dark line, rolling in coils, like a
huge serpent, named by the pioneers the river
Jordan! Away higher up runs a bar of shin-

[Column 3]
ing silver, sufficient to line every cloud that
may overhang the region, whether individual
or collective; this is composed of the rays of
the sun upon the beautiful Salt Lake. Then
the eye descends upon the city, the tops of
whose highest buildings you can in imagination
walk over. In my rapturous feelings I could
imagine one huge building "the Coliseum;" and
the noble, but unfinished Temple, that most
unique structure is looming up, and speaking
to the Latter-day Saints of a grand and impor-
tant FUTURE! And now the eye rests on the
elegant towers of the Assembly Hall, on the
same block as the Temple; then wanders to the
left, and rests upon the large and well-designed
Theatre; its internal arrangements denote a
consideration for the comfort and accommoda-
tion of the artists who may occupy it, and is a
building worthy of the metropolis of Utah.
Fine and beautiful private dwellings abound in
this city of the desert; and reflections naturally
fill the mind of the beholder (unless it is a
shallow or a barren one) that but a few years
ago nothing but sagebrush and a few wild In-
dians were the produce and the occupants of
this region, now so fertile, and thickly inhab-
ited by an industrious and most intelligent peo-
ple, made so by the blessing of God upon a poor
and obscure people, who came to it for the sole
purpose of endeavoring to worship Him "in
spirit and in truth," to gather up and prepare
them for the second coming of their Lord; to
lay aside "the pomps and vanities of the world,"
and all its hollow ways, and to become as "a
beacon set upon a hill, that cannot be hid."
Such was their sole design; this has been the de-
sign of all who have gathered to the nucleus.
And many of the rich and intelligent, and those
educated in high schools and reared in refine-
ment and luxury, have read and heard and drank
into the spirit that broods over this singular peo-
ple and have brought all and gladly cast in their
lot and become one with the pioneers chosen
and ordained of God for a mighty purpose.
Watch for it, ye nations, for it will surely
come; yes, is on the way with rapid strides.
	Dear reader, do you realize that you and I
are on the summit of Ensign Peak? and that
we are having a nice talk to ourselves? Listen!
I feel like Peter—he desired to build an altar.
Were I rich and had permission, I would build
a small Temple, or Kioske on the very place
where we are now standing; it shonld not be
more than sixteen or eighteen feet in length,
and should be octagon in its form, having a
Pagoda top; it should have four doorways, but
no doors; it would not need windows, but it
must have seats by the walls and a table in
the centre!
	I once spent a whole Sabbath day up there—
a lovely day in the lovely month of May;
there, with three choice friends, we held a spir-
itual "communion of Saints." That day (in
my mind) I laid the foundation of the above.
Years have passed—In spirit I am often there,
for it is a conspicuous object from my window,
and I echo the words of David, "Had I the
wings of a dove," I would refresh my mind in
the pure, untainted air of Ensign Peak.
	Jan. 18, 1882.


Mrs. Mary E. Haggart will present the Wo-
man Suffrage question before the Kentucky
Legislature during the present session. She is
an able, earnest and very efficient advocate of
the cause.


