IN MEMORIAM
	ELIZABETH H. CANNON
"Calm on the bosom of thy God,
Fair spirit, rest thee now!
E'en while with ours thy footsteps trod,
His seal was on thy brow.
Dust to its narrow house beneath,
'Soul to its place on high!
They that have seen thy look in death
No more may fear to die."
	It is ever painful to record the death of a
friend, and doubly so when the circumstances
attending the demise, are of a harrowing and
melancholy character. But yet, when we feel
assured that the one that has passed away has
been ushered into the realms of a higher and
better life, where darkness or evil influences can
never enter, and where there is no sorrow, nor
sighing, nor pain forevermore, there is sweet
consolation to the mourner, and a soothing balm
for the aching and wounded heart, pierced with
anguish at the loss of one beloved. In the in-
stance we chronicle below, the lady was a loving
and honored wife, a tender and devoted mother,
a true and faithful friend.
	Elizabeth Hoagland Cannon, wife of Prest.
George Q. Cannon, now absent in Washington,
as Delegate for Utah departed this life on Tues-
day evening, January 25, at five minutes to ele-
ven o'clock. At the time when she breathed
her last, she was surrounded by a large number
of sorrowing relatives and friends, of whom she
had previously taken a most affecting, final fare-
well, includng each of her children who were
at home, her sister Emily and her brother John.
She enjoyed upon Mary Alice, her eldest daugh-
ter, to be good and true and a guide to the 
younger children. It was a most affecting scene,
especially pathetic when she blessed her little
Sylvester, the youngest child; every one in the
room was melted to tears.
	Concerning her husband, whose presence dur-
ing her illness would have given her the great-
est joy, for she loved him with the intensity of
a noble woman's most ardent devotion, she said
she had no special message, as he comprehended
her feelings, which were too deep for words to
express. She spoke of her two sons now away
upon missions, her eldesr, John Q., laboring in
England, and Abram H. in Switzerland, desir-
ing they might do well, and requested their
uncle, Prest. Angus M. Cannon, to tell them 
not to falter in well doing.
	The scene at the deathbed, and the telegram
previously dictated to her husband-"Remain at
your post. God can raise me up, if it is His
will, in answer to your prayers there, as well as 
if you were here. All is being done for me that
can be done"-were the true index to her mag-
nanimity of soul, and the best expression that
could be given of her integrity to the interest
of the Latter-day Saints.
	During her last illness, which included eleven
days of the most intense suffering, she was
deeply appreciative of all the attentions bestowed
upon her, and displayed uniform patience and
fortitude and a firm and steadfast reliance upon
the Lord, with implicit faith in the prayers of
His servants that she would be restored to health
if it was the will of her Father in heaven.
	Sister Cannon's health had been perceptibly
declining for two years past, and at times she
suffered seriously, although recently she had 
been somewhat better, until Saturday, January
13, when she was taken with the sickness that
terminated fatally. She was a very estimable
woman, and in many respects a remarkable one,
particularly in womanly courage under trials
where sublime heroism is needed, and she also 
possessed great strength of character.
	Elizabeth Hoagland, afterwards wife of George
Q. Cannon, was the daughter of Abram and 
Margaret Quick Hoagland. Her father was for
many years Bishop of the Fourteenth Ward in
this city, which position he filled with honor
and credit to the day of his death. Their daugh-
ter Elizabeth was born in Royal Oak, Oakland
Co., Michigan, Nov. 3, 1835. Her parents em-
braced the Gospel in an early day, and emigrated
to Nauvoo when Elizabeth was but a child.
They left that city at the time of the exodus,
and spent the following winter at Winter Quar-
ters. In the year 1817 they crossed the plains
in Prest. John Taylor's company, and, endruing
the privations and hardships incident to pioneer
life, reached the valley in the month of October.
Subsequently their daughter Elizabeth was for
some time employed in the teaching school in the 
Fourteenth Ward. Miss Hoagland was united
in marriage to Elder George Q. Cannon Decem-
ber 11, 1854. In the following May she accom-
panied her husband on a mission to California,
While there her eldest child, George Q. was
born, and also died there during his infancy.
John Q., the eldest now living, was also born
there. In 1869 Mrs. Cannon went with her hus-
band on a mission to England, leaving her two
little boys, John Q. and Abram H. Cannon, at
home. While in Englanc she had two children
born, a daughter and son; returning home in
the fall of 1863, her little daughter, Georgiana,
a very interesting and attractive little girl, died
on the plains, which was a terrible affliction to
the fond and hopeful mother; and soon after her 
return the little boy was also taken away to that
"better land." She has been the mother of
eleven children; six are now living to mourn
the loss of a most judicious and tender mother,
whose nobility in life and devotion in death has
been an example to her children and to all
Israel.
	Mrs. Cannon has three times accompanied
her husband to Washington during his delegate-
ship, and while there had been universally re-
spected by all who had the pleasure of her ac-
quaintance. She was a woman of great dignity
of character, and by nature eminently fitted to
adorn and elevate society, yet she loved domes-
tic life and avoided public society, except when
duty necessitated her mingling in it. She loved
her friends sincerely, but her children and her
home were ever and always her first considera-
tion. She was very benevolent and sympathetic
in her nature, and extremely kind to all those in
her own and husband's employment. She has
at different times in her life, in the circumstan-
ces in which she had been placed, ministered
great kindness and bestowed much needful at-
tention and meands upon missionaries, who will
ever remember her with feelings of deepest 
gratitude, and speak of her with greatest reve-
rence.
	The funeral of Mrs. Cannon was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Sunday,
at 10 a.m., according to instructions received
by telegram from Hon. George Q. Cannon, and
none of his family wore any of the outward em-
blems or semblance of mourning, complying
with his wishes in this particular. At the time
appointed the coffin, which was covered with
lovely flowers, was born into the hall, which
was beautifully draped in white for the occasion,
followed by Prest. A. M. Cannon and her own im-
mediate family, after them a large number of the
relatives of herself and husband and many in-
timate friends. The large hall and both wings
were crowded to their utmost capacity, hundreds
standing, outside and in, during the whole time.
The services were conducted by the Bishop of
the Ward. Singing by the ward choir, "O Lord, re-
sponsive to thy call." Prayer by Coun. D. H.
Wells. Singing, "Mourn not the dead who
peaceful lay." Remarks by Presidents W.
Woodruff, Joseph F. Smith and John Taylor,
each of the speakers bearing testimony to the
excellent qualitites and exemplary life of the
deceased. Singing, "Come to me." Prayer by
Bishop Burton.
	Sister Cannon was buried beside her children
in the Salt Lake cemetery. The grave was dedi-
cated by Coun. D. H. Wells. She has left a record
that her husband and children may well be
proud of, and all Israel cannot but admire
	"Of all the thoughts of God that are
	Borne inward unto souls afar,
	Along the Psalmist's music deep,
	Now tell me if that any is,
	For gifts or grace, surpassing this-
	'He giveth His beloved sleep?'
	"'Sleep soft, beloved,' we sometimes say,
	But have no tune to charm away
	Sad dreams that through the eyelids creep
	But never doleful dream again
	Shall break the happy slumber when
	'He giveth His beloved sleep.'
	"And friends, dear friends, -when it shall be
	That this low breath has gone from me,
	And round my bier ye come to weep,
	Let one, most loving of you all,
	Say, 'Not a tear must o'er her fall-
	'He giveth His beloved sleep.''


