ARMED FORCES.

	The Mormon question still seems greatly agi-
tating the public mind. Severe measures and
the enforcement of them with armed forces is
the popular clamor of some of the so-called
Christian sects. In this consideration one might
with all propriety ask, Is the nation retrograding?
Are the American people going back to barbar-
ism, the days of the Inquisition, or the guillo-
tine? Is the spirit of mobocracy and riot gaining
the ascendency among an enlightened people,
when men are preaching liberality from the pul-
pit and the press? Strange contradiction this!
A paradox indeed! America, the proud land of
boasted religious freedom and tolerance, driving
one class of her citizens at the point of the bayo-
net, unless they surrender their consciences into
the keeping of the popular leaders. Let them
be sure that even could they be compelled to
submit to rigid laws, which deprived them of the
practice of principles specified as disloyal, yet it
would only be another illustration of ignorant
persecution for the promulgation of true princi-
ples, such as Galileo suffered for ignominiously,
and these great modifiers would find, in the near
fulure, that "the world still moves;" that pro-
gression is eternal, and "truth, though crushed
to earth, will rise again."
	What evidence have the enemies of this peo-
ple that Congress is justified in making special
laws, or an amendment to the Constitution, to
promote virtue and morality out here in the
Rocky Mountains among the Mormons, espe-
cially to the neglect of other subjects of national
importance that demand the immediate atten-
tion of that honarable body? Are all the great


questions of the day to be set aside, while “Mor-
monism” and “Mormons” are thrown at the
President and Congress in every conceivable
way, in bills, petitions, amendments, circulars,
letters, newspapers, &c. Has the defendant no
claims in this matter? Are the whole body of
Latter-day Saints not entitled to a fair hearing?
When men's lives are the sacrifice demanded,
when armies are talked of to settle matters of
dispute, it is understood there are some means
of self defense; but in this case, the United
States vs. Mormons, there is a fearful odds; for
the U. S. have large regiments of soldiers armed
and equipped, while the "Mormons" are defence-
less so far as arms or artificial support is con-
cerned. But remember, to the innocent, for
every man there is an innumerable host of in-
visible beings, clothed in invincible armor, to
defend the Saints of God.


