EDITORIAL NOTES.

	VALENTINE Day approacheth, as the shop win-
dows bear witness. Choice and elegant, tender
and comic, in great abundance.
	THOSE desirous of communicating with the
General President of Y. L. M. I. A. should di-
rect to Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, P. O. Box 629,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
	WE call attention to the request made in the
article entitled "Some Facts," and signed (Gen-
tile) published in our Jan. 15 No., and invite the
"Mormon" ladies to answer through the paper.
	Reports of R. S., Y. L., and P. A. Conferences
held in Bear Lake and Juab Counties were re-
ceived too late for publication in this issue, but
will appear in our next. Report of Ladies' Con-
ference in Sanpete Stake is also crowded out.
	By letter from Mink Creek we learn that on
the 12th of January, 1882, a Relief Society was
organized there, also a Y. L. M. I. A. and Pri-
mary Association. Please forward names of offi-
cers, by whom organized and number of mem-
bers.
	Saturday, Jan. 21, was the anniversary of the
birth of Sister Eliza R. S. Smith, Zion's Poetess,
whom we designate as the "Elect Lady." On
that day she attained the advanced age of
seventy-eight years. She is in her usual good
health, except just at present suffering from a
severe cold. May her useful life be prolonged
until her destiny upon the earth has been ful-
filled, and she can return home into the man-
sion prepared for her reception, crowned with all
the honors that pertain to a celestial fulness and
exaltation.
	A YOUNG ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation was organized in the 14th Ward Jan. 16,
1882, Bishop Thomas Taylor presiding. He gave
good counsel to the young ladies, and said that
himself and Counselors would do all they could
to assist them. Said he liked the term Superin-
tendent for the presiding officer better than
President; thought it more appropriate. The
following officers were elected: Superintendent
Nellie Colebrook; Counselors, Mattie Horne and
Ella-Wilcox; Secretary, Lizzie Green; Treasurer,
Bealah Woodruff.
	ON Tuesday evening, Jan. 24, a special meet-
ing of the 13th Ward convened at the Ward As-
sembly Rooms, Bishop M. M. Atwood presiding.
Counselors N. Empey and F. Platte were pres-
ent, also H. G. Park, President Y. M. M. I. A.
of the Ward, President J. H. Felt and Coun.
George C. Lambert of the Stake organization of
Y. M. M. I. A. were present by invitation, also
M. A. B. Freeze and her Counselor, Louie Felt,
of the Stake organization of Y. L. M. I. A.
President Park tendered his resignation to the

[Column 2]

meeting, which was accepted, and the Bishop
proceeded to organize the young men and women
separately. Remarks were made by Elders J.
H. Felt and G. C. Lambert, and by Prest. Joseph
E. Taylor, of the Presidency of the Salt Lake
Stake, concerning the order and benefit of these
organizations; also by Sisters E. B. Wells, M.
A. B. Freeze and L. Felt, The following officers
were elected fer the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 13th
Ward: President, Miss Ruth Woolley; Counsel-
ors, Miss Kate Wells and Miss Alpha Eldredge;
Secretary, miss Loue Wells; Assistant Secre-
tary, Miss Louie Naylor; Treasurer, Miss Bessie
Spencer.
	We had the pleasure of attending the R. S.
Quarterly Conference of Davis Stake on Friday,
Jan. 20, held at Centreville Meeting House, in
company with Mrs. M. I. Horne. Meeting con-
vened at 10a.m., Mrs. Sarah I. Holmes presid-
ing. Her Counselors, Mrs. Mary S. and Nancy
A. Clark, were present, also the Secretary, Miss
Minerva Richards. The minutes and reports
were interesting and creditable. Verbal reports
were given by the respective officers from most
of the several branches of the Stake. Bishop
N. Cheney, Patriarch Tibbets and many other
brethren were present. Addresses were deliv-
ered by several of the local sisters, and by Sisters
Horne and Wells, on subjects calculated to en-
courage and strengthen the sisters in the Gospel
work.
	After the adjournment of the R. S. Confer-
ence a Conference of the Primary Associations
of Centreville was held at the same place, Mrs.
Aurelia S. Rogers presiding. The children
seemed greatly interested in their meetings,
and their singing was excellent. They answered
the questions asked them very promptly. The
Bishop manifested great interest in teh labors of
the sisters in both the Relief Society and Pri-
mary Associations. The children of the two P.
A's at that place held two concerts last summer,
and from the proceeds gave fifty dollars to the
new Meeting House. They are now engaged in
helping to make rag carpeting for the building.
	A Conference of the Young People's Asso-
ciations was held in the Assembly Hall Sunday,
Jan. 22, 1882, commencing at ten a.m., Supt.
Joseph H. Felt presiding. After the devotional
exercises, minutes of last Conference were read,
and a statistical and financial report of each As-
sociation. The speakers were Elders J. H. Felt
and H. Moyle, Sisters E. S. Taylor, M. A. B.
Freeze and E. B. Wells. The ladies in speaking
referred to the greater benefits resulting from
separate organizations, but also expressed them-
selves as favorable to conjoint meetings once a
month. Mrs. Wells made a suggestion that a
committee be appointed to secure lecturers for 
the Young Ladies’Associations. Counselor G.
C. Lambert presented the general authorities
and Stake officers of the Y. M. M. I. A., who
were unanimously sustained. John A. Evans
was appointed Secretary in place of John Q.
Cannon, who is absent on a mission to England.
	Afternoon session: After the opening exer-
cises, Coun. G. C. Lambert announced that the
suggestion made in the morning with regard to
a ladles lecture committee had been approved,
and accordingly Sisters E. B. Wells, E. S. Tay-
lor and L. H. Miner were sustained as such com-
mittee. Apostle Wilferd Woodruff addressed
the congregation for a short time, and was fol-
lowed by Prest. Joseph F. Smith; both speakers
were Inspired by the Spirit of God.	
	Prest. John Taylor occupied a few minutes,
during which he said, “We want to raise a race
of men and women whom the ancient Apostles,
Prophets and men of God will not be ashamed ;
of. And we call upon the youth of Zion to
maintain their integrity, purity and sobriety,

[Column 3]

and seek to honor God, that they may be worthy
sons and daughters of Zion."
	Elders J, F. Wells, R. B. Young and R. C.
Badger each spoke a few minutes, expressing,
the firm conviction that the youth of Zion would
unflinchingly maintain the faith of their fathers
and mothers. Conference adjourned subject to
the call of the general or Stake officers. Choir
sang an anthem. Benediction.


