CONTINUED.

	After the return of Sister Zina from the Is-
lands she spent most of her time in visiting
among the people, attending meetings of the
Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations, and assisting in encouraging and
strengthening the various organizations in
company with Sister Eliza and their co-workers.
The promotion of sericulture was not forgotten
or neglected as she traveled in the several
wards and settlements throughout Utah. She
also continued her labors as Priestess in the
House of the Lord, in connection with Sister
Eliza; in fact, these two women have been for
many years closely allied in their work among
the people. Wherever there is sickness, death,
calamity or sorrow, they are sent for almost in-
variably, and if health and strength permit
they accept the mission willingly. The names
of Eliza and Zina have been almost as much
associated together as those of Brigham and
Heber were in public works of benefit to Zion.
	In the Fall of 1880 these two sisters decided
to go South to St. George together, to perform
some labors in the Temple, and to visit the or-
ganizations of women and children, wherever
it could be made practicable upon the route.
In November, 1880, they journeyed southward,
holding meetings by the way, and endeavoring

[Column 2]
to stimulate the sisters in assisting to build up
Zion.
	After they had been a short time engaged in
the Temple at St. George, they took several
trips out into different settlements, some of
them many miles away, necessitating camping
out at night; but with all the fortitude of pio-
neer women they bravely moved forward, and
traveled over a thousand miles in this way, in
vehicles drawn by horses over some of the
worst roads and through many disagreeable
and dangerous places, and as Sister Eliza said
after returning home, "where the curse hadn't
begun to be taken off."
	The two traveling companions, Eliza and
Zina, after having journeyed through the South,
even in very remote places and in adjacent
Territories, arrived home again the last day of
March, and were met at the depot by a party
of thirty ladies, who escorted them to the Lion
House. There was a delicious supper awaiting
them, and during the evening poems and ad-
dresses were read, and short speeches made, ex-
pressing the esteem and love of the sisters and
their appreciation of the life and labors of these
eminent women.
	In the Tabernacle at the April Conference
following, Sister Zina was sustained by the
unanimous vote of the people as Sister Eliza's
First Counselor in the General Presidency of
the Relief Societies. Sister Zina has still con-
tinued her public efforts in behalf of Zion, go-
ing among the people and speaking whenever
and wherever opportunity offered, or woman's
aid was needed. She had long desired to visit
her old home in the State of New York, and
gather up records of her relatives and friends,
that she might officiate for the dead when the
time should come to do so, and exhort the liv-
ing to examine the principles of the Everlast-
ing Gospel; or, in fact, she earnestly wished to
present the truth to them, as error concerning
the Latter-day Saints was already in the field.
An opportunity offered for her to accompany
her foster son, Willard Young, a Lieutenant
in the U. S. Service at West Point, on his re-
turn to his post after a short visit at home in
Salt Lake. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson was going
to New York to spend a little time in her
medical pursuits, in order to increase her
knowledge of the improved methods of sur-
gery, for the benefit of the people, and it was
not considered best for her to go alone. Ac-
cordingly, it was arranged between them to
travel together, and to speak upon the "Mor-
mon" question on the platform, as the Lord
should open up the way. Previous to going
East, they were blest and set apart by the First
Presidency of the Church. They left this city
on the 20th of August and went direct to New
York City. After remaining there a few days,
Sister Zina went to Jefferson County, in the
northern part of the State, where an aged aunt
of hers resides, and also to an adjacent town
to visit a younger brother, from whom she had
been many years separated. She was very cor-
dially received by her relatives and many of
their friends. She was invited to speak at
Sunday Schools and Temperance meetings, and
was always glad to be able to defend "Mormon-
ism" and advance principles of our faith.

To be continued.


