OBITUARIES.

	Mrs. Martha J. Coray, the wife of Howard
Coray, passed behind the vail on the 14th Dec.,
1881, at 11 p. m., at Provo. She died as she had
lived, a strong and firm believer in the Gospel
as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
She was born on the 3d day of June,1821, Boone
County, Kentucky. Her father, when she was
a mere child, moved to Carthage, Ohio. Her
straightforward and honest way of doing things,
joined with more than ordinary clearness of
perception and understanding of matters and
things in general for one of her tender age, at-
tracted the attention of some of the most noted
of the place, for instance, Rev. Walter Scott,
Levi H. Jameson and others, and at the age of
about ten she was placed in charge of a class,
much older than herself, in a Sunday School,
and she filled the position so ably, that she won
for herself no small degree of praise. At the
age of twelve she applied for admission by bap-
tism into the Campbellite Church; but on ac-
count of her age, they held the matter a short
time under advisement before receiving her,
notwithstanding she was altogether qualified,
so far as information and a sound, moral, Chris-
tian character was concerned. Very early in
life she evinced a character in a degree some-
what rare for one of her sex—that is, of decid-
edly doing her own thinking; hence, before
adopting any principle of religion, law or politics,
whether proposed by father, husband, priest, or
king, she must clearly see and understand for
herself the righteousness and consistency of the
matter. Her father moved to Hancock Co., Ill.,
and was living there when the Mormons were
driven out of Missouri in 1838; and being a very
kind and hospitable man, gave employment to
quite a number of the Saints, besides furnishing
several families houses to live in. This brought
her face to face with Mormonism. Mingling
and associating more or less with those families
and the men in her father’s employ, she attended
their meetings and heard Brother George A.
Smith preach, who, as she said, set forth the
principles of the Gospel in such a plain and un-
mistakable manner as to completely upset all her
Campbellism and convert her to the principles
of what is called Mormonism. So, in January,
1840, a hole was cut through the ice, and herself
and a few others were baptized, the weather be-
ing so cold at the time that immediately after
one was baptized, the place would skim over
with ice. I mention this circumstance as it
evinces in some degree the courageous determi-
nation of the woman to grapple with and over-
come difficulties that interposed between her
and a religious, conscientious duty, exact and
truthful in all her business transactions in life.
After joining the Church, she soon became ac-
quainted with the Prophet Joseph; she said that
before he was pointed out to her as the man, she
could discern something in him of such a pecu-
liar character that she knew who he was, and
from her unbounded confidence in him as the
man of God, she took in common hand every
discourse that she heard him preach, and has
carefully preserved them. Bro. Geo. A. Smith
said that she had taken more pains to preserve
the sayings of the great Prophet, and had accom-
plished more in that direction than any other


[Column 1]

woman in the Church. She was married to
Howard Coray Feb. 6, 1841, and was the mother
of twelve children, seven sons and five daugh-
ters, all of whom have grown up to man and
womanhood, and it can be said in all truthful-
ness that there is not one profligate son nor way-
ward daughter among the whole of them; and a
liberal share can be accorded to her in their
bringing up, education, &c. She has given
much gratuitous labor in behalf of the young
and rising generation, their proper training and
education. She was Mother Smith's amanuen-
sis in writing a book entitled, "The History of
Joseph Smith, by his Mother, Lucy Smith."
She has received about all the blessings that are
conferred in the House of the Lord, and has
gone to await a glorious resurrection. In Octo-
ber, 1875, she was selected by Pres. B. Young as
one of the Trustees of the B. Y. Academy, which 
appointment I believe she filled altogether satis-
factorily. The funeral services were held Snu-
day morning, Dec. 18, at 10 o'clock, in the Tab-
ernacle at Provo.—[Ex.
	Mrs. Coray was an occasional contributor to
the EXPONENT; a very able and vigorous writer.
She felt strongly, and she expressed herself im-
pressively in speaking or writing. She spoke
intelligently on all subjects, never waiting a
moment for words, for she possessed in a rare de-
gree the gift of language. She was pretty well
versed in the law, and political economy was
one of her favorite themes. She had many true
friends and a large number of relatives, who
sincerely deplore her loss here, but she has gone
where a wider sphere of usefulness awaits her,
and where there is no more pain forever and
ever.
	Died, in Ogden, Dec. 5, 1881, Sister Ellen Mc-
Kay. Deceased was born in London, England,
Jan. 25, 1835. She was baptized into this Church
in 1866, and emigrated to Utah. In 1869 she re-
moved to Ogden, where she remained until her
death. She was a zealous advocate of the prin-
ciples of the Everlasting Gospel, and a firm be-
liever in the order of Celestial Marriage.
	Sister Ellen was a faithful member of the Re-
lief Society, and had been a Teacher in the 2d
Ward Society for nine years, and was also a Sec-
retary for some time, performing every duty and
labor cheerfully. She was ever happy under all
circumstances, buoyant in spirit and very sus-
ceptible of spiritual influences, which made her
a pleasing companion and associate to all those
who possess a reverence for divine things. Our
sister will be greatly missed in her home and in
the Relief Society. She was a woman of great
faith in the healing of the sick by administration
according to the order of the priesthood. Sister
Ellen has gone to the rest that remains to the
people of God, in the blessed hope of a glorious
resurrection.—COM.

	It is with feelings of the deepest sympathy
that we communicate to you the death of one
of our number, Mary Mettie Terry, who died
Jan. 2, 1882, of quick consumption. She was
the daughter of Andrew and Annie M. Peter-
sen, and was born in Fairview, Nov. 21, 1862;
was the wife of Adolphus Terry, to whom she
was married about two years previous to her de-
cease. Mary was loved and respected by all
who knew her, and during her short stay here
set an example before her associates well worthy
of imitation. She took an active part in the
Sunday School as teacher and in the Y. L. M.
I. A. as treasurer, and though we deeply mourn
the loss of so dear a friend, yet we feel to say,
"The Lord's will be done."

	Dear sister Mary, we bid you adieu!
		Though we feel a regret thus to part, 

[Column 2]

	We've this consolation: you've ever been true
		And kept a brave spirit and heart.

	Then weep not, nor mourn, for her that we miss,
		Her mission on earth being ended,
	She has gone to a realm of infinite bliss,
		Where truth, love and beauty are blended.

