		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY

	The following correspondence between my
father and mother may prove interesting to
others, more particularly to the ones who were
connected with the Church in an early day and
know something of its history. The first, writ-
ten by my mother, is in answer to father's, and
it expresses the joy and consolation which noth-
ing but this Gospel brings; and this is enjoyed
by every true Latter-day Saint.
	"In every condition, in sickness, in health,
	In poverty's vale, or abounding in wealth,
﻿	At home or abroad, on the land or the sea,
	As thy days may demand so thy succor shall be."
					"COMMERCE, Feb. 2, 1840.
	"My Dear Husband:- I have received your
letter of January 27, which gave me great joy;
not to hear of your sickness, for that pains my
heart, but that you have been an instrument
in the hands of God of converting some of my
dear kindred to a knowledge of the truth. Yea,
I feel that this is a recompense for all my pri-
vations in having you gone from me; for how
great in the sight of God is the worth of one
soul. Is it possible that my dear brothers has
become a praying man? do you think he has
got the root of the matter in him, so that he
will hold out to the end? If so, what an un-
speakable blessing!
	You have very kindly offered me the privi-
lege of visiting my friends the coming summer;
at the first thought my heart leaped for joy,
but upon more mature consideration, I think
perhaps it would not be wisdom. I should
have to sell everything we have to bear our
expenses, and then to be visiting so long with
the children, it would be quite a task; and if
I should get ever so tired of it, I should have
no home, nor anything to keep house with. I
feel as you do about settling in Kirtland; I
cannot think of changing my good neighbors
here for the society of those who are at variance
one with the other. There is a perfect union
here, and we have meetings at our house twice
a week. But I cannot make up my mind what
I shall do until Joseph gets home from Wash-
ington; I shall take counsel from him. It will
then be time enough to let you know.
	You will be so long getting to your journey's
end, I very much fear that you will not get
home next fall. The time seems long, and I
want to hear from you often. I feel more anx-
ious about your poor health; I long to get one
letter that will not give the painful intelligence
that you have been sick again. * * * *
	"William is very anxious to go East, and no
wonder, for he has not been able to do a day's
work this winter, and thinks he never shall if
he stays here.  * * I have been sorely af-
flicted with a cancer wart in the palm of my
hand, but I thank the Lord it is now as well as
ever. I often think that the hand of affliction
is not taken from you, or we should all be well,
for your faith would be stronger; but I have
great cause to be thankful, for through the
kindness and generosity of our neighbors we
are made comfortable for food and wood.
	"Brother Don C. Smith called in and saw me
writing, and wished me to give you his respects;
also Bro. Charles C. Rich. He and family
have been very kind to me; I think they are
the best of neighbors. * * Our children talk
much about their poor father, and long to see
him. They join with me in love.
			"From your affectionate wife,
				VILATE KIMBALL."
	The next received from father  was dated
New York, Feb. 19, 1840. He says:
	"My health is much better and my spirits
good. I feel to press forward in the name of
Jesus Christ. I am sensible that the Lord will

			[Column 2]
try His Saints to the uttermost, for it seems as
thought he devil was determined to destroy my
life and the lives of my brethren, the Twelve;
but they all seem to have good courage as yet.
Brother Brigham fell and hurt himself quite
bad, but is getting better, and his health is im-
proving. Brother George A. Smith has the
chills yet and is quite poorly. Brothers Orson
and Parley enjoy good health. * * *
	"While in Mendon I preached four times,
and had many calls to go and preach in other
towns and places. Brother Solomon did not-
go to hear me; I think I never saw him more
set against this work; I did not stay with him
but four or five nights. The sun of peace did
not abide there. and I felt greatly distressed
while with him. In Victor I had several calls
to go to Pike to preach. After being much
wrought upon I consented; William and Mary
went with me. We got to Adolpus Hewet's
the first day of February; I never saw a per-
son more pleased thatn his wife was to see me;
said she had been calling on the Lord that He
would send me there. Sunday morning we
went to the Christian Chapel. * * They
gave out an appointement for me to preach
Monday evening; said they were willing that I
should preach, because they were in such a cold
state I could have no effect upon them. The
house was crowded. My text was the Second
Epistle of John, the 9th and 10th verses.
When I was almost through speaking, two of
the ministers came crawling into the pulpit. I
gave them permission to speak. One (a Bap-
tist priest) rose up and found fault with me for
preaching from the Bible. When he had set
down I rose and answered him. Then one of
the others rose up, till four of the ministers
spoke. I answered all of them, and they were
confounded and began rather to make ridicule.
My speaking once, caused such an excitement
that it took four to put it down; and their ris-
ing made it worse, for it opened the eyes of the
people. I baptized Hewet's wife, and many
believed.  * * *
	"We returned to Victor on the 7th, and I
left there on the 10th, arriving in Albany on
the 12th. Found Wheeler there (a brother-in-
law), and stayed with him that night at the
Hotel; he paid my fare and said if I would
stay one week he would pay my bills. He
thought me very unwise to go any farther. * *
 "Next day I took coach for New York; the
fare was nine dollars. Went upon the east
side of the river, crossed the Catskill Moun-
tains; took three days to get to Jersey City.
When I got there I had not one penny left,
and they would not let me pass without paying
twenty-five cents. I told them I was out of
money, and there was a gentleman gave me a
quarter, and I crossed the river into New York
at nine o'clock in the evening. Went to the
Western Hotel and pawned my trunk for my
stopping over night. Next morning went and
found old Mr. Fordham, who directed me to
Brother Parley's, where I found Orson and
Brigham; were all glad to see me. This was
Sunday, and in the afternoon I met and
preached to one hundred and fifty of the
Saints. It was a great pleasure to meet with
them; they were very kind to me, and gave me
money to redeem my truuk. * *
	"I ate but one meal a day on my way to
New York- this was for the want of money-
but I neither went hungry nor athirst.
	"I received your letter of Nov. 3, which had
lain in the office for a long time. It was a
great comfort to learn that you and the chil-
dren were so much better. May God grant
the belssing of health to rest upon you and the
children forever. * * * Brother Orson
Pratt and myself were called upon to visit a
very sick woman; she could not turn herself in
bed. We anointed her with oil in the name of
the Lord, and she was healed and made whole.
She did not belong to the Church, nor her hus-

			[Column 3]
band; but in two days after she and husband
were baptized, and fourteen others.
	"Brothers Woodruff, Taylor, Clark, Mulner,
White and Turley have sailed for England.
	"Tell my dear little children that I am glad
to hear that they are faithful to pray for their
father."
	The following is from his last letter before
crossing the ocean:
			"NEW YORK, March 5, 1840.
	"My Dear Companion:-This day I received
your letter of Feb. 2; with feelings of joy. I
went to the office every day, and had nearly
given up the chase. I feel thankful that you
and the children are alive. My health is im-
proving; is much better than when I wrote
last. My labor is quite hard; I have to go to
meeting every night, and don't get to bed till
twelve or one o'clock; this overcomes me once
in a while. The Lord is here in this city, and
the honest in heart are enquiring the way to
heaven; there are calls on all sides to come
and preach. We are to sail next Saturday for
England, on the Patrick Henry, if the Lord
will. We were disappointed in not going
aboard the Garrick; they would not take any
passengers, could make more to carry freight.
Owing to being detained, we have Parley to go
with us. * * I have received great kind-
ness since  I came to this city, and also my
brethren.
	"You wanted to know if your brother Wil-
liam had the root of the matter in him. I can
say, yes; I never saw one more so. You know
that he is a go-ahead man and has a mind of
his own. He has a great desire to see you and
have you teach him of the things of the king-
dom. * * * I want you to come and visit
with our friends, but I don't want to settle in
the East unless times change.
	"You did not say anything about that little
black-eyed girl that lives with you. Tell Wil-
liam to be a good boy, for the Lord will heal
him. I feel that He will bless you all with
health. Give my love to our little ones, and
to Brothers Joseph and Hyrum, and all others
who love the Lord.
		Your affectionate husband,
					HEBER C. KIMBALL."
	Witness the sacrifice and continuous self-
denial of the servants of God, rsisting and
turning away from every temptation, and the
allurements of a worldly nature; struggling
with poverty, disease and death, and all the
other untoward circumstances; traveling with-
out purse or scrip to the nations and islands of
the sea, to preach the faith and doctrines of an
unpopular sect. Where (except the Mormons)
are the ministers who have professed Christian-
ity that have ever manifested such indomitable
courage, perseverance and endurance for the 
sole purpose of preaching salvation to the hon-
est in heart? The Twelve Apostles understood
their grand and glorious mission, which had
been given them by revelation through the
Prophet Joseph Smith; and though conscious
of their weakness, they feared nothing, for
their strength lay in the arm of Jehova; 
though they were often brought to death's door,
He was their refuge, and they rejoiced not-
withstanding their afflictions. "Greater love
hath no man than this, that a man lay down his
life for his friends;" and as Jesus said, "There
is no man that hath left houses, or brethren, or
sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children,
or lands for my sake and the Gospel, but he shall
receive a hudnred fold now, and in the world to
come eternal life." "Blessed is he that endur-
eht temptation; for when he is tried he shall
receive the crown of life which the Lord hath
promised them that love Him."
			To be continued.


LADIES remember the Municipal Election
on Monday, Feb. 13.


