IN HONOR OF BISHOP A. McRAE.

	January 19, 1882, being the twenty-fifth an-
niversary of the Bishopric of Brother A. Mc-
Rae, the members of his ward, wishing to show
their love and respect for, and their apprecia-
tion of his faithful services for so many years,
arranged a grand surprise party in the 11th
Ward schoolhouse, which was handsomely dec-
orated for the occasion. Over the stand and
above the Bishop's picture was the motto, "Our
Bishop, Jan. 19, 1857—1882,” Most of the


Ward were present, filling the house to over-
flowing. Among the invited guests were Presi-
dent Taylor and wife, Apostle Lorenzo Snow,
Apostle E. Snow and wife, Bishop Edward
Hunter and Counselors, L. W. Hardy and R.
T. Burton, Prest. J. E. Taylor, Hon. C. W.
Penrose, Judge Z. Snow and wife, and Bishop
Geo. Dunford and wife. Several tables run-
ning the whole length of the hall were covered
with the luxuries of the earth. At half past
one the guests were seated at the tables await-
ing the arrival of the Bishop, who, with his
wife soon entered, escorted by Prest. J. E. Tay-
lor. The choir greeted him with “Hail to our
humble feast,” while he wended his way to the
stand, after which they sang a piece entitled
“Our Bishop,” transposed especially for the
occasion, which was very touching. Then
prayer was offered and the feast partaken of.
	Dinner over, Coun. J. H. Felt, in behalf of
the members of the Ward, with a few appro-
priate remarks, presented the Bishop with a
beautiful watchchain and locket, with the en-
graving, “Presented to Alex. McRae on the
25th anniversary of his Bishopric.,' Mrs. M.
A. B. Freeze, in behalf of the Y. M. and Y. L.
M. I. Associations of the Ward, also presented
the Bishop with a handsomely framed likeness
of himself, accompanied with a few fitting
words. The Bishop responded by making a
kind and feeling speech, expressive of his grat-
itude for the good feeling manifested toward
him, and his desire to ever be worthy the good
will of all who love God and work righteous-
ness. Mrs. M. A. B. Freeze then read a poem
which she had composed for the occasion.
Speeches were then made by Prest. Taylor,
Apostles L. and E. Snow, Bishop Edward
Hunter, Brothers J. E. Taylor and W. A.
McMaster—the two last named were appointed
Counselors to Bishop McRae at the time he
was ordained to that office. They all bore tes-
timony to the unwavering integrity of the
Bishop, even in the most trying scenes. All
who were members of the Ward twenty-five
years ago were asked to raise the right hand,
when it was found there were only about twenty
present. It was a most enjoyable affair, a gen-
uine surprise and a perfect success in every
particular.							M.


A BILL to confer suffrage on all who can
read and write, passed both branches of the
Italian Legislature December 21, 1881.
	THE Church at Hughendon, which Disraeli
was in the habit of attending, has of late been
most beautifully decorated in memory of the
deceased. Two magnificent stained windows
have been put in, and the chancel wall has
been ornamented with sublime paintings of
prophets, angels and evangelists.
	IT is stated that since the present session ot
Congress eighteen bills have been introduced
into the Senate and House of Representatives
on the Utah question. This does not include
the amendment to the Constitution offered to
suppress the peculiar marriage institution, nor
the various petitions on these subjects sent in
from different parts of the United States.
	GOVERNOR Long, of Massachusetts, in his
Annual Message to the Legislature, on Thurs-
day, January 5, 1882, made the following
brief but emphatic reference to Woman Suf-
frage:
	"I repeat my conviction of the right of Wo-
man Suffrage. If the Commonwealth is not
ready to give it in full by a constitutional
amendment, I approve of testing it in munici-
pal elections."
	"The recent judicial decision that woman
cannot practice as an attorney-at-law has also
raised the question whether they can serve, as
some are now most usefully serving, upon pub-
lic statutory boards, except where expressly
provided by law. The decision necessitates
legislation."


