[Vol23 | August 1936 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Half a Million Dollars Cannon]
What a task to copy such manuscripts by hand, word for word! And how very proud the owner of such a roll must have been! HALF A MILLION DOLLARS FOR A BIBLE One wonders if a private individual ever owned an entire Bible, for these five books alone require a great deal of space. TOT until more than a hundred years after Christ did the modern book form, with individual pages bound together, come into use.
This book form was called a codex, and was much easier to care for and use than the rolls.
Only recently torn fragments of the oldest codex known were discovered and put on display by the British Museum.
They date from about 150 A. D. And are bits of a fifth Gospel of the New Testament, resembling John more closely - than the other Gospels.
This work was done on papyrus, which looks like splintered brown bark. One bit, translated from the Greek, reads: "They bade the multitude to carry together the stones and stone him. And the rulers laid their hands on him that they might take him and hand him over to the multitude, and they could not take him because the hour of his betrayal was not come."
Then follows the coming of a leper to Jesus, and Jesus' healing of him. ERE is a strange looking manuscript, written in Greek uncials, in the sixth century. In the ninth century, some one had partly washed out this writing, and had written the Gospel of St.
Luke across the pages at right angles to the original characters.
This is called a palimpsest manuscript.
There are many other examples of this method of cross writing in the Museum.
Quite surprising is one tiny volume written on thin vellum pages measuring only three and one-half by two and one-half inches.
This is a version of the Apocalypse in Coptic, done as early as the fifth century., One version of the Acts, Epistles, 487 and Apocalypse, in Greek, was written by the monk Andreas, who was engaged on it for three years. ANOTHER of the famous Bibles is the Lindisfarne text written at the end of the seventh century by the Bishop of Lindisfarne, Ireland.
This brings us to the beginning of that wonderful art of illuminating manuscripts. The book is freely ornamented in the finest style of Anglo-Celtic art. The Celtic mind is likely to prefer fancy to reality, and that is the case here.
Animal decorations are used, but only the head is left recognizable.
Everything else is twisted out of any kind of semblance.
This work was drawn with pen and ink in fine parallel lines that were filled in with water colors.
Such little anachronisms as Matthew seated reading a modern book of Scriptures did not trouble anyone.
There are many cases filled with the wonderful illuminated manuscripts that followed.
What infinite patience and toil the monks put into the making of these volumes! And what beauty they achieved! One draws aside the protecting green curtain and looks through the glass case at the red and russet and blue flowers and scrolls, and the generous sprinkling of tiny gold leaves and dots.
They are beautifully rhythmic in design, and of the most delicate workmanship. One moves one's head from side to side to see the gilded parts light up and grow rich and beautiful and warm with the ever changing glow.
Some of the pages are composed almost entirely of the wide floral borders with perhaps a small picture of a Scriptural scene, and a very little bit of a psalm or another text printed on the page.
There are some enormously large illuminated books with great pictures on them. The colors are lovely, but the figures not so good.
They lack 488 proportion, grace and ease.
Once could remain in this room for hours and be fascinated with the designs of these works of art. No sooner have you fallen in love with one than you turn to another which seems even more enthralling. But there are many other Bibles yet to see. Not the least interesting book is a Latin Psalter in Tironian notes, early tenth century, acquired in Reims.
These were shorthand characters invented by Marcus Tullius Tiro, a freed slave of Cicero, who lived in the first century before Christ.
After a thousand years these notes were still in use. And over here are the four Gospels written in the Caroline hand, developed under Charlemagne.
This superseded the national hands of England, Spain, and Italy, and becaine the ancestor of the handwriting used today. We must recall that all the early Bibles were in Latin, Greek, or some other foreign language.
There were many Norman-French Bibles circulating also before English Bibles were available. The standard text was the Latin Vulgate prepared by St.
Jerome in 405. The earliest attempt to tell the Bible story in the native English (Anglo-Saxon) tongue was that of Caedmon, the cowherd of Whitby, who lived in the late seventh century.' Bede tells us that Caedmon could not sing, and went to the stables in grief when his brethren sang at the feasts. Then One appeared to him in a dream and said, "Caedmon, sing something for Me." The cowherd replied that he could not sing, but was told, 'Yet thou canst sing something for Me."
Caedmon asked, "What should I sing?' The reply came, "Sing the beginning of created things." And Caedmon sang to the glory of the Creator, something like this: "Now RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ought we to praise the Author of the Heavenly Kingdom." One original manuscript exists, dating from the end of the tenth century, and is now at Oxford. We are told that in A. D. 735 the Venerable Bede translated the Gospel of St. John, and fought off death until with his last feeble breath, he had dictated the final words to his anxious scribe.; N the Museum is a Latin copy of the Psalms dating from the ninth century with a word-for-word Anglo-Saxon translation written between the lines.
Also a priest of the tenth century inserted an English interlinear translation of the Lindisfarne Gospels.
This occurred nearly three centuries after the original Latin writing.
Alfred the Great and Aelfric the Grammarian gave us some paraphrases and translations into Anglo-Saxon, which may be seen in the Museum. In Wessex, in the eleventh century, an unknown author wrote the first independent version of the Gospels in old English. One of the six remaining copies of this work is also on display at the British Museum. HE first complete Bible in English was given to the people by John Wycliffe, who said, "The sacred Scriptures are the property of the people, and one which no one should be allowed to wrest from them." However, he met with the bitterest persecution for his liberal ideas. He recognized the abuses in the Church, and felt that a knowledge of God's word would help people to understand truth for themselves, and thus would bring about reform.
Naturally this attitude did not enhance his popularity with those in power. It was charged that Wycliffe "had made the Bible common to laymen and even to women," HALF A MILLION DOLLARS FOR A BIBLE ' "_. So that the pearl of the Gospel was trodden under foot of swine." Archbishop: Arundel complained to the Pope of "that pestilent wretch, John Wycliffe, the son of the old Serpent, the forerunner of AntiChrist, who had completed his iniquity by inventing a new translation of the Scriptures." In spite of the opposition to this new Bible written in plain simple language for the understanding of plain folk, a great many copies of it were made. The price was necessarily high, about $200.00 a copy, but Wycliffe's "poor priests" helped to see that it was made available to the poor.
Some might give a load of hay for the privilege of reading a copy for a certain period each day. A woman named Alice Collins used to come to gatherings and recite the Ten Commandments and other parts she had learned by heart. In the preface to this Bible was written, "God grant us to ken and to keep well Holie Writ, and to suffer joiefulli some paine for it at the laste."
These words were indeed prophetic, for many of the readers of this Wycliffe Bible were burned with their copies round their necks. The persecuted Wycliffe himself expected to die as a martyr, and apparently would have done so, had not a natural death intervened. A petition was sent to the Pope asking him to have Wycliffe's body removed from consecrated ground and buried ina dung heap.
This was not done, but forty years later, his body was burned and the ashes scattered on the river Swift which ran near his church in Lutterworth.
