TO MY LITTLE SISTERS.

	I must try and call in my wandering mind
from the cares of life, and fulfil my promise to
my little sisters. I think of them so often
and am so pleased when I see them the subjects
spoken of, and engaged in making things for
the children's fair. I think of them as rose
buds blooming into life, fair and innocent, pre-
paring themselves for future usefulness in their
Father's Kingdom, to become Zion's bulwark
of industry in connection with their little
brothers, and when I read of the many little
things they make, which occupy their young
minds, and their little fingers active to accom-
plish some object, their faces beaming with
smiles, and oh, how happy they look and feel!
I look upon such as being the first and fore-
most to do the greatest good through the jour-
ney of life, and I hear those very li ttl girls
when at home, asking ma if there is not some
thing to do. Poor tired ma, shall I not do that?
and her little daughter can do many little
things to lighten the the burdens off her shoul-
ders, and make life to her comparatively easy.
A dutiful child makes a happy mother, and
gives her a joyful heart.
	My little friends listen to your teachers and
obey their good instructions; learn to be self
sustaining by cultivating tidy and industrious
habits, which will develop in you those pow-
ers of mind which you possess. Learn to be
neat sewers; there are a great many stitches in
plain needle work worth learning; hemming,
overhand, running seams, button hole stitch,
darning and patching. All this requires neat-
ness and practice. Little girls, get a knowledge
of all these things, and more, while you are
young, and when you are married women you
can in very deed be a help-meet to your hus-
band. Do not let your mind be carried away
by foolish fashions, but possess in youmelves a
stable mind, to be modest in your attire and a
determined will of your own to do and to act,
to please the noble and good, the honest at
heart, and holy beings who are not moved up-
on by the follies and weaknesses of human life;
make choice of that which will mould you for
a useful life and a noble woman. Our acts be-
speak our character, and bend the mind to
good or evil. Industrious habits, formed in
youth, make life's path pleasant and happy.
They lead out into broad fields of active
thought, where no idle time is spent; every mo-
ment of time should be employed to do good,
to help some one, even by the little folks; ma or
pa, brothers or sisters, if they are tired and
weary let them rest, and you do their part of
the work, and the Lord will bless you for so do-


ing, and say, "She putteth forth her hand to
acts of kindness and her name shall be honored
among the just." Read the truth in good
books, and lay up in store useful knowledge;
do not read fiction, as it weakens the memory,
the time is ill spent, and nothing gained to ele-
vate the soul.
	Let prayers direct you in all things, that by
the Holy Spirit you may be able to accomplish
much good, and make many nice things for the
next fair, and a nice written letter ot thanks to
your little brothers if they make you those
things I mentioned to put in your play-houses.
					MARY ANN PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 8th.


[For the Exponent.]

