FOREIGN EXHIBITION.

	The Foreign Exhibition is, of course, the
great attraction in Boston this year. Through
the perseverance of Miss—and myself, and
on account of being connected with the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT and the courtesy of Miss
Nellie Brightman, Assistant Secretary, I had
the extreme pleasure of being shown through
the building, though at that time it was not
completed and consequently not easy to be ad-
mitted under any circumstances whatever. Af-


ter receiving my pass and a letter of introduc-
tion to a young gentleman inside, he very kind-
ly escorted me through the rooms and gave me
information in regard to the display. The main
building was superbly decorated with Turkish
and Persian rugs draped from ceiling to floor
and caught back with all colors and shades of
ribbon. This draping alone presents the most
gorgeous spectacle. Around this immense room
is a gallery in which each nation has its section
the lower floor is devoted to brilliant displays
from them all. It would be impossible to make
mention of the articles as they were so numer-
ous, and all so wonderfully wrought and beauti-
ful. Models in clay from Scandianavia, glass
ware, stone work, etc., etc., wonderfully made,
of which we have not space to tell. The hall
beyond was being fitted up for all manufactured
industries of every description, from confection-
ery stands to the exquisite glass and china paint-
ing from Germany, also lace work, machine
work and embroidery from all parts of the world.
All hands were busy here in packing and ar-
ranging. From this department we went up
into the Art room, and here the preparations
were almost completed; such a world of life,
so sublimely portrayed in marble and on canvas
that this seemed to me the most magnificent of
all. The placing and hanging was perfect in an
artistic point of view, and enabled the looker on
to observe aach one in particular as they were
arranged so that each gave new life and color to
the next. The pictures were mostly from Italy,
though Paris and Germany added their host of
beauties. There are many that we might men-
tion, but I fear my description would not be
vivid enough to enable the reader to imagine
them in all their grandeur, so I will only draw
attention to the one painted by the Princess
Louise, as this name alone would be sufficient
to call forth a great deal of curiosity. It is life
size and of a lady in meditation; there was a
grayness about the picture that made it inter-
esting to me, and quite objectionable to others
who were around me. The face was of noble
outline, regular features, no color abont it, and
gray eyes, the background and dress were gray,
which to me gave it a very sad, sweet look,
while some others who had seen it, I learned,
thought it too sombre. The statuary was ex-
quisite, and the display immense, one which I
recall very forcibly was of a child catching but-
terflies; this was beautiful beyond description,
I could go on mentioning one picture or piece of
statuary after another, but 'twould be in vain as
they all should be seen to be appreciated. There
was also in an adjoining room a wonderful dis-
play of tiles, statuary in bronze, needle work,
silk work, wood carving and everything; pro-
ducts, arts and manufactures of all nations. It
is needless to say that it will be a success, as all
the world are interested in it. It opens Septem-
ber 3, 1883, in remembrance of the Centennial
anniversary signing of the treaty of peace by
the representatives of the nations of the Uni-
ted States, Great Britain, France and Spain. In
some instances it is said, it will rival the Cen-
tennial and will be the first wholly FOREIGN
Fxhibition ever held in the world. It is under
the direction of the Foreign Exhibition Associa-
tion, Boston, Massachusetts, U. S. A. Incorpor-
ated 1882. The building in which the Exhibi-
tion takes place is quite central; it was erected
at the cost of over half a million dollars and was
constructed solely for this purpose.
								BEATRICE.
	Boston, August 27, 1883.


