WITH THE ZUNI INDIANS.

	Last summer when Mr Cushing went East
with the Zunis, he married a young lady at
Washington, to whom he had long been en-
gaged, and brought her back a bride to live in
an Indian hovel.
	He as compelled to join the tribe in order
to pursue his researches, for the Zunis are a
secretive people, and their religion and tradi-
tions are as secret as Masonry. After joining
them the leading men of the tribe endeavored
to persuade him to marry one of the dusky
maidens who sit around half naked in the sun,
mold pottery and weave blankets. And he
came near losing his influence with the Indians,
and even stood in danger of his life because of
his refusal to do so. Twice were women se-
lected for him, but he risked penalty of reject-
ing them, and would have fared badly but for
the protection of the native governor, who had
adopted him into his family and given him a
bed of sheep-skins in his rude home.
	Cushing told the Indians of his engagement
to a young lady in Washington, and of his in-
tention to marry her to live with them, and al-
though their preference would have been for
him to take a wife from the tribe, their gallant-
ry overcame their prejudice, and they received
the pale faced, brown-eyed bride with a respect-
ful and cordial welcome.
	Mrs. Cushing was the daughter of the late
Mr. Magill, who was for many years connected
with the venerable banking house of Lewis
Johnson & Co., of Washington, and was one
of the belles of the capital. Her devotion to
her husband runs parallel to his devotion to
science, for there are few girls would leave a
beautiful home at Washington for a mud hut
in an Indian pueblo, even for the men they
loved.
	A man or a woman who does not love luxu-
ry fails to reach or realize the privileges and
possibilities of existence; but he or she who
cannot dispense with luxury and enjoy rough-
ing it is a worthless weakling unfit for the tasks
and the triumphs that this great world offers.
Mr. Cushing belongs to that ancient fraternity,
the badge of which is always apparent, even
under the barbaric costume of the Zuni—the
honorable order of gentleman—and in his
rude surroundings and primitive accommoda-
tions every sign he gives detects this order to
which he belongs, and of which in Washing-
ton or in Zuni he will always be an orna-
ment.
	Mrs. Cushing does not enjoy life in Zuni as
her husband does. She does not and cannot
share his fascinations for the work in which he
is engaged. She hates the dirty women and
the naked children, and despises their filthy
ways, but she has made her mud hut a pretty
little paradise, and has developed the possibili-
ties of comfort even in Zuni.
	The clay walls of her rude house are hung


with blankets woven by the Zuni and Navajo
Indians, and compare in brilliancy of color tex-
ture, and design with the far-famed Gobelin
tapestries. The ceilings of undressed trunks
of trees are covered with bright figured cretons
and Japanese silks. The mud floor is strewn
with sheep skins, tanned by the Indians, that
are softer to the slippered foot than the rugs of
Oriental magnificence and ornaments selected
with refined taste, or framed with clever hands
after the models of decorative art, are hung
here and fastened there, and strewn every-
where. The Cushing residence is a mud hut
without, but within a bower of beauty.
	She has her sister, Miss Magill, with her,
who likes the Zunis better than Mrs. Cushing,
and is talking of adopting their peculiar dress
and joining their tribe.
	"I would do it," said Miss Magill; "it is so
funny and romantic, but I don't like to cut my
hair."
	Dr. Cushing, a brother of Frank, and his
wife are there as visitors, and Mr. Metcalf, the
well known artist of Boston.—Zuni (N. M.)
Cor. Chicago Inter Ocean.


