INTRODUCTORY.

	In presenting the picture, REPRESENTATIVE
WOMEN OF DESERET, before the public, an
explanation may be appropriate, that the ob-
ject may be rightly understood. The picture
is intended to represent the L. D. S. Women's
Organization, rather than to draw attention to
those intellectual gifts and acquirements, which
in this connection are but secondary to the
spiritual or missionary labors of those repre-
sented.
	As in Salt Lake City is the head of these or-
ganizations, so these spiritual laborers were
selected by the precedence they hold.
	Throughout our Territory—indeed beyond
—are as many as sincere and faithful, noble
women, well deserving of every honor con-
tained therein; but there is, of necessity, a limit
in the present work, and that which would
have been a pleasure became an impossibility
at this time; but it is the purpose, in due sea-
son, to present another work which will be of
interest to our people.
	It is not the purpose of the compiler of
these sketches to furnish complete histories of
the subjects of the picture, to which this book
is merely an accompaniment to acquaint those
who may be strangers to them with an outline
of their labors and their virtues; to show, as it
were, what manner of women these "Mormons"
are. To do full justice to the originals would
require more space and ability than are mine.
But if the eyes of the stranger may be opened
to a knowledge of their purity, integrity and
faith in God, their heroic firmness and the
trials they have endured without wavering in
their allegiance to His cause, if any may be
convinced that this people are in earnest and
in the right, and that God is with them; if they
can realize that for men Mormonism is not a
cloak, a subterfuge and a selfish system, that
our women are not from the dregs of civiliza-
tion, led and controlled by stronger minds,
without a knowledge within themselves and
for themselves for their cause, it will prove a
joy and delight, a sweet return for my humble
but earnest efforts. O, that these truthful tes-
timonies, falling upon hearts that are as blocks
of ice toward us, might, like burning bullets,
melt their way therein, until, like Joseph's
brethren they would weep for injuries they have
done!
	And to the young of our people: if this
work shall cause them to appreciate their hon-
ored parents more by the nobility they have
proved, if it shall cause them to weigh the ob-
ject for which these sacrifices were endured
against the poor temptations of the present
time, if they shall question themselves—Shall
their sacrifices count for nought? shall their
example and their labors be lost on me, and
their hopes meet disapointment? If that com-
mand, "Honor thy father and thy mother,"
shall prevail and the sweet testimony of the
Holy Spirit convince and strengthen them in
the same faith and service unto their God, then
still sweeter and richer will be the reward.


That this work may go forth from my hum-
ble home as a missionary, a silent worker of
great good, is my fervent hope.
								A. J. C.


