MY DEAR MOTHER:
	In your last letter you said you were disap-
pointed at not hearing all about the dear old
places in New England, but really, although I
bathed in the same brook where Aunt Delia said
she thought you got your inspiration, still I did
not feel that I could do justice to the hallowed
spot.		*		*		*		*		*
	Aunt P. and D., Belle and myself ran over all
those dear hills, by the brook, over the moss
covered rocks, gathered ferns and berries just as
you did in that happy childhood of which you
have so often told us. O, how we all enjoyed

[Column 2]
it, Aunt D. told us so many sweet things about
your childhood, how once she led you all into
that very brook after you had held your little
meeting until she was tired, and how grandma
punished her for it. She laughed and cried as
she told it to me. None of us allowed ourselves
to get tired, but climbed up those dear old places
until we exhausted every favorite spot. We
took our lunch and ate it under the large pines
that grow in with the hemlocks at the back of
the house. Aunt P. and D. felt like children
that day, and it was really touching to see those
gray-haired sisters visiting the scenes of their
childhood. Who could write the volumes they
thought? Every now and then some pine nee-
dle or nut would drop on our heads, and how we
would start, and then our good aunts would
have some happy little incident to tell of when
they were girls, and the big tears stood in our
eyes many and many a time during that blessed
day. I shall have so much to tell you about old
places and friends. We went to the minister's
house, the parsonage where the minister, whose
wife you have told us so much about, lived, also
to Col. Whittaker's place and it is still very
grand thongh so old. Aunt Delia has sent you
such a nice picture of the old homestead; she
said it would remind you of many a happy day.
The old schoolhouse where you used to attend
school, and the very seat you sat in. I could
hardly tear myself away; in each place I staid
longer than any one for I loved to be alone, O,
why I cannot tell you, only that I seemed near-
er you and nearer the old days, and the silence
was sweet, you know how it is to feel thus, just
as we do when we visit the graves of those we
have loved, so I felt when I visited the places
once so dear to you. The little village church,
just the same old-fashioned seats and pews, and
we sang the Doxology there, for our hearts
were so full that we all had to give vent to our
feelings in some way. I stood just in the same
place where you once stood to sing and cousin
Lilian played the melodian. I never had seen
anything like it before, it was so old, but just as
sweet-toned as of yore, and many a tremble
there was in many a voice as we sang the good
old hymn. The folks all thought me so much
like you, dear mother, that they said they could
scarcely realize that they were not back again to
their childhood. The north pond where you
used to gather water lilies was just as beautiful
as ever, but I thought it too large to be called a
pond; there had been a great many lilies but
they had almost all closed up. It is as beautiful
as any thing I ever saw, such mossy banks, tall
frees, water lilies and boats made it so pictur-
esque that one could scarcely imagine it real.	*
	We visited so many of the old places, and
heard so many little incidents it all seemed so
real that we would be laughing and crying all
at the same time. The little juniper tree we
have so often heard you speak of is now a large
tree, and it is so beautiful, how I wish you could
see it. I broke off a branch for you.
	The next day we went to Petersham, where
you were born, and where the family home-
stead has remained for generations. What a de-
lightful spot it is! The once quiet village is
now a favorite summer resort, with many hand-
some hotels and numbers of the dear old houses
all filled with people, used as boarding houses.
We went to the old home where your father and
grandfather were born. We went through the
house from garret to cellar, into every nook and
corner, but we did not find any barrels of cider,
nor yet large quantities of honey or maple
sugar such as you have told us about, they are
gone now. Aunt Pallas knew everything for
she was older than aunt Delia, and she could
remember so much about the former days. How
many amusing things she did tell us of those


good,old times. She said she could see her grand-
father sit there just as he used to, and each one
in the old family circle. But they are all gone
now, and another generation of a very different
manner of living has possession, and the house
is kept by people just to preserve its identity.
We lunched in the very same old parlor where
your grandfather, great-grandfather and his
father used to sit and enjoy themselves socially
and entertain their friends. How very wonder-
ful it all seemed, there were the same old halls
and bedrooms, the antique fireplaces, and the
little corner ones in the bedrooms, cupboards
from ceiling to floor with their funny brass
handles, old and worn, and queer corner cup-
boards, too, such as I had never seen. Aunt P.
was very thoughtful and would every few min-
utes tell us some pretty little thing that caused
a merry laugh through the dear old halls; she
had not been there for a great many years, and
it was all as interesting to her as to us, who had
come so far to see the places so dear in the
memory of our mother. I made several sketches
there, the folks say they are quite natural. We
saw some people who remembered you when
a little girl trotting off to school. It did seem
so strange to us that they should recollect you
just as a little child.
	The places where the old factories stood are
much the same, but they are gone, though the
water still rolls on over its immense rocks. O,
those beautiful hills, brooks and meadows, how
I did see you gathering nuts and berries, and
running, bathing your face in the clear brook
that babbled on, Winter and Summer. Aunt
Della said 'twas all the same, you could never
feel right until you had run down to the brook
and bathed, "and that," she said to us, "is the
place where your mother drank in her inspira-
tion." She fancied she could see you under
those grand old trees with your dollies or some
fascinating book, and O how I watched you
trip through the meadows, over the hills, laugh-
ing and singing; I cannot tell you half I saw or
heard during those two days now, but will tell
you when I get home. I saw your old friend,
and she told us so much of your intimacy, and
her hair is still raven black and hangs in long
ringlets as when you knew her. She said, tell
you her happiest thoughts were of you and those
old days.		*		*		*		*		*
	I have so much to say about these things that
I could go on writing for ever, but I know I
must hurry as it is getting near time for us to
leave. In Boston we had an excellent time,
and though we were not there long thanks to
our relatives who knew every nook and corner
we saw Boston thoroughly. I forgot to tell you
before that we visited all the old graves at Pe-
tersham and I managed to get a great many
names and dates of the family. The cemetery
is a beautiful old place, and the ferns were al-
most as high as bushes. It had such a sweet,
sad charm for me on account of its being old-
fashioned and a little neglected, and I lingered
about the dear old graves until the party be-
came impatient. We repeated, "Three little
Graves," aunt P. remembered it so well, it
seemed so quiet and sacred that such a little
thing was really appropriate. There were many
other places we wanted to go to, but they all
took so much time and we were limited for time
and could not do more than we did. We are
going now to Atchison to see our relatives there
and then directly home, we shall be glad to
get home to you all again, I feel as if I could
scarcely wait.	*		*	Love to all.
