"BE COURTEOUS."

	These words are a Bible injunction, written
with its usual sublime brevity; but our Lexicons
define the word "courteous" as "civil, well-bred,
kindness, favor, civility"—all this is part of
the Gospel, and should be inserted into our
daily vocabulary, because the exercise of it is
called for continually.
	It is getting to be thought, and taught by
some twilight minds, that affable, pleasant, con-
descending manners are servile! such minds
have no comprehension of what is truth and
beauty; so far from this, there is a high-toned
manner of the most exquisite politeness, that
would perhaps repel a person not accustomed
to etiquette and polite society—almost as much
as a freedom of manner used by an inferior
character.
	It is a general complaint that the children
and young people of the L. D. S. are very de-
fiicient in affability and politeness, i. e., in
good manners in general; and any one who has
mingled in polished society will acknowledge
this to be an absolute fact! Have they ac-
quired the notion from the book of the afore-
said teacher that they will compromise their
dignity by being "courteous"? Let me say—
any one who is satisfied that their dignity is
fully established is never in the least fear of
oompromising it! but when we see a real lady
or gentleman affable, condescending, gentle

[Column 2]

and considerate, even to the mendicant in the
street, and to all they may come in contact
with, a very halo of beauty at once seems to
surround them, and every right feeling heart
exclaims, even if the lip is silent, how beauti-
ful! I have found one I desire to imitate.
	True, genuine politeness is as free as air!
there is no stiffness in it, no "putting on style;"
that is a bogus affair, and at once denotes the
plebian. True nobility is ever humble and
unassuming; they were "born in the purple,"
and wear it naturally as their daily clothing—
Were we to come in contact with the good old
man, the Emperor William, we would see one
we might feel was "one of us"—and a Nor-
wich friend of mine, who often sees the Prince
of Wales riding around, when sojourning at
his seat of Sandringham, speaks of his great
affability to all classes, at the cattle show
shaking hands with the herdsmen, and con-
versing with them as if they were his equals,
and that he is delighted when he finds himself
taken for a Norfolk Squire, etcetera. Queen
Victoria has ever been noted for her conde-
scension; always receiving as favors to herself
the attentions of her court and servants.
	My young friends, drop all paltry assump-
tion, be determined to be natural, but see that
nature is cultivated in the highest school; and
remember, the best and highest teachings you
will find in the Gospel; that alone will give the
first principles of politeness; and those who
graduate through its varied "forms" will most
assuredly attain the covented diploma, that will
fit and qualify them to pass through life, evi-
dencing to everyone by their kind, affable,
condescending self-sacrificing deportment, that
they are living Christians, and consequently
bearing the badge and title of the Church of 
the first-born, even the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, Sept 13, 1883.


