EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By means of these great public conve-
niences, the Utah Central and Utah Northern
Railways, we are now enabled to return from
Logan in about a half a day, leaving that
point at 12.30 p.m. and arriving in Salt Lake
City at 7.40 p.m. on the same day. What a
difference from our wagon experiences of a few
years ago, when with jaded teams and more
jaded passengers the conveyances would take
three days between the two points. And this
was pretty good traveling too. But returning
from Logan we broke our journey at Brigham
City, and through the courtesy of Apostle Lo-
renzo Snow we remained over Sunday to at-
tend the Conference of Box Elder Stake. At
the morning service the speakers were Apostle
Carrington and Lorin Farr. In the afternoon
Apostle Lorenzo Snow and Elders Charles W.
Stayner and Charles O. Card occupied the
time. The remarks on Temple building were
particularly interesting to me, owing to my
late visit to the Logan Temple. It seems so
refreshing to hear historical facts in relation
to the building of the ancient Temples; and
even an account of their destruction in fulfil-
ment of prophecy is very strengthening to our
faith. In the adversity as in the prosperity of
God's people, we can see His great providences
made manifest, and learn a lesson which, if

[Column 2]
heeded, is fruitful of future blessings, I was
delighted with the prosperous appearance of
the northern cities. Their progress in building,
commerce and the general pursuits of a truly
civilized life; although the hated liquor traffic
forced upon the Loganites by the federal
court rulings is much to be regretted.
	Their schools, among which is that great In-
stitution, the Brigham Young College, are do-
ing much in training the young of those set-
tlements. This last named institution is partic-
ularly beneficial, owing to the fact that while
the Territorial District schools are debarred
from introducing any but secular studies, the
college endowed by the late President, is de-
signed to also instruct its students in the great
principles of the Gospel revealed to the Saints.
The educational faculties of this eminent place
of learning are not limited by consideration of
a merely political and financial character, as
are those of the schools established by law. I
deem this one of the greatest advantages of
the President's gifts to Northern Utah. While
the College embodies all that can be taught in
mere promiscuous establishments, under the
excellent watch care of Elder J. Z. Stewart
and Sister Ida Cook, it also nurtures that faith
in God which needs such tender training in
the minds of our youth. Too much can
scarcely be said on this important subject, to
encourage the establishment and maintenance
of such institutions in our midst.
	After a most pleasant, and I trust not un-
profitable visit, we returned in excellent
health and spirits, bringing with us the kind-
est remembrances of friends, prominent among
which were Sisters Preston and Martineau of
Logan, and Sister Snow of Brigham City.
		Your loving sister in the Gospel,
