WHICH OF THE TWO SHALL VOTE.

	"Emigrants are coming to this country at
the rate of 5,000 to 6,000 per week. Did yon
read that, Harry?" asked Mrs. Dyle as she
turned over the paper to find the Society News
column.
	"Let 'em come," said her hnsband without
taking his eyes off Clara Belle's article, which

[Column 2]

he was hungrily devouring, in the Cincinnati
Enquirer.
	"Do you think it is well to encourage emi-
gration at such rates? I should deem it wiser
to limit it somewhat, and keep our lands for
ourselves. It looks to me like America will
be in the position of aged parents who have
unwisely given all the property to the children
and made themselves dependent on the unwil-
ling support of the children. Don't you think
so, Harry?"
	"Y-e-s, y-e-s, I guess—what did you say—
have you read Clara Belle's article?"
	"Of course not, when you have had the pa-
per ever since it came. I never read them any-
way. I was speaking of foreigners filling up
this country so rapidly, and asked if you ap-
proved of it."
	"What do I care, why need you; it is none
of our affairs."
	"None of our affairs! a'rn't we American
citizens, is it none of our affairs who comes into
our home? Are you—"
	Her husband laughed out, which caused
Mrs. Dyle to arise and push aside her chair so
suddenly that Harry looked up startled. "You
need not laugh," she said half angrily, "what
did I say so funny?"
	"Why, why, Bess, I wasn't laughing at you;
didn't you hear what you said, I was laughing
about Langtry and Freddy Gebhart—the pa-
pers say—O, yes, you were talking against
foreigners coming to this country; well, why
are you put out about it?"
	His wife made no answer, but continued her
reading, so he turned again to his. After a
few moments she asked: "What length of time
must these 1,000, out of the 5,000 who came
last week, remain before they are privileged
to vote—have a voice in law making for the
country? No doubt one fifth, at least, of the
number are males."
	Mrs. Dyle stood with flushed cheeks and
her black eyes flashing as she asked this ques-
tion.
	"Five years," her husband answered, "they
must live here five years and then become nat-
uralized citizens. They can know all about
the country in that length of time if they
read the daily papers."
	"Yes, certainly; if they read all Clara
Belle's articles, and everything that's said
about Mrs. Langtry and that Fred Gebhart,"
Mrs. Dyle answered, somewhat scornfully.
"How long has Pete Swarty, who keeps the sa-
loon on the corner, been here—ten years?
What does he know, or care about the coun-
try's right or wrong; is he as well qualified to
vote as I am?"
	"You! Do you want to vote?,'
	"No matter whether I do or not; but one ar-
gument brought against women voting is, that
'twill only increase the number of votes to be
counted and do no good. I think the same ar-
gument will apply to these emigrants."
	Mr. Dyle looked at his wife with a smile
which seemed a mixture of admiration and
contempt. Then got up, with a yawn, stretched
himself and went out, saying loftily: "Let
women attend to their own affairs; they know
nothing about politics."
	And, in his absence; Mrs. Dyle thought
over his words and felt—mad. "When he re-
turns we will compare notes and see which is
the best informed on political matters," she
said to herself.
		CHAPTER SECOND.
	Teatime arrived, but not Harry. Mrs. Dyle
had overcome her anger and was looking very
sweet and complacent in her white dress with
sprays of scarlet flowers in her hair and at her
throat. She had not given up her determina-
tion to have a political talk with her husband,
but, as a wise woman that she was, had con-

[Column 3]

cluded that she did know but little and would
ask for information.
	Everything was perfect in their little dining
room with its cool matting, choice pictures,
neatly set table and glittering crystal and sil-
ver-ware on the side-board. Mrs. Dyle prided
herself on being a perfect house-keeper, and
was an affectionate, good-tempered wife with-
al. She waited nearly an hour for the com-
ing of her liege lord, then drank her tea, ate
a little of the good bread; cake and fruit—her
heart growing heavy and sad.
	Too well she surmised the cause of his tardi-
ness. Doubtless he had found some compan-
ions who had also been reading of Langtry
and Gebhart and were toasting.
	She still waited another hour, then cleared
the tea-table, and taking a book on political
economy went to the parlor to read.
	A little after ten o'clock Harry came in.
Harry! Was it Harry, her husband? The
man who had left her in the afternoon with
such a pompous walk, who had said, "let wo-
man mind her own affairs, etc." was a fine
looking man in faultless attire—this man who
had just entered had his hat crushed in, and
on one side; his clothes were bespattered with
mud; there is nothing proud or manly in his
walk or appearance. His arms hang limp at
his side and the spit runs from his mouth as he
says with a foolish smile, "W-e-l-l, B-e-s-s, wat
yer (hic) 'pinion (hic) pol (hic) tics, eh?"
	Mre. Dyle looked at him in silence as he
dropped upon the sofa and sank into a drunk-
en sleep immediately, then, as she tried to re-
move his boots, she said, "One of the lords of
creation, oh, lordy!"
