BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"Friday, January 2nd. The weather was
clear and cold this morning. At an early hour
those who slept in the Temple were stirring,
and a large company had assembled in the ves-
try, waiting for their washings and anointings,
although it had been supposed the work must
cease for a short time for want of oil, but sev-
eral bottles had been brought in for temple
use by various individuals, so that by the time
it was wanted there were seventeen bottles.
These were consecrated	*	*	by the
following persons:	*	*	Amasa Ly-
man, George A. Smith, Joseph Young, Wil-
liam Crosby, A. O. Smoot, Charles C. Rich
and F. D. Richards.	*	*	*	After
the regular exercises and business of the day
were over and the meeting of the High Coun-
cil and the High Priests were closed, we had
some excellent instrumental and vocal music-
several members of the band having been invi-
ted in by Elder Kimball, viz. Wm. Pitt, Wm.
Clayton, J. F. Hutchinson and James Smith-
ers. They performed several very beautiful
pieces of music, and at the request of Presi-
dent Joseph Young played a Fisher's Horn-
pipe, upon which he broke the gravity of the
soene by dancing by himself. President Young
then invited some others to join him in the
dance.	*	*	After a short time
spent in dancing Elder Hyde made a short
address, and requested those present to unite
with him in thanksgiving and prayer to God—
which they did. A new song composed by
Wm. Clayton, called "Come with me," was
first sung by Clayton and Hutchinson, accom-
panied on the violin by Pitt and on the bass
viol by Smithers. When this was over an ad-
dress was made by Elder Hyde. After the ad-
dress and prayer the President gave permission
to any one to speak, or pray, or shout, or speak
in tongues. No one seemed to disposed to use
the opportunity, whereupon the president
arose and made a short address.	*	*
He alluded to the privilege which we now have
of meeting in this house, and said that we
could worship God in the dance, as well as in
other ways.	*	*	The way for us to
grow and thrive is for us to serve the Lord in
all we do; and as we have called upon the dif-
ferent quorums to meet together once a day, so
it will eventually be with the whole Church.
There will be houses for them to meet in. Re-
member the covenants that we have entered
into. No man is to be filled with lightness—
no brother or sister will be allowed to speak
evil of his brother of sister.	*	*	It
is the duty of the quorum to meet together—
we cannot enjoy it but a short time.	*	*


[Column 1]
We will praise the Lord as we please. Now,
as to dancing in this house—there are thou-
sands of brethren and sisters that have labored
to build these walls and put on this roof, and
they are shut out from any opportunity of en-
joying any amusement among the wicked—or
in the world, and shall they have any recrea-
tion? Yes! and this is the very place where
they can have liberty. We will go to a land
where there are at least no old settlers to quar-
rel with us; where we can say we have killed
the snakes and made the roads, and we will
leave this wicked nation to themselves for they
have rejected the Gospel. This church has ob-
tained already all they have labored for in
building this Temple, but after we leave here
(I feel it in my bones) there will be thousands
of men that can go into any part of the world
and build up the kingdom, and build temples.
If any want to faint, let them faint. If there
are any that don't want to go with us, don't
urge them. The United States Government
says, if we let the Mormons go out from this
nation they will give us trouble. Well, per-
haps their fears will come upon them. Where
is there a city of refuge on the face of the
earth but this? They have tried to break us
up, but with all their officers, all their troops
and all their power we are here yet. They
have got writs out for me, but they have not
got me yet, and when they do get me they will
get something else, I assure you. From Polk
down to the meanest bogus maker or whisky
seller it was resolved to break up the "Mor-
mons" this fall; and if I had hearkened to Col.
Backenstos we should have been broken up
and all put out of the way. Bnt when he re-
ceived correct instructions he acted right, and
the plan and trap which our enemies laid for
us worked so that it gave us the advantage
over them; and when he went according to
counsel he came off victorious every time.
We are hunted and persecuted and our enemies
try to trouble us in every way. We need a lit-
tle recreation. My mind is continually upon
the stretch, because I know the Church must
be saved. The Gospel must be preached to
all the world. Temples must be built, and
then add to this all minor matters, I tell you
no man knows, or can know the burden and
responsibility that rests upon my mind, unless
he experiences it. One thing I will do, I will
do my utmost to break down every thing that
divides; I will not have division and conten-
tion, and I mean that there shall not be a fid-
dle in this Church but what has Holiness to
the Lord upon it, nor a flute, nor a trumpet,
nor any other instrument of music. If Jos-
eph Smith had lived we should not have been
here, we should have been in some other country.
We can't stay in this house but a little while.
We have got to build another house; it will be
a larger house than this, and a more glorious
one, and we shall build a great many more; we
shall come back here, and we shall go to Kirt-
land, and build houses all over the continent
of North America. Last night we had some
of our young folks here—some of our children,
and they all covenanted that they would no
more mingle with the wicked. After closing
his remarks he gave permission for all that
wished to retire to do so."
	The traditions of our forefathers, which we
all inherited a portion of, were such that
dancing was once thought among the unpar-
donable sins. In the early days of Kirtland,
I remember that the ones guilty of indulging
in so gross a sin as dancing were considered
worthy of being disfellowshipped. They, like the
sects of the day, had received their training from
the old school where to sing a song or to laugh
or run upon the Sabbath day was too much for
the sanctity of those who believed in burning
men, women and children as witches, etc. At
the same time they professed to believe in the
Holy Bible, and upon which all profess

[Column 2]
to have founded their religion. But there we
find nothing to condemn dancing; but we do
read in Exodus, chapter xv, 20 21 verses:
	"And Miriam, the prophetess, the sister of
Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand, and all the
women went out after her with timbrels and
with dances. And Miriam answered them,
"Sing ye to the Lord, for He hath triumphed
gloriously." This same spirit was what filled
the hearts of the Saints of Nauvoo, who had
builded a Temple to the Most High. In the
midst of the most bitter poverty and persecu-
tion they had proven their faith by their works.
The Lord had been their shield and their de-
fense; though scourged and smitten from time
to time they had no cause to doubt but he
would still protect them and fight their battles.
This He had promised, through Joseph the
Prophet, that He would do, like as he did to
Moses in the case of the children of Israel if
they would go forward and do His bidding,
and after being delivered even out of the
seventh trouble their joy and gratitude was
poured out to their Deliverer in music and the
dance, and they felt to sing, "Thou in thy
mercy hast led forth the people, which thou
hast redeemed: thou hast guided them in thy
strength unto thy holy habitation."

"I'ts not to go to church to-day
And look devout and seem to pray,
And e'er to-morrow's sun goes down
Be dealing scandal through the town."

	"There are six things that the Lord hates,
yea, seven that He abhors—a proud look and
a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent
blood, a heart that deviseth evil imaginations,
feet that be swift to run to mischief, the false
witness that speaketh lies and he that soweth
discord among brethren."
	No one can truthfuly say that either Joseph
Smith's prophetic words, or those spoken by
Brigham Young and his brethren have failed.
Thousands upon thousands of this people can
testify to the fulfilment of their words spoken
concerning this latter day work in that early
day up to this time. They were placed upon
record for us and our posterity to read, fore-
telling events and what should be accomplished
in a far off country, of which we then knew
little or nothing. Then how can we disbelieve
the rest? And have we not witnessed and
helped to fulfil many of the predictions of
Isaiah? How plain and beautiful are these
words: "And there shall be a highway for the
remnant of His people, which shall be left
from Assyria, like as it was to Israel in the
day that he came up out of the land of
Egypt."
	"O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get
thee up into the high mountains; lift up thy
voice with strength, lift it up, be not afraid:
say unto the cities of Judah, Behold you God!
Who are these that fly as a cloud, and as the
doves to their windows? And the sons of
strangers shall build up thy walls, and their
kings shall minister unto thee, for in my wrath
I smote thee, but in my favor have I had mer-
cy on thee."
	"The sons also of them that afflicted thee
shall come bending unto thee; and all they
that despised thee shall bow themselves at the
soles of thy feet; and they shall call thee the
city of the Lord, the Zion of the Holy One of
Israel." "Fear not: for I am with thee: I will
bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee
from the west; I will say to the north give up;
and to the south keep not back: bring my sons
from far and my daughters from the ends of
the earth." We have cause to believe that
many of the sons and daughters of those who
persecuted the Saints are coming to a knowl-
edge of the truth, and already they are gather-
ing up to Zion; and how vain are the efforts of
man to put a veto to the great Latter-day
work which the Grand Ruler of the universe
has put his hand to, to accomplish in this the

[Column 3]
last dispensation of the fulness of time. Is it
not the sons of strangers that have brought
strength and muscle, and have builded our
walls and our cities, and assisted in bringing
this barren soil under subjection? Who are
these that fly as a cloud, and as the doves to
our windows, but the remnant of His people?
The prophet also said, "And the Gentiles shall
come to thy light, and the kings to the bright-
ness of thy rising. Lift up thine eyes round
about, and see: they gather themselves together,
they come to thee: thy sons shall come from
far and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy
side."
	But how many have remained true to those
sacred covenants made in the house of the
Lord, and continued true to the same? Has
He not been merciful, long-suffering and for-
bearing with us during all the years of our
pilgrimage? With all our sinfulness and in-
gratitude He has still extended towards us a
hand of mercy and prosperity. But are we
deserving the title of Latter-day Saints—follow-
ing as we are doing in the ways of Babylon,
and mixing up with the Gentile world till we
can scarcely be distinguished from them? "De-
part ye, depart ye, go ye out from thence,
touch no unclean thing; go ye out from the
midst of her, be ye clean that bear the vessels
of the Lord." So spoke the prophet Isaiah.
If we could but realize the great loss that we
are sustaining by disobeying any of the com-
mandments of God and remember that we
have got to render up to Him a strict account
for every act, word, and even every idle
thought, we would certainly do different, and
I think we would be more careful and put a
double guard upon that unruly member which
causes so many needless pangs and heart burn-
ings by the unfeeling criticisms, evil speaking
and tale bearing which are so commonly indul-
ged in—making mountains out of mole hills,
thereby sowing the seeds of enmity and dis-
cord and hatred between brothers and sisters,
and by those, too, who have covenanted before
God and His angels that they would cease the
practice and do it no more. Nor would there
be so striking a line drawn between the rich
and the poor by following and apeing, not
only the Babylonish styles, which are fast
creeping into our midst with all their stiff and
aristocratic forms, but other great evils which
are growing out of it. Pride and high mind-
edness we know that the Lord will not coun-
tanance. They are not according to the Gos-
pel nor the pattern set by our Savior, whose
only associates (we read) were the poor, and
they were looked down upon just as they are
to-day. It is very humiliating to confess that
we have such things in Zion, but which cannot
long be permitted for they are among the
greatest of sins, and which are calculated to
lead men and women down to perdition.

To be Continued.


