MY DEAR FATHER:
	I got along famously with the Dickinsons, as
you no doubt have heard, and I hope you were
pleased with my visit.		*		*		*		*
	When I bade you good bye before leaving
home you seemed to feel a little frightened
about Belle and myself coming alone, but we
have gotten on wonderfully, and by being care-
ful and prudent have never had the slightest
difficulty, and all things have gone on so
smoothly that I often feel there is a special care
to guard us safely. I have constantly thought
of your telling me about your prayers whenever
you were journeying, and I have always prayed
for the safety of all. How mysteriously and
beautifully does God perform his work; I could
not but think of this as I sat in that meeting at
Amherst, to see the interest that is being taken
in hunting out genealogies, and how they had
worked, not knowing the why and wherefore,
only that they had that ardent desire to trace
the lines of their ancestry, they know not why.
Some of the gentlemen said they had spent the
greater part of their time for six years in this
way.
	We have succeeded in finding out some our-
selves, I am happy to say, some Dickinsons,
Woodwards and Whitneys. We are having a
delightful time and in our humble way, I trust,
doing some good in allaying prejudice. We
have a great many questions asked us and have
met a great many nice people; I constantly pray
for wisdom that I might be enabled to answer
any question correctly and in a manner that
would please both you and my dear mother.
	Boston is a grand, old city and we have en-
joyed our sight seeing so much to-day. I wish
you could have been here with us; so many
points of historical interest in which you above
all others take such delight, among the first is
Bunker's Hill and the monument, they kindly
pointed out to us the exact spot where the
breastworks were erected and the position of all
the troops, and the place where Gen. Warren
fell. We also saw here a copy of the real Bos-
ton news Letter, yellow and torn, it is placed
under a glass case outside the hall; we bought
a copy from the real one as a curiosity. At the
back of the monument is a statue of Prescott.
We next visited the soldiers' monument a short
distance from "the Hill." This is of white
stone and consists of three figures; one I suppose
to be the goddess of liberty with a wreath of
flowers in her hand, and just below on the right
a soldier equipped for battle ,on the left a sailor,
thus representing the navy and military depart-
ments. Next came the navy yard; how grand
the big vessels did look.		*		*		*
Our trip to Boston from New York yesterday,
especially up the Hudson river was grand, such
scenery, totally beyond my poor pen to describe.
We arrived in Boston this morning about 7
o'clock, and have been sight seeing all day, so
we are pretty well given out.		*		*		*
	Your loving daughter,			LOUIE.

				ST. LOUIS, Sept. 3, 1883.

