BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	It is the 73rd anniversary of the birth of our
beloved and honored sister and mother in Isra-
el, Presendia L. Kimball. A goodly number of
the friends of this excellent lady have gathered
at her peaceful, quiet home in the 16th Ward,
as an acknowledgement of their appreciation of
her worth. They come with cheerful, happy
faces, their hearts full of blessings and baskets
of picnic. Sister Mary Gray takes charge of the
baskets and, with aids, arranges the tables pre-
paratory to lunch. No dinner ever surpasses a
well arranged picnic, (according to the writer’s
estimate) and such we partook of to-day. It is
not alone the ample repast which is provided to
satiate the appetite of the physical being, but
the pleasant chat, the kindly feeling and com-
pliments expressed, the soul-reviving senti-
ments which are sure to find utterance, and the
perfect freedom which exists around such tables,
that makes picnic dinners peculiarlly enjoya-
ble. Dinner over, we repaired to the cozy little
sitting room, and there resolve into a formal
meeting, over which Sister Phoebe Woodcuff

[Column 2]
being the senior lady present, is appointed to
preside. 
	Singing, “Come let us anew." Prayer by
Sister Lucy Russell. Sister Woodruff speaks of
the blessings surrounding us to-day, contrasting
these times to those in which her memory re-
calls, in connection with other similar events, a
day when one fine apple was given to her. This
apple she cut in four pieces, and each piece
served to make a dumpling for a dinner, and so
they had a good dinner each day for four days.
Sister Presendia saw such times; she has known
the trials and hardships through which the
Saints have passed, and now it is befitting that
her sisters should honor and bless her as they do
to-day. She has blest others all her life, and
may she be blest and live yet many years to
enjoy blessings upon this earth.
	Speeches follow from Sisters McLean, S. R.
Greene, Sanders, McAllister, Miss Vilate Cole,
Sisters Fanny Huntington, Fulmer, Miner,
Yure, Pyper, Pall, Paul, Dr. E. B. Furguson,
Buchannan, Brockhold, M. Gray, A. J. Hawley,
Rolfe, Harvey, Watmough, Emma Toone, Z.
D. Young, S. E. Russell and L. G. Richards.
	All ask blessings of long continued life and
happiness upon Sister Presendia; and testify to
the great power with which she is gifted in call-
ing down the blessings of God upon others, in
anointing and administering; also of her kind
and motherly disposition, her loving, sympa-
thetic nature, her wise counsel to the weak and
sorrowful, and her liberal heart and hands
toward all needing. The sisters are requested
to arise, and Sister Zina takes the lead in offer-
ing up petitions to the Almighty in behalf of
several friends who are seriously afflicted, to
which all unitedly responded Amen!
	Sister Presendia makes a brief speech. Her
heart is full of gratitude and blessings for her
sisters, and thankfulness to God. He blesses
her, she knows not how, only that she has what
she needs in the time thereof. She blesses her
sisters one and all, and hopes they are as happy
as their presence, with the favor of God, have
made her this day.
	She sits down, but is requested to take an-
other seat. She arises to comply with this re-
quest, and as she is about to take the chair
placed for her in the centre of the company, a
large and handsome winter cloak, appropriate
to her position and age, is thrown and wrapped
around her by Dr. Furguson, the instigator of
the plot. (This is not superfluous, my dear read-
ers, Sister Presendia had no comfortable winter
wrapper of any sort.)
	“This is too much!” said the “queen of the
day,” quite overcome. “Yes," responds one of
her court, coming forward for a kiss, “it is too
much and too warm for to-day, you are to wear
it next winter.”
	Then Sister Woodruff says, if we all want to
kiss “Aunt Presendia,” to do so, and then we
will dismiss. So we all kiss her while the cloak
is still around her.
	Perfect order is again established. We sing,
“Do what is right, let the consequence follow,"
and are dismissed with prayer by Sister E.
Toone. L. G. R.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 7, 1883.


