DEAR EDITOR:

	In your favor of the 17th you express a
wish for me to write an article. I must say
you have a better opinion of my abilities than
I have myself, or you would not make such a
request. And the thought immediately came,
what could I write that would be anyway in-
teresting to your many intelligent readers, or
worthy of a place in your excellent paper.
Then I was reminded of the passage of Scrip-
ture referring to the several talents which the
Lord has given to His children; some more
and some less, and the consequnces if they
failed to improve upon these talents, and I rea-
lized that if I failed to improve upon the one
talent which I may possess it would be taken
away and given to the one who already has
ten and improves them. And who could I
blame? Nobody but myself. We are all
children of one Great Parent, and He in His
tender mercy has placed them upon this earth,
that they might, through obedience to His laws,
secure to themselves an eternal inheritance in
in the Kingdom of our God, and He has given
to us qualities which, if properly cultivated and
improved upon, will give us a knowledge of
right and wrong. So we are really left with-
out excuse if we transgress any of the known
laws of God. But Satan, that arch enemy of
all that is good and pure is on the alert con-
tinually to tempt and place obstacles in our
way to lead us astray from the pathway so
plainly pointed out by our leaders. And
wherein is our safety from his wiles? It is only
in a faithful adherence to our duties day by
day. Attending to our prayers, for this is
indeed the key to unlock the blessings of hea-
ven to His faithful children, for the Lord is in-
deed and in truth a prayer hearing God. Who
is there among the Saints of God but have had
some experience of this kind, who when trouble
and sorrows gathered thickly around them


and they have bowed themselves before their
Heavenly Father in a humble and contrite
manner, with faith in their hearts, (for without
faith it is impossible to please God) and ask for
assistance that has failed to receive comfort
and consolation?
	What a blessing to realize that we are ac-
cepted of God, and that we have one friend,
although all others should fail us; that we can
bow the knee, too, in time of trouble and af-
fliction, and how clear and smooth our pathway
seems; the rays of light and joy that pervade
the heart is like sunshine after a storm, such
peace, and joy, and love towards all mankind,
it is realy a foretaste of heaven; and no happi-
ness which wealth or worldly honors could
give would bear comparison with it.
	I have written these few thoughts at random,
and you are welcome to use them as you see fit.
The EXPONENT is always a welcome visitor,
and no pleasure which I receive is so great as
the perusal of it. May the blessings of heaven
attend you in your labors, is the prayer of
your sister,						S. M. P.


