President J. Reuben Clark, Jr, Elder Albert E. Bowen Member of the Council of the Twelve EIGHTEEN years ago the senior member of a great engineering and contracting firm that had designed and built many of the mammoth works, public and private, over America, called at President Clark's Salt Lake City office. The visiting gentleman was entertained by the writer and informed that President Clark had recently gone to Mexico as special adviser to Ambassador Morrow. He said: "I congratulate Mr. Morrow. Reuben Clark is a tower of strength to any one fortunate enough to enlist his services." Such is the appraisal, by one qualified through personal experience and association, and long accustomed to deal intimately with men of eminence in our own and other lands, of the man whose services have been for the last twelve years freely and unstintingly given to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as a member of its First Presidency, and who now enters upon a new period of duty at the same post under the Presidency of George Albert Smith. Nor is the estimate above given a mere isolated instance of the high rating given to his ability and impeccable honor by men of high distinction with whom President Clark has worked. They include Presidents of the United States, Cabinet members representing the Departments of State, War, and Justice; members of the Supreme Court, and high ranking Army officials upon whose recommendation he was given the Distinguished Service Medal for exceptional accomplishments during the first World War. PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. On the flyleaf of the second volume of the second edition of the Selective Service Rules and Regulations coming from the press in 1919 Provost Marshal General Crowder inscribed: "To Major Reuben Clark In recognition of devoted self giving in an absorbing and difficult task and of as fine loyalty to a cause as I have ever witnessed." His numerous influential and powerful friends in the East have found it difficult to understand his abandoning offers of lucrative association and worldly prominence for the relative obscurity of his position in the Church with its absence of all chance for material emoluments. But President Clark does not look upon this as a sacrifice. Page  Neither does he pose as a martyr to the Cause. The reason is simple. While being fully aware of the power of money and its ability to minister to physical comfort, he knows that its acquisition or possession is, in terms of life, of but incidental and trivial consequence. He is not over-awed by it, nor by the assumptions of those who possess it. The sponsor of injustice or wrong though buttressed by the prestige or arrogance of wealth or high station would meet with as short shrift at the hands of President Clark as would the meanest pauper. His powerful mind has a way of brushing aside all the overburden of superficiality or deceptive gilding and laying the basic issue bare at the roots. He knows, too, how ephemeral worldly honor and public plaudits are. He is not seduced by them away from the central purpose of life. He has unwavering faith that there is divinity and immortality in man and that life should be ordered on a plane compatible with these high conceptions. President Clark came direct from the lay field to a place in the First Presidency of the Church. That is to say, he had not been through a period of service in lesser official positions. But to Latter-day Saints, there is nothing incongruous about that. He had been reared in a Latter-day Saint home where the principles and practices of the Church were matters of everyday consideration and observance. He had grown to maturity in intimate participation in the affairs of ward and stake. From childhood he had absorbed the ideals, requirements, and doctrines of the Church. They were in the marrow of his bones. He is a meticulous student of the Bible and particularly the life and teachings of the Savior. He knows the other scriptures. Happily for the great body of the laity of the Church, and for their consolation, God has so provided that official position is not necessary to gaining of experience. Wisdom may ripen in lay service. The Lord seems to have the habit of drawing upon experience suited to the need of any time without regard to where the experience might have been garnered. President Clark's rich and varied experiences, coupled with his humility and fidelity to God and his work, have admirably fitted him to the needs of this time. All his powers and all his experience he lays at the feet of the Church to help guide it amid the scenes where it must do its work in the troubled days of a momentous era. The Lorelei, no longer confined to their native habitat on the banks of the Rhine, still sing their siren songs. Great wisdom and discernment, advantaged by wide experience in the ways of men and of nations are needed. Of the arts of blandishment he knows nothing. If honestly rendered service with whole-souled devotion to duty and unwavering fidelity to those who have honored him with their trust cannot win, he has no other means to employ. Subterfuge, (Concluded on page 448)