Evon Waspe Peterson, Leone O. Jacobs and Velma N. Simonsen. EDITOR APPOINTED Marianne C. Sharp who has served as associate editor of Thesince August 1943, and who for several months prior to that period was assistant to the editor, has been appointed editor of the Magazine succeeding Belle S. Spafford. Sister Sharp will hold this position in addition to serving as counselor in the general presidency. The editorial ability of Marianne C. Sharp is reflected in the excellence of the issues of the Magazine edited by her, and also in A Centenary of Relief Society which she assisted in preparing and which was published by the General Board in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the Society. President Lyman in evaluating Sister Sharp's contribution to this publication said: "Mrs. Sharp's contribution to the general excellence of the publication was important and valuable. She has a natural interest in historical happenings, and this book bears evidence of the thoroughness of her research, her good judgment in evaluating historical events, and the accuracy with which she records historical facts." MARIANNE CLARK SHARP Appointed Editor President Lyman paid tribute to the general editorial ability of Mrs. Sharp as follows: "Mrs. Sharp has a fine intellect, discriminating judgment, and excellent literary taste. She is sensitive to the reading interests and needs of Latter-day Saint women, and meticulous in the preparing of Magazine material. She is willing to work long and hard to maintain high standards of excellence." Under the direct supervision of Sister Sharp, Thewill go on to new heights of excellence. Called at this time to assist Sister Sharp in editing the Magazine is Vesta Pierce Crawford who is one year in the Utah State poetry named editorial secretary. Sister contest, and first one year in the Crawford, whose husband, Arthur L. Salt Lake Tribune short-story con-Crawford, is a member of the faculty test. Her contributions to Church of the Utah Engineering Experi- magazines are well known. The ment Station, University of Utah, readers of The Relief Society Mag-is a graduate of Brigham Young Uni- azine will welcome the addition of versity, where she was associate edi- Vesta Pierce Crawford to the edi-tor of both the newspaper and the torial staff. Her outstanding literary literary magazine. She studied litera- gifts in both the fields of poetry ture at Stanford University and re- and prose are well recognized by ceived her Master's Degree from the readers of the Magazine where her University of Wyoming. She has poems and stories, many of them been a teacher of English in Provo prize-winners, have appeared. and Murray schools, the Salt Lake Note: Sketches and pictures of the retir-City Civic Center, and the Uni- ing executive officers and new general versity of Utah. For several years presidency of Relief Society appear in the she has been a regular contributor of May 1945 issue of The Relief Society stories, poems, and articles to na- Magazine. Sketches of members retiring tional magazines. She placed first from the former Board appear in earlier issues of the Magazine. LOVE THIS GREAT, WIDE WORLD Essie Bateman Sisk