Sixty years ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations" From a letter to the Editor, Emmeline B. Wells, written by Augusta Winters [Grant]: We had a pleasant trip from Salt Lake to New York stopped at various points of interest along the way, not forgetting one lovely day at Niagara Falls.... Since our arrival we have been visiting most of the time in the vicinity of Bethel, and other small villages, situated on the Androscoggin in Maine I like this part of the country very much for summer. I never get tired of walking through the woods, where so many pretty wild flowers, ferns and mosses can be found, and the grandest trees, rocks and waterfalls..... both mother's health and mine is very good, and we have found many kind friends here. Notes and News: Sixteen women graduated this year from the medical department of the Iowa State University A California lady has discovered a process for pre serving the juices of citrus fruits with their natural flavor and without fermentation The bill requiring temperance, physiology and hygiene to be taught in the public schools was passed in the Massachusetts House of Representatives last Thursday. As from fairest fields of Eden, Floateth echoes of a song, Like the rainbow arch at even Bringing gladness after storm. So we clasp love's priceless token, Mark the summer passing by; Flowers bloom, and fruitage golden. Singing o'er "sweet bye and bye.",  L. M. Hewlings, Editorial: In childhood's days the very mention of "Independence Day" sent the blood tingling through our veins, and no exertion was too much to celebrate the memorable occasion. Have we forgotten these early impressions, and the patriotism we drank in with the very air we breathed? No, we have not; they are with us still, and the same love of liberty and consciousness of freedom to worship God, that we inherited as our birthright, still remains strong and dominant in our nature In America, the land of the free and the home of the brave, a land blest above all other lands, with a Constitution greater and grander than any upon the face of the earth, the Lord raised up in this age of the world a prophet, and gave him a message of life and salvation and a warning unto all people Too many of the forefathers of this people bled and died for that independence of which the stars and stripes are significant, and they know what the feeling of genuine love of country is, and feel it too deeply to make light of any of its symbols. Silent Communings by Hannah T. King: My other self and I have had a long colloquy this evening upon many deep and important subjects, upon which it is good to ruminate. I believe the meditations were caused by attending, a few days before. Doctor Ellis Shipp's lecture so I promptly summoned my private secretary (my pen) and we set to work to make palpable some of these reflections what a marvelous piece of mechanism the human organism presents. Page 412