LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 8?A Period of Prophecy Dr. H. Wayne Diiggs For Tuesday, May 1, 1945
Objective: To establish the test of a prophet and to study events that prompted the words of the modern seer, Joseph Smith. IN the days of ancient Israel the Lord made clear the way in which his people might know his voice. To Moses came the word, "There shall not be found among you any one that maketh his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, or that useth divination, or an observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch, or a charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a necromancer. For all that do these things are an abomination unto the Lord: and because of these abominations the Lord thy God doth drive them out from before thee. Thou shalt be perfect with the Lord thy God. For these nations, which thou shalt possess, hearkened unto observers of times, and unto diviners: but as for thee, the Lord thy God hath not suffered thee so to do. The Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a Prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; unto him ye shall hearken; And it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not hearken unto my words which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him. But the prophet which shall presume to speak a word in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in the name of other gods, even that prophet shall die. And if thou say in thine heart, How shall we know the word which the Lord hath not spoken? When a prophet speaketh in the name of the Lord, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord hath not spoken, but the prophet hath spoken it presumptuously: thou shall not be afraid of him." (Deut. 18:10-15, 19-22). The words of a true prophet will come to pass. Not since the days of the apostles in the meridian of time had the Lord raised up a prophet according to this pattern, until, upon that spring morning in the year of 1820, when the young Joseph Smith put to a Page 113 test the power of godliness. From that day on, for a period of some twenty-four years?the remaining time of mortal life allotted to this Prophet of the Lord?there lived among men one accepted of God, worthy to receive his word in opening the dispensation of the fulness of times. Within that short quarter of a century, there lived a modern seer whose contact with the Almighty was so close that the very whisperings of his voice were unmistakable.
What were the words of this leader of mortal Israel, and how did he deliver them? Were any of his associates ever present during the times revelations came? How would they know he was truly "in the spirit" and not obsessed as a "charmer of wizard"? What of his countenance, his voice, under such visionary experiences? As for the supreme test, when he spoke in the name of the Lord did the thing of which he spoke ever come to pass within the lives of those who heard? These and dozens of similar questions will flood the mind of an earnest seeker after truth today, just as they did when Joseph the Prophet himself walked among men.
We do have the answers to these and many other questions like them now; first, in the recorded words of the men and women who lived with and knew the Prophet intimately; and second, in the unfailing and literal fulfillment of many of his prophecies within the lives of those who heard them uttered.
Within the limited words allotted for these lessons, it is impossible to include even a hundredth part of the many facts now on record which bear testimony of the divine calling of Joseph Smith. We must therefore include but a few more widely known and readily appreciated about the Prophet's way of receiving revelations, as well as some of the timely predictions he gave which now we can look back upon with wonder.