[Vol32 | February 1945 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]
Several years ago Eddie ity. The temple is located on the Cantor oﬀered a
$5000 prize to high mount of service beside life's high-school students for
the best essay on way. The great sustaining pillars peace. Out of the

thousands of en which support the entire structure tries a young man was
selected and are self-respect, self-eﬀort, self-con-taken to New York City
to be hon trol, and self-poise. The foundations ored and awarded the prize.
But be of the temple are honesty, trust-fore the end, it was discovered that
worthiness, sincerity, and courage, he had copied a large proportion of The
ﬂoor is made up of persever-his essay word for word from a maga ance,
temperance, frankness, and zine article published a few years humility. The
doors for entrance in-earlier. Needless to say, he went to the temple are
faith, a passion for home in disgrace and without the the truth, an interest in
all life, con-prize, all because he had failed to stant industry and eﬀort, and
a wake-understand the meaning of plagiar ful conscience. The windows of
the ism. These are only two of many temple, which represent the attitude
examples that could be given to il of a righteous soul, are a genuine in-
lustrate the existence of basic dis terest in life, a sympathetic under-honesty
in society around us. Studies standing of others, tolerance, and reveal that
quite a high percentage of love. The color scheme is cheerful-our young
people copy and cheat in ness blended with reﬁnement, kind-school. But
the problem doesn't stop liness, gentleness, and gratitude. The there. Even a
cursory self-analysis dome or crowning feature of this along with an
examination of society temple of character is made up of at large will
reveal that cheating is charitableness and altruistic service, not conﬁned to
school nor to the Some of these features of charac-young alone. ter we have
already discussed in Those who seek to build or pro eadier lessons, and
others will be ex-tect their reputation by deceit will amined on later dates.
While the do well to remember that, "nothing scheme obviously is not
perfect as it is secret that shall not be made mani stands, it is at least
suggestive. With fest; neither any thing hid that shall close study, it may
seem desirable to not be known and come abroad" add additional qualities
of character (Luke 8:17). ^ot mentioned here or to rearrange
the order and relative position of
^L D 7 Li^ X- • ^L X t^^ose given. But, perfect or not,
x^ ? .^ .T'^ in Character ^^^^ a scheme should at least prove
Hugh M. Woodward (Humani helpful in any character analysis,
ty s Greatest "t^ttd, pp. 117-120) fol jo the writer the most signiﬁcant
lowmg an arrangement by Mrs. No thing about this temple of character

neita Richardson, summarizes the i^ the including of honesty in the
major qualities of character by com foundation. It would be impossible
paring them to the construction ele to even conceive of character with-