[Vol32 | February 1945 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Two Bailey]
And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals; and I heard, as it were
the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come and see. And I
saw, and behold a white horse: he that sat on him had a bow; and a crown
was given unto him: and he went forth conquering, and to conquer.
And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast say,
Come and see. And there went out another horse that was red: and power
was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that they
should kill one another: and there was given unto him a great sword.
And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast say, Come
and see. And I beheld, and lo a black horse; and he that sat on him had a
pair of balances in his hand. And I heard a voice in the midst of the four
beasts say, A measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley
for a penny; and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine. And when he had
opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say. Come and
see. And I looked, and behold a pale horse; and his name that sat on him
was Death, and Hell followed with him. . . . (Revelation 6:1-8).
These were the four famed horses and horsemen of the Apocalypse
signifying. Captivity, War, Famine and Death. How often since the days of
this vision of John, have these elements of destruction gone forth to
conquer, to ﬁght, to dole out a pittance of food to the starving, to spread
death! How tragically applicable is this dramatic picture to our war-torn
world today!
LESSON DEPARTMENT
121
The ﬁfth seal broken, John "saw under the altar the souls of them that were
slain for the word of God, and for the testimony that they held: And they
cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou
not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?
And white robes were given unto every one of them; and it* was said unto
them, that they should rest yet for a little season, until their fellow-servants
also and their brethren, that should be killed as they were, should be
fulﬁlled."

One can sense here the feeling of John himself in the shadow of death, as
he thought back of the martyrs for Christ, and those that yet would suﬀer
death for his gospel. Yet the beloved Apostle looked beyond the clouds and
the wrath of God.
With the breaking of the sixth seal, comes the opening of destructions upon
the world. And while the earth quakes and mountains and islands are
moved out of their place, and men, high and low, hide themselves in dens
and rocks, John sees the protecting angels holding back the destructive
forces until other angels shall place the saving seal on the foreheads of the
servants of God.
The Revelation continues:
These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their
robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. . . .They shall
hunger no more, neither thirst any more; . . For the Lamb which is in the
midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living
fountains of waters: and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes
(Revelation 7:14-17).
as these buoyed up hearts of suﬀering saints of those earlier days. They
have brought comfort and courage to the righteous of all time.
When the seventh seal of the book was opened, ''there was silence in
heaven about the space of half an hour."
The vision continues:
And I saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to them were
given seven trumpets.
And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer; and
there was given unto him much incense, that he should oﬀer it with the
prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne. And
the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of the saints,
ascended up before God out of the angel's hand.
And the angel took the censer, and ﬁlled it with ﬁre of the altar, and cast it
into the earth: and there were voices, and thunderings, and lightnings and
an earthquake. And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets

prepared themselves to sound (Rev. 8:2-6).
Another dramatic portrayal follows of the woes that came upon the earth.
Hail and ﬁre, a darkening of the sun, smoke from the bottomless pit,
locusts, scorpions, earthquakes and other plagues and calamities, spread
terror and destruction.
And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels fought against the
dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels. And prevailed not; neither
was their place found any more in heaven. And the great dragon was cast
out, that old serpent called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole
world: he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.
And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation, and
strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ. . . ."
(Rev. 12:7-10).
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1945
Satan does not cease his wicked work. In form of dragon and beast he
reappears to lure men, to make them fear and worship him. He wars on the
saints, overcomes them 'and power was given him over all kindreds, and
tongues and nations . . /' (Rev. 13:7)—all save those whose names are
"written in the book of hfe." John continues:
And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the Mount Sion, and with him an
hundred forty and four thousand, having his Father's name written in their
foreheads.
And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and as the
voice of a great thunder: and I heard the voice of harpers harping with their
harps:
And they sung as it were a new song before the throne, and before the four
beasts, and the elders: and no man could learn that song but the hundred
and forty and four thousand, which were redeemed from the'earth
(Revelation 14:1-3).
Following these and other lines of exaltation, descriptive of the pure in
heart, comes a scriptural passage dear to every Latter-day Saint.