[Vol32 | February 1945 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Bureau Second Prize Crawford]
The Bureau
Vesta Pierce Crawford
VESTA PIERCE CRAWFORD
YOU remember your Grandma Watts, don't you? Bertha Carlson, she was,
before she married me. You remember when she died, but that was a long
time ago and you were living in California.
I suppose Bertha was very much like other women, only better. But when
we were young I thought there was one particular thing about her that was
peculiar. She set her heart on a piece of furniture.
Page 72
I remember the ﬁrst time Bertha mentioned wanting a bureau. We called
them bureaus then, although I hear your wife referring to them as chests of
drawers. We needed bureaus badly because the houses had no built-in
cabinets. We had just moved into our ﬁrst home—one room. There sat
Bertha on the ﬂoor with a heap of bundles around her, all her wedding
ﬁnery. She held some lacey things in her pretty hands and she looked at me
with coaxing
blue eyes. '7^^^/' ^^^ ^^^^y '^ ^^ wish I had a bureau."

I bent down and put my arms around her and kissed her auburn hair, and I
said, ''Don't you worry, Bertha. I'm the one that's going to get you a bureau
and everything else you want."
I didn't know then what I've learned since or I wouldn't have made
promises. I never would have made promises. It takes a long time to learn
things, and sometimes you don't learn until it is too late.
Bertha must have thought of that bureau a lot after she ﬁrst mentioned it.
Just before our ﬁrst baby came she asked about it again. She had all the
clothes about done, stacks of them, but where she got the cloth from I don't
know, for I wasn't making much. Dry farming, you know.
depends on the weather. You don't When I saw Bertha getting old
have a regular income. So, as I said and frail looking, I was worried. She
before, I don't know where Bertha never mentioned the bureau any
got the cloth for the baby clothes, more. I did manage to buy some
Maybe her folks gave her some or furniture, a sofa, and a leather chair,
she might have cut up some of her and a desk for the parlor. We got
wedding things. along and we tried to be kind to
I can't forget that evening. It was each other. But even when I was
November and the wind rattled the alone, her voice seemed to be ring-door.
Bertha was sitting by the ing in my ears. This was strange, kitchen range
with her crochet hook for Bertha was a quiet woman by ﬂying, and there,
piled on the table nature and she was never one to nag were the baby
things. She said she about anything. Once when I was felt pretty good and
she laid down sitting at sundown on a ledge above the crocheting and
started to ﬁx my the river a light wind was blowing, supper. She began to
move the Then, all at once, I thought I could things oﬀ the table. Then she
see Bertha coming up the cliﬀ, and stopped and said, ''John, dear, I do I
thought I heard her say, ''J^l^"? wish I had a bureau. It would be I do need a
bureau." nice if I had some drawers to put I was terribly ashamed of myself
these things in." and I made up my mind to get the

I put my arm on her shoulder and bureau at once. Our youngest
I asked, ''How much do they cost?" daughter, Emily, was going to get
"Maybe ﬁfteen dollars," she said, married. Her mother kept sewing
"or twenty-ﬁve for a big solid-oak and sewing, and there were patterns
one." and goods and thread scattered all
But I didn't have a ﬁve in my about and stacks of new things
pocket. around. One afternoon I came in
The next day I went to the store early from the ﬁeld, and there sat
and got a big empty dry-goods box. Bertha at the sewing machine,
and together we lined it with cloth treadling fast. She stopped sudden-
and put the baby clothes in it, and ly and looked up at me. In a minute
Bertha seemed contented. tears were streaming down her face.
Queer about women, though. She She turned away and treadled again,
had her heart set on the bureau. Emily went over and touched Ber-
Never asked for much else, and I tha's gray hair and asked, "What's
made up my mind I'd get the bur the matter. Mother?"
eau for her as soon as ever I could. I knew what it was. She wanted
That wasn't easy to do, for we that bureau so that Emily's wedding
always needed something else worse things could be put away and kept
—a new cook stove, a carpet, some in good shape until she was ready
tools or machinery. Then we had for them.
to build on to the house and make This time I was surely going to

it larger, as you see it now, with this get the bureau. I told Emily my
fancy porch and the bedrooms and plans. I was going to surprise her
all. We had ﬁve children and we mother by bringing home a bureau,
needed the extra rooms. On the way to town I met Bart
ftELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1945
Sanders. He asked me if I wanted to buy his mowing machine. He was
moving away and the machine was a good buy. I needed it the worst kind
for my own mower was broken down, and was always at the blacksmith
shop just when I needed it most. A good machine would be an investment.
I told Bart I would take it and pay cash down.
I hated to do it, but I thought that sometime later I could buy a better
bureau for Bertha and she would be that much more pleased. She could
aﬀord to wait a while longer since she wasn't expecting the bureau anyway.
I went home with the mowing machine and showed it to Bertha and Emily,
but I didn't say anything about having intended to spend the money in
another way.
CIX months later our Emily got married. Bertha and I were alone in the
house. Alone. I tell you I never heard so much silence. Then one night after
supper when I was sitting at one side of the table and Bertha across from
me, she said quietly, 'Tou didn't get it, did you?"
I shifted around in the chair. "Get what. Bertha?"
Her voice was level. 'The bureau. Emily told me you were going to get a
bureau to keep her wedding things in. I believed you really would. But it
doesn't matter any more. Now the children have come and gone there isn't
anything left to use a bureau for."
Her face was gray and she didn't say anything more. After a while she went
into the bedroom and closed the door quietly. I don't remember how long I
sat at the table.
She wouldn't need a bureau now, she had said, but a woman can always use