[Vol32 | February 1945 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: A Pioneer Story The Big Pingree]
A Pioneer Story—The Big
Horn Basin
Pauline Taggart Pingree Member of Relief Society General Board
GRANDMOTHER Janet Me ent for nursing, and she always
Niven was left a widow with seemed to know what to do in an
two small children, a son, emergency—and there were many

James, and a daughter, Jessie, when emergencies on the plains. Fortune
she was a young woman. She lived seems to smile upon those women
in Edinburgh, Scotland, until 1861, who roll up their sleeves and put
when she heard the gospel preached their shoulders to the wheel; upon
by the Mormon missionaries and women who are not afraid of dreary,
became convinced of its truthful dry, irksome drudgery, who do not
ness, and was baptized. turn aside for obstacles, whether
As did most people during the great or small. "He alone is great early days
of the Church, she desired who by a life heroic conquers fate." to come to
Zion, so she sold her Grandmother and her two chil-business and all her
household be dren did arrive safely in Salt Lake, longings, said goodbye to
her kin and after a time she was married to dred and friends, and started out
Robert Hogg. Her joy at being in with her two children for a new Salt Lake
with the saints was short-world and a new life. lived, however. Brigham
Young was
They crossed the Atlantic Ocean calling men to go north, east, south,
in the good ship Underwriter, leav and west to start new communities,
ing Scotland the middle of March Grandmother, her husband, and
and arriving in New York on May children were sent to the little valley
22, 1861. These saints, with others, of Morgan where they settled in the
were presided over by Charles W. town which is now known as Mil-
Penrose, Milo Andrus, and Homer ton, about ﬁve miles from Morgan
Duncan. The six weeks' voyage was City. Here they built the ﬁrst house
very rough; many were ill, and one in that locality. The ﬁrst v^ntej
man died and was buried at sea. A they had only one sack of ﬂour and

weary trek across the plains followed a very few necessities, and the winter
their arrival in America. Imagine the was very severe,
heartache of grandmother with no Jessie (my mother) was now nine
companion to help her share her re years of age. There were no schools
sponsibilities! She had supreme of any kind in Morgan County and
faith, however, that she would very few books. Mother learned to
reach her destination and be able read and spell from the songbooks
to make a home for herself and chil in Church. She was a beautiful
dren. She was also very wise and singer, and she loved to read the
very thrifty. She had a natural tal hymns as well as to sing them. In
Page 76
THE BIG HORN BASIN
77