[Vol32 | February 1945 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Mother-in-Law]
GRACE found the timetable on a rainy Sunday afternoon.

Beth had put on her coat and tied a scarf around her bright hair, and Grace had almost said, "Don't go out in the rain, Beth; you'll catch cold!" Almost. She remembered in time that it would sound mother-in-lawish, and held her tongue.

Beth went out in the rain and turned south toward the path over the slope at the end of the street.

Grace picked up the book Beth had been reading and a folder fell out of it. It was a railroad timetable.

Grace stared at it silently and realized what it meant. It meant Beth was going to leave her and go back to her aunt in Texas. It meant that Beth couldn't stand it here any longer. It meant that Grace had failed as a mother-in-law. She had tried so hard! She had come to love Beth deeply.

Where had she failed?

What had she done?

Grace could remember every detail of that crisp fall day when Beth had arrived.

"Well, all dressed up to impress your new daughter-in-law!" Bill Johnson teased Grace, as she hurried into the little station.

Grace smiled nervously and smoothed her new gloves. "How soon will the train be in?" she asked.

"Any minute now," said Bill. "Yep, here she comes."

Grace looked quickly to see if her stocking seams were straight. She hoped she looked all right. How should a mother-in-law act? Mother-in-law is such an alien word! She did want Tommy's wife to like her.

Tommy had written, "... so I'm sending Beth to you. There's no use of you both living alone. You'll be less lonesome together, and Beth hasn't any folks at all except her aunt and uncle here in Texas. She'll be the daughter you've always wanted. Take good care of her for me, will you, Mom?"

The train wheezed to a stop.

Watching the steps, Grace thought, Let's see, I musn't be bossy, or prying, or critical. Then Beth stepped off the train. She was tall. Poised. She wore a brown suit and a brown felt hat. She looked around an instant and then walked quickly to Grace.

"You're Tommy's mother," she said.

"Hello, my dear," said Grace. She put her arms around the girl and kissed her. Beth's skin was fresh and sweet; Grace felt a surge of warmth in her heart.

They smiled at each other, and then, because there was so much to say, Grace couldn't think of a thing. "The car is out this way," she said, feebly, and picked up one of the suitcases.

Beth picked up the other and they went to the car.

"You must be hungry," said Grace. "It's almost noon." She drove downtown to Weston's best cafe.

At the cafe, Grace's shyness subsided.

They ordered.

"Now tell me about Tommy," Grace said.

"He's fine," said Beth. "Or he was when he left. He doesn't know where he's going, of course, but I guess it'll be overseas." She looked steadily at Grace. "I have expected that," said Grace quietly.

"He's a grand guy," Beth's voice was husky. "We—I—" she stopped and then tried again. "You must be proud of him."

"I am," said Grace. She felt that she must say something to make Beth know she was welcome. "I want you to know how glad I am you came here to stay with me," she said. It sounded like a speech, and Grace hadn't meant it that way at all.

"Thank you," said Beth.

When they were in the car again, Grace said suddenly, "Oh, your trunk. I forgot about it. Shall we go back and pick it up? If it isn't too big, I think it would go on the luggage rack."

"I— there isn't any trunk," said Beth. "Just my suitcases."

"Oh," said Grace. She wished she hadn't mentioned it. She didn't care whether Beth had one piece of luggage or twenty; she was only trying to be thoughtful. I'll be more careful, she vowed mentally. I won't pry.

So at home she showed Beth to Tommy's room, which was to be hers, and then left her. She fussed around making a chocolate cake, fixing the roast which she had bought for the occasion. Her mind raced ahead to the days when she and Beth would not be strangers.

Beth was a lovely girl—exactly the way you would want a daughter to be. Oh, they could make quilts and linens for her, against the day when Tommy would come back and they would want a home of their own.
