[Vol32 | February 1945 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Pohlman]
FEBRUARY
Leone E. McCune
Ghostlike February, In your tattered gown. Hovering sad and lonely,
Trailing up and down.
You drift in the hollow 'Neath the moonlit hill. You shriek around the
corner, Weep upon my sill.
I hear you at dawning; Moaning sad and low, Wandering like a lost soul.
Knows not where to go.
You will follow winter When the sun rides high, And pussy willows unfold
To a clear blue sky.
^<s^^
FROM THE FIELD
^B^
Vera ^hiiQ Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field"
appear in the Magazine for February 1944, P^g^ ^°4-
MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS
Australian Mission TUNE CANNON ORME, recently •^released president
of Relief Societies of this mission, wrote September 14, 1944:
'The work of the Relief Society is greater now than ever before within the
mission. With the strain of this present time weighing heavily upon the
women of the mission, the lessons and work outlined by the General Board
is more and more appreciated. The constant visits and need for home life
by servicemen from many nations is being met by the women within the
mission in a most admirable manner. The mission home, alone, gives
relaxation to literally scores each month. Many of the sisters are doing their
best to relieve the situation by opening their own homes, and have done so
for many months. It is a wonderful labor and a very happy work. We

appreciate more than we can ever tell the contact we have with the sons of
so many mothers at home. Ninety-nine per cent of those mothers in Zion
can rest assured that their sons are clean before the Lord; this same thing
can be said of those mothers who have daughters in the services. We get to
know them very well in their visits, we have them living and eating and
praying, studying and relaxing with us, and their Page 104
attitudes and their worth speak well for the homes from which they come.
The groups they form in advanced bases and the diﬃculties they surmount
to form those groups is a living testimony of the ﬁne homes from which
they have come. Tlieir devotion and desire to make contact with the
Ghurch upon arrival is a healthy sign. It is impossible to write an individual
letter or history concerning each because they come and go so quickly, but
such sons and daughters speak well for the women of the Ghurch who are
their mothers. I do not wish to depreciate the brethren who are the fathers
in any way, but I am speaking only as a woman and knowing the program
of the Relief Society, I think it is good, once in a while, to view the fruits of
those who belong to this society."
Ca/ifornia Mission jyrRS. GLYDE BOOTHE, president of the Laguna-
Beach Relief Society, wrote recently: ''Laguna Beach is a very picturesque
little city, situated on the shores of the beautiful blue Paciﬁc. The hills form
a wonderful background, with lovely homes trailing to the upmost top of
them.
"We were organized September 6,
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
105