[Vol32 | February 1945 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: February McCune]
learn the causes of greatness and can (3) Make a design for a counter-
estimate the scale of a nation's at pane using the motif grapes, grape
tainments and culture. In this way, leaves, or a petunia, or an oak leaf
admiration for the best is developed, and acorn pattern could be used,
establishing friendly relations be (4) Do you make real lace? Then tween
nations. you would ﬁnd a delightful exercise The world's cultural loss
because in creating a rose design for a real of the present satanic world
conﬂict lace collar.
is of colossal proportions. The heart (5) Make a sego lily design for a
breaking truth is that it may take a bedroom paper.
Page 67
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1945
(6) Using the mountain maidenhair fern and a wild rose, create a design for
a tablecloth.
(7) By this time you will be prepared to design a picture.
UJesign your [Picture
Go out with your sketching pad and colored crayons, and put in a blue sky
with a white cloud. Place a hill with white snow patches that will repeat the
white cloud. Draw in a farmhouse. Now add a group of Cottonwood trees
which will seem to love and protect the house. Make a path that leads to the
front steps. The trees will have some leaf buds opening, to repeat the greens
on the lawn and garden in front of the house.
r
Now organize what you have sketched into a diamond in a square. Millet
liked to compose his pictures that way.
Values in a [Picture
Look at your picture and answer these important questions:
1. Is the sky a dome or is it ﬂat like a vertical wall?

2. Does the foreground come forward to meet you?
3. Does the background stay back?
4. Does the farmhouse stay in front of the trees?
5. Do the trees stay in front of the hill?
6. Is the sky behind the hill?
7. Do you feel there is another side to the hill?
8. Does the path come to you?
If you answer "yes" to these questions, you have what artists name "good
values."
The "values" of a painting is important for you want to feel spatial
relations. It would feel awkward to
make a house you could not walk around.
c/t UJofninating cJnetne
In your picture there should be a dominating subject. You might use a
dozen other subjects, but each and all of these should be subservient to the
main point of interest. So, please, do not choose a painting which is divided
in interest, in other words, constitutes two pictures instead of one.
Therefore, always search for the dominating theme and discover if all of
the minor details are needed to strengthen the dominating theme.
J\n sbxercise in [Painting (greens
An artist once asked me to give him a criticism on his exhibition. Three
paintings hung side by side: The ﬁrst, Yellowstone Park; the second.
Southern Utah; the third. Salt Lake Valley looking toward the Wasatch
Mountains.
"I fear you will not like my criticism."
"Please tell me what you see in my work."
Nothing could keep me from giving an honest criticism where it was so

much needed.
"You are lazy. You are not observing. The way you paint green accuses
you. Green is what the light makes it. Your greens seem to have all been
mixed in one pot. Notice that the greens at the top, as well as at the bottom
in your Yellowstone Mountain, are exactly like the patches of green at the
top and bottom of the Wasatch Mountains. Now compare the greens on
your Dixie Mountain. There is no variation. If you will study the
greens in any landscape, such as you posterity. It is ever true that na-
have painted here, I am sure you tions are known and remembered
will ﬁnd light greens, dark greens, by what was accomplished in art
warm greens, and cool greens. Do before that nation was cleft in twain
you need glasses or is it laziness by designing men of that or some
