1 EDITORIAL President Louise Yates Robison With the ushering in of the new year we present the new president, Louise 'Yates Robison, who, on October 7, 1928, was sustained in the General Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as seventh General President of the Relief Society. President Robison comes to this important office with a number of outstanding qualifications. Kindliness and good will towards others is with her both a science and an art. It is part of her natural equipment from both inheritance and cultivation. Since relief work is the phase on which chief emphasis is placed in the organization the inclination to help those who are in need of help must be a main part of the equipment of any president of a Relief Society. Two things a good executive must be able to do: she must have the vision to see what is necessary to be done; also she must have the executive ability to carry out the things she sees. Some people have the mental ability to map out work but lack the art of putting over the plan after it has been formulated. Others have the power to execute, but lack the vision to see or know what were good to be done. President Robison appears to combine the ability of both seeing and doing.
EDITORIAL
It is almost axiomatic that a real leader will call around her people well suited to perform the particular tasks to which they are assigned. President Robison is, therefore, to be congratulated on her choice of counselors and secretary. It is one of the high points of leadership to surround oneself with efficient help; and in her first official act?that of selecting an efficient executive committee?she has given evidence of this high order of leadership.
The new president was trained in a home in Scipio, where the possibilities for learning and refinement under pioneer conditions taxed in the highest degree those who lived in the community. All that could be achieved had to be wrought through hard work, with such help as our Father lends to those who diligently seek and serve him. In such an environment Mrs. Robison was reared. She has developed a high degree of spirituality which can be felt by those with whom she meets or labors. The deep joy she experiences in her Temple work is added evidence of her love for things spiritual. Through the experience of her lifetime she has learned to rely on the Lord; and where she places her reliance, she will lead others to place theirs. She believes in the ultimate triumph of good; and where her faith is, her works will follow.
In public address the new president is persuasive. Lighting up and transforming all her thoughts is a countenance of rare sweetness. Her charm and grace of manner, which are part of a really lovely personality, will shed a benediction on every stake that she may visit. She will be a most welcome visitor wherever it is her good pleasure to go; for one of her gifts is the ability to touch and win the hearts of those with whom she comes in contact.