A Gift For Him Lella Marler Hoggan ONG ago the Magi followed a starlit path across the world to the manger cradle of the Christ child. They came that they might kneel in reverence before Him and acknowledge Him their king. They brought for Him rare gifts. Since that day long ago the beautiful custom of giving gifts on His birthday has continued. This one day of all the year is set apart in our hearts as a day on which to give and forgive, that we may be at peace with Him. Life is a pilgrimage, a long search for happiness. As we follow dim trails down the years we gather treasures along the way, gifts that we hope will bring us eternal joy. But do we always choose wisely and well? Here are bright coins to add to our material gain, and here are symbols to increase our worldly power. Here is a charm that will give us social prestige, and here a secret that will magnify our efficiency. As we look. Over our acquired possessions we feel very self-confident. Out of the years we feel that we have gathered a goodly store. But at the season of gift giving we are conscious of the nearness of an unseen presence that sets our hearts singing. We stand in awed silence in contemplation of the life of Him whose birth we celebrate. Were He a Christmas guest in our home, would we be prepared to receive Him? Would we have a token of affection for Him whose natal Page 824 day we commemorate? Would we have an appropriate gift for the Giver of all good gifts? Or would we spread our treasures before us that we might see them more plainly, and failing to find in our prized collection anything that would be suitable, would our store of treasures seem suddenly to lose its value? A gift for the King of Kings, the Prince of Peace! Where in all the world could one find a gift worthy of Him? What could come out of humble lives that would be great enough to offer Him? Let us remember that the greatest gifts are not something that can be held in our two hands, something that can be obtained suddenly. Great gifts grow with the years out of the fulness of the heart: love of fellow man, devotion to a great cause, high service, unselfish sacrifice for truth, gracious loving ways, kindly deeds. Then, too, let us remember the divine way of gift giving. Let us remember that the Master's gift of life eternal is held in trust for all of the children of men. We accept it little by little, day by day, as we learn to walk in the path that He has marked out, as we come to follow the light that He holds high for our guidance. We can do this more readily if we read His words often and cherish the promises He has given us. Every service we perform in preparing to receive His gift brings its immediate reward in increased joy and spiritual growth. As we prepare by wholesome living to receive God's gift of eternal A GIFT FOR HIM life, our very preparation is providing our gift for Him. For surely our gift to the Master is our life, with all of its joy and gladness, its success and achievement, its virtue and wholesome sweetness. As our lives are made richer and more abundant through obedience to His laws, our gift to the Master becomes more precious, for our salvation is His glory. His blessings are awaiting us every day of every year if we will open our hearts to receive them. But if we remember Him only on occasions, how can we hope to grow toward the ideal He has set for us; how can we hope to become more like Him day by day? Is it not advisable for us to so live that we may walk in His —— 825 holy unseen presence, not only on Christmas Day, but on every day? Is it not wise to so live that we may invite Him to become an ever-present guest under our humble roof? Let us try to make our high moments of devotion more permanent -and enduring.