Vol. 28 DECEMBER, 1941 No. 12 EDITORIAL She Spirit Of Christmas ABOUT sixteen hundred years ago, according to legend, there lived in Asia Minor a man named Nicholas, who in the course of time became Bishop of Myra. He was a rich and generous man who loved humanity and delighted in making everyone happy, but he preferred that his beneficences remain a secret. It was his practice to make gifts to the poor by throwing toys and various articles through peoples' windows or by leaving money and food at their doors at night. He was so thoughtful of children that he was referred to as the guardian of children. Their joy as recipients of his favors was his greatest happiness. For a long time his identity remained a secret, but at length he was discovered dressed in his splendid bishop's robes of red trimmedin ermine, carrying a sack of gifts on his back. As the years passed, various legends grew up about him until he was credited with performing. Miracles. His story spread from country to country, and so popular did this character become that at length December 6, the date of his death, was set apart in honor of Saint Nicholas. Gradually, December 6 being so near December 25, the custom of observing St. Nicholas Day was absorbed into the Christmas festival, and the name Saint Nicholas was corrupted to Santa Claus. For hundreds of years this gay and popular character has lived in the hearts of men as the symbol of Christmas. The spirit exemplified by him is the spirit of Christmas. The Christmas spirit is an intangible force that takes hold of men and fills them with love and good will. It is the spirit which makes the Christmas season the gladdest time of all the year. It is not the gifts, 'costly or otherwise, that we receive that make Christmas dear to us. It is not what we spend or give that causes us to relive again and again the Christmases that are past and to look forward in joyous anticipation to the Christmas ahead. Instead, it is this vague something known as the Christmas spirit. The Christmas spirit is available to everyone alike. It is some Page 833 834 thing which no amount of money can buy. It may reign triumphantly in the humblest home, while the home of the wealthy may be desolate because of its absence. Its purchase price is love and good will, struggle and sacrifice, unity of interests and willingness to share. Last Christmas Day my Christmas visits took me to homes where visible expressions of the day were sharply contrasted. I visited homes where luxuriant and costly gifts were everywhere in evidence. I visited homes where gifts were both simple and scarce. The happiest home visited was that of a widowed mother with two little boys about ten and twelve years of age. The children, proud and excited over their gift of a crosscut saw, told how many logs they had gathered prior to Christmas in anticipation of the gift. They told how much wood they could saw and cut during the holidays. They explained how the coming winter would not find the family cold or Mother worried about fuel. The mother radiated happiness, not superficial, momentary enjoyment, but a deep and grateful happiness. A Christmas tree stood in the corner of the room, and a warm fire burned in an open grate?special Christmas extravagances, I'm sure?but the real warmth in that home was the warmth of love and unity of. Interests. This little family had captured the Christmas spirit. As we review our own Christmases of the past, it is not the detail of any gift that remains dear to us; 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1941

 it is not whether we had more or less than friend or neighbor that remains important. Rather, it is the feelings that surged within us?the eagerness of planning, the joy of united effort, the gladness of expectancy, the thrill of plans realized, the happiness of association with friends and loved ones. It is not the things that came easy to us that we cherish as of greatest worth, but those things for which we sacrificed and struggled. It is the spirit of Christmas that remains with us as the most real thing connected with the day, and it is this we would enjoy again and again. Parents would do well to keep this in mind as they prepare for this 1941 Christmas. Rather than straining ourselves to the breaking point that every want of our children may be gratified and that they may have as much or more than friend or neighbor, leaving us spent in every way, why not center our efforts upon intensifying the spirit of Christmas in our homes? It is the Christmas spirit which makes Christmas something of more than transitory value. It develops character; it unites families; it promotes good will; it binds people together in bonds of love and friendship. These are things worth striving for. The spirit of Christmas, as symbolized by Saint Nicholas, has for generations been making the world a better place in which to live. It is the Spirit of the Master alive in the hearts of men.