Music resembles poetry; in each Are nameless graces which no methods teach, And which a master-hand alone can reach. To err is human, to forgive divine. Other distinctions, briefer than those made by Hazlitt, have been made between wit and humor: "Wit is rapid; humor is slow. Wit is ' sharp; humor is gentle." Carolyn Wells thinks that the chief difference between wit and humor is that "wit is subjective, and humor objective. Wit is the invention of the mind of its creator; humor lies in the object that he observes. Wit originates in one's self; humor originates outside one's self. Wit is art; humor is nature." Professor Freud in his Wit and Its Relation to the Unconscious discusses two kinds of wit. The first he calls "harmless wit"?that which is enjoyed for its own sake, which manipulates words and thoughts for the mere pleasure of the manipulation, and serves no purpose beyond itself. An ambitious poet once sent Eugene Field a poem to read, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1941

 entitled, "Why Do I Live?" Field immediately sent a letter back to him, saying, "Because you sent your poem by mail." Another example of the same type of wit is found in Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes' reply to a friend who asked what one might do to insure long life. "Get an incurable disease," the doctor, known for his wit, replied, explaining later that people with incurable diseases take excellent care of themselves and so live a long time. The second, or "tendency wit," according to Freud, uses the same technique and produces similar pleasure, but it is hostile in purpose and is aimed at some person or persons. Some of the satires previously mentioned, particularly those of Pope and Swift, would be classed as "tendency wit," not humor. In the "Dunciad," Pope writes scathingly of people who pretend to be his friends, but who are friendly only for the advantages they themselves may gain from the friendship. He says: There are those who to my person pay their court: I cough like Horace, and though lean am short; Ammon's great son one should had too high, Such Ovid's nose, and, "Sir! You have an eye 2? Go on, obliging creatures! Make me see All, that disgraced, my betters met in me. Say for my comfort languishing in bed, "Just so immortal Maro held his head." And when I die, be sure you let me know Great Homer died three thousand years. Ago. (Horace and Ovid, referred to in this verse, are great Roman poets; Ammon's son is Alexander the Great; Maro is Virgil, the great Roman poet and author of the "Aeneid." ) People who knew Pope LESSON DEPARTMENT was writing the "Dunciad" dreaded its publication and tried to stop it. He wrote: Yes, I am proud; I must be proud to see Men, not afraid of God, afraid of me. After all, just where the distinctive line between types of literature lies is relatively unimportant. The important points are that we have the literature to enjoy and that we enjoy it. Lengthy and scholarly discussions have been held upon theories of laughter and the relation of laughter to humor. But such discussions are beside the purpose of these lessons. The purpose of these lessons is to help us to become acquainted with that part of literature which amuses us, and to give us a sense of the value of humorous writings and of the laughter they produce in our everyday lives. Humor and the Incongruities of Life Previous lessons have pointed out the relationship between incongruities?the incongruities in words, in facts and ideas, in situations and in character?and humor. Will Rogers, who generously contributed in his own unique manner to the laughter of the world, understood what is meant by humor which rests upon life in its broadest dimensions. In a radio talk in celebration of the Silver Jubilee of the King and Queen of England, but a few months prior to the tragic death of the humorist, which came as a shock to "the millions to whom his name seemed that of a merry companion," Will Rogers said: We (Americans and Englishmen) both have manners and customs that drive each other pretty near crazy: an American with 865 a mouthful of chewing gum can get on your (Englishmen's) nerves almost as much as an Englishman with only one eye full of a monocle can get on ours. But after all, neither commodity has contributed to the success the nations have made. We will never have trouble with each other, England, you or us. We both have humor. If we started to fight, we would have to stop in the middle and start laughing at each other. I don't know... You are naturally funny to us, and we are like a Mickey Mouse cartoon to you! The natural "funniness" to which Will Rogers refers is the incongruous in humanity at large which excites both humor and pathos in the minds and the hearts of the artists with vision broad and keen and sympathetic enough to see and feel it. They discover what the contrasts are between what we are and what we might be, and just as the humor aroused by a swollen nose or a crushed hat lies in the comparison of the swollen nose with the nose when it was normal and the crushed hat with the hat before it was mutilated, so there is a humorous response to the discrepancy between man undeveloped, imperfect, and man the ideal. If mothers could fully appreciate this phase of humor, they might often see humor instead of tragedy in shortcomings of their children, and laugh instead of weep over things which really do not matter in the run of things, but which seem so terribly important at the moment. Stephen Leacock says the incongruity of life lies in the comparison between "the petty cares of today and the nothingness into which they fade tomorrow?the fever and fret of life and the final calm of death." In this light, he says that "humor in its highest reach touches the sublime; humor in its highest reach mingles 866 with pathos: it voices sorrow for our human lot and the reconciliation with it." He calls this the humor of sublimity. To illustrate it, he recalls a cartoon in an old American paper. It is a picture of two ragged little boys in a garret, "thin little boys, so thin the pencil outline will scarcely draw them. To the one lying in the makeshift bed the other is reading a newspaper account of the luxury-dogs of the New York dog show just happening. He reads: 'Fido, after he has his evening lamb chop, is always wrapped in a warm ermine coat with a blue and silver belt around it.' 'Some dogs,' says the other little boy, 'is luckier than others.' " Leacock comments: "No diatribe against poverty; just the little sickly faces, and the changed end of the child's sentence as he instinctively uttered it." There is certainly more of tears than laughter in the illustration, but Leacock goes on to point out that such is the broad and beautiful humor in life recorded in such books as Goodbye, Mr. Chips and Mrs. Miniver, and in the stories of Dickens, Twain, and O. Henry. He calls the artistic power to produce such humor "divine retrospect." Dickens shows it when he presents frauds and swindlers and almost makes them lovable, and when he presents villains, such as Squeers, and extracts humor from them. O. Henry exhibited this type of humor in such stories as "The Pendulum"?the story of a young couple who live a drab life in a little apartment. Every evening at 8:15, John reaches for his hat, and his Were asks questioningly, "Now, where are you going, I'd like to know, John Per

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1941

 kins?" To which John invariably replies, "I thought I'd drop up to McCloskey's and play a game of pool with the fellows." But one night Katy is not there. She has left his supper ready and a note explaining that she has been called to her sick mother. Suddenly John is stricken with contrition. Never before in their -married life has she been away. He is overwhelmed with loneliness, and wonders how he could have left her alone each night. He resolves to make amends when she returns; his great effort will be to make her happy. At that moment, Katy, who has been called away on a false alarm, returns. John looks at the clock. It is 8:15. He reaches for his hat and walks to the door, as she, in her customary querulous voice, begins, "Now, where are you going, I'd like to know, John Perkins?" And he, giving the old answer, joo the room. "The Gift of the Magi" is another of O. Henry's stories of this type. Mark Twain reaches this highest type of humor, as has already been mentioned, in Huckleberry Finn. Nigger Jim, who "embodies the docility and the forgiveness of the negro race, and little Huck are wonderful characters, and this book is a searching indictment of our civilization. But it is robbed of anger." It is the humor of mingled tears and laughter; it is humor and sublimity. Thackeray says: "The humorous writer professes to awaken and direct your love, your pity, your kindness, your scorn for untruth, pretension, imposture, your tenderness for the weak, the poor, the oppressed, the unhappy." LESSON DEPARTMENT Problems and Projects 1. Bring short excerpts from literature to illustrate the difference between wit and humor. 2. Describe the difference between a "witty person" and a "humorous person." Which is best loved by friends and companions? Why? 3. Comment on Goodbye Mr. Chips by Hilton, stressing the points which reveal its humor to be that of the highest type, discussed in this lesson. 4. Relate incidents, experienced or observed, which embody "humor and sublim- 867 ity" (pioneer experiences give a rich source). 5. Discuss how this lesson should help to broaden our views of life and deepen our human sympathies. Supplementary Reading List The Caliph of Bagdad (Biography of O. Henry). Stories of O. Henry Masson, Our American Humorists. Masson, Humorous Masterpieces. Hilton, Goodbye Mr. Chips. Opie Read, Mark Twain and I. Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 5 Rights Versus Responsibilities In The Home (Tuesday, March 31, 1942) Lesson Aim: To develop the thought that with every right goes a responsibility, and that it is only through the acceptance of responsibilities in the home that marriage is made successful and eternal progression is made possible. A SUCCESSFUL marriage is not only an art, but it is a job as well. Those who would find supreme and lasting happiness in their marital relationships must not only prepare well before inarriage, plan for and experience a good beginning, and lear the art of mutual enrichment, but they must also