missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 6 SCHOOL THY FEELINGS, O MY BROTHER (Tuesday, March 24, 1942) School thy feelings, O my brother, Train thy warm, impulsive soul; Do not its emotions smother, But let wisdom's voice control. School thy feelings, there is power In the cool, collected mind; Passion shatters reason's tower, Makes the clearest vision blind. School thy feelings; condemnation Never pass on friend or foe, Though the tide of accusation Like a flood of truth may flow. Hear defense before deciding And a ray of light may gleam, Showing thee what filth is hiding Underneath the shallow stream. Should affliction's acrid vial Burst o'er thy unsheltered head, School thy feelings to the trial, Half its bitterness hath fled. Art thou falsely, basely slandered? Does the world begin to frown? Gauge thy wrath by wisdom's standard, Keep thy rising anger down. Rest thyself on this assurance: Time's a friend of innocence. And the patient, calm endurance Wins respect and aids defense. Quiv'ring strings a breath can move, And the Gospel's sweet revealings, Tune them with the key of love. Hearts so sensitively moulded, Strongly fortified should be, Trained to firmness and enfolded In a calm tranquility. Wound not wilfully another; Conquer haste with reason's might; School thy feelings, sister, brother, Train them in the HARLES W. PENROSE, the author of this poem, was born in London, England, February 4, 1832. He had little schooling, but his naturally alert mind and retentive memory enabled him to pick up a good education from reading and observation. Fond of the Bible from his earliest years, he was thus prepared to receive the Restored Gospel by the time he was eighteen. It appealed to him as scriptural, reasonable, and substantial. This was the way he expressed it in later years. Almost as soon as he was baptized, he received the Priesthood and was sent ona mission. In Essex Cou he "raised up" several branches of the Church. His relatives and friends tried to persuade him not to have anything to do with the new Church, but he was guided by what he, not they, thought in the situation. He was the only one of his father's house to embrace Mormonpath of right. ?Charles W. Penrose. Ism. When he left home to fulfill this mission, he did not have a penny in his pocket. In the year 1861, after more than ten years of gratuitous and successful missionary service, he was released from his labors and emigrated to America. Meantime, he married. He wrote tracts and articles for the Millennial Star, as well as poems which were later set to music. In Utah, he made his first home in Farmington and did physical work, for which he was unfitted both by inclination and experience. Here he acquired a small home, teaching school during the winter. In 1864 he moved to Cache Valley, where he engaged in business. The following year, however, he was called on a mission to Great Britain, crossing the plains with a mule team for the second time. On his return home from this mission, he lived in Logan, Utah, becoming secretary to the cooperative institution there. 872 Noblest minds have finest feelings, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1941

: LESSON DEPARTMENT It was not until 1870, when he was thirty-eight years old, that he found his proper vocation. In that year he was asked to become editor of The Junction, in Ogden. For this he was not only adapted, but experienced. He did not remain in this position long, however, for President Brigham Young soon called him to the editorship of the Deseret News, in Salt Lake City. As editor of this daily newspaper, he became widely known for his defense of his people. Meantime he served in various capacities in the Church and the Territory?his name was on the missionary list; he served in the High Council, and in the legislature. In July, 1904, at the age of seventy-two, Charles W. Penrose was called to the apostleship. Seven. Years later, when he was in his eightieth year, he became second counselor to President Joseph F. Smith in the First Presidency of the Church. In March, 1921, he was advanced to first counselor. WHILE President Penrose is best remembered for his Church activities?writing in defense of his people and preaching vigorously?he will perhaps be remembered longest for his songs. For he was the author not only of the song we are now considering, but also of, "O Ye Mountains High," "Up, Awake, Ye Defenders of Zion," and six other selections included in our present hymn _ book. Strictly speaking, "School Thy Feelings" is not a hymn, but a poem set to music. President Penrose says himself: "This hymn was not intended for singing; it was written for myself, about 1860, when I was in 873 Birmingham, England, before I emigrated. "I had been insidiously accused, not openly, but certain things had been said about me and my presidency of the Birmingham conference, and particularly in relation to my family affairs and possessions.... Weltering under these feelings, I sat down and wrote that little poem right from my soul, and intended it for myself. "After I had got it written, my folks thought it ought to appear in the Millennial Star. So I sent it up to the Star, and it was published. It was not set to any tune; I did not think about it being sung; in fact, I did not intend it for anybody but myself. However, I found it was quite applicable to others who had passed through similar experiences, and I thought it would be comforting to them. I was very pleased to know that it was a great comfort to President Brigham Young when he was under arrest. He later told me that he had it read to him several times when he had a deputy marshal guarding him in his house." Was Charles W. Penrose, when he composed this poem, actuated by that passage in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, given under somewhat similar circumstances of slander and persecution? Joseph was in prison, in Liberty, Missouri, whither he had been taken by his persecutors, and there the Lord said to him: "If thou art called to pass through tribulation; if thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art accused with all manner of false accusations; if thine enemies fall upon thee;... If thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death 874 passed upon thee;... If the heavens gather blackness, and all the elements combine to hedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of hell gape open the mouth wide after thee?know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good." (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 122, verses 5 to 9) The poem, "School Thy Feelings, O My Brother," aims to teach the idea of personal control. It is human nature to resent slander. But is that the best way out of the situation? President Penrose thought not. The best answer to the ill words of others is self-control ? "school thy feelings." The progress of the theme of the poem is logical and natural. First, there is the simple admonition to exercise wisdom when a surge of feelings arise in such a situation as that experienced by the poet. Second, we are shown that "there is power in the cool, collected mind," power that "shatters" passion. "Never pass condemnation" on another, for one may not understand, and, anyway, it does no good. That is what, the third stanza says. The fourth stanza says: "Hear defense before deciding." Few persons take the time to consider that there are always two sides to every question ?their side and the other person's side. If time be taken, says the fifth stanza, the temper will cool down, and only half the bitterness will be felt. "Time heals all wounds," says an old adage, and this applies to situations that arouse wrath. The sixth stanza is a virtual repetition of the first. But the repetition is needed, though it is expressed in different words: "Keep thy rising 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1941

 anger down." In the seventh stanza we get a new aspect. There is assurance in the fact that "patient, calm endurance" in one who is slandered "wins respect and aids defense"?if defense be needed at all. This is very true, as many can testify. Who are those who are best able to control their emotions? Strangely enough, as the eighth stanza virtually states, it is those who have the most sensitive feelings, but who are "noblest." Those who are "sensitively moulded," however, must be "strongly fortified" and "trained to firmness." That is the substance of stanza nine. In the tenth stanza the thought is carried on into another phase?possible slander of others by him who is trying to control his feelings under pressure: "Wound not wilfully another." To keep from doing this is as difficult as to control one's feelings when "wounded" by someone else. The poem ends where it begins?"school thy feelings." Questions 1. What were the circumstances under which this poem was written? Have you ever had anything like that happen to you? What did you do about it? Was that the best thing to do in the situation as you look back upon it? 2. In your fife now, whatever it may be, are there any situations in which you should exercise self-control, such as is suggested in the poem? Do you have difficulty in controlling your feelings, or is it an easy matter with you? 3. Who was Charles W. Penrose? State the various things that he did and the positions which he held. What one thing could he do best?. For what will he most likely be remembered by most members of our Church? 4. Which one of the stanzas of, "School Thy Feelings, O My Brother," do you like best? Suppose you memorize it, with such others as may appeal to you. "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!" There are LIFETIME VALUES in a Business Education The WINTER TERM begins January 4. Make your reservations EARLY. Pa ese BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah Information gladly furnished on request REDDY KILOWATT Pownr Serving 90% of the nation, is speeding up national defense. Reddy Kilowatt Power ? the world's finest electric service?is produced by American business men?and serves 90% of the nation. In this territory, especially, much Reddy Kilowatt power is being used by military projects and national defense industries. These demands for additional electricity have been met?without inconvenience to any of our customers. UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Index to Advonrtisors Deseret Book Company Fisher Baking Company L. D. S. Business College Larkin Mortuaries Utah Power & Light Company Outside Back Cover Inside Back Cover Inside Back Cover Outside Back Cover Inside Back Cover Hh A PLEASING VARIETY Se ee Fishon! Delicious DUTCH BREAD A PRODUCT OF THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine CHET HEADQUARTERS MAhE THIS STORE YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING CENTER In addition to having the largest and most complete stock of books in the Intermountain West, we have a marvelous selection of gift articles of every description, including games, greeting cards, fountain pens, stationery, electric clocks, radios, typewriters, book ends, pottery, and chrome, glass, leather, copper and brass ware. Also Bell & Howell Moving Picture cameras, screens, and supplies?and a "thousand and one" other gift items. Come bere first?you may not need to go elsewhere! DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah "Glory to God in the highest, and: on earth peace, good will toward' men." Luke 2:14. 9 LARKIN MORTUARIES Ogden, Utah Los Angeles, California 466 24th St.