Fashions Of Yesterday FASHIONS in dress have challenged the interest of women of all eras. Just as women of today are intrigued by the pages of Vogue and Mademoiselle, so the women of Grandmother's day were held by the beautiful tinted plates in Godey's Lady's Book. What is worn today, what may be worn tomorrow, what was worn yesterday, have ever been important to women. Dame Fashion is a ruler to whom women have paid court for generations, and whose dictates have been followed whether they have enhanced charm or actually destroyed natural beauty and been a burden. At her command her votaries have melted under fur boas in the hot days of summer, and frozen with bare necks, thin dresses, and gossamer hose in January. Then, such has been her caprice that no sooner has a fashion become general, than, irrespective of its merits or beauties, it has been changed for one which perhaps had nothing to recommend it but its novelty. The fashion of an era, however, is in a measure an index to the spirit and character of that era, just as the particular dress worn reveals, more or less, the personality of the wearer. That the fashions of the past one hundred years will figure prominently in Relief Society centennial programs there is no doubt. The full skirts worn in 1842 over petticoats of crinoline with bodices made with rounded points and elaborately trimmed with sautache braid, will vie for favor with panniers and bustles of 1876-86, with balloon sleeves and bell skirts of 1896-1906, and with the ultra-smart modern-day dress. Dainty curls and dignified braids will, in all probability, compete for popularity with the carefully-waved hair of the lady of today. While the long and dusty trek across the plains, and the burning sun and isolation of the desert decreed for a time that our pioneer women should wear sunbonnets and calico dresses, we must not forget that the wardrobe of our early-day women included many a fashionable silk dress which, brought across the plains, was carefully cared for and on special occasions brought out to adorn milady. While Mormon women have always sensed the importance of being attractively and appropriately dressed, yet they have always stood for modesty and economy in dress; in bygone days when fashions became extreme and extravagant, they stood firmly for retrenchment. To see the costumes of the past in review at our centennial programs will be a high point of interest. In order to acquaint Relief Society women with some of the styles worn in the past, the Magazine is publishing the illustrations on the following pages. Early-day fashion notes will also appear in next month's issue of the Magazine. Page 829 Stew, ataees 9 Shere.