EVAN JENSEN WOMEN'S FASHIONS—1830 TO 1860 EVAN JENSEN WOMEN'S FASHIONS—1850 TO 1880 HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon Beyond price is love and kindness; the cost is nothing and the law of the Lord is fulfilled. AGAIN we approach the end of the year and look forward to the cheer and gladness of the usual festivities. Though shadowed by the catastrophe of a war-torn world, we in America have the greatest opportunity ever given a nation to bestow happiness. In reality, Christmas time belongs to children. Let's all be children, forget the tragedies just for a day and believe in Santa Claus. MADAM LIN YUTANG, noted author and now a prominent member of the international set in New York, is lecturing in America on, "Women in the New China." Besides being the wife of a writer, Madam Lin is also the mother of three authors, Adet, Anor, and Mei Mei Lin. ELOISE DAVISON, editor of Home Institute for the New York Herald Tribune, has been "lent" to the Government to be assistant director to Mayor La Guardia in the office of Civilian Defense. PRINCESS JULIANA of the Netherlands and her daughters Beatrice and Irene are rather frequent guests of the Roosevelts at Hyde Park, New York. ELEANOR FORDHAM, Utah aviatrix, only non-college girl to receive a flight scholarship in Utah under civilian pilot. Training, has been awarded her pilot's license. She is planning a women's auxiliary flying unit in Utah to replace men pilots for war service. Page 832 HANNAH M. ALDRICH, of Mt. Pleasant, 101 years old, Harriet L. Leavitt, 97, and Ann C. Milne, 93, of Salt Lake, all pioneer mothers, were recently feted on their birthdays. Each one retains wonderful vitality and optimism. Never too old to learn, Mrs. L. E. Coombs is beginning to typewrite at 91. MRWS. ALAN H. Means of Salt Lake City was: elected national president of the Girl Scouts of America at the convention held this fall at Dallas, Texas. This is a signal honor to Utah as well as a deserved and eloquent tribute to the ability and personality of Mrs. Means. There were 979 delegates present, representing a membership of over 600,000 girls. Mrs. Means succeeds Mrs. Herbert Hoover in this high office. MARTHA E. MOSES, 96 years old, a pioneer school teacher, died recently. For the past 80 years she had resided in the same locality and had been known to all her neighbors as "Aunt Martha." Another notable Utah pioneer mother who recently died was Ida F. W. McArthur of St. George. Both of these women were active members of the Relief Society. ELEANOR DARK'S latest book, The Timeless Land, was the book of the month for October. Pray For A Tomorrow is a beautiful story of Andrew, the fisher boy, by Anne Parrish.  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Marianne C. Sharp Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Gertrude R. Garff Priscilla L. Evans Leona F. Wintch Florence J. Madsen = - Belle S. Spafford Amy Brown Lyman