The Relief Society Magazine
THE COVER
"Peace on Earth, Good Will Toward Men"
NEARLY 2,000 years ago, according to Sacred Writ, there were "shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shown round about them... And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold I bring you good tidings of great joy.... For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Savior, which is Christ the Lord.... And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God and saying, 'Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men.' "
Peace on earth, good will toward men was the message of Christ as he "went about throughout the cities and the villages, preaching and shewing glad tidings of the Kingdom of God."
Peace on earth, good will toward men, is the message accepted by men and women all over the globe who acclaim their faith in Christ.
Peace on earth, good will toward men is the Christmas message?the message of hope and cheer.
Peace on earth, good will toward men is the most needed and most universally desired blessing this 1941 Christmas season. May it soon find place in the hearts of men everywhere, not for just a day, but for every day. Then will lives be mellowed, conduct tempered, and humanity become exalted. Then will war cease and harmony exist in human relations. Then will mutual concord and amity prevail. Then will men live in happiness and security, and the God of love and peace will be with them.
The cover for this issue of the Magazine was designed and drawn by Evan Jensen.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 28 DECEMBER, 1941 No. 12
Contents
Special Features
To All Church Members—The First Presidency—Back of Flyleaf
Let Peace Prevail Elizabeth Hill 801
Frontispiece—Christmas Table, Charles R. Savage Home 802
Christmas Memories Luacine Savage Clark 803
The Carols of Christmastide George D. Pyper 807
Oscar A. Kirkham—Leader of Youth, Inspirer of Man Marba C. Josephson 811
Two Significant Days Anna Boss Hart 814
A Gift For Him Lella Marler Hoggan 824
Fashions of Yesterday 829
Home Life—A Social Science Dr. Harold T. Christensen 840
The Church Welfare Program for 1942 Marion G. Romney 842
The Spirit Giveth Life Priscilla L. Evans 845
"Highway for Americans" Bernard C. Shoenfeld 847
Fiction
A Half Hour of Christmas Mabel Harmer 817
As Little Children Olive W. Burt 826
The Merry-Go-Round—Chapter Nine Alice Morrey Bailey 852
General Features
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 832
Editorial:
The Spirit of Christmas 833
Notes to the Field:
Award Winners—Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest 835
Award Winners—Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest 836
Special Feature for Magazine—1942 837
Relief Society Receives Valuable Books from Mrs. Clara Tate Reed 837
Ora W. Chipman, Hazel Brockbank Elected to Office 838
Dates for Presentation of March Lessons 838
Women Advised Regarding Sewing Machine Repairmen
New Cantata by Gladys Rich, Minnie D. Warmer 839
Home Accident Prevention—No. III
Lessons
Theology and Testimony—Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, Chapter 6 858
Visiting Teachers'—Service as an Expression of Faith 860
Work-and-Business—Hosiery 861
Literature—Humor in its Highest Form
Social Science—Rights Versus Responsibilities in the Home 867
Mission—School Thy Feelings, O My Brother 871
Poetry
Let Peace Prevail Elizabeth Hill 801
The First Snow Fall James Russell Lowell 806
Dott Sartori 810
A Morning Prayer Rachel Barney Taft 823
A Shawl For Baby Caroline Eyring Miner 828
The Master Hand Ida R. Alldredge 839
My Winter Emily Platts Smith 841
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 248.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once. Giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

o All Chueh Th cmabens Employment in defense work, service in the army, and attendance at institutions of learning are now taking very many of our young people away from their homes. The spiritual welfare and physical safety and health of all young people are always greatly promoted by their making themselves acquainted. With the Bishopric or Branch Presidency of the place in which they are living and by their keeping in close touch with these officers. In too many cases the parents and the Ward Bishoprics appear to fail to advise these young people to associate themselves promptly and actively with the Ward or Branch in the place to which they go or to which they are sent. Too frequently where this has not been done, the young people have had experiences and have fallen into habits which they regret during the remainder of their lives. Young people of the Church should for their own ' protection, welfare, and happiness, as also for the happiness, relief from great anxiety, and satisfaction of their parents, identify themselves with the local Church organization in the place where they are resident and take part in Church activities. We therefore earnestly advise all parents to urge their sons and daughters who are so away from home, to get in touch with the Ward officers in the places where they live and to identify themselves with the Church and engage in its activities. We should like the Bishops of the Wards from which these young people go to add their counsel and advice to those of the parents of these young people that when they reach their new homes they get in touch with the local Church officers and engage in Church activities. In order to help the local Church officers, in the places to which they go, to get in touch with these young people and to bring them into Church activity, it would be most helpful if the parents would write to the Bishops of Wards or the Presidents of Branches to which the young people have removed, giving the names and addresses of their children who are there. Where parents do not know the names of the Bishops or Presidents of Branches to which their children have gone, they can secure them from the Bishop, who will be able to obtain them from the Church Directory. It would be well also for Bishops of Wards from which the young people come to make it a point to write to the new Bishop or President of Branch concerned regarding the same young people, giving such information concerning them as would be helpful to the new Bishop of the Ward or President of the Branch. Where it is not possible to know the exact Ward or Branch to which the young people have gone, but the Stake is known, then the name and address should be sent to the President of the Stake, who will forward it to the Bishop or Branch President concerned. If the Stake is not known (as it may not be in some of the larger cities), then the name and address of these young people should be sent to the Presiding Bishop's Office in Salt Lake City, which will in turn forward the information to the appropriate officers. We urge the Bishops of Wards and Presidents of Branches in the Wards and Branches to which young people go to use their utmost endeavors to interest the young people in Church work and to bring them into the activities. Of the Church. If the young people are going to places in which there are no Wards, Branches, or Stakes, then the course suggested above should be followed by informing the President of the Mission within which the young people are to reside. We cannot too strongly urge upon the attention both of parents and Ward and Branch officers the importance of the foregoing instructions. Heber J. Grant, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., David O. McKay, The First Presidency. oh et Peace Prevail O God, this Christmas Eve let peace prevail, Let love abound for all beneath Thy sky, Let hearts lift up hosannas to Thy name And weary souls have strength to live, not die. Oh, give us hope and faith to seek Thee out. Teach us how to find Thee. Bring us near. Let us know the wonder of Thy love, And may our hearts know naught of hate and fear. O God, this night we pause to seek afresh The path Thy Son trod. Guide us then aright, And may our faith, like lanterns in the dark, Lead us on to everlasting light. —Elizabeth Hill. DINING TABLE SET FOR CHRISTMAS DINNER IN CHARLES R. SAVAGE HOME The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28 DECEMBER, 1941 No. 1