Award Winners bliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three award winners in the 1941 Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest. 'This year the contest was announced in the June, 1941, issue of the Magazine and closed October 1, 1941. The first prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 818 Twenty-eighth Street, Ogden, Utah, for her poem, "Brave, Privileged Feet." The second prize of ten dollars is awarded to Vesta Pierce Crawford, 1067 East Fifth South Street, Salt Lake City, for her poem, "Spacious Century." The third prize of five dollars is awarded to Zella A. Johnson, Barnwell, Alberta, Canada, for her poem, "Centennial." The Relief Society General Board has conducted this memorial poem contest annually since 1923. It is held in honor of Eliza Roxey Snow, who was the second general president of the Relief Society and a very gifted poet. No definite subject has been recommended for the poems submitted until this year, when the Relief Society centennial was to be the theme of all poems submitted. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women and is planned to stimulate and encourage them to write poetry and to more deeply appreciate creative writing and the beauty and value of poetic verse. This year 89 poems were submitted on the subject of the Relief Society centennial. The poems revealed a deep appreciation for the Relief Socicty century and for the coming centennial observance, and poetic insight into the importance of such an occasion. It is the custom to announce the poems selected as prize winners in each contest in the January issue of the Magazine following the contest. This year, however, announcement is made in the December issue due to the fact that prize-winning poems are included in the new Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse which will be published before January. The General Board appreciates the interest shown in the contest and thanks all who have contributed to its success?the entrants for their splendid contributions, the three judges for their willing service and for the excellence of their judgment in selecting prize-winning poems, and the General Board committee for its contribution to the success of the contest. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs of the prize-winning contestants, will be published in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Page 835 836. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1941

 Award Winners Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of award winners in the short story contest which was announced in the June,.1941, issue of the Magazine and which closed October 1, 1941. The first prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, 256 Iowa Street, Salt Lake City, for her story "Wilderness." The second prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Mabel Harmer, 945 South Seventh East Street, Salt Lake City, for her story "Inheritance." The third prize of ten dollars is awarded to Vera Hinckley Mayhew, 1030 Keeler Avenue, Berkeley, California, for her story "Men Must Work." This short story contest was conducted by the Relief Society General Board as a feature of the centennial observance. The Society has always encouraged creative writing, reserving space each month in The Relief Society Magazine for the publication of fiction. The contest was open only to Latter-day Saint women who had had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by the editor of a publication of recognized merit. | Members of the General Board of Relief Society and those persons connected with the Relief Society office staff were not eligible to enter the contest. The tules of the contest specified that stories should not exceed 3,000 words in length and that the Relief Society centennial be used as the theme. Twenty-three stories were submitted, all of which were of unusual merit. 'They were characterized by accurate information on the history of Relief Society, unusual insight into its problems during the hundred years of its existence, and deep appreciation for its accomplishments. Excellent literary form also characterized the work submitted. Because of the general excellence of the stories, judging was difficult. To be selected as an award winner from a group whose work was so outstanding is distinct recognition. The General Board appreciates ? the interest evidenced in the contest, the high standard of work submitted, and the precision with which the rules of the contest were followed. The careful consideration given to the selection of award-winning stories by the five judges is also greatly appreciated. Stories, together with photographs of the award-winning contestants, will be published in coming issues of The Relief Society Magazine, as follows: "Wilderness," by Alice Morrey Bailey, January, 1942. "Inheritance," by Mabel Harmer, February, 1942. "Men Must Work," by Vera Hinckley Mayhew, March, 1942.