Two Significant Days Anna Boss Hart Relief Society General Board Member ONIGHT there are candles on T our table and a wreath of holly at each window. 'The oldfashioned tree is trimmed and lighted. The last gift has been carefully wrapped and placed under the tree. My thoughts turn to the two characters that we, as Latter-day Saints, are honoring this Christmas season. The fire in the fireplace radiates motion and warmth. The burning wood suggests life of the summer now past coming to light again. Thoughts should go to scenes in Palmyra, New York, at the time of the Eastern States Mission conference and spectacle pageant; to the spot where Joseph Smith radiated such influence and received so much inspiration. I am thinking of the divine strains of organ music which were heard as we followed the old fence to the gate entering the Sacred Grove. A profusion of trees and shrubs made the spot secluded and _ hallowed. Each tree that grew appeared to be conscious of the miracle of a morning more than a hundred years ago. Several hundred people gathered quietly and waited in reverent expectancy for the meeting. Presently we heard trumpeters in a distant part of the Grove playing "Oh, How Lovely Was the Morning." Then we all stood, and with more feeling than is usually experienced in song, we joined them. How we worshipped on that day! Our souls appeared to be cleansed. We were in Page 814 It isn't strange that my' harmony with nature and with God. I am sure that all thoughts were directed toward a divine visitation and our Prophet. At that moment we forgot the great city and the pressing work, headlines and international talk. The vision of divine things of deep peace filled our souls. Again I think of the experiences of this summer. Tonight, during the peace of this evening, I think of a breath-taking moment on Hill Cumorah. Just before the pageant commenced we were directed to the top of Hill Cumorah and allowed to look at a veritable sea of parked cars, the stages from the actor's side; we felt the peacefulness that comes from excellent preparation and the expectancy of heavenly experiences. Words are inadequate to express the feelings in our souls. Our time was limited—we had just a glimpse of the valley and the sky; just time enough for a prayer of deep appreciation for a sight so impressive, and a wish that the picture would always remain vividly in our memories. The peace of an inspirational experience merges, and so as I think of these nights of silence, when God was making greatness, I am impressed. Tonight, I listen to Christmas carols and stories over the radio. My soul is touched, and I, too, want to join in song. Christmas is a time when singing is genuine and when it finds receptive hearts everywhere. It is a time when all participants radiate good will and when peace is TWO SIGNIFICANT DAYS brought to our souls. A similar spirit was radiated by the group of missionaries who gathered on the stage after the mammoth spectacle pageant had been presented. The thousands of cars had gone. Some groups in the audience had left without exchanging comments; others had made a few enthusiastic expressions and then had walked slowly away. Many stood alone in contemplation of a great religious experience. A few remained to see what demonstration might be given by the young people who were slowly gathering on one of the stages. These young people, thrilled with the performance of the evening, gathered under the stars, and how they did sing! Angels singing could not have thrilled me more. N this Christmas Eve many similar experiences come to me. Now I watch the lights play on the Christmas tree. It isn't strange that I think of Jesus, the "Light of the World," and of the "light" that came to our Prophet in the Grove more than a hundred years ago—a light that gave radiance to a people in darkness. Tonight thoughts of two significant days bring me calm and peace. The first Christmas brought Him ~ who taught men those things which would lead them into an enlightened fellowship. Another birthday a little over a century ago brought another who taught fellowship among the people of a newlyorganized Church; a fellowship that carried people through persecutions, the journeys across the plains, and the hardships incidental to a settlement in the West. How thankful I am for the lives 815 of these two who have changed for good the lives of humankind. I appreciate more keenly than ever before the personalities that came to us on two significant days. What a span of time between the two; yet, how similar they were in their lives and missions! Palestine of old was the background of the wonder story of the birth of Christ. Palmyra was the background of the story of the birth of the Prophet of these latter days. Both persons were born in humble circumstances—one in a stable; the other in a humble cottage. One had the home atmosphere of a carpenter; the other that of a humble farmer. A world of confusion and contending creeds met each one. Both learned lessons of labor and self-denial early. The preparation of both for their missions was thorough. Both gave to individuals a faith in immortality. Their characters were "godly and their names unstained." Both taught the secret of lasting peace. Both had a faith that penetrated their souls, and prayer marked their progress in life. Both had a knowledge of truth in their souls. Both towered in their labors. We think of the Prophet Joseph Smith in the deep-breathing stillness of the woods. We think of Jesus by the still waters and in the undisturbed garden. While both the coming of Jesus to live on earth and the coming of the Prophet Joseph took place under very humble circumstances, the time of their coming appeared to be might for the establishment of heavenly truth. Tonight as I think of the Sacred Grove, it is stimulating to imagine the pillar of celestial light which appeared above Joseph Smith, and to 816 think of the feeling of sublimity that filled his soul. It is impressive to recall that he emerged from the uncertainty that was in his mind hayving received positive knowledge on the matter so near to him. The Savior and the Prophet both had eyes which appeared to read the hearts of men and women. Both recognized the faith that exists in men and women and their power and ability to serve the world. Both felt the peace that comes from communion with nature. Both felt the presence of God during peaceful hours. Then, later, both were accused of blasphemy. Jesus declared himself to be the Son of God. Joseph Smith claimed to be a prophet of God. By their own deaths, both "summed up and drove home to the hearts of men the message they had proclaimed in words." The death of the Prophet Joseph Smith was a significant martyrdom, following that of Jesus upon Calvary for the redemption of all mankind. O it is no wonder that we, as Latter-day Saints, are at peace in our souls this Christmas season. The great foundation stones of life and salvation are with us—those principles for which our Church stands and which make it unique. A glance at the gifts under the tree brings to me a throb of expectancy. I think of the priceless gifts that are mine—not the gifts under the tree, but the spiritual gifts that are mine forever. These lasting gifts are mine because of what 

 

 happened in a Sacred Grove more than a hundred years ago. These gifts are mine because of God's greatest gift—His Son—to the world. As I am aware of the significant objects that stand for that birthday so long ago—the Star of Bethlehem, the announcing bells, and the blazing fire keeping alive the sacred home and family traditions—I also am reminded again of the birthday of our Prophet. Just now I feel a deep pride in my heritage. I feel the stream of accomplishments since the passing of two significant days. I know that the world has changed since the Star shone over Bethlehem and the angels sang "Hosannah." The world has changed since the trees gave to our latter-day Prophet a feeling of security and the birds made music that almost bridged heaven and earth as he sought wisdom from the Father. I know that we are aware of the trampling underfoot of the principles that enlightened men cherish and know to be true and fundamental. Yet, in the remembrance of two days, peace and security and deeper faith come to my heart. And now as I look at the candles on the table and the wreath of holly at each window, the fireplace and beautifully decorated Christmas tree, significant of the birthday of our Savior, I again recall the eventful experience of Hill Cumorah. My heart is full, and I feel that life is good this Christmas season.