work?daily, and in the spirit of fair play. Marriage, like any other great enterprise, requires the sincere and responsible effort of those who would make it successful. Happiness is the reward of achievement, and achievement comes only through struggle. No Rights Without Responsibilities All that has been said in previous discussions about the importance of a proper attitude toward marriage applies to this lesson as well, for unless the married feel an attitude of individual responsibility in the adventure before them, they will exert little or no effort to make it successful, and the whole thing will likely collapse. There are too many people who enter marriage unprepared for the adjustments, sacrifices, and genuine work that it involves. There are many married people who act emotionally as children or adolescents, and who fail to assume the adult responsibilities demanded of them. They look at marriage in terms of rights rather than responsibilities, and therein lies the secret of their failure. Being emotionally imma- ture, they are quick to blame and to complain, but slow to cooperate or admit faults within themselves; they expect the other person to go three-fourths or all of the way. There are too many of these selfish individuals who are more willing to receive than to give Emotional immaturity has reference to a type of childishness frequently manifest in adult behavior. Sometimes it is referred to as "infantilism," for it makes people act much like babies. Chronological and biological maturity do not necessarily result in emotional maturity; sometimes people grow up physically without growing up psychologically; sometimes people have a lot of birthdays without ever learning to act like adults. Emotional immaturity shows itself in patterns of selfishness, jealousy, et cetera. Crying is often used as a weapon with which to injure the other person or to get one's own way. Sulking, pretending to be hurt, doing and saying little things to hurt the other person, are ways of showing oneself to be emotionally immature. They are also ways of destroying love and breaking up a happy home. Marriage, like life, is a game of cooperation, a process of give and take. He who tries to do all of the taking and none of the giving may get by for a while, but sooner or later he will find his marriage a failure. The love that is kindled in courtship may be either smothered in marriage or fanned into something that is eternal and glorious. Exploitation in courtship often carries over into marriage. The boy who will use and abuse his sweetheart for personal thrills will, as a husband, usually do the same thing, with little regard for the rights and personality needs of his wife; and the girl who is a thoughtless "gold digger" before marriage will usually be an expensive and irresponsible wife after the ceremony. But whether the pattern of exploitation showed itself in the period of courtship or not, its existence in marriage is a sign of marital decay. Students of the family recognize this problem when they speak of the "parasitic wife," whom they describe as a selfish and pampered woman who applies the "gold digging" philosophy to marriage, and who seeks all of the advantages without making any real or worth-while contribution to it.' She is called a parasite because she is selfish and fails to carry her share of the responsibility. Sometimes this selfishness shows itself in an unwillingness to have children, sometimes in excessive demands upon the husband's pocketbook, and sometimes in other ways; but always a wife of this kind is a parasite. And there are parasitic husbands as well. Whenever any person is unwilling to play the game or to do his part in life, he is a social parasite. How can persons 'such as these hope to make a success of marriage? If people could only be made to realize that there are no rights without responsibilities; if husbands and wives could be more willing to shoulder their full share of the responsibility, and if children were trained in this atmosphere; if love were based more on work and sacrifice and less on sex demands and lMabel A. Elliott and Frances E. Merrill, Social Disorganization, Harpers, New York, 1941 (rev. Ed.), page 624. 

 ?DECEMBER, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT infatuation; if people would look at marriage more as a challenging job and less as a selfish right?if all these things could be, the chances for successful marriage would be increased one thousand fold. And they can be done. The solution lies in the attitude and the courage of parents. Integrity and the Happy Home But the whole thing boils down to the fundamental qualities of character. The happy home is the home in which each member can be trusted and respected by each other member. The responsible person is the person who is true to the core, who will play the game fairly, who will not lie, nor cheat, nor run away. The responsible person is the person who has integrity. Good oldfashioned honesty is at the very heart of successful marriage. Too often people try to patch up marital difficulties through lies and compromises rather than getting at the roots that lie deep in the patterns of character. If persons in trouble are sincere in their desire to get out of trouble, they should be willing to indulge in a little self-analysis and self-criticism; they should be willing to "face the music" rather than to try to shift the blame; they should be honest and courageous. The Dignity of Work Closely tied up with the idea that assuming responsibility with courage and integrity is basic to successful marriage, is the idea that work is also essential. We have already pointed to this when we said that successful marriage is a job that needs to be tackled with earnestness. We need now to further emphasize 869 the fact that assuming responsibility involves effort as well as attitude. Too many men and women pray for easy lives; they not only pray, but they anxiously seek to avoid work and to escape all in life that is really challenging. There is too much "escapism" in the philosophy of the day; too much trying to get by with as little effort as possible. What is needed is a little more courage in facing the realities of life, a little more willingness to shoulder one's share, a little more perspiration in the labors of the day. The importance of this is clearly shown in the following quotation: The law of nature is, that a certain quantity of work is necessary to produce a certain quantity of good of any kind whatever. If you want knowledge, you must toil for it; if food you must toil for it; and if pleasure you must toil for it. ?Ruskin We might add to what Ruskin has said, that if you want the supreme joy that successful family life can bring, you must toil for it. 'Habits of either laziness or industry, whichever characterizes one's life in general, are sure to carry over into the relationships of family life. Women should realize more fully that there is no job so important or so challenging as successful wifehood and motherhood. Without this job well done civilization could not survive, and women are the only ones who can do it. Homemaking is woman's greatest career. But let no one think that her job in the home is an easy one; here she is the producer, the buyer, and the teacher, all at the same time; here she is able to make men possible and to make men good; to create and to inspire. The challenge of good home man- agement is great, and the dignity of successful homework is unexcelled. There is a dignity to work which makes people grow. Home tasks are every bit as important as those on the outside, and he who would make his home a happy one must be willing to perform these tasks honorably. Eternal Progression Through Successful Marriage Latter-day Saints are well aware of fundamental relationships between successful marriage and eternal progression. 'They see man climbing step by step throughout eternity, and they see celestial marriage as one of these steps. But Latter-day Saints also realize that both successful marriage and eternal progression require more than the performance of a ceremony and the making of pledges, important as these are. They require work as well; they require the sincere and honest efforts of men and women. If successful marriage depends upon responsibility and integrity and effort, as we have tried to show above, eternal progression does also. Marriage is so much a part of life in general that it is impossible to separate one from the other. He who is willing to face squarely the responsibilities and the jobs of married life will not only make his marriage successful, but by so doing will be climbing the ladder of eternal progression. Struggle makes men grow, and growth makes men happy. The law of eternal progression is the law of struggle and achievement. Man progresses through activity; he retrogresses through inactivity. Sometimes the struggles of life seem almost too much to bear, but the one who has the courage to face them with his head up is the one who is able to someday experience the real joy of achievement. The thrill of victory, the satisfaction that comes from accomplishment, the pleasure of seeing a job well done, the joy of achievement?these are the things that count in life. The deeper joys of man spring out of the struggles he has been able to endure and master in his upward progress. We have been saying continually that successful marriage is happy marriage; and as we have moved through this series of lessons, we have attempted to make a number of suggestions for making happiness in marriage possible.. Now we are saying that genuine happiness or joy comes through achievement or progression. 'The foundations for successful marriage laid during childhood, courtship, and early marriage are extremely important, but unless married mates are willing and able to "carry on" to the end, their union may still fail in spite of these earlier foundations. If married partners could live a little more honestly, responsibly, and industriously, they could live much more happily. Problems and Projects 1. What does it mean to say that successful marriage is a job as well as an art? Give examples of exploitation in marriage. Show why selfish husbands and wives can rightly be called social parasites. Why should a responsibility go with every right? 2. How is integrity tied up with responsibility? Can a dishonest person be respected? Can he be loved? How does the spirit of self-criticism help to make marriage successful? Give illustrations. 3. Do you feel that people today are any less willing to accept difficult tasks than formerly? Why or why not? Do you agree that one job is as dignified as another as long as they are both honorable? 

 ?DECEMBER, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT How does the tendency to escape from work carry over into marriage and endanger its chances for success? Illustrate if you can. 4. In what way or ways is successful marriage a part of eternal progression? What parts do attitude and effort play in them both? Do you agree that the joy of progression or achievement is the highest type of joy?: References ? Baber, Ray E., Marriage and the Family, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1939, pp. 286- 88. Burkhart, Roy A., From Friendship to Marriage, Harper and Brothers, New York, 1937, PP- 113-137. Elliott, Mabel A., and Merrill, Francis 871 _E., Social Disorganization, Harpers, New York, 1934, 1941 (revised edition), passim. Groves, Ernest R., Marriage, Henry Holt 'and Co., New York, 1933, pp. 270-288 and passim. Hart, Hornell, Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., New York, 1935, pp. 210-228 and passim. Jung, Moses, Modern Marriage, F. S. Crofts and Co., New York, 1940, pp. 308- 321. Marston, W. M., "Problems In Living," Forum, March, 1938, pp. 150-152; November, 1938, pp. 228-229. Young, Kimball, Personality and Problems of Adjustment, F. S. Crofts and Co., New York, 1940, pp. 350-368 and passim. ??