A Modern John Alden
Julia A. Farnsworth Lund

"What's that you say about Utah and New England institutions?"

"Of course, we preserved them. Why shouldn't we? Many of us were from New England, of her very best blood I would say; and we brought with us the highest of her ideals, and perpetuated and fully developed them here in the valleys of the mountains. To the Puritans and their descendants, Thanksgiving was the greatest holiday of the year—a time of joyous festivity, in which every one must share, as well as a time of devout gratitude to God for his boundless mercies and blessings. I really am inclined to believe that we approach nearer to a correct observance of this sacred day than we do to any of the other holidays. It hasn't the spirit of vandalism of Hallowe'en, nor the boisterousness of the Fourth, nor the extravagant perversion of the true spirit of giving which has gone far toward spoiling Christmas. But then, you know, I have a very special reason for being fond of Thanksgiving."

"Oh yes, tell it to us again, Grandpa; a life story such as yours is far more interesting than fiction."

"Well, this little story is real life, of the time when the great west was being colonized and Utah was young. Crossing the plains in the fifties and sixties was not what it is now; you know nothing about the great American Plains. You have to cross them with an ox team to really know them. Think of it! In two days and nights you fly across a space of country that used to take us nine long weeks to travel.

"How did I happen to come west so early? Well, it was just this way. For some time I had been discontented in my New England home. Kate and I had come to look at things kind of crosswise, which didn't make me more content with my lot, so I just decided to pick up and go clear out to the far west. It was pretty hard to leave, and perhaps if Kate had given me a little encouragement, I wouldn't have left when I did, but I guess some would say it was my destiny, or something. At any rate, one morning in early spring, I said goodbye to my old home and started on the long journey down the coast from Boston, clear across the Gulf of Mexico to New Orleans, then up the winding course of the 'Father of Waters' to what was then called 'Winter Quarters,' in Missouri. From this place travelers started on the trip across the plains.

"At frequent intervals, there were companies of emigrant trains, and it was never safe to attempt to cross the plains except A MODERN JOHN ALDEN 569 in company with these trains, so I had to wait a few days until one left.

"Though it was always a journey of privations, often of great hardships, yet there was much real enjoyment to be had out of it, too. If only I could have conquered my intense longing for my sweetheart, Kate, I think I could have had a right jolly time.

"The train I joined consisted of about seventy-five wagons and nearly seven hundred passengers, who were expected to walk the greater part of the time, unless, of course, they were too young or were sick. This, that I am telling you of our company applies to most of the trains of this period. It certainly was a novel sight to see the train start out on its long journey with everything that could be packed into the wagons and everything else tied on outside.

"The organization of the trains was very systematic and complete. The officers consisted of a captain who appointed two aides whose duty it was to look after the comfort of the passengers. There was also a chaplain, a quartermaster, a hospital steward, a camp guard who had to look out for suitable camping places and guard the possessions of the passengers and preserve good order, and the night guard who looked after the horses and stock belonging to the train.

"The passengers were called together by the bugle, and the chaplain conducted religious services night and morning. During our hours in camp, we indulged in many healthful sports which did much to break the monotony of the long trip.

"At this time, I was, undoubtedly, what the westerners called a 'tenderfoot,' but I was vain enough to think that this applied rather to my ignorance of the country and its way, than to my want of courage, or my power of endurance. On my first entry into this western world, with its deserts, and its mountains, I knew that I had found my home; that is, the place for a home, provided I could ever find a girl who could make me forget Kate.

"I took up land for a farm and soon had it cleared of sage brush. Each day the determination took deeper root and lightened the hardest work; I would make a comfortable home here, and then go and bring Kate to it, for I could not help thinking she cared for me. You know, we pioneers were all public spirited, and at the end of four years had built up quite a thriving little settlement.

"The day before Thanksgiving all the men of our town had assembled to put the roof on our school house, so that we could hold a real public celebration, when the word came that the Indians had attacked the home of an isolated family living out on 570 South Creek, about seven miles away. The Ute war was at this time being waged in some parts of our territory, but this was the first occasion of real alarm in our parts. The word was brought to us by a boy, who had been at work some distance from the house, when he caught sight of the approaching Indians. He crawled through the high sage brush until he reached the pasture where he succeeded in catching one of the ponies. Then without saddle or bridle, and with only a rope to guide the pony, he rode rapidly to our settlement and gave the alarm.

"Never did a party of men make greater haste than we did in going to the relief of the besieged family. We all secured our horses and took whatever weapon came handiest. Talk about your minute men! You should have seen us go for the Indians, armed with guns, spades, and pitchforks. I had my blunderbuss, a most formidable appearing weapon, but it had this slight fault, that it was far more likely to kick me over than to send a bullet into the object at which it was aimed. In this case, I trusted to appearances.

"The captain of our militia went up in his buggy and took the surgeon with him for we feared there might be wounds to dress. Not much can be said of our order of march, but we certainly advanced. My pony was a good one, so I was among the first to reach the scene of action. On seeing several horsemen approach, the Indians took fright and made a hasty retreat into the neighboring mountains where we were not prepared to follow them.

"All we knew of the people we had come to rescue was that they had recently moved into our territory, coming through the northeast, and had taken up land on South Creek. The one story house was built of green logs, but it had a lumber roof, which the Indians had attempted to set on fire. We were very happy to find that none of the family had been injured, but two Indians lay dead in front of the house.

"I happened to dismount near the window of the house, and as I looked in, the shock I received was much greater than the one occasioned by the prospect of an Indian fight. I wondered if I hadn't used my blunderbuss with the usual result, except that in this case, I had been 'kicked' clear into another state of existence; for without doubt, there stood Kate at the window, looking out with her sweet, scared eyes.

"I must have looked dazed myself, for I seemed to hear one of the boys say, 'What's the matter? There's no need to look so scared now. The Indians have all gone.'

"Then I heard a man's voice saying to our captain, "Thank you, very, very much for coming to our assistance. We made a good defense, but could not have held out much longer. I happened to see the Indians while they were at some little distance, so that gave us all time to take refuge in this room; all except my boy, Frank, who carried the word to you. We closed the door and window and as often as the savages tried to break in, I fired, so no doubt, I am responsible for the death of those two out there. My niece, Kate, loaded my pistol as I emptied the gun. Fortunately there were some barrels of water that I had brought in for washing, With this my wife fought the fire, and when the water gave out, she used the milk we had. But you arrived just in the nick of time. Come in and receive thanks from the ladies. God bless them! These are new and hard experiences for them!'

"Then I collected my scattered senses and made a rush for the window. Never mind what I said to Kate or what she said to me at that meeting. I couldn't tell you, even if I wished. My joy at seeing her was so great that I did not even think of asking her how she came to be way out in the western wilderness.

"There is only one thing that I remember clearly and that was a resolve, made on the spot, that she should never have another experience like the one through which she had just passed. It was decided that the family should return with us to our settlement and remain there until the Indian troubles were over.

"That evening I said to Kate, 'Are you still as undecided as when I left you?'

"She raised her sweet, true eyes to mine, and I wanted to fall down and worship her when she answered, 'I was never undecided, dear, but I could not leave my father. It was not that he thought you unworthy, but he did not wish me to marry, nor to care for any one more than I did for him. I dared not tell you that he stood between us, so I had to act as I did, and give you a wrong impression. After father died, I was all alone and I went to live with my Uncle John, because I knew he intended to come west. My heart told me that, in spite of all, you still loved me. I thought, perhaps, we might meet, so that has made me strong enough to endure cheerfully all the trials of this frontier life.'

"Then, well, I just told her, in my own way, that my home was waiting for her and that the future held no trials which we could not share together. We felt ourselves most literally, if not lineally, the descendants of Priscilla Mullins and John Alden, and we 'touched hands' with them after a lapse of nearly three centuries. We, in this western frontier, were merely carrying forth the work they had so nobly begun in the wilds of New England. The same devotion to principle and love of religious liberty, the same courageous fortitude in facing the trials of life in a new world, were ours; and that Thanksgiving Day, in 1851, was observed in exactly the same way as was that in Plymouth in 1621.