The General Procession
James H, Anderson

Ireland still was under guerrilla war disturbances in October.

The new tariff law of the United States went into effect on September 21.

The American squadron at Constantinople was strengthened by twelve additional war vessels early in October.

The "Mormon" chapel at Ocean Park, Cal., was dedicated by President Heber J. Grant on September 21.

Three hundred Japanese fishermen were drowned in a storm off the coast of Japan, on September 28.

President Harding vetoed the soldier bonus bill in September, because the burden of taxation incurred by the same was too heavy for the people.

Senator Reed Smoot arrived in Utah on October 2, from a long and busy session of Congress, and was accorded an enthusiastic reception in Salt Lake City. He was accompanied by Mrs. Smoot.

In Italy, on September 28, the explosion of an arsenal through being struck by lightning killed 200 men and injured 500 others.

Russia united with Turkey in September, in assuming an attitude hostile to Great Britain, with promise of warlike activity in the not far distant future.

King Constantine of Greece was compelled to abdicate on September 27, owing to the defeat of the Greek army by the Turks, and his son King George was placed on the throne.

British labor unions, in September, demanded the resignation of the British Premier, David Lloyd George, thus encouraging the return aggression of the Turks toward Constantinople.

The Austrian government, owing to the threatening attitude of Turkey toward Great Britain, tendered to the latter a larger army than was engaged in the world war, to fight the Turks.

At Jackson, Cal., in September, a fire in the Argonaut mine entombed 47 men, who were taken out dead after 22 days in efforts to rescue them.

Elder Orson F. Whitney of the Council of the Twelve, who has been presiding over the Latter-day Saints European mission, was released in October, his successor being David O. McKay.

The Protestant Episcopal convention held at Portland, Oregon, in September, adopted faith-healing as part of its doctrine, and denounced secret organizations that resort to violence in strikes to enforce demands.

The United States government, by definite action on September 23, obtained court orders enjoining 400,000 strikers of the railway department of the American Federation of Labor from resorting to violence to gain their ends.

Former Senator George Sutherland of Utah, was appointed a member of the United States Supreme Court on September 5 and sworn in on October 2. This is the highest national compliment that has yet come to Utah.

United Mine Workers who were on strike in the United States were indicted by an Illinois grand jury in September, to the number of 214, for murder and kindred offenses during the riots at Herrin, Illinois, in June, last.

Turkish nationalist forces, having totally defeated the Greek armies in Asia Minor in September, and approached Constantinople, danger of another great war impended, to be postponed only by careful diplomacy, and then apparently for but a comparatively brief period.

Dr. Samuel Dickie, president emeritus of Albion college, Michigan, issued instruction to college students in September, to "do their smoking in a cowshed," and announced that smoking in public is as vulgar as going down a business street munching a meat pie.

Great Britain took a position in September against the Turkish power coming back into Europe after the Turks had defeated the Greeks; while France and Italy assumed an opposing attitude. There is marked significance in these two Catholic nations aligning themselves with the Mohammedans against Protestant Great Britain. Their alignment also is racial—against the Anglo-Saxon race.
 

Mrs. Charlotte Despard, sister of Field Marshal French of Great Britain, is a candidate for election to the British House of Commons.

Mrs. Adelina Otero-Warren has been nominated as the Republican party candidate for member of Congress from New Mexico.

Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, the Utah coloratura, began an engagement in grand opera with the Zuro Opera Company at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, New York, on September 11.

Mrs. Ebert, wife of the president of Germany, takes a specially active interest in the political questions of the day, particularly as these affect the younger people.

Princess Herminie, widow, of a distinguished German military officer, becomes the wife of former Kaiser Wilhelm, the wedding date having been fixed for November 5.

Miss Mary Catherine Campbell, of Columbus, Ohio, won the $5000 golden mermaid at the Atlantic City, N. J., contest, on September 8, for the most beautiful young woman in America.

Fashion designers in Paris have decreed that the "bustle" familiar to women's dress forty years ago, shall be in vogue again at an early date.

At Zurich, Switzerland, in September, the women who frequent the bathing resort there, were given the opportunity of voting on whether or not they would mix with the men bathers, and voted 10 to 1 to mix.

Mrs. Gerard Leigh, daughter of the late Wm. Goudy of Chicago, and wife of Captain Gerard Leigh of the British First Life Guards, is acclaimed the most beautiful American blonde in London society.

Twenty-five thousand Christian girls were carried captive by the Turks in September, at the capture of Smyrna from the Greeks, according to Alonzo T. Wilson, American national field director for the Near East Relief, who was in Salt Lake City, Utah, on September 28.

A Chicago newspaper took a vote in September, of 19,000 women, as to which they preferred, the bashful hero or the brave and fearless one. The vote was 8 to 1 in favor of the bashful young man.

Mme. Riviere de la Souchere, a French aristocratic ranchwoman, who has made a remarkable success of a rubber plantation and cattle-farm in Indo-China, has been decorated by the French government with the Cross of the Legion of Honor.

Miss Merlen Back, of Draper, Utah, won the gold loving cup, the second prize in a contest of 40,000 juvenile writers, given by the National Highway Education Board in September. The subject of her essay was "How to make Highways Safe."

Princess Christopher of Greece, who formerly was Mrs. Wm. B. Leeds, of New York, and later married the brother of King Constantine, when asked if her husband would take the throne of the deposed monarch, replied that under no circumstances was she a candidate for queen.

Mrs. I. C. Tatum of Dallas, Texas, was taken out in September by a mob of women, and given 100 lashes because she refused to have her daughter educated in a church organization there. The church people claimed she is unsuitable to rear the girl.

Mrs. Katherine Dickey, of Atlanta, Georgia, was the dancing partner of King Alfonso of Spain at a recent French society ball, when her father, whom she had not seen for several months, came into the room. Exclaiming, "Wait a minute," she ran to her father, leaving Alfonso alone, and he left the floor. When she returned she sent an apology for having followed American instead of European etiquette.

Miss Elsie Fuller, the first American movie star to take an active part in staging German films, is in Germany to help the work of combining the German and the American films. On account of her youth and above all her beauty, two, characteristics which German managers confess are scarce in German movie circles, Miss Fuller is attracting much attention in Berlin screen society.