Parents, What of Youth in a War-torn World?
Mark K. Allen
Psychologist, Utah State Training School
No. V.
YOUTH in modern peace-time faced difficult problems arising from the fact that economic, social, mental, and physiological maturity did not arrive simultaneously. Few youths were able to assume full economic, social, and psychological independence before their middle or late twenties. In pioneer days, marriages were possible at an early age because agricultural life often favored early economic and social weaning. On the other hand, in recent years, prolonged training and difficulties of finding employment have greatly complicated the problem of attaining adult status. These obstacles to attaining maturity have led to prolonged sheltering in our homes and the usual difficulties of making the transition to independence after such habitual leaning on others.
With these reflections in mind, let us consider the problems of youth in the present crisis. The conditions that formerly prolonged childhood dependence are suddenly changed. Many young men and women in their teens are now finding employment at higher wages than their parents ever received. The teaching of yesterday that long years of training and maturation are necessary to earn high incomes has suddenly lost its meaning. Many young people are being lured away from school by the immediate rewards of high wages and new freedom. Youth with no special work skills nor aptitudes are now earning incomes grossly out of proportion to their needs. With such lucrative employment has come a new emancipation from the home. Young people now assume that with adult income they should be entitled to adult status in all respects. Parental controls over conduct may now be called into question. Economic controls will no longer hold the youth under parental influence.
The economics of the present crisis have serious implications for youth. Marriages formerly postponed for economic reasons are now likely to be rushed into with little further thought. This is another expression of the sudden urge of today's young people to seek complete adult status. This is not altogether unfortunate, since one of the greatest sources of adolescent conflict heretofore was the disparity between the age of physiological maturity?the basis of mating?and economic maturity?the first condition for establishing a home. However, other problems lurk in the wake of these newly-won gains.
Young people probably work under greater pressure than ever before in their lives. This tension calls for releases. Recreational pursuits may take dangerous courses. Time for play is short: the pleasures must be exciting. Incomes of today are well-known to be inflationary, which means that money is more plentiful than things to buy. Shoddy pleasures, however, may be plentiful. Certainly, so far, liquor is plentiful, and it constitutes a new and real danger for youth. The rationing of automobiles, tires, gasoline, and soon probably many other items, makes the problem of drinking doubly serious; youth may drink simply for want of other things to do.
Aside from the present danger of inflationary wages, there is the aftermath of plenty. If youth is profligate now, a false philosophy of consumption will be conceived. When deflation and normalcy return, this philosophy will make difficult adjustments necessary. Youth will have to revise its evaluation of its own importance in the scheme of things.
ON the psychological front are new problems of youth. Youth's whole philosophy of life is shaken by the vision of a sick world, which to youth seems to promise no clear-cut future. The immediate threat of probably being called into the armed forces ere long creates a certain abandon in attitude toward former ideals. Time seems so short even for a few tangible satisfactions; future rewards seem so remote and ethereal. Precipitous marriages or promiscuity are kindled by this type of thinking. Careless use of money, gambling, and drinking are other expressions.
War produces a certain sanction for many acts formerly prohibited. Hatred of the enemy makes most any act of violence seem justifiable. This condition contributes to the moral disillusionment and confusion of youth. All values may be at least challenged, if not discarded. Parents may well serve as the great ethical balance wheels to preserve values youth may not at the moment be able to appreciate. Yet to be effective in this office, parents should see clearly the problems of youth in order to lead the way through darkness to a better day. Too harsh condemnation will surely alienate the youth in his hour of greatest need of guidance.
The relationships between parents and youth are extremely important today. Always in peace time, waywardness of youth has usually followed some defect in this relationship; today the probability is even greater. Parents are themselves forced to make many difficult adjustments to the present crisis. Their failure to adjust satisfactorily to war anxiety and great economic and social changes may be projected into tensions and compensations in dealing with youth. Parents may resort to severe prohibitions and moralizing in an effort to reinstate the former parent-child relationship. Parents may be too absorbed in new defense responsibilities to have time to counsel with youths about their problems. In this case, the young people are denied guidance and are left to work things out the best they can. The sensible approach lies somewhere between these extremes.
Some parents energetically resist the maturing of their children because of dread that soon they will be called by the draft, with the train of ugly uncertainties that follow. They cling on to the last days of childhood with tenacity. Sometimes these parents are satisfying their own emotional needs, rather than thinking of the youth in such a way as best to fit him for the grim future facing him.
The stress of war should not divert us from our great mission as parents. Never before has the challenge to noble parenthood been quite so great. We should not "crack down" on young people for their newly exploited freedom, but we should attempt to enlist their confidence in our wisdom and leadership. It is hopeless, and wrong, to try to prevent their growing up and taking their places in the great task of winning the war. We should treat them as confederates in a great cause, not as subordinates.
OF the many timely suggestions that might be made to parents, we suggest, first, that in our homes an effort be made to create an atmosphere of confidence and faith in the future. This faith does not mean failure to face and discuss freely the grim realities of the war. But if we are to fight our way through the present darkness as free and enlightened people, we must constantly think that the great task of preserving the world for our child can and will be accomplished. Many must die for that cause, but it is not hopeless to fight for it unless in our homes we feel it is hopeless.
Second, patriotism should rightly enter into our counseling with youth about their problems. But we should not undermine the patriotism of young people by associating this appeal with everyday trivia. To ask young people to do routine chores because it is "patriotic" may create unpleasant feelings about being patriotic. However, we should encourage young people to save money, for example, for future education and homemaking. Patriotic purchase of bonds is an excellent ideal to encourage. If young people can be made to feel that they are contributing to the war effort in a grown-up and important way, they will obtain valuable development from this crisis. Incidentally, draining off surplus wages through bond purchases may help prevent other difficulties of youth. Young people need to see that there are future values worth working and saving money and themselves for. This teaching should apply to morals as well as to money.
A third thought is that we should attempt to preserve some semblance of normalcy in our family life. The war is serious, but that doesn't mean everything in our old way of doing must go at once. Complete breaks from all normal activities and relationships may create a sense of being lost, of not "belonging" in the new world. A gradual transition, whenever possible, permits youth to assume the adult role without undue shock and confusion. This will be helpful to both parent and youth.
Fourth, we need to revise frequently, if not continuously, our ideas about the maturity of our children. If we properly respect the needs of our children at successive ages, always recognizing the full measure of their maturity, there is little need for their compensating by bizarre and ridiculous behavior, such as smoking, drinking, reckless driving, and "wild" parties. An effective device for enlisting the confidence of a young person is to talk to him and treat him as though he really is the mature person he would like to be.
Fifth, we should always keep the door open for youth to seek counsel. They should be judiciously taught to think hopefully into the future. They should learn to face hardships with the fortitude that comes only through a sensible philosophy. They should be taught that wars have been fought before, and that no war is necessarily the end of all good things. However much we may look with alarm upon the trends of modern youth, we should not tell them they are "going to the dogs." Rather, we should express confidence in their ability to fight their problems through. We should sincerely express our hope in their ability to contribute greatly to the winning of the war.
Sixth, parents should respect the privacy of youth. The usual result of "prying" into their private affairs is disaffection between parent and youth. A relationship of confidence will permit the youth to air his troubles. His need for an audience for his problems is pronounced at a time like this when the anxieties of youth are so overwhelming. Often under the bold front of the suddenly mature youth, are deep anxieties that he dares not reveal now that he is a man and has supposedly "put away childish things." It helps him infinitely to discuss his anxieties and perhaps his feelings of guilt with an understanding parent, one who will not condemn, but who will intelligently help. Impetuous decisions are not nearly so likely when a youth has easy access to sensible counsel. Ill-considered marriages are often a retreat from hostile parents who may have meant well, but whose attitude prevented their children from seeking their counsel. Certainly decisions such as when a youth should marry cannot be made by a universal and arbitrary dictum. These decisions are life adjustments that must be made in the light of many complex circumstances, and they require time. Preconceived decisions of parents on these matters close the doors to the youth when he needs counsel most.
If we are to expect youth not to fail the cause of righteousness in this darkest hour, we must not fail youth as parents in this their greatest hour of need.

(Concluded from page 600)
dent of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, seeing the dilemma, offered to supervise the project. The big parlor, long halls, and wide porches were covered with sewers and yards of canvas. The curtain was completed in time, and was a success. We children were all very proud to have a part in this gigantic undertaking."