Helpin' Out
Ruth Savage Hilton
WE were vacationing among the multi-colored scenes of Northern Arizona. My husband, four youngsters?three of them boys and one a baby girl?and myself made crowd enough, and hosts of fun. However, one certain day brought our thrills to a new height.
It was noontime. We had just crossed the Navajo Bridge. Here were the waters of the great Colorado River surging beneath us as we walked back to the middle of the mighty steel span. We were awed by the majesty of the perpendicular, rock walls which held the water to its course. We dropped rocks to the river below us and watched, fascinated, as they would fall over and over. It seemed to take an incredibly long time before the sound of their impact against the water would come back to us. We could not hear a splash nor see any sort of disturbance on the surface of the water. What we did hear was a deafening sound as though a cannonade was in progress. The phenomenon of this echo was so intriguing that it was an effort to induce the family to think that we ought to be at our lunch.
At last we lunched near the canyon rim, enjoying the vast spectacle as we recalled that day in , when the Navajo Bridge was dedicated. It is located below the old Lee's Ferry site. This ferry is the place where early Mormon pioneers crossed the river in their trek to colonize the valley's of the Little Page 614 Colorado in an answer to the call from the Prophet Brigham Young, in the early 70's. The main arch of this bridge is 816 feet long and stands above the water about 462 feet. We who grew up in Northern Arizona always delight in the story of how long we waited?how long our fathers waited?to see the mighty river crossed by bands of steel so that traffic might pass without the terrific danger which fording it in any sort of boat always entailed. So today we talked of that dedication; how the people came from all the country 'round to celebrate. Governors from surrounding states were our guests. 'The Indians of the land came enmasse. And we all joined in the glowing pageant which depicted the joys and _ sorrows, strifes and heroic efforts 'of early days on the "Painted Desert." The older folk told us stories of pioneers ?stories of those who chiseled the path for us to follow. It was at this celebration that we heard of Susan. USAN was a woman of the frontier. One who brought her love of home, her -babies, her ideals of civilization with her. One whose religion bade her colonize the desert and "make it blossom as the rose." Just a bride, with her stalwart, new husband ? Jedediah Hanks ? she came to Sunset with Lot Smith's first company in 1876. Here she took her place with their first Relief Societies, and under Sister Porter's able direction she learned to help - HELPIN' OUT those in distress. Their seven years of pioneering at this place is a matter of record now. 'Their success, their failures, their genuine effort to live the "United Order" as they understood it. 'Then the dissolution of the settlement. Brother Hanks took his family to the ranch. It was a homestead?actes and acres of wild grazing land (when there was enough rain) near Lee's Ferry, on the south side of the river. Today as we hugged the river walls her story seemed very close to me. I told it to the children, all I remembered of Susan and her boy Jed?for Jed loved the river. It held for him the meaning of his homeland. He loved its mighty currents, gigantic walls, adjacent hills, and the people who crossed it?those who spent days plodding through the sand on the northern side, dared to cross the stream, and stayed to become a permanent part of the "Painted Desert." For hours he often sat near the summit of the trail leading up Lee's Backbone which guarded the great river. Here he watched, or dreamed. Or did he vision the future? And as Susan watched her boy, she alone understood just why the river meant so much to him. She was proud of his young manhood?nineteen years, but still just her boy; and you couldn't know Susan until you knew how much she loved Jed. She smiled softly one morning as she recalled that even though it was 2:30 a. M. When he came home last night, he stopped by her bed to tell the time and say, "Hello, Mom." Now as she fixed their simple breakfast and waited for him to come down, she wondered how the long 615 ride had been. He had been gone more than three days riding to Flagstaff, the county seat. Most of all, however, she was anxious to know the outcome of his errand. "There he is now," a creaking stairway from the loft made the announcement. Then, by way of last minute preparation, Susan put on a fresh apron, smoothing it into place with hard, seamy hands. Her apron ?it might be blue, black, green, or red, but always checked with white, always of huge proportions, always bristling with freshness?offered the only variety in Susan's wardrobe of domestic homespun. As Jed entered the tiny kitchen he seemed to fill it. He was tall, rugged, still almost boyish in the good-morning kiss he gave his mother. And his face was browned to a shade akin to the leather jacket which he wore. "And what's the news,' Susan queried the moment the blessing was finished. "Not so good." "What! Not yet?" "No, them country supervisors think it ain't no use. If people're afraid to cross the Colorado let them come in from the east, they say." "But, son, it wouldn't cost much ?just a cable fastened tight on each side, and a good raft fastened to it by more cable, an' a pully!" "Yep." Jed fairly bolted his hot cakes, then without raising his eyes he went on, "That's it, Mom. My plan... Ever since I was ten and started seein' folks drown, trying to get across." "Did you tell 'em 'bout..." "'Bout everthing. Them mossbacks! Why someone else'll come 616 'long and bridge the whole canyon one 0' these days, while them fellers won't stir up a cable!" "But people'll keep comin'. You can't stop 'em, Jed, and they must get across." "Yep?an' we'll keep right on workin' till we git the crossin' fixed." Susan, grave and earnest, looked approvingly at the boy for a moment, and then moved to her rocking chair. With Jed's back to her, she sighed heavily, leaned her streaked gray head against the chair back and watched him finish his meal. There was a host of work to do, but she'd rest just a few minutes; somehow she didn't feel so young anymore. Was she worn out?. No, of course not. She was only 57. It did seem an eternity, however, since she, her mate, and the youngsters had left Sunset. Lured by the promise of grazing lands around the slopes skirting the great river, they had settled near the cove which sheltered the river's ford. At least the river could be forded here if great caution and skill were present. That coming was twenty years ago. Jed wasn't born. She wished now, as she looked at him closely, that he wouldn't take it so hard. He'd get his way bout the crossing someday. When Jed was discouraged, she always thought of that first year at the cow ranch. How bleak and cold the few winter months were! Then in February came the glory of spring with the roundup, the stampede, and... The morning they brought him home ?her husband. "Injured," somebody said. She rushed to him, but only for a moment?the last one of his life. He ? was gasping, "Susie... I'll stay close 'round... Closeas ever I can. Pll try... Try to always be... Helpin' out.": Just three weeks later Jed was born. Sure 'nough his Pa must have been helpin' out. The new tiny one brought so much gladness, an' they'd been able to get on. And now he was a man, and she was 'still takin' care. Pa must be close, for he loved the river and the things round it. There had been many hard days in Jed's boyhood; he never did what anybody expected him to do. However, he was honest and good to her. That was why they kept on?just the two of them at the old cow ranch. There had been other children, five of them. But all were married; and with varying degrees of sincerity all were constantly offering Susan a home. "Jed should be shiftin' fur himself. Mom's cared for him long enough," Mamie would insist. And truly she did want her mother to give up the hard work at the ranch and move back to Utah. That's what the letter said yesterday. Jed was away when it came. "'Nough is 'nough. "I'was good hash, Mom." Jed sauntered away from the table, and stood tall against the low doorframe as he looked out. Susan rose slowly, winced ever so slightly, then crossed the room, reached to the clock shelf and took Mamie's letter from behind the shiny little ticker. They read it together. Again he looked out, away off toward the rugged decline of tableland, and sighted the bed of the mighty Colorado. "Nope, Mom, I jest can't go. The river fur me." HELPIN' OUT Susan made no reply, but gazed at him curiously. Queer how he always would stay on, just as though he knew her thoughts. "Wal, you know someone has to stay in sech parts or how would civilization ever ketch up?" he defended, as he started for the corral. "Won't be gone long today. [ll jest ride out a bit an' see what's been goin' on since I left." He swung the saddle into place and rode away careless as a child at play. Susan noticed he carried a new lariat. He must have brought it from Flagstaff, she thought. Snip pranced a moment, then buried shiny hoofs deep into the desert soil and obliterated himself and rider in a Cloud of dust. He was gone. Susan sighed audibly. She could sometimes do that when alone. "It's all right, but I reckon I might like to go, even if he don't." Then with sudden effort she turned to her work. HE day passed quickly. It was early afternoon. "Jed should've been comin' an hour ago." She would go down the trail a bit; perhaps over the ridge she'd meet him. The tinge of spring in the air made Susan walk briskly. She looked away on every side intently, then anxiously. It wasn't Jed's way to give her alarm. Her eyes followed the vast tableland on one side and the swift guttering decline on the other. At the foot of this hilly, almost precipitous ridge, flowed the river. It was enclosed by lofty concave cliffs of clay and red stone on either side, giving fine promise of the giant rock walls of the canyon some seventy-five 617 miles below. She called,- "Halloo"?and the clear voice of the pioneer woman was answered by a thousand echoes, again and again. She thrilled at the sound. This never grew old?getting back from the canyon that which she gave. Jed knew her call as well as the echo. He'd make Snip step up a bit. At the top of the ridge she came in sight of the water, majestic in its mighty sweep, gnashing at its confines, the currents pouring in opposite directions in the same cross line or whirling in eddies of terrific swiftness?a rushing, swirling mass, pouring onward with power which charmed and fascinated the spectator. The river was so close, yet so forbidding. A shiver shook Susan slightly, as with closed eyes she heard in memory Jed's often repeated phrase. "The thing tells life?its height, its depth, all about it?fur me." She decided there must be something down at the crossing. Yes, there was! There were some folks and a real stir. No wonder Jed wasn't home. She hurried down the trail until she had full view, then she stopped. Snip was there, standing apart from the group; and Jed, too. He was stripped to the waist, barefoot, breeches rolled to the knees. He looked as though he were fixing the landing. "Them recent floods have gutted it too much," she could hear him cry. How big he appeared! A head taller than any one around him! The muscles of his naked arms stood out like great knots. Susan saw a confused group of people, mostly women and children, with 618 a ? their belongings dumped on the steep bank. "On the move' told their story?the first load of a company of settlers. Across the river, several hundred yards upstream, she sighted two rafts just shoving off shore. The smaller "one was loaded with people, mostly, and seemed to be getting out into the stream rather well. 'The larger one was too large; it was unwieldy. One glance told her it was overloaded, and that the men wildly plying planks as oars were not familiar with water or boats of any kind, much less the Colorado. Evidently the company had grown daring because of the success which attended the landing of their first small raft load of women and children. Hence, they had thrown together this large unsteady thing, taken their wagons apart, and loaded on it all they had in one big flourish to get across before night. Watching ever so intently, Susan poked vigorously at the grass stubble with the toe of her heavy shoe; she stood erect, looked graver. The big raft floated slowly for a few moments, then pushed boldly out into midstream where a great eddy caught it. Slowly but surely the men at the oars were losing control. Then as she swirled half around, the loose load slipped decidedly to one side, and the raft shot out swiftly? zigzag. The men worked like mad then, as if in panic. In a flash all on shore saw the danger. The big raft was as good as gone. Would it miss the little one? In its frantic whirling it was getting dangerously near?too near. Susan saw the group at the landing look petrified. Jed, stripped except for his trousers, with the new lariat looped in his iron grasp, ran like a flash down the bank and roared, "Let 'er go! Swim for the other raft!" No one heard. "Let 'er go! If you turn 'er again, she'll hit the little one!" Still they worked wildly. The big raft whirled half around and stood erect on her side, scattering dismembered wagons into the swishing waters. Men jumped or dived deep to clear the wreck, while the raft itself struck the corner of the small one. The sudden impact gave her a quick spin, jolting the plank from the hands of the oarsmen. Like a dart, she shot down the river straight for the rapids. 'Those on board could hear the dull roar. What will Jed do! Susan saw his jaws close like a vice. Quick as thought, he slipped a loop at one end of the lasso over his head, securing it around his body. 'Then with a strong spring he went into the water, swiftly but coolly swimming for the frantic little boat. The mother in Susan wanted to scream, but she didn't. Standing stiff she watched as one frozen to the spot. There was one chance. Could he catch the boat by the time it reached the pool of calmer water just above the rapids, and fasten his rope to the projecting granite boulder they called the Nipple? Could he? The men from the capsized raft had caught hold of pieces of the wreck to aid them, and they might reach the small boat if Jed could head it off. Susan could hear her own breath coming in short spurts in the still air. There was not a sound, save the swishing rush of HELPIN' OUT waters. Still Jed swam on and on, forever it seemed. At last with one mad effort he threw the free end of his lasso and someone on board caught it; they fastened it securely to the little boat. For one moment he simply floated. Then just above the rapids he seemed to sense that the pool sheltered by the great Nipple was near. Wildly now he swam. The men vigorously worked their plank. Was he getting anywhere? "Oh!" Susan half screamed, half prayed, and joined the group on shore as they ran down the bank toward the Nipple. Still the swimmer lurched and fought with the gushing current. He lurched again ?and then with almost superhuman effort he fairly jerked the little craft from the mad current and swung it around into the pool. "Could he rest?" she asked herself. No, there was far too much of the river even here to allow that. With his strength all but gone, Jed started for the projecting rock, trailing the boat. Slowly, almost feebly, he neared the rocky shore, struggling to grasp something firm. Jutting rocks bruised his flesh. The rope was cutting into his sides. Had he made it? No, he sank under the churning, colored water. When next Susan saw him, his head was bleeding. Again and again he tried. Then, yes, he had made 619 the rock and firm hands from the bank caught and held him. As they secured the rope around the Nipple, women prayed and strong men wept in thanksgiving. 'Their kin were safe! But Susan saw how tenderly someone carried Jed from amidst the tocks and found a spot of earth to lay him down. He struggled only an instant. His hands hung limp. Half kneeling on the slippery rocks she gathered his head into her arms. It was over; her boy was dead. She gave a cry of desperate loneliness; a look of hard pain shot like a spasm over the drawn face, then a gleam of something soft and faraway came to Susan's weary eyes, and she was speaking with a sureness that Jed would still know and understand. "Yes, Jed, Vl stay right on till the crossin's fixed... And... You... Too... You'll stay close 'round, like yer... Pa?jest helpin' out." BUDDY'S eyes were burning with eagerness as he looked at me and asked, "Did she, mother? Did Susan stay 'round?" "Yes, she stayed and worked. She lived to see the cable put above the crossing, and others like her stayed until now her daughter's daughter crosses that same stream on a smooth highway supported by the great steel arch of Navajo Bridge." SERVE and thou shalt be served. If you love and serve men, you cannot, by any hiding or stratagem, escape the remuneration."?Emerson. 66 'NOUGH, if something from our hands have power to live, and act, and serve the future hour.""?Wordsworth.