Happenings
Annie Wells Cannon
We would hold you long, September days,
With your mystic song and purple haze.
Will the opening of the schools, the renewed functioning of the Parent-Teacher Association and the women's clubs, an important part of the population will be back to normal, and there will be an increased use of the public libraries, provided these groups endeavor to maintain their customary search for knowledge and to uphold the finer cultural ideals of community life. Even in these days of strife and turmoil and sorrow, let us hold fast to the higher, beautiful things of life.
JUDGE REVA BECK BOSONE, of Utah, had some novel experiences in her recent trip East. Besides a conference with Judge Black of the Supreme Court, she sat as second judge on the Cleveland bench at the trial of twenty-three racketeers, considered so dangerous that all prosecution witnesses had to be kept in jail while waiting to testify.
DR. MILDRED HELEN McAFEE, president of Wellesley College, was sworn in head of the newly-created feminine navy reserve with the rank of lieutenant commander, August 3, 1942. The oath was administered by Secretary of the Navy Knox. Present also was Admiral Ernest J. King, Commander-in-Chief of the United States Fleet.
DIANA BARRYMORE, 21, has chosen marriage for a career. Will she also give up the Barrymore traditional stage career? Unlike Diana, Princess Alexandra, of Greece, has been compelled because of war conditions to postpone her hopes of blissful marriage with her young lover, King Peter of Yugoslavia. So goes the world.
FLORENCE GRANT SMITH, talented daughter of President Heber J. Grant, since exhibiting her beautiful water colors this summer, is ranked among the professionals by artist judges.
GUSANA BRANSFORD EMERY HOLMES, 83, Utah's "Silver Queen," died this summer. A world-wide traveler and socialite, she led a colorful life. In Utah she possessed large holdings and had many close friends.
LENORA HUNTER BARTON, matron of the L. D. S. Nurse's home, died suddenly last month. She was an active Church worker all her life.
MRS. EMMA CORBRIDGE, of Utah, passed her ninetieth birthday last month midst a town celebration in her honor. With her life essentially one of wonderful experiences, she finds herself still interested in world affairs.

Vol. 
Relief Society Educational Season 1942-43
THE month of September always finds Relief Society women looking forward to the opening of the Relief Society educational season. This year, the beginning of the second 100 years of Relief Society work, finds us facing many new and unusual conditions. The war has brought about many changes to which we must adjust and which will tax the ingenuity and resourcefulness of Relief Society leaders whether serving in general, stake, or ward capacities:
General and stake Relief Society conferences and union meetings have been discontinued during the war emergency. Visits by General Board members to stakes and by stake leaders to wards, where travel is entailed, have necessarily been curtailed. Some women who have efficiently served the Society as officers and class leaders are giving up their positions because they have accepted employment in order to aid the war effort. And, at the same time, the members of the Society, sorely taxed spiritually because of the uncertainties, separations, and sorrows incident to the war, are looking to the Society to help them to make proper evaluations, to guide them in how to best conduct their lives, how to most wisely administer the affairs of their homes, how to help their children meet life in a world dislocated by war, and above all to help them to keep spiritually strong. All this comes at a time when Relief Society leaders are called upon to hold the interest of more than 40,000 new members who have come into the Society as a result of the centennial membership-building program. It is no wonder that Relief Society leaders approach the work of the new season with apprehension and humility, wondering how they may manage without that which of necessity has been taken from them, and how they may in reality meet the numerous pressing needs of a greatly increased membership.
Upon ward officers will fall much of the burden, but they must not feel that the entire problem is theirs and theirs alone. Even though general and stake Relief Society conferences have been discontinued, the General Board, through the stakes, is keeping in very close touch with the local Societies, directing the work through bulletins and correspondence. Additional helps, such as a booklet, Leads for Class Leaders, will also be provided by the General Board. Stake boards, while not conducting union meetings, are advised to remain fully officered, and to stand ready to aid the wards in every possible way. The conduct of the union meeting, after all, is only one of the many ways through which the stake unit strengthens the wards. Through interpreting programs, relaying instructions of the General Board, by counseling on the general conduct of the work, by assisting in the planning of ward conferences, by their sincere interest in the general work of the wards, stake leaders may do much to help the wards during the coming season. By keeping well informed on conditions within the respective wards of the stake, stake officers are in a position to acquaint the General Board with changes and conditions, and to keep it advised as to the needs of the wards. Thus, the General Board is enabled to better plan for the Society as a whole.
Then, too, relieved of the work incident to the union meeting, some stake leaders will find it possible to assist the wards by accepting ward positions along with their stake positions. This is entirely in harmony with the First Presidency's communication of January 27, 1942, which stated that "bishops of wards will so supervise the personnel of their auxiliary organizations as to bring into immediate and active service the members of the stake auxiliary organizations who are also members of their wards" and that this be accomplished "in consultation with the stake auxiliary officers concerned." If the position accepted in the ward is in the same department as that held in the stake, very little additional preparation will be required. The ward will actually become a proving ground for the stake leader, and thus both the stake and the ward units will be benefited. Relieved of the union meeting and in some stakes of frequent visiting because of distances, stake leaders may attend their own wards more regularly and thus become a great asset to the ward organization as members.
While the disadvantages of the present situation loom large, a careful analysis of the situation reveals that the responsibilities of stake leaders in helping wards to maintain high standards of work remain the same as heretofore. It is merely that new ways of helping, in substitution for union meeting and ward visits, must be devised.
Where ward organizations are being affected by efficient officers and class leaders leaving to accept employment in defense work, we may well turn to our new members. Among the more than 40,000 women who have come into the Society during the past four years will be found many with well-developed talent and many more with potential ability who, when given the opportunity, will serve effectively and well. Relief Society has always regarded the development of leadership strength as one of its important functions. Rather than being discouraged because capable women, who in the past have served well, are not now free to hold positions in the organization, leaders should be alert to the interests and abilities of those who are available, and should recognize in the present situation an opportunity to develop and utilize new and heretofore unused strength.
One hundred years ago, as Relief Society embarked on its first century, there were, no doubt, many problems to be solved and many difficulties to be overcome?problems and difficulties different from those which mark the beginning of the second century, but no less grave perhaps in the minds of the women responsible for the work of this great Society. Just as Relief Society women of that day proved equal to their tasks, so too will the women of today. The Society has never retrogressed nor stood still, but has gone steadily forward, solving problems, surmounting obstacles, and serving humanity. The history of the coming year, like the history of the past century, will be one of struggle, but it will also be one of mastery.
The Relief Society program of today has been planned with a view to meeting the present needs of Latter-day Saint women?both practical and spiritual. Through resourcefulness, conscientious effort, wise planning, through counseling with bishops and fellow officers, and through reliance upon the Lord, high standards may still be maintained in spite of obstacles. With the spirit of the Gospel permeating all that is done, Relief Society will continue to be a sustaining influence in the lives of its members, and the new season will offer rewards commensurate to the effort put forth. The coming season should be one of real service and genuine satisfaction.?B. S. S.