Literature
The Bible As Literature
Lesson 3 What the Bible Is (Tuesday, December 15, 1942)
(Class leaders should constantly keep in mind that this course considers the Bible only as literature, and makes no attempt at theological problems.)
Objective: To show the interesting steps in the gradual development of the Bible as a unified piece of literature.
Lesson Topics
1. Older books from which the Bible evolved.
2. Important Bible manuscripts.
3. Outstanding versions of the Bible.
Older Books From Which The Bible Evolved
The origin and gradual growth of the Bible into its present form is an interesting story. This book was not produced as most books are, by a single author writing for a few months or years; but it is a library of books, the work of many authors working through hundreds of years. It is the record of the religion of the Hebrew race, written at different times by men of lofty vision and inspiration; yet it was not alone for the Hebrews, but for the people of all times. It thus becomes a much more significant piece of literature than any national epic, being so much broader in its scope and influence.
The Bible as a unit is unusual. It is not history in the ordinary sense. It is a spiritual autobiography of a chosen people. Its form is unique in that it has an historic framework serving as a sort of connective tissue through which are woven the higher literary forms, poetry, drama, essays, prophecy, etc., depicting the spiritual life of the people.
The first six books of the Old Testament are different from the rest in that they are more composite. They are made up of a skillful interweaving of several older histories. Scholars are able to detect the parts of these books which come from the different sources. The history of the other books of the Old Testament is much simpler. Many of these books were single books much as they are today, though they date as far back as 700 B. C. "Ruth," it is believed, was written about 450 B. C. And "Esther" about 250 B. C.
The "Book of Proverbs" represents collections of wise and truthful observations on life gathered, scholars tell us, through the years from 900 to 250 B. C. "Job" is thought to have been written about 250 B. C. The books of the Prophets were composed through a period of approximately 600 years.
Surprising to the modern reader is the realization that some of the greatest literary books in the world existed long before printing was known. That is true of the Bible. The oldest copies are in manuscript form, some of them beautifully illuminated, as are other old masterpieces, such as "Beowulf," now in Oxford University. Printing was not invented until the fifteenth century; so we see that the Bible had existed hundreds of years before it appeared in a form similar in any way to the Bible we read.
Important Biblical Manuscripts
There are more than three thousand manuscripts of the Bible in existence, dated at various times from 325 A. D. to the thirteenth century. These are now treasured among the valuable relics in the great libraries of the world. Although not one of these is absolutely complete, there are about thirty which contain all the books of the Old and New Testaments, lacking only a few leaves of being complete. The greater number of these old manuscripts, however, contain but small portions of the scriptures.
Of all these old writings, three are of special importance because they are so very ancient. Originally they all contained the entire Greek Bible, the Old and New Testaments, in what is called the Septuagint Version, so called because it was translated into the Greek by seventy?actually seventy-two?translators. These prized manuscripts are: first, the Vatican manuscript, the oldest of them all, which once belonged to a Greek priest, Bessarion, assigned by many scholars to 325 A. D. This has been kept with jealous care in the Vatican for five hundred years. A complete copy of it was not given to the world until 1866, when Doctor Tischendorf, a German scholar who had made many futile attempts to study the manuscript, was allowed to publish a copy in the common Greek type, thus giving this buried treasure to the world.
The second of these treasured manuscripts is called the Alexandrine. It was found in Egypt and may now be seen in the British Museum. It was brought from Alexandria in 1628 by the Patriarch of Constantinople and presented to Charles I. It is supposed to have been copied by Thecla, a Christian lady of noble birth, in the fourth century A. D. Unlike the Vatican manuscript, which is in one huge volume, the Alexandrine is in four volumes, three of the Old Testament and one of the New Testament.
The third and the most interesting of these three important manuscripts is known as the Sinaitic. The story of its recovery is a veritable romance. The hero of the story is the German scholar who published the Vatican manuscript. In 1844, Doctor Tischendorf was traveling in the Orient in search of ancient documents. He visited the Convent of Saint Catherine at the foot of Mount Sinai, and while he was in the convent library, he noticed a basket filled with old parchments, apparently left there to be used as fire kindling. He began looking them over, and found, to his great delight, that they were sheets of a very ancient copy of the Septuagint. He gained permission to take forty sheets, but when he expressed his joy over the privilege, he was denied any more. He became persistent in his request, but the monks grew stubborn in their refusal. As soon as it was learned in England that the German scholar had made an important discovery, the English government sent out expert searchers for the lost documents. They were unsuccessful in their quest. The German doctor was persistent in his efforts, and in 1853 returned again to the East. He could find, however, no trace of the desired manuscript. Nevertheless, he did not give up, but went again in 1859 to the convent in the desert. Still his efforts seemed unavailing, and he was about to go home once more disappointed. Then, the evening before his departure, the steward of the monastery invited him into his cell. When they were alone the monk said: "I, too, sometimes read a copy of the book you seek." To the scholar's amazement and delight the monk placed in his hands the precious parchment. He found not only the fragments he had seen in the wastebasket fifteen years before, but other parts of the Old Testament and the whole of the New Testament as well. He restrained his eagerness and joy this time and was allowed to take the treasure to his own room. Once there, he literally danced for joy. He set to work copying, working on and on through the night. Later, after much negotiation, the manuscript was deposited in the library of St. Petersburg, and Doctor Tischendorf with his assistants, was allowed to make an edition of it in facsimile. The Emperor of Russia in 1863 sent copies of it to the great libraries throughout the Christian world.
Some of the Outstanding Versions of the Bible
The Bible has been translated into 450 languages and dialects, the two principal ancient versions being the Greek Septuagint, already mentioned, and the Latin Vulgate. The first is important as the oldest existing in any language. It had marked influence on the language and style of the New Testament, being largely used in the time of Christ in Egypt where it originated as well as in the Roman provinces and Palestine. Quotations from the Old Testament found in the New Testament are more frequently taken from this version than from the Hebrew version. This indicates that Jesus and His disciples must have been familiar with it.
According to Jewish records, the Septuagint came into being in this manner: Ptolemy Philadelphus, ruler in Egypt 285-247 B. C., requested the high priest of Jerusalem to send him seventy-two chosen men with a copy of the Jewish law, that it might be translated into Greek and deposited in the royal library at Alexandria. The copy of the law which they took with them was on parchment in letters of gold. These scholars were highly honored by the king, and were lodged in a magnificent palace on an island in the harbor of Alexandria during the seventy-two days required for their task. According to the legend, they were shut up in separate cells and had no communication with each other; yet their work was identical. For this reason it was accepted as inspired. This seems, however, to be disproved by the notable inequality of parts of the version which would indicate that the document was produced at different times by different scholars.
The Latin version, known as the Vulgate, is of special importance to us since it has greatly influenced the English Bibles. As the early English Bibles were translated from the Vulgate, much of the strength and beauty of the Latin style was retained by the translators. Vulgate means common or current. The Vulgate was produced by Pope Damasus who required the great scholar St. Jerome to prepare it in the fourth century A. D. because the various versions of the Latin Bible had become corrupted. It was completed in 405 A. D. and gradually made its way into favor. Finally, about two hundred years after the death of the translator, it became the universally recognized version of the church, and was accepted in 1546 as the authorized version of the Roman Catholic Church, remaining so to the present day.
The Bible was not translated into English all at once. Caedmon, in 670, sang songs of the creation, the exodus, and the story of the Gospel. Bede was the next translator, and he was followed by King Alfred the Great. The story of the work of each is very interesting. Wycliffe's Bible, published in 1383, is recognized as the first great monument of English literature. It has influenced all succeeding translations. Wycliffe was followed by Tyndale, who, because of his efforts to put the Bible into the hands of the common people, was persecuted, forced to flee from his country, and, finally, in 1536 put to death. From 1525 to the present there have been many English versions, the Authorized Version, or King James' translation, being the most important since no other English version can compare with it in the soundness of its scholarship, its breadth of spirit, and beauty of diction. The Revised Version was published in 1885. It is superior to the King James' Version in correctness of text and exactness and clearness of translation, but cannot rival the older book in beauty of style. Since ours is a study of the Bible as literature, the King James' Version is significant.
Study Helps
1. Tell the story of Caedmon's inspired singing of Biblical material. (Found in most histories of English Literature?Long, Miller, etc.)
2. Give a brief sketch of the life and work of Bede, explaining why he is called the father of English learning. (See histories of English literature.)
3. Enumerate the contributions of King Alfred to the English people.
4. Give a sketch of the life and work of Tyndale, emphasizing his work on the Bible which led to his martyrdom.
5. Describe the Modern Readers' Bible edited by Moulton or The Bible Designed to Be Read as Living Literature by Bates, and point out why these will be significant in this course.
References
Moulton, Dr. R. G., Modern Readers' Bible. (Notes) Armstrong, R. A., How To Know the Bible. McClure, James, G. K., The Supreme Book of Mankind. Lewis, F. Grant, How the Bible Grew. Hunting, H. B., The Story of Our Bible. Smyth, Peterson, How We Got Our Bible. McComb, Samuel, The Making of the English Bible.

Social Science
NO social science lesson is printed in this issue of the Magazine, as no lesson for this department is planned for the month of December, due to the holiday season.

General Presidents of Relief Society
NO lesson for this department is printed in this issue of the Magazine, as the General Board does not require that a meeting be held on Tuesday, December 22, due to the holiday season.

MORMON HANDICRAFT Gift Shop... West South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah
Rare Handmade Gifts QUALITY ONLY HANDS CAN PRODUCE
GENUINE WATER-COLOR PICTURES?APRONS THAT ARE DIFFERENT?UNIQUE PIONEER DOLLS?HAND-KNIT SWEATERS?BEAUTIFUL QUILTS?UNUSUAL ARTICLES IN FELT?RUGS, AND MANY OTHER LOVELY GIFTS
Sponsored by RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Temple and Burial Clothing
Temple and Other Burial Clothing For Men and Women
Express and Postal Charges Prepaid
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD 20 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City

In PRIVATE INDUSTRY or in GOVERNMENT OFFICES?you can serve better if you have been trained professionally for the job.
Ask for our "Bulletin of Information"