[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15 & 24, 1899. | Author: Unknown]

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15 & 24, 1899.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS.
	Hon. Franklin D. Richards, president of
the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and
Historian of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, departed this life just
after midnight, Saturday, December 9,
1899. After a lingering illness of some
weeks, he succumbed to the inevitable, and
finally fell into a peaceful slumber and in
reality never tasted death.
	Not only does his family mourn for him,
but all Israel mourns sincerely the loss of
this great leader, one of the veterans of the
Church, who has “borne the heat and burden
of the day” lo, these many years, who has
labored unceasingly and unfalteringly for
Zion. But he has entered into light and
has, no doubt, met with his co-workers in
the Quorum of the Apostles, who had pre-
ceded him, and is with the martyred Prophet
and Patriarch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith.
The Saints do not mourn for him, but only
for the loss to those here, who miss his
ministrations and labors in the Church. We
know his life, his labors, his integrity to
the truth, entitle him to all the blessings
and privileges of the celestial world—he
has passed from death into life; therefore,
there is no need to mourn except for his
presence here, and, no doubt, he was weary
with his multifarious labors and his many
years of faithful service.
	President Richards possessed a noble,
tender, affectionate and sympathetic nature
and a kindly disposition. He was refined
and sensitive in a marked degree, affable
and courteous in manner, and singularly
gifted in conversation. He had a fund of
information on a great diversity of subjects,
and a wonderful flow of language. He
was an eloquent public speaker, always de-
lighting his audience, and was greatly gifted
in calling upon the Lord in prayer.
	His labors have been so diversified, he
has filled so many important places and
accomplished so much real work as a mis-
sionary, a judge, a legislator, a presiding
officer and leader in many capacities, that it
would be impossible in our little paper to
do even scant justice to his life-work; but
as a friend and advocate of the woman’s
cause, equality of rights and woman’s pub-
lic, work in the Church, the women of Zion
had no more staunch supporter. The Relief
Society depended in a great measure upon
President Richards for advice and counsel.
He always attended their conferences when

[Column 2]
it was possible for him to do so, and his in-
structions were ever timely and inspira-
tional.
	But the faithful servants and handmaidens
of God who helped lay the foundation of
the Church here upon the earth in this dis-
pensation, one after another are passing
away, gathering home:
“They are gathering homeward from every land
	One by one,
As their weary feet touch the shining sand,
	One by one.
Their brows are enclosed in a golden crown,
Their travel-stained garments are all laid down,
And clothed in white garments they rest on the mead,
Where the Lamb of God doth His chosen lead
	One by one.
We, too, shall come to the river’s side
	One by one,
We are nearer its waters each eventide
	One by one.
We can hear the noise and dash of the stream,
Now and again thro’ our life’s deep dream;
Sometimes the floods all the banks overflow;
Sometimes in ripples and small waves go,
	One by one.
Jesus, Redeemer, we look unto Thee,
	One by one
We lift up our voices triumphantly,
	One by one.
The waves of the river are dark and cold,
We know not the place where our feet may hold;
Thou, who didst pass through in deep midnight,
Strengthen us, send us the staff and light
	One by one."
	Franklin Dewey Richards, like many of
the leading men and women of the
Church, comes of the New Eng-
land Puritan stoc[-]; he was born in
Richmond, Berkshire Co, Massachusetts,
April 2, 1821. His parents were Phinheas
Richards and Wealthy Dewey Richards.
They were Congregationalists, and their
children were trained up in piety, according
to the Puritan principles and customs of
that day; trained in honesty, industry
sobriety, virtue, integrity and uprightness,
and to strictly observe the Sabbath day.
	As a boy Brother Richards was a diligent
student, and attended Sunday School regu-
larly and was early impressed with religious
views, but differed in his scriptural ideas
from those of most people with whom he
was associated, and, therefore, declined a
special offer made to him to study for the
ministry in a leading New England college.
The Lord had something better for him, as
his after life has proven. Elders Brigham
and Joseph Young carried the Gospel to his
native town in the summer of 1836, and
left the Book of Mormon in the Richards
family.
	Elder Franklin D. Richards became
acquainted with the family of Isaac Snyder
while preaching the Gospel as a mission-
ary in Northern Indiana, and subsequently,
Dec. 18, 1842, married Miss Jane Snyder,
the youngest daughter of Brother and Sister
Snyder, at Nauvoo, Illinois, whither the
family had previously gathered.
	Elder Richards left Nauvoo in 1843 with
Brigham Young, president of the Twelve
Apostles, to preach the Gospel in the Atlan-
tic States, expecting, too, to sail for Europe;
but before sailing they heard of the dread-
ful tragedy, the martyrdom of the Prophet
and Patriarch, and returned to Nauvoo.
	Elder Richards traveled in 1845 among
the Saints in Michigan, and gathered dona-
tions for the Nauvoo Temple. When the
exodus came he committed his family to
the Great Creator’s care, after fitting them
out with a team and wagon, and the few
necessaries he could supply, and again
started on a mission to England. Elder F.
D. Richards and his brother, Samuel W.,

[Column 3]
accompanied Apostle Parley P. Pratt upon
this mission. Previous to sailing from New
York, Sep. 22, 1846, word reached Elder
Richards that his wife had borne a son, and
that the babe had only lived one hour.
They reached Liverpool October 14, and
there Elder Richards filled several very re-
sponsible positions in the British mission,
lab[-]ring faithfully among the people and in
the office at Liverpool.
	In February, 1848, he was appointed to
take charge of a large company of Saints
who were coming to the Rocky mountains.
Before reaching home he heard of the death
of his little daughter, Wealthy, who had
been born in Nauvoo. This little one left
his wife lonely and heart-broken. His
brother, Joseph William, a member of the
Mormon Battalion, had also died during his
absence upon this mission.
	Elder Richards and family reached Salt
Lake valley October 19, 1848, enduring
many hardships on the journey. Sister
Richards was very sick the entire way,
much of the time it seemed as though she
could not live to reach her destination.
	On the 12th of February, 1849, Elder
Richards was ordained an Apostle in the
Quorum of the Twelve. In October of the
same year he was called to go on another
mission to England with Apostles John
Taylor, who was going to France, and
Lorenzo and Erastus Snow, to Scandinavia.
During his mission in Great Britain at this
time he filled the office of president (while
Orson Pratt went to America on business)
and edited the Millennial Star and began
the establishment of the Perpetual Emigra-
tion Fund.
	In 1851, when Apostle Pratt was called
home, Franklin D. Richards was installed
as president of the European mission. Dur-
ing the time he was presiding he revised
and enlarged the L. D. S. Hymn Book, and
published an edition of 25,000 copies,
prepared the pamphlet The Pearl of Great
Price, sterotyped the Book of Mormon, and
arranged for sterotyping the Doctrine
and Covenants, issued a new edition of the
Voice of Warning, by P. P. Pratt, and
made the Millennial Star a weekly instead
of a semi-monthly periodical, and performed
various other important labors in connec-
tion with his brethren in the mission. He
returned from this mission in 1852, arriving
in the valley August 20. He remained at
home less than two years, participated in
various public affairs—legislative, military,
civil and Ecclesiastical—and early in 1854
set off again for another mission to Europe,
reaching Liverpool June 4, 1854. It was
while on this mission, in 1855, he founded
42 Islington, which place has been the
Saints’ headquarters ever since.
	In October, 1855, the original Saxon
mission was established in Dresden under
the personal direction of President Richards.
It was also within his province to direct the
branches in the East Indies, Africa, Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and other parts of the
world. Among other literary labors per-
formed at this period, President Richards
published Sister Eliza R. Snow’s first
volume of poems.
	President Richards returned home early
in the fall of 1856, and was busily engaged
in public duties, building up Zion at home
from that time, until in 1866 he was again
appointed on a mission. He arrived in
Liverpool, September 11, and began visiting
the Conferences in Europe, including Scan-
dinavia and other continental Conferences.
In July, 1867, he was again appointed


[Column 1]
to preside over the European mission.
	After filling this last foreign mission, he
returned home to renew his labors in Zion
with greater zeal and earnestness, if that
were possible. In February, 1869, he was
elected probate Judge of Weber County, and
in May of that year moved to Ogden where
he has ever since resided, though much of
his time has been spent in Salt Lake City,
owing to his Ecclesiastical duties as one of
the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and
he has also been Church Historian ever since
the death of Apostle Orson Pratt. When
the State Historical Society was organized
something over two years ago, Apostle
Richards was elected president. At the
time of President Wilford Woodruff’s de-
cease, when President Lorenzo Snow be-
came president of the Church, Apostle
Richards succeeded to the presidency of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
	In all the official positions to which Presi-
dent Richards has been appointed or elected,
he has been faithful to the trust and mag-
nified his calling. No man in the Church
was, perhaps, more widely known, and he
was universally respected and beloved. He
has gone full of honors and ripe in years to
an eternal inheritance, and his name will
be held in everlasting remembrance unto
the latest generation of those who dwell
upon the earth.
	The funeral services of President F. D.
Richards were held in the Ogden Taber-
nacle on Tuesday, December 12, commenc-
ing about 1:30 p. m. Several car loads of
people from Salt Lake City went to Ogden
to attend the funeral. Presidents L. Snow,
G. Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, Brig-
ham Young and all the other Apostles who
were at home in Utah, several of the presi-
dents of Seventies, and many other breth-
ren, sisters and friends.
	The Tabernacle was beautifully draped in
white, and the lovely floral offerings were
numerous and many of them magnificent.
The Relief Society of Weber Stake presented
a column of exquisite flowers as a token of
their love and respect for President Rich-
ards, who on all occasions had been their
firm friend and counselor, and never failed
to attend their conferences when it was pos-
sible to meet with them. Such tokens of
appreciation are all the friends can give to
express their tenderness and sympathy for
those who mourn; and there is some satisfac-
tion in bestowing a beautiful gift in times
of sorrow.
	The large Tabernacle was filled to over-
flowing and many were unable to gain
admittance. The exercises were conducted
by Bishop Robert McQuarrie, of the Second
Ward. The choir sang that favorite hymn
“O, my Father,” at the opening, and
Apostle F. M. Lyman offered the pray-
er. The choir sang “Nearer my God to
Thee.”
	President L. W. Shirtliff, of the Weber
Stake, was the first speaker, then Bishop
McQuarrie and Hon. D. H. Perry. A
quartette, “The Passing of the Sweetest
Soul,” was beautifully rendered, after
which Apostle Brigham Young, though
much affected, addressed the assembly.
	President Lorenzo Snow in his remarks
alluded to President Richards and himself
having been ordained to the Apostleship on
the same day, and paid a loving and elo-
quent tribute to his labors and his memory,
blest his family and closed by saying: “We
may think we have sustained a great loss,
but let us understand what Brother Richards
himself has gained.”

[Column 2]
	Presidents Cannon and Smith each spoke
a few moments, testifying of the valiant
works of the deceased and the love they
bore him; of his unflinching integrity to the
Gospel, his humility of spirit and meekness,
and blest his family, his sons and his
daughters.
	The choir sang as the closing hymn,
“Farewell all earthly honors,” and
Apostle John Henry Smith pronounced the
benediction.
EMILY DOW PARTRIDGE YOUNG.
	Mrs. Emily Dow Partridge Young, wife
of the late President Brigham Young, and
one of the distinguished heroines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
departed this life, Saturday, December 9,
1899, at 4 o’clock, aged seventy-five years,
nine months and ten days.
	Mrs. Young was born in the town of
Painesville, Geauga county, Ohio, on
February 28, 1824. Her parents were
Edward Partridge and Lydia Clisbee Par-
tridge, and were both of them born in
Massachusetts, but moved to Ohio with
their parents when young people, where
they became acquainted, married and settled
in Painesville. Bishop Edward Partridge,
the father of Mrs. Young, was the first pre
siding Bishop ordained in the Church. He
was baptized December 11, 1830, at Seneca
Falls, New York State, by Joseph Smith,
whither he had gone to see the Prophet.
	Mrs. Young grew to womanhood under
the influence of the Gospel, and has been
faithful and devoted to the work through-
out her whole life, never swerving to the
right nor left. With her the Gospel was
ever uppermost. The purity of the life of
this good woman is and has ever been be-
yond question, yet she has known such
persecution as but few women have ex-
perienced. In Kirtland, in Missouri, in
Nauvoo, everywhere that the Saints have
settled Mrs. Young has been associated
with them and passed through the trials
and tribulations incident to the history of
this people. Her autobiography written
by herself and published in the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, gives some of the most thrilling
instances that have transpired among the
Saints.
	Mrs. Young was gifted intellectually if
she had cultivated her talent for writing,
and could have given us reminiscences of
the experiences of the Saints that would
have been a valuable acquisition to Church
history.
	Mrs. Emily D. Partridge Young was one
of the first women to accept and enter into
the order of plural marriage. She became
the wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith with
the full and free consent of his wife, Emma
Smith. After his death she again entered
into that order and was married to President
Brigham Young, and received her blessings
and all the ordinances of the House of the
Lord in the Temple at Nauvoo, and with
her husband crossed the Mississippi river in
Feb. 1846, at the time of the exodus of the
Saints from Illinois. During that weari-
some journey she experienced many hard-
ships, being in delicate health and travel-
ing with a young babe at that most in-
clement season of the year; but she never
murmured or repined, but bore patiently all
the hardships incident to the journey and
life at Winter Quarters afterwards. The
eldest son of Mrs. Young, born in Nauvoo,
died in this city at the age of seven. He
was named Edward Partridge Young, and

[Column 3]
was a very bright and promising boy. Sis-
ter Young has been the mother of seven
children, Emily Augusta, her eldest daugh-
ter, is the wife of Bishop H. B. Clawson;
Caroline, the second daughter, is the wife
of President George Q. Cannon. Her only
living sun, Prof. Don Carlos Young, resides
at present in Provo and is connected with
the Brigham Young Academy. Miriam is
the wife of Bishop Leonard G. Hardy, and
recently moved to Canada (the only one
absent from the city.) Josephine is the wife
of Dr. A. C. Young. A daughter, Luna,
the youngest child, died when seven
months old. Mrs. Young has over forty
grandchildren, several great grandchildren,
a numerous posterity, and all in the faith of
the Gospel in which she believed and for
which she made great and noble sacrifices.
Mrs. Young was a very retiring, modest-
and reticent woman, but firm in her con-
victions as the everlasting hills.
	Mrs. Young passed away peacefully at
last, although she has suffered with sick-
ness considerably during the last few years.
Her death was the result of general debility
brought on by a kind of nervous prostra-
tion and weakness. She was greatly be-
loved by her own family and also loved and
revered by the family of her late husband,
and the women of the Latter-day Saints
who had the pleasure of her acquaintance.
She died at the residence of her daughter,
Mrs. Clawson, in the Twelfth Ward, though
her own home is in the Second ward.
	Verily it may be said of this saintly
woman, “Her children rise up and call her 
blessed.”
	The funeral services were held in the
Twelfth Ward meeting house and were of a
most interesting character. There were
many floral emblems placed upon the bier,
beautiful designs and loose flowers, fra-
grant with perfume, as was her sweet life
of purity and loveliness. The casket was
pure white and the house was draped with
white; there were no symbols of death and
no feeling of gloom. Tears were shed in
love and sympathy, but only for the separ-
ation from one so well beloved.
	Counselor Wardrop conducted the exercises.
Presidents George Q. Cannon and Joseph
F. Smith were present, and of the Quorum
of the Twelve Apostles, President Brigham
Young, F. M. Lyman, John Henry Smith,
George Teasdale and H. J. Grant.
	The singing was by a quartette of male 
voices, George D. Pyper, H. S. Ensign,
James Dunbar and J. D. Spencer. The
first hymn rendered was “Art thou weary.”
Then an eloquently sympathetic prayer
by Elder Seymour B. Young. The quartette,
“The Savior will comfort you,” was feel-
ingly given.
	President Brigham Young was the first
speaker. He testified to his high regard for
the deceased and spoke of her many virtues.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman followed in a simi-
lar strain, alluding to the sterling character-
istics of the Partridge family.
	President George Q. Cannon dwelt upon
the noble life and many admirable qualities
of Sister Young and of her being a woman
of literary ability, although she had been
backward in exercising herself in this
direction.
	President Joseph F. Smith delivered the
principal discourse, relating many notable
instances and events that had transpired in
the days of the Prophet Joseph. The
speaker seemed filled to overflowing with 
the Holy Spirit.


The closing hymn was “The Night of
Rest,” and the benediction was by Apostle
J. H. Smith.
Sister Young was buried in the city
cemetery, a long line of carriages following
the hearse to the last resting place of the
deceased, where the earthly tabernacle of
the dear departed one was consigned to the
grave, whtch was dedicated by Apostle
Teasdale. And another of the illustrious
heroines of the days of the Prophet Joseph
has gone to meet him on the other side.

So—by small, slow footsteps,
By the daily cross,
By the heart’s unspoken yearning,
By its grief and loss;
So—He brings them home to rest,
With the victors crowned and blest."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HEROINES OF THE REVOLUTION.
	One of the well-known women and
what she endured, was Anna Warner Bailey,
known as Mother Bailey. She witnessed
the massacre of Fort Griswold, walked
three miles to find a wounded uncle, and at
his request to see his wife and child she ran
home, saddled a horse for the feeble mother,
and carried the child herself to see the dy-
ing patriot. In 1813, when the British
threatened to attack New London, she tore
up flannel garments for cartridges. What a
heroic character!
	What did our Revolutionary grandmothers
not do? They were obliged to go into the
fields and work, because there were no
men to be had. The women had to farm,
cook, nurse, fight and protect themselves.
Deborah Sampson, whose story we
completed in our last issue, died in Sharon,
Conn., in 1827, at fifty-seven years of age.
She sustained to the end a brave character,
made a faithful and exemplary wife and
mother, a kind neighbor and friend, and we
will thank her for her part in the war
which helped to set us free, and overlook
the unpleasantness of her adventure.
“True patriots, like true saints, frequently
come out of great tribulations strong men
and women.”
	The women suffered greatly from small-
pox contracted from the British soldiers.
Hannah Cartaret, daughter of Sir George
Cartaret, of New Jersey, was among the
list. She became the wife of Cornelius
Bryant and they had a daughter, Betsy
Bryant, who was called one of the heroic
girls of the Revolution. She is called the
Revolutionary grandmother of our chapter,
for there are two members of the Knicker-
bocker chapter descended from these two
brave women. Many handsome women
and pretty girls were made ugly looking,
and many died of small-pox.
	They knew how sublime a thing it is to
suffer and be strong.
	Mrs. Hannah Caldwell, wife, of the
“Soldier Parson,” of Elizabeth, N. J., was
praying for her enemies that they might be
pardoned, when she was shot. She had an
infant in her arms at the time. She left
nine children, one son, John Edwards, was
afterwards adopted and educated by the
Marquis de LaFayette.
	No pen of historian or poet can tell the
story of the Revolution as it actually
pressed upon the hands and hearts of our
grandfathers and grandmothers. The ex-
ertions and sacrifices made by them are far
beyond computation, and by the blessings
of heaven they achieved a success beyond
their hopes. For more than a hundred
years their posterity has been reaping the

[Column 2]
fruits of their toils, and a vast and growing
Republic is their monument.
	The Revolution not only tried the
courage of our grandfathers, but also of
our grandmothers. “Mrs. Nancy Bundy
with her husband and two children, was
captured at the massacre of Wyoming and
taken to Genesee County where she was
parted from her husband. She had not
been there long before the Indian who
took her prisoner wished her to become his
wife, which she refused, saying, ‘I have
one, it would be unlawful for me to take
another.’ He left her. Shortly after he
returned saying, ‘Now you have me—your
husband is dead,’ to which she replied, I
cannot marry a murderer.’ When he saw
she hated him, he tied her, took her to
Niagara, and sold her for eight dollars.
She never knew what became of her chil-
dren.”—History of Scoharie, on page
336.
	The burden of the war fell very heavily
upon New Jersey; it was the battlefield of
the Revolution. The women of Morris
County were brave, especially so the shrewd
Mrs. Miller, When she heard the British
declare they would triumph, she concen-
trated the Whigs of that region and held
meetings in her own house so as to defeat
the Tories, and cleared them out, showing
her great power. There were many women
like her. Oh, that we could know their
names!
	Anna Kitchell was a fair representative
scorning protection. While her husband
and four brothers were away in the Ameri-
can army, she kept the great pot full of
food for the patriot soldiers, and when asked
why she did not have some protection she
replied: “If the God of battle will not take
care of us we will fare with the rest.” This
large pot held half a barrel of meat and
potatoes, and similar pots were kept filled
in other homes.
