[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: MRS. BARRATT’S PARTY. | Author: E. B. W]

MRS. BARRATT’S PARTY.
	A very pleasant gathering of notable
people of this city was given by Mrs. M.
M. Barratt at her handsome cottage, corner
of North and West Temple, Wednesday,
December 20. The guests were President
Lorenzo Snow and wife, President George
Q. Cannon find wife, President Joseph F.
Smith and wife, President Brigham Young
and wife; Apostles F. M. Lyman and wife,
John Henry Smith and wife, Heber J.
Grant, wife and mother. Anthon H. Lund
and Mathias F. Cowley; President Angus
M. Cannon and wife, Bishop W. B. Preston
and wife and Bishop John R. Winder and
wife, Mrs. B .W. Smith, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Mrs. M. G. Wells, and some others.
	About five o’clock the guests were seated
at tables in the elegant dining room to par-
take of a sumptuous banquet, President
Snow pronounced the blessing. At each
plate was a souvenir bouquet, and the com-
pany was in genial humor, judging from
the lively flow of conversation.
	During the evening attention was called
to the beautiful and rare collection of
very fine pictures, most of them brought
from her home in England. Mr. Sam Bar-
ratt gave us choice musical selections on
the piano, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, at the re-
quest of President Joseph F. Smith and
others, gave an account of the reception
given at Windsor Castle by Queen Victoria
to the International Council and Congress
in London. July 7, on which occasion thir-
teen women from Utah were present.
	The guests enjoyed the visit with Mrs.
Barratt, who is a most gracious and hos-
pitable hostess, and her son, Mr. Samuel
Barratt, made every one feel at home by his
courteous attentions and evident desire to
please. Mrs. Barratt was assisted in re-
ceiving by her cousin, Mrs. Joseph Watson.
	The gathering was in all respects a most
enjoyable one, and to those whose minds
are so closely occupied with the daily
routine of business affairs, such social en-
joyment is a welcome pastime.
E. B. W.


[Column 1]
