[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | December | Issue: 11 | Title: HAWAIIAN ISLANDS. | Author: E. D. N]

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

	Relief Society Conference. Hawaiian
Islands: The morning air at Lanihule on
October 5th was fanned by a variety of
neatly made banners and flags bearing the
inspired expressions of Joseph the Prophet
relative to the labors of the sisters in this
church.
	More than one hundred sisters formed in
line and marched to the meetinghouse fully
enthused with the importance of the event,
viz, their general conference.
	After the usual opening exercises, read-
ing of reports etc., in which twenty dif-
ferent societies were represented; Sister
Noall made a few opening remarks appro-
priate for the occasion. Twelve of the
societies were represented verbally by their
presidents or their representatives. Inter-
spersed between these were songs by the
native sisters and a duet by sisters Laura
Fisher and Phoebe Scholes. Words of in-
struction and encouragement were given by
sisters Alice Harmon and Laura Fisher.
Secretary Ruth Kauhine spoke on the sub-
ject of a testimony of the truth and one of
the aids—Kaluapalaoa spoke on the sub-
ject of the laying on of hands for the heal-
ing of the sick. Sister Lizzie Brown gave
words of counsel. Sister Makanoe read a
letter of condolence containing resolutions
of respect for Sister Maulani Kea, one of
our central officers here, who departed this
life September 25th. Sister Noall spoke of
the object of the society, the duty of its
officers, members etc., referred to those
who were not so zealously engaged in this
work as formerly, and encouraged all to a
renewal of diligence in keeping God’s
commandments.
	The report from twenty societies, (ten
not being represented) shows, members
494, meetings help 333, cash on hand at
date of last report, $167,85, cash received
$208,40, disbursed for charitable purposes

[Column 2]
$143,45, cash on hand $232,80. A few
instructive remarks were made by president
Mathew Noall, and the general and local
officers of the Relief Society were sustain-
ed after which the congregation sang the
hymn “O my Father,” and the benediction
was offered by Sister Libbie Noall.
	The saints in general are not requested
to attend the semi-annual conference as
largely as the annual, this counsel is given
on account of the financial crisis existing
among them, hence the cause of our con-
ference not being as large as usual, but the
same spirit of benevolence so prevalent
among the sisters in religious assemblies
was felt by those present and it was pro-
nounced a success spiritually.
Primary Conference.
	Brighter beamed the sun on the morning
of the 6th as the little folks gathered at the
mission house to prepare to march. Nimble
fingers pinned on badges of red and blue
bearing the words in white letters “Hui
Kamalii” and by 9:30 o’clock more than
one hundred bright happy faces were
turned towards the meeting house. Indeed
it was a brilliant display of colors, and in
looking at the sparkling eyes and intelligent
faces of the little ones, the thought natural-
ly suggests itself. “The Primary will
be the educator of the future Hawaiians
in this church.”
	When seated the children occupied the
entire centre of the house the smaller child-
ren in advance of the older, a large plat-
form was arranged in front of the pulpit,
and covered with Hawaiian matting, on
which the children stood to recite. Meeting
was opened by singing “Open the door
for the children.” prayer was offered by
Kekoa a girl from Honolulu, Singing
“Around the throne of God in heaven.”
Reports were read from the two associations,
Laie and Honolulu, showing that each had
preformed a lively work during the past
term. Both societies when called responded
with an appropriate sentiment. “Two
Little Welcomes” was given by
Nonnie Noall and Leialoha. An address of
welcome by John Wahilani, a little boy of.
Honolulu, was highly commented upon on
account of the spirited manner in which it
was given. Questions were asked on
“Good Behavior” and were promptly ans-
wered by all the children. An A. B. C.
song and recitation was given by Kikila, a
dialogue “When I’m a Man” was rendered
nicely by eleven of the older boys, follow-
ed by singing “O my Father” in native; a
dialogue “Pray without ceasing” translated
in native, was given by Honolulu children,
a song by Iva and Hattie Kekuku, was
rendered nicely. Several other dialogues
were translated on the subject of “Meeting
day” “Sabbath” “Smoking” etc., which
seem to have much more effect on the minds
of the children than when rendered in the
English language. The Lord’s prayer was
sung by a number of little girls in a kneel-
ing attitude. The Ten Commandments
were recited by Ahl a Chinese boy. Dia-
logue on “Obedience” by Tillie Brown
Vera and Nonnie Noall. Original song by
the Honolulu children, many other exer-
cises such as dialogues, recitations, bible
verses etc., were given, but one of the most
instructive and pleasing features to both
parents and children were the Bible stories
prepared in native and which were credit-
ably rendered by the children. The follow-
ing are a few of the subjects of the stories,

[Column 3]
"Ruth and Naomi" Jonah sent to Nineveh"
“Sowing good seeds” “Daniel in the Lions
den” “Children of Israel led by Moses”
“Children of Israel led by Joshua’’ “Nephi
obtaining the plates” “Christ blessing little
children” “Josiah King of Judah” etc.
	The Honolulu children sang “O birdie
I am tired now." Remarks of encourage-
ment were made and the general and local
officers were sustained. The children sang
“Dare to do right” and prayer was offered
by a little girl Julia. Thus closed the
largest and most enjoyable conference yet
held among the children of these Islands
and all present felt to rejoice in the hope of
Israel and ma[--] expressions of satisfaction
were made concerning the progress of the
little folks.
The Fair.
	The doors of the fair at Lanihuli were
thrown open and all were invited to view
the hand-work of the children. A splendid
display met the eye, and praise reflected
upon all who had taken part, and the neat-
ness in workmanship was commendable, a
few of the novel designed quilts which the
native sisters are so expert in making added
much to the exhibit.
	Although in some respects different in
class of work the quality and variety would
compare very favorably, with those more
accustomed to this kind of work. The
proceeds which were received from entrance
fees, have aided materially in obtaining
books for the primary work and we are now
prepared to do more good than we other-
wise could have done through lack of
material to work with.
E. D. N.

