Go lden Days Annie Atkin Tanner These are the golden days, With stubble standing in the resting fields, Which earlier were filled with weighted sheaves. It is the time when nature's golden banners Sway gently on the silver aspen trees. These are the golden days, When golden sunsets light the evening sky, And goldenrods push proudly up through minted lane, Where only yesterday wild roses bloomed, And washed pink faces in the May-day rain. These are the mellow days, When sunflowers wave a last farewell To travelers along the homeward highway, And black-eyed Susans lean their pretty heads, On fences old and gray. These are the golden days, When night comes early and the harvest moon Beams down on happy children playing. It is the time when stars along the Milky Way Seem brighter as earth whispers, "These are the golden days." She Key to Compatible Color Schemes Gs Careful Selection Marian Cornwall ICTURE in vour mind's eye the atmosphere of these colors — cool, calm, restful grotto blue, emerald green, iceberg blue; warm, vivid, exciting hot pink, firehouse red, wild poppy, "'vistaful" canyon beige, horizon blue, Mediterranean pink, Nile green; fragrant spice brown; regal royal blue, and purple — beautiful colors surrounding us! And today we can capture the delight of color in our homes. Intense true color need not fade. Delicate, fragile tints are scrubbable. Colors that harmonize are readily available because manufacturers coordinate their colors and give us a wide variety of choice. But herein lies the key to the magic ingredient that makes your home individually yours. That key is selection. Many suggestions and ideas, even formulas for color schemes, are evident from time to time, and all have some merit. Often, however, strict adherence to any mechanized scheme or the following too closely of any current trend results in a "packaged" look, lacking in individuality. Currently popular is the trend toward beige carpet, off-white walls, off-white textured draperies, and walnut Scandinavian furniture with bright-colored upholstery. Accessories are often sake cups or colored glass with splashes of abstract art on the walls. This formula is very attractive, but is becoming so common that everyone's decorating scheme looks alike. A few years back the scheme that became common was the Sherwood green wall, the rose-colored sculptured leaf pattern carpet, beautiful printed floral drapery, and the Matelasse covered sofa. Each one of these individual items in the two schemes listed above is good in and of itself and in other combinations than those mentioned above. Certainly, Scandinavian walnut furniture is here to stay and has a place in a variety of modern settings. There was surely nothing wrong with the pale yellow nylon Matelasse that I saw the other day, although it was not accompanied by the usual leaf pattern carpet and floral drapery. Most of the furnishings available on the market today can be and are used — but must be used with discretion and imagination. O not abandon the old, simply because the new is different. Remember that today's designers are trying to contribute ideas to solve basic functions, and the resulting design may be appropriate to your taste, but again it may not. Have you, for instance, in the last few years, looked for a lamp table? Most of the contemporary tables you will see will be very low because the arms of most modern chairs are Miss Cornwall planned the decorating of the Relief Society Building and selected the furnishings and appointments.