AUTUMN ON THE PLAINS Autumn Tloon Maude Rubin The pond is shrunken, its reed-pipes dry, Its blackbird chorus still. The field is stubble, ankle high, And over the bread-loaf hill The sun hangs ripe as a yellow pear. The breath of timothy rides the air From high in its steep-roofed haymow where, Moveless, the weathercock's metal stare Surveys this bronze tranquility. One velvet bee Goes bumbling by, Dressed for some fall fiesta, Stirring the indolent gold of noon Where pond and sun and dragonfly soon Will drowse in a brief siesta. A Golden, Golden Wedding Day Linnie Fisher Robinson wedding was not more beautiful ot lovely than many many others, although it held a day of wonderful surprises and never-to-be-forgotten moments — but these things are expected after fifty years of happily wedded life, and especially so when there are many children and grandchildren. 'Then, of course, there were numerous friends and crowds of relatives — all well-wishers. My parents' home and grounds were full of people who came and went all day and far into the evening. These things are present at most golden weddings, but there was one thing that was probably different, and it is of that I write. Mother had been a Primary teachcr for some forty odd years. She had held other positions in the ward and stake. She had been called with father to do special missionary work in a small neighboring town, but she had never stopped teaching Primary. 'There were boys from Trekker age on up in the ward and surrounding wards who loved mother and whose children loved her because mother dearly loved them. Many honors came to her through this source. As an example, I remember when she was nearing seventy her name was put on the queen contest list by the Aaronic Priesthood for a fund-raising carnival for their ward house. Mother won against a bevy of lovelies, and when we went to see her crowned queen, we couldn't get within a block of the grounds. Her golden wedding day was in hv certain that mother's golden late April, and on that particular daY the hills above the town were covered with daffodils. Because they are gold in color, I suppose the children thought they would be appropriate for a golden wedding. Many fine plants and exquisite bouquets had been brought to honor mother and father that day, so much so that all places that could be gracefully used had been used when the daffodils began to arrive. At first we put the bouquets in tall glass tumblers in the large and deep window sills in mother's living room, dining room, and study. When everything was filled we put them in mother's tin milk pans that she had not used for years. We put the bunches together until the pans were filled, and then we put the pans on the front porches until they were filled, and then we began to look for other containers for the back hall. But the gold rubbed off on all of us, and the words of the poet Wordsworth lived for us — "ten thousand. Daffodils... Flash upon the inward eye." The wonder in mother's face at the honor given warmed our hearts and father's, too, and remains ours to keep. April never comes nor goes that it does not bring to me the almost incredible happenings of that day. I recall, too, the children who brought the flowers and the shy pleased pride in their faces as they handed them to us at the door and then insisted on leaving immediately, never dreaming of the magnitude and permanence of the thing they did.