Visiting leacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 35 — "Remember in All Things the Poor and the Needy, the Sick and the Afflicted" (D & C 52:40). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, December 5, 1961 Objective: UR great Relief Society organization was founded on the divine concept of charity. At the second meeting of Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith said that the "object [of the society] is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan... [the sisters] will pour in oil... To the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widows heart to rejoice" (D. H. C. IV:567). It was on the basis of this instruction that Relief Society adopted as its slogan "Charity Never Faileth." The organization itself is living up to its instruction and heritage, but are we as individuals known for our "acts of benevolence and kindness'? Does this message, as contained in The Doctrine and Covenants 52:40, apply to us? Genuine charity of the type the Lord expects of us, must be completely unselfish. We must give of ourselves and of our substance in To describe the nature of genuine charity. Love, with no thought of worldly recompense. 'The good we do must be done for the love of doing it, with only the welfare of others in mind. Jesus gave us the pattern for true charity when he said "... When thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee... Let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth" (Mt. 6:2-3). One of the beautiful stories in literature which dramatizes the nature of sincere charity, is that told by Henry Van Dyke in "The Mansion." 'This is the story of John Weightman who, according to his own definition, was a "self-made" man of high principles who _patterned his life according to approved tules. He gave generously of his wealth to those in need, always making sure that his gifts were easily identified and would bring him the best in return. One Christmas Eve, as he read the scripture "Lay not up for yourself treasures upon earth," he drifted into sleep. Soon he found LESSON DEPARTMENT himself in a strange land. Here he was with a small group of people seeking their homes in this celestial city. The material for these mansions consisted of all the good deeds done while the individuals were upon the earth, the comfort they brought, the strength and love they had bestowed upon the suffering. Each mansion differed in size and shape according to the amount of material sent. Finally, the group came to a tiny hut, built of scraps and discarded fragments of other buildings. When John Weightman was told this was his mansion, he asked how it could be that such a pitifully small house had been built for him, when all his life he had done good. 'To which the wise gatekeeper replied that all of those good deeds were carefully recorded on earth where they would add to the 629 man's credit. He had received his reward on earth. Then the gatekeeper asked, "Would you be paid twice?" Certainly, to perform our charity with no thought of reward or approbation here is the key to genuine and effective giving. None of us should expect to be rewarded twice. Moreover, we are mistaken if we assume that only those who have substantial possessions can be charitable, for we can give genuinely of ourselves, regardless of the size or nature of our gifts. 'The important thing is our attitude. We can supply much with our hearts of what we lack in our hands. At this Christmastime and throughout our lives, let us practice genuine charity by letting unselfishness, "kindness, charity and love' crown our works.