Wind-Lightened Bough Mabel Law Atkinson Spring, and the slumbrous I was stirred — The tree in full-bloom flower Spiralling, dancing petals down, Awoke the fruit-bud hour. Summer, fulfilling, sang in me — Heavily laden, the bough — Ripened, mature for giving, was I. (What of the fruitage now? ) Muted my song in the wind's wild shrill — Lightened the bough and tossed: Only one withering apple clings — Storm-maimed, I wait the frost. Mendicant-forlorn, the tree — Poignantly sweet my sorrow, If in the ripened wind-reaped fruit Is seed for tomorrow. Llocturne Elsie McKinnon Strachan You, with the midnight grin, Mommy's not coming in. Sleep, darling, sleep! You, in your boudoir pink— Gabby as a bobolink, Mommy has brought you a drink, Sleep, darling, sleep! Pillow your tousled head Down near your rumpled spread— New words will keep! Mommy has gone to bed. Sleep, darling... Sleep. Weed Seeds Celia Luce ACH year I work to keep the weeds out of my garden, but each year they come up again to plague me. It seems hard to tell where all the weed seeds come from. I like to blame someone else for them. I like to think they floated down the irrigation ditch or were blown in from a vacant lot. If I am honest with myself, I must admit that most of the seeds came from weeds grown in my garden. A_ few dandelion and wild lettuce seeds do ride into my garden on the wind. A few seeds float down the irrigation ditch. But, if I look in the far corners of my garden, I find plenty of weeds growing seeds. I also like to think that I am not responsible for my troubles. I just have bad luck. Someone else is responsible. But, if I am honest, I must take most of the responsibility. Perhaps I am ill be cause I didn't follow the rules of health. The ill will I get from others may be the Tesult of my own thoughtlessness or carelessness. I may lack friends because I am too lazy to make friends. Perhaps I am just making little troubles into big ones. If I follow carefully the plan for life laid out by God, I will find that many of my troubles could be avoided. And I will find the help needed to bear the others and grow through them. > $4