RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Social Service (Fourth Week in February)
MEASURING MENTAL ABILITY
LESSON V
This topic calls for the achievement of a series of aims:
1. Understanding the recent scientific methods of measuring intelligence.
2. Developing skill in interpreting the facts indicated by such measurements.
3. Removing prejudice against mental tests as a device in child care.
4. Thinking of constructive uses of these tests in controlling the behavior of children.
Suggestions for Procedure. The use of an expert lecturer in the class will help achieve aims 1 and 2. Aims 3 and 4 can be achieved only if the class members really study the problem for themselves. The following procedure is suggested:
1. From the supplementary material given below give the class a preview on the history, purpose, use, and value of the tests. If possible get samples of various tests to show the class.
2. Have the class read carefully the material assigned in the Reading Guide.
3. Have class members answer each of the questions given in the reading guide. Supplementary material can be given by the class leader. The teacher can specifically refer to the cautions given on page 62 of "White House Conference. 1930."
4. By class study of the supplementary material given on the present uses of mental tests reach a conclusion regarding their value and the attitude that parents should take toward them.
5. Make special assignments for topical reports on the use of mental tests in locating children with special abilities or handicaps and in planning educational programs for such children. The material for this is found in "White House Conference 1930," pages 242-245; 308-316.
Reading Guide for Class Members. Growth pages 19-22.
1. Mental life in its control of conduct is made up of many elements among which are the following: Power to observe well, power to see relationships, quickness in memorizing, permanence of memory, ability to use words and symbols correctly, initiative, adaptation to persons, emotional expressions, special abilities in the fine arts, mechanical tendencies. Underline those that are measured in a satisfactory way by mental tests.
2. Does the author favor a plan of classifying pupils homogeneously in school on the basis of a score on a mental test or in using the test as one element for placing pupils in regular groups?
3. Just what is the problem raised by a child who is doing indifferent work in school but is shown by the tests to be bright?
4. Are problems of conduct in home or school related to brightness and dullness or to the lack of proper treatment based on an understanding of the child's intellectual status?
5. Relate the two points discussed at the tops of page 20 to the common parental desire to have their children follow the same course or get the same school marks as older brothers or sisters or the children of neighbors or friends.
6. Note carefully that mental tests have not caused people to pass judgment on the mental ability of others but have attempted to substitute a measuring device for guesses and opinions based on unrelated items such as appearance, or physical peculiarities.
7. Mental age is a measure of (present ability) (rate of mental growth). Learn which one is correct. Intelligence quotient, I. Q., is a measure of (present ability) (rate of mental growth). Mark the correct one. If pupils are classified in school on the basis of mental tests it will be according to (M. A.) (I. Q.) Parents would map out a future educational program for their children on the basis of a known (M. A.) (I. Q.)
8. Intelligence tests are technical devices for measuring complex human traits. They are reliable only if administered, scored, and the results interpreted by trained workers. Note especially the caution that the test results do not represent a "final verdict" on the future of the child but is a point from which a plan for a happy useful life can be more accurately planned.
Supplementary Material. History of Intelligence Testing. The story of the development of mental tests is one of the application of a newly developing science to a practical social problem?the detection and the treatment of defectives. The modern period in the solution of this difficulty began about the middle of the nineteenth century. In 1846 Seguin, a French scholar published a book entitled: "Traitement moral, hygiene et education des idiots." Johnson calls this "The emancipation proclamation for the fettered soul of the idiot." (Johnson, G. E. Contributions to the Psychology and Pedagogy of Feebleminded Children: Pedagogical Seminary, Vol. III, No. 2, pp 246-301). Special classes for slower children seem to have begun in Halle, Germany, in 1859. The first American psychological clinic was organized by Whitmer in the University of Pennsylvania in 1896. In America the work was more closely associated with the whole idea of individual differences and their measurement. Throughout the writings of psychologists during this half a century there are constant pleas for tests and for norms for comparison. The actual making of tests center around the work of Binet working in the Laboratory of: Physiological Psychology at the Sorbonne in Paris. His writings were voluminous leading to an article published in 1898 on "Measurement in Individual Psychology." He expressed in this the fundamental thought that has been evident in all later developments that the idea is not to measure in a definite physical sense but to classify individuals with reference to others. His first scale appeared in 1905. In 1908 he published an article entitled "The Development of Intelligence in Children." In this was presented a more elaborate statement of a measuring scale for the various ages of children. The idea of "Mental Age" was introduced with this 1908 scale. A further revision was made in 1911, the year of Binet's death. The first use in America was in the Training School for Feebleminded Children at Vineland, New Jersey. Here Goddard used the Binet scale in 1908, and later worked out an American adaptation of it. Terman in Stanford University worked out a tentative revision of the Binet Scale in 1910-11. In 1916 appeared the Stanford Revision 754 the Binet-Simon Scale. With this scale the use of the I. Q. (intelligence quotient) was introduced. This test still is the basic standard test for measuring the intelligence of individuals. Other tests have been made to meet special needs of special defectives and children who cannot read or use the English language. In recent years the movement for the development of group tests for use in schools has grown very rapidly. A list of some of these tests is given below. Nature of the Tests: The tests are supposed to measure ability. The items should therefore be equally novel to all who take the tests. This makes the tests appear peculiar to a person who first sees them. The items used in the tests must be such as actually measure intellectual power. This measuring of what the test is planned to measure is called its validity. This is usually expressed as a coefficient. The validity of a test is determined by correlating people's success in the test with their success, in school work or other known achievements that are essentially intellectual in nature. Intelligence is difficult to define or analyze. In its expression it indicates an ability to respond to symbols, and abstract difficulties. Most of the intelligence tests in use measure this expression of intelligence. Certain performance tests and tests involving pictures measure the intellectual power to adjust: to concrete problems involving reactions to things. The tests do not seem to measure the power to handle people well?social intelligence. Much of the common prejudice against the tests is due to people reading into the results a measurement of these traits that are not really indicated by the tests themselves. The tests differ very much. Some of them RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE include a wide variety of activities such as are found in the Stanford Revision of the Binet Tests, each part of which is to be given by the operator as an instruction to the child being tested, or in the group tests which include exercises with opposites, analogies, best reasons, disarranged sentences, proverbs, number work, unusual directions, sentence completion, information and word knowledge tests, etc. Some of the tests use pictures and other non-language exercises. Some of the tests are very simple such as the McCall Multi-Mental Scale which has just one page of word? relationship exercises. 'Another element to consider in studying the tests is known as reliability. The good tests will give the same results each time they are used. Different forms of the same test are used. The data show that the makers of the tests have achieved a high degree of efficiency in the reliability of the tests. The following table gives some information regarding a few of the tests.. The price given is for a sample set which the class leaders may desire to purchase. If intelligence tests are used in the schools, the class leaders may get a sample from the head 'of the schools. The sample should be used to illustrate to the class the form of the tests. (See table on opposite page. ) Purpose and Uses of the Tests. The purpose of the tests of intelligence is to get some facts not otherwise obtainable about the child's mental power. The results of the test put the child in terms of general intelligence in a position relative to other persons. The uses made of these data will vary. As you learned from the assigned reading the intelligence test result is not a judgment. It is a fact which can be used in forming judgments. The general intelligence CHART level seems to remain quite constant through life. It seems to be influenced somewhat by general environmental conditions but is essentially an index of ability. It is only one of several factors-?health, physical growth, aims or ambition, environment, personality power,? which are to determine the plan of a life for the individual. It seems at the present time to be worth while to apply the test result as a help in solving the following problems: 1. Deciding whether a_ child should enter school. Reading ability and school methods of teaching it are fixed to adjust approximately to a mental age of six. The rigid chronological age of admission might be varied to admit a younger child who is well developed physically and socially and whose mental age is six or to delay the admission of a child six years old chronologically but whose development is slower. 2. Deciding Grade Placement. The intelligence quotient is also sometimes used as a basis of sectioning in a grade in order to vary the program for those of varying degrees of brightness. Formerly the ideal was to permit the children with the higher I. Q. To go through school more quickly. The more recent results indicate that it is better to enrich the program for the brighter children and make modifications for those with a low I. Q. 3. Interpreting learning achievement RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE so that pupils are urged to work up to capacity and not be idle or contented with poor work. 4. Diagnosing children that seem to need special care or assignments to special classes. 5. Giving Educational guidance for the selection of a career, or of schools, or of courses. The Intelligence Quotient or measure of brightness is essential, not as a means of predetermining failure or social inferiority but as a means of directing the child into a worthwhile successful career. Any recent book on Mental Testing will give examples of these. 6. Interpreting special tests in vocational aptitudes and in giving advice in vocational guidance. As a device in child care the use of mental tests can therefore be encouraged. Parents should check carefully to see that scores on intelligence tests do not develop feelings of inferiority and social hopelessness and to see that children of presumably low ability are not denied all of the enrichment and social participation in school which will make their lives significant. As Commissioner Butterfield of Connecticut said to the Department of Superintendence in 1930: "A child might be school dull but bright in terms of caring for chickens, being a good member of his home, loving nature, making friends, or being loyal."