Literature
THE DELIGHT OF GREAT BOOKS
THE ORDEALS OF RICHARD FEVEREL. MEREDITH
THE HISTORY OF A FATHER AND A SON
(Third Week in February)
"All that we hope to do for our children is to teach them to run their lives, not to teach them to allow us to run their lives for them."?Dorothy Canfield.
"The Ordeal of Richard Feverel" by George Meredith, one of England's greater novelists, is a masterpiece. Meredith's chief claim to greatness lies in the fact that his works, poetry and novels, demonstrate the theory that the function of art is to portray not the superficial truths of everyday life but the inner and spiritual truths of humanity.
George Meredith?Biography. Understanding is an obligation we owe to the writer of a great book, as a book when great "is the precious life-blood of a master spirit." Thus every great novel is, in fact, a spiritual autobiography. Because "The Ordeal of Richard Feverel" is peculiarly a record of the inner drama of the early life of George Meredith, we must, therefore, understand the man behind the novel.
George Meredith was born at Portsmouth, England, in 1828, the grandson of Melchisedec Meredith, a naval outfitter with social aspirations. Of Welsh extraction, proud of the blood of Gruffudh in his veins, "the Great Mel" was a dandy, a favorite with the ladies, and a spendthrift. The family seemed to suffer because of their uncertain social position, being not quite "gentry" yet they were superior tradespeople. Augustus Meredith, the father of George, resented the fact that the financial conditions of the tailoring business would not permit of his being trained for a doctor. The mother of George Meredith, Jane Macnamara, was of Irish extraction and a woman of refined tastes. George Meredith, a handsome precocious child, was left motherless at the age of five years. There never existed any sympathy between father and son. After failing in business, Augustus Meredith left Portsmouth, abandoning his son to the trustee of his mother's small fortune. After some years of general schooling the boy was sent to the Moravian School at Neuweid, Germany. This celebrated school attracted pupils from all parts of Western Europe because of its excellent course in education based upon "fullest liberty of thought and worship." Upon his return to England, George was articled to a London Lawyer. Law was distasteful to him, and it was early abandoned for an adventure in journalism as a contributor to the "Monthly Observer." Now George Meredith sets himself to train for his desire, to write poetry. Among the literary associates of this period was Thomas Love Peacock, novelist and poet. A literary friendship with Mary Peacock Nicholls, daughter of the novelist, began. She was the widow of a naval officer, a handsome woman of high spirits and temper, and ten years older than Meredith. The couple married after a hasty courtship, and started a lodging existence. Both were devoted to verse, but Meredith drudged at journalism for a livelihood snatching but little time for his poetry. A volume of "Poems" published in 1851 was ignored by the public, but received favorable comment from Tennyson and Stevenson. The adventure in matrimony was a failure, "a prolonged quarrel with literary interludes." George and Mary Meredith discovered that two highly strung temperaments, each emotional and quick to anger, could not find contentment. The conditions of their married life?debts, lodgings, unappreciated literary efforts?were conducive of tragedy. This ill-considered mating had the inevitable ending, separation. Mrs. Meredith abandoned her husband and five-year-old son, Arthur Gryffydd Meredith. In suffering Meredith, the man, said nothing, but later the spiritual tragedy was recorded in a poem, "Modern Love." Through experience the poet learned the lesson that it is through the suffering of mal-adjustment that man learns the lessons of Nature; that "Body, Brain, and Soul must be harmonized." After his wife's flight, Meredith went to London. The education of his son and his writing were his chief interests. Turning his attention to fiction, he lived with his characters and the ideas he made them illustrate by their actions. "The Ordeal of Richard Feverel" was produced. "By what magic?" asks the commentator. The answer, "By the magic of genius. By the force of a courageous manhood which did not let disaster drive it mad, nor allow the falsehood of one woman to mar the vision." And so Meredith built up out of his experiences a philosophy of life. The object of life, says Meredith, is education: purification of rebellious intemperate youth, humiliation of self-satisfied dogmatic age. The novel, "The Ordeal of Richard Feverel" was the vehicle of this wisdom. The reception of the book was chiefly unfavorable. The "London Times" recognized its greatness, while the "Athenaeum" and other leading journals pronounced it as disagreeable. Meredith felt keenly the unkind reception given to his novel. He went on with "Evan Harrington," an account of his family history and his own personal struggle with false pride, expressing the wisdom "that the accident which shows to youth its real condition with no softening veil is not a cruel thing but a guide to opportunity." Again criticism was unkind, but Meredith never turned back. For twenty-five years he kept on thinking and writing. "The Egoist," "Diana of the Crossways," "Lord Ormont and His Aminta," "Rhoda Fleming" are the more important novels. Hostile criticism continued, and recognition was long delayed. Old age and recognition came together, and George Meredith was permitted to rule the kingdom of English letters. In 1864 Meredith married Marie Vulliamy, of Huguenot extraction, a girl of twenty-four and an excellent musician. This companionship lasted twenty years, and was as happy as the first marriage was wretched. This ideal union was founded on love and equality?the gospel of love Meredith preached in his novels. Arthur, the son of the first marriage, had received from his father almost "Feverel-like" attention up to this time. He was a delicate, sensitive boy of eleven when his father married again. Resenting the change in the family affairs, Arthur became estranged from his father. Later the boy was sent to school in Switzerland. After completing his education, Arthur remained away from home. All aid from home was refused even when suffering from serious lung trouble. This tragedy of pride culminated in Arthur's death in 1890. The last forty years of Meredith's life was spent at Box Hill, Surrey. These years were rich in friendships; among them being W. E. Henley (author of "Invictus"), J. M. Barrie, John Morley, Leslie Stephen, R. B. Haldane, James Sulley. These "Sunday Tramps" often found themselves after tramping the beautiful Surrey country-side at Flint Cottage, Box Hill, especially in later years when George Meredith suffered from paralysis. Meredith was at his best among these friends. A brilliant conversationalist, he delivered to them "his really profound and poetic and humorous thoughts on men and things in a voice of mellowed maturity." The finely molded head often described as Greek with its bright eyes and finely chiseled features lent its charm also. It was with a genial unspoiled spirit, Meredith received the homage of his friends when they came to partake of his wisdom. On his eightieth birthday in 1908, Meredith received the full homage of the world of letters. He died at his home at Box Hill, May 18, 1909, and was buried by his wife in Dorking Cemetery. Meredith has been given the distinction "of being one of the few poets and novelists who claim a body of opinion and belief worthy to be called a 'philosophy'." While this philosophy is to be found in the novels, the best expression is contained in the "Essay on Comedy and the Uses of the Comic Spirit." For Meredith the essence of comedy "is the ability not only to laugh at the foibles of mankind, but first of all to identify yourself with the race before you smile." The generous recognition of our own mistakes will make us alert to the superficialities of life and appreciative of the genuine values. George Meredith began and ended his literary career as a poet, but it was his novels that made him famous. The poetry of Meredith is growing constantly in popularity. It expresses much the same sensitiveness to the beauties of nature and the problems of life that the novels do. As a novelist, Meredith took upon himself the mission to point out the value of neglected obvious things, rather than to display hidden motives. He is analytical of the individual in his relationships: to institutions, to society, to humanity. In this way Meredith brought to the novel a definite type of growth just as did Scott, Hugo and Dickens. Meredith gave to the novel psychological subtlety. Just as Scott delighted in the physical details of location and adventure; similarly, Meredith delighted in the details of intellectual adventures and spiritual conflicts. The modern novel, then, began with Meredith. He was a great and puzzling literary figure, a genius, author of one of the six best novels in the language, "The Egoist." Alton Brunt Summers has delightfully explained Meredith the novelist as follows; "After all the reader is sailing upon the gaily painted boat of fiction, not upon the sober brig of the essayist, nor upon the tall ship of the philosopher. However, the reader must not be diverted by the wise sayings of the captain from remembering that the Meredith craft is bound for the romantic waters of imagined experience and that it floats the simple flag 'true to Nature from the mast'."
The Ordeal of Richard Feverel.? Synopsis. The story is the history of a father and son. The father was Sir Austin Feverel, Baronet, of Raynham Abbey; the son of the baronet was Richard Feverel. The story opens when the father and son are deserted by the wife and mother. Sir Austin plans to devote his life to the education of his only son. The scheme of education for Richard was embodied in "The System," an elaborate document embodying all its author's theories for the education of the human race. By this program Richard is to develop into a model English gentleman, intelligent, frank, fearless, generous, and with a true estimate of his value in the world. Richard, left motherless at the age of five, is a likeable chap, much like other boys and devoted to his father. The household at Raynham Abbey was cluttered with relatives and dependents. Austin Wentworth and Adrian Harley, two nephews of the baronet, and Ripton Thompson, the selected boyhood companion of Richard, have the most important roles in the story. To Adrian, a young intellectual, is entrusted the formal education of Richard. Richard and Ripton behave much as ordinary boys. Their first serious adventure is the burning of the grain ricks of a surly farmer. The burning was the definite plan of Richard for revenge. The farmer had administered a severe whipping to the boy for shooting a pheasant on his land. This was the first indication the father had of the individuality of the son. A very carefully planned program of retribution for the grain-rick burning causes Richard to chafe and rebel inwardly through lack of sympathy with "The System", but he never lost confidence in his father. In Sir Austin's early Journal "The Pilgrim's Scrip" was written: "Between Simple Boyhood and Adolescence?The Blossoming Season?there is one Unselfish Hour, Spiritual Seed-time." Sir Austin took care that good seed should be planted in Richard, and that the most fruitful seed for a youth, namely, Example, should be of a kind to germinate in him the love of every kind of nobleness. "I am only striving to make my son a Christian," he answered them who persisted in expostulating with "The System." "First be virtuous," he told his son, "and then serve your country with your heart and soul." Seed-time passed smoothly. The son loved his father dearly. Next came, "The Magnetic Age, the Age of Violent Attractions, when to hear mention of love is dangerous, and to see it, a communication of the disease." All the members of the household at Raynham Abbey were given detailed instructions as to their behaviour during this very critical period of Richard's life. Sir Austin, meanwhile was searching for a desirable young lady, one fitted by education, instincts, and blood, to meet the need when Richard attained the age of twenty-five. Now Nature takes a hand and brings the young Hero's boat drifting down the river "to the Enchanted Isle where Ferdinand meets Miranda." Richard meets Lucy Desborough, orphan daughter of a poor naval officer and niece of the farmer of the grain-rick episode. What a complication for "The System!" Now four forces are at war; Sir Austin's love for his son, the son's love for his father, Richard's love for Lucy, Lucy's love for Richard. The son and father meet. Speaking from his own bitter experience the father argues the foolishness of young love. Lectures, deliberations, and separations only serve to enhance Richard's desire for Lucy. The love story of Richard and Lucy was beautiful, in fact, it has often been compared with the love of Romeo and Juliet. At last Richard decided to marry Lucy arguing, "If my father loves me he will forgive me for acting against his wishes, and see that it was the only thing to be done." In "The Pilgrim's Scrip" Sir Austin found recorded, "In all cases where two have joined to commit an offense, punish one of the two." The father, the author of "The System" was now on trial. "It was Pride that transformed Sir Austin's system of education into an intolerable ancient regime of parental absolutism." "The System" did not cause the tragedy, neither did love. Pride, the chief enemy of mankind, created the tragedy. Richard took Lucy to the Isle of Wight and returned to London to await word from his father. Sir Austin was silent. Then followed numerous plans and plottings by Lady Blandish and Adrian Harley to bring about the return of the son. While waiting in London, Richard yielded to the wiles of an enchantress and later followed her to Venice. Meanwhile, Sir Austin emerged from his struggle and decided to meet his son. When he arrived in London it was too late. Richard, distracted by his own helplessness, wanders from one reckless adventure to another. His education had not taught him the true way to honor. To Austin Wentworth fell the task of pointing the way. He brings Lucy and the baby to Sir Austin. He finds the wandering Richard in Germany and tells him of his son. All are home. In the coming home Richard finds his manhood. There are confessions to make to his loved ones. Then there is a duel to fight. Then the ordeal of Richard will be over. But not so. The forces of tragedy are not so easily dispelled when Pride has had the helm. Lucy dies, the body and brain crashing through suffering. "There is no greater tragedy on earth than when a mortal man makes himself a god and by that error kills the thing he loves." "We read first of all for the story and gradually we are stirred to think about the ideas that prompted the story?Then we come to understand how wise the book is and how noble is the study of human nature which it contains."
Suggestions for Study. A. Materials
1. The Delight of Great Books ?Erskine.
2. The Ordeal of Richard Feverel?Meredith.
3. The Man Behind the Book ?Van Dyke.
4. Modern English Books of Power?Fitch.
5. Mothers and Children? Canfield.
B. Projects.
1. Selections from Meredith's Poem.
2. Biographical Sketch of Meredith.
3. Comment upon the statement by Erskine, "No parent and his child can share the same approach to life."
4. Music, "Invictus" by W. E. Henley.
C. Method?Class Leader.
1. Read the novel for the story.
2. Read Erskine's discussion carefully.
3. Re-read any part not clear after reading the interpretation.
4. For the class activity tell the story simply.
5. Make the best use of supplementary material available.