[Vol55 | June | Magazine Page 6 | PDF Page 27]

--- PAGE 6 (PDF page 27) ---
like dark things anyhow, Miss Harrow." When they sang he never followed the words. "It's more fun to look up, Miss Harrow." In reading group he raced ahead and could never locate his place when his turn came to read. "I can't wait to find out what happens, Miss Harrow."

Widdy could not wait for anything. Life was an urgent magnet, drawing him eagerly into its dynamic flow. And, with a wistful expectancy, he ran to it unimpeded by trivia such as socks and crayons, words and turns. And now he panted into the doorway, his husky shoulders raised in a huge sigh. "Hey, Miss Harrow, I brought you something." He slammed a bedraggled package into her hands as if passing a stick in a relay. Then he slid, turned, and airplaned around the corner of the door. He caught the jam with his arm just before disappearing and thrust his matted blond head back into the room, smiling so hard his eyes almost closed. "Oh, and listen, Miss Harrow," his voice was out-of-breathy. "I made that so you'd have it to hang on your tree when you go home. It's just like one we used to have that I liked a lot. But it got broke. And . . . ." He was suddenly sober. "And merry Christmas. You sure are a good teacher, Miss Harrow."

He tipped his head pensively, then smiled again and was gone. The clomp and skid down the hall echoed his hurry.

Jenny looked at the box, its tissue clinging perilously to the misshapened container. It was easy enough to open. Inside, resting on a lumpy piece of incongruous cotton, was a tiny bird cage. It had been built of toothpicks, glued tenuously to key rings of three different sizes to create a kind of Japanese lantern. Except for a tiny gold ring at the top, it was painted green, with some of the excess paint oozing at the intersections.

Inside the cage hung a battered little bell, suspended from the gold ring by a wire from a plastic bread wrapper. And glued onto the bell, its wispy feet one glob of goo, was a canary, cut out of a magazine, yellow on one side, a printed ad on the other. Its edges were irregular and it drooped a touch, but its identity was sure.

What a job for an eight-year-old! thought Jenny, especially Widdy! She could picture his stubby fingers working with those toothpicks. How tedious. It must have taken him hours. She rested an elbow on the desk and dangled the cage by its Christ-

[ILLUSTRATION: A line drawing of a decorative bird cage with toothpick construction]

26

January 1968