[Vol55 | July | Magazine Page 7 | PDF Page 32]

--- PAGE 7 (PDF page 32) ---
"A Partridge In A Pear Tree"

guise the unexpected emotion that filled her. "That Widdy," she managed, "he had to make my canary authentic."

Dan Reynolds put his hand on her arm. She could feel its firmness through her wool coat and interlining. He looked hard into her eyes that were now brimming with unashamed tears. He said softly, "You must be terrific—as a teacher. I mean."

Even Jenny's ears pounded with her pulse. The years of being almost happy melted in her glow. The agonizing Christmases of the past fell away in the magic of that moment of acceptance. So what if Roger Dixon had passed her up with his mistletoe in the seventh grade. And David Mace—what if he had left her standing by the fountain and sneaked off to the Christmas assembly with Judy? The echoes of failure ran distant now. "No, I'm not going to the Snow Ball" ... "Yes, Mother, I am chairman, but I haven't a date for the dance" ... "Yes, I'd love to be your bridesmaid" ... "No. I'm not the least bit superstitious about its being three times" ... "Oh, Corinne, a baby in December ... How wonderful!" ... "No, I'm not married yet" ... "Yes, Father, I'll be home for Christmas ... I know, with all the boys gone ..." Then, loud and clear ... "You must be terrific!"

It would never be the same. That elusive "partridge in a pear tree" ... the gift of the first day of Christmas—it was hers. Widdy had given it to her, and this man smiling down at her had confirmed the gift.

All the Christmases of the past blurred into one big, bright image—of a canary, yellow and cocky, singing a jubilant carol as he balanced, just right, on a glittered bell.

Jenny laughed and kept looking into the nice eyes. "A good teacher, Mr. Reynolds? Yes. Yes, I am." She soared with the "Thank-Goodness-It's-Friday" feeling that only a teacher could know, and added. "And I'm going home for Christmas."

Emma Lou Warner Thayne, Salt Lake City, Utah, graduated from the University of Utah and has taught Freshman English there part time ever since, that is "between babies" and while writing for fun and serving on the General Board of the Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association. She is married to Melvin E. Thayne, who this year was chosen "Realtor of the Year," and they have five daughters known as Mel's Belles, ages five to sixteen. They all love sports, especially tennis and skiing, and much of Emma Lou's writing has been the "occasional" kind concerning their activities. A winner of the Deseret News story contest, Emma Lou has published primarily in Church magazines. Recently, nearly all of her writing efforts are invested in MIA manuals, but she still snatches moments for writing—just because. She claims that isolating ideas is the most exciting exercise there is, even including tennis!

31