[Vol55 | February | Magazine Page 8 | PDF Page 13]

--- PAGE 8 (PDF page 13) ---
January 1968

some years before, and it started out about the problems, and I thought, here is a temple marriage that has failed.

Immediately we began to have problems. We tried then and have tried since to figure out just why. There was no particular thing that consistently precipitated our difficulties. We were active in the Church and attended our meetings; we prayed; we paid our tithing; we returned to the temple regularly. We loved each other so and had such expectations for our marriage. Then we were expecting a baby and, in spite of our very great happiness in anticipating this child, things seemed to go so bad as to seem insolvable. Almost a year after we began, we knew we couldn't continue together any longer under our conditions, and I called the bishop, who was also our friend, and we went over. The three of us talked—a little. You know, I don't recall anything particular that was spoken except the questionable encouragement he offered by saying that he and his wife had had a difficult time after awhile when they were married. The inference was, we solved our problems, why can't you? But when we left the bishop's office we knew we had reached the turning point somehow. We had touched the bottom and we were on our way up. I can't explain why or what happened, but we did start up, and we've been on our way up ever since.

Because they followed the route of the bishop.

FAMILY HOME EVENINGS

I asked a mother in a family if they were having Family Home Evening, and she wrote back and said:

I mentioned a serious illness. I hope this doesn't seem vain, but for the first time I realized how important I was to my children. As I lay helpless to care for any of their needs, and knowing that—except for my Heavenly Father's intervention—my influence upon them in this life was ended, how desirable and precious seemed the hours in the weeks and months ahead. I deter-

mined many things then concerning how to use that time, were it granted to me. One was to spend time nightly reading and talking to the children. I fall short, but we usually spend an hour five evenings a week together. Besides the other things they have been interested in, I have read most of The Book of Mormon to them from the children's volumes. It was my idea at first, but not for long. I have no doubt that it is meaningful to them when I hear my eight-year-old offer thanks in his prayers for the prophets who kept the records, or when my five-year-old son is thankful that Nephi got away safely into the wilderness with the faithful when Laman and Lemuel sought to kill him.

Our experience has been that any time we have an opportunity to help our children expand in their love and understanding of the gospel and the Father who created them, our love for one another also increases, and our family solidarity is influenced in the most significant way. For this reason, the Family Home Evening is of paramount importance to us.

Now, you mothers, over the Church, we are preparing some of the finest lessons that have ever been prepared for families to be taught by fathers and mothers in every home. We have printed 650,000 manuals to be placed in every home in the Church. You are missing a great opportunity in every home where that Family Home Evening Manual is not being studied.

MOTHERS STAY AT CROSS ROADS OF THE HOME

Finally, the last that I shall mention, keep the mother of your home at the "cross roads" of the home. There is a great danger today of homes breaking down because of allurements to entice mothers to neglect their being at home as the family are coming or going from the home. Now I recognize the necessity of some

12