[Vol55 | July | Magazine Page 4 | PDF Page 29]

--- PAGE 4 (PDF page 29) ---
school, unnatural and uncomfortable. The office door was open, across from the display case that still flaunted its Christmas joys. Principals, she thought, must also be the last to leave the ship. But voices from the inner room meant that Miss Riley was not alone. Stepping gingerly through the outer door, Jenny headed for the mail slots. She heard the ordinarily calm Miss Riley almost shouting, "I'm aware that you have a problem, Mr. Reynolds, but you can't just accuse without proof."

"Without proof! Good grief, what does it take?" The man's voice was excited, but not belligerent. "I saw this kid in the back yard by the pen. The gate's locked and nobody would just be walking through. What was he doing in there, if not stealing my bird?"

"Maybe he just wanted to look, Mr. Reynolds. This boy is full of curiosity—about everything. And he likes birds."

"Yes, I guess he likes birds! And he took my best pigeon. Every kid on the street saw him with it, and I haven't seen it since."

"Well, what's his story? Have you talked to him about it? Don't you think it would be fair to hear his side before you come charging in here accusing him? Why didn't you ask—"

"I would have," the man interrupted. "I tried to find him, but no one was home at his house, as usual, and I figured the only place I would get any satisfaction short of calling the police was to come here. Most of the kids say you're fair and tough—well, that's a funny

thing to call a lady, but I need you to do something." He paused and softened a little. "I don't want to hurt the boy, but those pigeons are about the only thing I have that mean much to me."

"I understand your wanting to get the bird back all right, and I would like to help, but if you knew Widdy better. . . ."

Jenny started. Widdy! Widdy in trouble? Widdy a thief! Oh, who would have the nerve to accuse him of anything malicious! She set her jaw to quiet her turbulent anger and strode uninvited into the inner office. She looked into the dark eyes of Widdy's accuser, nicer eyes than she had expected, and blurted, "Why, Widdy Turner wouldn't hurt a fly." Had anything ever sounded so trite?

The man looked to Miss Riley for explanation. She gestured a quick, "Mr. Reynolds, this is Miss Harrow, Widdy's teacher." Then to Jenny she said, "Miss Harrow, Mr. Reynolds thinks Widdy stole his prize pigeon this afternoon."

"Think? I know. I saw him."

He was firm. Everything about him was firm, his forehead that ledged deep eyes, his jaw that worked, even when he wasn't talking, his hands that nudged a crease in and out of the hat he held. Jenny thought, That crease doesn't have a chance.

"What makes you think—or as you claim—know this?" Against her will, Jenny's voice mellowed. "I know this boy like the back of my hand (trite again—sure sign of distress) and I know he's incapable of willful malice."

28