[Vol55 | February | Magazine Page 127 | PDF Page 132]

--- PAGE 127 (PDF page 132) ---
The Home—Inside and Out

Church and school programs, many changes come to this family. And she watched the courtships and falling in love of those same young people, and even some of their wedding receptions.

The family parlor became the social center of the town, and Old Goldie could have told of the cultural growth of both the town and its people. Fine plays and light operas were learned and rehearsed in her presence. Wedding and graduation dresses were fitted before Old Goldie, and she reflected back a radiant happiness, as the wearer turned away to face a new life.

Old Goldie couldn't speak, but she gave to each an honest, direct answer when he stood before her for self-analysis. There were times when selfish, angry defiance was hurled into her face. But she hung quiet, looking at the irate speaker with his own eyes until the storm was spent, and the eyes, first, stared at what she silently showed them, then dropped. Unable to face his own inner reflections, each child would turn and walk away to seek solitude and meditate on Old Goldie's sermon.

Yes, Old Goldie watched seventy years of growth and

Now, the one to whom she had been given as a gift so many years ago, lay in her casket within an arm's length of her beloved old mirror. The children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren came, by the score, to bid farewell to Grandma, and to visit the old house for the last time. Old Goldie seemed to hang desolate and untouched by the crowd, as she looked down upon her dear mistress. Would all the stories locked in her memories ever be released and told? She appeared dull and tired and seemed to say, "Dear old friend, we have had a long, eventful life together. Now you will be laid to rest, and this old house will be torn down, but what will become of me?"

Then a man's voice was heard to say, "No, John; true, I am the oldest, but my family are all married and gone. You have a big family of growing children at home yet. So you take Old Goldie home with you to help you to rear those children right."

It might have been the afternoon sun slanting across the room that made Old Goldie look so bright and alive again.

FOR EXAMPLE
Kathryn Kay

What else is there to do
                except stop crying,
regard myself, with faith restrengthening—
what's life itself except continued trying?
For instance, look at winter . . . look at spring!

127