[Vol55 | October | Magazine Page 9 | PDF Page 46]

--- PAGE 9 (PDF page 46) ---
top of our dresser. Oh, we called it a dresser, although it was simply another set of apple boxes, draped, with a mirror on top. Every inch of space in that apartment-room was at a premium."

She told of an incident that indicated clearly the dimensions of the room.

"One night, when we had both gone to sleep, Mother knocked at our door. It was after midnight, but we had no phone. She had come to bring us the news of Uncle David's accident. She said that Father was working on him in the operating room. By the time I got my husband awake and the bed lifted up into the wall closet, in order to open the door, Mother seemed upset, and we heard her grumble, 'To think that an only child, a daughter of mine, would have to live like this!' You see, she often forgot the early challenges of her marriage, when Father was attending medical school."

Mr. Pleasant had a good sense of humor, and when there would be the least breakdown in office-home management, he would come to the rescue with such comments as, "Has our file clerk taken ill? Under the heading on this file, 'Buy Folded Diapers,' she has filed absolutely nothing!" Mrs. Pleasant always retaliated with laughter, suggesting facetiously that he fire the file clerk immediately. Then Mr. Pleasant would announce, in dramatic alarm, "The room is too crowded. I am afraid I shall never be able to find the file clerk. There is hardly room for the baby!"

Mrs. Pleasant, the night of our visit, summed up her thoughts with the remark that all women ought to learn to enjoy what they can afford to own.

Last week, a young married woman came to my home, obviously disturbed because she did not have some of the worldly appliances which my husband, after years of planning, had provided for our family. I felt impressed to tell her about Mrs. Pleasant. She had complained, "Why, you should see our apartment! It is no bigger than my office used to be, when I worked as a receptionist, before our marriage. I am ashamed to invite anyone to our place."

A letter came in my mailbox today from her. She climaxed her remarks with these comments: "Too many of us young wives are not willing to sacrifice while our husbands are getting started. We expect now what our mothers have taken a lifetime to have. We need more Mrs. Pleasants! She has made me happy, once again, to live out of our suitcases and cardboard boxes. Thank you for letting me meet her!"

---

A POEM
Caroline Atterton

"Write a poem," says she as plan as can be!
As plan as the nose on your face!
I'll do what I can—the best that I can!
But I warn you—it takes just this much space.

45