[Vol55 | March | Magazine Page 81 | PDF Page 90]

--- PAGE 81 (PDF page 90) ---
Mother Eve, a Worthy Exemplar

and came to the scripture which said:

... if a man ... giveth a gift ... grudgingly; wherefore it is counted unto him the same as if he had retained the gift; wherefore he is counted evil before God. (Moroni 7:8.)

This shocked me because I was out about a thousand dollars. Well, I went on and paid the three installments I had promised to pay, and then I paid several more installments to convince the Lord that I had done it with the right attitude.

By extending to me the invitation to speak to you at this time, the Relief Society Presidency has conferred upon me a great honor. And, they have burdened me with a great responsibility. They did not definitively state what they wanted me to talk about. They said anything that would be good for all women, in the Church and out. Not knowing what you want, I selected a theme that I like. I thought there was no need for all of us to be disappointed.

Now, I have decided to try to discharge this responsibility by calling your attention to the five great character traits of Mother Eve, as they are revealed in the scriptures.

We all know, of course, that she was the first mortal woman, the mother of the human race. I hope that in the next few moments I can persuade you that she was a great and noble woman who set an example in righteous living worthy of emulation not only by members of Relief Society but by all other women.

The virtues I speak of are these:

1. She labored with her husband.
2. She fulfilled her mission to multiply and replenish the earth.
3. She prayed with her husband.
4. She learned, understood, and appreciated the gospel.
5. With her husband, she taught the gospel to her children.

The earliest reference to Eve as a mortal woman is found in the first verse of the 5th chapter of Moses in the Pearl of Great Price. It reads:

And it came to pass that after I, the Lord God, had driven them out, that Adam began to till the earth, and to have dominion over all the beasts of the field, and to eat his bread by the sweat of his brow, as I the Lord had commanded him. And Eve, also, his wife, did labor with him. (Moses 5:1.)

Laboring with her husband became a grim necessity, as she and Adam began to realize the significance of the "Lord God's" declaration:

... cursed is the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life;
Thorns also ... and thistles shall it bring forth to thee. ...
... in the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground. ... (Gen. 3:17-19.)

In their valiant, lonely struggle for a livelihood, this noble woman "did labor with her husband." The word "with," as here used, is very significant. It means more than physical labor. It connotes a common purpose, understanding, cooperation, and love. In this laboring with her husband, she set a pattern worthy of emulation by all her daughters to the latest generation.

Although the nature of a wife's

85