[Vol55 | October | Magazine Page 8 | PDF Page 45]

--- PAGE 8 (PDF page 45) ---
that she had one cupboard up high in the room, in which she kept first-aid supplies. I watched the twinkle in her eyes when she admitted that these supplies were sometimes useful after a nightly workout.

"My husband and I feel that children need to play 'roughhouse' now and then," she said, smiling.

When the little boys were tucked down into their beds, she said we could have a good talk. Our husbands were in the den, and the older children were busy in the dining room doing their homework. We went back to the playroom. The comfort of the children had been paramount in the planning of that room. Mrs. Pleasant stated that it had taken five years to complete this room to specifications. Rocking horses, painted floor games, basketball equipment, and an extensive children's library of books and musical recordings made the room a haven of fun. There was a noticeable lack of dolls and girls' toys, of course, but the Pleasants had no daughters.

I stood in awe at the material blessings that had been bestowed upon the Pleasant children. Their mother, a cultured university graduate, sat down on one of the loungers beside me and sighed, "You know, dear, we were not always able to buy such furnishings as we have now." Little by little, she shared the details with me.

"My father was a doctor, and my husband's people had a successful business. They felt there was no reason for us to live in the 'cubbyhole' we rented. However, we wanted to feel independent. It's true, we had quite a struggle while my husband was getting through college; the only money we had was what I could earn as secretary to the dean of engineering."

Later, Mrs. Pleasant worked at home, doing typing for the professors, in order that she could be with the first, and then the second child. By this time, Mr. Pleasant had a part-time position, instructing at the college he attended. The tiny suite in which they lived was close to the campus, which saved transportation expenses.

Mrs. Pleasant said she had tried to run her home like the best and most orderly office. She had received a degree in business administration, making it possible for her to "understand her husband's language." The two of them learned to budget realistically. They took year-end inventory, to decide on purchases for the future. In allowing themselves few luxuries, they were able to start a small savings account at the bank.

They had two rules in those days: first, only one movie or dance a month and dessert once a week, usually on Sunday.

"When you look at our home now, you, I realize, can hardly believe that once we got by with apple-box cupboards—apple boxes were free from our grocery store. I painted them and made attractive drapes out of very inexpensive print, bought as remnants. In the fall and spring, I would rent a sewing machine for a week, to keep things in good condition and myself clothed. For the five-dollar fee, I could sew what I needed. I can see that little portable now, on

44