[Vol55 | September | Magazine Page 709 | PDF Page 742]

--- PAGE 709 (PDF page 742) ---
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By
(Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69)

Message 3—Each Person Needs to Feel Accepted
Alice Colton Smith

Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1968
Southern Hemisphere: May 1969

OBJECTIVE: To show that acceptance encourages growth.

It is easy to thrill with borrowed courage as we identify with the shepherd leaving the comfort of the fold to search the hot, scorching desert for the strayed. We rejoice that Jesus saw good in the sinner and offered the water that quencheth all thirst to the oft married woman then living with a man not her husband. We are gladdened by the acceptance of the erstwhile wastrel, the prodigal son by his father. We are delighted that Jesus received little children when his disciples "rebuked those that brought them." (Mark 10:13.) We are grateful that Jesus would dine with publican and sinner. But what would happen if Jesus were our neighbor—dining with sinners, seeking out those who had left the Church, visiting with a woman whose reputation was besmirched, and accepting back, with love, the family "black sheep"?

Do such in need of help dwell on our street? Can we, as Jesus, keep our own standards yet receive into our hearts and lives those whose behavior is different and help them gradually to find a better way? How can we become the greatest friend (not necessarily the most intimate) of both non-active Saint and member?

One wintry afternoon, a nonmember woman said to me, "The Mormons at this university have much to say to one another, but they do not include me in their visiting. I've spent three lonely years on this campus. I can't wait until I'm back home and some Mormon missionary calls on me. Will I give it to him. The Mormons don't practice what they preach." Do we send our missionaries at great expense to the far corners of the earth and fail to preach the gospel through our lives at home? Also, how can we help returned missionaries and their families be gracious to visiting mission members?

One boy's mother constantly told him he was the ugliest boy on earth. A younger son had an older brother held up to him as better and more capable. An anxious mother continually criticized her daughter, rarely praised her. A teacher openly favored her pleasant pupils while disapproving of the less capable and unruly.

709