[Vol55 | December | Magazine Page 4 | PDF Page 49]

--- PAGE 4 (PDF page 49) ---
a maid for you. Actually, I don't refer to Olympia as our maid, even though that's what the girls call themselves. Somehow, the word maid always brings to my mind a uniformed servant drawing a bubble bath, while her lady eats breakfast between pink satin bed sheets! And it's nothing like that out here at all. In the first place, the Saipanese expect you to employ them; and in the second place, these girls are used to the climate and don't mind one bit standing over a hot ironing board all day."

"I have noticed my ironing increase," Nancy said. "It seems we are forever taking showers and changing clothes."

"Right. So I hope you'll forgive me for employing Soledad."

Nancy rested her head back on the seat of the car and closed her eyes. Maybe it would be nice having help, after all, especially with twins. It seemed such a long time since the day Grant had thrown her life into a turmoil by asking if she had ever heard of Micronesia. She hadn't really rested her mind since. Maybe, with a house girl, she would be able to unwind from the whole overwhelming experience of being uprooted so abruptly. And it would give her more time to spend with Amy and Skipper.

But the first thing I want to do when I get home, she thought, is just to sleep, and sleep, and sleep.

The Mortensen car climbed the long winding road to the top of Navy Hill, made its way around a broad clearing marked off as a ball field, and stopped in front of a bright yellow garbage can decorated with oversized daisies. In the doorway of the quonset stood a short, but large, Saipanese woman.

"Soledad," Francine said, as they got out of the car, "this is Mr. and Mrs. Jackson, Amy, and Skipper."

Soledad leaned over, wrapped her huge brown arms around Skipper and whisked him up into the air.

"I like babies," she said.

Skipper screamed and kicked. "I not a baby! Put me down! Put me down!"

Soledad complied with his wishes, shaking her finger at him. "Baba patgon lahe!"

"I'm terribly sorry," Nancy said. "I hope he didn't hurt you. He's probably just tired from the trip."

"Baba patgon lahe!"

Then she waddled toward the car to get the suitcases, as the rest of them went into the quonset.

Nancy whispered to Francine, "Doesn't she speak English?"

"Oh, yes. What she said was that Skipper was a bad boy. She speaks English all right—but gets frustrated in pure Chamarro!"

Then Charles reached out and put an arm each around Grant and Nancy.

"You don't know what it means to us to have you here," he said. "You'll never know. We've been the only Latter-day Saints on the island for six years. This is a very special day in our lives."

"Which reminds me," Francine said, "I usually hold Primary

48