[Vol55 | September | Magazine Page 712 | PDF Page 745]

--- PAGE 712 (PDF page 745) ---
September 1968

become an important part of the family record. It also contains family photographs taken from time to time.

6. Scrapbook. This contains cards children have made for Mother's Day, Father's Day, birthdays, valentines, and Christmas. It contains the art work of children mounted on colored construction paper with child's name and age. It contains, also, original compositions—stories, poems, talks, special letters, etc.

7. Family Treasures. Plastic-covered pages are used to keep and preserve family treasures such as precious letters (John Taylor, Brigham Young), an old clipping announcing Lincoln's death and

the other important events which may be among the family's possessions.

CONCLUSION

Every family may not want to carry out such an extensive record program, but each can work out its own method according to the needs and desires of its members. The important thing is that every family realize the joy and satisfaction which can come to them through the preservation of the significant things which have made their own family what it is.

SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life

Lesson 3—Lighting the Way
Alberta H. Christensen

(Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69)

Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1968
Southern Hemisphere: May 1969

OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that during his ministry the Savior gave guidance on the basic aspects of human relationships.

INTRODUCTION

In the foreword of Behold the Lamb of God written by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Elder Harold B. Lee speaks of President Clark's humble faith and of his scholarly study of the life of the Savior:

Among the great scholars of our day was President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. During the earlier mature years of his life, he lived away from the organized units of the Church, in Washington, D.C., and

later in Mexico, associated with the State Department of the United States, and then with the diplomatic service.

During these years, the Sabbath Day was observed by him just as sacredly as though he were in full attendance at Church meetings and Church activities. He engaged himself on the Sabbath, when there were very often no other activities available, in the study of the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth, the Savior of the world. He procured, over these years, an excellent library on the life of the Master and with painstaking care, set about to work out a "harmony" of

712