[Vol55 | September | Magazine Page 710 | PDF Page 743]

--- PAGE 710 (PDF page 743) ---
September 1968

"The noblest aim in life is to strive to live to make other lives better and happier," said President David O. McKay. (Pathways to Happiness, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, Inc., p. 280.) To encourage, to help achieve, praise whenever possible, teach how to learn from failure, to give to each child the certainty that he is a worthwhile, loved, and valued child of his parents and of God, to accept others with their limitations, as people such as are we, who are not yet perfect but desire to be, is to follow the advice of our prophet. Of children and the non-Mormon, especially, we should be thoughtful and considerate. None should be called bad, although sometimes we may and should discuss that which is being done as not praiseworthy. By loving and accepting all our neighbors as worthwhile, we will help them and us grow toward God. Acceptance is the fertile soil in which growth takes place.

HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education

Discussion 3—Priceless Treasures

Celestia J. Taylor

Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1968
Southern Hemisphere: April 1969

OBJECTIVE: To point out the joy, satisfaction, and historical value of a continuous compilation of significant family events.

INTRODUCTION

Instinctive in all of us, whether we are aware of it or not, is the desire to preserve for our posterity the knowledge and assurance of our having lived. Coupled with this natural inclination is the impulse to share with our associates, particularly our loved ones, our moments of happiness, our accomplishments, our aspirations, and our hopes. Were this not so, no books would have been written, no songs would have been sung, and no pictures would have been painted.

The Latter-day Saints are a record-keeping people, for to keep records is a part of their great heritage from The Book of Mormon, as well as from the Bible. Our interest in genealogy bears ample evidence of this fact. In his infinite wisdom, the Lord has commanded from time to time, as recorded in the Book of Mormon, the keeping of records of all that has transpired.

The Relief Society Magazine for January 1967 contains the homemaking discussion, "Keeping

710