[Vol55 | February | Magazine Page 6 | PDF Page 11]

--- PAGE 6 (PDF page 11) ---
January 1968

done all they can to teach their children. Such a force influenced the younger Alma who, with the sons of Mosiah, set out to destroy the work of their great fathers. The angel, you remember, was sent and he knocked him down and hit him right between the eyes, I suppose, and he lay as though he were dead for three days and nights and the angel said,

...Behold, the Lord hath heard the prayers of his people, and also the prayers of his servant, Alma, who is thy father; for he has prayed with much faith concerning thee that thou mightest be brought to the knowledge of the truth; therefore, for this purpose have I come to convince thee of the power and authority of God, that the prayers of his servants might be answered according to their faith. (Mosiah 27:14.)

It was so with Nephi, whom his unruly brothers sought to destroy, and when the angel said,

Ye are swift to do iniquity but slow to remember the Lord your God. Ye have seen an angel, and he spake unto you; yea, ye have heard his voice from time to time; and he hath spoken unto you in a still small voice, but ye were past feeling, that ye could not feel his words; wherefore, he has spoken unto you like unto the voice of thunder, which did cause the earth to shake as if it were to divide asunder. (1 Nephi 17:45.)

And then Nephi, after he said that, continued:

...In the name of the Almighty God, I command you that ye touch me not, for I am filled with the power of God, even unto the consuming of my flesh; and whoso shall lay his hands upon me shall wither even as a dried reed; and he shall be as naught before the power of God, for God shall smite him. (1 Nephi 17:48.)

I am remembering now a dramatic time when, at a funeral sermon an unruly son of a mother in whose honor wer were

meeting in that service, asked if he might speak at his mother's funeral service. And there, in great detail, with more boldness than I would have dared to have talked about him, because I knew his life, he told how, as a boy growing up, he had disregarded wholly the admonitions of his little German father and mother and how, finally, the father and mother gone, he was beginning to read, as it were, that Book which had been unread for all these years and he bore witness to the influence the mother and father had had upon him even while he was transgressing about every law in the Book.

PUT FATHER AT THE HEAD OF THE HOUSE

The second role I would say in the responsibility of the mother is to put father at the head of the house. That is a statement from the famous judge who said he thought it was that which lay at the root of many of the problems in a delinquent home. How does mother do it? Someone said that little children soon outgrow their need for affection, but fathers never do. Now that is the first way to put father at the head of the house. Even when he doesn't deserve it. When he does deserve it, kiss him, and if he gets angry, ignore him. Give him the silent treatment. But never, never let him feel that you don't understand him. Put father at the head of the house.

President Brigham Young said:

I know that you good women get annoyed and provoked and out of patience many times with your husbands, and at times justly so. They are not always as considerate of you as

10