A Christmas Dinner in France Sixty Years Ago
The following letter was written by President George A. Smith, grandfather of Apostle George Albert Smith, to one of his daughters, who was then a young girl. The writer of the letter was then on his way to Palestine in company with Apostle Lorenzo Snow, Eliza R. Snow, Feramorz Little and others:
"Nice, Dec. 25, 1872.
"My Dear Daughter:
"We left Marseilles yesterday morning and came by railroad over a hilly country along the shores of the Mediterranean, passing through many deep cuts in the rocks, and numerous tunnels, arriving at Nice, which you will see on the map is near the south-east corner of France.
"In the evening the bells began to ring, the boys fired their crackers, and occasionally we saw a Christmas tree being carried along the streets. The little fellows here are fond of Christmas gifts as well as in our own country.
"Elder Snow, Eliza R., F. Little, Clara and myself took a ride in an open carriage to see the town and vicinity. Its site is very rocky and uneven. Everything is green?flowers of numerous tints in bloom. Orange groves, loaded with fruit, and olive trees, also loaded, form a beautiful contrast with the thoughts of winter in Salt Lake City. A great many wealthy people come here to spend the winter on account of its romantic situation and its temperate climate. Many beautiful hotels and villas have been built for their accommodation.
"We are at the Grand Hotel. Our rooms are on what we call the fourth and what they call the third story. We go down four double flights of stairs and up two for our meals. About two hundred sit down to table d'hote at six o'clock p. M. The first dish was soup, which Aunt Eliza pronounced good (change of plates); second dish, a nice little meat pie about the size of a common-sized peach (change of plates); third dish, a little fish and a little potato, and a little melted butter dip (change of plates); fourth dish a little baked beef with a little green peas mixed with several other compounds (plates changed); fifth dish, a little chicken, hardly done, with sheep's heart (change of plates); sixth dish, nameless and uneatable (plates changed); seventh dish, meat jelly and meat hashed (plates changed); eighth dish, a little chicken bitter seasoned, accompanied with lettuce and celery mixed with vinegar and olive oil (plates changed); ninth dish, plum pudding very small and good for Christmas (plates changed); tenth dish, ice cream and a small cake (plates changed); eleventh dish, a small cake and roasted horse-chestnuts (plates changed); twelfth dish, oranges, pears and several kinds of nuts.
"It took one hour and a half for this performance, for we had to wait longer between the different courses than it took us to eat the portions served up to us. Probably about one hundred bottles of table wine were drunk during the meal. The drinking water is placed on the table in bottles. It is clear, but warm and insipid. I forgot to state that to each person was appropriated a small crusty loaf of bread, not so large as my fist; the seasoning of the food is generally unpalatable to me, which caused me to try the sour wine which also was not pleasant to the taste. This is Christmas abroad?I hope you had a better one at home, although ours was amusing to us, seated as we were in the midst of the 'tip-top' fashionables.
"We leave tomorrow morning for Genoa, Italy. * * *
"From your affectionate father, "George A. Smith."