At Mary's Feet
By Claire Stewart Boyer
KEITH MANNERS, Christian, paced the heathen streets of Chenghow in distress. He walked between the rows of low mud-huts, unconscious of the filthy odors that crept lazily from the half open doors and mingled with the dust from his feet. Yet somehow he seemed to be entirely aware of the surroundings, for, though his eyes stared into the dusk ahead, and his hands hung loosely in his great coat pockets, his steps were unhesitating. He was unmistakably American, but in his cramped attitude there was something of the same uncanny hopelessness that characterized the intermingled huts and grave mounds about him. The droop of his shoulders was as noticeably Chinese as if he had dragged through thirty years of life as a coolie, and there was also a foreign heaviness to his walk.
Outwardly he asked nothing but the privilege of being let alone; inwardly he was besought with a thousand demon fears that struggled for supremacy. A December chill swept the treeless northern plains and wrapt itself about the little village, but no one knew that it was Christmas. No one knew and no one cared, no one except the lonely Christian. For the only Americans in Chenghow was the little group of missionaries to which he belonged and they had left that morning for Peking to spend their holiday. When they had pronounced themselves ready to go Keith Manners had been missing.
All day long he had wandered about the country, afoot, trying to fight the spirit of failure and desolation that had taken possession of him. He had passed through the walls of the city and had sought the bleak hills for solitude. But up there, with a view of the valley below, he had become more unhappy. Walls! Walls! Nothing but colorless walls! Walls around the houses, around districts, around the city. He felt that China had even built a wall about his soul and prevented him from becoming a bigger and better man. He shivered and started back to town.
Evening found him still wandering; Christmas night, and he a lonely Christian in a pagan land. He felt not only like a man without a country, but a man without a God. For three years he had struggled hard to bring the unbelieving souls about him to a knowledge of Christ, and he had failed. Not one convert to his credit, no reward for his unceasing toil and faith. And they had had so much faith in him at home.
Again and again he recalled his last day at home: the Church sociable, the family dinner where envy and pride and love glowing in the eyes of all around him, had given him supreme faith; and lastly his moments alone with Donna, who had staked her woman's heart on his success. He had been filled with the glory of Christianity. Like a knight in search of the Holy Grail he had girded himself and started forth, on a quest that was sanctified. That had been three years before.
This morning he had received their Christmas cheer, their messages of renewed faith and love. Donna had sweetly reprimanded him for not telling of his conversions. She had praised and even flattered him, giv-
AT MARY'S FEET
ing him her devoted assurance of his success. That had hurt him most. But he was glad that he had not sent the diamond that lay in its silken case in his pocket?the symbol of his success. For that had been his promise to Donna, that only if he succeeded would he ask her to become his wife.
The first months of his mission had been filled with hope. Before he had been able to accomplish much, except learn the Chinese dialect, a year had gone. During the first part of the second year, he had met at Peking a traveling Hindu, who had a small store of gems, and had been able to purchase an exquisite stone quite beyond his hopes in size and lustre. But his conscience had not allowed him to send it?he had not succeeded. And so went the second year.
With the approach of the third winter, he had carried the diamond in his pocket, trying harder than ever to make the words of the Savior ring in the hearts of his hearers. Only once had he noticed a face light up with a Christian ray. He had met a Chinese girl returning from her ancestral tombs, and no one being present to prevent him, he had talked to her of Christ. She had told him her name was Lili Chang and had given him a tiny silken watch case that she had embroidered with her own hands. Time and again he had looked for her. He had wandered often among the tombs and waited outside the temples of worship, but he had never seen her again.
So came the third Christmas and with it an overpowering sense of failure. He had no heart to revel with the Americans at Peking. So he had slipped away when his fellow missionaries were to leave, that he might fight out his problem alone.
725
Perhaps in some way he could regain the spirit, he had lost.
He fumbled with the precious amulet in his pocket and walked on slackening his steps as he neared the heart of the town. The hour for sacrifice was over and quietly and quickly people drifted into the street. A few late laborers shuffled past, beggars, and young girls whose pallid wistfulness pierced the night air in ghastly appeal. Little crippled forms shambled out before the American and made him shudder.
Presently a peculiar moan coming from a grave mound caused him to turn his head. There was no light. He looked above, but even the stars were shrouded. Glancing around to see that no curious eyes followed him he headed toward the dark objects to his left. Out through a barren field, he stumbled. Distress, other than his own, caused him to forget. As he drew closer to the mound he discerned a moving mass at its base. The voice was that of a woman, and he stopped and tried to raise the form that sprawled frantically in the dirt. As she resisted his aid he tried to speak, but sobbing cut him short. Without looking at him she wrenched herself free with inexplicable force. Again he mustered his dialect, but at his first word she uttered a fearful shriek and fled terrorized into the night. He sprang after her and though the dusk had deepened, caught one glimpse of her averted face. He stopped. Dizzily he faltered back to the grave mound and bent over it. A handful of fresh dirt revealed that the grave was a recent one. And the woman's face! Where had he seen that face before?
Slowly he turned and retracing his steps to the highway, continued his course. Now every sound attracted him,
726
every passer by he scrutinized. A shapeless cripple with twisted arms and a head deformed put out its claws for a copper. He thrust his hands into his pockets but they contained only the one little roll of silk enveloping the diamond. The momentary flicker of hope that had enlivened his pale face, faded; he shook his head and brushed past. Ten steps farther on another creature confronted him, begging piteously. Vexed with the knowledge that he had nothing to give he quickened his pace, only to be besieged by a group of infant beggars, bowing continually, their little shaven heads bobbing up and down in the cold night air. Their childish pleading held him captive. He could not remember having seen so many mendicants before, except perhaps on the day of his arrival. Yet they must have been there these three years. Compassion swept him. His moist fingers opened and closed over the little silk object in his pocketed hand.
He surveyed the scattered shops with their lanterns burning dimly. Once more he looked down at the beggar children who stared up at him uncomprehendingly. Resolutely he clutched the precious symbol of love. Only a moment he hesitated, then turned toward the placarded pawn shop. He could at least do that much?put Christmas into the hearts of these, Christ's most unfortunate of children.
He entered the narrow door, pushing back the silken tapestries with his left hand, holding in his right all that was left of his dream. The shop dealer sat at a small table. Keith cautiously unwrapped his gem. For a second he rolled it about in the palm of his hand lovingly then held it toward the pawn-broker and asked,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"How much?" The man looked at it hard and long, then squinted up at the American, anger and suspicion in his eyes.
"Where you get him?"
A bit confused at the darting look Keith Manners shifted his weight to his other foot. Almost unconcernedly he ventured, "Peking."
"You know him worth?"
"Yes."
"Then why you bring him here?" His eyes blazed, he waved his arm furiously and muttered unintelligible curses. Keith swept the bits of silk that had encased the gem into his pocket, and went quickly through the door and into the streets. His suppliants had gathered there to meet him, but he fled past them like a mad man. He held but two gifts: a truth so precious that he could not administer to their starving souls, a gem so valuable that he could not even aid their suffering bodies. He could do nothing.
Past the extreme end of the village, out through a field of unproductive clay, flowed the Koong River. Unconsciously toward it Keith Manners strode. He was startled when he struck its banks for he had expected to go on and on and on over endless, hopeless plains. He cringed at the thought its muddied surfaces recalled, for here he had been told were thrown the unwanted babies of Chenghow. He sat down, bracing his knees with his arms, and letting his head rest upon them. All was darkness and stillness and loneliness. And yet for the first time that day he felt a sort of companionship. There was the crooning of a night bird. He listened again, never before had he heard that sound. It was near, perhaps in the willow bush not
AT MARY'S FEET
twenty feet away. As he rose he noticed that one star had parted the curtains of heaven. Cautiously he went toward the sound. It was a sad human wail, yet curiously sweet. For the third time that night Keith Manners was startled. There seated on the river bank was a woman. A glorious serenity pervaded her features, and she bent protectingly over her new-born child. The crooning ceased, and she raised her face fearfully to the Christian. There was a moment's uncertainty. Then, swift as recognition can be given in silence, between two who share some divine thought, Lili Chang's face cleared. She tried to speak, but caught at her throat with her slim right hand. Keith Manners came nearer.
"Why, O why are you here, Lili Chang?" he stammered.
A smile passed faintly from her eyes and brushed her features, O! So lightly.
"It is because of your Christ Man I am here," she answered calmly. "You remember the day you come to me and tell me of Him, O so gladly?"
"I thought you had forgot it Lili Chang. I thought that you were lost."
"O no. The Christian is not lost. I be a Christian too. So soon I tell my husband and we have the secret. No more we worship Buddha. Then someone know, and he, my husband die. Today he die." A little wail escaped her lips.
"So I come here to give your Christ Man my baby."
Sobs choked her and the man kneeling at her feet swallowed hard. "You love our Christ?" he managed.
727
"I am no more to my people. I am for your Christ."
"And the?the child," stammered the man.
"I give him to your Christ Man too."
"Not to die?"
"No die. You say we no die. We go see your Christ Man; me and my little baby."
"But first Lili Chang you must live, live for our Christ Man first. You must bring him," pointing to the stirring bundle in her arms, "you must bring him to love Christ too."
"Yes, I think of that. But if he no love the Christ Man when he be big, it better for him to go to Christ Man now." She cuddled the tiny form against her heart and tear drops glistened in her eyes.
"But you have faith Lili Chang. Put that faith in Christ. He gave you your little son and will watch over him. Perhaps?" he spoke as one inspired, "perhaps your child will be the savior of your nation."
The face of Lili Chang was glorified. "My baby? My baby bring the heaven to the earth?"
"If it is His will." He raised his eyes to heaven and uttered a Christian prayer. Stars had filled the sky. The heavens were bright. Christ's spirit had entered the heathen land?it flooded the plain and lit up the faces of the three Christians. Through tears of joy the Chinese Madonna gazed at her child and seemed to see a halo round his head, and Keith Manners, like a wise man of old, kneeling at this foreign Mary's feet, drew forth his glittering tribute and placed it in the precious baby's hand.