Fiftieth Cake By Ivy W. Stone JEANETTE PARSONS, single, famed as a maker of wedding cakes. Stood at her white enamel kitchen table, the ingredients of a cake spread out before her in methodical array. The glass mixing bowl held butter and sugar. Citron and orange peel, pineapple and cherries were ready for the chopper. Egg whites in one bowl, yolks in another. Nuts ready to be cracked, raisins and currants to be cleaned, dates and prunes to be pitted. The red spice boxes stood in a neat row, the soda and baking powder were measured. The linoleum glistened from a recent scrubbing in milk, the range shone from its polish of paraffin. The Christmas cactus gave promise of blooms in season, while the chintz curtains and Jeanette's apron vied for supremacy in whiteness. Miss Parsons' blue-black eyes were Scotch; her brown, curly hair was Irish. But the curls were combed into a prim, tight knot and the eyes were drawn into a pucker. Miss Parsons looked her thirty-five years, famed as a maker of wedding cakes. "One two three four," she counted as she measured cups of flour into the sieve. Making a wedding cake in the solitude of her own kitchen was a simple matter to the experienced Jeanette, but having to entertain the prospective bride and listen to her endless questions and chatter was neatly calamitous. "Why didn't you ever marry, Miss Parsons?" From across the table Cherry Barton, soon to become Mrs. Kenneth J. Merrick, put her question with no thought of hesitancy. "Six seven eight," Jeanette continued to count, and bent farther over the flour bin. Only a quick flush up her neck revealed she had heard Cherry's lightly put question. "You missed five, Miss Parsons. You've only got seven cups." "I declare, Cherry," Jeanette's voice indicated forced patience. "when I agreed to make your wedding cake, I never expected to have to entertain you while I made it. Now, I'll have to measure that flour all over again. You keep still, Cherry, till I'm through counting." Thus rebuked, Cherry rinsed the raisins under the tap with a quick splash and spread them out on a pie tin. "There," she announced triumphantly, "your raisins are washed." "Did you pick 'em over?" "Did I what?" Cherry looked puzzled. "Did you sort 'em? They're labeled 'cleaned and ready for use,' but it isn't so. Little, tiny stems are buried in the meats, and seeds pop up like mushrooms. I ain't intending your husband's folks from Boston are going to find seeds and stems in cake that I baked." Cherry's twenty years had been happy, carefree and joyous. The responsibility of her care was merely being transferred from doting parents to a devoted lover. The possibility of a stray seed or stem ruining a wedding cake did not seem monumental to this bride-to-be. "I'd much rather you put the old cake away and told me of your blighted romance," persisted Cherry. "Something's happened, I know, to keep you single. Your saucy blue eyes and brown curls have a come hither look." "I'd much rather you'd go home and let me finish this cake before I spoil it," retorted Jeanette with the familiarity of old friends. "If your mother wasn't such a real friend, I'd never have done it so near Christmas." "They sent me over here because I was in the way at home," admitted Cherry humbly. "I tried to help make my wedding dress, and I lost the scissors and cut the neck where I shouldn't have done. They're building a bower, and I knocked the stepladder into a bookcase. I tried to unwrap the presents, and I mixed the cards. Now Mother doesn't know whether Mrs. Van Housen sent candle sticks or salt cellars. Somebody sent linen with hand embroidery; somebody else sent linen with Mexican drawn work, and I can't remember which is which." Cherry's eyes brimmed with tears. "Now I've spoiled your cake. I don't care whether I have a wedding or not. I'd just as soon go to the court house to be married." She dabbed at her eyes with a tiny excuse of a handkerchief, and looked more beautiful than ever. Jeanette promptly repented as Cherry had meant she should. "There child, don't worry," she consoled, patting her shoulder. "If you'll just sit and watch, you can stay all day. Brides are that way; can't settle to do anything. Everybody working for them, too. With your wedding only four days off, your eyes shouldn't be red. Now you count with me; one-two-three-four-five-six-seven-eight." The proper measurement was safely achieved and both women laughed. "Can't I even crack the nuts?" Cherry seemed determined to have a hand in her own wedding cake. Jeanette sighed resignedly. "If you'll watch them ever so carefully, and pick out every single piece of shell and partition wall. But mind, you don't leave a speck of shell. This is my forty-ninth wedding cake, and I won't have it spoiled." Sitting over by the sink, as far away as the room permitted, so no flying shell would fall into the precious mixture, Cherry watched a craftsman at work. The sugar and butter were whipped into creamy, foamy smoothness. The raisins and currants were sorted meticulously until Cherry gasped at the little mound of seeds and stems which Jeanette displayed with a superior air. The flour and baking powder were sifted fourteen times. The chopper spun round as Jeanette fed in the THE FIFTIETH CAKE fruits. The egg whites rose into a stiff mound. Cherry, who could drive a car through dense traffic and play "To a Wild Rose" on her violin, suddenly realized that a genius could preside in a kitchen. Oil paper was fitted into the four corners of each of the flat tins. After the oven had been tested and Jeanette stood ready to stir in the dissolved soda, Cherry reverted to her first question. "If you had ever let a man see you bake a cake, Miss Jeanette, I'm sure you would be married. It's marvelous. It's a poem. No wonder you get seventy-five cents a pound. It's worth a dollar." "December butter and eggs are expensive." Jeanette pushed the stiff batter high into the corners and left it low in the center of each pan. "Why?" queried Cherry, tensely interested. "So it'll rise level. I don't never have lop sided cakes. They don't look nice. A lop sided cake is the mark of a poor cook." The pans were placed in the oven with slow, careful precision. Miss Parsons shut the door cautiously, examined the fire, marked the hour of the clock, and turned to her guest. "We'll sit a spell before we wash up the dishes. I never jiggle the floor for half an hour." "Why didn't you marry?" The irrepressible Cherry reached for the batter spoon and knocked over an open box of nutmeg. "I'm so happy and Ken is so grand, I hate to think of you living here alone. On winter nights and holidays, it must be dreadful lonesome." Cherry glanced towards the snow piled window sills and shuddered. The exertion of cake making had dampened Miss Parsons' incurls. Some of them escaped the tight coiffure and clustered at her neck. A spicy aroma came from the oven, which dissipated the annoyed expression of her eyes. They became calm and reminiscent. "This is my forty-ninth cake, and forty-eight other brides have asked the same question. Brides get romantic, Cherry. They want everybody else to get into the same boat. They can't rest till they pair everyone off. I never told the others. It wasn't their business. But your mother knows, and you would wiggle it out of her. I ain't married, because I won't light a red lantern, and stick it in my window." Miss Jeanette pointed to an upper shelf where a red globed lantern occupied a place of prominence. All the pent up romance of Cherry's youth burst forth in one long drawn "Oh?oh?oh!" as she glanced at the commonplace lantern. "Why, it's more romantic than Portia's chests!" "I have the match to light it too," continued Miss Jeanette, keeping a practised eye on the clock. "But I'm Irish stubborn, and I won't, somehow I can't, bring myself to be so bold as to send a man a signal I want him. He knows where I live. Let him come when he wants me." Her mouth set in lines that were too firm for beauty. "This is my forty-ninth cake. I'm baking only one more wedding cake for other folks. When you change from a girl to a woman, baking cakes for other brides, fifty is about enough. I bake just one more." She folded her hands and set her chin in a manner that suggested pioneering ancestors. "Is it ordered?" Cherry's eyes danced with sudden inspiration. "Have you already promised to make that last cake?" "No, and I'm glad I haven't. Christmas time is too busy for extras like weddings. I hope nobody orders a cake till folks can settle down to normal again. You can't make a pretty cake, when it has to be flat and cut into samples and put in satin boxes, like this of yours. I used to make them three tiers high. I used a six quart pan for the bottom, a four quart for the middle, and a one quart for the top. I decorated them with roses and wreaths, and put a little bride and groom on the top. Them was cakes. Nowadays, young folks get married at the court house and hustle off, with no reception or old shoes or rice. Somehow they don't seem like weddings at all." "Miss Jeanette," in her eagerness, Cherry put her elbow into the batter spoon, "do you mean honest, if you lit that lantern you'd get a husband? It sounds like the Arabian Nights, where the boy rubbed the magic lamp. A match to a wick, and Presto! A bride!" Miss Jeanette smiled, but with a grim, stubborn, 'I won't-give-in' expression. "If I set that lighted lantern in my window to-night, I'd have a would-be-husband in an hour." "Let's do it!" cried the undaunted Cherry. "We could have a double wedding. There's cake a plenty, and the bower is made. And you'd be beautiful, too. If you'd take those choker collars off your housedresses, and let your curls run wild. Let me light it, Miss Jeanette. Now! Please!" "I guess not!" Forgetting the wiggly floor, Jeanette rose to her full height and looked so stern that Cherry subsided. "I don't send for any man because I need him. That I might want him is a different matter. If he wants me, let him come here. "You see Cherry, it was before Father died, when you were a little girl. We got to going out together, and we'd a been married all right, but Father got dreadful sick and took a terrible dislike to Martin. He was unreasonable. Wouldn't say why he didn't like him. Just told him to go and never come back. I fancy he was afraid Martin would take me away from him, when he needed me so. Father was that sick you couldn't argue with him, so Martin left. He was proud too. He never forgot the things Father said to him. He never come back till Father died. After the funeral, he come to see me and he brought two lanterns with red globes. He says: 'Jeanette, here are two lanterns with red globes. You keep one and I'll keep one. It's too soon after your sorrow to talk of marriage, but when you need me, put your lantern in your window, and I'll come. If I need you, I'll light mine.' That was seven years ago." "And you never sent for him?" Cherry was incredulous. "I'd have brought Ken back the next night." "I take it down to clean the shelf and I put it back. Once I changed the oil." "And you eat alone three times a day," cried Cherry, to whom solitude would mean death. "And you go out and work for other folks and make your own fires and carry your own coal. Oh, it's too foolishly proud. You silly old dears. What does he do?" "He gardens and lives alone, and pretends to keep house after work. His washings look scandalous. His dish towels show he never boils 'em." "Doesn't he ever come to see you?" demanded Cherry, whose curiosity was insatiable. "Every Christmas he sends twenty-four sacks of kindling. All cut fine and laid straight. It lasts all year. I got half a sack still. When the snow is real deep, I often find a path to the door. Every Christmas, I send him twenty-four pairs of new socks." "Both of you come home late at night to cold, cheerless houses," Cherry's fancy was active. "No suppers. No fires. You earn your own bread and butter, and he tries to wash his own clothes. You could have geraniums in his windows and white dish towels and oodles of good things to eat. Wedding cake every night. Aren't you ever going to light that lantern?" "He said, 'when you need me, I'll come.' So long as the good Lord gives me health and work to do, I don't need a man," persisted the Irish-Scotch combination. Her lips set in such a hard, straight line that even the romantic Cherry knew why the Irish-Scotch pioneers conquered the wilderness. They couldn't be driven, they never admitted defeat. Could they be outwitted? Thus pondered Cherry, looking more serious than befitted a bride. Her incessant questions ceased as she wiped the mixing bowls and watched the satisfied expression on Miss Jeanette's face as the perfectly shaped, aromatic cakes were set to cool. "I'll only make one more," persisted Miss Jeanette, "And I hope it ain't ordered flat like this one." MR. MARTIN LADD, gardener for the big hospital, knew the ways of plants, but not of women. His tulips grew long stemmed and velvet petalled. His lawns were free from noxious weeds. No yellow blight ever infested his carefully trimmed shrubbery. He knew that cedar trees must have wind and open spaces, but he did not know that a woman can appear stubborn, and still be hungry for love. He knew that flowers can be blighted with too much water, but he did not know that a woman never wearies of being courted. He knew that gladiola stalks must never be cut close to the tender bulb, but he did not realize that a woman could be shrinking and timid, like his pansies and violets, or easily wounded. When his soups curdled and pancakes burned, he looked longingly towards Jeanette's north window, visible two blocks away, across lots. It never occurred to Martin Ladd that marriage was a matter of love and not necessity; that it was the masculine prerogative to press his courtship. Jeanette's father had ordered him away. So Martin Ladd awaited Jeanette's summon to return. He had never heard of the caveman's style of courtship. Also, he looked on dumbfounded, at the modern flapper's skilled method of "getting her man." Until Jeanette sent for him, as he had told her to do, Martin Ladd lived alone, struggling vainly with burned kettles, holey socks and dish towels that refused to whiten. THE Barton-Merrick society wedding was a huge success. A palm bower hid the orchestra and all agreed the bride was the loveliest, and her veil the longest of the season. The tiny boxes, containing Miss Parsons' famed wedding cake, created a sensation. Maidens saved them to tuck under pillows. Men said the samples were good and asked for real slices. The gifts were acknowledged, although Mrs. Barton felt nervous about the donors. Glimpses of Jeanette Parsons out in the kitchen, serving the luncheon for two hundred guests, and a vision of the dark, cold house to which she must return, filled the new Mrs. Kenneth J. Merrick with remorse. Mr. Kenneth J. Merrick was an indulgent husband. He was earnestly anxious to grant any reasonable request his wife might make. But this sudden determination of hers to re-visit Mr. Martin Ladd, the bachelor-gardener, seemed rather absurd. Especially on their own wedding night, when they were supposed to be fleeing from pursuing friends. He tried reason and logic. "You see dear," he expostulated, "you and I are so newly married, it seems wonderful. It's hard for us to imagine any happiness except in marriage. But really, they're both old enough to know their own minds. Match makers never get thanked." "If you could see the washings he puts out and the coal she has to break and carry, and the cold, dark houses each returns to at night," interrupted Cherry, "you'd feel differently. He hasn't got a curtain to a window, nor a tablecloth to his name. His sink is never empty of dirty dishes. He's half converted already. I saw him again last night." Young Mr. Merrick sighed and capitulated. Cherry was small and amiable, but when she set her mind to a thing, you might as well give in. Besides, those hilarious friends would never think of finding them at the residence of Mr. Martin Ladd, gardener. Two days before Christmas, Jeanette Parsons received a telegram. Paid. Needing no answer. Her fingers trembled as she signed the receipt and tore the yellow envelope. Since the tense days of the World War, few messengers found their way to her quiet street. "Well of all the nonsense!" she ejaculated after a first hurried reading. "That rattle-brained youngster. Marriage ain't calmed her down one bit." "A friend of Mr. Merrick's has ordered your fiftieth cake. Make it in tiers with wreaths and roses and bride and groom. Price no object. Wedding Christmas Eve." "Cherry." "I'll do nothing of the sort!" Jeanette spoke to her canary, for lack of a better audience. "This will be one whim of Cherry Barton's which ain't going to be gratified. I've no time to bake cakes. Buying two dozen socks in the Christmas jam ain't a joke." But even as she spoke she went to her pantry. "There's plenty of butter and pineapple, but I'll need raisins and eggs. Wonder who it is that's got sense enough to order a real old fashioned wedding cake." With rapid precision she assembled the mixing bowl and chopper, the egg beater and sieve,?and reached far back into the cupboard for the long disused quart pans. As she prepared to go shopping, she set the butter on the warming oven to soften and glancing towards the red lantern she muttered, "the last cake I will ever make." CHRISTMAS EVE found Miss Parsons unwontedly tired. The cake ornament had been difficult to find. She had searched from store to store, through the scurrying, jostling crowds. But the finished cake gave her much satisfaction. It looked so much nicer than Cherry's. The rose and wreath frosting, the broadcloth groom and satin bride. Mrs. Barton sent her chauffeur for the cake early in the evening. But he knew nothing of the sudden order for wedding cake. All he could do was to hand over a generous check, and the mystery of the cake remained unexplained. Somehow, Miss Jeanette felt loath to part with this last cake. It seemed like a part of herself, leaving the little house forever. Alone in the early twilight of Christmas Eve, with her cards all mailed and her few packages delivered, Jeanette felt lonely. She thought of Martin Ladd. He had broken a time honored custom. The twenty-four sacks of kindling had not arrived, and she had used her last few sticks for the morning fire. Unless she could find a box to crack, Christmas morning would find her without a fire. She glanced again at the waiting lantern and forced a grim smile. Just what was the full definition of the word need? Wearily she prepared for bed. Her galoshes were wet, her skirts damp from shopping in the storm. She snapped off her light and raised her north blind. Following the custom of seven years, she glanced towards Martin Ladd's home, two blocks away. Sometimes she had seen a yellow gleam, more often a black blur. For Martin retired early. Tonight a steady red flame glowed in his window. "Humph!" sniffed Jeanette, angered at the quickening of her heartbeat, 'just some of them auto lovers. Wonder they don't freeze. So busy courting, they forgot to turn off their rear light." She hurried into bed, turned her back to the red beacon and counted to one hundred. Not by fives and tens, but in the slow methodical manner she had used in counting the cups of flour. When her Irish heart had succeeded in overcoming her Scotch stubborness, she turned again to the fascinating glow. It was still there. Martin's signal of distress. After seven years, he had found need for the waiting woman. Thank Heaven, the long duress was ended. He was ill of course. That explained the non-appearance of the kindling. With hands that trembled, she lit her own lantern, watched the long disused wick splutter and flicker before spreading to a steady flame. In her excitement, she donned a short sleeved, V-necked dress that she seldom wore. She would carry the lantern to guide her way. She could not spare time to follow the sidewalk around the block. Her galoshes, coat and lantern, and she was ready. Martin needed her, she must hurry. Across lots was quicker. The irrigation canal had a little bridge, which the lantern would locate for her. The wide corn field held no menace. Perhaps Martin had pneumonia, he used to have a troublesome cough. He didn't take proper care of himself. Men who lived alone seldom did. The snow was deep, there was no trace of a path. Only the red glow of the lantern to guide her. 700 She missed the foot bridge and fell prone in the soft, snow-filled ditch. The lantern rolled from her grasp, sputtered and went out. The stark, grotesque corn stalks seemed like accusing sentinels. Wet and breathing heavily, she stumbled up to Martin Ladd's kitchen door. Every blind was tightly drawn. The lantern between the blind and window was the only sign of occupancy. Jeanette rapped sharply and called "Martin! Martin, open the door!" Receiving no answer, she boldly turned the knob and walked in. With the V-necked dress revealing the curves of her throat and her brown curls disheveled and wet, Jeanette Parsons looked young again, as she stepped into the presence of Mr. And Mrs. Kenneth J. Merrick, the county clerk and his wife, and Martin Ladd. Not a sick Martin. In fact, a very radiant Martin, dressed in his best. A Martin that smiled his love, extended his arms unashamed, "Jeanie, my dear, I more than need you; I love you." The stubborn reserve withered before his warm smile, and Jeanette accepted his embrace as her just due. "You're wet!" cried Martin with real concern. He pushed her into a rocker, removed the galoshes and the wet shoes, and drew the chair to the fire. He rubbed her damp curls with his handkerchief, as tenderly as if she had been some rare, imported flower. 'We're being married right now," he whispered, 'with Ken and Cherry as witnesses." In the curtainless room, wearing Martin's house slippers, and her curls wandering as_ they chose, Miss Jeanette Parsons became 'Mrs. Martin Ladd. "For richer, for poorer; for better tor RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE worse; throughout our lives." The solemn tones of the clerk's voice filled the little room. In spite of the different environment, it was really like Cherry's fashionable wedding. Just as solemn and portentous. Ken handed Martin a ring and as Martin slipped it on her finger, he kissed her boldly and whispered, "I never knew you could be so pretty. You look like a daisy bud!" To hide her emotions Cherry kept up a running fire of conversation, and opened the door to Martin's one best room. There stood the last, the fiftieth cake the center of a sumptuous wedding feast. The frosting was uncracked, the bride and groom still wore their unalterable smiles. "We missed Niagara Falls to get here for this," volunteered Kenneth J. Merrick. "We came home by air plane and nearly froze," laughed Cherry. "She got her way," smiled Ken. "Take a tip from me, Martin. Pull a tight rein from the very beginning, before she gets the upper hand. I'm henpecked already." At midnight, Mr. And Mrs. Martin Ladd were left alone. As they stood at the door, bidding their guests good night, the bells began to herald the glorious anniversary. "Peace on earth, good will to men!" quoted Jeanette. "Peace on earth, good wife for me!" paraphrased Martin. Back in the house again, Mrs. Ladd cast an appraising glance over her new domain. It was indeed a sorry sight of poor housekeeping. "I'll wash them windows and hang curtains; that stove needs polish so bad, it's a disgrace. I don't suppose you ever use milk on your linoleum, do you Martin? And them dish towels ain't fit for a thing on earth except stove rags!" "All that you may, and I'll bring some potted flowers from the greenhouse," replied Martin. "But first of all, I want to tell you about the kindling, I didn't forget the kindling, Jeanie. I made bold to look in your coalhouse last night and see you had enough for your fire. I knew you wouldn't be needing any for Christmas morning. It's all piled neat and tidy in our shed."