VOL. XVIII APRIL, 1931 No. 4 EDITORIAL Easter THROUGHOUT Christendom again is celebrated Eastertide. The glad message, "He is risen," rings out from choir and pulpit. Again is told to reverent worshippers the story of his victory over death and the grave, and in glad exultation people remember that because he arose they too shall come forth from the tomb. What dramatic contrasts the crucifixion and resurrection offer. Midst brutal jeers and cruel suffering, with all the contumely that scoffers could think of, he was led to the hill of crucifixion. He endured the sarcasm and scorn of the soldiers, a crown of thorns was placed on his head, a purple cloak was flung around his shoulders in derision of his kingship. He was scourged and hailed in mockery, "King of the Jews." "Ha, thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days, save thyself and come down from the cross." His divinity showed itself when under such treatment he could fervently pray, "Father, forgive them; they know not what they do." Then came the final agony and the lingering death. His torn flesh, his cramped muscles, the weight of his body pulling against the nails, tortured him almost beyond endurance, and in agony he cried out, "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" Then came the final glorious, victorious cry, 'Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit." Night descended. The three crosses stood out in bold relief on Calvary. 228 The disciples assembled. What could they say to one another? Jesus whom they had expected to redeem Israel was gone; all their hopes had vanished. AS soon as the first day of the week dawned, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary hastened to the sepulchre. They were fearful when they saw the stone rolled away, but an angel whose countenance was like lightning and whose raiment was white as snow, said to them, "Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you." (Matt. 28:5-7.) Joy winged their feet as they hastened to proclaim the great message. On the way Jesus saluted them with "All hail." As they worshipped at his feet, he said unto them, "Be not afraid: go tell my brethren that they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me. (Matt. 28:10.) When the eleven disciples went into Galilee, as directed, Jesus appeared among them and they worshipped him. Then he gave them this wonderful commission: "All RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world." (Matt. 28:18-20.) Eight days passed. Again he visited his assembled disciples. To the doubting Thomas he said, "Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hand, and thrust it into my side: and be not faithless, but believing." A third time, at the sea of Tiberias, he visited his disciples, and through following his instructions, their net was so filled with fish that they could not draw it. After dining with them, he asked Peter, "Lovest thou me more than these?" "Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee," said the disciple. As a test of his love he was admonished, "Feed my lambs," and to make as emphatic as possible that this was the test of true love, a second and third time he admonished, 'Feed my sheep." Thus again and again did the risen Lord appear to his loved apostles, giving proof that he had indeed risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that sleep. Anna Garlin Spencer if the passing of Anna Garlin Spencer a most inspiring leader left us. She has been a pillar of strength to the National Council of Women of the United States, and has been a potent factor in advancing its purposes. Although past eighty years of age, she was the outstanding figure at the Council gathering held February 3 and 4, 1931. Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, president of the National Council of Women, pays her this tribute: "The National Council of Women has suffered a great loss in the death of its beloved leader, Dr. Anna Garlin Spencer. Her love for the Council through many years of invaluable service, tirelessly given, and her hopes for its future will serve as a perpetual memorial and EDITORIAL source of inspiration to those of us who follow humbly in her footsteps, with the light of her great vision to serve as our guide, and the memory of her enthusiasm to spur us on to greater effort." All those who have represented the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and the Relief Society at National Council gatherings have come home with words of praise and love for this able, distinguished and understanding woman.* She was interested in all that pertains to the welfare of mankind. An able writer, a forceful speaker, she championed many causes and helped to establish better conditions. At her funeral, Dr. Lon R. Call said: 229 "Such people never die. In our own lives we give them immortality. Let us arise and take up the work they have left unfinished, and preserve the treasures they have won, and round out the circuit of their being to the fulness of an ampler orbit in our own. Such an effort on our part will be our best tribute. Thereby the force and flow of their action and work may be carried over. The gulfs of death and made immortal in the true and healthy life which they worthily had and used. "When are the good so powerful to guide and to quicken as after death has withdrawn them from us, when we feel that the seal is set upon what was made perfect in their souls? They take their place like stars in a region of purity and peace." Another Victory for the Eighteenth Amendment Some time ago Federal Judge William Clark of New Jersey startled the country by claiming that the eighteenth amendment had been improperly ratified. We rejoice that the Supreme Court of the United States has vigorously and emphatically upheld the constitutionality of the amendment. We hope that in the future lawmakers everywhere will strive more vigorously to enforce this law and that its beneficial effects will be more and more widely observed. Something for nothing is not a principle of eternal justice. We pay for what we get, even from the Divine Giver?pay to the limit of our ability to pay; and He does the rest, the part that we cannot do. Parents of the wilful and the wayward! Do not give them up. Do not cast them off. They are not utterly lost. They have but strayed in ignorance from the Path of Right, and God is very merciful to ignorance. Only the fulness of knowledge brings the fulness of accountability. Our Heavenly Father is far more merciful, infinitely more charitable, than the best of his servants, and the Everlasting Gospel is mightier in power to save than our narrow, finite minds can comprehend.?From "Through Memory's Halls," by O. F. Whitney. *In a later issue of our Magazine Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman will give a sketch of her life.
