
EASTER MORNING From an Engraving by P. Habelmann, after the Painting by B. Plockhorst THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XVIII The Spirit of Easter By George H. Brimhall President Emeritus, Brigham Young University No matter though the sky be dark On Easter Sunday morn, The season call for nesting lark Or harvesting of corn. No matter though the Easter feast. Be in the tent or grove Or gilded hall or shine of east Its spirit must be love. And gladness shall be hostess there And Faith and Hope shall sing Sweet Gratitude a crown shall wear And Good-will shall be King. HE thought behind the spirit of Easter antedates mortality. The resurrection was planned before the world was made, and its revelation to man runs concurrent with the life of the race. "For behold, this is my work and my glory to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man."' These are the words of the Lord to Moses, in the Book of Moses, as a in the Pearl of Great Price The soul of man becomes immortal through the resurrection or the reuniting of the spirit and body. The life worth living becomes eternal through the infinite extension of liberty and the pursuit of happiness. In this revelation the resurrection ls made one of the two great objectives of the Lord's work with the inhabitants of this earth. And in the presence of the plan the parents of the human race were filled with gratitude and gladness, as shown in the following: 'And. In that day Adam blessed God and was filled, and began to prophesy concerning all the families of the earth, saying: Blessed be the name of God for because of my transgression my eyes are opened, and in this life I shall have joy and again in the flesh I shall see God. And Eve, his wife, heard all these things and was glad." Do we not have here in spirit the first celebration of the prospective resurrection? Out of the depths of sorrow and woe Job arose to the apex of gratitude and gladness, for the hour of his greatest exultation is seen in his testimony of the resurrection: "Oh that my words were now written! Oh that they were printed in a book! That they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever! For I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth: And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall
APRIL, 1931 No. 4
192
I see God." This is gratitude and gladness at high tide.
The Spirit of Easter is fostered by cumulative evidence. Some of the occurrences of the first Easter Sunday are recorded by Luke. On that first Easter angels from the tomb declared his resurrection, and it was there that Mary met him. On his way to Emmaus he reviewed the prophecies fulfilled through his advent from the grave, and revealed himself to two disciples while at meat. He met with his apostles and gave them physical proof of his resurrection by showing them his hands and feet. These events and more are but one day's evidence that the resurrection was a physical reality. Christians revere Christmas and Easter as the two great days of the year. And of the two "Easter is greater, for it represents not merely life, but life victorious; not merely joy, but joy that has been tested and yet endures. The happiness of Christmas is the happiness of the child. The happiness of Easter is the happiness of maturity. Christmas represents the faith that faces life like the happy warrior. Easter represents faith that has been through the battle like the veteran. He who thinks that to be wise is to be sophisticated, and therefore cynical, has not graduated from the school of life."* "The assurance of immortality
*The Outlook for March 31, 1926.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
alone is not enough. For if we are told that we are to live forever and still left without the knowledge of a personal God, eternity stretches before us like a boundless desert, a perpetual and desolate orphanage. It is the Divine Companionship that the Spirit needs first of all and most deeply."—Henry Van Dyke. "Not another day of the year comes upon the earth with such universal acceptance as Easter. Although every Sabbath day is now changed to be a day of rejoicing for the resurrection of the Son of God, yet this is the annual and all-inclusive day, and is the Sunday of Sundays, which proclaims the resurrection of Christ from the dead with sounding joy and sympathy of the whole Christian world. Christ is risen! There is life, therefore, after death! His resurrection is the symbol and pledge of universal resurrection!"—Henry Ward Beecher. "You will be brought forth from death to life again, just as surely as Christ was brought forth from death to life."—Joseph F. Smith. The spirit of Easter is one of humility void of humiliation. The egg is symbolic of a life potentiality within, awaiting a something from without to complete the possibility of life. No egg can hatch itself, no one alone can be resurrected. In the presence of this knowledge the spirit of Easter is one of happy humility, and leads one to ask, "O why should the spirit of mortal be proud?"
Tears
By Vesta Pierce Crawford
Once I thought that nothing was So cool as April rain, So cool as winter snow against a window pane!
Once I thought that nothing was So cool as ocean spray, So cool as pebbled streams in caroled May!
But sorrow-crowned have come the years And I have felt the touch of tears, Their utter sharpness in a silent place. Cold, wet tears brushed from my face!

