Of Interest to Women By Lalene H. Hart Will you print in The Magazine a recipe for doughnuts which will keep moist several days? A recipe contributed by one of our readers is a good one, and will no doubt serve your purpose: 1 cup hot mashed potatoes. 1 cup sugar. 11/2 cup sour milk or buttermilk. 2 eggs. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 1/2 teaspoon soda. 2 1/2 teaspoon baking powder. 1/2 teaspoonful salt. 1/2 teaspoonful nutmeg. Flour enough to make a soft dough. Fry in deep fat until brown, with | a piece of potato the size of a walnut to prevent the fat from burning. ?Mrs. A. V. M., Richmond, Utah. Left over bits of pie crust can be rolled thin and baked over muffin pan or small moulds. They are nice and convenient for serving peas or any other vegetable in individual dishes, or they may be used for salad on a lettuce leaf. When celery is scarce, crisp cabbage chopped or shredded and used with a generous portion of celery seed, makes a good substitute in salads. Remove the stones from large prunes which have been cooked a long time, but slowly, so they are plump but not broken. Fill cavities with pieces of sliced pineapple and cottage cheese and serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing to which whipped cream has been added. Any tart jelly may be used in place of the pineapple. Spiced vinegar which is poured over sweet mixed pickles, added to crushed or shredded mint makes an excellent mint sauce to serve with lamb. It also saves time in preparation. Since the lace and ribbon-trimmed basket, lined with pink or blue silk, is not practical for baby's toilet articles, I wondered what I could use. While preparing the little things for the new baby I made a very handy bag similar to a wall pocket, except it is made to fit over the back of a chair. Use a piece of cloth twenty-seven inches long, and the width of the chair to be used. Fold back at the top a flap about five inches wide. At the bottom of the cloth that hangs down, stitch on a larger pocket and run elastic through the hem edge. This will hold diapers, bands, stockings, booties, etc. Above this, sew on three smaller pockets 
 which can be used for talcum powder, cotton and other small articles. Attach a small pin cushion with ribbons or a safety pin, so it can be removed when th? bag is laundered. Dainty flowered ticking or nursery cretonne can be used. I used unLleached muslin and bound the bag with pink bias tape. It can be made as plain or fancy as desired. It is easily washed when soiled, and when not in use can be folded and put in a drawer or chest with baby's clothes?Mrs. R. J. H., Salt Lake City. When building a house or remodeling an old one have your architect plan a chute where it will be convenient for all rooms and will carry the soiled clothes to the laundry. Or if the laundry is on the main floor, plan it in such a way as to have a space two by three feet between hall and laundry. Divide this space into two parts, upper and lower, with doors in each part that will open both ways into hall and laundry. Place shelves in the upper part. This will enable you to put the soiled clothes in the lower part from the hall and remove them in the laundry on washday. Then when ironing and folding clean clothes in the laundry place them on the shelves in the upper part. They can be taken out through the doors opening into hall when needed. This saves time and steps.?Mrs. M. P., Ogden, Utah. ' When the men folks' trousers are yet new, I cut a strip about one inch wide and four inches long from the wrist of an old kid glove and sew it on the inside of the trouser leg at the bottom. This keeps the heel of the shoe from rubbing a hole in the cloth and keeps the trousers from having that shabby and worn look at the bottom.? Mrs. W. J., Rexburg, Idaho. So many people dislike using pyrex for cooking, because it burns so easily. I have used it for eight, years and still it looks live new. I grease the top of the dish to be used then lay a strip of waxed paper cut two inches wide and length desired, around the top of the dish. This keens the food from burning on the dish and the paper can be readily removed before the food is served. Paper from cracker boxes may be utilized for this purpose?Mrs. T. F. W., Salt Lake City, Utah. ' Over your desk or kitchen table, or wherever most needed, bang a five-cent funnel painted in the color that harmonizes best with other furnishings, to hold a ball of twine. It can be hung by its ring and will be one of the most useful conveniences imaginable?Mrs. L. F., Salt Lake City, Utah.