3 EDITORIAL Harking Back to the Spirit of 1842 As we write this editorial a grateful nation is bowing in sorrow and respectful homage over a great character. Tomorrow the king and the queen of the Belgians will follow afoot in the solemn procession leading from the station, in the city of Brussels, to the great cathedral where a national funeral service will be conducted in honor of Cardinal Mercier, the great churchman of the great war. The honor accorded him is in every way unusual; only three times has such an honor been accorded, i the past, and then always for unusual service. But in the highest sense of the word Cardinal Mercier was himself unusual. Unusual in his personality, unusual in the service he rendered to humanity in a great crisis. It has been stated many times that one of the surprises of the last war was that so few individuals were projected into prominence. An exception to this rule was that of the great Roman Catholic churchman whose soul vibrated with love for the men in the trenches and with extraordinary patriotism for the allied cause. He was in a sense the heart of Belgium during the war. His _ 
 soul, overflowing with love and blessing, his hand extended in need, brought forth appreciation so unstinted that his name has become a household word, not only in his native land, vut in the uttermost parts of the earth. A dynamic force for good, there is no pushing aside such as he. Like Florence Nightingale, whose fame grew out of the Crimean war and has increased with passing years, this Cardinal, whose courage was almost unbelieveable and whose service entirely unforgetable, will, we believe, have ever increasing fame. His very name suggests mercy. As a representative of the Christ whose follower he believed himself to be, he certainly magnified the teachings of the great Master by feeding his sheep. It was in the spirit of high service to humanity that the Relief Society was organized in 1842, now 84 years ago. When it was organized it was a movement fostered almost solely by religion; today both science and sociology have made their valuable contributions to make the work more efficient and more effective. If the work of one person who ministers to the unfortunate can challenge the attention of a world, what think ye will be the fate of an organization composed of many gifted individuals whose work is devoted to similar relief? Twentieth Century Queens Recently Queen Alexandra, of England, the mother of the present king, passed away. The press had scarcely ceased commenting on her virtues when word reached us that Queen Margherita, the mother of Italy's king, had been summoned by death. In newspaper accounts that have appeared in relation to these two women, the thing that has been emphasized is the fact that they fostered many charities. Their hearts were constantly turned toward people who needed relief. It is a very different Picture to the one frequently painted of "Good Queen Bess," moving from castle to castle in splendor, or floating down the Thames in an elaborately decorated barge. Queen Alexandra was beautiful. It is recorded that Lord Palmerston, who was Prime M?nister at the time of her bethrothal to Edward, the young Prince of Wales, said in Parliament that the wife of the prince must be young and beautiful and a Protestant. Princess Alexandra fulfilled all three requirements. Her advent into England was hailed with delight. She never did lose her beauty, but the people of her realm for many years have not been primarily interested in her good EDITORIAL 125 looks, but rather in her many acts of charity. At the coronation of her son, the present king of England, she drew attention to the fact that the lot of the English policeman would of necessity be very hard during the coronation week, consequently she contributed 1000 pounds to be distributed. Among them as extra pay for extra service. Finally the nation selected a day which they called Alexandra Day. The queen's outstanding request was that this day bearing her name should be observed by her many subjects in tangible remembrance of the particular charity in which they were most interested. Service to others, a desire to meet the many social problems of her realm intelligently and kindly, seemed to be the uppermost thought in her heart. Blessed in her birth, blessed in her marriage, blessed, in the people over whom she was called to reign, she reciprocated in full measure by showering blessings upon her people. The story of Queen Margherita's life while it does not parallel in actual details that of Queen Alexandra, is, nevertheless, very similar, as her Majesty seemed to have in mind the alleviation of suffering among her own greatly gifted people. These are the queens of modern days. Surely the world goeth forward and truly such queens are not beloved and honored without cause. "As gracious as a queen," is a popular adage, more than gracious were both the English and the Italian queens in their lives; consequently they are greatly beloved by their people. John Drinkwater's Great: Lyric Few evenings devoted to lyceum numbers have been appreciated as fully as the evening in Salt Lake City when John Drinkwater read a group of his lyrics and told his audience why the life work of Abraham Lincoln and of Robert E. Lee appealed to him as suitable material for the two dramas bearing respectively the names of Abraham Lincoln and Robert E. Lee. Among other lyrics Mr. Drinkwater read one entitled "Jmmortality,' in which he projects the thought that in the world to come it would be possible for men living now to walk with Julius Caesar in the streets of Rome and with St. Paul upon the Strand. This poem was very greatly appreciated by Mr. Drinkwater's audience. It is a very natural supposition that persons of all ages of the world's history will mingle together in that life we often designate as the future life. Such an idea is not disturbing to a Latter-day Saint who has been taught all his life that this earth will eventually be a heaven to those who have dwelt upon it and have proved worthy of it as a place of abode. The 
 touch added by mentioning a familiar city and the name of a familiar street suggests a continuation of this life in a perfectly natural way. If earthly things typify heavenly things, then it is consistent and natural to believe that we shall hark back upon this earthly experience in that great life towards which we are all sojourning.