Spirituality, the Need of the Hour By Julia A, F. Lund, Member of the General Board A study of history reveals the fact that it took all the ages of the past to set the stage for the twentieth century. It may be truly said, that in the world of science and of material things, mankind never before aimed so high, planned so profoundly, or achieved so splendidly. The wildest dreams of our forefathers are commonplace realities today! Yet, even as we think of these marvels,, another thought presents itself for consideration—never was there a time except it be in centuries far in the past when men and nations were less sure of themselves, when doubt and uncertainty were so much in the air; when a clear sense of values seemed to be so surely lacking, when crime and disregard for law pevailed, so generally and when the source of proper guidance was so deliberately overlooked. The question is asked, where is to be found that stabilizing influence, that vital force, upon which civilization itself depends, the need of this hour,—Spirituality? And the beautiful words of Kipling's "Recesstonal" always present themselves in answer: "Lord God of hosts, be with us yet, Lest we forget—lest we forget!" History is a prophet of the future and a teacher of the present, out of the wealth of the past. The lesson is written everywhere that the enduring things of this life are those with a spiritual uplift, in ethics, in music, in art, in national development, in literature. Spirituality is the soul of civilization, the soil from which ideals spring and without ideals life would be one dreary, barren waste. It has been said by one great historian that the greatest contribution of the ancient to the modern world, is the Jewish conception of Jehovah, as expressed through the Bible. No learned Editors' Note: This address was delivered by Mrs. Lund in the conventions she attended, Spirituality the Need of the Hour was one of the eps of last season's conventions. 
 man seriously discredits the value of the Bible, but many insist that its great value lies in its history, philosophy, law and ethics, hence they minimize its spiritual influence. We know this can not be true for the foundation upon which the whole structure of Hebrew life and writing was founded was spiritual guidance under the hand of Jehovah himself. One of the most majestic figures in history is Moses, skilled in all the learning of the Egyptians and the world of his day; the greatest law giver of any day! The closing stanzas of Deuteronomy tell why the voice of Moses is still heard in the land: And there arose not a prophet since in Israel like unto Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face." Job, the great word drama of the Bible, has been reckoned one of the greatest works of moral philosophy ever written. The reasoning of Elihu, Eliphaz, Bildad and Jophar is wonderful and profound—but that which is of infinitely more value than all the rest, and rings clear through all the ages, bringing faith and hope to the stricken heart, is Job's own cry—"I know that my Redeemer liveth." David was a mighty figure, from the shepherd boy to the great Philistine conqueror. Yet it is not for his royal splendor, as the founder of Jerusalem that one thinks of him today, but as the "sweet singer of Israel, the greatest of lyric poets, who sang, "The Lord is my Shepherd, I shall not want." No doubt the most complete expression of what spirituality means to mankind can be found recorded in the words and life of the Master himself. Every page of the New Testament breathes forth that spiritual fire. As a specific example, there is nothing better than Christ's reply to Satan in the first Temptation, when the devil suggested the turning of stones into bread. The Savior's reply was not only a stinging rebuke to the powers of evil, but a clear declaration of an immortal truth: "It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." Christ was the embodiment of spiritual power and every word he uttered seemed to vitalize that force. "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you," epitomized John's reaction to Christ's teachings—and it was the burden of his message to the world. Turn for a moment to literature and it will be evident that its life is spirituality. Dante, said by some critics to be the greatest intellect that ever touched literature, built the whole structure of his mighty topic upon a spiritual conception. This is strikingly true of Milton, our own great English epic poet. No finer sermon on resignation was ever given to the world than Milton's Sonnet on his blindness. In every drama from the pen of Shakespeare, the world's greatest dramatist, one perceives SPIRITUALITY THE NEED OF THE HOUR 117 a recognition of the deep spiritual forces so potent in life. The temptation to quote is great but time forbids. But "read from the Grand old Masters, read from the bards sublime," and it is very evident why, "their footsteps echo through the corridors wf time." It was Dr. Van Dyke who said that the men who had been responsible for shaping the politics of this nation had relied upon the inspiration of Almighty God to direct them in their work. It is a pleasing and suggestive picture presented by our Pilgrim Fathers as they landed on the New England shore, and falling on their knees, they invoked God's guidance in this new land to which they had come. There is perhaps no more splendid and satisfying conception of Washington expressed than can be found in the writings of Thackeray, the great English novelist. Again and again he expresses his profound admiration for our great national hero, in words similar to these: "Through all the doubt and darkness, the danger and long tempest of the war, I think it was only the American leader's indomitable soul that remained entirely steady." Washington's own writings convey the information that it was his constant reliance upon his Creator, that was the never-failing source of comfort and guidance through all the "dark hours" of his life. It has always been a matter of national pride, to express the thought that both the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States were inspired by God. Certainly the framers of those immortal documents claimed such a source of inspiration. Read the words of the venerable Franklin himself: "Mr. President, the small progress we have made after four or five weeks' close attendance and continual reasonings with one another, our different sentiments on almost every question, several of the last producing as many no's as aye's, are, we think, a melancholy proof of the imperfection of the human understanding. In this situation of this assembly, groping, as it were, in the dark, to find political truth, and scarce able to distinguish it when presented to us, how has it happened, sir, that we have not hitherto once thought of humbly applying to the Father of light to illuminate our understandings? In the beginning of the contest with Great Britain when we were sensible of danger, we had daily prayer in this room for divine protection. Our prayers, sir, were heard and they were graciously answered. All of us who were engaged in the struggle must have observed frequent instances of superintending Providence in our favor. To that kind Providence we owe this happy opportunity of consulting in peace on the means of establishing our future national felicity. And have we forgotten that powerful Friend? Or do we imagine 
 that we no longer need his assistance? I have lived, sir, a long time, and the longer I live the more convincing proofs I see of this truth that God governs in the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid? We have been assured, sir, in the sacred writings, that 'except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it. I firmly believe this! I also believe that without his concurring aid, we shall succeed, in this political building no better than the builders of Babel. I therefore beg leave to move that, henceforth, prayers imploring the assistance of heaven, and its blessings on our deliberations, be held in this assembly every morning before we proceed to business." One great appeal in all of Lincoln's writings is the pure spirituality. His farewell words to the citizens of Springfield are a fine example: "I now leave, not knowing when or whether ever I may return, with a task before me greater than that which rested upon Washington. Without the assistance of that Divine Being who ever attended him, I can not succeed. With that assistance I can not fail. Trusting in him who can go with me, and remain with you, and be everywhere for good, let us confidently hope that all will yet be well. To his care commending you, as I hope in your prayers you will commend me, I bid you an affectionate farewell." In the labors of our own prophet, we recognize the genius of mighty leadership. He set the whole world against him, by claiming revelation direct from God. The interview of Josiah Quincy with Joseph Smith, which is to be found in The Figures of The Past, is most interesting. Mr. Quincy described the prophet very happily, and summed up his conclusions in words to this effect: "I have faithfully described this man as I found him, but I do not attempt to explain him—to his enemies he is an imposter, to his people he is a prophet—make of him what you will—imposter or prophet, I only know that he has answered the burning questions of this age as no other man has even attempted to do." Spirituality is the light and life of the gospel work today. It is the only source of guidance that, in this period of doubt and uncertainty, remains entirely steady. Men have tried to "live by bread alone," and the alarming problems of the day are the result. The world is starving for spiritual food. We may take courage when we think that the beautiful words of Lowell apply today as they did when they were written: "Truth forever on the scaffold, Wrong forever on the throne, But the scaffold sways the future, And behind the dim unknown, Standeth God within the shadow, Keeping watch above his own."