VOL. 8.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1879.		NO. 6.


[For the EXPONENT.
GLEAMS OF LIGHT.
There are moments, bless God, when Life's burdens
From our hearts are roiled softly away;
When we feel from our trials uplifted
As the sun o'er a cloud-darkened day.

When we feel deep within us upspringing
The fountain of gladess anew;
Its bright healing waters o'erflowing
Revive life's parched flowers like dew.

We catch the deep heart of the sunshine
to warm our chilled hopes to new life,
With quickened sense hearken the music
With which Nature's voices are rife.

We see blessings strewn all around us,
Where all seemed so barren and gray;
Where only dead leaves seemed to rustle
Our pathway with flowers is gay.

Enraptured we catch a new music
In our little ones' laughter so sweet,
And dearer than tinkling of fountains
Their restless and pattering feet.

Unnoted and unvalued blisses
We brushed like the cobwebs away,
Now dimple and smile through the darkness
In which we had thrust them away.

And even the burdens we carry—
The burdens so heavy and sore-
Finding these contain costliest treasures,
We feel they'll be heavy no more.

The language of praise springs unbidden
To lips sadly used to complain-
we think if we may be forgiven
We never will murmur again.

Sweet moments, we give you glad welcome
And longer entreat you to stay;
Glad beams from shining Hereafter
Like Angel hands beckoning away.
LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
				For the EXPONENT.
THOUGHTS ON THE POETS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Shakespeare! There is but one Shakes-
peare! he is inimitable in the full sense of
the word in every part of his life and char-
acter. Little is known of his private his-
tory, and most of that little is traditionary;
there is a mystery around him, which he
seemed desirous to enhance. He wrote his
own epitaph, and in it pronounced a curse
upon any one who should remove his body
—as he anticipated that his country would
desire to have him entombed in her national
mausoleum; respecting his strong injunc-
tion the nation satisfied itself by erecting a
monunment to him in Westminster Abbey
and the Church of Stratford, on Avon has
retained the illustrious Dead! Stratford, it is
perhaps needless to say, was his birthplace,
and a more lovely spot and all its environs
could hardly be found: it is surrounded by
immortal scenes, and edifices, Leamington
Kenilworth, Warwick Castle, Guy's Cliff,
Coventry with its immortal Lady Godiva,
and other scenes, all lovely as Eden or at
least so they seemed to me. Amid such
scenes was the immortal Bard born and
reared; these I presume were his Tutors, and
his Alma Mater; for I have never heard that
he had any other and yet what depth, what
erudition, what insight into the workings of
the human heart and brain do his works
display; there is also, as in all great writers
prophetic spirit and insight into the beyond;

[Column 2]
In his Midsummer Night's Dream these
words occur "I will girdle the Earth with a
thought." Was not such a thought the embryo
of the electric Telegraph: his works contain
his Life, his heart, his brain, his thoughts, his
feeling, his entire comprehension of human
nature, even to a marvel! his dramatic com-
positions show this, and how few can read,
and properly embody his characters. It re-
quires a John Kemble a Mrs Siddons a
Garrick, an Edmund Kean, a Charles Kean,
and his gifted wife, the imimitable Dowton
and a few others, to personate fully the
characters so few can read. Shakespeare was
a great favorite with Queen Elizabeth she
called him "Will Shakespeare and often sent
for him to Court to read his plays to her;
she also witnessed their performance as he
frequently personated his own characters.
Her box was at the side of the stage; and
she once told her Ladies, she would see if
she could not disconcert him in his character
of a King. Of course the Ladies were all on
the qui-vive to see the feint the Queen was
going to play off upon him. In making the
moves he approached the Queen's box, when
watching her opportunity she dropt her
handkerchief upon the stage; Shakespeare as
King, was surrounded by his Courtiers, and
addressing them, when the handkerchief fell
at his feet. Not losing one particle of his
kingly dignity he calmly turned to one of
the gentlemen and said "before we proceed,
pick up Our Sister's handkerchief" he neither
compromised the character he was enacting
or that of a gentlman. Though the Queen of
England and a proud Tudor she was delight-
ed at the complete embodiment the calm pres-
ence of mind and perfect realization of the
character he was sustaining which he ex-
hibited on her stratagem to throw him off
his guard. Ben Jonson was a poet and an
extraordinary wit of the day, and when he
saw Garrick perform Shylock, he exclaimed
aloud;

"This is the Jew.
That Shakespeare drew"!

Those few words are an epitome of just and
appreciative criticism both to the author,
and to the actor, and have stood as a de-
cided aphorism ever since. Shakespeare
lived in a coarse, dark age, but Shakespeare
and Elizabeth were lights in the world and
their names are among the immortals, "Not
for an age but for all time."


For the EXPONENT.
"NO OUTSIDE MEDDLERS"

	Dear EXPONENT: I have found so sweet a
morsel in a late number of the Woman's
Journal, that I long to share it with such
of your readers as do not have the pleasure
and profit of reading that valuable paper.
Allow me to quote: As to the woman ques-
ton. why not let it be a woman queston?
Why make a man question of it? Women
are competent to decide on their own course
of action. A woman can tell right from
wrong. A woman is as likely to know what
is womanly as a man is.
	Why does man step in to decide for her?
That’s what puzzles me. I am not at all
particular about voting, but what I am par-
ticular about is to know why I do not know


as well as a man does, whether or not it is
right for me to vote, or to "speak.
	"Don't suppose, now, that I wish to do any
of these things, having an outsider stepping
in between me and my conscience to trans-
sact my private business for me."
		MRS. A. M. DIAZ.
	Now I feel just as Mrs. Diaz does, because
I do wish to do these things, and I am
particular about voting; and I think it the
most arrogant presumption for man to as-
sume the right to decide all points of right
and wrong, all questions of propriety or ex-
pediency, and even what is womanly.
	Being a profound believer in reciprocal
rights and duties, I protest aganst further
allowing men's opinions to be our highest
court of appeal until they shall pay the
same high honor to our opinions. (just think,
in that case, of the vast overturning there
would be in the world's affairs!)
	Until that happy day, I insist upon my
right to have and to hold my own opinions,
and to act upon my own judgment, so long
as by doing so I do not infringe upon the
rights of others. And it is just the same in
matters of religion. For instance, I look
upon marriage as the highest and holiest of
sacraments; and when any "outsider" begins
to argue with me that marriage is not re-
ligion but only a civil contract, I want to know
who authorized him to decide for me what
is or is not religion; to settle the case bet-
ween me and my God,
	You see where it hinges, don't you? It is
having an outsider stepping in between
me and my conscience to transact my priv-
ate buisiness for me."
	L. L. D.
St George, Washington Co, U. T.


[For the EXPONENT.
THE UNKNOWN FUTURE.

	Good health is the sunshine of the body;
A cheery disposition the sunshine of the
soul; Good health and a cheery disposition
are two of the greatest blessings that we en-
joy, with out them we miss half the sweet
pleasures of life. How much sunshine there
is in a bright and hopeful disposition. Bles-
sed is the woman who possesses such a one.
She realizes every blessing and pleasure.
There is sunshine in her very presence.
What a happy world this would be if all
were to cultivate cheerfulness. Desond-
ency brings more unhappiness into our lives
than anything else, we often give way to it,
and happiness soon dies out of our hearts.
The intellect is clouded and the body, weary.
then let us overcome despondency surely to
despond is sinful we wrong ourselves and our
associates. There is too much beauty, too
much promise in this world for us to
waste the golden hours in useless repining.
The present may be dreary, and desolate,
but the future is unknown; so let us have
patience and wait for there is so much
promise and hope in the glory of the sun-
shine, in the far away gleam of the stars, in
the whisperings of the winds, in the beauty
of the earth and the glory of heaven is the 
promise of a happy life and a glorious here
after. I think we are too ready with com- 
plaint in this fair world of ours.
	Heber July 12th,			MELISSA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

ST. GEORGE STAKE.

	Third Quarter Conference of Relief So-
ciety, St. George, Stake, held in St. George
Tabernacle, Friday, June 13, 1879, Presi-
dent Minerva W. Snow, with her Counsel-
ors and the Presidents and officers of the
St. George Relief Societies were present
and a number of brethren and sisters from
the settlements, Bishops and Elders. The
business of the Conference was attended to
and many excellent remarks made by the
sisters, who felt encouraged to see so many
sisters at meeting. Bishop Henry Eyring
of St. George, and Apostle Erastus Snow
made some kind and cheering remarks en-
treating us to persevere, telling us of the
good we had done and could do to each
other, said they were pleased to hear our
remarks and reports. They felt to bless us
in our labors, and were sure that we would
be blessed.
	Statistical and Financial Reports for the
quarter ending June 13, 1878. Teachers,
91; members, 532; meetings held, 93; aver-
age attendance, 189; Woman's Exponent,
91. On hand at date of last report, cash,
$96 20; property, $4.819 38; wheat, 70
bushels. Receipts during the quarter, cash,
$35 90; property, $199 71; wheat, 5 bushels.
Disbursements during the quarter—To the 
poor, cash and property, $290 20; emigra-
tion, $20 00; to Temple, $13 50; home in-
dustries, $18 05; missionaries, $6 50; build-
ings, $138 75. On hand last quarter,
$106 35; property, $4, 066 09; wheat, 73 1/2
bushels; flour, 323 1/2 lbs
	Officers of Stake Relief Society:
		MINERVA W. SNOW, President,
	ANNA L IVINS,
 	HANNAH H. ROMNEY, Counselors.
	ELIZA S. CALKIN, Secretary,
	ELIZABETH B. BENTLEY, Ass’ t Sec.

	FAIRVIEW, July 17, 1879.
Editor Exponent:
	Our Annual Meeting was held on the 14th
of June, 1879, Sister M. A. Hyde, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of this Stake,
Sister Frantzen, President of the Relief So-
ciety of Spring City, and her Counselors,
Bros. Larsen and Frantzen, and others of
Spring City, Sister Morrison and her Coun-
selors and others from Mt Pleasant, were
present by invitation. Our President be-
ing absent on account of sickness in her
family, Bishop Tucker took charge of the
meeting. After the usual exercises and
reading of minutes, the financial report
was read as follows: Received since June,
1878, $231 20. Disbursements: Emigra-
tion, $22 75; Manti Temple, $82 00; Chari-
table purposes, $134 13; Missionaries, $5 00;
Total disbursements, $243 88; Property on
hand, $226 46; Grain stored, 372 bu.
	After the reading of the report Sister
Hyde spoke mostly to the young; said the
girls held the reins to the extent of their
influence over the young men. They
should not countenance those who use pro-
fane language or intoxicating drinks. Rec-
ommended the organization of Primary
Associations, and gave much good instruc-
tion to parents. She was followed by Sis-
ters Frantzen, Morrison, Allred, and others,
who spoke well. Bro. Larsen, of Spring City,
spoke very encouragingly; said the sisters
were doing a good work in looking after
the needy and storing grain, and the time
would come when the Relief Societies would
be considered as Saviors in Zion. Several
other brethren and sisters made some re-

[Column 2]

marks. Bishop Tucker said he thought the
time had been well spent; felt an interest
in the Relief Societies, and felt to bless all
who were working for the interest of Zion.
	It was moved and carried unanimously
that we sustain our officers as they stand.
A good spirit prevailed throughout the
meeting. Dismissed by singing by the
choir and benediction by Bro. Frantzen,after
which a picnic supper was served, when all
adjourned to the schoolhouse, where a party
was given by the Society.
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		M. A. PRITCHETT, Pres't,
		LOIS A. WILSON, Sec’y.

	PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co., IDAHO,
		July 21, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will endeavor to give you a brief sketch
of our First Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies in the Bear Lake Stake
held on the 17th and 18th of July, in the
Paris Meeting House, which was beautifully
decorated for the occasion.
	Authorities on the stand were, of the 
Presidency of the Relief Societies, Julia
P. Lindsay and her Counselors; local au-
thorities, Apostle C. C. Rich; visitors from
Salt Lake City, Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I.
Horne, S. M. Kimball and S. M. Heywood;
also Sister E. Townsend from Meadowville.
Meeting was opened in the usual manner
Pres. J. P. Lindsay occupied the stand for
a short time; said she was pleased to meet
with the sisters in the capacity of a Confer-
ence; felt great pleasure in having those
sisters from Salt Lake present, as their
presence would greatly strengthen us. The
Statistical and Financial report were then
read by Sister Alice M. Rich, Stake Secre-
tary.
	Sister E. R. Snow in her remarks spoke
of the first Relief Society organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, with its officers and
members; said no one should be admitted
as a member without a recommend. In-
structed the members to be punctual in at-
tending their meetings, and the benefit to
be derived therefrom. Said they required
spiritual as well as temporal food. Also
spoke upon the necessity of storing grain;
did not favor the idea of small bins; rec-
ommended that several of the settlements
co operate together and build at some cen-
tral point a large, substantial granary. The
material of this building should be wood,
not brick, or stone.
	Sister M. I. Horne alluded to the great
responsibilities resting upon the mothers in
Israel, also the necessity of the sisters learn-
ing to do business in a proper manner, to
educate themselves for the responsible po-
sitions they would have to fill. They should
arrange their labors so that they could at-
tend their meetings and get the Spirit of
God; it would materially help them.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m.
	Afternoon session: after the opening ex-
ercises, the Presidents of the different
wards occupied a portion of the time in
representing their societies, which were in
a prosperous condition, all striving with
due diligence to perform their duties in
this great latter-day work. Sister S. M.
Kimball in her remarks related some very
interesting incidents regarding the organ-
ization of the first Relief Society in Nau-
voo, also of its re organization by Pres. B.
Young in Salt Lake City, and the labors of
herself and sisters in the societies.
	Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock the
following morning. Benediction by Apos-
tle C. C. Rich.

[Column 3]

	July 18, 10 o,clock a. m. In addition to
the visitors present the first day, Elders
James H. Hart and George Osmond, of the
Presidency of this Stake, were present. The
President and Counselors of the Y. L. M. L.
A. occupied the stand. Sister S. M. Hey-
wood expressed herself pleased to meet
with the sisters of this Stake; felt the same
spirit here that actuated the sisters in St.
George and other Southern settlements.
Counseled the sisters to do all they could
to help the brethren in their various duties.
Was pleased with the reports that were
read, also with their diligence in gleaning
and storing grain; hoped they would con-
tinue faithful in the good work. Exhorted
them to patronize the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
and other Church Publications.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m.
	Afternoon session: Meeting opened in
the usual manner. Sister Snow in her re-
marks referred to the good work these or-
ganizations were doing for our young people,
also the necessity for us to become self-sus-
taining. Suggested that the sisters in the
different settlements form committees and
collect together a good supply of straw, and
learn to braid and work it up into hats for
their husbands, their sons and themselves;
she said they should draw out of the ele-
ments the material they need.
	Sister E. Townsend said she had been
greatly blessed during the past week en-
joying the society of the sisters from Salt
Lake, traveling with them and attending
the meetings which they held in the dif-
ferent settlements; felt it to be one of the
most pleasant weeks of her life. Exhorted
mothers to be very careful in instilling cor-
rect principles into the minds of their chil-
dren, teach them good manners and en-
courage them to be punctual in attending
the Primary Meetings.
	Pres. J. H. Hart in his remarks pointed
out the necessity of building the Logan
Temple; told the sisters to encourage their
husbands and sons in that great work.
	Pres. G Osmond said we are all co-labor-
ers together in building up Zion, should
respond cheerfully to every call made upon
us by the servants of God.
	Apostle C. C. Rich expressed himself as
greatly pleased while listening to the re-
marks made during the Conference, espe-
cially those by the sisters from Salt Lake
City; wished the sisters of this Stake to
improve the present opportunity and get
all the instruction and counsel they possi-
bly could from those sisters, he knew they
were well qualified to counsel and instruct.
Proposed that Prests. J. H. Hart and G.
Osmond, with twenty able-bodied men,
should accompany him to the Logan Tem-
ple saw mill camp, there to celebrate the
Twenty-fourth day of July, the twenty
brethren to remain and work for one month
for the Temple.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction.
	ELIZABETH PUGMIRE,
Stake Corresponding Secretary.


The Portland Oregonian of recent date
says: "Among the passengers from Alaska,
to this city, by steamer California, was Miss
Sallie Ball, who is probably the youngest
Government official holding a commission
in the United States. The little miss,
though but twelve years of age is the duly
appointed postmistress of Sitka and the
manner in which every detail of her office is
attended to is worthy of adoption by more
than one Of the ‘Nasbys’ of this State."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		43


[For the EXPONENT.
LINES TO AN INFANT.

<jbiuofjes,offthlaf4j, bookiuii'up="" from="" tuy‘bosom'.="" 4-="" scsri="" may.not="" call="" ma="" wise="" or="" fair,="" ’.="" nur="" woma.kcarwt="" nvy="" “="" ’ia="" na="" buub="" e="" station="" that-1="" shared="" 1’="" 3siqrgifts,="" thatbt&yeaseu-amo.="" ,r="" '="" batiahlu,i’jraiaiove.i="" bn°,="" '"="" illb‘="" above="" every="" other,="" waile="" life="" and-="" ovu-u,sether.fkwr="" --="" thriu="" win="" jyjy,bv'slf="" bjj,="" mother.="" then="" welcome!lit!jstranger="" dear,="" uuiu="" my="" uiurtf="" rvvii;="" and="" grant="" that'hc="">And hast thou come [---], my love,
Choosing o'er every other
Viewed from thine holier home above.
Me, for thine earthly mother?
Didst thou no dim forbo[-]ing feel,
Taking on thee the human.
A helpless, tender child to knee,
Trusting for guide, a woman?

What wound'rous power directed thee,
To seek my heart's protection;
Tru[-]ting thine unsta[---]d Soul with me,
Thy faith, my benediction.
A[-]! l[-]t me hold thy hand in mine,
Thou tender human blossom,
And read in those blue eyes of thine,
Looking up from my bosom.

Men may not call me wise or fair,
Nor woman care [--] envy
The humble station that I share
Or gifts that heaven sen[-]s me.
But in thin y[---]m, love, I know,
H[--]h bove every other,
Wn[-]le life and ove[-]gether flow,
Thou wil[--] love best thy mother.
Then welcome! little Stranger dear,
Unto my [--]rt[-] r[-]v[--];
And grant that He, who sent thee here,
By death may p[-]rt us n[-]ver,
And may I guide these t[-]nder feet
By light of holy lesso[-]s,
To go with Zion'[-] so[-]s to meet
His coming and his bles[-]ing

				AUGUSTA JOYCE CRICHERON.
May 20th, 187[-].


[For the EXPONENT.
PRAYER.
At the close of day, when the beautiful
stars of heaven are twinkling with a sweet,
soothing, soul-inspiring light, filling our
heart with awe and humility, pouring into
our souls,  with  sweet unconsciousness,
thoughts of heaven, of the dwelling place
of our great and noble Father, ideas of an
eternal home of happiness, peace and tran-
quility; when as we gaze upwards to those
beautiful orbs of heavenly light,  when He
touches softly a chord of the heart, the vi-
brations of which say kindly though firmly
to our fiercer feelings, "Peace! be still!"
what is more  beautiful than prayer?
Can we help saying in our hearts:  "O
God, forgive us, for we have sinned much
and long! help us, O our much loved Father,
help us to live in the future a far better life
than in the past, that we may at length re-
tire to the loving arms of Thy holy rest?"
Gladly  would we now, if we dared and
could breathe away the bound that keeps
us from heaven, accept his sweet offer,  "Ye
who are weary and heavy laden come unto
me and I will give you rest;" yes, yes, we
 feel that we must go now, we cannot again
withdraw our eyes and our souls from those
glorious planets that speak so eloquently of 
the greatness, power, and magnitude of
God; we would fain ask for the rest that is
offered us and discover a perpetual home
in one of those bright orbs, where "the 
weary are at rest."  But no, we dare not;
for even in our pure revery, our heavenly
contemplations, a shadow lingers near us;
aye, it rest upon us; it remains with us, al-
though the Holy Spirit hath chased away
all evil thoughts and feelings from our
hearts at the present moment, although we
have, all unconsciously, resolved never,
never to sin again, still that shadow lingers;
it is the shadow of past sin, the shadow of
doubt.  As long as it remains with us we
dare not leave this mortal sphere; we hope
that by remaining here a little longer we
will be able to expiate for our past tollies,
and drive away the shadow that haunts us.
Yes, even in our holy communion with the
stars, those worlds of light and beauty, we
are conscious of its presence; so are the 
stars, for they seem to look upon us half-
reproachfullym half sorrowfully for our 
former weaknesses.
But even while they reproach us they
seem to beckon us onward, to lure us on to
better paths, that we, through our strug-
gles and victories, may sometime attain to 
them and to their glory.  They speak of a
life full of happiness, glory, and spotless
purity, even as they are.  They are beacon
lights of hope set upon the shore of eter-
nity, to guide us to heaven.  True, the
ocean of life that intervenes between them
and us is broad, and deep, and dark, the 
desert is great and dreary; but let us not 
"faint by the wayside," overcome with op-
pression and toil: let us not become terror-
stricken when clouds "black as midnight"
gather upon the sky above the ocean of life,
when lightning flashes are borne to view,
thrilling  strong  hearts  with  terror  and 
dread,  when  storms  gather  around  us,
threatening  to wreck  our frail barque  and
to sink us to  the bottom, with the troubled
billows rolling over our heads, lulling us to
rest at last; let us not murmur, or fear, but
remember that "our Father is at the helm,"
and He will guide us safely to that longed-
for shore.  Let  us  not  forget  to  remain a 
few moments at the many verdant oasis
which he has spread broadcast along the
desert of life, to quench our burning thirst,
to cool the hot fever on our brow, to refresh
our worn and weary bodies.
Yes, we have a long way to travel ere
we reach that brilliant shore, but the voice
of God whispers in comforting accents
"Hope on! hope ever! despair not! love
me, trust me, and I will guide you safely
to that heavenly home of eternal rest!" Oh,
with what joy and calm ecstasy do those
words of reassurance and love thrill through
our souls!  We realize the greatness of His
love and forgiveness, and we cannot refrain
from exclaiming:  "Praise ye the Lord!"
Prayer!  What is its object?  A sweet
communion of soul to soul, the to us invisi-
ble speaking to the almost unconscious soul
of the visible.  The answering of anything
asked in Christ's name, as far as it is wise
in the all-seeing, unfathomable depths of
wisdom of God.
Prayer!  Holy Messenger of Holy Peace!
Ely as the sunbeans to the realms of light,
where my Father dwelleth; tell Him of the
sufferings of His sinful child- how I have
sinned and suffered this day; tell Him of 
my repentance, my struggles to overcome;
of my failure, my weakness; bid Him send
me immediately greater strength, greater
power and greater courage, to fight, to en-
dure, and to carry on the warfare against
my enemy, sin, that I may not become the 
victim of my Father's foe.  Tell him how 
I love Him, how I worship and adore Him,
how I will constantly struggle to gain His
presence, for I yearn for it, I crave it; bid
Him send to me, to guard my every action,
to comfort and soothe through trial's dark
hour, His holy guardian angels.
And to-morrow, Holy Prayer, ascend
again, as I arise from my couch of slumber
and temporary rest; ascend again to Him
whom I love above all else; inform Him of
my gratitude for the night's peace; entreat
Him to guard me during this day from
sin and folly, that I may be worthy of His
blessings and guardianship.
Ascend constantly, O  Prayer, from the 
depths of my soul to my Savior, my Re-
deemer, my God and Father!  Ascend con-
stantly, mounted on the wings of love, and
upborne on the arms of faith.  Let thy elo-
quence and beauty be the purity, the hu-
mility and the fervency of my soul; then
surely will my Father hear me, believe me,
and respond with His boundless love and
mercy, for He is an impartial God; He will
surely help me to "love much and be for-
given."
	MARIA M. MILLER.
Richfield, Utah.


EIGHTY SIX.

	Quite a number of the friends of Bishop
Shadrach Roundy, deceased, met at the res-
idence of his widow, Mrs. Betsy Roundy,
Sixteenth Ward, on Sunday, June 29th, to
celebrate her eighty sixth birthday.
	Presiding Bishop, Edward Hunter, and
lady, Bishops J. C. Roundy and F. Kesler,
with sisters E. R. Snow, Mother Whitney as
we lovingly call her, Sarah D. Rich, Mercy
R. Thompson and daughter and many
others were present, manifesting thereby
their love and respect for our aged sister,
whose heart and hands have ever been
open to comfort the afflicted and provide for
the poor. She has also taken seven mother-
less children and cared for them as her own.
	Her husband, Bishop Shadrach Roundy,
was baptized at the earliest rise of the
Church, and served as life-guard to the Pro-
phet Joseph Smith, and whose superior will
and determination overawed the mob of
two hundred strong, under the leadership
of William Law, who came at midnight,
pretending they wanted to see the mum-
mies, but really to kidnap the Prophet Jo-
seph. Brother Roundy, with a hickory
cane, forced them back as they were enter-
ing, and fastened the gate.
	Sisters Thompson and Mathews brought
the little girls of the Primary Association
who sang several sweet songs, that gave
great pleasure to our aged sister and the
company present.
	We had a very pleasant time, and realiz-
ed that in blessing our beloved sister, we
all were truly blessed.	E. DAVIS.


PRIMARY JUBILEE.

	On Saturday, June 14, 1879, a very de-
lightful, well-arranged jubilee was given
in the 16th Ward Assembly Rooms, by
the officers of the Primary Association, and
was made still more interesting by a pre-
sentation of a wreath, containing a lock of
hair from each of the children, very artisti-
cally arranged, and in the center a photo-
graph of their President, Sister Mary Jane
Thompson, the whole enclosed in a very
handsome frame; and as two little girls pre-
sented this to her, an older child read an
appropriate poetical address to Sister M. J.
The whole scene was carried out in a most
graceful and affectionate manner by the
children, which reflected great credit on
them, and especially on their teachers.
	The presentation and address were a cmo-
plete surprise, and had such an effect on
Sister Mary Jane, that had not tears arose
to her relief, it seemed that it would have
overpowered her. And many a hear[-] in
that assembly swelled with sweet emotion
at the touching scene, and many an eye
ran over with the glad surprise." After a
short time, Sister M. J. recovered and in a
few sweet words expressed her acknow-
ledgment of the delicate attention; which
was set on foot and carried out by Sister
Mathews and one or two other kind friends.
	It will be a scene long remembered, and
the songs and recitations had been carefully
selected, and the manners of the children
were graceful and even elegant. The whole
affair was altogether an exemplar "worthy
of imitation."				H. T. K.
	Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS. -	-	Editor.
 Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00. per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
  Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Buisness hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
  Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1879


[Column 1]
NOTES BY THE WAY.

	We have had such a pleasant time recently
visiting in the Southern settlements, that we
are desirous of giving our readers a brief de-
scription of a flying visit through Sanpete Co.
We traveled in the interest of the organizations
of women and children, and also of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT. We were accompanied by
Mrs. Elizabeth Howard and our daughter
Louie.
	Leaving this city by the Utah Southern
morning train, we arrived in Nephi just before
noon, where we held a meeting with the sis-
ters of the Relief Society at two o'clock p. m.
Nephi is a flourishing railroad town now, al-
though until recently the people depended
almost entirely upon agricultuial pursuits.
The trees and shrubbery are abundant and
give it a pleasing appearance. They have ex-
cellent farms, gardens and orchards, and their
surroundings denoted prosperity. Elder Or-
son Hyde's son was there with a carriage and
horses, waiting for us when we arrived, and
shortly after the close of the meeting we were
on our way to Fountain Green, the nearest set-
tlement in Sanpete Co., and as it had been
raining during the afternoon, the [--]ads were
not so dusty.
	Having heard much of the beauty and gran-
deur of Salt Creek Canon, we were anxious to
observe all within the range of our vision. The
road is winding, lying between lofty ridges of
mountains of a variety of color and shades, most
of them rocky and steep, the shrubbery seem-
ingly growing out of the solid rock; others
were more verdant, and trees and flowers
helped to make the picture beautiful. The
birds were singing all around us, and here and
there the squirrels, frigntened at the approach
of the horses, ran from bush to bush to hide
themselves. We all fully appreciated the
scenery on our way; and every now and then
some of us would exclaim, O how grand, how
beautiful, how picturesque! Mount Nebo can
be seen only a short distance away, the highest
point in this vicinity. Away it towers above
all the rest, majestic as they appear, as though
it was the crowned head—the king of moun-
tains.
	We reached the Bishop's at Fountain Green
just before dark, and found Mrs M. A. P. Hyde
waiting our arrival. We were glad to retire
early, as we were all fatigued by our long ride
and drive through the canon. The next day
we went on to Moroni; our route lay a[-]ong the
fields, with mountains in the distance. The
people were busy harvesting, and we were
pleased to observe they nearly all had ma-
chinery at work, which so materially lightens
the labor formerly all performed by hand. The
fields of grain were beautiful in the sunshine,
and presented a charming pastoral picture.
Occasionally we saw hayfields, and the fra-

[Column 2]
grance of the new-mow[-] hay was wafted to-
wards us. The crops are not so abundant this
season, on account of the scarcity of water,
yet to us who were not accustomed to seeing
such large fields and stacks of grain they
seemed wonderful.
	Moroni is one of the oldest towns in the
county, and the stone wall and bastion, built
at the time of the Indian trouble, gives it
rather an ancient appearance.
	From Moroni we went on to Fairview, pass-
ing through Mt. Pleasant on our way, leaving
an appointment there for a general meeting to
be held the following day. Mt. Pleasant is in-
deed what the name indicates; the situation
is very romantic, and it has every appearance
of prosperity. We arrived at Fairview in time
to hold two meetings the same day, one in the
evening, and as it was the anniversary of the
organization of the Y. L. M. I. A., there was a
party in the evening, which commenced as
soon as the meeting closed. Fairview is a much
larger settlement than we had thought, and
there is a very great number of children. The
Bishop was an old acquaintance of ours in
childhood, and we were were delighted to see
him after so many years, surrounded with
blessings on every hand, beloved and honored.
His aged mother, too, whom we had known in
former days in our good old New England
home, was also there to greet us and inquire
about old friends. It is always pleasant after
long years to meet those we knew in early life;
it calls up many deep emotions that have lain
buried in the inner recesses of the heart.
	From Fairview we returned to Mt. Pleasant,
where we held meeting in the afternoon, then
on to Spring City, arriving there in time to
meet with the sisters in the evening. In the
morning we had another meeting, of the Pri-
mary Association and as many others as would
fill the hall; indeed, at most of the places we
visited we met with the children, and with
permission of the Bishops they were organized
wherever it had not been done previously.
	From Spring City we posted on to Ephraim.
Here the sisters are building a hall and store
in one, and a place to store grain. At the
present time they have over 1200 bushels of
wheat stored, most of which they gleaned.
This is a proof of what the sisters may do in
storing up grain against a day of need. We
found the sisters earnest and diligent in regard
to the storing of grain, and indeed it is quite
wonderful how much has been accomplished 
by the organizations of women in so short a
time, commencing, too, without capital. At
Ephraim we visited the two Sunday Schools
and heard the children answer questions on the
Book of Mormon that astonished us. From
this place we went to Manti, where we visited
the Temple grounds, of which we intend giv-
ing a brief description at another time, as also
of other things we saw. Our space will not
permit us to enter into details. At Manti the
sisters are building a rock store. We had a
very full meeting there, many brethren were
present.
	From Manti we journeyed to Mayfield, from
there to Gunnison. In this place the Relief
Society are erecting a large building, one por-
tion of which a large hall, will be completed
<p lafga="" hafij="" wiil="" be="" completed="" thij="" fall,.="" the="" pthyr-paigthe="" b.uliqingh="" fie'="" signed="" for="" a="" theatre,.="" )itth.,.tage="" .and:="" ;other="" rpomq="" adjoining;="" the(s?pmd.="" eloryw="" ilheontain="" rooms="" ,cocoon.eryjfibraryriridpthe="">this fall. The other part of the building is de-
signed for a theatre, with stage and other
rooms adjoining; the second story will contain
rooms for cocoonery, library and other purposes.
It is to have a mansard roof and will be, when
completed, a very handsome building.
	From Gunnison we went on to Fayette, 
where some organizations were formed, and
the next morning we rode over to Juab and 
took the train to return home.

[Column 3]
	At Fayette we parted with Mrs. Hyde, who
had traveled with us all through Sanpete Co.,
and to whom we had become strongly attached
on account of her many amiable and pleasing
qualities and her gentle and attractive manner.
	Throughout our entire journey we were most
cordially welcomed and hospitably entertained,
and everywhere the Bishops were specially
kind and delighted to see the sisters’ who had
come on a visit, hear them talk, and show them
all the attention possible. We were introduced
to a great many brethren and sisters, whom
we were very glad to meet, and who expressed
themselves delighted tomeet the sisters from
THE CITY. The scenery we saw would alone
furnish subject matter for an article, but at
present we will only say Sanpete is in a pros-
perous condition, and its valleys teem with
plenty, and the children are a numerous host.
				[handwriten] E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE on hand reports from several
branches of women's organizations that we
intend publishing as soon as possible.
	WE WISH to say that during our trip South
we found some sisters practically engaged in
raising cocoons. The finest and largest quanti-
ties were those raised by Sister Maria Larsen
at Spring City, and Sister Rebecca Wareham
at Manti,
	WE FIND it necessary to again remind our
contributors that when they send articles for
publication they must send the editor their real
name. Recently we have received articles with
fictitious signatures, and the name of the
writer withheld.
	On Monday, August 4, three of the Twelve
Apostles were committed to prison for con-
tempt, in not complying with the requisition
of the order of the Court, which they affirm was
absolutely impossible. To-day this case come
up before the newly appointed Judge, but it is
again postponed until to-morrow. They have
our earnest prayers and sincere sympathy, and
we trust they will not have to remain long "in
durance vile."
	BROTHER GRAVES of Provo, who travels in
the interest of sericulture, called at our office
and informed us he had taken from the North
to Provo sufficient silk to make seventy-five
yards, and that they were already making
black satin. A meeting of the Silk Associa-
tion of Weber Stake will be held in Ogden on
Aug. 30, at which time a full report will be
given of the condition of sericulture in that
county, the number of mulberry trees, also co-
coons and silk-worm eggs. 
	GOV. BRAYMAN, of Idaho, is paying a short
visit to our Territory. He is on his way back
to Boise City, after a short visit to his home in
Wisconsin, and also to the seat of government
in Washington. The Governor was one of the
peace commissioners who visited Nauvoo at the
time of the exodus of the Mormon people; sent
there by the Governor of Illinois. He is a ge-
nial and cultivated gentleman, and is well
posted in regard to this people. We like to
meet such persons, have them visit our Terri-
tory and become acquainted with its institu-
tions. We wish the Governor a pleasant and
safe journey to his field of labors.
	MISS AMY Sherwin and Mrs. Murtha Por-
theus have recently visited our city and won
the admiration of a host of music lovers. The
concert given on Monday the 11th inst., was one
of the most interesting entertainments given
here this summer. Miss Sherwin has a remark-
ably fine, clear voice, and acted the part of Leo-


n ora, in the prison scene from Il'Trovatore, in a
manner that completely charmed the audience
and won expressions of applause from all sides.
The gem of the evenings, however, was the
duet, "O Sainted Mother," from Maritana, by
Miss Sherwin and Miss Olsen.  The other la-
dies and gentlemen who took part in the per-
formance also deserve special mention, but
space will not allow.  On the whole the con-
cert was very succe[-]sful as an entertainment,
and we regret to say it was not so financially.
The performance certainly deserved a better
house, and it is to be hoped that the public
taste will rise to a higher degree of apprecia-
tion than it now possesses.  Friday evening
the Pinafore was again presented, with some
interesting changes of scenery and character.
Josephine, represented by Miss Sherwin, was a
more charming character than ever.
	LADIES' MEETING in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Saturday, Aug  2, was ex-
tremely interesting. Counselor Phebe Wood-
ruff presided.  The minutes from Y. L.  M.  I.
Associations and Primary Associations were
very good indeed, and show a marked progress.
Counselors P. Woodruff, B. W. Smith, E.
Howard and another sister addressed the meet-
ing, dwelling much upon the troubles of the 
present time, the injustice of the measures
taken by those who are opposed to this king-
dom; the sisters were exhorted to be prayerful
and diligent in doing their duty and keeping
the commandments of God.  Sister Howard
made a short political speech, in which she ad-
vised the sisters to go to the polls and vote at
the coming election.  These meetings are an
educational institution, where women are
taught and instructed in the practical duties of
life, and are of the greatest mutual benefit.
Here the daughters of Zion may become ac-
quainted with the experiences of the elder sis-
ters, and learn to profit by their large and long
experiences. These general meetings are to
the local Relief Societies what the high school
is to the district schools.  The sisters who teach
in these meetings are capable of feeding the
souls of their hearers with spiritual food, fresh
from the fountains of life and light.
	Minutes of a Meeting of the Ladies of Utah
Co. held in Provo City, Aug. 1, 1879, Pres A. C.
Smoot and David John of the Presidency of the
Stake. Bps Harington and Paxmam and many
of the prominent Ladies of the County: after
the usual devotional exercis[--], Pres A  O. Smoot
arose and stated the business of the meeting to
be the organization of a Silk Association or
Utah Stake; also to organize the Association in-
to three districts.  After further remarks en-
couraging the enterprize, the Election of officers
was proceeded with as follows:  Silk orgnization
Margaret T Smoot, President;  Mary  John
and Addie  D[-]sen[-]er, Counselors;  Albert
Jones, Secretary; William Paxman, Trea[-]urer;
Daniel Graves, Traveling Agent; Central Dis-
trict, Provo, Springville, Spanish Fork; Esther
A. Beebe. President; Lucy W. Kimball, and
Sarah Goodman, Counselers; Hannah Booth,
Secretary; Ann T. Dugdale, Treasurer; North-
ern District, North of Provo, Mary Hindley,
President; Ellen D. Clark, and Meilisa Mott,
Counselors; Emma Fatherstone, Secretary;
Mary Shelley, Treasure[-]; Southern Distrect,
South of Spanish Fork, Agnes Douglas, Presi-
dent; Susin Fairbank[-], and M[-]ry Mo ore,Coun-
selors; Matilda D. Dixon, Secretary; Elizabeth,
Tanner, Treasurer.  At the Counclusion of the
Election the officers were set apart to their re-
spective officers by the Priside[-]cy of the Stake
assisted by Bishops Harington and Paxman;
after which Pres. A. O. Smoot advised the offi-
ciers of the Districts to help the Saints of the
several wards in their selections of ward officers
meeting then adjourned until 6,30, P.M.
	After prayer by Bishop W. Paxman, Presi-
dent Margaret Smoot intreduced Mary Hin-
ley of American Fork who had business to
present connected with the County orgniza-
tion.  Mrs. Hindley called upon the Secertary
of the County Association, Mrs  Fatherstone
who read the Reports of the Assocation; the
Finances showing a balance in hand of $77 24
Mrs. Hindley then announc[-]d the dissultion of
the County Association under her presidency
and expressed her desire that her late officers
and fellow laborers would attach themselves to
the new organization with the same diligence
that they had shown under her administration;
Elder Daniel Graves. moved a vote of thanks
to Sister Hindley and out  going-officers for
their diligence in the cause of Sericulture. Car-
ried unamious.
	Mrs. Zina Young Williams, after expressing
her interest in the work presented the Stake Or-
ganization with five hundred Mulberry Trees;
from her Cocoonery Grounds situated in Salt
Lake County.
Pres Margaret.  T.  Smoot. in behalf of the
Association accepted the gift of Mrs. Williams,
thanking her for her liberal support of the cause-
The former purchasing Agents, Mrs. Clark of
American Fork and Mrs. Douglas of Payson,
were reappointed with instructions to retain
the balance in other hands for purchasing the
present season's crop of cocoons;  Mrs. N Wil-
isams was appointed Purchasing,  Agent for
Provo.   Meeting then adjourned untill the 7th
of November 1879,
A. JONES, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
div="">								WOMAN'S EXPONENT.						45
		
	div="">			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			45


[Column 1]
A FEW THOUGHTS.

	"All ye inhabitants of the world and dwell-
ers on the earth, see ye when he lifteth up an
ensign on the mountains." (Isaiah xviii. 3)

	Ever since the creation man has made laws
to prescribe the people, and has set aside the
laws of God, to the overthrow of nations. Is
not past history sufficient to elucidate this,
and will man persist in this work of dissolu-
tion? How was it with the world in the days
of Noah? Later with our Savior? And how
will it be with this nation, now a powerful
government in the midst of the earth? Look
well to your acts, that you do not merit a simi-
lar fate, and walk that broad road to destruc-
tion! Let us investigate the matter, and see if
our government is not making laws to pre-
scribe, to cast into prison the innocent, to de-
prive its citizens the right of justice, of con-
science, also of their religious rights, to wor-
ship God according to their own views. If we
as Latter-day Saints would believe in a God
without body, parts, or passions, if we would
believe the Pope had power to forgive sins, or
believe baptism was not essential for our salva-
tion, if we would be atheists, shaking Quak-
ers, quiet Quakers, or if we would believe in
some of the dogmas of the day, that have been
established by man-reformers from errors they
could not swallow, we might live with them
in peace; but now because we cannot swallow
what they could in their religious faith, they
use the same weapons their fathers did, stripes,
death and imprisonment.
	We do not want to countenance grogshops,
billiard saloons, houses of ill fame, but their
laws have subjected us to all their attendant
evils. O! the inconsistency of man-made laws
—a cover for sin and degradation. Our most
bitter enemies are largely of a class we blush
to name, and of those who love and make lies.
But our friends are the virtuous, the most hon-
orable, the pure in heart, who will listen to

[Column 2]
the voice of truth that comes from God. "All
ye inhabitants of the world and dwellers on
the earth, see ye when He lifteth up an ensign
on the mountains," for the hour of His judg-
ment has come; and He will come out of His
hiding place and vex that nation that lifts its
puny arm against His work, and bring it low
in the dust. For He has said He would do a
marvelous work, which would be a wonder to
all people. And again, He says He doeth
nothing unless He revealeth it to His servants,
the prophets: these words prove we shall have
revelation. If they bring every evil accusation
against us, we will worship the true and liv-
ing God, whom Abraham, Isaac, Moses, Seth,
Jacob, all the old patriarchs and the New Tes-
tament disciples worshipped.

	We are the women who will stand firm to
our faith, to our brethren, to our patriarchs, to
our God, who was the friend of Abraham, and
his posterity in plural marriage, of whose seed
we are; and shall we cowardly deny our origin,
the very fountain of our existence? Did not
Christ say He was the offspring of David, the
bright and morning star?

	I ask, Has our government the power to
make an intelligent, enlightened community
like the Latter-day Saints, with all their
knowledge of Bible doctrine and revelation di-
rect from the fountain head, and who are con-
versant with all the dogmas of a confused sys-
tem of things, religiously and politically, in
the world, that they were glad to leave, have
they the power to make them abandon their
faith? We, the women of Utah, will plead
and pray to our Father in Heaven for our
brethren in prison, and we do sustain and up-
hold them as men of God, who are unjustly
sent to prison by misapplied law—a one-sided
affair, to measure us in their own small mea-
sure, throwing stones at us that will break
their own glass houses.
	We feel proud of our brethren who dare speak
the truth and come out against error, false-
hood, superstition and overt acts of violence;
we can put full confidence in them, for they
are trustworthy. Our Delegate will act honor-
ably as such for we have proven him. And
would that all our officers of law, or who hold
positions, were such men, that would act justly
and with equity.
	We as a community desire peace; we sought
for it by coming here, leaving our all to our
enemies. Can they not be satisfied with what
they have heaped upon us? If they are not
satisfied with our course of life, let them depart
in peace; we can do as well without them as
we did before they came, and a little better.
My son was eight years of age before he saw a
drunken man. What has led some of our sons
and some of our brethren into this great evil?
Drinking saloons. Who are leading some of
the daughters of Zion from virtue's path? Not
polygamists; they are safe with them.
	Those who raise the hue and cry against our
religion and design to thwart the purposes of
Jehovah are this class of men. Has not this
people opened up a great thoroughfare for
commerce by railway to a desert region, that
no other people would have sought out, or un-
dertaken? And it was only accomplished by
them through the living faith they had in Him
who rules the destiny of nations. No power
can stay our progress.
	"This saith the Lord God. Behold, I will
lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set up
my standard to the people; and they shall
bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daugh-
ters shall be carried upon their shoulders.'
(49th Isaiah, 22d verse.)
						PHILANTHROPY.
	Salt Lake City, Aug. 11, 1879.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

BABY-STARVING IN BOSTON.

	The "Traveller" recently published a
startling account of the manner in which
baby-farming is carried on in the neighbor-
hood of Boston, and a medical student in a
college not far from this city has added the
result of his experience, which shows the
great morality at baby-farms and the ease
with which the bodies of infants can be ob-
tained for dissection. This student publicly
said that a certain person was applied to for
a regular supply of children's bodies for a
number of students. A low price was
agreed upon and the students were furnished
with the dissecting materials. As fast as
one lot was exhausted another supply was
sent to them until they had received nearly
three hundred dollars.
	Dr. Dixwell, who bears the same relation
to the Boston Society for the Prevention of
cruelty to Children that Mr. Jenkins does
to the New York society, said to a "Travel-
ler reporter: "There is much baby farming
carried on in Boston in a small way. Some
hag will hire apartments in an obscure street,
take half a dozen babies to nurse, and by
keeping them on a low diet succeed in mak-
ing money. It is necessary that she should
have physicians associated with her to
sign certificates of death, but this
matter is easily arranged with unscru-
pulous men. When the death list becomes
too large they soon learn to keep it to them-
selves. There is really no inspection of
these places, the number of inmates is not
known, and a death excites no suspicion.
The Board of Health attempts to supervise
these places and has issued a demand that
all children taken to board above the num-
ber of three under one year old shall be
registered. There are no special powers
given to its officers to enter any of these
places without a warrant, and they do not
feel disposed to lay themselves liable for
trespass. However, our officers have never
let such a consideration weigh for a mo-
ment when it was thought necessary to
make an investigation.
	"One of these abodes of disease and
death was in James Place. We visited it
and were shown into a room which was
rank with foul odors, and where seven chil-
dren, white and black, all of them under a
year and a half old, were huddled together
on a "shake-down"  One of them was
sadly diseased and another was very sickly.
One of the healthier children was feeding
out of the same bottle used by a child with
a contagious disease. In a quart jar was a
mixture of molasses and laudanum, which
was used as a "soothing syrup" and which
accounted for the starved and pinched faces
and fractious tempers of the children. The
old crone who kept the house had the repu-
tation of being a witch. We requested her
to bring us two children from above, which
she did, dragging one of them by the wrist,
while the other was carried under her arm
like an umbrella. On application to the
Board of Health, the place was broken up.
	"In a similar place on Kinnaird street
slow starvation was carried on. The chil-
dren had apparently good natural constitu-
tions, but their bones were sticking through
their skin. They were in a rear room,
which the woman refused to open to us at
first. It was very warm, but the windows
were all closed and wraps were piled on the
cribs. The children were sleeping with
the pupils of their eyes strongly contracted
—an unmistakable evidence of opium—and
they were in a state of uncleanliness sick-
ening to behold. But their chief suffering
appeared to be from lack of food. We gave
some milk to two of them, and they de-

[Column 2]

voured it with an eagerness which could
have been produced only by starvation
One of our men asked the "medical gen-
tleman" in attendance what was the matter
wifh a certain child at this place, and he
answered, "Chronic hydroecphalus." No
such disease existed. The child was taken
away and cared for, and is in a fair way to 
recover. Of course these people devise
ridiculous stories to account for the sickness
of their "boarders" when an attempt is
made at investigation. In this case the
woman told us that the mother of this
child brought a poisoned rose and waved it
across the nose of her infant, and that the
odor of the flower was so very rank that
everybody in the house complained. There
was one of these places near the Massachu-
setts General Hospital where they were so
careless a while ago that they allowed one
of their children to tumble out of a fourth-
story window and break its neck. The diet
in all these "farms" is of the most inexpen-
sive kind, and the milk is greatly diluted.
Then the various "soothing syrups" make
the children quiet and take away their ap-
petites in a great degree. So much for the
petty places. If I were at liberty to speak
of the large "farms," such as exist at Wor-
cester and Westfield, and in fact in almost
every county. there would indeed be a
revelation. These are private institutions
backed by wealthy men. We have had
two or three of them under watch for some
time. We have 300 men in the different
districts and a dozen here, and besides we
are in communication with the kindred so-
cieties at New York and Philadelphia and
Portsmouth, N. H., forming a complete
allied children's society. If it chances that
some of our men are known, we can obtain
others very quickly. We intend to ferret
out this thing and stop it.
	"At Tewkesbury the mortality among
the children is very large. The reason is
that the help are paupers, and the women
are old and helpless. It is the best the State
can give at present, but it is not good
enough to keep the children alive. Last
year the supervisors of the institution rec-
ommended that no infant under one year
should be sent to Tewkesbury, but if possi-
ble placed in the Massachusetts infant Asy-
lum. This is a semi-public institution. It
receives $4 a week for every infant which
the State sends there. An infant can be
well cared for for $2 a week. If we could
receive the price paid to the Infant Asylum
we could make the infants we pick up out
of the streets pay for all the rest of our
children. But it is an exclusive thing and
we cannot get it. I do not favor the revi-
val of any system that tends to encourage
illegitimacy of birth, but when you have a
healthy child to dispose of and have to send
it to an institution where it cannot receive
proper care, it seems too bad that there is
not a properly organized and legalized place
to which you can conscientiously send it.
I see no way to remedy the evil except to
take from the Infant Asylum its exclusive
State patronage and offer the four dollars a
week to other institutions. Then every
child would be taken care of. As it is now
there is an immense waste of human life,
which registration does not show. You
could form some idea of it if you knew
how many bodies are found in the river,
sold to the medical students, and picked up
in all sorts of places. While I lament the
prevalence of illegitimate children, I think
we are called upon to take care of them
and provide for their moral as well as bodily
growth in a proper manner."
	These revelations obtained by the "Trav-
eller" make it certain that a branch of your

[Column 3]

State Charities Aid Association is as much
needed in Boston as in Philadelphia, where
treatment in a house of refuge drives young
boys to suicide.—Boston Correspondence of
the N. Y. World.


AROUND THE WORLD.

ATTENTION! IMPORTANT TO STUDENTS.

PROSPECTUS.

	Every intelligent person desires to travel,
and, if this be imposible, desires to learn
what travelers have seen and heard and ex-
perienced in all parts of the world. Many
an ambitious boy has left home comforts
and bright prospects on shore and cheerfully
encountered the hardships and perils of a
sailor's life, that he might visit foreign lands
and learn something of other countries than
his own The most enlightened govern-
ments have often sent out costly expeditions
to circumnavigate the globe and inquire in-
to the phenomena of nature in every clime,
and the manners, customs and resources of
strange nations; and the stores of infor-
mation thus obtained have been published
for the benefit of mankind In more recent
times enterprising individuals have, at their
own expense, organized parties for the
general exploration of unknown regions,
for special scientific research, or for furnish-
ing the advantages of travel to those who
could spare but a limited amount of time
and money for this object.
	The Woodruff Scientific Expedition
Around the World is undoubtedly the grand
est and most attractive undertaking of this
kind that has ever been projected, and
has awakened the liveliest interest through-
out the country. It has been for a consider-
able time before the public, and has steadily
grown in favor with the people. The diffi-
culties which pioneers in all great and
novel enterprise[-] must meet and overcome
have by no means discouraged its managers
and patrons, and they propose to persist in
all reasonable and honorable effort until
some, at least, of its magnificent possibilities
have been realized. This Expedition has
been very appropriately named a floating
college because it is to be an educational
institution of high order, well organized,
thoroughly equipped and located upon a
first class iron steamship which is to under-
take a voyage around the globe. The Clyde-
built steamer General Werder has been
selected for the use of the Expedition and
fitted with every convenience for the ac-
commodation of two hundred and fifty pro-
fessors and students. She has been inspected
and approved by officers of the United
States Navy, and granted an American reg-
ister for the purposes of the Expedition by
a special act of Congress. Naval officers of
large experience and the highest reputation
will be appointed to command and navigate
the ship, and the journey of nearly forty
thousand miles on the land and the ocean
will occupy eighteen months, and will be so
planned as to reach all the principal cities of
the world in the most favorable season of
the year.
	President W. S. Clark, of Amherst, Mass.,
will have entire control of the educational
department instruction. The students will
be furnished with uniforms and cadet rifles,
and thoroughly drilled in military and
gymnastic exercises with special reference
to physical culture and the preservation of
vigorous health.
	The best sanitary and police regulations
will be enforced, and the highest Christian
morality inculcated, while gambling and
indulgence in alcoholic liquors will be


[Column 1]
strictly forbiden. The students will be
divided into suitable sections according to
their ability and attainments, and each sec-
tion will be under the particular care of a
competent professor, though receiving in-
struction also from others. The course of
study will be arranged to meet the neces-
sities and tastes of every student so far as
possible, but all will be required to attend
faithfully to the duties assigned. Persistent
disobedience will be followed by discharge
from the ship, with a free passage home by
the most direct route.
	Books, maps, diagrams, apparatus and
other necessary appliances for study and
investigation, will be provided for the use
of all members of the Expedition. Detailed
information concerning the officers, the ship
the organization and the course of instruc-
tion, may be found in our own paper.
It is confidently believed that the thought
time and money hitherto bestowed upon
this novel educational institution has been
well expended, and that the results, as seen
in the present arrangements, will meet the
entire approval of the most experienced
travelers, the most prudent parents and
guardians.
	In response to the numerous favorable
notices which have appeared from time to
time during the past winter in the public
prints, hundreds of applications have been
received from young men who were ready
and eager to join the Expedition upon any
terms but the payment of a large sum of
money. Students from vairous institutions
in all parts of the United States and Canada,
and even graduates of colleges, have begged
the privilege of serving as sailors, waiters,
or in any other capacity, for the sake of see-
ing the world and participating in the bene-
fit of the proposed voyage. Inasmuch, how-
ever, as more than half a million dollars are
required to defray the unavoidable expenses
of the Expedition, and as it is not a bene-
volent institution, it is evident that "those
who dance must pay the piper. While a
considerable number of the applicants are
able and willing to give satisfactory security
for the cash payment of the required fees,
there is still a large majority who are al-
most with out pecuniary abi[-]ity and yet
would cheerfully make great sacrifices to
enjoy the advantages offered. Special ef-
forts have therefore been made to devise
some means by which this numerous class
of ambitious and worthy students might se-
cure for themselves free scholarship.
	It has long been the intention of the man-
agers to publish an illustrated weekly jour-
nal of the Expedition, to be printed regu-
larly on board ship and to contain all the
most interesting facts and observations
which might come to the knowledge of its
members. Such a publication under proper
supervision would be a powerful and con-
stant stimulus to all the faculty and students
to observe accurately and record correctly,
and in a pleasing manner, the incidents of
the voyage, and whatever was new and note-
worthy in the varied scenes through which
they might pass. A copy of this paper sent
to friends at home would answer the pur-
pose of many letters, and thus save an im-
mense amount of time and labor for better
uses. As soon as it became known last
winter, when it was expected the Expedi-
tion would sail on the eighth of May, that
such a journal was to be issued from the
ship in whatever port she might happen to
be on the day of publication, and that the
seventy-eight weekly numbers could be
obtained, postage free, for five dollars, sub-
scriptions began to come in from all parts of
the country. It was at once demonstrated
that the people would gladly welcome so

[Column 2]
unique a newspaper, especially if carefully
edited, neatly printed, and well illustrated
by original sketches and photographs pre-
pared by the artists of the Expedition.
	When on the eighth of May it was found
that less than half the requisite number of
students had deposited their fees with
Messrs. Drexel, Morgan & Co., the bankers
of the Expedition, it was promptly decided
to return the money to the depositors ac-
cording to contract, and to try a new scheme
for the accomplishment of the desired ob-
ject. Students were abundant, while funds
were scarce. Both were essential to suc-
cess, and success in so good a cause seemed
to be duty. After much deliberation it has
been determined to offer the following
terms to all young men of correct habits,
who have attained the age of fifteen years
and are well versed in the common English
branches of education.
	First, the sum of three thousand dollars,
paid in advance on or before the day of sail-
ing from New York, will defray for one
student all the expenses of the voyage on
ship and shore, including washing, books
and uniform.
	Secondly, a free scholarship, including all
expenses as above specified, will be granted
to any appli[-]a[-]t qualified as above indicated,
who shall secure six hundred cash subscribers
at five dollars each, to the paper called
AROUND THE WORLD, of which this may be
regarded as a sample number.
	Thirdly, any eligible person may pay his
fee partly in money, and partly in subscrip-
tion at the above-named rates.
	Finally, any person, desiring to act as
agent for the Expedition [-]n obtaining sub-
scribers, will receive authority and full
instruction on application to Woodruff
Expedition, St. Nicholas Hotel, New York.
A certificate will be given to every agent at
the close of his engagment, stating how
many subscribers he has obtained; and, if
he does not wish to avail himself of a scholar-
ship, he may sell or otherwise transfer the
number placed to his credit to any eligible
person who may desire to join the Expedi-
tion, and who shall recive for the same the
full value of five dollars each in the pay-
ment of his fee. In lieu of other compensa-
tion, any agent will, on application to the
office be paid, before the sailing of the 
Expedition, twenty five cents in money for
each subscriber he may have obtained. As
soon as two hundred students have secured
their membership in any one of the ways
specified, notice will be given to all agents
of the fact, and the day of sailing will be
announced as soon as practicable thereafter.
Excellent accommodations will be provided
for all who are accepted as students, and
the state-rooms will be assigned by lot by
the purser on board ship. Subsequent
changes for the convenience of individuals
will be made as may be found desirable.
	All money received for subscription or in
payment of fees, will remain on deposit
until the sailing of the Expedition is as-
sured, and will then be drawn for use in
defraying necessary expenses only by drafts
countersigned by a majority of its three
trustees. In case two hundred students
should not be enrolled after a reasonable
time, and the Expedition for any cause
should be abandoned, all money for sub-
scription and fees in the hands of the
treasurers will be forwarded forthwith to
the several owners thereof on return of the
receipts for the same.
	From the foregoing statement it will be
seen that the Woodruff Expedition is not 
abandoned, but is in a healthy and hopeful
condition. It is now more widely and
favorably known than ever before, and has

[Column 3]
been reduced to a plan which seems both
feasible and attractive, and which places its
advantages within the reach of any enter-
prising and energetic young man. If its
numerous friends will kindly render it the
assistance it deserves, there will be little
difficulty in securing one hundred thousand
subscribers to AROUND THE WORLD, and
two hundred students will soon be en-
rolled for one of the most romantic, delight-
ful and instructive excursions ever under-
taken.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SABBATH DAY THOUGHTS.

	As I sit down in my quiet, little home,
resting my mind from care and labor on this
Sabbath day, set apart for rest and reflection,
some thoughts, Oh, happy thoughts come
to my mind; and I conclnded if our editor
would find room for them in the EXPONENT
it would do no harm for its patrons to read
and ponder upon. As I have been chosen
by the young ladies of this settlement as
president of the Y. L. M. I. A. until we are
reorganized by higher authority, I feel to
take a deeper interest in the welfare of our
young girls, and wish to make every exer-
tion in my power to encourage them to keep
up their meetings, and to donate our little
means to the work upon the Temple, as I
do not feel hardly capable of teaching or in-
structing my sisters in the knowledge of
the things of God, or indeed in much else.
	I have been meditating upon what I
might do to promote the most good and
what improvement I could make in myself,
that I might have the best influence. My
thoughts were to keep the spirit of the
Gospel, to pray always, and to read the
Church books; not to spend time and means
in novels and the light literature of the
world, but store my mind with that true
knowledge which will prove of lasting ben-
efit. I am happy to say I have never spent
a cent for novels or any such trash, and
have spent but a few hours of my life in
reading them, and intend to spend no more
in such a frivolous way. The teachings
and spirit of the Gospel is far more precious
to me than all worldly knowledge, or its
fashions and enjoyments.
		CAROLINE DAY.
Hamblin, Utah.


OBITUARY

	DIED at Lewiston, Cache Co., Utah, May 23,
1879, after an illness of nearly two years, Sister
Car[-]line Gassen Price, [-]ife of Charles Price,
deceased, formerly the wife of Richard Blake-
ly. Born September 2, 1819, Herefordshire,
England, in the Parish of Yorkal.
	Sis’er Price was baptized into the Church of 
Je[-]us Christ of Latter-day Saints in the year
1840, by Elder Wilford Woodruff; emigrated to 
Ut[-]h in 1856, crossing the plains with the
hand-cart comp[-]ny. On that tedious journey
she lost her husband and one child; she bore
the hardships without complaint. She has
passed through a great many trials for the sake
of the Gospel. She was a member of the Re-
lief Society, and always bore a stong testimo-
ny to the truth of this work. She leaves two
children of her own and three others that she
tended as a mo[-]h[-]r,and a large circle of f[-]iends
to mourn her lo[-]s. Those who knew her best
loved h[-]r most. May she rest in peace until
she is called forth in the mo[-]ning of the resur-
rection to mingle with the just and good.
		S. T.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PROSPECTUS OF THE CONTRIBUTOR,

A MONTHLY MAGAZINE, REPRESENTING
	THE YOUNG MEN'S AND YOUNG LADIES'
	MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS OF
	THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS.

	The Mutual Improvement Associations of
Utah and the adjacent Territories have enrolled
a membership of about twenty thousand per-
sons. This host of young people is marshaled
under the banner of Progress and improve-
ment, and is engaged in the pursuit of religious,
scientific, historic and literary knowledge.
	Up to the present time the Associations have
had no general representative publication de-
voted to their interests, though the growth of 
the organization, the character of its exercises,
and the development of literary talent among
its members have long required, and now de-
mand such an organ.
	To meet this requirement, we were induced
to address a proposition to the authorities of 
the Church, to publis a Monthly Magazine.
They gave it their sanction and approval, and 
authorized us to canvass the Associations for 
subscribers and contributions, and if we were
justified by the support given, to commence
its publication.
	Favorable assurance of interest aud encour-
agement having been received from many
parts of the Territory, we have made our ar-
rangements for publication, and propose to 
issue the first number of the Magazine on Oc-
tober 1, 1879.
	Among its contents will be found articles
upon Doctrine, Sacred and General History,
Science, Literature, Art, Music, Biography and 
Travel;  Correspondence of Missionaries, from
all parts of the world; Association Intelligence,
and instructive essays on their growth and 
progress;  Poetry, Wit and Humor, Words of 
Wisdom, etc.
	The Magazine will contain twenty-four
double column pages of reading matter.  It
will be printed upon heavy white paper, in 
clear, new type, with a colored cover and fly-
leaf of advertisements, that will be torn off
when bound.  It will make, each year, a hand-
some octavo volume of 288 pages, being a com-
panion book to the "Millennial Star" and 
"Journal of Discourses."
	We urge the Associations to adopt and con-
tinue the exercises of writing essasys and com-
positions, and the publishing of manuscript
papers, that all possible encouragement may
be given to those having ability to write.
The officers and members of Associations are
requested, whenever articles appear possessing
intrinsic or literary worth, to secure them, and 
forward them to our office for publication.
	We desire the young ladies and gentlemen
of the Associations to feel perfect liberty in
writing for the Magazine, and that they un-
derstand it is distinctively a society publica-
tion, devoted to their welfare, that they can
call "our paper."
	In regard to subscriptions, we respectfully
request the Stake Superintendents and the 
Presidents and other officers of the Associa-
tions to interest themselves in circulating this 
Prospectus, and urging the members to sub-
scribe at once for the Magazine. Agents for
collections will be appointed as soon as prac-
ticable.
	Terms of subscription, two dollars a year in 
advance. Remittances should be promp ly
made by P. O. Money Order, or Registered Let-
ter.
	Address all communications to Junius F.
Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah. P. O. Box 402.


R. S. REPORT.

SAN PEDRO, PIMA CO., ARIZONA,

						July 7, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	It is with pleasure I take this opportunity
of writing to you. We are far away, but
we do not want to be quite forgotten by the
folks in Utah. We are trying to live our
religion and do something in our Relief
Society, but it does not seem as though we
had done much, but we look for better
times. We do not raise any grain here, so
that we cannot do anything in the way of 
storing wheat.
	We held our Relief Society Annual Meet-
ing on the 16th of May; we had a good
time and a good spirit prevaiied. Our re-
ports were all read, showing that we had
received during the year $22 67. Disburse-
ments for the last year, for the needy, $7 05;
emigration, $6 00; leaving a balance in the 
Treasury of $9 62.
	The health of our company is good at
present. We have had so much sickness
that it has taken up nearly all our time and 
strength, but the Lord has blessed us ex-
ceedingly in sparing our lives; we have
only lost one of the company that came
from Utah (that was Bro. A. O. Williams,
who died last fall) and one little babe with
all our sickness; some of the folks have
the chills yet.
	The sisters of this place feel to heartily
endorse the movement of the sisters
throughout Utah with regard to the Anti-
Polygamy Societies and Memorials. We
are always glad to get the EXPONENT, and
it is ever read with pleasure.
			CYRENA MERRILL, Pres't.
			MARIA MCRAE, Sec'y.


THE UTAH CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
WILL re-open for the Fall term Aug. 10th.  Classes in
Vocal and Instrumental Music, Harmony,  [-]locu-
tion, Musical History wi l b [-]ranized at one. A Nor-
mal Course in Vocal and Instrumental Music, and in 
Drawing, w[---] be o[-]ened or the be e[--] o teachers in the 
public sc[-]ools and one fo the no ma students of the
University. Elocu[-]ion, Harmony, and Tneor, classes
free to pupils studying in other departments For terms
apply to
DR.  E.   B.  FERGUSON, Director.
TO THE LADIES!
HEALTH Corsets, Shoulder Braces, Skirt [-]supporters,
Back Braces, and Abdominal [-]supporters, for sale or
made to order by P E. HARPER, First [-]outh Street,
nearly opposite Theatre.
Mrs. ZINA D. Y[-]U[-]G, agent for this Territory.
Physicians and Ladies, call and examine.
HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SAWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at nce, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and w thont [-]ny noise a[-]d confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high  its self-
setting and s[-]lf threading hu[-]le, and absence of springs
and co[-]s renders f both simple and durable  Be s[-]re to 
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, III.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.
NEW SPRING STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings.  Ladies'
Ties, Cu  and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods, Etc., Etc.
DAVID JAMES.
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address. David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.
Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
                                     3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap,   3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc) -   35 Cents each
Brooms,      35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Vel et.  Also a m[--]
[-]election in Flowers.  Feathers, Pushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades, and stripes  Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches.  Good
work guaranteed.
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.
NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace.  Ties a large
variety.  Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
cellent variety.  New Style.  Dress Goods.
And in fact everything you want in general
merchandise. Conference visitors, call at
TEASDEL'S
FRENCH HAIR STORE.
Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style.  [-]ash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.  97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
OFFICE--Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.

Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.
H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

"A Word fitly Spoken is like Apples of Gold in Pictures of Silver."

