No. 3 of Vol. I, and think the young editor
deserves great credit for making the paper so
interesting, We are glad Logan has a local
paper, as it is a thriving town and can surely
make it a success financially. Newspapers
help in a great degree towards educating the
masses of the people.

	WE ARE pleased to be able to announce to
our readers and the many warm friends of
Mrs. Zina D. Young, that she arrived in Salt
Lake City on Sunday, Sept. 14, after an ab-
sence of ten weeks, much improved in health.
Miss Susa Young also returned with her. These
two ladies visited San Francisco and the Sand-
wich Islands, remaining on the island of Laie
some little time. We expect to have some in-
teresting things to publish in our next concern-
ing their tour.

	WE WISH the sisters who are storing grain to
report as soon as convenient after they have
made arrangements for the fall donations.
And every Society, or Ward, where the sisters
own a granary, or bin, for storing their own
wheat will please report particulars,—the ma-
terial of which it is built, the size and capacity,
and the cost, and also how the means was ob-
tained, whether by donation, or otherwise.
Report what quantity of the wheat has been
gleaned, and whether the Society own land on
which they raise wheat, or beans. Please give
full particulars in brief.

	THE RELIEF Society of the Fourteenth Ward
of this city have completed a granary for stor-
ing wheat. It was dedicated on Monday, Sept.
21, by Pres. Angus M. Cannon and his Coun-
selor, Joseph E. Taylor. Mrs. M. I. Horne,
her Counselors, Secretary, and members of the
Society were present. After the dedication,
refreshments were served in the building. I[-]
is large enough to hold 2,000 bushels of wheat,
and cost about $350. Who will say women

[Column 2]
have not energy and enterprise, when from
North to South and from East to West these
granaries are being constructed and filled with
grain by Mormon women? "By their works
ye shall know them."

	THE LAND OF SHINEHAH, a poem of eight
pages, written by Elder O. F. Whitney, is be-
fore us. It was composed during his stay in
Kirtland, when on a mission to the Eastern
States, and is dated, Nov., 1877. The sub-
heading says: "The writer of the poem is re-
presented as contemplating the Kirtland of to-
day and contrasting it with its condition forty
years ago." It contains some very tender pas-
sages, embodying truths and events of actual
occurrence. Joseph the Prophet coming to
Kirtland, the people leaving there, its down-
fall, the Temple, the mobs, afterwards the
flight of the prophet, and other things
are poetically woven into this sublime poem.

"Fair Shinehah! thy land so desolate—
A wounded bird deserted by its mate,
The plumage from its bleeding body torn,
A picture is of loneliness forlorn."

	These pathetic lines will speak to the hearts
of those who remember Kirtland in its former
glory and pride.

	OUR SISTER, Mrs. L. M. Hewlings, returned
on Thursday from a visit to California, where
she has been spending the summer, in excel-
lent health and delighted with the climate and 
the eternal verdure of the Southern coast. It
is hard times for the poor, especially in San
Francisco, and suicides are common. Mrs.
Hewlings lectured twice in Santa Barbara on
"Life among the Mormons," and disappointed
her audiences by speaking in their favor. She
gave them a brief outline of the origin and
growth of Mormonism, the small handful from
which had sprung this wonderful people, whose
principles and institutions had become first a
national, and then an international question.
Facts such as she portrayed, coming from one
who was not herself a Latter-day Saint, elicited
much surprise, and many came to converse
with her and make inquiries, which gave her
a good opportunity to speak in behalf of a peo-
ple many of whom she is intimately acquaint-
ed with, and for whom she entertains the high-
est esteem. Mrs. Hewlings is on her way East,
and only called enroute to say good bye to the
dear ones here. She has resided in this city
for seven years.

	REPORT OF the re-organization of the Ladies'
Relief Society of the Twelfth Ward. A meet-
ing was held on the 13, of July 1879. in the
Twelfth Ward School House for the purpose of
organizing the Ladies' Relief Society. Present
Bishop Alexander Pyper, Couns. John
Druce and Leonard G. Hardy; also Pres. D. O.
Calder, of Salt Lake Stake, Bishop L. W. Hardy
and the members of the ward. After a highly
interesting address from Bishop A. C. Pyper
upon the harmony and unity that should
cha[-]acterize the members of the Ward in their
social and organized capacities; he dwelt upon
the interest and care he, his counsel and the
leading men of the Ward had taken in the
appointment of such ladies as would qualify
themselves to proform the responsiblb duties
of their respective callings. He had a personal
interview with these ladies who cheerfully
consented to take upon themselves and ac-
quiesce in the appointment.
	The Bishop and his Counselors, assisted by
Prest. Calder and Bishop L. W. Hardy, set apart
the following named sisters, President; Mrs
Julia Hooper, Cou[-]selors Mrs. Jemima Midg-
ley and Mrs. Eliz[-] Hooper; Secretary, Mrs.
Ellen Winder; Treasurer, Mrs. Martha Wells.
The meeting adjourned to a future day to further

[Column 3]
consult in relation to the appointment of lady
teachers.
			ROBERT CAMPBELL, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died in the Seventeenth Ward of this
city on the morning of September 18, Elizabeth
Isabel infant daughter of Erastus F. and Ann
Maria Whitney Hall. Deceased was born March
19, 1878. and had been almost a constant
sufferer; She has entered upon a higher and
purer life; and gone to join the innumberable
host of little ones who sing praises to God in
that beautiful land of peace and rest, where
all suffering ceases and there is no more pain
nor sorrow.

	DIED, in the 17, Ward of this city Sept. 25,
1879, Eliza Rose daughter of Richard and
Mary Ann Matthews aged 10 years and three
days. Diseased was a loving and affectionate
child, and had great faith in the efficacy of
prayer, and the administrations of those hold-
ing the priesthood for the healing of the sick.
We sympathize deeply with the bereaved par-
ents, and trust their hearts may be comforted
by the Holy Spirit.


CORRESPONDENCE.

						CLIFTON, IDAHO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 7th of August S[-]sters E. R. Snow, M.
I. Horne, S. M. Heywood and S. M. Kimball
visited our settlement and held two meetings,
during which we all enjoyed ourselves exceed-
ingly, this visit being their first.  They gave
good  timely instructions, and the sisters
feel more encouraged to persevere in the cause
they have espoused.  Sister E. R. Snow or-
ganized a Primary Association, and the chil-
dren are very much interested in their meet-
ings, and they will long remember the good
instructions given them by the sisters.  Many
of the brethren attended the meeting, and
were pleased with what they heard.
	We also have a Y. L. M. I. Association, and
the young sisters seem to appreciate their
privileges in meeting together for mutual
benefit.
	Several copies of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
are taken here and duly appreciated.  We
think it a great blessing and help.  Every
mother in Israel should take it and read it.
	We tender our thanks to the sisters from Salt
Lake City for their respect, confidence and ex-
cellont advice received.
D. E. DUDLEY, [-]or. Sec'y.
WHITLEY, ONTARIO, CANADA,
Aug. 22, 1879.
ESTEEMED SISTER WELLS:
	I feel under obligations to you for your kind
ness in forwarding to me regularly the EXPO-
NENT.  Not only have I been comforted in its
perusal, but it has enabled me to entertain my
lady friends through reading from its co umns.
In conversing with the women of this country,
I find them far behind the times.  Woman's
rights being a question that has not agitated
the masses here, and many view it is a step-
ping up into a plane that they are not designed
to occupy by Deity.  As I am quite a woman's
rights advocate, I have some amusing times,
w[-]en I tell them, that many of the existing
evils of the age if ever remedied must be ac-
complished by them, or their sex, they stare at
me.  I state as my firm belief, that the evils of


intemperance, corruptions in office, and the
eradication of the social evil, can and will
only be accomplished by and through the in-
fluence of woman, and men who view woman
in her true light and the noble sphere God has
designed her to occupy. The minutes of a
mass meeting held by our women last fall, with
the bold and fearless statements there made
and the testimonies given, have aided me very
much in my labors this summer. The idea
that we practice polygamy only for selfish
gratificatiou I am happy to say has forever ex-
ploded in the minds of many with whom I
have conversed.
	I notice wherever I go in this dominion the
young ladies are very numerous, and in watch-
ing the young folks out walking, I am sur-
prised to see the girls generally form compa-
nies of two or three, or groups, to the exclusion
of the young men. Now, having some slight
knowledge of human nature, I was surprised
at witnessing this. On inquiry of one of my
cousin's, residing in Walberton, Bruce Co., I
was informed that most of the young men's
characters are usually so tainted that honora-
ble girls will not be seen in their company.	*
*[-]*	My cousin is raising a family of eight
children, chiefly boys, but neither he nor his
wife can fully sense the danger that exists
around them. To-day darkness covers the
minds of the people.
*		*		*		*		*		*
	With a hope that success may crown your
every [-]ffor[-] to emancipate woman and assist
in bringing her up to her proper standard and
sphere, is the desire of your brother in the
cause of regeneration.
							W. H. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GOOD MANNERS.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	In this chapter I purpose entering more
fully into details, and give some of the es-
tablished rules and regulations in society at
the present day. All of us who have kind
hearts and generous impulses desire to be
sufficiently acquainted with the forms of
social etiquette to ensure the respect of
those with whom we associate by main-
taining our own.
	I know that it is customary among ladies
to like a little gossip about other people's
affairs, and from this very source much
evil springs, and we all profess to despise
it, yet it really seems to render a person
for the time attractive, but upon mature
thought, instead of winning friends it
causes people to draw very disadvantageous
conclusions in regard to those who carry
scandal. This is one of the evils which
should be discarded by us as a people, and
discountenanced, that it may not be incor-
porated in the characters of our children.
	Most persons whose opinion is worth re-
garding have sufficient good, sound com-
mon sense and penetration to see through
the flimsy veil of the envious, or the slan-
derer. It is said by those who have the
best opportunities for observing, that this
is the age of scandal; that there never was
a time when newspapers and journalists
pandered to a low and vitiated taste as at
present. It has ceased to be extraordinary
to deliberately defame and recklessly as-
sault the reputation of those who come be-
fore the public. The continual recurrence
of a thing blunts the susceptibilities; and
we become accustomed to look upon it with
less horror, however dreadful it might at
first have seemed. 
	Every writer, journalist, editor, author,
whatever position in a literary way he or

[Column 2]
she may occupy as regards the public press,
should be careful of the privileges extend-
ed to them, and have some high and sacred
notions of honor and esteem for their fel-
low-beings.
	A writer in the Washington "Republi-
can" says of a certain class of writers: "It
is their office to defame virtue and despoil
worth to feed on the failings of the good,
and fatten on the follies of the weak. Vile
themselves, without a sentiment of honor
or decency, they cannot endure to see
others respected for traits they do not pos-
sess, or beloved for conduct of which they
are incapable. Hence they make the es-
tate of purity the prey of their piracies
and the object of their plunder. Nothing
is so sacred as to deter them, and no emi-
nence is beyond their attack. Is there a
man who stands high in the estimation of
the public, by reason of the excellence of
his character and the quality of his endow-
ments, they rest not until they have
smirched the one and disparaged the other
by the fiendish devices of inuendo and in-
sinuation, which constitute the weapons of
the guilty ambush they keep in perpetual
reserve for those they dare not openly as-
sail for fear of popular resentment. Lives
there a woman whose fair fame transcends
the plane of ordinary attainments, because
of special attributes, accomplishments and
graces, all the precedents of successful cal-
umny and falsehood are ransacked for sug-
gestion of means to depose and humiliate
her, without subjecting the authors of the
detraction to the punishment they deserve."
	It would be well for us all if we could
cultivate that "charity that thinketh no
evil." Perhaps if we understood each other
other better we should be more careful in
speaking of another's weaknesses, or even
faults, and ready to make excuses for those
whom we now unknowingly condemn.
	Society can never be in its relations and
bearing upon our lives what it ought to be,
until the love of gossip is dispelled; and
those who wish to elevate its tone and
maintain a high standard of excellence
should frown it down and refuse to listen
to it. Dr. Holland tells us that "the cure
for gossip is culture."
	We shall now review the rules for visits,
or ceremonious calls, which Mrs. Ward
gives, and trust our readers have sufficient
intuition to know what is best suited to
them. "American men are excused from
morning calls, because their days are occu-
pied with business as a general rule; but
in order that they may be remembered by
those who entertain, their cards represent
them and are left by some member of their
respective families, or by some acquaintance
calling.	*	*	When a gentleman is not
admitted the first time he calls, he leaves
his card for the married lady of the house,
one for her husband, both turned down,
and one folded acress the middle for the
remaining members of the family—daugh-
ters and sons." Upon subsequent occasions
he leaves one card so folded as to imply it
is left for the family. "After any invita-
tion he calls, or sends a card; or, if a mar-
ried man, his wife calls and leaves his card
with her own. If one of the cards bears
their names together, as, 'Mr. and Mrs.
——,' this card turned down is left for the
lady, if she is not receiving; and one with
the husband's name alone is left for the
host, not turned unless he has called in
person.	*	*	*	No lady leaves her own
card upon a gentleman, nor a card bearing
her name with that of her husband. If
guests are stopping in the house, cards must
also be left upon them; or, if calling upon
guests, where you do not know the host

[Column 2]
and hostess, you must inquire if the ladies
are at home, and, not being admitted, leave
cards for the host and hostess, as well as
for the guests. *	*	* There are many
people who give evidence of lack of proper
instruction in their youth, by making use
of the house of those who are strangers to
them, with as much freedom and as little
courtesy towards its occupants as if it were 
a hotel. *	*	* After an interchange of
cards the acquaintance drops, unless fol-
lowed by an invitation upon one side or the
other. When a first invitation is not ac-
cepted, and no reason is given for it other
than that expressed in the usual form of
regret, the invitation ought not to be re-
peated. Among the people of the highest
cultivation it is binding to show ones' ap, 
preciation of a first invitation by a cordial
acceptance, and by allowing nothing that
can be controlled to prevent one from go-
ing. Still circumstances may be such as to
make it impossible, and then an informal
note of explanation is courteous." These
are what are termed general calls, as also
are calls made upon persons on one's visit-
ing list who have been absent from their
homes, either for a long time, or for a lim-
ited time, as for the summer. In these
cases the younger calls first upon the elder,
or where the ages are about the same, those
who return first in the autumn call first up-
on those who arrive later, unless there has
been some remissness during the previous
year, when the one who owes the custom-
ary visit after an invitation calls first, with-
out reference to age, or time of return.

(To be continued.)


ESSAY ON FAITH.

		READ AT A MEETING! OF THE Y. L. A.

	As faith is the first principle of the Gos-
pel, it is necessary to inquire what is faith?
the Scriptures tell us that "faith is the as-
surance of things hoped for, the evidence
of things not seen;" for example if I should
tell you that by going to a certain place
you could obtain a piece of gold or a pearl
of great beauty, and consequently you go
and find it, you manifest your faith by your
works. Thus it is when we obey the
Gospel, certain blessings follow; but if we
say we believe and do not obey then is our
faith vain. It is like the body without the
spirit, dead. It was this living faith, my
young sisters, which caused your fathers
and mothers to obey the Gospel, in their
native lands, and homes; in the midst of
scorn and persecution through faith they
left homes and kindred and all they held
dear and embarked on the mighty ocean
tossed upon the waves and billows for weeks
and months, far from the sight of land sea-
sick and weary, but still trusting in the
arm of Jehovah to bring them safely to a
haven of rest; and many of them had never
known the trials and hardships of life, leav-
ing weeping friends distracted with grief,
who had not faith, and did not understand
the purposes of God. Through faith they
traveled across the plains with the slow
wearisome travel of oxen—but still more
wearisome traveled with hand-carts;
think of it my young sisters: your fathers
and mothers traveling over a thousand miles
drawing a hand-cart, with their rations and
bedding, cooking utensils, clothing and etc,
many of them  with little children; fording
rivers up to their waists and toiling
through miles of heavy sand, and yet by
the camp-fire at night their songs of praise
resounded to God, for the principles of faith
were planted in their bosoms; they had an


assurance of things not seen; by faith they
arrived in these valleys; they were not then
the rich fertile valleys you now see. By
faith they subdued the sterile, barren soil
and through the blessings of God succeeded
in making the wilderness blossom as the
rose, it may yet be said of us in succeeding,
generations as it has been said of Moses;
they struck the soil, and it brought forth
abundantly, but it has taken years of ardu-
ous toil—toil that now tells on the con-
stitution of those who have passed through
it.
	Time would fail me to tell you of the
trials of our faith caused by crickets, grass-
hoppers, droughts, floods, and also by the
persecution of our enemies; but in all we
are an exceedingly blest and happy people;
and through faith we intend to grow and
increased and spread abroad till like Abra-
ham of old, of our increase there shall be no
end. 
	Now my dear young friends you need
not think that because we have done so
much there is nothing for you to do, you
have got to spread abroad; you need
not think that the Territory of Utah is
going to hold the children of Zion you
will have to build up new Colonies.
	It is for our young people as they are
called upon, to leave fathers and mothers
for Zion's stakes must be strengthened
and her "cords lengthened." "Give us
room that we may dwell, Zion's children
cry aloud." The Scriptures are fulfilling
right before our eyes; the wicked are
afraid that we will take away their name
and nation, but the prophecies must be
fulfilled through earth and hell should dare
oppose.
	Therefore contend earnestly for the faith
delivered in these last days to your fathers
that you may be enabled through faith to
help bring to pass the purposes of Jehovah;
and may the quickening influence of the
Spirit of God rest upon the children of
Zion, that it may be as a living fire within
them bringing forth much fruit unto right-
eousness, then can you say with the Poet.
		"In danger in trials and afflictions
		We have shared with the worthies of yore,
		That we at truths banquet may join them,
		When errors great conflict is o'er."
							MARY FERGUSON.
	Spanish Fork, Sept. 20, 79,


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		LETTER FROM LULA.

	GRANTSVILLE, TOOELE CO., U. T.,
						Aug, 12. 1879.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	What a world of good is often the result
of some simple change in the life of a weak,
suffering mortal! change of air, change of
diet, change of scenery and of associations;
these little things often work wonderful
cures. My year-old boy and myself have
realized the blessings and benefits of those
changes, to a marvelous extent, during the
past week.
	For more than a month our visit to the
country had been talked of. But being un-
decided as to what length of time the visit
might extend, (as I still am,) I could not
leave home until after the August election.
	No, although longing, almost starving
for a breath of fresh country air, I prize my
right of franchise too highly, to throw away
lightly chances of voting for good men as
officers, and run the risk of bad ones being
elected without having made use of the lit-
tle power I hold in the matter. But the
next morning after election day, "baby"
and I, under the tender guardianship of
kind, careful "papa," set out on a forty-five

[Column 2]
mile journey and an extended visit to our
friend "Mary," of Grantsville.
	Providence seemed to take special charge
of us during the day. Every thing that
transpired appeared to be in our favor.
And although our poor baby, was quite sick
and weak, the journey though somewhat
fatiguing to him, proved beneficial rather
than otherwise.
	"Papa" only remained with us three
days, just to become convinced that "baby"
was really improving, and with careful nurs-
ing would, through the mercies of God, be
all right. Then he returned to the busy,
dusty city, leaving "baby" and I to recruit
at leisure, in care of trusty and most hos-
pitable friends.
	Now, as I sit in the cool, green shade,
writing a promised letter to our dear EXPO-
NENT, listening to the dashing and splash-
ing of a beautiful mountain stream and the
song of birds among the branches over head,
I feel a profound sympathy for ever so many of
my friends and acquaintances, who need
just such changes as have come to me in
the last week, but are not privileged as
I am.
	I think we should have one more set of
philanthropists in Salt Lake City. We
have the Sunday School advocates, who see
to it that the children and young folk's
have their pleasant "outs" and jolly times
at least once a year; and we have the "Com-
mittee for the Old Folks Excursion," who,
for some years past, have each summer,
given our aged friends and the infirm and
the very poor among us, a first class ex-
cursion. But there is an intermediate
class, belonging neither to the young nor
the old, who live in a sort of social starva-
tion, who mingle with no crowds of pleasure
seeking and find no time nor opportunities
for recreation, no seasons for refreshment
and rest. I refer to that class of over anx-
ious over tasked wives and mothers who
"stay at home forever." I will not here
enter into details, or attempt to explain the
'whys and wherefores" in the case. We
all know that the class of wives and mothers
I have named is too long. And we also
know that if any living creature needs
changes, such as I mentioned at the begin-
ing of my letter, it is the child-bearing
mother. If they are beneficial to others,
they are of twofold benefit to her. I hope
we may some day have a committee or com-
mittes, either self commissioned or au-
thoritatively appointed, to work up this
subject and make it one of general, in-
terest, as others are, and must be if success-
fully handled to promote the general good.
	Here let me say, should the ideas ad-
vanced in the last paragraph chance to reach
the ears of the Anti Polygamy workers of
Utah, they may gather from them the be-
lief that I have been making a complaint
in behalf of neglected polygamous wives;
which would be in keeping with the other
beliefs expressed by them in relation to
our people and their systems—an entire
mistake. As far as my acquaintance
extends among both polygamous and mon-
ogamous Mormon families, the wives of
the former enjoy far more freedom, and
many of them are less tied at home by
family cares than the latter. *	*	*
	Polygamy, when properly understood
and lived in, certainly lightens the bur-
dens of home work and home cares more
than any other domestic arrangements can.
	This is but one of the least of its advan-
tages; but I should think that almost the
dullest intellect might comprehend this
simple fact. While the higher and holier
blessings pertaining to the order of plurality
of wives, we cannot expect those to under-

[Column 3]
stand who have not received the light of
the Gospel. Nor can we, who have been
favored with a testimony of its truth,
estimate or appreciate its full value.
	For myself, and for my sisters in the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
my fervent prayer is that we may ever
have abiding with us, sufficient of the
Holy Ghost to enable us to honor the princi-
ple and practice of plurality of wives,
under all circumstances. Then I believe,
we shall be able to prove ourselves faithful
in all things.
	The people of Grantsville are lively, good-
natured, and sociable so far as I can judge
by the small opportunities I have had of
mingling with them. This branch of the
Relief Society is doing well, both officers
and members being ambitious to understand
and perform all their duties. An excellent
spirit is manifested at their meetings.
The hot, dry season has had its deleterious
effects here as in other localities, grain
and fruit crops being scarcely half as good
or abundant as in former years.
	There are but small chances for gleaning
or saving up grain in any way here this
season.
	Oh! may the Saints be more united and
more diligent in serving God than they
have hitherto been, that His blessings may
not be withheld from them.


[For the EXPONENT.
AMAZONIAN LILY.

	Every body is interested in something
wonderful, and as I have seen something
truly wonderful, I will endeavor to present
it to you through my eyes.
	The Victoria Regia, the Amazonian lily,
has caused a great deal of excitement and
pleasure, and thousands of people have
been to view this gigantic flower, which
has been in bloom in the Golden Gate con-
servatory for three nights. The queen lily
is the only one in the Golden Gate, and is
considered to be the queen, and is the largest
flower in the floral kingdom. It occupies
apartments by itself. The leaves are 6 x 8
ft. in diameter, and are a dark rich green
with many veins. They have raised rims
and one would suppose the leaf would be-
come filled with water, but nature has pro-
vided for all emergencies. There is a
groove in the centre of the leaf which
causes the water to run off. There is a
tube that furnishes air to nourish this plant.
It is of the Nymthaera class, having no
bulb. This wonderful flower, when in
bloom, is a marvel of loveliness, and is an
interesting study to those fond of botany.
	When the bud appears upon the surface of
the water it resembles a wild rose in shape,
but very much larger. It requires three
days for the bud to mature after it appears
on the water, and in the evening at 9 p.m.,
it bursts forth with a loud report, and an
odor resembling the pineapple pervades the
room. In its first stage it is a cream white
and its petal of a thick waxy nature. In
its second stage it is blush pink, and in its
third, rose red; it blooms but three times
and always at night. It is eight times as
large as a large rose and is very double. In
its third stage it does not remain open so
long, but withers and dies, and the seed
begins to grow and is like a pea, and inside
the pea is a dry powder.
	A raised platform has been constructed
to afford a better view of the pond, on the 
surface of which repose these gigantic cir-
cular leaves with their curious raised rims.
The appearance of the leaves on the water
is far more striking when viewed by an


artificial light than when seen in the day
time. The leaves are capable of sustaining
a weight of eighty pounds. There are two
leaves on exhibition in the fair, and every
day a young miss of this weight is placed
upon the leaf. During the blooming of this 
queen lily we were blessed with the finest
moonlight nights I ever saw here, and it
was warm and delightful. The conserva-
tory and the path leading to it were gaily
lighted with Chinese lanterns, and just in
front of the Lily was an electric light
	Thousands of people walked out, a dis-
tance of six miles and the street cars were
more than three times full, but always
room for one more. We had to make
changes as we would if going to Europe,
and rush more to get a seat; I made eight
changes, but I saw the wonder if I did get
jammed nearly to death. There doesn't
seem any place for little folks in a crowd.
I'm very anxious to know who is here writ-
ing for the EXPONENT, and allow me to 
compliment her for her well written article.
	The park in which is the conservatory
ends at the Cliff and will no doubt be fully
described by your correspondent, and she
may have anticipated me in my descrip-
tion, and have given you a more accurate
delineation of this wonderful Amazonian
lily.
	I think the last number of the EXPONENT
super excellent.
								NELLIE.
	San Francisco, Sept. 5, 1879.


72		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SIR ROWLAND HILL.

	Sir Rowland Hill, who recently died in
England was the man who introduced what
is considered the Post-Office Reform. To
inaugurate this movement he suffered sor-
rows, anxieties, pangs of hope deferred, and
a thousand and one ills such as all, great
reformers in any department of business
have to struggle against and overcome, if 
they ever attain their object.
	Mr. Hill was an almost obscure school-
master, (we are told) when he commenced
his attack upon the Post-Office. He made
himself acquainted with the subject in all its
bearings, and decided in his own mind on
a uniform penny-rate: "but he preferred to
let his idea of uniformity have time to take
hold of the reader's mind before starting
his revolutionary views in their startling
distinctness. This wise caution was amply
justified by the result. As Mr. Hill was
not employed in the Post Office, that depart-
ment rose against him in a body. He was
pooh-poohed by practical men, who knew
their work, as an interloper, an outsider,
an amateur meddler," "a fellow from Bir-
mingham coming to teach people their busi-
ness." His success was great although it
took a great deal of time.
	Sir Rowland Hill was born in 1795, he
wrote his pamphlet when he was fourty-one
years old. It was entitled "Post Office Re-
form." His services to his country and to
mankind can scarcely be overrated; especi-
ally was his work a blessing to the poor,
who under the old system had not the ad-
vantages of postal communication. This 
man like many others, served as a living
example of ingratitude. In 1854, he was
made Chief Secretary of the department.
	"In many respects Sir Rowland Hill may
be cited as an almost typical Englishman,
and especially with regard to the mature
age at which he advanced into public life.
The device of the mulberry tree tardy to
put forth its leaves and at last displaying
both leaves and fruit together, has been
taken by an Italian, but it would indicate


the lives of the vast majority of success-
ful Englishmen at least as accurately as it
did that of Lodovico Sporza.	*	*	"At the
age of sixty-five he was made a kinght
Commander, of the Bath, a distinction hon-
estly earned twenty years eariler." The
life of Sir Rowland Hill was full of honor
and dignity.


Why Cucumber are bitter.—One of the causes
gardeners give for cucumbers being bitter is that
such are grown too slow; that in order to secure
sweetness and crispness, they should be forced to
grow as fast a posible.

	Caution.—Never use for culinary purposes an
earthen dish after the glazing is worn from the
inside. The next coating is litharge of lead. I
can point to one instance of lead-poisoning for life
resulting from ignorance of this danger.—J. D. M.

Canning Fruit.—) have canned fruit for years by
pouring the liquid hot from the stove into the
glass can, first taking the precaution to put in a
spoon. Thus the much dreaded fruit canning is
made easier. Try it, but never forget the spoon.
J. D. M, San Jose.


[Column 1]
NEW GOODS.
HOME-MADE for the fal of 1879 Young ladies Single
Shawls, Ladies [-]ingl[-] and Double Shaw[-]s,  New
St[-]les in Stripe and Cn[--]k Dress Flannels, New Style
Check Waterp[---]fs. N w S[-]yles in Linseys. Fine White
Yarn 2 and 3 ply for Ladies and Baby [-]t[-]ckings, Grey
and Whi[-]e Blanke[-]s, P[-]ain White, Red and Blue Flannels.
Twllle[-] Red, White a[-]d G[-]ey F[-]annel, Wool Batting,
Snell's Soap. Brooms, Trunks, Brushes, and other Home
Made Goods.		MINNIE HO[-]N[-], Clerk,
			Old Cons[-]itution Bu[-]lding, Salt Lake City.

DON'T USE TOO MUCH PEORIA STARCH AT A TIME.
WHITEST! STRONGEST! BEST! 
AS LESS IS REQUIRED THAN OF MOST OTHER KINDS.
PEORIA 
SUPERB GLOSS
STARCH
FOR THE LAUNDRY.

PEORIA
IMPROVED CORN STARCH
FOR THE TABLE.
For Sale by Utah Wholesale and Re-
tail Grocers.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
If not you should do so at [-]nce, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and w thont any noise a[-]d confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high Its self-
setting and self-treading hu[-]tle, and absence of springs
and co[-]s renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to 
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[--] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & James,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of 
women.

TO THE LADIES!
HEALTH Corsets, Shoulder Braces, Skirt Supporters,
Back Braces, and Abdominal Supporters, for sale or
made to order, by P. E. HARPER, First South Street,
nearly opposite Theatre.
	Mrs. ZINA D. YOUNG, agent for this Territory.
	Physicians and Ladies, call and examine.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of 
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, P[-]ushes, Velvet and Rib-
bon in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z.  C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURE IMPLEMENTS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT L[-]KE CITY
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.					97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Consitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER INFURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates.--Proverbs, Chapter xxxi, Verse 31.
