VOL. 8.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 30, 1879.		NO. 7.


For the EXPONENT.
THROUGH DARKNESS, LIGHT.

I wonder what's amiss this morning—
	Where has the light of summer fled?
It seems a week since early dawning—
	A month since yesterday was sped.

Time's leaden feet, that move so slowly,
	Are not more heavy now than mine;
These busy hands lie limp and lowly,
	As under wizard spell malign.

A dread, chill gloom broods o'er my spirit,
	A sense of loss and emptiness—
Not agony, but something enar it—
	A joy in sorrow's sable dress.

The fount of tears is dry and burning,
	My hear almost too numb to ache-
Had I a dream before the morning,
	From which I do not dare to wake?

It does not seem a dream of sorrow,
	But rather joy I may not know-
Enshrined in some too distant morrow,
	Or yesterday too long ago.

And through it baby eyes were glancing,
	So violet dark, so melting blue,
And silken baby locks all dancing,
	As summer airs breathed softly through.

Oh speaking eyes! Oh, murmured music,
	From baby lips so rosy sweet!
Oh, half unconscious, soft endearments,
	How charmed they hours, alas! too fleet.

Oh, sheen above those shining tresses,
	Like aureoles by angels worn!
Oh, dimpled baby loveliness,
	Which I too fondly dreamed my own!

A shining angel, won from heaven,
	Enshrined in loveliest human mould,
To motherhood and me was given—
	A gift too rare for earth to hold.

How empty now these arms which bore it;
	How bleak this world in which it smiled;
How heavy now this heart which wore it—
	Oh, tender Christ, give back my child!

Nay, little one, I dare not murmur
	That God loves you as well as I,
But that he lent you one brief summer,
	I will give thanks until I die;

For, love, it made you mine forever—
	How great reward for little grief!
Eternity all ours together,
	Rejoice, my heart, that time is brief!

		LU DALTON.


]Column 1]
		[For the Exponent.
	THOUGHTS ON THE POETS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

CONTINUED.
	The Poets!—There remains a host yet to
name, but perhaps I ought to give and take
a rest; some future time I will resume the 
theme D. V. At present I will close with
Shakespeare and Milton. I feel it is almost
presumptuous to attempt remarks upon
those two grand luminaries of the poetical
world, but I am sincere in my devotion to
all that is grand and great, and sincerity "is
the immediate jewel of the soul," and they
would never have despised it. Many pass
them by unread, and therefore unappre-
ciated, being considered dry and belonging
to a past age. A lady remarked one day,
she wished some of the sisters would revise
Milton, for there was much in him she did
not like, and he was not a woman's rights
man. Think of such words from a woman
of intelligence! Had she any appreciation,

[Column 2]
or comprehension of that immortal poet?
Had she read him with the heart and with
the understanding? I presume to think
she had not. It takes a deep-thinking
mind, and one who has read much and has
some classical information, to soar and delve
with Milton; especially in his inspired
writing, his most wonderful poems of
"Paradise Lost" and "Paradise Regained,"
"Samson Agonistes," and others. His son-
nets are also beautiful and full of truth.
"Paradise Lost" is a poem for all time, it
can never grow old; and the mind that can
soar with him and realize the scenes he
draws therin, will never come to the con-
clusion that he needs revising. This poem
was written under adverse circumstances,
when he had passed through most remark-
able reverses, and when he had become
blind. Think of it! and you will at once
come to the conclusion that he was indeed
inspired. The world believes and acknowl-
edges this.
	He lived in the reign of Charles I, and 
through the great revolution and regicide
of that monarch; but in his principles he
was decidedly republican, as all his writ-
ings show, and was the friend and secretary
of Cromwell. He was educated at Christ's
College, Cambridge, and from the beauty
of his features fine complexion and fair
hair, the collegians called him "the lady of
Christ's College" His excellent mother,
his accomplished father, an elder sister and
his younger brother, Christopher, formed a
family that displayed a model of an English
home. His fathe[-] was distinguished for
probity and moral worth, and he watched
over his gifted son with constant care, pro-
vided him with excellent tutors, sent him
to St. Paul's School, London, and afterwards
to Cambridge. He was an intense student,
and when only a youth had attained to so
much learning that it was rarely tutors
could be found that were capable of instruct-
ing him. His father intended him for a
clergyman, probably a Bishop, but Milton
found that conscience would not permit
him to enter the church of Archbishop
Laud and Charles I. His indulgent father
yielded. He passed his studious leisure at
Horton, amidst the fair green meadows, the
silver streams, the thick woods filled with
nightingales, and beneath the shadow of
the battlements of Windsor Castle. His 
youth was a happy one, but his maturer
life was one of struggle, of sorrow, of neg-
lect, of blindness, and of poverty; yet amid
all this, his mind was lit up by the fire of
inspiration, and he produced a poem "not
for an age, but for all time." His first mar-
riage was an imprudent one; two months
after the wedding his wife left him, on pre-
tence of visiting her parents, and he quietly
set to work and wrote a treatise entitled
"Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce," which
called down upon him the indignation of 
the Presbyterian clergy, regardless of whose
opposition, he proceeded to pay his ad-
dresses to a beautiful and accomplished
young lady; but his wife hearing of it, re-
turned to him, and throwing herself on her
knees before him implored his forgiveness.

	Soon his heart relented
Towards her, his life so late, and sole delight,
Now at his feet submissive in distress.
	[Paradise Lost, Book 10.

[Column 1]
	He also extended his protection and sup-
port to her parents and their numerous
family, at the very crisis of their ruin, in
consequence of the battle of Naseby, so
fatal to the Royal cause. In 1674 he lost
his father, who expired in his arms. His
first wife bore him three children, and died
in childbed; his second wife also died in
the same way; his third wife was an exem-
plary woman. Milton's two daughters were
taught to read six different languages,
without understanding any of them. They
wrote for him while he dictated his noble
poem of Paradise Lost, which has been a sub-
ject for several native artists. One of his
biographers describes him at this time, and
says: "If anything could enhance the sur-
passing merits of this noblest achievement
of poetry, it is the circumstances under
which it was written—blind, reduced in
his fortunes, encompassed with dangers, as
well as with darkness, his mind had lost
none of its energy. The spirit of the man
and the Christian was unbroken by the an-
nihilation of the patriot's hopes. In the
night which enveloped his visual sense, the
heaven of intellect was revealed with more
distinctness to that gaze which was thence-
forward to be fixed on the realities of eter-
nity." His manners were affable and
graceful, his temper grave, without melan-
choly, his affections ardent. In him were
combined all the rarer qualities that dignify
our nature, and his works are the just ex-
pression of his character, as they are the 
monuments of his genius.


[Column]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	The National Education Association held
its annual comvention in Philadelphia
recently. Mr. John Hancock of Dayton,
Ohio delievered the inaugural address.
Addresses were made by Hon. J. W. Dick-
inson; Rev. Robert E. Thompson, Hon,
John D. Philbrick, and other celebrated,
learned men.
	The ladies of Cincinnati have inaugurated
a movement to relieve the city of the
smoke from the manufactories, which is
very disagreeable. The papers say the
women will no doubt be successful; which
may be taken as a compliment as it is
equivalent to saying women accomplish
what they undertake.
	Thursday Aug 21, Tremont Temple in
Boston was the scene of a conflagration
which has destroyed the audience hall,
and the organ and also done considerable
damage to other portions of the building.
The galleries upon three sides have either
quite fallen, or pushed through the division
walls. The platform burned was the one
where the Rev. Joseph Cook delivered his
Monday evening lectures, and where many
eminent speakers men and women have
stood. The organ will no more pour forth
its grand music. The loss is said to be less
than $100, 000 with ample insurance.
Some half-dozen persons are injured, with
burns and bruises.
	The Emperor William is the fifth male
member of the Hohenzollern family who
has lived to celebrate his golden wedding.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	Report of the Heber City Relief Society
for the quarter ending April 30, 1879.
	On hand Feb. 2, 1879, $24 30; received
during the quarter, $19 40; Total, $43 70.
Disbursed to the poor, $33 65. Balance on 
hand at date, $10 05.
	The Society at present numbers 79 active
members; average attendance, 48. Mrs.
Margaret Muir, President; Mrs. Ann Mur-
dock and Mrs. Elizabeth Rasband, Counsel-
lors; Mrs. Ellen Lee, Secretary; Mrs. Me-
lissa Reynolds, Assistant Secretary; Mrs.
Louisa Johnson, Treasurer.
	For the quarter ending July 31, 1879:
Donations received, $14 90. Disbursed to
the poor, $7 25. Balance in Treasury,
$7 65.

	BEAR LAKE CONFERENCE Y. L. M. I. A.

	On Friday and Saturday, July 17 and 18,
the young ladies of the Bear Lake Stake
of Zion held their first Conference in Paris,
the Relief Society, under the presidency of
Sister Lindsay, holding Conference jointly.
Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne, S. M.
Kimball and S. M. Heywood were present.
President Charles C. Rich was on the stand
both days, and by request gave some good
instructions. Elders James H. Hart and
George Osmond also addressed the Confer-
ence on the second day. President Nancy
Pugmire and her Counselors, Amy E. Cook
and Alice Rich addressed the large audi-
ence with marked ability, and were listened
to with profound interest and attention.
	After singing and prayer, Pres. Nancy
Pugmire made a few remarks and alluded
to the sisters' mission in the interest of
mutual improvement. Mrs. L. M. Hart,
Secretary, read reports from the various as-
sociations throughout the Stake, dating
from time of organization to the present,
giving a report of eight associations, all in
good working order, having 273 members,
and showing a good average attendance.
Some were newly organized. The reports
show a healthy financial condition, and
after liberal disbursements have a credita-
ble surplus in the treasury.
	Pres. Alice Rich, of the First Ward of
Paris, represented that Association; said
it was evident to all that the desire to im-
prove was becoming general. They had
established a five cent Temple Fund, which
met with great favor. They also edited a
paper monthly, which was calculated to
give interest to their meetings, and develop
an intellectual element that otherwise would
not be called into action.
	Pres. Hetty Dunn represented Blooming-
ton; said the young ladies there were try-
ing to keep pace with other settlements in
the good work of improvement. They
took an active part in GLEANING last sum-
mer, which enabled them to stow away
considerable grain. They had the founda-
tion laid for a good LIBRARY, having on
hand BOOKS to the amount of $22.
	Pres. Sarah Alred represented St. Charles
Association. Said that scarcely three months
had elapsed since she took charge there.
They edited a monthly paper, entitled "The
Intellectual Gem;" it brought out the tal-
ents of the young, that would otherwise be
lying dormant.
	The President of Lake Town being ab-
sent, Counselor Mrs. Amy E. Cook repre-
sented the Association. Said the prospects
were that when they had gained the expe-
rience of older associations, they could re-
port as favorably as any.
	Sister Tyson represented Randolph, the
President being absent. Said although they

[Column 2]

numbered but few, they were wide awake
in the cause and anxious for advancement.
	Pres. Julia Budge represented the Second
Ward of Paris as being in a fair condition.
Many of the girls were away in the sum-
mer season, engaged in the dairy business
and other ways, consequently the meetings
were not so well attended.
	Ovid was represented by the President of
the Primary Association. The organizan-
ization being so near Conference they had
not met as yet.
	Montpelier was represented by Abbie
Osborn, President Cousins being absent.
Said their organization was of but recent
date, yet there was an interest awakened
among the young ladies, and they were an-
xious to improve in everything that was
elevating and good.
	Sister Kimball said she had listened with
great interest to the reports; hardly ex-
pected to find us so far advanced. Was
pleased to see that union and good feeling
prevail among us, and the willingness mani-
fested in responding to the calls so promptly.
Wished to encourage the editing of papers
in our associations, thus giving an opportu-
nity to exercise all the literary ability we
may possess. Felt to thank God for the
earnestness that characterizes every move
of the young sisters in Bear Lake.
	Sister Horne said she could see consider-
able improvement in the young ladies of
Bear Lake since she was here last. Was
glad to see the young shoulder the respon-
sibilities as well as they did. It would not
be long before we would realize the result
of our labors. Felt to give her faith and
prayers that we may continue in the good
work in spite of any opposition. Said we
had those at the helm who, if we listened,
could teach us true principle, and there was
much praise due those who stepped forward
so willingly; she knew the Lord would
bless and strengthen them and fit and
qualify them for their labors. Advised us
to begin right at the alphabet of our re-
ligion, so as to have a good foothold; it
would always prove a safeguard under all
circumstances. Wished us to do away with
all slang phrases, cultivate refinement in
every form, clothe our minds with suitable
thoughts, even if we did not pay so much
attention to outward adorning. Thought
there was great credit due the gleaners of
Bear Lake; felt confident the Lord would
bless those who did all they could to store
away grain for the time of need, and that
would be obeying counsel also. Wanted to
have the number of papers duly reported
that were taken by the sisters, and what
papers they were. Felt to urge the neces-
sity of home manufacture in all branches
practicable. Recommended Sister Suow's
poems for the perusal of the young people,
and all the Church works. Also recom-
mended us to inculcate true principle and
correct morals in the minds of the young.
	Bro. Rich expressed great pleasure in
meeting with the young ladies. Said he
was pleased to see how earnest they were
in the good work they were engaged in,
considered it praiseworthy. Was acquaint-
ed with the sisters who were visiting us,in
Nauvoo; they were good sisters and worthy
of our attention. Said we lived in the last
dispensation, when the Lord had again
spoken. and we must heed. He sometimes
thought we hardly appreciated the bless-
ings we enjoy daily. For instance, those
who have their sight don't always appre-
ciate it, and never could until deprived of
it. We can aspire to almost anything, if
we live worthily before the Lord. And is
there anything more desirable than the
Holy Priesthood—to be queens and priest-

[Column 3]

esses in the next world? Is not that worth
living for? So let us be faithful, do all we
can to elevate ourselves; knew we had tal-
ent in our midst. Remember, we stand on
the principle of righteousness, and not fine
clothes. Advocated home manufacture; he
always patronized it as far as practicable.
If we stop importing we would soon become
an independent people. Endorsed the sis-
ters' remarks. Said "Continue to labor
and you will be blessed and sustained in all
things."
	Sister Snow felt to urge the manufacture
of straw, for that was within our reach;
little boys and girls could help us materi-
ally in that branch. Suggested the forming
of a committee in each association for that
purpose; felt assured we could make a suc-
cess of it. In Salt Lake there was too much
of the gross element to go into that busi-
ness. God had given us ability, and not
altogether for our own personal advantage,
but to help benefit others. Asked the Lord
to bless the efforts of the young people of
Bear Lake.
	Mrs. L. M. Hart was elected Stake Secre-
tary, and Miss Caddie Rich, Stake Trea-
surer.
	Sister Lindsay thought the young ladies
had done remarkably well; encouraged
them in well-doing. Hoped they would be
able to retain the good instructions they
had received, and put them into practice.
Wished the Presidents of Primary Associa-
tions to be present in the afternoon, to give
in their reports. Singing.  Benediction.
	MRS. L. M. HART, Sec'y.


ORDER.

	I have chosen Order for a subject to write
upon. "Order is the first law of heaven."
then how essential it is for us to observe
order in all places, at all times and es-
pecially in a place of worship, for where
order is observed there will be peace, and
the spirit of God will prevail; therefore it
is necessary for us to keep order in our
meetings: the younger girls should try to
keep from whispering and laughing as it is
very ill-mannered, neither is the Lord
pleased with it; and our meetings were
organized to teach us the way of the Lord
aud although we cannot become perfect all
at once yet if we keep on trying we will at
last succed and come off victorious and in
the end wear the crown of the righteous.
How beautiful to go into a house where
perfect order is kept, there we see hap-
piness beaming from the faces of both
mother and children, and everything works
as harmoniously as clock-work: whenever
we visit such a home we are not in a hurry
to leave, but we love to stay and see the
happiness, and feel the peaceful influence
of the spirit of God for in such a home it
dwells. Order is the key to comfort in
every home and without it all is disorder
fretfulness and ill-temper, are the result;
Order is a very easy lesson for a child to
learn and would soon become as easy for
them to put things in their proper places,
as to throw them down anywhere but it we
wish children to do right, we must set the
example as they are ever on the watch to
see what those that are older than them-
selves do, and are ever ready to pattern
after them, whether it be good or evil; that
we may set a good example at all times is
my earnest prayer.
						S. A. CAMERON.


Father Hyacinthe is advocating the mar-
riage of priests in Paris.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		51


ONLY A WOMAN.

BY HESTER A. BENEDICT.

Only a woman, shriveled and old!
The prey of the winds and the prey of the cold.
		Cheeks that are shrunken,
		Eyes that are sunken,
	Lips that were never o'erbold.
Only a woman, forsaken and poor,
Asking for alms at the bronze church-door.

Hark to the organ! Roll upon roll
The waves of the music go over her soul!
		Silks rustle past her
		Thicker and faster;
	The great bell ceaseth its toll.
Fain would she enter, but not for the poor
Swingeth wide open the bronze church-door.

Only a woman, waiting alone,
Icily cold, on an ice-cold throne.
		What do they care for her—
		Mumbling a prayer for her;
	Giving not bread, but a stone?
Under old laces their haughty hearts beat,
Mocking the woes of their kin in the street.

Only a woman! In the old days
Hope caroled to her, her happiest lays;
		Somebody missed her;
		Somebody kissed her;
	Somebody crowned her with praise;
Somebody faced up the battles of life,
Strong for her sake, who was mother and wife.

Somebody lives with a tress of her hair
Light on his heart, Where the death shadows are;
		Somebody waits for her,
		Opening the gates for her,
	Giving delight for despair.
Only a woman—nevermore poor—
Dead in the snow at the bronze church-door.

							Selected


[Column 1]
		[For the EXPONENT.
	SEX IN MIND—WOMAN'S EDUCATION. 

	Many of those who argue most strenously
for the co-education of the sexes on the
same lines, by the same method and with
precisely the same ends in view, assume
the position that there is no sex in mind,
and attribute to the influence of a diverse
education, the mental difference of sex
which manifest themselves so distinctly
about the time when the girl blossoms into
womanhood and the boy disappears in the
man. To our thought this idea is scarcely
less absurd than it would be to attribute to
education the bodily differences that then
declaire themselves, or to endeavor by means
of the same kind of physical training and
by the adoption of the same pursuits to as-
simulate the female to the male body. Both
labors would be fruitless. The difference
of sex is something more than an affair of
clothes, it is more enduring than this per-
ishable tabernacle. It is an eternal, pre-
existent principle, that was with us before
we assumed the poor habiliments of immor-
tality and will still continue with us in the
glories of the never-ending eternities.
When the great Father of all created us, we
were formed firstly spiritual, after that
mortal. In the image of God created He
man, male and female created He them,
first as spirits in the heavens, next on the
earth with tabernacles of flesh to clothe
these immortal spirits; and thus the cause
of sex in our bodies is the existence of the
same principle in the intelligent power that
dwells within and that gives to them, life,
feeling, consciousness and power of will.
The body is not the greater but the soul; the
spirit fashions the body not the body the
mind. As well might it be claimed that
the clothes which cover our persons are
greater than our bodies and the causes of
the mental and bodily differences that exist
between man and woman. Furthermore
this principle of sex has existed from all

[Column 2]
eternity and will eternally abide, that the
generations of the Holy Ones in the heavens
may continue and that the coming forth of
the sons of men on the earth may not cease.
The temporal is after the pattern of the
eternal and the perfect on earth is prepared
for the celestial beyond. It is because of
this fundimental appearance, reaching back
beyond the present life that we claim for
the perfect development of man and woman-
hood there should be differences of training,
different modes of imparting and supplying
the desirable knowledge; for with Paul, we
are satisfied that the man is not without
the woman in the Lord; or, in other words,
man and woman complement each other's
being, neither is perfect in the fullest sense
of that word, without the other.
	We are no enemies to the education of
woman. We hold that she is entitled to
all the mental culture, and all the freedom
in attaining the same,necessary to the fullest
development of her nature, and that the
aim of her education should manifestly be
the perfect development, not of manhood,
but of womanhood, by the methods and
discipline most conducive to this end.
We presume that no person will deny that
the two sexes are formed for different func-
tions, and that the influence of these func-
tions pervades and effects their entire lives.
This much being granted it appears to us
plain that we ought to recognize sex in edu-
cation, and to provide that the method and
aim of mental culture i[-] woman should
have regard to the specialities of her physical
and mental nature. No woman can rise
high in spiritual development unless "she
take a holy care of the temple of her body."
	Nor is this all, we consider that the sys-
tem of education applied to the training of
our daughters should have regard to the
peculiarities of their conditions, to the
special duties of life for which they are des-
tined, and to the range and kind of special
activity, mental and bodily to which they
are fore-ordained by their sex and organiza-
tion of body and spirit. Whatever aspira-
tions of an intellectual kind women may
have, the majority cannot be relieved frem
their fore-ordained work as the mothers
and nurses of the children of men, and inas-
much as by far the greater portion of wo-
mankind will continue to assume the holy
state of wedlock, the education of girls
certanly ought not to be such as would in
any way clash with their organization, in-
jure their health or unfit them for the duties
of this state of life. It has been well said
"Nor is it a sufficient reply to this argument
to allege,as is sometimes done,that there are
many women who have not the opportunity
of getting married,or who do not aspire to
bear children; for whether they care to be
mothers or not, they cannot dispense with
those physiological functions of their nature
that have referance to that aim, however
much they may wish it, and they cannot
[-]isregard them in the labor of life without
injury to their health. They cannot rebel
successfully against the tyranny of their
organization; the complete development
and function thereof must take place after
its kind."  Also "It would be an ill thing
if it should so happen that we got the ad-
vantages of a quantity of female intellectual
work at the price of a puny, enfeebled
race."
	We cannot for a moment encourage the
absurdity that it may be that in the distant
future, a race of sexless beings will be evol-
ved, who, "undisturbed and unannoyed by
the ignoble troubles of maturity" shall
carry on the intellectual work of the world.
On the other hand we cheerfully admit that
there have been many striking instances of

[Column 3]
women with extraordinary mental powers,
numbers of whom have manifested a moth-
ers sublime graces of true womanhood,
and these instances may be justly quoted as
evidence in support of the right of woman
to the best mental culture, but it is entirely
another matter when these examples are
adduced to support the assertion that there
is no sex in mind and that the course of
education should be identical for both
sexes. It is not enough to point to excep-
tional cases of women who have under-
gone such a training,without bodily injury,
and have proven their high capabilities;
without doubt there are thousands who can
and will so distinguish themselves. The
question is, is it the highest manifestation
of wisdom to encourage such a training,
will it result in the best good to those who
pass through it, and in the greatest hap-
piness to the human family. It should be
the aim of a true education to raise every
woman to the ideal of a complete and per-
fect womanhood, it certainly cannot be a
true education which would operate in any
way to unsex her, for as we have already
shown, sex is fundimental, lies deeper
than culture and cannot be ignored or de-
fied with impunity. "You may hide na-
ture but you cannot distinguish it."
	All true education should commence
with the life of the child. A parent may
not wish to enter into the "why and where-
fores" of eyery request made or instruction
given; but that portion of education which
prepares the child for a happy healthy life
on earth and eternal joy hereafter cannot
be commenced too soon. During the earli-
est years of a woman's life causes are opera-
ting to bring her to perfect development,
and should be so recognized. The damage
done to her health is often done in very
early life. In this regard we agree with a
learned physician who writes: "The nor-
mal evolutions of nature, either physically
or physiologically are never paroxysmal.
If the forces which direct development
find expression in paroxysm it constitutes
disease, not health. It is almost impossible
to conceive of a woman who is developed
from a child in one year. Yet this sudden
transformation is regarded as a fact in the
genesis of woman. * * *
	The sex structively and  functionally,
from infancy to pubity, is in a state of slow
and progressive evolution. * * *
	But the law of the woman is not the law
of the child. The woman must follow those
laws of health which keeps her healthy,
the child must be taught to obey those
which will ensure health in the woman,"
and not these laws alone, but every one, in
its time and season, which will enable her
to stand side by side with man, as his help-
mate, either in the changing scenes of
mortal life or in the unfading years  of 
eternity.
		BRUFORD.
* 	"It can hardly be doubted that if the
nursing of babies was given over to man
for a generation or two they would abandon
the task in despair or in disgust, and con-
clude it to be not worth while that man-
kind should continue on the earth.


A reduction of wages in the cotton mills
of England and Scotland is making much
labor trouble. A conferance of miners
representing 20, 000 of their class has been
held in Manchester recently. A resolution
was unanimously passed in favor of emigra-
tion to the United States.


52		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 30, 1879.


WOMAN'S RELATION TO HOME.

	First, "Do the duty that lies nearest thee."
This is a motto which it would be well to re-
member, and practice in our every-day life. It
is a very common remark that woman's king-
dom is home; we hear it on every side, and we
heartily endorse it. The average duties of a 
woman's life are home duties, and the avoca-
tions which arise from the relationship of the
family; a work which men have not the tact,
or delicacy, to manage. To women, we most
earnestly believe, is committed the happiness,
the peacefulness and the dignity of the home.
Yet almost every woman will find that her
work differs from her neighbor's, according to
her circumstances and capabilities. When wo-
men have a home their nature is such they,
attach themselves to it, but to live entirely
within it, to have no other thought, would be
the ruin of all the faculties of self-development,
that elevate and enlarge the soul. Because
woman is so blest as to be moored in the haven
of home, does it follow that she has no duties
outside of it? Shall she breathe no other at-
mosphere? Is there no development outside
the home that woman's nature demands?
Has the world no claim upon women, and
has woman no place in it except her home?
We have heard from some persons that she ha
not, that there is plenty for women to do in-
side their own homes. There may be plenty
of work for men to do inside their own work-
shops, offices, or study, and with the delights
of their home to make a little variety for them,
it would be more than women have who con-
fine themselves within their home; with very
little change except to take care of restless ba-
bies. How would men like any boundary set
for them? What opportunity has a woman
who devotes herself exclusively to her home,
for improving her mind and relieving the mo-
notony that becomes ofttimes unendurable to
women, making them irritable, nervous and
unhappy?
	Has not woman some relationship to the 
world? Is she not a citizen of the world? Does
she not possess individuality? and is not her
opinion of some weght and consequence to
others besides her own immediate family?
Women have large souls, and they should have
room to exercise them. It is not that they
need more work, but they require fresh stimu-
lus, and occasionally to step out of the tread-
mill into a broader path. We grow tired of
hearing that men outgrow their wives men-
tally; that while the mother is bearing and
rearing her children, the husband, the father
is growing every day in mental vigor, and in
activity in those pursuits which feed and
strengthen and elevate him. Then let woman
have every avenue open to her for culture, and
let her express her views on, all subjects with


as much freedom, and be listened to as atten-
tively as man.
	There need be no rivalry between men and
women, there should be none; let each preserve
his or her own identity. Nature has made
sufficient compensation for the peculiarities of
each. Let woman remember that no home
can be really attractive without intelligence,
without a broader sympathy than that which
confines itself to one's own family. Whatever
efforts woman can make, whatever she may do
that is not detrimental to home life, that she
should be permitted to do without ridicule and
without censure. [handwritten] E. B. Wells.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IF THERE are any Y. L. M. I. A. that issue
manuscript papers who have not reported to
us, we would feel obliged to have them report
by letter at their earliest convenience. State
the name of the paper, the date of its com-
mencement, and how often issued, the subjects
treated upon, or any other items of interest.

	A BOOK entitled "Songs of the Heart," will
shortly be issued. It is from the pen of Han-
nah T. King, a well-known writer and regular
contributor to our columns. The title indicates
the style of the book, as the poems are really
out-pourings of the soul. The first part con-
tains Early Poems, the latter part those of a
later date. This book will be a desirable addi-
tion to the home library, and also to the libra-
ries of the different associations.

	WE ARE most happy to be able to state that
the Executors of the estate of the late Pres.
Brigham Young have been relesed from the
penitentiary; where they were, sent for con-
tempt, by the decision of Judge Boreman
Chief Justice Hunter, the newly appointed
Judge, has revered the decision and given his
reasons in a plain, simple and clear manner in
his speech in the court room. He has
shown respect for the law and manifested a
spirit of fairness which does him credit.

	WE WOULD say to the branches of Relief So-
ciety in the various districts, wards and settle-
ments, that as Stake Conferences are held quar-
terly, it is entirely unnecessary to make other
reports than those made for the Conference.
The same report must be entered in their re-
spective books, and may be read in the branch
meetings, if desired, as of course all cannot
attend the Stake Conference, but a separate
report would be superfluous, and the labor of
the Secretary is not a little thing. Those who
are not acquainted with these matters have
little idea of the work it requires to act as Sec-
retary.

	THE TERRITORIAL Fair of Utah for the year
1879, will commence in Salt Lake City, on the
First day of October, at such place as will be
hereafter designated. The list of premiums
offered, embracing Gold Medals, Diplomas,
Silver Medals, Bronze Medals and Money, it is
hoped will prove a sufficient stimulus to elicit
the finest specimens of Art, Industry and Stock
which our thriving Territory can produce. No
person is eligible to a premium that exceeds
two dollars in value, unless he is a member of
the Society.

	LIST OF LADIES' WORK.—Best collection of
useful and ornamental articles produced by any
Relief Society Silver Medal; Best two pounds
of cocoons, $2; Best one pound of cocoons by a
girl under 13 years of age; $1; Best one pound
of reeled silk, $2 50; Best six home-raised silk
mitts, $2; Best six home-raised silk hair nets,
$2; Best six home-raised silk netted neckties,

[Column 2]
$2; Best six home-raised silk woven neckties,
$2; Best ten yds, home-raised silk ribbon, $2;
Best specimen sewing silk, $1, Best specimen
floss, $1; Best specimen twist, $1; Best four 
yards silk lace, $1 50.

	WE ARE desirous of ascertaining all the facts
in relation to woman's work in any public ca-
pacity, and would therefore respectfully solicit
the Secretaries of the various organizations to
send us a list of the officers of the Society, orAssociation, they represent, and the number of
members enrolled, with the date of organiza-
tion. We often find it necessary to refer to
these things, and would like to be posted in
regard to the matter. Is there a Relief Socie-
ty in ———? and who is the President? and so
forth, are questions asked very frequently in
this office. There are other reasons why we
need to possess positive information on these
subjects, and we shall be glad if the Secretaries
will respond to this call promptly.

	WE HAVE frequently received letters from
sisters residing some distance from this city
and off the line of the railroad, asking if some
of the good sisters who do missionary work
among women's organizations will visit them;
feeling that they need instruction, encourage-
ment and advice from those who are experi-
enced in matters pertaining to woman's work
in an organized capacity in the Church. It is
only right that these sisters should be visited,
although they assuredly are not forgotten, for
it is well known their interests are identified
with the interests of the sisters here, and some
measures will be taken to have them visited
when possible. We are fully aware that the
Bishops and brethren in the country would
willingly take the sisters who visit them from
one settlement to another, and indeed we have
been assured that such would be the case from
North to South. Let the sisters in those far-off
districts be sure that they will certainly be
visited by some of the most experienced sisters
from here as soon as practicable.

	"THE CONTRIBUTOR" is the name of a
monthly magazine about to be published in the
interest of the young people of this Church.
We published the prospectus in our issue of
Aug. 15, and trust our readers perused it care-
fully. The first number of "The Contributor"
will be issued on the first of October next. A
home magazine, with all that the word im-
plies, is needed in any community, and more
especially is it necessary where there are so
many young people yearning for intelligence
of a higher order as there are here. The organ-
ized associations demand some avenue through
which they may be truly represented, and thus
become more positively what their name signi-
fies, MUTUAL helps to each other; and in no
way could this be so well and so satisfactorily
accomplished as through the press, and by a
paper in their own special interest. Therefore,
we hail this new publication as a harbinger of
good to the young, and hope it will receive the
patronage of the people, who are looking for-
ward and expecting great things from our
youth. We trust the young ladies will not be
backward in doing their share towards making
it interesting, by contributing to its [--]lumns.

	SUGGESTIONS HAVE been made by several
people in regard to a library for the inmates of
the penitentiary. It was a good idea, and the
result of the publishing of articles by the daily
papers on this subject has brought forward a
number of books, magazines and newspapers
for the use and recreation of the prisoners. The
work has commenced and we hope it will con-
tinue. It may be the means of stimulating
some and arousing the faculties of their better


natures, and giving them fresh thoughts; but at
anyrate it will afford them a pleasant temporary
relief in their solitary hours; and who knows
what good seed may be sown in their hearts
through the benevolence of those who aid in
this noble and philanthropic undertaking.
Another thing—there are sometimes innocent
persons thrown into prison, and how weari-
some must be the hours and days when they
sit alone, apart from their loved ones and asso-
ciations. It is good to think of the unfortunate
and isolated, and seek to restore the erring to
the path of righteousness. If one can do but
little, remember even the little may be like
the widow's mite mentioned by the Savior.
We trust our sisters will reflect upon this sub-
ject, and not leave their books and magazines
tossing about until they are too much torn to
be read, but gather up a quantity of them and
forward them forthwith for the benefit of those
who are so unfortunate as to be shut out from
the rest of mankind. Be charitable with that
we have, that the Lord may bless us more
abundantly. There may be some redeeming
features in the characters of criminals, or ex-
tenuating circumstances, that the masses are
ignorant of.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		53


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

						LAIE, July 26, 187[-].

MY DEAR SISTERS:

	This is Saturday, just one week to day since
we arrived, and yet two weeks must elapse be-
for this letter will leave the Island. We sailed
from San Francisco on the S. S. "Zealander,"
which sailed on Monday, July 7, at 12 m. We
saw a few of our friends in San Francisco, only
one Latter-day Saint. After going on board, I
soon bade adieu to the and and retired to my
room; I was very ill four days, but I was kindly
cared for during the time. The Captain said
he had never made a better voyage. *	*	*
On the Sabbath: we had the Episcopal service
on board ship. There were two ladies, widows,
with whom we became acquainted, who were
very pleasant companions for us throughout
our journey.
	When we arrived in Honolulu the Captain
sent us in his carriage to the Hotel. It was a
lovely place, such trees and foliage as only the
tropical climates can produce, the most lovely
flowers and delicious fruit.	*	*	*
	Saturday the 19th, at 6 a. m., we left Hono-
lulu in a comfortable carriage, traveling up
hill most of the time. Around was the most
lovely scenery one could imagine, elegant
homes, embowered in trees and foliage. The
cemetary, with the yew-trees and other varie-
ties, and flowers of all kinds, I cannot describe
by pen. After we had journeyed six miles we
came to the La[-]e. Here the wind always blows,
an there is a huge precipice reaching over
half a mile; the road is down, down, and very
crooked, paved with large boulders of rock.
It takes two natives to hold the rope attached
to the end of the wagon to keep it steady.
This is the place where once in time of war
the natives were driven, and leaped from this
precipice like sheep rather than surrender.	*
*	There is an iron railing to hold to, to pre
vent falling. Below is a lovely valley dotted
with farms, forming a pretty pastoral picture,
and beyond is the sea, making the view most
picturesque.
	As we passed on there were large fields of
wheat raised by Chinamen, and Kalé patches,
but these were mostly under water. The Kalé
is what the poe is made of; the root looks like
a long turnip; you can take it up, cut off the
tops, set them again and they will grow an-

[Column 2]
other crop. The rice looks like wheat, but
they transplant it in rows. Some of the fields
were almost ripe, and the Chinamen make the
most fearful noises to scare away the birds.
Sweet potatoes are replanted by burying the
tops. We saw starch plants and many others
that were new to us. When we arrived at
Laie at 3 p.m. the natives came out with a
banner, drums, flutes, and sang and danced.
They had a song composed for the occasion,
and while we partook of supper stood in one
corner of the room and sang.
	Sunday, 20, we attended Sunday School; it
commences at 9 a. m. The native children
sing our songs in their own language. They
sing "Our own Sunday School" nicely; it was
very interesting to hear their exercises.
	At 11 a. m. attended meeting; there was a
good congregation, some of the people had
walked six miles. They were comfortably
clothed, almost all wore hats with flowers on
them, and flowers around their necks; they
call them "Lei." Susa and I have had them
put on our necks; and one of saffron blossoms,
just fancy!
	Monday we went to see the sugar-cane fields.
The drouth has injured it, yet it is doing better
the last few months, on account of the frequent
showers. There are one hundred acres under
improvement; it takes eighteen months to per-
fect one crop.
	I find many plants and shrubs exactly like
ours in our own door yards.	*	*	*	There is
a kind of vine grass here that is a great nui-
sance to farmers in first breaking the soil. It
takes nine yoke of oxen and four men one day
to break up one half acre; thus you see the
natives must work hard. Every Saturday the
natives stay at home and do their own work,
cook Kalé for the week to make poe. I rather
like their cooked Kalé.
	On the 24th Pres. Cluff and family, all the
white people that could go and some natives
went to the mountains and took picnic to cele-
brate the day. We had a pleasant time, the
scenery was delightful.
	Sister Alexander (the daughter of our much
esteemed Brother and Sister Corey, of Provo,)
has a fine daughter and is doing well. Many
in the mission made it presents, more than I
ever saw for a new arrival, so great was the
joy.
	Friday I attended the Relief Society; there
were about forty in number. This is a very af-
fectionate and kind people. I often think of
the labors of our Elders among them in former
years, Elders George Q. Cannon and Joseph F.
Smith. I wish I could describe how I felt in
receiving gifts from the sisters of the Relief
Society; one brought a melon, another a little
bag of sweet potatoes, a cucumber, a few eggs,
a fish, a cabbage, and so on. I thought at first
they were for the poor, but Sister Cluff in-
formed me they were tokens of love for Susa
and me; and when meeting closed the sisters
picked them all up and brought them to the
house, shook hands with us cordially and bid
us good by.
	We attended a school-examination of five
schools together; it was very interesting, al-
though I could not understand. The happy
faces, intelligent black eyes, and variety of en-
tertainment were all charming. These schools
are all supported by law, all men teachers.
The examination was held in the large stone
meeting-honse. *	*	*

	The land where our people live is much of it
low mountains, or high hills, covered with
eternal verdure; there is a constant breeze of
wind from the sea, that forlu ately takes away
the musquitoes and makes it delightful day
and night, yet there is no bed without coarse

[Column 3]
bobbinet to protect the sleeper. Unfortunately
the sea wind is so strong around the houses of
our mission that trees will not grow, yet there
is a carpet of green to the sea. The air is so
impregnated with salt that the door-locks,
scissors, and things of this kind rust; a good
cooking-stove will only last five years—it rusts
and peels off.
	I am sitting where I can see the beautiful
white foam dash against the shore; it is indeed
a luxury to bathe in the sea. I am improving
very fast in my health. The natives are more
excusable for their weaknesses than white peo-
ple, because of their condition and circum-
stances, in my way of thinking.
	I realize our first Elders must have had re-
markable experiences, and passed through
many trials in their first mission here. The
sister who presides over the Relief Society here
was baptized by Elder George Q. Cannon; her
husband is a brother of Napela, who lives in
Salt Lake City. I see some grey-haired vete-
rans here, the fruits of the labors of our first
Elders. *	*	*	Pres. Cluff seems to
spare no labor to make this mission a success.
The people here do not have to garner up any-
thing for winter, yet there are many obstacles
to overcome. There is not a barn in the coun-
try, and there is no need of one; the cattle all
look well, but the natives do not know how to
be as kind to their horses as they might be.
	The natives make their own hats, and there
are very few shoes worn.
	I have had a dress made of calico in the style
worn here; it is very comfortable. *	*	*
Only think, it has been ten days since we ar-
rived here, and not one dust storm. There
are no pains spared to make our visit pleasant
and interesting, and I trust that God will bless
us, that we may be no detriment to the mis-
sion. My health is improving every day. I
ever feel to say, God bless all my sisters who
work for the advancement of the kingdom of
God. Please remember me to Bro. Naylor in
the Sabbath School. My love to all who in-
quire for me, and to Pres. Wells in particular,
also to Sisters M. I. Horne, B. W. Smith, P.
Woodruff, in fact to all my good sisters at
home. I hope to be at home in September, if
the Lord wills it so. Sister Cluff and Susa join
in love to the dear friends at home, or, as the
natives would say, "aloha." God bless you
forever is my prayer.
						ZINA D. YOUNG.


IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, of diphtheria, at Harrisburg, Wash-
ington Co., Utah Territory. Damie Earl, be-
loved daughter of George A. and Zilpha D. Earl.
Damie was born July 8, 1875, and her death
occurred on the 7th of August, ult. She was
four years and one month old, and was a very
precocious child, seeming to give promise of
rare gifts, and knowledge far beyond her years.
	Also, at the same place, Ellen, infant
daughter of Harriet Ellen and Wm. Laney,
Jun., who died Aug. 21, aged eight months
and two days. She was taken with scarletina,
but suffered very much with pain in her head.
How many such are taken away, perhaps in
love, and although we mourn their loss to us,
yet we cannot but feel "Our Father" doeth all
things well. "Suffer little children to come
unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heav-
en."


Convents are so numerous in Belgium
that the ringing of their bells at night has
beeome a nuisance which the law is invoked
to abate.


54		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

	SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., July 31, 1879.

	Well, here it is the very last day of the
second summer month! So little done, so
much left undone that was laid out to be
accomplished before the close of this period
of time. Here I have been, until weeks
counted months of precious time gone, in
this great, stirring, busy, fast city, seeing,
hearing, watching, waiting for I scarcely
know what, and always and ever intending
to do myriads of good things, finish numer-
ous pieces of thought-work, and send them
out through the enchanted realms of the
press, to help defend the right, expose the
wrong, cheer somebody's solitary hour,
make somebody happier, kindle a smile
upon some sad face, or a hope in some des-
pairing heart. Indeed, we meant to do a
vast amount of work, while one duty con-
stantly lapped over upon the trail of an-
other and one important, or unimportant
event followed another in such quick suc-
cession that before we were aware the door
of the very last day of the month had swung
back upon its invisible hinges, and the fig-
ures "31" stared us in the face, nay, almost
overwhelming us with the astounding fact
of much unfinished work upon our hauds.
	A grain of sand is a little thing, that
would scarcely be noticed in a cup of water,
yet the hard beach, on which the mighty
ocean beats with fury, and over and against
which its monster waves are stayed, is
made up of these small grains of sand. A
drop of water is a little thing, yet the vast
ocean is made up of these drops. A mo-
ment is a small fraction, or atom, of time,
yet moments make up the threescore years
and ten allotted to mortal existence; com-
paratively few reach that period, they drop
all the way along from a second of time
down to old age, the threescore and ten,
and to some there is an extension beyond
this portion of years allotted; but when
the last day comes it is useless to plead or
petition for further time to close up unfin-
ished business.
	From the first day of mortal pilgrimage,
the angel of time follows with warning
whisper, "Prepare!" Yet all the bright
morning of youth we loiter, linger over
some glittering toy, or saunter, playing by
the way, chasing gay butterflies, until, ere
we are aware, the hot rays of the noontide
su[-] are upon us, and whether we would or
no, we are forced to take up the burden of
life and move on. Sometimes, alas! we
move in a careless, listless manner, never
heeding the warning voice, "Prepare, pre-
pare!" but when the last moment comes,
time is up; it stops short, like "Grandfa-
ther's Clock," "never to go again." Time
ends, eternity begins.
	Well, what are those who have only a
remnant of this precious material going to
do? Sit still with folded hands when there
are so many wrongs to be righted, so many
to be clothed and fed, so many souls to be
won from the paths of darkness, so many
captives to be released from the prison of
evil habits, lifted out and up into the light
of liberty and truth? No, no! this will
never do! we must not be idle. But there
seems a positive necessity for some new
and better machinery than has ever yet
been invented, (wonderful age though it
be) by which we may manufacture garments
from the shreds of our immortality, to leave
behind us when we have joined that "innu-
merable caravan" and taken our places in
the silent chambers of the dead. True,
the lightning of the clouds is sent around
the world and under old ocean's bed to the

[Column 2]
bidding of mankind, but for ordinary life-
work this is not available, and it is no use
waiting and wishing, for the faithful hands
on the dial of time are warning us to con-
tinue the conflict, if we would conquer in
the "great coming battle." So we will take
up such instruments as are within our reach,
and if we cannot handle the sword we will
gather a few smooth pebbles that perchance
may slay some giant (or at least a dwarf
giant) that stands in the way of human
progress and reform. If we cannot con-
centrate all the pulsations of our hearts that
are now made in the space of twenty-four
hours into one mighty throb-beat, which
scientists declare is of sufficient force to
throw a ton of iron a hundred and twenty
feet into the air, we can, by determined,
persistent labor, achieve in fragments, re-
sults which in the aggregate will have great
weight and magnitude.
	And now, even if it is the last day of
the month, and the last part of it at that,
we will make an effort to grant your very
reasonable request, and in part, at least, ful-
fill our promise to your dear EXPONENT.
We need not occupy much time or space in
describing the geography of this peculiar
and wonderful place, for a portion of your
readers, we are certain, are fully aware of
the fact that San Francisco is a city built
upon sand. Unwise though it may be, it
is nevertheless true; sand-flats and sand-
hills, and a great portion made-land over
the water. It is affirmed by knowing ones
that all these sands contain gold. If so,
the owner of a sand-bank may be the pro-
prietor of a gold-bank; but this is rather
mixed and benefit doubtful. The sand-
hills are usually steep and lofty, and from a
distance appear almost as inaccessible as an
eagle's nest among mountain crags the
princely dwellings that crown them,—
doubtless some of the dwellers partake of
the haughty, warlike spirit of this bird of
prey, for it is asserted, and ofttimes reiter-
ated, that they swoop down and gather up
much spoil from the sons and daughters of
toil, with as little remorse as this self-same
bird exhibits in carrying away the one poor
little ewe lamb of the flock. To my mind,
however, such a commanding view of land
and water, of a bay large enough to float
the navies of the world, navigated and
beautified a rare combination of island,
mountain, plain, city and hamlet, would
naturally tend to inspire the heart to ways
and means of improving and benefiting
their fellow creatures toiling below them,
and that plunder would be as far from
thoughts as light from Egyptian darkness;
or, to manufacture a modern figure, as far
from them as the new political parties of
this State are from electing their nominated
candidates for Government or City office.
And by the way, California abounds in par-
ties; they seem to be made to order, and
we assure you the assortment is varied and
interesting—calculated to suit the tastes of
all classes and conditions. All a man has
to do (the women do not have this precious
privilege as yet) is to decide as to the party
with which he will vote at the coming elec-
tion. Indeed, to say the least, this is a rare
season for political parties in the Golden
State. They spring up like mushrooms,
and among the clear-thinking portion of
the people, both men and women, these su-
perfluous parties are considered of no prac-
tical use. There is a strong sentiment, too,
among the women, that all this fog froth
will be scattered by the light of the "better
day coming." Then "the lord of creation"
will not have things all his own way. They
see and feel the danger of this strife, and
although they do not desire to [--]ume irk

[Column 3]
some and responsible duties, which the
Sixteenth amendment will thrust upon
them, they will not shrink from their part
in securing and enforcing laws that shall
tend to promote the greatest happiness to
the greatest possible number of the people.
This proposed amendment is the hope of
thousands and tens of thousands, not of
women only, but of true, noble-hearted,
far-seeing men; and it is bound to come,
and for it we will work and pray, and let
all who desire peace and good order say,
"Amen!"
	We might enlarge further upon this sub-
ject, having attended several great political
rallies and taken notes of observation; our
aspirations are increasingly decided for the
decent in politics. Time and space warn
me to leave the matter for the present. We
have so many things to say, so much to de-
scribe, that we almost fear to commence up-
on anything; for we are in the condition of
the little girl, who, when enquired of why
she talked so much, replied, "Cause I have
something to say." So we have something
to say. And first, if you please, we will
give a pen picture of a visit to "Cliff House"
and "Golden Gate."

(To be continued.)


CHESTER SANPETE Co., Aug. 3, 1879,
DEAR EDITOR;
	As I was reading a letter from Nellie in
the far off golden state of California I could
not help but be struck with the comparison
between her home, surrounded with vice
and iniquity and our little peaceful vale sur-
rounded with joy and happiness.
	The morning is beautiful. There is no
sound of noisy vehicles and passing feet but
all around is quiet. The little meadow lark
chirps out her sweet tune as a herald to the
Sabbath morning. The robin and the red-
breast harmoniously join their mat in song
with hers making a most delightful chorus.
My six little ones cluster round me, for the
morning kiss, ere their departure for the
Sabbath school; And as I look at their
beaming faces and gladsome smiles I cannot
help but think I am indeed blest, and not
all the riches in the world could entice me
away from my humble but happy home.
Here are taught principles of virtue and
truth; and the golden rule is the motto of
this little village. There is no swearing,
thieving, murdering, &c. going on here and
I feel to thank my heavenly Father for the
privilege of being gathered with the saints
in this vale of peace and rest. Long may
the sisters of the Latter day saints live to
bless the hour of the revealing of the gospel
to the prophet Joseph. Success to your pa-
per, may it live long to cheer and bless the
sisters of Zion is the prayer of your sister.
		L. A. CHESTER.


RE-UNION PARTY.

	A Reunion Party of the Nephi R. S.
convened in the Social Hall on the 23d of
June, the Eleventh Anniversary of the
Society. Committee: Mrs. R. Udall, Mrs.
E. Miller, Mrs. G. Knight, Mrs. H. Jones,
Mrs. S. A. Andrews, Mrs. M. Miller, Mrs.
H. Knight and Miss Harley. President
Teasdale and Counselors, Bishop Andrews,
Bishop Sperry, and their Counselors, and
Patriarch J. G. Bigler were present. At
12:30 two hundred people sat down to din-
ner. After dinner Chairman R. Udall called
the meeting to order, when a beautiful bou-
quet of wax flowers, encased in an elegant
globe, was presented to President Amelia
Goldsbrough by the officers of the Society


and a large photograph of President Taylor
to each of her Counselors and Secretary.
An address was read by Mrs. E. Miller, on
presentation of the gifts, expressive of
the love and high appreciation of their sis-
ters’ labors for the last eleven years; and as
they are retiring from the presidency of the
Nephi Branch of the Society, to occupy the
position of the presidency of the Relief So-
ciety of the Stake, they have our united
faith, and we pray the blessing of God to
rest upon them. Songs by Mrs. E. Grace,
Mrs. S. A. Andrews and Pres. Teasdale;
recitations by S. A. Andrews and C. Bigler;
toasts by H. Jones and George Kendall.
Pres. Goldsbrough, Counselors and Secretary
spoke, expressing their appreciation of their
presents, and also of the love they had for
the Society. Pres. Teasdale followed wilh
a very encouraging address; said the sisters
of the R. S. were his warmest friends, and
he would always be proud to assist them.
Pres. Mary Pitchforth and others spoke a
short time, encouraging the Society, and
invited all who had not joined to do so.
Dismissed at 7:30, when dancing com-
menced. J. W. Cummings, of S. L. City,
addressed the assembly in a spirited and
impressive manner. Closed with prayer.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
PERILOUS TIMES.

	This appears to be a momentous period
in our history one such as the young peo-
ple of Zion, have never before witnessed.
A time of both local and general interest,
not to us alone, but to the world at large.
The newspapers are filled with accounts of
famine drought, fires, floods, shipwrecks
and earthquakes, while crime of every
name and nature is rampant through the
land, and the gaunt forms of disease and
death, stalk hand in hand together, roam-
ing, about hither and thither at will, with-
out any thing to impede their progress or
stay their ravages. There is truly a dark
and, gloomy prospect before the inhabitants
of the earth, but it is only what we have
been taught to expect, and, according to
the prophecies, will prove only a beginning
of troubles.
	But to come nearer home, to subjects of
more vital interest to us as a people. The
past few weeks, have developed some
strange things; members of our community
have been subjected to indignities and bare-
faced injustice at the hands of unprincipled
Federal officials, and public indignation, is
aroused at the assassination of Bro. Standing
and the persecution of some of the Saints
in North Carolina and other places.
	Truly this is a time fraught with great
events, and the time is near at hand that
will try the hearts of the people, and no
doubt some will grow faint-hearted and
give way to the temptations of the world,
and forget their obligations to God, and
their to fealty the King of Kings,by breaking
their covenants and turning traitor to the
cause which they have espoused.
	But I trust that the majority of the people
will become more united, as the pressure
from the outside grows stronger, and the
sisters may be one with the brethren in
the maintenance of our rights, and promo-
tion of truth, and spreading of the Gospel.
If we do this we have nothing to fear, for
God is at the helm, and will protect us as
long as we do right and serve him faith-
fully; and to do this we must put away all
envy, jealousy, fault-finding and strife from
our midst, and live as brethren and sisters
should.
	St. George, Aug. 17, 1879. KATE.


TO HUSBAND'S.

	Always complain of being tired, and re-
member that nobody else gets tired.
	Your wife should have every-thing in
readiness for you, but you should not do
anything for her:
	When your wife asks for money give her
a nickle ask her what she wants with it,
and when she tells you, ask her if she can't
do without it. Then go down town and
spend four times the amount for cigars, for
they are a necessity.
	Go down town of an evening stand a-
round on the street corner and talk politics
—it's more interesting than to stay home
with your family.
	Charge your wife not to gossip, but you
can spin all the yarns you wish.
	Have your wife get up and make fires
but dont[-] get up yourself until the rest of
the family are eating breakfast, as you
might take cold.
	Wear old clothes, aud make yourself as un-
tidy as possible until your wife's health
fails, then it would be best for you to fix' up
some, for in all probability you will want
another when she is gone.
	When you are told to bring anything
home with you from down town, be sure
and forget it, as it is such a consolation to
your wife to know that she can depend up-
on you.
	Always deceive your wife when you can.
She will have more confidence in you.
	Have a smile for everybody you meet,
but get a frown on before you go home to
meet your wife.
	Any one observing these rules may ex-
pect to be happy, and all those around them.

							DAISY DARE.


[For the EXPONENT.
	LABOR.

	There are many kinds of labor both of
the body and of the mind, and woman labors
in many different ways. We take flour and
with labor we make bread: we take wool,
and with labor we make yarn, socks, cloth,
and many other things; this is labor of the
body.
	While we are working with our hands:
we are studying with our minds, to deter-
mine which will be the best way'to cut the
cloth in order to make the most of it.
	Then there are many different kinds of
labor and each of us is more inclined to one
than another. A great many of our young
women think, when they are washnig,
baking, scrubbing and scouring, "If I could
only qualify myself and obtain a situation
in some store or office I would be satisfied."
	Another will say, "If I could be a school
teacher," another, a dress maker, another,
a cook etc., etc.—each one striving to labor
according to her talent: we should qualify
ourselves to fill each and all of these posi-
tions. To become an indpendent and self-
sustaining people, we must all labor.
	"There is no excellence without labor,"
and excellence in all things is our aim in
life, as mothers and daughters in Israel.
We are the people that should excel in all
things; we have that promise if we are
faithful, and we should all strive to attain
a high standard of excellence; all labor with
all our might and main, and help to bear off 
this Kingdom.
	CHARLESTON. 	C. C. B.


Victoria has reigned 42 years.


R. S. REPORT.

JUAB CONFERENCE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Juab
County Stake organization of the R. S. was
held in the Nephi Tabernacle on the 20th
of July. On the stand were the board of
officers of the Stake and Branch, also Presi-
dent of Levan Branch; Pres. Joseph Young,
Pres. G. Teasdale, Patriarch J. G. Bigler,
and several other brethren were present.
	After the usual opening exercises, Pres.
Amelia Goldsbrough made a very few re-
marks, expressing her thankfulness for the
opportunity, and to see that so many of the
brethren felt interested in our behalf and
were present at our meeting. Said we had
visited Levan and Mona, and could say that
she felt thankful to find that a good spirit
prevailed among ahe sisters of those settle-
ments. She then introduced Pres. Joseph
Young, who said: "My sisters and friends
have expressed a wish that I should speak
to them. It is only a few of these meetings
of the Relief Societies that I have ever
been present at; I have had invitations
from my sisters, for which I am thankful.
I do not know that there is any one that
appreciates the noble acts of my sisters
more than myself. The first Relief Society
was organized in Nauvoo by the Prophet
Joseph Smith; he gave the sisters then the
necessary instructions to enable them to do
their duty. My sisters are doing a great
work, and their works are appreciated, and
I feel to rejoice with them. I wish to say a
word to the singers I have heard to-day; I
am much pleased to hear our illustrious
Sister Grace, whom I have heard so many
years ago. I have never heard a sound that
draws me nearer to the Holy Spirit than
the sweet songs of Zion; it reminds me of
something that I expect to hear when I
pass behind the veil, when all will stand in
their own place, where everything will be
perfect and perfect order will be observed;
this people can never attain to the glory
we are looking for without it. I wish to
observe all rules and order wherever I am.
I have met with the sisters and praised
their good works; I like to see the poor re-
lieved, the sick comforted. Where is the
sister that does not feel blessed in doing
good? God has made us of that cast and
character, and we should do all in our
power to promote the good work. The
Lord called upon Joseph Smith to organize
an institution called the Order of Enoch,
which will be brought about in the due
time of the Lord, which Order will super-
sede all other orders and societies, where
all will be provided for according to their
needs. The day will come when we shall
have a model Zion. This people must adopt
principles of economy. I can say this peo-
ple are the best people upon the face of the
earth; I can also see their follies. I am
willing to live on scanty meals, if I can but
live in the Zion of our God. If we are
united no power can prevail against us.
There is no such thing as dodging the pur-
poses of God; the government of God and
His order will live when everything else
passes away. Look after the young; do
not let them associate with strangers; lead
them in the right path while they are
young, that they may not depart from the
truth. God bless you and all the Priest-
hood and Bishops, and all the faithful in
Zion. Amen."

	Sister Grace sang, by request, "O Saints,
have you seen," &c.
				A. L. BIGLER, Sec'y.


56		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HIS DOLLAR OR MINE.

	EDITORS WOMAN'S JOURNAL:—I should
like to ask a question. Does the wife earn
anything who cooks three meals each day
all the year round; who does all the wash-
ing, and ironing, and mending, and most of
the making for a family of six? That is
what I do in my own family. Now when I
pay my fall tax is it my husband's two dol-
lars or my own that I pay? According to
the pilot he gives me the money. I think
I have earned it. I used to get regular
wages before I was married, in a house
where I did not work half as hard as I do
in my own, letting alone the nursing and
rearing the children that have to be taken
care of night, as well as day. It always
seemed strange to me, all the cry about
wages and the rights of working men,
while those who were the loudest never
show any respect to the rights of working
women, especially the right to anything
for all the work of women who are wives.
Her part is heavy and hard, and she earns
her money all she ever gets, and more
								[N. B.
	What a wife earns in her own family is
not counted to her until after her husband's
death, when a certain share of the property
is secured to her.				ED.
	EX.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Good Health.—The present very warm weather
reminds us thaa it is conducive to good health to
disinfect cellars, drains, sinks, &c., and all places
where vegetable and animal matters are liablet to
remain in a decaying condition; hence we reproduce
the following:

	"Choliride of lead is said to be most powerful,
safe, and economical deodorizer and disinfectant
known. To prepare it for use on a small scale,
for ordinary purposes, take half a drachm of nitrate
of lead and mix it with one pint of hot water; dis-
solve two drachms of common salt in two gallons
of water, and mix the solutions; this forms a
solution of chloride of lead. A cloth wet with
his, and hung up in a room filled with a foetid
atmosphere will sweeten it instantly; and the
solution thrown into a water closet, sink, or drain,
or wherever the sulphite of hydrogen and am-
monium exists, or is generated, will have the same
effect. It is not carbonic acid, but the sulphite
or hydrogen and ammonium which are eliminated
with the breath, and through the pores of the skin
of the living body, that makes people who are
exposed to such an atmosphere so depressed, and
which when highly concerntrated, devolops typhus
poison.

	"Nitrate of lead is in dry crystals, and is sold at
a few cents per pound, which would make severrl
hundred gallons of the solution of chloride of lead."

	We have found it most convenient to weigh out
in small packages a number of the several quanti-
ties of lead and salt for a two gallon solution, and
keep them on hand for use say every few days.
This is a subject worthy the attention of every
person.


Wife," said a man, looking for his boot-
jack, "I have places where I keep my
things, and you ought to know it." "Yes,"
said she; "I ought to know where you
keep your late hours, but I don't."

	Self-government is a natural right, and
the ballot is the best known method
through which to exercise that right, con
sequently those who have not the ballot, do
not possess the best method of self-govern-
ment.


The Duke of Argyl, father of the Mar-
quis of Lorne, with his two daughers, vis-
ited Boston, Newport, and other New
England cities recently. The party were
the guests of distinguished citizens, and
received suitable attentions.

	A few weeks since a young lady was ar-
rested at midnight by a policeman in the
streets of St. Petersburg in the very act of
posting up a revolutionary proclamation.
The young lady goes to Siberia, and the
policeman pockets 100 roubles.

	THE NOMINATION of Hon. Henry W
Blair, of New Hampshire, for United States,
Senator from that State, (equivalent to the
election) will be rejoiced over by all
friends of Woman, and of Temperance,
everywhere. He is a staunch supporter of
woman-suffrage, and succeeds Wadeighn
who opposed it.

	ELIZABETH STUART Phelps says in a
note to a friend: "Be assured that if I am
well enough I shall vote. Of course I be-
lieve in School Suffrage, and earnestly de-
sire to see a full registration."

	JENNIE JUNE says of Miss Anna Dick-
inson's latest work, "The success of Miss
Anna Dickinson's 'Ragged Register,' just
published by the Harpers, has been so in-
stantaneous that she received an order from
them for a novel to follow it as quickly as
possible."


[Column 1]
THE UTAH CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC

WILL re-open for the Fall term Aug. 10th. Classes in
Vocal and Instrumental Music, Harmony, [-]locu-
tion, Musical History wi[-]l be organized at once. A Nor-
mal Course in Vocal and Instrumental Music, and in
Drawing, will be opened for the benefit of teachers in the
public schools and one for the normal students of the
University. Elocution, Harmony and Theory classes
free to pupils studying in other departments. For terms
apply to
					DR. E. B. FERGUSON, Director.
		
TO THE LADIES!

HEALTH Corsets, Shoulder Braces, Skirt Supporters,
Back Braces, and Abdominal Supporters, for sale or
made to order, by P. E. HARPER, First South Street,
nearly opposite Theatre.
	Mrs. ZINA D. YOUNG, agent for this Territory.
	Physicians and Ladies, call and examine.

                       HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
                       VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading huttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. B. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,

	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap, 	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc) 	-	- 35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	- 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED. 
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Specialty study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

"A Word fitly Spoken is like Apples of Gold in Pictures of Silver."

