VOL. 8.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1879.		No. 5.


TO A YOUNG FRIEND.

ON HER BIRTH DAY.

"For my birthday present write me a poem."

At the remembrance of thy name,
What kindly olden memories start!
Here is the gift thou o[-]ce didst claim,
From out the garden of my heart

Few are the pleasures that grow there in
Nor bright nor rare their clusters shine;
The passers smile they ne'er might win,
And time has faded these I twine.

Here's hope, how brightly ence it bloomed,
Illuming every day and hour;
And vanquished every cloud of gloom,
That ever shadowed youth's fair bower.

Here's love, a flower all have known,
Has plenty made its value less
And has it out of fashion grown,
Which e'er should be the fairest, best?

And here's forgiveness; blossom pale,
But little prized and rarely sought;
Amid the shade, along the vale,
It blooms with sweetest fragnance fraught.

And here's remembrance, ivy-like,
Round broken hope's and lives it clings;
And deep its tender rootlets strike,
And wide its living mantle flings.

But for thy maiden hood's fair time,
Too sombre seems the gift I bring;
Like leaves grown sere ere Autumn time
Or sadness stealing as we sing.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
THOUGHTS ON THE POETS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Moore—The Bard of Erin, was equally
famous as a poet, a friend and a man of the
world; his genius, his genial disposition,
and his bewitching manners, made him the
welcome visitor to all the grand drawing-
rooms of the elite of England, of which
London is the focus. He is the author of
"Lallah Rookh," "The Loves of the An-
gels," and "The Vale of Cashmere." His
"Melodies" will alone hand down his name
to posterity. Music and poetry were twin
gifts in Moore;he,himself,set his own pieces
to music, and then sang them in his own
sweet, rich voice! and his social and refined
nature, his polished manners, sparkling wit
and good heart made him truly the petted
child of whatever society he entered. By-
ron and he met in the same charmed
circles as the Castor and Pollux of each as-
sembly—they were indeed the lions of those
London seasons. A sincere friendship
sprang up between them, the commence-
ment of which was a misunderstanding so
severe that a challenge to fight a duel was
sent by Moore, but by a happy accident the
letter did not reach its destination,and they
did not again meet for two years, when an
explanation took place, and they became
cordial friends for life. Byron ever gave
his whole heart, if  he  gave it at all,
and his devotion to Moore knew no cessa-
tion; in his playful moods he used to call
him "An abridgement of all that's delight-
ful in man!" And who has not read his
"Farewell to Tom Moore," as he was leav-
ing his native country; who has not read it?
who has not sung it? for it has been set to
appropriate music, and deserved to be.

[Column 2]

Years after, when Moore visited Byron at
Ravenna,on his leaving,Byron ran up to his
room, and returning, brought down a heavy
package which he placed in Moore's hands,
saying, "Here is a fortune for your little
Tom, I make you my biographer!" It con-
tained his diary, which he had kept from a
child: his letters, unpublished poems, etc.,
and when at the early age of thirty-seven,
he passed off this stage of action, Moore re-
ligiously took up his mission, and sent forth
to the world his "Life of Byron." Much
valuable manuscript was destroyed by the
desire of a council of friends, as he spoke
too much truth. When Byron censured,
he did so understandingly, and he detested
the "Wolf in Sheep's Clothing," and hypo-
crisy in every shape and form; this honest
feeling made some of his poems what is
called bitter, because "truth's a libel" in
such cases. Moore is an honest biographer,
and whenever it was possible he allows By-
ron to speak for himself, and constitutes
his readers judges, as far as they are capa-
ble of being so. And when he delineates,
it is done in the spirit of Christian charity
and admiring appreciation. Their names
are eternally blended in one bright and glo-
rious monogram.
	No poet has been more read and sung
than Moore. There is in his verses the lan-
[---] every heart, and hence there is a
loud response to the Harp of the Poet.
The beautiful episode of "Paradise and the
Peri" is sweet and thrilling, and the moral
is equally so. Late in life, Moore's mind
became feeble and inert. Of course many
were the remedies that were tried by his
adoring friends to resuscitate the brain. At
last it was suggested that some of his own
beautiful melodies should be sweetly sung
in his presence. It was observed he listen-
ed attentively. At last he exclaimed, with
a spark of his old fire, "What is it? it's very
sweet! Surely I've heard it before!"
	We cannot dwell on such a mournful
change to a great, grand mind, but he has
long since rehearsed his beautiful minstrel-
sy in the choirs of the Empyreum, where
such spirits open their eyes upon all its
glories and feel in all its fulness they are
"At Home."
	Burns—"The Ayrshire plowman," as he
is lovingly called by his brotherhood. Burns
was a man and a poet to be proud of, sim-
ply because he was honest, and told the
truth when he did speak, and because he
hated all shams, come in whatever form
they might. Scotland loves her patriot
poet, and England, in her love, is almost
jealous for fear she shall not evince her love
in the same ratio. Eliza Cook sings the
sentiments of the nation in her heart song
of
	"Robby, Robby! child of song,
	The nobly poor, the bravely strong.
		*	*	*	*
	Oh, Robin, Robin! Princes now
	Will speak of him 'who held the plow.' "
	The whole poem is lovely. I can scarce-
ly refrain from copying it,but must pass on.
In imagination, I picture the inspired plow-
man; I grasp his hand, I feel he is a bro-
ther who speaks to us, a creature of flesh
and blood; I note the pride on his brow, the
tear in his eye, the smile on his lip; no effi-

[Column 3]

gy of buried learning is he, but a free, cor-
dial, earnest man! He is a human creature,
only overflowing with the characteristics of
humanity. He conceals not his share of
frailty, nor turns aside from penance. He
takes with equal thanks a sermon or a song;
he loves and worships with the same devo-
tion. It is a blessing that such a soul should
arise in the midst of poverty; he was the
child of nature; the schools may make
scholars, but they cannot make a Burns!
When he erred, it was from an excess of
passion, never from deliberate hypocrisy.
Burns never lost his conscience, or the sin-
cerity or manliness of his character; his
poetry is sentimental and pensive. "Holy
Willie's Prayer" was drawn from life, and
was truth; and in all his writings he spoke
the truth of his soul, and when he wrote:
	"God knows, I'm not the thing I should be.
	Nor am I even the thing I could be.
	But twenty times I rather would be
		An atheist clean,
	Than under gospel colors hid be
		Just for a screen!"
	With all his rusticity, he maintained his
dignity in the polished circles of Edin-
burgh; he felt the sting of poverty, and his
whole nature recoiled from dependence.
Who dare presume to sit in judgment upon
such a being, whose very errors "leaned to
virtue's side," and who writes of himself:
		"By passion driven,
	And yet the light that led astray
		Was light from Heaven!"
	Of the objects of his regard, his "High-
land Mary" seems alone to have inspired
poetical sentiment. Their solemn parting
on the banks of the Ayr, and her early
death all are familiar with; her memory
seemed consecrated in his imagination, and
he has immortalized her image by his
"Exquisite Mary in Heaven."
	Woman was his tutelar deity. If he
wanted to write a poem, he sought a fine
woman for his inspiration. These are his
own expressions, and his spirit was ever
that of true man to woman: tender, respect-
ful, loving! Read his words:
	"Then gently scan your brother man;
	Still gentler, sister woman."
	Who made the heart' 'tis he alone
		Decidedly can try us.
	He knows each chord—its various tone,
		Each spring - its various bias.
	Then at the balance let's be mute,
		We can never can adjust it;
	What's done we partly may compute,
		But know not what's resisted.
	This is an epitome of a righteous judg-
ment; this takes us into the secret cham-
bers,and shuts the door upon the world and
its babbling jargon.
	His "Cotter's Saturday Night," his
"Tam O'Shanter," his "Prayer in the pros-
pect of death," how touchingly beautiful!
because our hearts respond to the chords he
so powerfully strikes. Eliza Cook shall give
the finale to this brief memoir:
	"Though nought beside of hallowed worth
	Marked Scotia's men and Scotia's earth.
	Since Burns has sung, she needs no more
	To spread her fame the wide world o'er.
	Oh Robin, Robin! proudly dear,
	Thy spirit still is with us here;
	And glory's halo round thy head
	Shines as we laud the mighty dead!"


34		WOMAN'S EXPONENT:


R. S. REPORTS.

		SPRING CITY, May 28, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	A report of the first conference held in
this Stake of Zion for the sisters. It was
held at Manti City, on Monday, May 19th.
	We were blessed with the presence of
Sisters Eliza R. Snow and M. I. Horne,
who were making a visit through the coun-
try, holding meetings and organizing Pri-
mary Associations.
	The conference was called to order by
Sister M. A. P. Hyde, President of the
Stake. Exercises, singing, prayer, singing.
	There were present on the stand Presi-
dent Eliza R. Snow, M. I. Horne and M. A.
P. Hyde, with her counselors, Elizabeth
Allred and Anna Larsen; also the presi-
dents of the several Relief Societies of the
Stake; also present President Petersen and
Counselors, with many other brethren.
	The reports of the several societies were
read, which showed that the sisters had
been alive to their duties and energetic in
forwarding the work of God.
	Sister Hyde then expressed her thank-
fulness for having the presence of the sis-
ters from S. L. City, on such an important
occasion.
	Sister Snow then addressed the congre-
gation, principally on home manufacture
and on becoming self-sustaining. Asked
the sisters if they were preparing for Baby-
lon to fall? Told them to take hold of silk
manufacturing, and plant mulberry trees
and prepare to make their own apparel.
	Spoke of having a hospital that could be
controlled by those of our own [---], that
there could be a place where the young girls
could be taught to administer herbs in faith
and become good, efficient nurses and un-
derstand the human system.
	She then organized a Silk Association,
with Rebecca Wareham, President; Mary
Lowery, Sister Wybee, Counselors; Alvira
C. Cox, Secretary; Edith Billings, Treasur-
er; and all the members of the Relief Socie-
ties and Y. L. M. I. Associations as mem-
bers of the Silk Association; also asked that
an agent be appointed in each Relief Socie-
ty for the Silk Association.
	President Petersen then expressed his
gratification with the proceedings of me
Conference and the remarks that had been
made. Asked God to bless Sister Snow and
all the sisters in their labors to build up the
kingdom of God. And all the Saints with
love and union.
	Singing, benediction. Meeting adjourn-
ed until 1 p. m.

	Afternoon Session.—Meeting was called
to order by President M. A. P. Hyde. After
the usual exercises, President Hyde pro-
ceeded to organize the Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tion in a Stake capacity: Helen Armstrong;
President; Christina Willertsen, Matilda
Delean, Counselors; Viola Vancott, Secre-
tary; Sophia Anderson, Treasurer. Sister
Horne then addressed the congregation on
the training of children. Said it was very
necessary for mothers to have the spirit of
God to direct them in the training of their
children, that they might be enabled to
teach them in the spirit of the gospel and
fit them to become celestialized beings.
Told the mothers to teach the children the
principles of the Gospel before they arrived
to years of accountability. A number of
other sisters spoke, all felt highly edified
with the instructions given by the worthy
Sisters Snow and Horne. They were suffi-
cient, if observed and put into practice by
the people to qualify them for an exaltation

[Column 2]
in the Celestial Kingdom of our God, which
is hoped will be our happy lot.
FANNY KOFFORD, Cor. Sec.

BOX ELDER STAKE.

	Fourth Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society was held on Tuesday and Wed-
nesday, June 10th and 11th, in the meeting
house at Brigham City.
	President Harriet Snow presiding: Offi-
cers of the Board present, also President
Oliver Snow, Counselors Elijah Box, Patri-
arch Box and several bishops with counsel-
ors; Mrs. Margaret P. Young, from Salt
Lake City, also several Presidents of Relief
Societies and Y. L. M. I A. of Box Elder
Stake. The Conference opened with sing-
ing and prayer. Minutes of last Conference
were read and accepted. Statistical and
financial reports from each Ward in the
City and the various towns in the County,
were also read, showing their good condi-
tion and prosperity. Verbal reports by the
Presidents of each branch and remarks by
several of the brethren present and Mrs.
Margaret P. Young, occupied the first day.
Tuesday morning's session: The officers
of the Relief Society Stake were upon the
stand, Apostle Lorenzo Snow and other
brethren. After the opening ceremonies,
President Harriet Snow presented the
names of the officers of the Relief Societes
of Box Elder Stake to the people to be
voted upon. Mrs. Harriet Snow was sus-
tained as President of the Relief Society of
the Box Elder Stake, Mrs. Susanna P.
Booth and Mrs. Mary Stark, Counselors;
Mrs. Mary E. Snow, Recording Secretary,
and Mrs. Emilie D. Madson, Corresponding
Secretary.
	The next bnsiness in order was the orga-
nization of a Silk Association of Box Elder
Stake. Mrs. Mary Stark was elected Pres-
ident; Mrs. Susanna P. Booth and Mrs.
Mary E. Snow, Counselors; Mrs. Eugenia
S. Pierce and Miss Lydia M. Snow, Secre-
taries. The remaining time was occupied
by the Y. L. M. I. A.
	The afternoon was devoted to the Presi-
dents of the Primary Associations, after
which, Apostle Lorenzo Snow addressed
the meeting, encouraging and blessing the
sisters in working unitedly together for the
interest of Zion; expressed himself pleased
and astonished with the marked improve-
ment of the sisters in counseling and in-
structing each other. Conference adjourn-
ed for three months. Singing. Benedic-
tion.
	Relief Society reports from December
I0 to June 10th, 1879, of Box Elder Stake:
Statistical and Financial.—Teachers, 93;
members, 657; meetings, 110; average at-
tendance, 421; Woman's Exponent, 72.
Donations received, cash and property.—
Disbursements, cash, $222 20; property,
$14 3 89; to Temple, cash, $42 84; property,
$51 40; public buildings, cash, $174 85;
property, $68 10; home industries, $12 86;
emigration, $6 05; stationery, $9 80; chari-
table, Lamanaites, Etc., $55 41; missionary,
$20 58. Total on hand, cash, $83 37; pro-
perty, $102 60. Wheat, 187 ½ bushels.
	EMILIE D. MADSEN,
				Cor. Sec. of Stake.

TOOELE STAKE.

	The second Quarterly Conference of the
Relief and Young Ladies' Association of
Tooele Stake of Zion was held in the Social
Hall, at Grantsville, on Saturday and Sun-
day, June 14th and 15th, 1879, Mrs. Mary
A. Hunter and Counselors presiding.

[Column 3]
Present on the stand; were Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. Bathsheba
W. Smith, from Salt Lake City; President
F. M. Lyman and Bishops Hunter, Tuttle,
Martin, and Patriarch John Rowberry.
Meeting opened by singing and prayer.
After the minutes of the last Quarterly
Conference were read and accepted, Presi-
dent M. A. Hunter made some opening re-
marks. Miss E. R. Snow then gave a very
interesting address, said she was delighted
to see so many of the brethren present and
was glad to see so many of her sisters; said
that man and woman's interests were one,
and that we were born to labor for the in-
terests of Zion; exhorted all to faithfulness,
and urged mothers to look after the welfare
of their children. Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith loved to mingle with her sisters and
exhorted them to seek earnestly for the
Spirit of God and to store their minds with
knowledge. Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the
condition of the world and the im-
possibility of the women of the world
understanding the women of Utah. She
spoke at some length upon Celestial Mar-
riage and a great many interesting subjects.
President F. M. Lyman endorsed the sen-
timents expressed by the sisters. Meeting
adjourned till 2 o'clock.

	Afternoon Session.—The Presidents of the
Relief Societies of the different Wards gave
verbal reports, showing their Societies were
in good condition, and that all the members
are anxious to do the will of the Lord, and
to be self-sustaining. The Tooele Ward
had started a silk association and also
[-]traw-braiding; had some specimens of bon-
nets which were equal to those imported,
both in the quality, braiding and making
up.
	A Primary Association was organized for
the children at Grantsville, with 113 mem-
bers;  Sister Sarah Hale, President; Sister
Louisa Hale and Mary Post Counselors.
	Statistical.—No. of Wards 6; officers and
members, 406.
	Financial.—In treasury in cash and pro-
perty, $460 13 ½; donated to the Temple,
$11 80; donated to the poor, $112 33; wheat
on hand, 676 bushels and 15 lbs.

		MARY A. HUNTER, President,
		MARY A. HOUSE, Secretary.
				ANN TATE, Cor. Sec.


RECEIPT FOR MAKING TATTLERS.

	Take a handful of the weed called run-
about, the same quantity of the root called
nimble-tongue, a sprig of the herb called
back-bite, either before or after dog days,
a tablespoonful of don’t-you-tell-it, six
drachms of malice, a few of envy, which
can be purchased in any quantity at the shop
of Mrs. Tabitha Teatable and Miss Nancy
Night Walker; stir them well together, and
simmer them for hal[-] an hour over the fire
of discontent, kindled with a little jealousy,
then strain it through the rag of misconcep-
tion, and cork it up in the bottle of malevo-
lence, and hang it upon a skein of street
yarn, shake it occasionally for a few days,
and it will be fit for use. Let a few drops
be taken before walking out, and the subject
will be enabled to speak all mannerof evil, 
and that continually.—Selected.


The St. Louis Globe-Democrat says: We
may pretty safely count on the woman's
vote in the second or third Presidential
canvass. We should not be suprised if it
became a factor in 1884, certainly in 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE GLORIOUS STANDARD OF THE 
WEST.
SONG AND CHORUS

Written expressly for this occasion by
MESSRS. CHAS. W. STAYNER AND JOS. J. DAYNES.

All honor to this memorable day!
Let gratitude inspire
Each sturdy heart with sweet, poetic joy,
And patriotic fire!
"Tis the day that noble band
In this wilderness did land,
To make a home for brethren long oppressed;
They left their worldly gains,
And traveled o’er the plains,
To raise the glorious Standard of the West.

CHOROUS (repeat):
Then give three cheers
For the Old Pioneers!
Though many have p[-]ssed away;
We'll thank each one
For the work he has done 
On this glorious pioneer Day."

All honor to this memorable day!
A time of wondrous power.
That made the desert barrenness of earth
To blossom from that hour.
Soon the meadows did expand,
And as if by magic hand,
The fruits and flowers too these valleys blessed;
The happy Pioneer
With naught but God to fear,
Had raised the glorious Standard of the West.
	CHORUS.
All honor to this memorable day!
Let blessings on them shower.
Who made this country fit for man’s abodc,
By aid of heaven’s power!
For they trusted in their God,
And they kissed the gracious rod
That urged them thus to do their very best;
And now that they are gray.
We’ll celebrate the day,
And cheer the glorious Standard of the West.
	CHORUS.


[For the EXPONENT.
"GETTING ACQUAINTED"

I love the handmaids of the Lord,
The veterans of the cross,
Whose dainty fingers wield the pen
To clear the gold from dross.

I love those little warriors,
So fearless and so fleet,
Who snatch the weapons from the foe,
Then lay them at our feet

I love the Noble Matrons,
Whose daily honrly care.
Is to bring forth to Zion's help
Each jewel rich or rare.

I love to help the helpless,
I'd take them far away
From those who coil around the heart
Then fill it with dismay.

I love each soul that's lovable,
That's fill'd with heavenly light
Whose lives, a daily sacrifice
Are given for the right.

God bless them all, my sisters dear!
	A glorious happy day
Awaits the faithful, clothed in light
	The Saints of Latter Day.

7th, Ward S. L. City June 20th 79.
	A. Q.


﻿[For the EXPONENT.
			TRUTH.

	How careful we should all be to speak the
truth in every instance! There is nothing
more sad, or painful to see, or more to be
pitied in this world than an untruthful
child. And who but parents will be respon-
sible, if they set the example, or add to or
exaggerate anything while telling it before
their children. I have even seen a parent
tell an untruth before his child, and then
whip the child because it would not ac-
knowledge the falsehood to be truth; and
yet he never seemed to think, or realize the
injury he was doing his child, or the exam-
ple he was setting before it. And I verily
believe there are plenty of such things
going on with never a thought given to the
evil seed sewn. How much should we pray
for wisdom to guide us in raising our child-
ren in the paths of good, and be careful of
the example we set before them. Oh! how
bitterly I feel my ignorance, now, when I
realize how much better I might have done
by reading and striving constantly to find
the better way in which to rear my child;
and by never giving way to anger and to
hasty and uncalled-for speeches. I think,
above all things we should teach our little
ones to be truthful and honest, and to do
this we must always be so ourselves; for
truly our sins follow after us to the third
and fourth generation, and perhaps through
all time. We commit great sin in not in-
forming our minds, and not gaining a know-
ledge of the best methods of teaching, and
then by not putting into practice what we
do know.
	There are so many things that could be
said, and so much reformation needed on
this subject, but I feel that if I could succeed
in setting one soul to thinking and striving
to overcome, I would have my hundredfold
reward in thinking of it; for I do desire to
see the children of Zion trained in the way
of the Lord and the principles of truth and
righteousness; and unless we become wise,
mothers, how can we expect to be good
teachers of our children? Then let us never
falsify, even in jest.
	Before closing, I will give yon one or two
illustrations: Two sisters went visiting, the
elder sister taking her child Alice with her.
While Alice was out playing, she went into
a neighbor’s garden and pulled some tur-
nips. The younger sister, going out, saw
her, and when she returned she told her
sister. “I do not believe the child would
do such a thing,” said the mother. “But I
saw her, and called her away,” replied the
younger sister. The mother became very
angry, and when the child came in, said,
“Alice, you did not pull any turnips, did
you?” The child hesitated a moment, then
answered, “No, mother.” A few words of
dispute followed, but the mother persisted,
saying she know Alice did not do so. Thus
she encouraged her child, if not to steal, to
tell an untruth to hide a theft when she had
committed one. Surely the mother did
not realize what she was doing! We will
allow her that much for charity’s sake. 
	Here is another illustration,
Two travelers stopped at our house, one
coming a short time before the other.
When the last one had been in a few mo-
ments, he asked how long it had been since
the first one’s arrival, “only a few moments”
I answered; “I hope he has not missed his
plug of tobacco and box of matches I found
in the wagon track; he must have lost them
or he would have found them in driving
over them,” he said. His mother, being
with him, heard his remark, and said: “I
would not mention it before him, any way,”
Smiling, I asked her: “Is that the way you
teach your son honesty?” She seemed quite
 embarrassed, but replied, “he could claim
 it if it should not be his,” "if he is the
owner, he could easily describe it,” I an-
swered. She claims to be a good woman’
and to have raised her children as nearly
right as she could. I know she has some
very rough, wild boys, whether such
things as the above has any thing to do with
it I leave you, my readers, to judge. with
many good wishes for the prosperity of the
EXPONENT and its Editor.—Gypsy Golden.


REFLECTIONS.

	I believe that every kind’ and charitable
deed or act that Is wrought by the spirit
and influence of divine grace, or through
love and respect to the word of God, the
same will be recognized and approbated of
God In all cases where suffering humanity
requires those acts; whether the supplicant
be called saint or sinner, although I think
the latter has sometimes been vainly substi-
tuted as a foundation for objectionable
causes and excuses for neglect, even in: cir-
cumstances of special need; but this I con-
sider is no model for us who profess to be
the disciples and followers of Jesus Christ.
We do not acquire one system of practice,
precepts and rules through the wicked in.
fluences, where there is no foundation; but
we have the best code of morals, which
teaches us to love our enemies, and I believe
that Gospel charity, whether it be of words
or deeds, being administered in the spirit of
lovingkindness, will, with God’s help, re-
sult in much good; and if the effect does
not immediately appear, the administration
may, after many days, be brought to remem-
brance. But let faith and works be com.
bined in all our acts of kindness, that they
may be approved of God and attended with
divine blessing. Then we shall see the af-
flicted rejoice, and if we labor for righteous-
ness’ sake, our reward is sure. Finally, let
us strive with all diligence and pray ear-
nestly that our hearts become sanctified to
God, pure and holy, that all we do may be
done with an eye to his glory; for by our
works we shall be judged.
	I believe that in this great and last dis-
pensation of the fulness of times, there will
be much required of the people of God,
both to do and to endure, and without the
whole armor of godliness, I think we shall
be found wanting. I feel for one we have
much to do and much to gain before we shall
be able to accomplish altogether a good pur-
pose in this point of view; but by the grace
of God I can say, that I do not feel at all
discouraged for the Gospel. Truth truly
grows brighter and brighter to me, and I
am resolved to press forward towards the
mark of high calling, closely adhering to
my abiding motto—Faith, Hope and Perse-
verance. I believe there is no opposite
power that shall be able to stay our onward
progress unto victory. That we may.gain
an eternal exaltation in the kingdom of our
Father is my ardent hope and prayer.
	Centerville.		S. A. R.


MISCELLANEOUS

	A man's character is like a fence you can-
not strengthen it by whitewash.

	—"George Eliot” has given us one more
work. Its title is, “Impressions of The-
ophrastus" Such.

	The failure of the West of England Bank
is said to have brought financial ruin to two
hundred and eighty maiden ladies.

	The man who swears at his wife if dinner
is five minutes behind time, is a little too
regular in his habits to keep peace in the
family.

	If Adam had been created a boy instead
of a full-grown man, he would have clubbed
all the apples off from that tree before the
serpent had a chance to get through the
fence around the garden.

	Every housekeeper may not know that
if brooms are well dipped in a pail of suds,
after the washing is finished, they will
keep as good as new until they are actually
worn out.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1879.


[Column 1]

PIONEER DAY.

	IT is well known that the 24th of July is the
anniversary of the day on which the Mormon
Pioneers, with the late President Brigham
Young as their leader, arrived in the Valley
of the Great Basin, in the vicinity of Salt
Lake. Every year it has been the custom to
celebrate that day, and probably there is no
other day in all the year which brings to the
hearts of all Latter-day Saints such peculiarly
grateful feelings as this one, from which they
date the freedom and liberty that has charac-
terized their sojourn in this Territory.
	And yet, perhaps, as a people, we have not
been sufficiently grateful to God for his mer-
cies and blessings extended to us, in the efforts
which have been made to build up and beauti-
fy the desert.
	This day should be honored, and it is meet
that all should join to show how truly they
appreciate the blessings they enjoy, through
the arduous toil, labor and endurance of the
brave, lion-hearted men and women who, at
the peril of their lives, sought out this desert
wilderness. The Pioneers should be remem-
bered with honor (the few who remain) for
many have passed away. Of the three women
who accompanied them in this wonderful pil-
grimage, only one is now living, Mrs. Clara
Decker Young, widow of the late President
Brigham Young. The others were Mrs. Ellen
Sanders Kimball, wife of Pres. Heber C. Kim-
ball, and Mrs. Harriet Page Wheeler Young,
wife of Elder Lorenzo D. Young, brother to
the late President Young. The names of
these heroic women should be remembered by
the Latter-day Saints, and the children of this
people taught to cherish their memory as well
as the memory of that noble brotherhood of
fearless men, who, trusting in the arm of Is-
rael's God, traversed an unknown waste, not
with armed forces, ready to defend themselves
against a foe, but a poorly equipped company
of men, trusting in Jehovah to fight their bat-
tles.
	This year the day was celebrated with a
grand Commemorative Entertainment in the
Large Tabernacle in this city, arranged under
the direction of an executive committee, con-
sisting of Messrs. George Goddard, C. W.
Stayner, Joshua Midgley, and John Daynes.
Conductors of music, Profs. C. J. Thomas and
Joseph J. Daynes.
	The celebration commenced with an overture
by the brass band. Prayer by Elder George
Q. Cannon. Then a sacred song by all the
children of the Sunday Schools of Salt Lake
City and vicinity, consisting of nearly 4000
little folks. The singing by the children was
really one of the most beautiful features of the
entertainment, their fresh young voices seemed
to swell in praises, and fall upon the ear of the
listener with sweet melody that was delight-

[Column 2]

fully gratifying. There were many parts of
the entertainment worthy of note,and foremost
among them was the music, on the violin by
Prof. Weihe, and piano accompaniment by
Prof. Daynes, Prof. Weihe was encored and
the music was deserving the cheers and ap-
plause vouchsafed to the young artist, who has
recently returned from Germany. Miss Sarah
Olsen and Miss Anna Mackey with their
charming rich voices, added greatly to the
musical entertainment. It was the first ap-
pearance of Zion's Musical Society in public,
and it formed one of the greatest attractions of
the day; the glee song by them "Oh, the
flowery month of June," was quite inspiring.
Dr. E. B. Ferguson's Normal Class consisting
of about a dozen young ladies in rendering
"Duet Obligato, with chorus," did remarkably
well, and reflected great credit upon the pro-
ficiency of their teacher who has only been
training them six weeks. The grand com-
memorative song, "The Glorious Standard of
the West," by C. W. Stayner, which we pub-
lish in full on the third page, was written ex-
pressly for the occasion; and we congratulate
Bro. Stayner on having succeeded so well in
touching the hearts of the people; it was well
rendered by Bro. Wm. H. Foster, who has long
been a favorite singer among our people. Prof.
J. J. Daynes' grand solo on the piano, in his
own original and sprightly style was admira-
ble and his rendition of "Il Trovatore" was
wonderful. Many who attended the Jubilee
were unable to hear the finest parts of the per-
formance, as the building itself is better suited
to a great number of voices or a heavy swell of
music. Pres. J. D. T. McAllister, from St.
George, who was for many years the favorite
singer in all public assemblies in this city,
touched the feelings of all tenderly by choos-
ing an expressive song, "O, ye mountains
high," which never fails to produce inspiring
emotion in the souls of the Latter-day Saints,
for it comes home to every heart. Pres. An-
gus M. Cannon pronounced the benediction.
	Much praise is due to the committee of ar-
rangements, and also to the singers, musicians
and all who contributed their share to the gen-
eral enjoyment. The entertainment passed off
pleasantly and peacefully, and gave perfect
satisfaction.
	We trust this people will never cease to cele-
brate the twenty-fourth, and that the children
now growing up in Zion will remember to do
the same. For our own part we would like, on
another anniversary of this memorable day, to
see all the Pioneers assembled where the audi-
ence may distinguish them. Honor to the
grand old heroes of '47.	E. B. Wells


ASSASSINATION OF A YOUNG
MISSIONARY.

	A TELEGRAM was received in this city on
Monday, July 21, stating that Elder Joseph
Standing had been shot by a mob of ten or
twelve men on that day near Varnelles, 25 miles
from Chattanooga, Catoosa Co., in the State of
Georgia. Elder Rudger Clawson, another
young missionary, was with Bro. Standing,
but escaped unharmed. Bro. Standing was a
very exemplary young man, and gave great
promise of usefulness; was about twenty-four
years of age. His parents, brothers and sisters
reside at Hampton’s, near Bear River bridge.
They are very worthy people, and will deeply
mourn the loss of a son so worthy their loye
and confidence; but he has died a martyr’s
death, and earned the crown laid up for those
who suffer death for Christ’s sake. He has
died with the full armor of the Gospel upon


him, and gone to join the innumerable compa-
ny, who are crying from under the altar,
“How long, O Lord, how long?" For him we
may drop a few tears of love, sympathizing with
his bereaved parents and family, but we need
not mourn, for he has won the victory, while
those who remain know not what the end may
be. Preparations are being made to make his
funeral one of public interest, and many expres-
sions of sympathy from his fiiends have been
published in the dally papers.
	The Presidency of the Stake have notified the
people that the funeral will take place in the
Large Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, on Sunday,
August 3d, 1879, commencing at 10 o’clock a.m.
The various orders of the Priesthood have been
assigned seats in regular order. The Seventies
in the southeast corner ot the body of the Ha[-]il.
The High Priests in the north-east corner of
the body of the Hall. The Elders on the south
side, directly behind the Seventies. The Lesser
Priesthood on the north side, directly behind
the High Priests. Other societies and organ-
izations will form directly in the rear of the
Priesthood. All others may be seated in any
part of the building not occupied. Arrange-
ments have been made with all the railroad
lines running into Salt Lake City, to bring
and return those desirous of attending the
funeral at half price.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	JULY number of the popular journal "Wo-
man's Words," just received. It contains a
sketch of the life and career of Miss Emma Ab-
bott, the young Prima Donna, and a portrait of
this lady adorns the first page. The pen sketch
is by Grace Greenwood.
	WE have received, from the editor, a copy
of "Woman at Work," published by Mrs. E.
T. Housh, in Louisville, Kentucky. It is an
interesting monthly journal of sixteen pages,
on tinted paper, and is devoted to mental,
moral and physical culture, self-helpfulness
and home adornment, and to the interests of
the Knights and Ladles of Honor.
	DR. CAROLINE P. WINSLOW and husband,
of Washington, D. C., recently paid a short
visit to this city. Dr. Winslow is a lady of
fine culture and superior attainments. In ad-
dition to her professional duties as a physician
and household cares, she is also editor of "The
Alpha," a monthly journal published by the
Moral Educational Society in Washington. Its
mottoes are "Human Rights before all Laws
and Constitutions." "Gerrit Smith." "The
Divine Right of every Child to be well Born."
	WE have learned by letter from "Sister
Eliza" that herself and the party of ladles who
accompanied her arrived safely, in good health
and excellent spirite, at Soda Springs, on the
23d of July, where they will probably remain
a few days. Some of the ladies being in deli-
cate health, they hope to recuperate, by drink
ing soda water and inhaling the pure mountain
air. The sisters have visited all the settle-
ments in Bear Lake Stake where there are or-
ganizations of of women, excepting Randolph
and Woodruff: have attended in all thirty-
four meetings, including general, Relief and
Primary. In returning home "Sister Eliza"
intends visiting Clifton, Gentile Valley and
Oxford, and will perhaps spend a little time at
Logan.
	THE Ladies' General Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the FourteenthWard Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, July 10th, was a very interesting
one; Counselor Phebe Woodruff presiding
Remarks were made by Sisters Phebe Wood-


[Column 1]ruf[-], Bathsbeba W. Smith, Elizabeth Howard,
E. B. Wells, H. T. King, Ellen Bishop, Julia
Howe, E. S. Barney and E. S. Taylor. These
sisters dwelt much upon the subject of educa-
tion, and woman's work as an educator, and
urged the sisters to use their utmost influence
towards stimulatinf and inspiring their friends
to become public spirited and mutually helpful
in all matters of general interest, availing
themselves of all the opportunities within
their reach, and especially the ballot, which
right they enjoyed and should exercise. These
meetings have been a source of general in-
struction to the sisters—a blessing untold.
Here is an opportunity for women to hear and
speak on all matters that come within wo-
man’s range of thought and reasoning. Here
many women are learning to give expression
to their best thoughts intelligently.
	THE Children's Pinafore: The performance
of H. M. S. Pinafore, in miniature, in this
city, has been a great attraction recently. The
little folks who take part are all quite young,
the oldest being only fi[-]teen, and most of them
much younger. Miss Maggie Freeze who
plays the part of Josephine, has displayed ex-
traordinary talent in rendering it be perfectly.
Her manner is quaint and original, which
makes it all the more charming. The Misses
Felt do excellently well in their respective
characters of Little Buttercup and Cousin
Hebe. The Admiral, “his sisters, his cousins
and his aunts,” all perform wonderfully. Sir
Joseph’s acting was indeed artistic; the young
man showed considerable dramatic talent. The
singing, dancing and acting all deserve great
praise, and the Salt Lake audiences are certain-
ly indebted to the children and their instruc-
tors for a very pleasant pastime in the shape of
a dramatic and musical entertainment. There
are certainly some among them who ought to
have the best musical education possible.
Heber Goddard and Master Kirkman have
very fine voices, indeed they are remarkably
so. 
	KEY TO THE UNIVERSE: We have received
(politeness of Mr. Marian R. Pratt) Elder Or-
son Pratt's new scientific work entitled “Key
to the Universe, a New Theory of Mechanism:
founded first upon constant orbital propulsion,
arising from this velocity of gravity, and its
constant aberrations, and second upon a re-
sisting ethereal medium of variable density.”
Brother Pratt has made the sciences of philos-
ophy and astronomy the subject of years of
close and diligent investigation, devoting
much time, means and intense thonght to it in
hours when others slept, and has brought forth
new light upon these abstruse studies, which
should be joyfully welcomed by the world;
but these are things so little unders[-]ood that it
is not expected the work would be sought after
by the masses, but intelligent people should
view it in the light of new revelation concern-
ing the principles with which they desire to
acquaint themselves, in order to come to a
fulness of knowledge of things in the heavens
and in the earth. These will no doubt be re-
vealed through human agencies, quickened by
the Spirit of God, with which Bro. Pratt has
no doubt been blessed lu making his successful
and wonderful researches' in the boundless
land of science. The Saints intend their chil-
dren to excel in learning as well as all other
things, and in view of the progress of the
times should procure this new and excellent
work for their children if not for themselves.
Bro. Pratt is one of the oldest members of this
church and has labored earnestly and arduous-
ly to establish th[-]s kingdom, and should on
this account receive the liberal patronage of

[Column 2]
the Saints to assist him in publishing for the
benefit and enlightenment of others, books
containing the knowledge he has acquired by 
patient industry and toll by day and by night


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		37


COUNTY CONVENTION.

	ON Monday evening, July 21, primary meet-
ings were held in the several precincts, and
delegates appointed to the County Convention
on the 26th inst. Among the delegates were
several ladies. The primaries were all quietly
conducted in a business-like manner.
	On Saturday, at 11 o'clock a.m., the County
Convention met pursuant to call in the City
Hall. Delegates were present from almost ev-
ery district. Among the delegates were a few
ladies, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. Rebecca Riter,
Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, Mrs. Diana Reid, Mrs.
Anna Cross, Mrs. Louisa J. Ball. There were
some lady alternates who were admitted as
members of the Convention. Prof. T. B.
Lewis was elected temporary chairman and
W. L. Binder secretary. Committee on cre-
dentials, Messrs. J. R. Winder, George Rom-
ney, David O. Calder, Archibald Gardner, and
Joseph S. Rawlins. After the Committee had
retired the chairman pro tem. made some sug-
gestive remarks, in regard to the importance
of electing good men, full of integrity, to offi-
ces among the people. The committee on cre-
dentials, returning, made a report which was
promptly adopted.
	The Convention was then permanently or-
ganized by electing Bishop John Henry Smith
chairman, Archibald Gardner and Adam
Spiers vice-presidents, T. E. Taylor and W. L.
Binder secretaries, Bishop Crane chaplain and
Wm. Naylor sergeant-at-arms.
	A motion was made and accepted that the
chairman appoint a committee on nominations;
the following persons were then appointed:
Davi[-] O. Calder, Frank Armstrong, Henry
Dinwoodey, William Asper, Adam Spiers, Al-
exander Hill, Samuel Bennion, Joseph S.
Rawlins, Henry Day, Elizebeth Howard, Alma
L. Smith. The committee retired and by in-
vitation a few brief speaches were made.
The committee returned and reported nom-
inations, which were accepted, and the names
taken separately and voted upon; the nom-
inations were all sust[-]ined.
	Commissioners to Locate University Lands
—	L. S. Hills, John Rowberry, John Van Cott.
	Auditor of Public Accounts—Nephi W.
Clayton.
	Territorial Superintendent of District Schools
—	John Taylor.
	Councilors to the Legislative Assembly—
Joseph F. Smith, D. H. Wells, W. W. Cluff,
John T. Caine.
	Representative to the Legislature—John
Jaques.
	Selectman—E. M. Weiler.
	County Superintendent of District Schools—
T. B. Lewis.
	It was decided that the local officers chosen
to fill vacancies in the various precincts re-
ceive the endorsement of the Convention.
	Just prior to adjournment, the following per-
sons were sustained by the Convention as the
County Central Committee: John Sharp,
David O. Calder, Angus M. Cannon, John R.
Winder, Feramoiz Little, John T. Caine, The-
odore McKean, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. S. M.
Kimball, Mrs. M. I. Horne, John F. Snedaker,
Joseph S. Rawlins, I. M. Stewart, Samuel
Bennion, T. E. Taylor.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to the chair-
man and officers of the Convention, and after
benediction by the chaplain, the Convention
adjourned sine die.


IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, at Clarkston, Cache Co., U.T., on the
17th of July, 1879, of cold and inflammation of
the lungs, Levisa Eveline, youngest daughter of
Edmund and Susan Eveline Greene Homer.
She was born the 22d of July, 1876, at Spring-
dale, Kane Co., Utah.
	Oh! fair, sweet flower of southern birth,
	Too delicate and frail for earth,
	Though lost a moment to our sight,
	We'll find thee beauteous till, and bright.
	Clothed in immortal life and light.
		LULA.
	DIED, at Vernon, Tooele Co., June 8th,
in childbirth, Ada Augusta Dawson Rendall,
wife of Wm. Durant, deeply regretted.
	Sister Ada was ever ready to help in teach-
ing the little ones, making the Sunday School
interesting; she was Secretary of the Y. L. M.
I. A. at Fairfield, where she formerly resided;
was ordained Secretary of the Relief Society
here, and always ready to do good—her great-
est pleasure seeming to be in training the
young. Her purity of thought and language
were worthy of imitation. Beloved and re-
spected she has gone to her rest, leaving a
husband and three little boys (the youngest
but four hours old), and many friends to mourn
her loss.
	She was born at St. Johns, Newfoundland,
March 9th, 1845.
	PROVO, June 22d, 1879.
MRS. WELLS:
	Dear Sister:—I thought I would send you a
few lines concerning Sister Charlotte Hume
Clive, recently deceased, as I have been
acquainted with her personally ever since the
year 1851, and if she had been my own sister
in the flesh I could not have thought more of
her. She came to Salt Lake City in the year
1852, and shortly after her husband took an-
other wife. She was ever willing to bear her
part under all circumstances that she had to
pass through, and honored the principle of
plural marriage. She was a kind mother and
an affectionate wife. She has left a son and a
large circle of friends to mourn her loss.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
		A. M. JONES.


CORRESPONDENCE.

			HOBART TOWN, May 5th, 1879.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister:—Your letter, dated March 1st,
1879, came duly to hand. I find the EPPONENT
both very interesting and instructive, and,
placed as we are in this far off land, anything
coming from Zion has a double interest; for
they seem like words of great encouragement
from dear friends, for though many miles of
sea divide us, still that unexplainable some-
thing forms the bond of love, and I feel
strangely united to the Saints of Zion; such a
different bond of love and sympathy to any
that can be found anywhere else in this world;
and greatly do I long to gather with the Saints,
but when I shall be able to get away from here
I cannot tell. I thank our Heavenly Father
that my husband does not offer any objections
to my following up the word of God so far as
I can without leaving here. There are many
unpropitious circumstances. We've lived here
a great number of years, and have been blessed
in temporal things; only having one daughter,
and she being married and having a young
family, it seems but natural that a very strong
tie is thus formed which keeps us from being
inclined to sell off and bid farewell to Tasma-
nia; though for my own part, much as I love
my child and grand-children, still I feel that I
could leave all for the sake of the blessings
which are promised to those who obey the
Gospel; but as the Lord does not see fit to re-


lease me yet from Babylon, I try to serve Him
as best I can here and wait as patiently as pos-
sible for His time, for we know that He has
said that He will release those who trust in
Him.
	It was a source of great comfort to the few
Saints here to have a visit from Brother F. J.
May. You doubtless know that there are only
three Saints here, one Elder and two sisters,
including myself, and as we all belong to this
place you can easily judge how pleased we
were to have the society and counsel of our
brother; he stayed with us about two months,
and made our house his home; he did not
preach in the town but took several trips into
the country, [-]ut without any apparent success;
he took one trip right through the Island, on
foot, preaching at all the towns on his way; he
did not meet with much kindness; in most
places they treated him with indifference, but
in Lancastor, the city at the north of the
Island, they gave him some rather rough
treatment, some striking him and the mob be-
ing about to treat him to a ducking in the
river; he claimed police protection and had to
keep indoors until leaving there, which he did
pretty soon.
	The folks in the Colony generally do not
seem to take much interest in the Gospel. in
fact the population generally are adverse and
put every possible obstacle in the way; we few
here have to keep quiet or we should have any-
thing but a pleasant time of it. It gives me
great pleasure to mark the spread of the Gospel
in other places, and judging by the signs of the
times we are truly in the last days.
	Should you think it not too much trouble to
write me I should only be too glad to receive as
many letters as you can write, and give you as
much information as possible about this place.
	May God bless and prosper you in your ef-
forts, and preserve all His Saints, is the prayer
of your sister in the Gospel.
						MARIA GREEN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	ARINGDON HOUSE, Evington Road,
					Leicester, England.
							July 8, 1879.
	MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	My dear sister—It is with much pleasure
that I sit down with the attempt to fulfill my
promise. Hoping you have not come to the
conclusion that I had forgotten. I have writ-
ten several letters to my family, which of course
you would s[-]y was natural, but I have really
found very little time for writing, one letter
per week seeming to be as much as I could
manage. Doubtless you would learn from my
good husband with regard to my prosperious
journey safe arrival, kind reception, etc.
My brother has a beautiful home and lovely
surroundings, with every comfort, but I would
not exchange for my dear home in Utah.
With all the kindness of my brother and his
family, there is somthing wanting, that is only
to be found in the society of the Saints of God.
of which there are but few in Leicester, and
those few most of them are intending to emi-
grate this Fall. It was quite a little time before
my Son found out that there was a meeting
any where, and then we found about six or
[-]even who had met on the Sunday afternoon
to partake of the Sacrament and to bear there
testimony. This was in a small house occupide
by Brother Robrrson. They did not have any
Singing because it annoyed their neighbors.
Thus you will conceive how I miss our happy
meetings at home. I have visited one Sister and
have promised to go with Sister Roberson to
visit another to morrow. My associations are
mostly with those, who are not of our faith
consequently my greatest comfort is in reading

[Column 2]
our works, and in communing with my Father
in heaven, for Oh. How little do the people of
the world care about the true Gospel. If you
lend them books few care to read, or investigate
the principles of our faith, for themselves.
Truly it is, as has been said that darkness
covers the earth, and gross darkness the minds
of the people, and if any inquires are made it
is with regard to polygamy which some of my
old friends think is very immodest and say they
should have thought I was the last one to have
believed and practised such immorality. Yet
from what I can gather my uative place is full
of corruption and immorality, and happy mar-
riages are the exception. I called upon a lady
the other day, who was an acquaintance of
mine in my girl-hood, she had been abroad a
number of years, her only Son lives with her
in an elegant home he is about forty years of
age. I asked her why he did not get married
she replied that young men feared to marry,
so few young ladies were domesticated, and
were so extravagant in dress, that men were
afraid to venture the expense of a wife. She
also acknowledged to me that ladies, with
splendidly furnished homes, did not keep any
company on acount of jealousies that arose
through the too great intimacy with the op-
posite sex. I said I considered Polygamy was
far preferable. I need not tell you that Poly-
gamy as they term it is the only subject they
care to inquire about. And the question
generally asked is "Has your husband another
wife"? Which I invariably answered in the
affirmative, which they conclude is very wrong
but I contend that it is not only a command of
the Almighty but is really much better than
the corrupt state of society in the world, which
a lady on the cars while traveling through the
States admitted. She told me of many horrible
instances of infanticide, and procuring abortion
that she was personaly acquainted with, having
been a nurse; her accounts made me shudder
surely their cup of iniquity is fast filling up.
	I met with several intelligent ladies while
traveling on the cars, and some very agreeable
ones on the vessel and quite a number of
divines of different denominations. We had
one service on the Sunday when the Captain
read the Church of England Service, and one
of the Ministers preached on the forgiveness of
sins, but did not bring in baptism for the re-
mission of sins. This same gentleman, came
in contact with David Dunbar and several of
the young missionaries David corner[-]d him so
closely bringing Scripture to prove the cor-
rectness of his views that he became quite
wrathy and left them in disgust. You would
learn from Mr. G. what a poor sailor I am be-
ing sick, most of the way, but had every at-
tention, from the stewardess who was very
kind. The Wisconsin is a nice vessel and I
would like to return with her: never heard the
Captain speak an angry word. We had a very
favorable voyage, much better than the Nevada
the one your son in law (Mr. Sears) sailed in
Joseph met with him at Birmingham and slept
in the same room with him. My son is labor-
ing in the Sheffield Conference. I received a
letter from him a few days since in which he
speaks of the destitution of the people there.
The few Saints there, are poor but very kind
hearted. It is so hard to get any one to come
to hear them in doors, that they have recourse
to out door preaching generally which he says
was rather rough on him at first, but is getting
used to it, and realizes that the Lord is with
him. The experiences of most of the Elders is,
I think, that it is like the gathering of grapes
when the vintage is over. Few care for the
Truth being lovers of pleasure, moor than lov-
ers of God. Leicester is a flourishing town, many

[Column 3]
people I formerly knew in middling circum-
stances, have become very wealthy and have
their country villas. I have attended Christ
Church once; a Church I attended regularly
before I was marri[-]d aud once enjoyed the
ceremony appears now cold meaningless
formality and there was nothing to the sermon
The Minister was a converted Jew.
	Mr. Talmage is expected in Leicester but I
do not know whether I shall go to hear him,
the charges of admission are high. It is quite
a money-making affair. Well my dear sister I
am not in love with my native town nor with
the climate it has rained more or less every day
since I arrived with very few exceptionsand so
cold that I often put on a shawl in the house.
On the fourth of July I felt like sitting by the
fire all day. Yesterday was about the finest
day we have had, to day a thunderstorm dull
and gloomy most of the day hence my op-
portunity for writing. Next week I expect to
go to Manchester I should have gone to London
before this had the weather been more settled.
Give my kind love to my dear Sisters Grant,
Smith & Wells, also Sister Atwood, in fact to
all my good sisters and tell them I know I
have had their faith and prayers, and they
have had mine, and long for the time to come
when I hope to have the privilege of meeting
with them again as we have been wont to do.
I some-times feel a wanderer from home, kindly
love to Sister Whitney, and love to all who
may inquire after me. Thanks for the Expo-
nent. Shall be pleased to recive a few lines.
Give my love to Sister Grant and tell her I
will try and write to her next. Praying we
may all meet again soon I remain yours most
affectionately.
						E. H. Goddard.


APPEAL

		"Whatever link you strike from nature's chain,
		Tenth or ten-thousandth, breaks alike the chain."
	The Forty-sixth Congress, now assembled,
contains an unusually large proportion of
new representatives, fresh from the people,
ready for the discussion of new issues, and
already manifesting a cliivalric spirit to-
ward the consideration of woman’s claim as
a citizen to one-half of this republic, with
all its rights, principles, and immunities.
	On Tuesday, April 29, the following res-
olution was submitted to the Committee on
Rules of the United States House of rep-
resentatives:
	Resolved, That a select committee of, nine
members be appointed by the Speaker, to
be called a committee on the Rights of
Women Citizens, whose duty it shall be to
consider and report upon all petitions,
memorials, resolutions and bills that may
be presented in the House relating to the
rights of women citizens.
	Admitting the justice of a fair consider-
ation of a question involving every human
right of one-half of the population of this
country, a majority of this most important
committee of the House—Alex. H. Stephens
of Georgia, James A Garfield of Ohio,
Wm. P. Frye of Maine,—immediately de-
clared themselves in favor of the appoint-
ment of said committee, and Speaker Ran-
dall, Chairman of the Cmmittee, ordered it
reported to the House, where it is now
pending.
	A similar resolution will be intorduced
in the Senate, before the adjournment of
the special session.
	There is now a clearer perception of the
magnitude of the question, and the need of
its early and earnest consideration, than at
any time during the past thirty years of


[Column 1]

argument, heroic struggle and sacrifice on
the altar of woman's freedom.
	THE IMMENSE LABORS OF WOMEN
for their own enfranchisement during the
Forty-fifth Congress are shown upon the
pages of the Congressional Record, and it
is evident that the new Congress look for a
still larger, more determined and effective
demonstration from the women who know
their rights, and knowing dare maintain.
	The illogical, contradictory and evasive
adverse report of the United States Senate
Committee on Privileges and Elections.
showing that wemen are, "inexperienced
in political affairs" (as every man is when
he casts his first vote); that "they are quite
generally dependent on men" (whom they
endowed with life and bronght safely up
through the scarlet fever, measles whoop-
ing cough and cutting their thirty-two
teeth); that "they cannot fight" (though
they furnish all the armies of the earth
with their beloved sons who go from their
arms to be shot to death with bullets); that
woman, "if allowed to vote, would proceed
to impair or destroy the marriage relation"
(to which chaste, modest man has only
been able to hold her hitherto by the strong
arm of the law) this Majority Report, rep-
resenting the convictions of six United
States Senators on the woman question, to-
gether with the Minority Report of the
same committee recognizing the right of
woman to self-government and the duty of
Congress to aid her in securing the exercise
of this right, are also on record in Congress,
inviting intelligent men in both Houses to
a fuller discussion of human rights.
	The tie vote on this question in the House
Judiciary Committee of the last Congress
also indicates to the present Congress the
need of research and debate.
	The constitutional amendment asked for,
provides national protection for the rights
of women citizens.
	The history of legislation in Congress for
a century is a history of national legislation
upon the rights of men, and all of the great
political parties have continuously demand-
ed national protection for the rights they
each specifically held as most sacred. The
Missouri Compromise of 1820, its repeal in
1854, and the Fugitive Slave act of 1850,
form a history of national legislation de-
manded and secured by the slaveholders to
establish their rights to property in man,
and their right to take such property, hold
it or recover it anywhere under the national
flag.
	This struggle led to the formation of the
Republican party. And since that time
the rights of man, and the need of national
legislation to protect them, have entered
more and more intensely in every contest
between the two great political parties.
The thirteenth amendment of 1865, abol-
ishing slavery, the fourteenth amendment
of 1867, defining citizenship and imposing
penalties for the violation of the rights of
citizens, the fifteenth amendment expressly
protecting the United States citizen in his
chief right—the right to vote—are all mile-
stones on the way to mark the conflict of
the rights of property in man, and the
rights of man as man.
	DURING ALL THESE YEARS
of heroic struggle for humanity, man's
belief in his own divine right to property
in woman has generally been serene, scarce-
ly moved by a ripple of self-reproach or
remorse. That man was made to glorify
God, woman to glorify man, has been his
theoretical and Practical creed.
	From the very birth of the nation women

[Column 2]

of intelligence, culture and philanthropy,
women like Abigail Adams, Margaret Ful-
ler, Lucretia Mott, whose very names men
say, are an inspiartion to them, have asked
the nation to consider their rights as citizens.
	These never-ceasing demands have edu-
cated the people, have secured larger op-
portunities for woman in education, labor,
wages and social life, more humane legis-
lation upon her civil rights as a wife,
mother and widow, and an increasing
respect for the main question, the right
which includes all other rights, her right to
the ballot.
	The 40,000 votes for woman suffrage in
Michigan, (cast of course by men only), the
9,070 votes in Kansas, the 6,666 votes In
Colorado, the large votes in many State
Legislatures, the right to vote on school
questions already granted to women in
Kansas, New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Minnesota,Colorado, California, Oregon, the
recent passage in the Legislature of Min-
nesota of a resolution asking Congress to
submit a sixteenth amendment providing
for woman suffrage, the general suffrage
already secured to women in Wyoming and
Utah,—these and countless other advance
tests throughout the country have de-
veloped the fact that the most worthy and
intelligent among men are in favor of equal
rights for women, and that ignorance and
vice, and notably the liquor interest, are
the most determined obstacles in the way
of woman's enfranchisement.
	The discussion in Congress of the bill to
admit women to practice before the Su-
preme Court of the United States, and its
passage by overwhelming majorities in both
Houses, have led many to the conclusion
that if a woman may plead a case involving
the rights of men and women before the
highest judicial body in the land, it is an
absurdity and an anachronism to deny her
the right to vote on the closing of a dram-
shop, or the opening of a town pump.
	THE REPEATED DECISION
of the supreme Court upon the constitu-
tional rights of citizens, however unsound
and inconsistent on other points, and how-
ever contradictory in argument, all agree
in the one inflexible conclusion, the denial
of woman's right to vote under the Consti-
tution as it is.
	Therefore the friends of woman suffrage
and the woman suffrage organizations
throughont the country are unanimous in
the present demand for an amendment to
the National Constitution expressly declar-
ing woman's
	RIGHTS TO VOTE AS A CITIZEN OF THE 
		UNITED STATES.
	Friends, who receive this appeal and who
realize your own duty and responsibility in
securing this reform, which includes all
reforms, begin to work ot once.
	Read instructions to workers in tract No.
2 and see to it that your town, county and
State are recognized in Congress as alive
concerning the rights of women.
	Address a strong but brief letter to your
own Senator and Representative in Con-
gress, calling his attention to the following
points:
	First.—The vast expenditure of time,
public treasure and lives in securing the
rights of men.
	Second.—The injustice in enjoying and
insecurity in retaining these rights while
one half the population of the country,
wives, mothers and daughters of men, are
classed with lunatics, paupers, criminals,
idiots and Chinese before the law.
	Third.—The increasing demand for equal

[Column 3]

rights for women in your section, and the
substantial advances made in your State in
this direction.
	Fourth.—The large number of leading
minds of the age now avowed advocates of
woman suffrage, not only as a natural right,
but as a vital need of the nation.
	Fifth.—Urge him as a repersentative of
your State and section to lead, and not to
follow the masses in doing justice to the
women of this republic.
	Sixth.—Suggest that he who forgets wo-
man in this her day of struggle for freedom
may himself be forgotten by her when
10,000,000 of women citizens, with the bal-
lot in their hands, choose their own rulers.
	Friends, workers bear constantly in mind
that every line you write, every word you
utter, every dollar you contribute to ad-
vance woman suffrage is helping to uplift a
continent to a plane of justice, purity and
freedom.
	SARA ANDREWS SPENCER,
		Cor. Sec. Nat. Wom. Suf  Asso.
	ELIZABEH CADY STANTON,
		President,
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
		Vice President.
	MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,
		Ch. Ex. Committee.
—Ballot-Box.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		39


﻿THE HOME OF SHAKESPEARE.

BY GEORGE H. WHITEMORE.
	In these passing days, the footsteps of
many and the thought of multitudes more
are turned to beautiful Stratford-on-Avon
by the special commemoration there of the
season alike of Shakespeare's birth and
death. The monumental inscription in
Stratford church places the latter event on
April 23, 1616. The register of his christn-
ing make it not improbable that he was born,
as traditiosn says upon the very same day of
the year 1564. It is a striking circumstance,
too, that the same mortuary date, April 23,
1616, belongs to Cervantes, who wrote the
most popular book in all secular literature
Don Quixote, and to Shakespeare, the
author of the greatest works of human
genius. To suppose, however, that the
Englishman and Spaniard, the two best en-
titled, after the sacred writers, to be called
the whole world's men died upon the same
day, is, according to Mr. Ticknor, in his
History of Spanish Literature, a mistake,
the calendar not having then been altered
in England, which makes a difference of
ten days.
	The Shakespeare Memorial Building, to
be dedicated with dramatic and other exer-
cises during the ten days of this celebration,
combines a theatre, library and art-gallery.
Though in many respects a fitting recogni-
tion, if worthily executed, yet we are not
sorry to have visited Stratford before it was
erected, when the stranger looked about
him and beheld in the place itself, to some
extent, the natural and contemporaneous
monument of the mighty dead. It was to
be at home that Shakespeare returned here,
away from the London of his player's life.
It may seem ridiculous to ascribe to him
Artemus Ward's aspiration, in the character
of a showman, to settle down, be respectable,
and go to church in good style, like one's
neighbors; and yet, perhaps. this would not
much travesty the sentiment ofShakespeare's
retirement to Stratford. It is in general
desirable to put space between the place
and associations of business and of home, and
often it is the dream of life to effect a full
and final severance from the one, and to


[Column 1]retreat to the other. Thus our actor and
author made periodical visits to his native
town, and had bought its principal house
some fifteen years before quitting the me-
tropolis. Heaven help the man who lacks
a home in which to embody his earthly
ideals if he have success in life, or as the
amiable sanctuary from disaster in it! Shake-
speare came back to Stratford about 1611,
some years before he was fifty, with the
means of living at ease and repairing visibly
the decayed fortunes of the family. Must
he not have desired to sink the shop by
leaving behind the theatre, which was for
him the shop? For answer, it may be re-
membered that he wrote in his sonnets: -

"Alas, 'tis true, I have gone here and there,
And made myself a motley to the view.
⋅ ⋅ ⋅ ⋅ ⋅ ⋅
O for my sake do you with fortune chide,
The guilty goddess of my harmful deeds,
That did not better for my life provide,
Than public means, which public manners breeds.
Thence comes it that my name receives a brand,
And almost thence my nature is subdued
To what it works in, like the dyer's hand;
Pity me then, and wish I were renewed."

	We would bring no railing accusation
against the "player-folk," though, in the
light of the sonnets, would Shakespeare
more likely have joined, on the question of
that life, its clerical and other eulogists, or
the Macreadys, Booths, and Mrs. Kemble,
with her account of her own loathing for it,
and of the ghastly vacuity of her aunt's
last days. that queen of the stage, Mrs. Sid-
dons? We know it is claimed there is no
sodality more ready to succor its needy
members, and we may readily believe that
the gentle, worthy and beloved Shakespeare,
as men were wont to call him, was a pretty
general favorite, none the less that he ap-
pears to have been capable of taking care of
himself, without asking favors, and not
above acting inferior parts. We know, too,
that the lines about to be quoted were
written for no one class or calling, as doubt-
less no one has a monopoly of the rivalries,
disappointments, and ungenerous prattices
which they describe; but, perhaps, the com-
mon judgment would little as any exempt
from their scope the professors of the his-
trionic art:—

"You run the race, the battle fight,
	And, eager, seize at last the prize;
The nectar in its goblet bright
	Is yours to drain 'neath beauty's eyes.
Yet are these honors out of date,
	They would not come when they were bid:
The longed-for draught is all too late—
	'Surgit amari aliquid.'

Or, haply, in the cruel strife
	You foully thrust a brother down,
And with his broken heart, or life,
	Purchased your bauble of a crown.
Wear it; but of remorsful thought
	In vain you struggle to be rid.
The triumph is too dearly bought—
	'Surgit amari aliquid.' "

	Why, then, import the theatre, a monu-
ment of so much that is sad and unworthy
in humanity, both simulated and real, in
many of the characters acted, and many of
the players who have acted them, into one
of earth's ideal spots of peaceful and refined
isolation from fierce excitement of business
and pleasure? Such Stratford seemed to us
on a summer's night and morning, now
seven years gone. Two visits we paid to
the home of his boyhood and one to the
church of his attendance and burial. Re-
finement, in one and a repeated word,
gathers up our impressions of Stratfords.
The place seems to have been finished three
centuries ago, and to be conscious, with a
quiet, unpretending dignity, of the historic
and poetic celebrity which then began to
be added to its natural loveliness of field,
stream, lanes and church-yard, the latter,

[Column 2]
but for the somewhat too grand and spacious
church, a perfect setting for Gray's Elegy.
	In such features as these, and in a certain
glorified atmosphere, Stratford and Weimar
seem to us much akin. The German town
has the advantage that its theatre is, if we
mistake not, as much a contemporaneous
monument of its classic age as is the church
where Herder preached, and the Grand-du-
cal palace with its mementos of Goethe's
taste. Perhaps the presence of a theatre
was as indispensable for Goethe's content
in Weimar as a home, as its absence for
Shakespeare's in Stratford. But we will
condone the theatre's intrusion into Strat-
ford, i[-] the memorial library under the same
roof be one where we can see all the early
folios, and the sumptuous editions on which
London aldermen have ruined themselves
and the best editions on which scholars have
spent labors of love, and above all, if the
art-gallery can bestow upon Shakespeare
those beautiful illustrations which, paid to
the Weimar galaxy of poets on the frescoed
walls of the Ducal residence, the homelike,
chaste, and elegant among palaces, seemed
to us the most appropriate memorials ever
awarded to genius.
	One can stand in few places upon earth
as impressive as the chancel of the church
in Stratford, where he looks down upon the
inscription of the pavement that covers
Shakespeare's ashes' and up to his mural
bust. We may compare with it in a degree
the tomb of Napoleon under the dome of
the Invalids, and the sarcophagus of Fred-
eric the Great, in the Garrison Church at
Potsdam. But where shall we find any
parallel to our reflections as we stand in
Shakespeare's early home in Henley street,
and think upon the miracle, that out of this
humble house proceeded the greatest prod-
igy of human nature, to express whose
range of thought and feeling acquired a
vocabulary double that of Milton, the im-
personation of high native powers perfected
by the finest cultivation?—The Watchman.
	Cambridge, April 23, 1879,


40		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TO THE LADIES!
HEALTH Corsets, Shoulder Braces, Skirt Supporters,
Back Braces, and Abdominal supporters, for sale or
made to order, by P. E. HARPER, First South Street,
nearly opposite Theatre.
	Mrs. ZINA D. YOUNG, agent for this Territory.
	Physicians and Ladies, call and examine.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any notice and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. I[-]s self-
setting and self-threading bu[-]tle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders i[-] both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, [-]alt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[--] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap,	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	- 35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	- 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER.
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, P[-]ushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work gauranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace. Ties a large
	variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
	cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
	And in fact everything you want in general
	merchandise. Conference visitors, call at
TEASDEL'S

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

"A Word fitly Spoken is like Apples of Gold in Pictures of Silver."

