VOL. 8		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1880.		No. 23.


ENCOURAGE YOUR DAY-DREAMS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

I dreamt, Oh! I dreamt when a girl in my teens,
That life was a river with beautiful streams.
And that I conld row down it in gilded canoe
With one that I loved, to help paddle it too.

I built many castles, both splendid and high,
I sent up my kite till the clouds, it was nigh.
The ideal, to me, was a beautiful world,
And the banner I lifted in glory unfurled!

Years gathered around me but still the ideal
Floated ever above me to brighten the real!
The banner I'd raised in my beautiful youth,
Bore in letters of prism, the single word Truth.

I still had my day-dreams, they gilded my life,
And shut from my vision the sorrows or strife.
I'd always a Future that beckon'd me on;
And in every desert, an oasis shone.

On which I could bask and take rest from the toil
Of this work a day world, with its ceaseless turmoil,
I strove to keep true to the dream of my youth
And bore up my banner whose motto was Truth.

I look'd back on the past with a comforting pride
All trial and grief I endeavor'd to hide
In the archives of Him who is Father and God,
Supporting the true, while they pass 'neath the rod.

I still had my dreams, but they were not so bright
With regard to this earth and its shimmering light,
I held on to my Ideal because it was true,
Aud constantly held up my banner to view;

And here let me say (as there's some who think
My muse is chimerical, or just on the brink)
Just ponder the matter, and then you will see
The inner works outer to show what we'll be.

To elaborate destiny waiting on all
And speaking prophetic to great and to small,
And the pictures the ideal presents to our view
Are visions of that which awaits me and you!

I still have a future—yes even on earth,
In my ideals there never is sorrow or dearth:
They've come in reality often enough
To teach me to mingle the smooth with the rough.

We're learning to make all the Heaven we need,
Ideality helps us—twill never impede,
'Tis only a type of the future that's given
To brighten the pathway that leads us to Heaven!

Then treasure your day-dreams, but let common sense
Attend your imaginings as a defence—
Educate! Educate, both heart and brain;
And the ideal will never need bridle or rein;

But will open the door, with her glimpses all fair
And shew you sweet visions, all lovely and [-]are;
And this son of the Spirit will never decline
Till in mansions above in meridian 'twill shine.

	S. L. City April i880.


[Column 1]
HOME INFLUENCE.

	Home is the place dear to all; the place
round which sweet associations cluster long
after one has gone forth into the world.
Home is the place where our minds are
formed, our first impressions are received.
There we are either influenced for good or
evil. There we love with true and undy-
ing affection and are loved again. If the
early influence by which we are surrounded
in our home tend to good, to inspire pure
thoughts and cultivate correct principles and
habits, then we incline to be good, pure and
upright. If the surroundings of our home
are evil then the mind of the child becomes
perverted and evil tendencies and inclina-
tions have the ascendancy and the child be-
comes bad. What society can we ever find

[Column 2]
that we love as much as the society of the
dear ones at home? What is there as pleasant
after a hard day's labor as the cheerful, hap-
py home, where the influence of love is
ever felt; and is apparent to all who enter?
Where all the family sit around the fire
each doing his or her part to make the
evening pass pleasantly, when the day's
toll is over. Those who have such a home
do not wish to go and spend their evenings
walking the streets or where they may be
exposed to all sorts of company that would
tend to make young people unsteady and ir-
regular in their habits or impair their worth
of character. Indulging in irregularities
and frequenting all sorts of places leads
from one degree of evil to another and in
most instances with boys leads to drunken-
ness and gambling. For instance take the
young people who spend most of their
evenings at home, you will find them not
only the best but the best improved on all
subjects which are adapted to the young.
How much can be acomplished at home if
we rightly devote our time. How much
knowledge is gained at the home by those
who are really in earnest. How much bet-
ter to pursue some study at home than to
be running around trifling away our time
and accomplishing no good purpose in life.
The influences we feel at home are lasting
ones, as hundreds of intelligent men and
women grown old in knowledge will testify.
Home is the just conducter giving just ideas
to the infant mind. If all is smooth easy
and pleasant at home we take the feeling
out into the world with us. If all is
discord, and peace has fled from the home,
how terrible for the inmates. Home is our
first school there we take our first lessons in
life, there our hearts glow with childish
love and pity, with sympathy and affection
for those who sit by our side, who share
our joys and sorrows, who feel with us the
trials and cares of the present life.
	The influence of home is what gives to
society its vigor and tone, and where the
homes of the people are the brightest hap-
piest places on earth, where charity peace
and good will are the chief characteristics,
there they predominate in societyabove the
others. The strongest influences are home
influences and these properly exercised in-
fluence the whole after life.
[handwritten] Annie W. Camelia	CAMELIA.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE National Woman Suffrage Association
will hold its Twelfth Annual Convention
in Masonic Hall, Corner of Washington and
Tennessee Sts., Indinapolis, Ind., Tuesday
and Wednesday, May 25th and 26th,1880.
	All letters and contributions for the Con-
vention should be addressed to Mrs. May
Wright Thompson Sec. E. S. Society,561. N.
Alabama St. Indianapolis Ind.
	Notice of preliminary meetings will be
given hereafter,
	On behalf of the National Woman Suffrage
Association.
MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,Chairm'n Ex. Com.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Vice-Pres't-at-Large.
SARA ANDREWS SPENCER, Cor. Secretary.


REPORTS from the various branches in the
Scandinavian Mission are very favorable.
Relief Societies and Young Men's Improve-
ment Associations are now organized in the
various conferences. Our Sunday mission-
aries, who are appointed to go from family
to family with pamphlets and invite the
people to our meetings,have heen very suc-
cessful; and the sisters have been doing
good in the same labor. The Relief Society
has truly been a blessing this winter to the
sick, the poor and needy.—Millennial Star.

	THE Home Dramatic Club are preparing
to present the new play of "Ours."


FRIENDSHIP.

	Friendship is an attachment existing be-
tween persons of congenial minds tastes and
habits. Its origin is in our nature, men and
women naturally seek after social enjoy-
ment. They may be surrounded by all the
luxuries and amusement wealth can give
yet they could not be happy without friends
in whom they could confide and trust.
	We can scarcely open any volume of an-
tiquity without discerning how great a
thing is friendship. For example take
Damon and Pythias, David and Jonathan,
these two cases only show to what a degree
of enthusiasm it was carried. Even the
great Cæsar thought it of enough impor-
tance to make it the subject of one of his
masterly essays. Although we do not see
this carried to such a degree of enthusiasm
in this day yet we presume there are some
instances were they tested that would prove
to be as tender, strong and true. Yet all
those who assume the name of friends
should not be entitled to our confidence for
how many times in history has infidelity in
friendship proved fatal. Poor indeed is he
who has no friend, no one to go to in time
of trouble who does not even in this small
way know the blessing of a true and blessed
friendship.
	When sad and discouraged what can
bring such consolation as a friend one who
loves you and would if weary and sorrowful
lay his heart open at your feet that you
might heal the wound by some kind word,
some good advice which the noble nature
within you might prompt.
	Some may say we do not wish to burden
others with our trials, true we will not tell
those whom it will burden, but those who
are happy to know that by some, sweet,
kind word they can lighten the burden
and brighten the pathway of others.
	Then how happy both may feel though
sad still they know they are not alone,
there is some one who can appreciate their
sorrow and brighten and cheer their
saddest moments. This is the friend we
should strive to have and to be; not one
who because to him the cloud seems light
will say I have no sympathy for one who
is so foolish as to be troubled by so small a
thing. This is not our friend for he does
not know us, he does not understand that
some natures are much more sensitive than
others; and feel more keenly any little of-
fence. Our friend in such a case would say
some kind yet cheerful and pleasant word
to gladden us.					BEATRICE.


178		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
JUBILEE IN ST. GEORGE.

REPORTER S. Y. GATES.

	Minutes of the Celebration of the Jubi-
lee held in the Tabernacle. Called to order
by Pres. McAllister. Singing, Anthem,
"Hark! the song of Jubilee," by the choir.
Prayer, Pres. Henry W. Eyring. Singing,
"Jubilee Song," composed by C. L. Walker,
Choir.
	Reading of Revelation on Church, given
to Joseph Smith April 6. 1830, Sec. 20, new
edition Doc. and Cov., by J. M. McFarlane.
	Singing by choir and people, "The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning."
	Remarks by Elder Milo Andrus—Never
in a life's experience had been the feeling
of inability to do justice to an occasion of so
vast importance been experienced by the
speaker; and never had a spirit seemed so
akin to the one felt in Kirtland, at the
dedication of the Temple, as at present.
Exhorted the people to exert themselves to
obtain the Spirit of God to-day. Where
is the illiterate boy who first started out in
this grand march to heaven? He hoped, if
time was allowed him (the prophet), to visit
earth, that he might visit the audiences of
the Saints to day. The first fourteen years
were years of toil. The old, the middle-
aged, the youth, were not blamable for
their birth, but all were in place. Alluded
to the feast of the martyrs, which would be
a glorious affair. Wished that it conld be
noised abroad that although the Saints of
God had been driven and persecuted, yet
from now, henceforth and forever, that the
kingdom of God should triumph. A trib-
ute to the martyrs, Joseph and Hyrum, was
given by the speaker. All nature is in-
spired to-day—even unbelievers ought to
prophecy to-day, the air is full of the power
of God. The day was full of rejoicing.
Opposition had followed the Church since
the commencement. But if 'twere differ-
ent, the conviction would force itself upon
the mind that this Church was as the creeds
of the world. Exhorted all to remain true
to the Gospel. Where does this mind, this
intelligence go? To dust? No; it is part
of divinity—part of the Eloheim. Intelli-
gence is God; and may it double, treble,
and increase ten thousand times in the next
fifty years. Our course is onward, onward,
upward, eternally upward, eternal forever.
Closed with an invocation and blessing upon
all the people of God. Amen.
	Singing by the Swiss Choir, "We have
thought of thy loving kindness."
	Song, "Make home beautiful," by A. S.
W. Segmiller, chorus by the Choir.
	Select reading by A. W. Ivins,—selection
from Parley P. Pratt's Auti-biography.
	Music—organ solo—Elder Eugene Schaah-
maun.
	Telegram from Pres. E. Snow—
	April 6, 1880.—The Apostles voted to re-
mit the back tithing and P. E. Fund in-
debtedness to the worthy poor, and donate
one thousand cows and five thousand sheep,
and recommend general relief to the needy.
	Remarks by Pres. McAllister—Although
weak in body, the spirit was full of rejoic-
ing and solemnity. At times he had been
wrought upon to speak harshly, but it was
the chidings of a very dear friend. The
people had heard a sketch of Joseph Smith,
his life and glorious death. A few words
were added by the speaker to the remarks
of Bro. Andrus in relation to Joseph Smith;
a few items were added to the history of
the martyrs. The blessings of God and
power to do His will, were asked for by the
speaker. Amen.

[Column 2]
	Singing by the Santa Clara Choir, "Who
are these in bright array."
	Dismissed for thirty minutes by Bishop
Ensign.
	Opening one o'clock, Choir sang anthem,
"We're willing to wait a little longer."
	Prayer, D. H. Cannon.
	Singing by Santa Clara Choir, "We come,
dear friends, to greet you."
	Refreshments,
	Singing, "Springtime has come again."
	Address, Susie Young Gates. Music on
organ by Sister M. A. Dufrieze.
	Music, composed by a missionary, by the
Santa Clara Brass Band.
	Dialogue by Masters Woolley, Whitehead
and Romney.
	Duet, "What are the wild waves saying?"
	Trio, "Fret not thyself," J. Eardley and
daughters.
	Singing, "With a holy purpose."
	Hymn, Geoffrey Wellaner and wife.
	Quartette by the Staeheli.
	Remarks by Pres. McAllister—Seemed
to feel that the Spirit of the Lord had been
abundantly poured out this day. Read the
revelation to Oliver Cowdery in relation to
taking the name of the Lord without au-
thority. The duty of the President of the
High Priesthood is to preside over the
whole Church. Read parts of various reve-
lations. Gave a word of counsel to the
Bishops to see that those who are needy
may be supplied with comforts. Blessed
the people, the committees, the choirs, the
singers, the readers, the little boys, and all
who have taken any part. Amen.
	Choir sand, "Beautiful Moonlight."
	Dismissed by Bro. Edson Barney.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS.

DELIVERED AT ST. GEORGE TABERNACLE
APRIL 6, 1880, BY SUSA YOUNG GATES.

	Christ's latter-day kingdom's fiftieth
birthday! The dullest eye lights up, the
numbest heart is stirred with joy to greet
this year of jubilee.
	O'er dark and jagged paths, the feet of
those have trod who started out just fifty
years ago. The shrinking flesh oft torn by
cruel briars. The bleeding hands upheld
to God for grace. Fierce missiles of invec-
itve hate flung from all sides by Bigotry.
Hark! A shuddering horror leaps from heart
to heart, as through the camps the news is
spread of cold, fiendish murder. An al-
most worshiped prophet and a loved patri-
arch have sealed their everlasting faith up-
on the people's hearts,in dying for Christ's
kingdom. Mourn Israel! Weep daughters
of Zion! Gloom shadows all, the very birds
refuse to sing, for wicked men have slain a
man of God, have stained their hands with
the blood of Christ's priesthood. But lift
the darksome vail, oh saints and onward
take your way to the setting sun. The tiny
wail of murdered childhood, the graves
scooped out with quivering hands to lay
the best beloved on cruel foreign soil. The
pillaged home, the smoking ruins,the reek-
ing scenes of blood and carnage all mark
the progress of God's people to these lovely
vales.	*	*	*
	The dusty road ends in a lovely valley.
Strong men and brave women crowd out
and spread around to lay the plow and plant
the seed in virgin ground. Tents, wagons,
rude log huts, adobe houses arise on every
hand, and soon the curling smoke of peace
steals from the lowly homes upon the desert
air. A chain of valleys is filled and re-
deemed from north to south of our dear
Territory. Anon fair peace and gleesome

[Column 2]
plenty smile down upon the land. The
fields swing out their wealth and factories
hum with labor. Homes rise up in peace-
ful pride and busy life is unmolested. The
pilgrim band are led by God through Brig-
ham Young, and years fall into years and
still, 'tis peace. But now,a sound of wailing
sorrow chills the air, and even babes send
up their mourning cry for him that was the
people's father, friend and leader. But on,
on goes God's mighty work. The Twelve
take up the burden, and he who steps aside
is left behind.
	Now upon Zion's mount the people
gather to their Temples, and join the Hea-
venly hosts in giving Life to Death. This
year is full of past and future. And we
God's Israel wipe out the vengeful Past and
with an outstretched hand greet brother
sister in the future. Lay down the yoke of
Selfishness, O Saints, take np the wreaths of
Kindness, and celebrate our Jubilee with
Love aye, God-like Charity. All Israel's
heart throbs out with sweetest joy and
praise, and Israel's soul's a tuned harp,
which sings the glorious song of gladness.
Peal forth the heavenly news that Zion's
Jbuilee had oome!
	To day the seal of fifty years is set upon
the Kingdom's History. Rouse up ye
Saints! For aged hearts bound full of youth
to-day, and feel again the Spring of Life.
Firm middle age the firmer grasps the Iron
Rod, and sends one mighty song to God.
Bright youth adjusts his heavenly armor on
to-day and feels the thrill of love divine in
taking up His Word.
	Shout out the song of praise. Respond ye
hearts and tongues of Israel. And join the
Angel Choruses, and sing, eternal praises
to our King. Let all the people say Amen!!
and Amen!!!


THE POWER OF A CYCLONE.

In discussing the two cyclones, which
visited the Bay of Bengal in October, 1876,
Mr.  Elliott, Meteorological Reporter  to the
Government of Bengal,  incidentally  gives
us some idea of the cyclopean forces  which
are developed by such storms.  The average
"daily evaporation," registered by the Ben-
gal instruments in October,is "two inches."
The amount of heat absorbed by the conver-
sion of this amount  of water  daily, over so
large an area as  the  Bay of Bengal is enor-
mous.  "Roughly estimated," says Mr.  El-
liot,  "it is equal to the continuous  working
power of 800,000  steam  engines  of 1,000
horse  power."  A simple  calculation, will
show that it suffices to rise aloft over 45,000
cubic feet of  water  in  twenty-four  hours
from every square mile of the bosom of the 
bay, and transport  it to  the clouds  which
overhang it,  When we extend the calcula-
tion from a single square mile to the  area of 
this whole  Indian gulf,  the mind is lost in
the effort to conceive the  force which, in a
day's time, can lift 50, 000,000 tons! Yet, it
it would be easy to show that  such figures,
fabulous as  they  seem,  do  not  adequately
represent  the  cyclonic  forces  of  a  single
storm.--Popular Science  Monthly.


FROM A DISTINGUISHED CLERGYMAN.—
I have known of several persons who re-
garded themselves as greatly benefited, and
some of them as permanently cured of dis-
eases of the kidneys and urinary organs by
your medicine, Warner's Safe Kidney and
Liver Cure. I have known, too, of its use
in similar cases by physicians of the highest
character and standing. I do not doubt
that it has great virtue. J. E. RANKIN.
Washington, D. C., June 19, 1879.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		179


[Column 1]
THE FLOWERS.

Winter had rapped his ermine robe
	Around him and was gone;
And spring, aflush with loveliness,
	Greeted the rosy dawn.

Above the hum of passing wheels
	She heared a charmed call,
And from her tired hands she let
	The weary sewing fall.
The voice of nature to the heart,
	Through varied melodies;
The voice of bird, and waterfall,
	And whispers of the breeze.
She left the busy, crowded town,
	And with her child she strayod,
To where the green wood reaching wide,
	Its fairy haunts displayed.
She stood npon the rising hill,
	Where'er the glad eye turned;
Adown the sunny southern slopes,
	The varied colors burned.
And from the dimpled, swelling plain,
	In modest worth and grace;
Of Myriad varied forms and hues,
	They look up to her face.
Down from the overdrooping boughs,
	Their lovely banners hung;
And nodding bells, to passing breeze,
	Their gracious perfumes sung,
Within the forests dewy shades
	Uprose the graceful fern;
And birds at concert overnead,
	The brooks sweet praise returned,
And here, and there, she gathered them,
	These gifts of nature wild;
And all seemed giving welcome to
	The widow and her child.
Yet o'er the gladness of the scene,
	A sacred sadness crept,
Remembering him, who once with her
	These greenwood visits kept.
And here, and there, she gathered them,
	And when the twilight fell,
The seamstress took back to her home,
	The day's sweet rest and spell.
Then bending o'er her treasures fair
	For love's sweet memory;
Their beauties knew no change transfixed,
	By her rare alchemy.

Still nearer to the widow's door
	The cruel hard time's pressed;
Though hard she toiled, denying self
	Of rightful food and rest.
Then spoke a neighboring, widowed friend,
	"There is one, rich and great,
And she, perhaps might buy these flowers,
	And ease your present fate."
She flushed that aught wrought for love's sake,
	Should find a price in gold:
Yet for her child's sake, well she knew
	Her treasures should be sold.
"Now brush your daughter's sunny curls,
	And let her take them there;
"And I will sit awhile with you,
	The happy news to share".

She paused within the open door
	Of a rich spacious room;
The fairest picture that it held,
	Though flowers exotic bloomed.
"What do you want! how came you here!
	I'd like to have you tell?"
"Lady, the trembling child replied,
	I rang your front door bell.
Your servant sent me here, to you;
	Perhaps you'd like to buy
These wild-wood flowers"—"how dare you come!
	Your flowers, indeed! not It
Such insolence, these low, poor, have!
	Right in here from the street!"
"Lady, I wiped my shoes, there is
	No dust upon my feet;
We're poor, but we're respectable,
	We are not mean and low,
If you could see my mother once,
	You would not call her so."
Swiftly adown her flushing cheeks,
	The shining tear drops rolled:
	Like loosened pearls, from broken string,
O'er carmine velvet rolled.
She turned away with quivering lip,
	Frightened, heart sick and sore;
"Here," called the haughty dame, "this way,
	Go out of my back door."

Her choking sobs she scarce could hush,
	But on the lady's ear,
Fell but the sound of carriage wheels,
	Of suitors drawing near.

Ah, little need within her home,

[Column 2]
	Her story to rehearse!
The widowed friend laid in her lap,
	The one coin in her purse.
Thou, who didst bless the widow's mite,
	Friend of the sad, and poor!
Help us, to still trust to thy word,
	And all thy tests endure.

					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
April 5th, 1880.


[Column 1]
PLEASANT SPRINGTIME.

	At this season ot the year in this "happy
valley" everything ought on natural princi-
ples to be gay and smiling, but on the con-
trary the sun is as capricions as any old
bachelor and seldom lets us see his cheery
face. Gloom out doors is an almost sure indi-
cation of gloom in doors,and really one has to
make a little extra exertion to be cheerful
and complacent through all the variations
of this changable moody, sullen weather.
But now that we have bidden farewell to
sweet tearful April and bonny merry May
is here we may hope to get a little bright
sunshine and a few fair flowers, and earth
will begin her preparations with the assist-
ance of the fair maiden Spring under diffi-
culties, to all appearance now, for the royal
visit of June, queen of Summer. Yes in
the language of the poet.

"The me rry May hath pleasant hours,and dreamily they
	glide.
As if they floated, like the leaves, upon a Silver tide;
The trees are full of crimson buds, the woods are full of
	birds.
And the waters flow to music, like a tune with pleasant
	words."

	Spenser says, "And when the shining
sun laugheth once," Then we deem the
spring cometh, but we have scarcely seen
the sun laugh yet. What a longing there
is in the heart for a sight, a smell of the
green leaf and tiny buds. Winter has lain
long upon the hills, loth to take his leave,
and we have felt his frosty breath upon our
brows and I fear he has nipped our hearts a
little as well as our fingers. Now there is a
sort of vernal air, and a faint breath of the
freshness from the fields and groves,and the
feathered songsters of the forest are begin-
ing to warble their charming melodies, and
cheer us with bird music and the brooks are
waking echo upon echo among the trees
and rocks breaking from their prison beds
away in the far off hills, and warbling in
softer strains as they wind along through
the valleys, where the bending willows
drooping, dip their delicate fringes daintily
in the clear stream.
	Sweet Spring, full of pleasant days invit-
ing tender thoughts and calling us out of our
seclusion into the open air to listen to the
voices of nature and catch the inspiration
of the "new born year."
	It is not strange to me that Spring is
compared to youth, it has the same fresh-
ness, elasticity and vigor; and its effect np-
on the spirits, is like the companionship of
the young, whose hearts are pure and full of
rich promises like the tender buds upon the
trees,shrubs and flowers.Sweet dainty apple-
blossoms, fragrant as the breath of infancy,
what cunning hand can paint you in your
true freshness and give you perfume? Alas,
none. Ye are natures own. Gentle violet,
too modest.to lift its beauteous head,whose
pencil shall give it the faint delicate breath
which reminds one of child-life innocent
and pure.
	And the pansies with their bright eyes,
pretty ways and tender sentiments. Yes,
the pansies speak to us; they tell us a thous-
and things we once knew but have forgot-
ten. The language of flowers is to us a
hidden mystery; we feel its sympathy

[Column 2]
with our finer nature, and we yearn to give
it expression. It approaches to the infinite
something incomprehensible. The love of
flowers is always refining; they comfort us;
their silent presence brings us good company
I've sometimes thought that good angels
loved to linger near them and that was
why they soothed us so, in trials and in sor-
row; then they seem to help us more in
their quiet way than human words. Blessed
flowers. But I fear I digress, I was writing
of Spring. The poor cows and sheep will
welcome it with as fervent a greeting as we
do. And it will gladden the hearts of the
herdsman and shepherd. Never was Spring
welcomed more truly than now, for the
burden of the winter months has been heavy
and h ard upon all. "The cattle upon a
thousand hills" have hungered, and been
pinched with cold and destitute of food and
shelter; our hearts ache for the poor dumb-
beasts,and the fresh grass though only very
short and sparse is to them a luxury.
Where the nibbling flocks do stray.
	The farmer scarce dares venture forth
upon his work so uncertain lower the skies.
But we begin to hear the plowman whistle,
and we fancy Spring has come. Welcome!
thrice welcome! genial, balmy, pleasant
springtime.
						AUNT EM.


AN ADDRESS.

	Accompanying a banner presented to
Elders George Goddard, Wm. Willis and
Samuel L. Evans, as a token of appreciation
and regard, in consideration of their long,
continued efforts in behalf of Sunday
Schools.

	It is with feelings of gratitude that I
present this banner to you as a small token,
of our appreciation of your services in the
great and glorious cause in which you are
engaged. 
	History tells us of mighty conquerors
who have founded empires; and of royal
monarchs, who have ruled in splendor.
But the books of inspiration tell us, that he
who guides the young into the path of in-
telligence and truth is greater than these.
	The eagle is the National Emblem of
America—the land of Zion--not because of
the brilliancy of its plumage or the music of
its voice; but, because of its daring ambi-
tion, by which it reaches the loftiest hights,
and gazes fearlessly at the sun shining in
his strength.
	So may it ever be your ambition to gain
the loftiest hights of usefulness and bask
in the sunshine of intelligence and truth.
	The flags remind us of our country, whose
flag has braved for more than a hundred
years "the battle and the breeze." The
shield reminds us of the shield of faith and
as green leaves are a type of life and vigor,
so may your memories be green and vigorous
in the minds of thousands in the days to
come. And when the buds of your noble
endeavors shall be transplanted from the
cold soil of this present life, to bloom in
fadeless beauty on the hills of immortality;
and the struggling of the good against the
powers of evil shall have resulted in the
victory of the right; then during the eter-
nities to come, may you be among those
who shall know the joys of victory after the 
battle—of triumph when your toil is done.
	Yours with respect.
					KATE M. CHASE.
	Centreville April 6, 1880.


180		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.

	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1880.


[Column 1]
SOME PARAGRAPHS OF CIRCULAR.

	A Circular from the Twelve Apostles has
been published by the "Deseret Evening
News," which gives explicit and definite in-
structions to Presidents of Stakes and Bishops
how to arrange matters pertaining to remitting
P. E. Fund indebtedness, delinquent tithing,
and the donation of cows and sheep; also per-
taining to the wheat stored for Zion, and gen-
eral remarks.

THE LOANING OE RELIEF SOCIETY WHEAT.

	In accordance with a unanimous vote of the 
sisters present at our late General Conference,
we recommend that you loan to your respect-
ive Bishops so much wheat as they may con-
sider requisite to meet the necessities of the
deserving poor.
	We a so recommend that the Bishops receipt
to you and take receipts from those to whom
they distribute, that the wheat loaned may be
faithfully returned when circumstances shall
permit.
	We realize that our sisters have performed a
highly commendable and praiseworthy labor
in storing wheat for future emergencies, and
we trust that, inasmuch as the wheat has been
loaned without interest, the Bishops, in carry-
ing out the above measures, will see that they
receive a full equivalent for their loans, taking
into consideration the losses in changing, as
well as the difference between old and new
wheat as to quality and quantity. The shrink-
age is supposed to be about ten per cent. The
Bishops should be responsible for the return of
the wheat, hence they should loan on good se-
curity, and to such persons as will return the
same according to agreement. It should be
loaned mainly for seed. Tne Tithing Office
will in no case be responsible for the return of
the whole, or any part thereof.

THE FORGIVENESS OF DEBTS TO THE WORTHY
				POOR IN ZION.

	At our recent Annual Conference the Church,
by common consent, remitted one half of the
people's entire indebtedness to the Perpetual
Emigrating Fund Company, and one-half of
the amount due on back tithing account, ag-
gregating about $875,900. This amount to ap-
ply to the cancellation of the obligations of the
worthy poor on their emigration and tithing
accounts; thus freeing them from a burden
which they have been unable to honorably
cast off. To all such, in this regard, we offer a
Jubilee. Tne power of God moving the hearts
of the Saints still further, caused them to ap-
propriate, for the relief of the deserving poor
in Zion, one thousand head of cows and five
thousand head of sheep. In addition to this,
the Relief Societies, with a liberal generosity,
offer to loan to the needy some 34,000 bushels

[Column 2]
of wheat until after harvest, without interest.
With these worthy examples, as the fruits of
the Gospel, before us, we wish to extend to all
our brethren and sisters the privilege of aiding
in this good work of compassion and love. We
respectfully remind those who have the riches
of this world more abundantly bestowed upon
them, that they have a fitting opportunity of
remembering the Lord's poor. If you hold
their notes and they are unable to pay, forgive
the interest and the principal, or so much
thereof as you might desire them to forgive
were their and your circumstances reversed;
thus doing unto others as you would that
others should do unto you. For upon this
hang the law and the prophets. If you have
mortgages upon the homes of your brethren or 
sisters, who are poor, worthy and honest, and
who desire to pay you but cannot, free them in 
whole or in part. Extend to them a jubilee,
if you can consistently. You will have their
faith, prayers and confidence, which may be
worth more than money. We invite Zion's 
Co-operative Mercantile Institution as the
parent; all other co-operative institutions as
the children; our brethren who are engaged in
profitable railroad, banking, mercantile, manu-
facturing, or other remunerative enterprises,
to extend a helping hand. Free the worthy
debt bound brother if you can. Let there be
no rich among us from whose tables fall only
crumbs to feed a wounded Lazarus. Rather let
us each and all do our part honorably, justly,
charitably and well. The Church of Christ
has given us a worthy example, let us follow
it, so that God may forgive our debts as we for-
give our debtors. By so doing, you will, as
Jesus says, "Make unto yourselves friends with
the mammon of unrighteou[-]ness, that when
ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting
habitations."
	That all these matters may be carried prompt-
ly to a successful issue, we advise the Presi-
dencies of the several Stakes and the Bishop's
agents, to proceed at once to visit all the wards
therein, holding meetings in order to arrange
all these matters while making their visits.
By this means they will more readily accom-
plish what is herein required, and have their
minds relieved of the responsibilities relating
thereto. Those needing wheat for seed must
of course have it soon in order that it may be
available for that purpose this season; While
those needing cows and sheep will appreciate
promptness in their delivery.
				JOHN TAYLOR,
		In behalf of the Council of Apostles.


EDUCATION OF THE YOUNG.

   Is there anything of so much  importance as
the proper education of the young?  Is it not
necessary to  make  Herculean  efforts to  train
them in the right direction?  Upon them must
eventually rest  all  the  responsibilities  of an
important  era.  If  they  are  to  do  a  greater
work than their parents, if more is to be accom-
plished in the near future, as Zion increases in
numbers and gains power and strength, then
assuredly they need to be thrice armed, "for their
quarrel is  just," to prepare  them for the  great
events which are  about  to develop.  There is
no time to be lost.  Wickedness is  on  the  in-
crease, the powers  of  darkness are mustering
all their  forces.  The Saints  should  gather
strength  to  combat  darkness  and  error, by
moral and spiritual forces.
 A deep sleep seems to have fallen upon some,
and they are indifferent to the evil influences
that  are  fast  gaining  ground, and perchance
creeping stealthily into  their own households.
Is there not a parable of a farmer whose enemy
came and sowed tares while  he  slept?  At the
present time there  are some mothers carelessly
dozing, and the  cunning one is sowing in  the
hearts of their innocent little  children  the
seeds of misery and wretchedness; seeds that
will spring up in time to come, and whose fruit
will be a deadly poison.  Oh, mothers, awake!
look to your darling ones; watch them more
carefully; they  are indeed  precious  gems en-
trusted to your care; see to it they are not lost,
or the lustre  of  their spirits dimmed.  Gather
them around you and teach them  the  princi-
bles of honesty, virtue, and truth.  Do not leave
them wholly to the care of others, if you can
possibly devote to their instruction a portion of
your own time. The best  education you can
give to the  little  ones is  home  discipline; a
mother's gentle, restraining, guiding influence.
 As they grow in years and enter upon school
life, do not give up your mother-share in their
education. Watch over their various pursuits;
encourage them to come to you  with all their
doubts; then you may have the opportunity to
give them light and strength  to wrestle with
difficulties. Be careful that their instructors
in  every  department  of life-work are such as
you can approve; those who will teach them
truth, not error.  Select judiciously their com-
panions and their books.  Books are compan-
ions.  Many false ideas and unholy sentiments
are gathered from these silent associates.
 To aid mothers in the spiritual education of
the children, the  Primary  Associations  have
been organized among the  Saints.  They will
have  an influence to lead them into the chan-
nel of a  proper education.  As a people we can
not be too particular in training the children.
It is necessary they should  have mighty faith,
for disease in the form of pestilence is about to
sweep over the earth, and nothing but faith in
God, through  the  administration  of His holy
ordinances, can stay its progress.  The physical
condition must be preserved as pure as possible,
and all the spiritual faculties strong and bright
to effectually wrestle with the powerful agen-
cies which will be more terrible and destrut-
ive than the sword.
 In what condition is the world to battle with
these elements of death?  Read their own pub-
lications and you will learn. 
  The early  education  of children should re-
ceive more careful attention from  the  mother
than any other department of her work.  "I
have no time to teach my children," are words
we often  hear from a mother.  Then let some-
thing else go undone.  Eager  and  anxious to
learn, thirsting, hungering  for  knowledge, if
you do not satisfy this earnest craving of their 
little minds some one else will; and it may not
be the kind of intelligence which will be good
for them; that will yield good fruit in time to
come.  The children want knowledge, they
are born with the desire to obtain it, and it is 
the duty of parents and teachers to supyly
them with  that  which  will  prove  of lasting
benefit. New methods of instruction are being
devised  constantly  for  their  education  in
schools, and every facility that will add to the
improvement in book learning, but Latter-day
Saints want something more.  The children of
Zion have God's work to do and their discipline
and education should be administered  accord-
ingly.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.—Dr. Romania B.
Pratt will open a class in this branch of medi-
cine in her office in the Constitution Building,
on the 10th of May, at 4 P. M.


[Column 1]
	Tuition for six months, $30; Books, three in
number, $12.
	N. B. It takes twelve days to get the books
from the East,

	FROM THE BANKS OF THE HUDSON.—H. H.
Warner & Co., Rochester, N. Y.,—Gentlemen:
"A lady of over seventy years of age, in failing
health for over a year, has been using Warner's
Safe Bitters on my recommendation She
feels very grateful for the benefit she has de-
rived therefrom, and says that until she used
it her stomach could bear no vegetable food for
over three years. I believe it to be a certain
specific for dyspepsia.
						J. T. JOSLYN, M. D.
	NEWBURG, N. Y., Oct. 20, 1879.

	FRIDAY, April 16, in company with Mrs. S
M. Heywood we had the pleasure of attending
the Relief Society Annual Conference of Davis
Stake of Zion, Mrs. Sarah I. Holmes presiding.
Reports were read from all parts of the county,
which bore positive testimony of the good work
being accomplished. The weather was unfa-
vorable for a large gathering, but there was a
good feeling and spirit in the meeting. In the
afternoon Sister Heywood addressed the con-
gregation in an interesting and earnest man-
ner, after which we spoke to them of our con-
victions and experience, and Bishop Hess elo-
quently testified to the truth of what had been
spoken.
	A PLEASANT SURPRISE.—On Friday evening,
April 16, the family and a few friends of Presi-
dent A. O. Smoet gathered at his residence to
give a surprise greeting to Sister Margaret T.
Smoot—his estimable and venerable wife—in
honor, of her seventy-first birthday. "Ma"
Smoot was, on the occasion, the recipient of
numerous congratulations and sincere good
wishes for a prolonged and happy existence.
	We copy the above notice from the "Territo-
rial Enquirer," and we add our congratulations
to others, and that this amiable lady may see
many happy returns of the day in health, sur-
rounded by loving relatives and friends. "Ma"
Smoot, as she is affectionately styled, is a vete-
ran in Mormonism, and an unflinching practi-
cal advocate of Patriarchal Marriage.

	THE Primary Association of the 13th Ward
celebrated its first anniversary on Friday, April
23, Mrs. Relief Atwood presiding. There were
quite a number of visitors present and the ex-
ercises were very interesting. The music, sing-
ing and reciting all showed thoughtful care
and training. The whole of the Word of Wis-
dom was recited correctly by a very small boy.
After the programme for the children was fin-
ished, the children were addressed by Elder
George Goddard in his happy manner, and he
sang for them "Children may come to Jesus,"
all of them joining in the chorus. Sisters E.
B. Wells, Rachel R. Grant and E. H. Goddard
each spoke a few words of encouragement to
them, exhorting them to continue in their
spiritual improvement. Oranges and candy
were distributed to all, also cards of merit.
These associations are gathering in the little
ones, and teaching them to walk in the path
that leads to happiness and peace. And we
feel to say, God bless those engaged in this no
ble work.

	ON Thursday, April 15, we had the pleasure
of attending the first Anniversary of the Pri-
mary Association of the 12th Ward, Mrs. Ellen
S. Clawson, presiding. There were quite a
number of visitors present. The exercises
were interesting and well conducted. Several
pieces were sung in a pleasing style, and good
order was observed thoughout. After the
children had gone through the programme,

[Column 2]
Sister E. R. Snow and Elder Robert Campbell,
each made a few remarks, and then the meet-
ing closed with prayer by one of the little boys
a son of Dr. Seymour B. Young. Mrs. Claw-
son then distributed among the children suita-
ble prizes of books and cards of merit. The
closing act was the presentation of the picture of
a cross, neatly framed, from the children to their
President, Mrs. Clawson. Miss Hardy pre-
sented it with a pretty little speech made in
the happiest manner possible. Mrs. Clawson,
although taken by surprise, replied eloquently.

	THE officers and members of the Primary
Association of the 20th Ward met at the school
house to celebrate their fisst Anniversary, Fri-
day, April 16, Mrs. Emma Toone presiding.
There were present by invitation Sisters Eliza-
R. Snow and Bathsheba W. Smith, Elders
C. W. Stayner, F. M. Mitchell, and Bro.
Wheeler, officers of the Relief Society of the
ward, and most of the children's mothers.
The programme consisted of readings, reci a-
tions, songs, essays, and answering questions;
also several songs by all the children together.
After these exercises were over, a most tempt-
ing and delicious dinner was served to all. The
tables were neatly prepared, and one hun-
dred and twenty sat down to partake of the
feast Appropriate and interesting remarks
were made by Sisters Snow and Smith and
Elders Stayner and Mitchell, who expressed
their delight and surprise at the marked im-
provement of the Association in so short a
time.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to the com-
mittee of young sisters and brethren who aided
in making suitable arrangements and seating
the children; and a vote of thanks to the par-
ents who kindly furnished and prepared the
ample and excellent repast. There was a con-
siderable quantity of good things to spare after
all present had freely partaken, which were
distributed to the needy. All who participated
seemed to enjoy themselves, and a good spirit
and feeling was manifest.
			EMMA TOONE, Pres't,
			CECELIA SHARP, Cor. Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PLAYING MARBLE-KEEPS.

	Is not this  to the  boy what cards  are to the
man? If there are any who have not thought
of it, or are  doubtful  of the  fact, just observe
the intense absorption of the boys whole facul-
ties in winning and hoarding his marbles--
counting them over every night a[-] a miser does
his gold. Also just  take  time, you doubting
Thomas, who carelessly says, "Oh, let boys be
boys and have their innocent fun, for care and
toil come all too soon and hard;" just take time
to watch a game of keeps, and observe the 
most scrupulous exaction of the tiny competi-
tors, and the numerous  attempts to  take the
advantage, even to CHEAT; fully carrying out
the maxim of "All is fair in war." Also mark
the loud tone of wrangling, if fortunately it
does not come to blows--all indicating an edu-
cation not at all to be coveted, or calculated to
enhance or beautify home life. 
	As Heaven's own appointed special guardians,
we mothers should raise our voices against this
growing evil; we must  nip this budding love
for ill-gotten  gains  in the  germ, or many a 
mother  will  awake, alas!  all too late, to the 
heart rending realization that her beloved boy
--the apple of her eye--is a confirmed gambler. 
	In the  good  old  days, to win the game was
fun enough, why not now? Ah!  I forgot, we
have progressed. Humph!  like we have in
some other ways. The legitimate path of life
is too narrow, too  prosy; civilization demands


departure into by and forbidden paths for re-
laxation and recreation.
	As mothers, we cannot be too careful or too
diligent in guiding our sons and daughters into
the best and safest paths of life. If all moth-
ers will consider this subject and use their con-
certed influence against it, something will be
done. Our boys can play and be boys and still
grow to be honest men.
	Do any of us realize how much we mothers
have, or ought to do, to fulfill our motherhood
with such a record as shall tinge our cheeks
with joy and swell our hearts with pride when
our Father shall say, "Well done, thou good
and faithful mother."
	IDYL IVON.


OBITUARIES.
	The loving and beloved has departed. Sister
<c6nnne.diip;tbb dpm.?9tip7circle,as.="" wifs="" and="" mother—society="" feels="" theiqs="" ,="" ffuft="" and.fauhfuun.aiihemelatinuaius="" iifo,t="" hanki-honest="" ffhd="" junaeaumngfsb="" q<="" ?wpff-1="" he="" confidence="" of="" all="" who="" knewhetjand="" those.whoa-="" knew;hef="" .best="" appreciated="" her="" most,and="" many;,!="" vpry="" many:="" will="" cherish="" memory="" .arid="" mourn="" bet="" i03&="" :.="" :’i-="" ':="" ...="" .="" imjv="" fpmiearly="" chiidhddd'bisteri-thomas'chef.'="" ished="" in="" bosom="" confiding’="" trust'in="" godjnd1="" last="" dfstrekslbgrillnsss="" she="" had'nd="" dispo-="" sition-="" t6="" question1="" his”="" wise="" overrulibghuhd;="" but="" vary="" often="" testifietlu6f="" his="" gdocluesshnd'="" many="" special="" con="" tfuiiburbf63="" dogs="" be'"="" stowed="" on="" he;.="" ;the="" tfay="" o¥her,life="" gbe="" re!="" marked,="" if="" she'nffght="" elicit1="" washer="" tfish'<bj="" live,="" f="" the="" loffl="" willed="" otherwise,="" blessed="" be="" ha'rge="" dord.="" r="" "="" “="" ,1'="" tile="" closing="" scene.,bf="" hpr="" life'was="" not="" only="" onp="" of,="" bad="" syparat.l11es,="" oi="" .deep,="" instructive="" interest.="" although="" much‘of="" .the="" time="" dis-'="" tressed="" f()r="" breath,="" sue,g'a.ymuch="" counsel="" to="" members="" family,="" .expressed="" gratitude="" to.her="" friemls'for="" kipduefses.reieiyedj="" mental="" spiritual="" powers="" apparently="" being="" quickened="" by="" nearppproapb="" death.="" dpng,after="" her.="" pulse.="" had="" cra?e<hto:="" teat="" sbe-="" proposed,="" and,="" led="" singing-,qhp="" hypan-comv="" mencingwithj="" “ob,="" my="" father,'fc..="" sejeral'="" brnthetsand'="" sisters="" present;="" joined.dhr;butj(="" stranger.as="" itrwasj="" voice="" was:="" heatd="" the.="" hymn="" through';!and="" istiinuter,="" afterconvers-="" iog="" freely="" on-the'-nedr1="" approached="" the.worldu="" abbvo,="" aud="" after="" liading.taafco="" formal:="" leave="" dtii="" family="" friends,="" sang="" awebt,'¥ieai'r="" distinct="" tones,'the="" whole="" af'="" verse,="" “i'll="" pral.o="" hliaker'="" while-i've="" breath.’-'still1="" later="" yipeated,‘’receive="" mev="" m'y="" savior'="" in-="" glory="" :;my="" horije."="" -="" mesa="" were="" her'iast’‘="" wo'r'iis?'"'="" -‘t-'="" f$r="" some’="" tnlhhtes="" befb’fesfie="" ijilevly="" breathed="" 1'="" last,="" with1="" tfd?%y'4a="" 'tailed="" aii="" atw="" once="" countenance,'became="" illuminated="" with10="" ing.with="" thpsefo="" us,invisible.="" ',="" i="" hire="" r...s.="">Elizabeth F. Lindsay, wife of our much es-
teemed friend, Bro. C. J Thomas; departed
this life April 22, 1880, at 28 minutes past 11 p.
m, in the 13th Ward, Salt Lake City.
	Deceased was born March 8, 1838, in Buron-
Brae, Parish of Tarbolton, Ayrshire, Scotland;
was baptized in 1848, and emigrated with her
parents to Utah in 1863; was married to her
deeply bereaved husband (with whom, in the
loss of so dear and worthy a companion we
truly sympathize) November 12, 1864. But the
loss is not confined to the domestic circle as
wife and mother—society feels the loss.
	True and faithful in all her relations in life,
frank, honest and unassuming, she won the
confidence of all who knew her, and those who
knew her best appreciated her most,and many,
very many will cherish her memory and mourn
her loss.
	From early childhood Sister Thomas cher-
ished in her bosom confiding trust in God, and
in her last distressing illness she had no dispo-
sition to question His wise, overruling hand;
but very often testified of His goodness and
His many special and continuous blessings be-
stowed on her. The last day of her life she re-
marked, if she might choose it was her wish to
live, but if the Lord willed other wise, blessed
be the name of the Lord.
	The closing scene of her life was not only
one of sad sympathies, but of deep, instructive
interest. Although much of the time dis-
tressed for breath, she gave much counsel to
the members of her family, expressed her
gratitude to her friends for kindnesses received,
her mental and spiritual powers apparently
being quickened by the near approach of death.
	Long after her pulse had ceased to beat she
proposed and led in singing the hymn com-
mencing with, "Oh, my Father," etc. Several
brothers and sisters present joined in, but,
strange as it was, her voice was heard the
hymn through And still later, after convers-
ing freely on the near approach to the world
above, and after having taken formal leave of
her family and friends, she sang in sweet, clear
and distinct tones, the whole of the verse, "I'll
prai[-]e my Maker while I've breath." Still
later she repeated, "Receive me, my Savior,
in glory my home." These were her last
words."
	For some minutes before she quietly breathed
her last, with her eyes turned upward, all atonce her countenance became illuminated with
a radiant glow, and a most animated smile
played upon her lips, with an expression of
heavenly joy. We felt that she was commun-
ing with those, to us, invisible.
	E. R. S.

	DIED at Shonesburg, Kane Co., Utah, on the
13th of March, 1880, 20 minutes after 7 o'clock,


of  the  Young  Ladies  Association,  Sister
Parsons Pres. of the R. S., of Newton Bros.
Thomas Godfrey, Wm. Griffin, Richard God-
frey and Bishop Jardine.
 The Spirit of  God  was  enjoyed  by  the
speakers and hearers.  Our Bishop gave us
very kind  fatherly  advice and encouraged
the sisters to go on in the good  work  they
were engaged in; he felt greatly blessed by
the help received  from the  sisters in dona-
tions to the Logan Temple, and also in look-
ing after the poor.
 The Treasurer’s report was read  which
showed that there had been received $161,
93cts.  Disbursed to Logan Temple,$100,00.
to the poor, $237; balance on hand  $33,56;
$161,93.  Shares In Logan  Woolen Factory
$35.00;  Clarkston  Co-op  $45,00;  we  have
wheat stored up 86 bus. and 38lbs.  which is
now in the Bishop’s hands  to loan  to  the
worthy poor as he may think proper.
The health of the people  in  Clarkston  is
good and they are  in  general  striving  to
live their religion and assist in the building
up of God’s kingdom, on the earth.
 Desiring to do what little good  I may be
able to do and  praying  for the welfare of
Zion and all the honest  in  heart the  world
over, I remain  your sister  in the Gospel  of
peace and salvation.
					JANE  GODFREY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
 SALT LAKE STAKE.
 The Quarterly Conference  of Relief So-
cieties, Young Ladies' and  Primary  Asso-
ciations was held  in the  Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Uooms,  March 19  and  20, 1880.
Reports  received  for  the  quarter  ending
March  15.  Meeting  commenced  at  ten
o'clock  A. M. Friday, March  19. On the
stand were President of R. S. Stake, M.I.
Horne, and her counselors,  Elmina S. Tay-
lor and Sarepta M. Heywood, President Y.
L. M. I. A., Mary A. Freeze, Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, Mrs. M. P.  Young, and Secretary
R. S. Stake, Elizabeth Howard. Synopsis of 
proceedings, speeches, etc.:
 The meeting opened by singing. Prayer
by Mrs. Rebecca  Jones. Singing. Secre-
tary read  minutes  of last  Conference  and
reports from  the  branch  Relief Societies.
Pres. Horne made some remarks upon vocal
music;  also urged the sisters to be punctual
in sending  in reports, and to pay attention
to filling  up the  blanks properly, and learn
to be business women. Earnestly requested
that each ward in the Stake  be represented
verbally by its president or her  counselors,
and  invited all  the  presidents  who  were
present to  come and take seats on  the plat-
form.  Made  other  appropriate remarks,
after which  the  Doxology  was sung, and
meeting adjourned  until  2  P. M. Prayer
by Mrs. M. P. Young.
	Afternoon session:  Meeting  opened with
singing and prayer. Pres. Horne addressed
the sisters on  the  subjects  of unity, faith
and the responsibilities of parents, and par-
ticularly mothers. Mrs. Miller, Pres. R. S.
Twentieth Ward, referred to the large num-
ber of poor and aged they had to attend to
in that ward, and eulogized their late presi-
dent, Mrs. Anna Savage. Mrs. E. S. Taylor
spoke of having recently attended the Sis-
ter's Conference of Tooele Stake; said there
were many brethren present, which was a
great help to the sisters in their endeavors
to  do  good. Spoke  upon  unity  and obe-
dience, and the deference which all should
show to the Priesthood, even the humblest
office  pertaining  to  it.  Mrs.  S M. Hey-
wood said she felt much of the stupendous
work that devolves upon the women of this
Territory. We must  work  together  with
the brethren our interest cannot be divided.
A goodly number of us spent  the  strength
of our young days in coming here  to build
this Territory  but  let  us  try  to still
live to  be  useful  and  help  to  roll  on
this work. 
	Mrs Peart,  Farmers  Ward represented
that Society  as  in  good  condition. Mrs
Fielding 5th Ward S.L. City first Counselor
to  Mrs.  Brimley  spoke  encouragingly of
that Society. Mrs. P. Kimball:  I fear we
do not realize the megnitude  of  the work
we are engaged in, we are here to magnify
our position before God and to prepare our-
selves for every  responsibility  and duty in
life. Let us  teach  our  children  to  have
faith that we may be able to save them from
sickness and  death. It is a  credit to any
ward to take care of the poor;  a little thing
that will cheer and comfort  is a blessing. I
like this  world,  God  made it. I like  my
home, sisters let  our  homes be  houses  of
prayer, let us sustain  those  who  are over
us, and pray for them; let us have less pride
and vanity; *  *  *  Mrs. M. R.  Thomp-
son spoke upon benevolence and  the plenty
we  enjoy,  thought  we  should  do every-
thing that would tend to make  happy  the
sick and needy. Made excellent remarks
upon the  "Word  of  Wisdom,"  said we
should try to observe it that we may receive
the promises.
	Mrs. P, Woodruff:  said on one main point
we are united, that is that God speaks from
the heavens to  us. Let us do to others as
we would have  others  do  to us;  our dead
are watching us to  see if we  are faithful,
they are  anxious  we  should  do  for  them
what they  cannot do  for  themselves: and
let us be faithful and true to the priesthood:
and be of that number that will  be blessed
by entering into our Temples and doing the
work for our progenitors.
	Mrs E  Webb;  said she felt the great nec-
essity of our being united;  our labors are to
be exteuded in all directions, let us prepare
ourselves for the great work, we  are called
to do. Mrs. M. Wilcox; said  we  have the 
priesthood in our midst  and  in  proportion
to the strength given by that power through
the servants of God, the adversary  will  do
his  utmost to thwart the good.
 Mrs. A.  Neal  said  she  knew  the  Lord
loved  his daughters  as  well  as he did his
sons, and  we  should attain to  the  same
glory;  thought we should look  well after
our young  people and keep  them from all
outside  society  if  possible;  said  many
mothers are remiss in sending  the children
to the little meetings where they are taught
the ways of the Lord; made other good re-
marks on the subject of woman. 
	Pres. Horne; said a few words and sug-
gested to the sisters to read  the 9th Chapter
of Daniel. Singing. Meeting adjourned to
10  A.  M.  March  20. Benediction. Mrs.
Rachel  R. Grant.
	Statistical and  Financial  reports  of  the
Relief Societies  Salt  Lake  Stake  for  the
Quarter ending March 15, 1880.
 Statistical: teachers, 545;  members 2188;
meetings held 183; average attendance 698;
Woman's EXPONENT, taken 403.
 Financial: On hand at date of last  report
cash  $505,45; property  $949,06; receipts
during the quarter cash  $516,44; property
$478,39. 
	Disbursements: To the needy cash $309,
85;  property $380,  59;  temple cash $70,05; pro-
perty $15, 45; home industries cash $56, 09; 
books cash 14,49; building property 227,30;
Indians, merchandise $140,32; on hand cash
$344,20; property $4,891,08;  wheat 3,631
bushels.  
	This report does not include the 4th, 11th,
and 12th Wards  Salt  Lake  City  nor  Mill
Creek, East Mill Creek,  South Cottonwood,
West  Jordan, nor Mountain Dell Societies. 
These wards were not reported except South 
Cottonwood which did not arrive in time.
 Officers of Stake Organization  of  Relief
Society Salt Lake Co. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
Pres. Elmina  S.  Taylor,  and  Sarepta M.
Heywood, Counselors.  Elizabeth  Howard.
Secretary. Mariea R.  Wilcox,  Cor., Sec. 
Bathsheba W. Smith, Treasurer. 

	Report of  Primary Association of Spring
City Sanpete Co. Apr.  1,  1880. Organized
June  29th, 1979, by Sister  M. A. P. Hyde
and Counselors; Sister Ellis was chosen as
President; Sisters Hitchcock and Larson
Cousleors; Mary O. Allred Secretary;  Wm.
Barny Assistant; Flora G. Hyde Treasurer.
Have held 30 meetings;  160,  members  en-
rolled;  average  attendance  70; given  to
Temple $2,80cts; on hand 85 cts.;  4 bushels
of wheat gleaned 9lbs. of beans donated.
			MARY O. ALLRED Secretary.

	The Primary  Association  of American
Fork was  organized  October  23,  1878;
Sister Ann Rowley was appointed President,
Sisters Mary A.  Evans  and  Mary  Mott
counselors. We meet every Saturday after-
noon, at 3 o'clock. The members in at-
tendance, average from 75 to 100.
	The children have pieced  blocks,  for a
very nice quilt, and we have  given  it  as a
donation for the Temple, prized at $6,00.
 January 17th, 1880, we had our  first An-
niversary. Exercises consisted  of Recita-
tions and Singing; The Ariticles of Faith,
Restoration of the Gospel, etc. I think the
children are improving fast,  for  they  take
a great interest in  their  meetings. $3,15
worth if prizes were distributed among the 
children.
	These "Primary  Associations"  through
the blessing of "Our Heavenly Father," will
prove  a  great  benefit;  for  their young
minds are as blank paper, ready to be writ-
ten upon; and those principles  that  are
planted on their young  minds,  are not so
easily  erased for while  young  they  are as
clay, in the hands of the  potter ready to be
molded, to love and  to do the will of God.
	Hoping the Primary, and all other Asso-
ciations throughout the county will continue
to imporove, is my  earnest prayer.
	ANN ROWLEY Pres.
	MARY ELLEN SHELLEY Assist. Sec'y.
	14 years old.

	A few  items from  the Y. L. M. I. A, of
Springvile. The Society numbers 80 mem-
bers. A marked improvement is noticeable
in our meetings, and the desire to learn the
principles of the Gospel, and the duties andprivileges of the gentler  sex  is  demon-
strated by the interest manifested by many
of our sisters both young and old. We hold
weekly meedings of the Society also monthly
conjoint meetings with the Y. M. M. I. A.,
all of which  are spoken highly of, and the 
spirit prevailing at the same is commended
by the authorities of the ward.
	At our annual meeting  which  was held
March 15th the officers of  the  society were
re-elected by a unanimous vote; and the en-
tertainment  given  on  that  occasion will
long be  remembered  by  those  who were
present, to the number of 4 or 500 persons. 
The society have a library  of  47 volumes. 
We also have  some  wheat and  other  pro-
perty on hand. We have paid $25,00  this
winter towards  land  upon  which  to  raise
mulberry trees for  the  production  of silk.
The desire of the society is to be  useful  in
instructing the women  of  our  communtiy
in all good works, and to assist our brethren
who bear the holy Priesthood  in  preparing
the Saints for the advent  of  our  Lord and
Savior Jesus Christ. I subscribe myself
your sister in  the covenant of peace,
			CLARY SNOW, Cor. Sec'y.
	Springville, Apr.  18, 1880. 

	The Relief Society of Clarkston held their 
annual meeting on Thursday the 15th, of
April our worthy Bishop  John  Jardine and
a few of the brethren met  with  us; also
Bro.  Wm.  Griffin  Counselor  to  Bishop
Rigby of Newton and some of the  leading
sisters of that place attended.
 The meeting was addressed by the fol-
lowing named sisters and  brethren. Pres.
Mary Griffin, her two Counselors, Ann Keep
and Sarah Carbine; Marinda Jardine  Pres


asked the children by Sister E. R. Snow;
all the questions were answered promptly.
The Lord's Prayer was then repeated in
concert by them, after which they sang
"Redeemer of Israel."
	The minutes of the last meeting of each
ward, together with a report thereof, were
read by the Secretary of each society.
	The reports exhibited gratifying results,
both of the financial prosperity and religious
interest.
	President Taylor then addressed the au-
dience, directing his remarks mostly to the
children. When the Lord Jesus was upon
the earth, the children crowded around
him, and when they were told to retreat by
His disciples, Jesus said, "Suffer little chil-
dren to come unto me, for of such is the
kingdom of Heaven." Thus He showed
that He loved little children. He loved
them still, and when they were good He
would hear their prayers, and answer them,
though in person He was not with them on
the earth.
	Apostle F. D. Richards read; at the re-
quest of Pres. Taylor, a passage from the
8th chapter of Nephi, where Jesus com-
manded the people on this continent to
bring their children together that He might
bless them, and the signs which took place
in the heavens after this blessing.
	Pres. Taylor desired this passage read to
show how well Jesus loved little children.
The Lord had revealed His will to Joseph
the prophet regarding the principles He
wished observed by the people of the earth;
the Elders had brought our parents to the 
truth, and upon the children would soon
rest the responsibility of carrying on the
work of their parents; therefore they
should be good and kind, and avoid being
harsh and of a lighting nature, in order to
prepare themselves for the work before
them.
	Sister E. R. Snow, by the unanimous re-
quest of the children, next spoke, relating
stories whose morals showed that the pray-
ers of the Elders will heal the sick, also
that carefulness is a necessity in becoming
great,
	Sister Zina D. Young asked a number of
questions regarding interesting items to
the children, and told them to remember
the passage:

"Count that day lest
	Whose low descending sun
Views from thy hand
	No worthy action done."

	Sister Richards Apostle F. D. Richards,
Elder L. J. Herrick, and President D. H.
Peery then followed with pleasing remarks
to the children, each narrating some anec-
dote or story to impress upon their minds
the necessity of obedience, honesty, right-
eousness and truth in all their actions in
life.
	After singing, Sister Zina D. Young dis-
missed by prayer, and the large congrega-
tion dispersed, all going home happy and 
contented with what they had heard, seen
and learned.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LETTER TO THE SISTERS.

	MY DEAR SISTERS.—For several months
past I have been assisting in taking care of 
an aged sister, also in working at my busi-
ness (millinery); altogether my time has
been so taken up that I have been obliged
to stay away from many of our meetings,
yet I can assure you I am still one with you
in the faith of the Everlasting Gospel, re-
vealed in this dispensation for the salvation
of the human race.
	Our beloved sister having now passed be-
yond the portals of the tomb, to rejoin her
loved ones, I feel a little more at liberty,
and will at least be more punctual in the
future to answer my correspondents in va-
rious parts of the Territory, and will be
pleased to hear from any of my friends,
and shall feel cheered to hear of their pro-
gress in the good work. I realize that we
as a people are passing through what may
be termed the "narrows," and the narrow-
est, or most trying ordeals" are yet before
us! I often ponder over the question, "Are
we preparing ourselves" for the eventful
ful period close at hand? "If we are not,"
we should begin at once to live our religion
and watch ourselves very closely, seek to
understand the will of God concerning us
individually, and then earnestly try to carry
out his designs by every word, thought and
act, or we shall be accounted unprofitable
servants.
	The Lord is very merciful to us. He has
warned and forewarned us, through his ser-
vants from time to time, and yet we neglect
our duties and consider our temporal wel-
fare as of more importance. "Who is there"
that attended Conference, and heard the
words of inspiration that flowed from the
mouth of our beloved President, and felt
the power of God that accompanied every
word, but felt the necessity of searching
their own hearts and asking, "Is it I?"
"Am I keeping the commandments of God?
Am I trying to govern myself, and shun
the evils that flesh is heir to? Am I seek-
ing to live worthily before the Lord and his
servants, or am I giving way to the evils
and follies of the world, and living a life of 
hypocrisy and deceit?
	Salvation is personal; it is our own acts

[Column 2]

that will either save or destroy us. No one
can rob us of our salvation through preju-
dice; slander, or falsehood; He who knows
the secrets of all hearts will be our final
Judge. There will be no "favoritism," no
enemy can whisper a word or two, through
jealousy, or envy, and poison the mind of
our Heavenly Father, and deprive us of our
just reward!
	Then let us shake off lethargy, be awake
to every duty, root out the tares sown in
our hearts by our common enemy, forgive
each other even as we hope to be forgiven;
be gentle, patient and forbearing toward
each other, yet firm in right and righteous-
ness; never be guilty of slander, never,
never stoop so low as to utter aught con-
cerning each other that is untrue in any
particular, or that will fall upon our sisters
like a withering blight; true, God will not
let them suffer long under unjust injuries,
but those who are guilty of committing the
wrong will be the ones to snffer the penalty,
besides losing the confidence of those they
injure.
	There  are many things that we, the
daughters of Zion, must put down, before
we can have the blessings of God upon us,
amongst them is the folly, or evil, of for-
tune telling. We find in holy writ there is
a curse pronounced on those who practice
it and lead others to do so. But say some,
"We only do it for fun, we do not put any
faith in it." So much the more reason to
stop it, and spend no more of our time and
money in that which profiteth nothing but
sorrow. I have known sisters to make
themselves miserable over what had been
told them, or what they imagined they had
seen in the tea-grounds.
	We find the Lord speaking through his
prophet, Isaiah, 8th chap, 19th and 20th
verses.
	"And when they shall say unto you, Seek
unto them that have familiar spirits, and
wizards that peep and mutter, should not a
people seek unto their God? To the law
and to the testimony: if they speak not ac-
cording to this word, it is because there is
no light in them."
	How careful should we be, then, to train
our children in the ways of the Lord, and
not set an example before them that will
take them into by and forbidden paths, that
lead to destruction. Let us try to mend our
ways and lead our children to serve God
and enquire of Him in the hour of need, as
did the holy women of old. For the Lord
is our Judge, the Lord is our Law-giver,
the Lord is our King; He will save us if
we faithfully serve Him. Then let us
never weary in well-doing, never be afraid
to testify before the world and each other,
what we know pertaining to the principles
of eternal life. I know this is the work
of God in which we are engaged; I have
known it beyond a doubt from my girlhood.
I know that the gifts and blessings are with
those who live worthy of them; and if we
were to exercise more faith in God, our
sick would be healed, and so many of our
little ones would not be taken from us; we
should not call on doctors so often; when it
is really necessary, then let it be a doctor of
our own faith, that the blessing of God may
attend their labors.
	I have always believed in the order of
plural, or celestial marriage, long before I
was a member of this Church; I learned it
from  the  Scriptures. Since  joining the
Church I know it to be of God, and I would 
earnestly beseech my sisters never to trifle
or tamper with it; far better for them to be
silent concerning it, unless tney really have
a testimony for themselves, and have
strength enough to entirely rely upon  the

[Column 3]

Lord, and have an earnest desire to live ac-
cording to the sacred principles that God
has revealed, irrespective of their own per-
sonal feelings or gratification.
	Let us each and every one, from this
time forth, resolve that by God's help we
will try to set ourselves and our children
right. How easy will it be for the father
of a family to govern his household, where
each individual has learned to govern him-
self. How pleasant and gratifying it would
be to our Bishops, Presidents of Stakes, and
to the Authorities whom God has placed to
preside over us. We should then become
of one heart and one mind, and the God of 
Israel would be our God, and we should
really be to Him a people. He will bless
and protect all who put their trust in Him;
He will frustrate the  designs of our ene-
mies, and put to naught the wisdom of
man.
	ELIZABETH  DAVIS.


A MASS MEETING

For all Women who want to vote, will be
	held at Farwell Hall, 148 Madison St., be-
	tween Clark and La Salle Street, Chicago,
	Ill., Wednesday, June 2d, 1880, at 10 A.
	M., 2.30 and 8 P. M.

	Every woman in the United States who
sees or hears of this call is most earnestly
invited to be present at this meeting. If
this is impossible, she is urged to send a
letter or postal, with her name and wish
expressed in her briefest and strongest
manner, addressed to
		ELIZABETH CADY STANTON,
				President N. W. S. A.,
	Care 476 West Lake St., Chicago, Ill.
	Letters or Postals certain to reach Chicago
on June 2d, can be addressed Farwell Hall.
	Now let us receive at least twenty thou-
sand postals, and let them be sent in ample
time to reach our meeting at Farwell Hall
in season.
	The best speakers in the United States
will be present. Our delegates will pro-
ceed from this meeting to the Republican
Nominating Convention, to present our de-
mand for their insertion of the following
plank.
	Resolved, That the right of suffrage in-
heres in the citizen of the United States
and we pledge ourselves to secure protec-
tion in the exercise of this right to all cit-
izens, irrespective of sex, by an amend-
ment to the National Constitution.
	Let us meet together and by overwhelm-
ing force of numbers show our earnestness
and our determination to secure for our-
selves the acknowledged right of self-
government.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
			Vice-Pres. at Large, N. W. S. A.
		MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,
	Chairman Excutive Com. N. W. S. A.
All papers friendly to woman's demands
are requested to copy this call. Women
are everywhere urged to give it wide cir-
culation.


PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS' QUAR-
TERLY CONFERENCE AT OGDEN.

		March, 19, 1880 2 P. M.
	The service opened by singing, "In our
lovely Deseret," by the children. By the
request of the children, prayer was offered
by President John Taylor.
	After singing, a number of interesting
questions concerning religious matters were


a. m., three hours after giving birth to a daugh-
ter, Lovina Esther Beal, wife of John A. Beal,
and daughter of Freeborn and Anna Demill.
	Deceased was born May 13, 1843, in Nauvoo,
Hancock Co., Ill., and was the mother of elev-
en children, seven of whom are left to mourn
her loss.						H. S. M.


184		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

			BRIGHAM CITY, ARIZONA,
						April 11, 1880.

	EDITOR EXPONENT.—The twentieth
number of your truly excellent paper came
to the Saints in this far-off land, freighted
with a feast for the mind, which is enjoyed
by the sisters in our little settlement, isolat-
ed as we are from the majority of the Saints,
with a zest rarely enjoyed in any other
way. And while perusing it I was noticing


the piece entitled "Witty people," which
contains many excellent ideas, and, I was
reminded we all have a place,

"The sober and sad,
The merry and glad;"

each has her respective nook, or corner,
where, if disposed, she may do some good.
	Cheerfulness and charity go hand in hand;
you rarely see one without the other; and
the more of both we have mixed with the
home-influence of the mother, the happier
her home. Her cheerfulness is always felt
by her children, and generally appreciated,
too, and innocent mirth, whether in sallies
of wit, playful repartee, or frolicsome antics
by the little ones, should never be harshly
reprimanded by her, but guided and re-
strained, if necessary, with a firm hand,
that none but a loving mother can rightly
hold, and which need never leave traces of
sadness or gloom. A cheerful spirit is as
necessary to the development of the mind
of a child as wholesome food for its body.
							M. E. W.


THERE are  said to be 20,000  children in
Chicago  who  get  no  schooling  whatever
and 7000  in  the  schools  who  for  lack  of
proper  accommdations  can  only  be  taught
half a day. This is not a pleasant report of
a city which prides itself of "Western pro-
gress.


[Column 1]
WARNER'S 
[image] SAFE
BITERS
	﻿It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the 
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
nious and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
[image] SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC NERVINE PILLS
READ SAVE THYSELF
☞ Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N.Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX' 541.

NEW SPRING STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties, Cu[---]anCollars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions
boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR

A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT-
LER, Agent of the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-Made
Blankets,	Brown Yarn,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimeres,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, &c.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
							JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading [-]huttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGEtS.
75, 77, & 79 First South St. S. CL.


WOMAN'S 			EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the  Women  of  Zion, and  the  Rights  of  the  Women of all  Nations.
