VOL. 8.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1880.		No. 15.


[For the EXPONENT.
ADDRESS TO THE CLOSING YEAR.

Ah! drifting time, thou stayest not,
	But ever swiftly passeth by;
Our prayers, our tears, thou heedest not,
	While noiseless thou dost onward fly.
Unerring time! thy hand doth trace
	Alike all good or evil done;
Thy work can never be effaced,
	For thou dost never backward turn.

Another year! how swiftly flown,
	O precious portion of our time!
How rapid roll the waves along,
	To that unknown unchanging clime.
How like the meteor's flashing light,
	Have been our dreams of earthly bliss;
How dare we hope for days more bright,
	More blest than we have known in this.

Ah! glorious visions of the mind,
	How soon, alas! ye disappear;
Each glowing tint and vivid line
	Fade with the closing, dying year.
A joy, a sorrow, smile and sigh
	Are ours, while yet we linger here;
So hath it been in days gone by,
	So will it be the coming year.

But hope will not forsake us now,
	It hath a mission more benign;
We sigh our requiem to the year,
	We bid farewell to '79.
Another song with joy we chant,
	To usher in the new-born year;
Sweet hope is ours, and heartfelt thanks
	We'll raise to Him who guards us here.

We greet with faith the year just born;
	Though cares and conflicts it may bring,
With trustful prayer we'll still hope on,
	And welcome now the "New Year" in.
And oh! we ask that this may prove
	the happiest, best our earth has known;
That greater knowledge be diffused,
	And less of wrong and evil done.

May Gospel truth o'er land and sea
	An influence give ne'er known before,
Pale Superstition, Bigot [---]
	Fall powerless, to rise no more;
May Temperance hold a mighty sway,
	Its banners wave from shore to shore;
Millions, made glad, shout victory's song—
	The reign of "Demon Drink" is o'er.

Echoed on all the wings of heaves.
	Borne out on every breeze that blows;
From the bright-glowing zone of fire,
	To the far circle of the snows;
Let the glad song roll round the spheres.
	'Till it shall reach the Golden age,
Where Truth shall reign "a thousand years,"*
	With nought to blacken freedom's page.

							L. M. HEWLINGS.
*Referring to prophecy.


[Column 1]
NEW YEAR'S DAY.

PAST AND PRESENT.

	Once a spring day, the 25th of March,
crowned the year. The stern winter had
passed, with its cold, dreary days, its icicles
had melted and were seen no more, the
brooks had burst their icy bands, and once
more danced, laughing musically, upon
their way; the first birds of Spring had
made their appearance, caroling their notes
of joy; the lovely, hardy flowers peeped
up in the woodlands; the sun shone warm,
and all nature rejoiced in the glad holiday.
Spring and the New Year were one.

	Time sped on—a change was proposed.
Men thought about it, talked about it,
made the time fly backward, and the 1st of

[Column 2]
January, 1716, was proclaimed New Year's
day.
	Them the New Year's peal rang out upon
the frosty air, while the beautiful bright
stars burned in the depths above. Since
then, snow, frost and ice have held domin-
ion, and locked the New York in their
freezing embrace; the sun has looked down
coldly from his far-away throne; no flowers
grace the landscape, for, kissed by frosty
lips, they blackened and died; birds have
sung us an adieu and flown to fairer climes;
the winds are chill, and in their wild, rush-
ing notes sing the requiem of the year;
pendant icicles hang from the houses, but
warmth, and light, and glee are within;
hearts beat happily, and cold is defied; gifts
are many; flying feet beat time to merry
music, and New Year's Day is as gay now
as when, in the olden time, the winds of
March heralded its approach. This is the
New Year as it was, and as it is.

	To-night time is passing with its noise-
less step, bringing the finale of another
year—the end of this small period of time,
that has brought to some sorrow and to
some gladness. How many hearts are at
this moment beating with some bitter sor-
row, spoken or unspoken? And how many
at this time are filled with bright anticipa-
tions of the future, reveling in its fancied
blissfulness, while the present is filled with
sweet happiness?

	The coming year, whose approach is so
near, glides silently upon us, waking no
sleeper, and known to none but sleepless
watchers, as they keep their vigils in honor
of its coming. They, they alone welcome
the invisible as its fresh young breath is
felt, and feel that the old year has passed
with the last stroke of "the knell of time."
That knell heralds the new comer. Un-
seen, the New Year has taken the place of
the old, and we are one year nearer the end
of time, one year nearer the end of our ex-
istence, and one year nearer the coming of
Christ. What will it bring to us, joy or
grief, pleasure or pain? We have not
power to gaze into futurity and know what
awaits us. If we knew the bitter we would
have to drink, we would shrink from the
draught ere it touched our lips. When un-
known sorrows come upon us, an unseen,
mighty power buoys up the spirit and en-
ables us to pass through trials, that if we
had known they had to be endured, would
have embittered our existence. Anticipat-
ed happiness loses the keen edge of enjoy-
ment, because the mind has overdrawn the
picture, and the reality is less than the
ideal.

	The dark moments speed on, the morn-
ing comes, and the cold air resounds with
Happy New Years.

	May this be a Happy New Year to one
and all, old and young, married and single,
youth and maiden, parents and children.

					EMILY B. SPENCER.


NOTES AND NEWS

	THE Manchester election, England, Nov.
14, run six unsectarian candidates—five, in-
cluding Miss Bec[-]er, being members of the


expiring board, and one working men's
candidate. The whole six were returned,
Miss Becker receiving the largest number
of votes except one. Votes polled for Miss
Becker, 22,692; Mr. Briley, Chairman of
the Board, 25,171.

	IN Leeds the Liberal party had eight can-
didates; only three were elected; one of
these was Mrs. Buckton.

	MANCHESTER National Society for Wo-
men's Suffrage held their general annual
meeting in Manchester, Nov. 12; Alder-
man Bennett presiding. Among those
mentioned as occupying the platform were
Members of Parliament, Reverends, and
celebrated women workers. In the remarks
given in the "Woman's Suffrage Journal"
of their speeches, considerable is said of a
deputation to wait upon the Chancelor of
the Exchequer and the Prime Minister.
They have tried bringing in the question
by Members of Parliament, and now they
mean Government shall take the responsi-
bility.

	IT is proposed that a Memorial to Her
Majesty's Government shall be presented in
the early part of next year, from women
who possess the statutory qualification for a
vote, praying that they may be enfranchised
before the general election. The following
is suggested as the form of this Memo-
rial:—

	"That the Memorialists respectfully sub-
mit that they are entitled to the Parlia-
mentary franchise on the same grounds of
expediency and justice as those on which
they have been admitted to the municipal
franchises.
	"That the experience of the action of
women in the discharge of the trusts of the
municipal vote warrants their claim to be-
come Parliamentary voters.
	"That they therefore submit their claim
to be admitted on the conditions that have
been approved by experience, and they re-
spectfully urge that they should be enfran-
chised before another general election, so
that in consulting the judgment of the na-
tion their wishes and opinions might be
heard, and allowed their due weight if[-]
questions affecting their interest and well
being as taxpayers and subjects of the
Crown."
	It is intended that a deputation of ladies
shall be appointed to present the Memorial
in person soon after the opening of Parlia-
ment. Ladies who are owners or occupiers
of property which would entitle them to
the Parliamentary vote, and who desire to
sign the Memorial, are requested to com-
municate with Miss Becker, 28 Jackson's
Row, Albert Square, Manchester.—"Wo-
man's Suffrage Journal."


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS LILLIAN WHITING, on the editorial
staff of the Cincinnati Commercial stays at
her post until eleven o'clock at night, and
is then accompanied to a horse-car which
passes the door and leaves her at her own
home. Miss Whiting looks the picture of
strong, healthy, fresh young life. She en-
joys her intellectual work, and has proved
that a woman can do well on a daily paper.


144		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PHILANTHROPY.

	How beautiful is philanthropy! and how
sublime must be the emotions of those rare
souls who are willing to do and to suffer all
things for the sake of their fellow-creatures!
But what shall we say of those who cant
about philanthropy solely to cover up their
gross selfishness, and who pursue their own
evil ends under pretense of serving others?
	Were it not that they contrive to be very
much in the way of better people, we could
afford to pass them in silence, as be-
neath contempt; but since the young and
unsophisticated in Zion need to be set on
their guard, we must honor a certain class
of persons with some discussion.
	I cannot better illustrate the case under
consideration than by giving the substance
of a conversation between a lady friend of
mine and several of the self-styled Liberals
of Utah. This lady is a real business char-
acter, having mastered one or two regular
professions. Having had business transac-
tions with all classes of people, having had
personal experience in many of the artificial
as well as the natural disabilities of woman,
she was quite prepared to arrive at a just
estimate of the value of the flimsy pre-
tensions of those who come from a distance
to espouse the cause of "the down-trodden
women of Utah."
	These gentlemen themselves urged, the
conversation, as if they hoped to convince
her that she was "downtrodden" and in
need of their kind sympathies and kinder
services.
	"You must know, Mrs." (I will say)
"Smith, it is the duty of every freeman,
not only to enjoy our free institutions in his
own person, but to help others to enjoy
them even by resisting oppressors, as we
gave liberty to the negroes by fighting their
masters. You know polygamy is the other
twin, and because its slaves are all women
only makes it the nobler to espouse their
cause."
	Mrs. S. "Then that is the mission of you
Liberals to Utah—to champion the ladies?"
	Liberal. "Yes; although they are the
majority, the male minority have every-
thing their own way; and since that is
contrary to both the spirit and the letter of
Republican laws, it must be stopped. Why,
they have even legislated away the widow's
right of dower."
	Mrs. S. "Yes, I know they have; but
they have enacted better Iaws instead."
	Liberal. "Nay, Madam, how can that be
called a better law which divides inheri-
tance in a man's estate equally between his
lawful children and a set of hangers-on who
can claim only an unlawful relationship with
him?"
	Mrs. S. "What, in the name of justice,
would you have?"
	Liberal. "We would have a man's only
true and lawful wife enjoy her just right to
one-third of his estate, and the rest to go
to her children, their father's only true and
lawful heirs.
	Mrs. S. "Ah, yes; you would debar from
inheritance all later wives and children.
That sounds liberal with a vengeance; for
nobody can deny that one child is as closely
related to its father as another, not to men-
tion the status you would give their moth-
ers. And besides, that wretched dowry
law, I take it, was originally only a lame
compromise with conscience, by which men
sought to justify themselves for robbing
their wives of all that was justly theirs as
long as they, the husbands, lived, merely
by giving back part of it at death. And
the other two-thirds of the joint estate the
law gives to the man's own relatives—fail-

[Column 2]
ing children of his own—if it all originally
belonged to the woman. That, you see, is
very kind—to men. But the law of inher-
itance of ours, with which you find so much
fault, refers to the fathers individual pro-
perty, and does not involve, at a man's
death, any property of which individual
wives may be absolute owners in their own
right; such right as few women elsewhere
enjoy."
	Liberal. "That is all a chimera about wo-
men holding property of their own. If
they had any at first, their husbands would
contrive to pass it all into their own pockets
sooner or later."
	Mrs. S. "So you judge; but I could, if I
chose, find documentary proof that men's
several wives do hold their own property
secure from even testamentary disposal by
their husbands; and I also know that the
husbands wish it so for the further security
of their younger groups of children. But
what else would you have in the interest of
reform?"
	Liberal. "We would have repealed or
annulled those farcial election laws by
which a man polls his own vote and—say
half a dozen others, by letting his so-called
wives drop them into the box for him."
	Mrs. S. "You seem to hold a foregone
conclusion that they always vote according
to his wishes and not their own."
	Liberal. "That is plain upon the very
face of things, for the Mormons seldom
have more than one candidate in the field,
so that there is no room for individual
choice; and then as long as a woman calls a
man her husband. it is really her bounden
Christian duty to obey him. So this law
giving women the ballot is just a counter-
part of that in the South which gave a
slave-holder an extra vote for every so-many
slaves— thus compelling the poor slaves to
assist in riveting their own fetters;—with
this difference, the Mormon slaveholders
get an additional vote for every one. We
would curtail the evil by taking away all
these extra votes."
	Mrs. S. "Oh, you would curtail the power
of the men by taking away the suffrage
from the women, on your bare assumption
that they do not please themselves as well
as their husbands in their voting. You
would take away from them the great boon
for which the women in the States, whence
you came, have been anxiously and vainly
striving for half a lifetime—a boon which
the men of Utah, of their own free will,
conferred upon their slaves, as you politely
term them; and you restore the puerile
right of dower by taking away from women
the right to own property in their own
name; you would subjugate the majority
(women) to the minority (men) because
they are married; you would brand large
numbers of women and their children with
disgrace, and relieve their husbands and
fathers of all responsibility for them, be-
cause you choose to say they are not mar-
ried—and all this you would do in the
name of protection for women! Why don't
you show your liberal minds by giving your
own mothers, sisters and wives those privi-
leges which they so much desire, instead of
seeking to take away ours?"
	Liberal. "In our opinion it would be an
injury rather than a benefit to women to
drag them down from their heights of pu-
rity to mingle in the filthy pool of politics."
	Mrs. S. "Then your opinion is to be their
law? Your seem to forget that the negroes
would still be slaves, had the opinions of
their masters retained that degree of po-
tency. You believe it wrong for negroes
to obey white people, but right for women
to obey men; and yet because you fear the

[Column 3]
women of Utah obey too well, you wish to
deprive them of the means of indepen-
dence which their husbands have put into
their hands; and you would contrive to
prevent a man from acknowledging all his
children and honoring all his wives even in
his will."
	Liberal. "But you persist in classing, all
the women as wives, when many of them
are only living in open shame. We wish,
for woman's own sake, to get laws not
only passed, but enforced, to put a stop to
this wholesale moral degradation of wo-
men."
	Mrs. S. "And dare you talk to us of mor-
als and degradation, when right under the
stars and stripes men have passed laws, and
are still seeking for more laws, to license
the ruin of women body and soul by men?
To register by name and number, and keep
under most inhuman 'regulations' the vic-
tims of men's most atrocious crime, while
screening, justifying and leaving at full lib-
erty the perpetrators. If this is not 'drag-
ging women down from their heights of
purity' and 'treading them down' in the
mire do not tell me what would be. And
yet, in view of these things and your own
outspoken sentiments, you come here wish-
ing to hurl large numbers of now respected
women into the same reeking pit, and call
yourselves champions of women! Do you
think we are blind?"
	Liberal. "My dear Mrs. Smith, you are
too severe on us personally. We did not
pass those laws, nor even help to do it;
can you thus hold us responsible personally
for measures which men, perhaps wiser than
we, have deemed advisable? We are here
now, and is it not right for us to do all we
can to correct existing evils?"
	Mrs. S "I do hold you responsible for
what your 'wiser' men have done and are
still doing. I venture the assertion that
not one of you ever voted against those
measures; you express yourselves opposed
to allowing women to vote against them for
themselves, because you rightly call them
'filthy;' But you have these burning pits
of destruction yawning wide at home, and
come here to [--]form institutions which are
not evil when judged by the standard of
their moral effects on society, but only in
the code of your opinions. We Mormon
women know a few things for ourselves,
and so far as we are concerned, your re-
formers have cordial leave to retire.'
	I would they might, in every individual
instance, meet with such prompt unmask-
ing; and if they must be missionaries, let
them continue to send Bibles to the heath-
en as the least harm they can do. But it
would be better far to give their women at
home justice, and befriend the hundreds,
nay thousands, of depraved vagabond chil-
dren roaming the streets of their monog-
amic cities.
							L. L. D.


WE take pleasure in announcing the mar-
riage of our young relative, O. F. Whitney,
Bishop of the 18th Ward of this city, to Miss
Zina Smoot, an interesting and intelligent
young lady, daughter of Mayor A. O. Smoot of
Provo. The marriage ceremony was performed
in this city,  Thursday, Dec. 18, 1879, by Pres
D. H. Wells.  We extend our most fervent
congratulations to the young couple, who are
now fairly launched on the sea of matrimony,
and hope their voyage over life's sea may be a
pleasant and prosperous one; and that their
life may prove rich in all the experiences that
tend to the full est development of the heart's
affections, and the highest happiness here
and hereafter.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IRELAND—INFELIX.

		BY HANNAH T. KING.

"Flow'r of the earth! and first gem of the sea!"
Who would not weep o'er thy sorrows and thee?
Chivalrous nation, and land of the muse,
The warm tear of sympathy who can refuse?

Country of Wellington! Birthplace of Moore!
Land of great Statesmen, both now and of yore!
I know not thy politics, matters of state,
But I weep for the wret[-]hed—I weep for their fate!

I know there are hearts in that suffering land
Whose impulses stretch out the warm, ready hand,
And shower their bounties wherever they go,
O'er the dwellings of wretchedness, famine and woe!

And shall not their prayers and their almsdeeds ascend
To the throne of the Mighty, pale misery's Friend?
Shall not "the ten righteous" suspend in the hand
The rod of destruction that threatens the land?

We read, in the days that have long passed away,
In the page that's illumed by Divinity's ray—
There we read, in the gap did humanity stand,
Averting the vengeance of Heaven's own hand!

He works but by means, and His own mighty Son
His example bequeathed us—to do as He's done!
Let a true Curistian spirit then light up each heart,
To the "one more than kin" let each strive to impart

A ray of that sun which so brightly has shown
On the land of our birth, from the cot to the throne—
The blest "sun of righteousness" beaming on all,
To enfranchise the soul from sin's powerful thrall

Were the Spirit of Christ the support of a throne,
War, and bloodshed, and anarchy all would disown;
Let this Spirit direct and all discord will cease,
And bind all in unity, friendship and peace.


﻿OPENING OF FIRTH-COLLEGE.
		BY HANNAH T. KING.
	It is most refreshing to hear of public
benefactions from those who abound in the
wealth of  this  world.  A  Commoner of
England, Mr. Mark Firth, of Sheffield, four
years ago gave a large tract of land for a
spacious park, for the enjoyment, the health,
and the amusement of the good people of
Sheffield, and which was opened in due
form  by  the  Prince  of  Wales  in person
	The same gentleman  has  since  given
land, upon which he has had built a college
for the higher education  of  both boys and
girls. - "It has cost £20,000, and in addition
to that sum  Mr.  Firth  has  given £5,000
towards 'the endowment  fund. Nearly
£15,000 has been raised to found scholar-
ships, and it is believed that the endow-
ment fund will soon reach £25,000. There
have been 4,000 students under the univer-
sity extension scheme since its foundation
in Sheffield, and 550  certificates have  been
granted to local students, one-half of these
being first class.  The gift of Firth College
will be of the greatest value as a help to
the spread of university education, for its
free lecture and class rooms will relieve
those interested in higher education from
the financial burden of providing suitable
accommodation.  The college is part of a
block of buildings, offices of the Sheffield
School Board, who have built, in the same
range of buildings as the Firth College and
their own offices, very fine central schools
for boys and girls, and these are designed
to give to the picked pupils from other
schools a higher and, possibly, a technical
education.  The whole of the principasl ed-
ucational machinery of the town is conse-
quently located in one range of buildings,
of which First College is the chief feature.
The principal of the college is Mr. A. T.
Bentley, recently  Fielden  Lecturer at
Owens-College, Manchester."
	"Men who with great wealth at their dis-
posal, elect to spend it in mere sumptuous-
ness and luxury, are repaid, indeed by ad-
miration from certain persons and of a cer-
tain kind.  But how far richer is the re-
ward of those who, after spending what is
needed to maintain with dignity their place
in society, devote the remainder towards
furthering the happiness of their fellow-
men! Far-off generations shall rise up and
call such men blessed, and the names they
leave behind them shall be ranked with
such names as those of Peabody in London,
of Owens at Manchester, of Mason at Bir-
mingham, of Firth at Sheffield.  There will
naturally be the intellectual benefits which
invariably attend the progress of learning,
philosophy, and general culture, the open-
ing out of new realms of thought and of
pleasure which the ignorant cannot know.
But another, and as it seems to me, an
equally valuable effect of that culture, is to
make us shrink from and hate all that is
vulgar and false, and to prefer pure and
simple pleasures, such as are open to all and
can never be exhausted by any, to ostenta-
tion, vanity, and self-indulgence. Such, I
venture to think must have been Mr. Firth's
feeling when he presented your town with
a park before presenting it with a college.
He must have desired above all things to
give the children who are compelled in this
busy city to pass many hours each day
amidst dark and gloomy surroundings an
opportunity of learning from nature those
lessons which are the rightful inheritance
of childhood, and without which no man
can be said to have had his fair chance in
the world.  Let it never be said, then, that
it is necessary in any city for children to
forego these innocent pleasures."
	A mighty mass of people were congre-
gated to see the opneing of the college, es-
pecially as it was announced that Prince
Leopold would open it.  Prince Leopold is a
very modest, retiring young man.  He
seems to have started out young in life to
do good; it is said he desires to enter the
church. He has feeble health, and this may
have been the cause of his meditative and
serious turn of mind: he made a feeling
and suitable address, a few words of which
I quote:
	"It is impossible for me not to feel how
small is the part which I have been called
upon to play in the work which has re-
ceived  consummation  to-day, compared
with the labors of those who have fostered
and watched over its progress from the com-
mencement.  But at the same time it is an
undeniable pleasure to me to have been as-
sociated even in a slight  degree with this
great work of Mr. Firth's.  I have already
to-day had occasion in another place to
make some allusion to Mr. Firth's claims on
our good wishes and affectionate sympathy,
and I shall perhaps best consult his feelings
by not entering in his presence on any elab-
orate eulogium on his good deeds.  I have
already visited this morning the alms-
houses which he has built, and I look for-
ward this afternoon to visiting in his com-
pany the park which he has laid out.  In
the former place I saw him surrounded by
the aged folk whose declining years are
being soothed and made happy by his con-
siderate forethought—and when I see scat-
tered throughout the park men, women
and children who, by this gift, are enabled
to escape from the close atmosphere of the
town and all the temptations of a great
city, to breathe awhile purer air, and to in-
dulge in harmless recreation, I shall more
fully realize the inward joy which he must
experience.  If our good wishes can in how-
ever small a degree add to this well-earned
you of his, I beg to assure Mr. Firth, both
on your part and on my own, that we most
cordially and heartily tender them to him."

****
At the close of his address he put down
$5,000 as his donation to the college fund,
paid out of his own private income.  This
seems to me to be most exemplary, and
worthy of all imitation, especially by the 
young. This young Prince has been reared
in luxury, that to the uninitiated would
appear almost fabulous; yet he voluntarily
opnes his eyes and takes a common sense
view of life as it is—past, present and to
come.  Instead of spending his wealth in
folly, or worse, he bequeaths it to noble in-
stitutions, that will benefit mankind and
produce a mighty progression.  I must now
give a few words from the great benefactor,
Mark Firth.
	"Mr. Mark Firt, who was received with
loud cheers, said: May it please your Royal
Highness—The object contemplated in the
erection of the college which your Royal
Highness has graciously consented to open-
this day, is to provide in a systematic and
permanent form certain educational means
and facilities for promoting the intellectual,
moral and social elevation of the inhabitants
of this town.  A great want, too, has been
a public building with the requisite means
and appliances for the work to be done.
Impressed deeply with this want, I have
thought I could not more serviceably appro-
priate a portion of that wealth which, by
the blessing of Almighty God, I have been
privileged to acquire, than by erecting and
presenting to my native town the building
in which they are now assembled as a local
habitation for the college.  It has given me
very great pleasure to do this.  The build-
ing comprises lecture hall, class rooms,
rooms for lectures and other needful accom-
modation, with the necessary fittings, for
a complete system of education such as
has been just indicated.  It has already been
legally settled on trust for the use of the
inhabitants of this town and neighborhood
for ever.  I desire personally to thank your
Royal Highness for the honor of your pres-
ence on this the occasion of its opening,
and all the more because of the deep inter-
est your Royal Highness is known to take
in the objects to which it is henceforth to
be devoted; and I now beg respectfully to
place in the hands of your Royal Highness
the deed of gift of this building, with the
earnest prayer that it may be the means of
helping forward in some degree for ages
to come the great work of a large and ever-
advancing education in this our town of
Sheffield."
	At a future time I would like to make
another extract from the Prince's address,
as his views are liberal and extended.  He
pointedly, speaking of the young taking
degrees in the college, says, "Will proceed
to take his or her degree with honor," &c.,
and adds, "I say designedly his or her de-
gree, for your college is open equally to
girls as to boys."  This sounds well from
the mouth of an influential Prince, and that
Prince a young man.


FOREFATHERS' Day was duly celebrate[-] in
the city of Boston with ladies in attendance.
This i[-] as it should be; the Woman's Journal
says when foremothers have their share in the
title of the day, women will have their share
in its exercises.
	MRS. Belva Lockwood of Washington, a
lady of talent and education, who distinguished
herself by gaining admission to practice before
the Supreme Court of the United States, has
now been admitted to practice in the U. S.
Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.
	SMALL boy to his mamma: "I do pity poo[-]
Mr. Brown, 'cause he has no wi[-]e to split his
wood for him."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS. - - - - Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpare[-]l space, one
time, $[-].00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 1, 1880.


[Column 1]
THOUGHTS ON THE NEW YEAR.

	The old year has past. The echo of its fare-
well bells has just died out. It has finished
up its record, and whether the contributors
who furnished the material for the great vol-
ume time has written during the year that is
gone, have done their work faithfully, or oth-
erwise, it is now too late to change it, review
it carefully as they may. The printed pages
are sterotyped in living characters forever, by
an invisible power, and the pictures engraven,
which illustrate the subjects, will remain bright
and pleasing, or sombre and gloomy, just as
the subtle polish which time carries in his 
relentless grasp has swept over their surface.
But though we cannot recall the past, nor 
live it over again, save in memory's sweet
musings, yet there is a new, bright page pre-
sented, whereon may be inscribed a better and
nobler record; interspersed here and there with 
charming pictures, which with rainbow hues
and violet tints may leave a trailing glory o'er
the pathway of the pilgrim, that others who
have not the same vivid conceptions of the 
beautiful and true, whose sketches are not so 
perfect, yet learning the same life-lessons,
treading the selfsame pathway, may be blessed
enlightened and encouraged. The same bless-
ings are not bestowed on all, else the Savior
had not said, "to one is given five talents, to
another two, and to another one;" but unto 
whom much is given, of him much will be re-
quired.
	Behold the dawning of another new year,
promising to the earth over which Father
Time holds his silent thraldom, seed time and
harvest. And though now cold winter en-
circles those who. occupy this part of the 
globe, and the snow, like a covering of pure,
white down, lies all around, and wraps, as it
were, its wintry mantle o'er the mountain
tops and valleys below, sprinkling it with 
pearls and diamonds of frost, and ornamenting
it with icicles, yet one looks hopefully towards
Spring, assured that it will come in pristine
loveliness, with sunny skies and soft, warm
breezes, and snow and ice will melt away, and 
the birds will come back to their nests and 
pour forth the rich melody of their sweetest
songs. And men will pursue their daily avoca-
tions, and season will follow season, and the 
days succeed each other, and over and over
again will each individual soul con the simple
but sublime lessons of life.
	Here, as it were upon the very threshold of 
the year, the earnest of a new life, it is meet
that all should consider not only the past, but
the future. Time need not be spent in mourn-
ing the old while hailing the new, but as one 
sees the shadows of the old year dying out,
growing more and more indistinct, fading in

[Column 2]
the distance, the impression it awakens seems
ever one of renewed determination for the fu-
ture. To the imaginative there is a knell of 
time that is as solemn as if it were real, when
the old year takes its farewell; echoing again 
and again the remembrances of the past.
	To some the New Year, whose dawn now
lights up the horizon, may be most auspicious,
gloriously painting the East in amber and
blue and rose, reflecting the glow of these beauti-
ful colors on all the vision the future presents
to view; but there are others on whom the 
New Year's dawn sheds no such radiance; to
them it may be a gloomy, dark morning, but
if one little beam of light shows them the duty
nearest, let them take courage and struggle on,
there is light beyond, the clouds will disappear
by and by. There are promises for all given by
Him whose words never fail. Then, whether
trials press heavily or prosperity beams bright-
ly, each one should do the duty of to day,
which always brings a peaceful consciousness
to the soul.
	In the new year, whose merry bells seem
echoing through the very air, we trust there
may be great progress in good, in the promul-
gation of the principles of truth, here and in
every land. Our wish is that the Saints might
be more earnest, more dutiful, more watchful,
more devoted to the cause they have espoused
than they have hitherto been. That home
improvements of every kind  may-be greatly
increased, and practical work energetically and 
successfully carried on, that Zion may begin
to throw off the fetters which now trammel
her people, and become more independent by
making whatever is needed for home consump-
tion. That the work of education may be
zealously advanced in the right direction; that
the children of Zion may be taught in all that 
will prepare them for the great work of the 
"last days." For the Saints know that there
is a heavy responsibility resting upon them,
and that each succeeeding year is bringing 
them nearer to the great final dissolution of all
things that can be shaken; that the prepara-
tion for the advent of the Messiah, devolves
upon them, and when He comes whose right
it is to reign, that there may be a few wise vir-
gins with oil in their lamps, ready to go out to 
meet Him, and then will the new era be ush-
ered in, spoken of by the prophet, "Behold, I
make all things new."
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


REMARKS OF PRES. JOSEPH SMITH

	At a business meeting in Nauvoo as published;
in the "Times and Seasons" Nauvoo, Ill.
* * * * * *
	"Were I going to prophecy, I would say the
end will not come in 1844, 5, or 6, or 40 years,—
there are those of the rising generation who
shall not taste death till Christ comes.
	I was once praying earnestly upon this sub-
ject, and a voice said unto me, "My son, if
thou livest until thou art eighty five years of
age, thou shalt see the face of the Son of Man.'[-]
I was left to draw my own conclusions con-
cerning this, and I took the liberty to conclude
that if I did live to that time he would make
his appearance; but I do not say whether he
will make his appearance, or I shall go where
he is. I prophesy in the name of the Lord God;
and let it be written, the Son of Man will not
came in the clouds of Heaven, till I am eighty-
five years old—then read the 14th chapter of
Revelations 6 and 7 verses; 'And I saw another
angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the
everlasting gospel to preach unto them that
dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and
kindred, and tongue and people, saying with a


loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him,
for the hour of his judgment is come: and
Hosea, 6th chapter,—after 2 days, &c.., 2520
years which brings it to 1890. The coming of
the Son of Man never can be,till the judgments
spoken of, for this hour are poured out, which
judgments are commenced. Paul says. "Ye are
the children of the light, and not of the dark-
ness, that that day should overtake you as a
thief in the night; it is not the design of the
Almighty to come upon the earth and crush it
and grind it to powder, bnt he will reveal it to
his servants the Prophets.
	Judah must return. Jerusalem must be re-
built, and the Temple, and water come out
from under the Temple, and the waters of the
Dead Sea be healed. It will take some time to
build the walls of the city and the Temple, &c.,
and all this must be done before the Son of
Man will make his appearance. There will be
wars and rumors of wars, signs in the heavens
above, and on the earth beneath, the sun turned
into darkness, and the moon to blood, earth-
quakes in divers places, the seas heaving be-
yond their bounds; then will appear one grand
sign of the Son of Man in heaven: but what
will the world do? They will say it is a planet,
a comet, &c.; but the Son of Man will come as
the sign of the coming of the Son of Man,
which will be as the light of the morning
cometh out of the east.
	Choir sung a hymn.
	Prayer by W. W. Phelps.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WHEAT storers, take notice.  It is stated on
good authority  that  elder  leaves  scattered
among grain will preserve it from that destruc-
tive little pest, the weevil.
	THE Quarterly Conference of this Stake of
Zion will commence in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall (New Tabernacle) Jan. 3d, and 4th, at 10,
A. M. and 2, P. M. of each day.  The sisters
should consider  it  a  duty and a privilege to
attend these Conferences and not let any little
thing hinder them.
	THE Special Election was held Dec. 27, and
we are sorry to state that the voting was light,
owing of course to no opposition, and the peo-
ple consequently negligent; but every woman
who values her citizenship and the right of
suffrage should have proved it by voting for so
valiant a champion of woman's cause as C.
W. Penrose.  Thanks,  Bro. Penrose, you de-
serve the ladies' votes.
	THERE will also be a meeting held on F[-]iday
evening Jan. 3d, at 7 o'clock of all the various
Societies in this Stake.  The Relief Society the
Young People's Mutual Improv[-]ment Associa-
tions the Primary  Associations  the  Sunday
School Union will all be  represented by  those
acquainted  with  and interested  in those or-
ganizations.
	This is an oppertunity which should be duly
appreciated by the workers  in  these association
for the public weal and welfare of the Saints.
It is to be hoped the sisters will [--]ke a good
representation in numbers and that [--]e[-]e will
be no lack of speakers to report  th[-]  present
condition and future prospects of th[-]se home
missionary labors.
	OWING to a vacancy in the Territorial Leg-
islature, occasioned by the dem[-]se of Hon. A.
P. Rockwood, His Excellency, Governor Emery
issued a proclamation for a special election  to
be held in all the precincts of Salt Lake Co.
to elect a man for member from said County to
fill the vacancy.  Accordingly, a meeting of


the County Central Committee was called and
convened at the City Hall, Dec. 13, and it was
there decided to call a Mass Convention of
registered voters of the People's Ticket, to be
held in the Court House, Dec. 20, to nominate
a man to the position in the Legislature caused
by the death of a member after the general
election.
 The Mass Convention was held in the Court
House Dec. 20, at 12 M.,  and A. H. Raleigh
elected Chairman, Aurelius  Miner, Secretary,
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Assistant Secretary.  Pres.
Angus  M.  Cannon  opened the Convention
with prayer.  A motion was then made that
the Chair nominate a committee of seven on
nomination. The Chairman nominated as a
committee Z.  Snow,  A,  M.  Cannon,  T.  E.
Taylor,  J.  S. Rawlins,  C. W.  Stayner,  C. W.
Wilkin,  A. Gardner, but forgot the ladies, who,
it should be  remembered, form an important
element in this community, as whoever is
elected will have a majority of women's votes.
But by courtesy of Theo.  McKean, Esq.,  a
motion was made to increase the committee to
nine and include the ladies.  Accordingly, the
Chairman nominated M. Isabella  Horne and
Zina D. Young, and they were elected mem-
bers of the Committee.  After the Committee
retired speeches were made by several gentle-
men present, who all spoke in the highest terms
of praise of the character and labors of the de-
ceased  member, Hon. A. P. Rockwood.  Mrs.
S. M. Kimball  being called upon made  a  few
appropriate remarks.  Some of the gentlemen
spoke very generously of women, and one in
particular said he was in favor of a bill remov-
ing all the political disabilities of woman.
Such men women will vote for, and the gen-
tleman who uttered these sentiments was the
nominee. The Committee returned the name
of Charles W. Penrose.  After the preliminary
proceedings the report was adopted, the con-
vention was adjourned  sine die.  Closed with
prayer by John T. Caine, Esq.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LETTER.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	On the morning of Dec. 1, I went to Ogden
City, and during two weeks spent in Weber
Co. met once in joint session of the four
branches of the Relief Society in that place.
	Accompanied by Pres. J. S. Richards and her
Stake Counselors, H. Brown and S. Herrick,
alternately, I visited the branches of the R. S.
in North Ogden, Plain City, Lynn, Marriott
and Harrisville; in Riverdale met with the
Primary Association, and found it in a flourish-
ing condition, under the presidency of Sister
Bingham and counselors, In Uintah we met
with the Relief Society, also organized a Pri-
mary Association.
	A good spirit was manifest in all of our meet-
ings, and one interesting feature in particular
I wish to mention—the brethren, many of
them, attended with the sisters, manifesting,
not only by their presence, which we highly
appreciated, but also by expressions, that they
fully realized that "the man is not without the
woman, nor the woman without the man in
the Lord," and that all were working for mu-
tual interest.
	At the close of each meeting we returned to
Ogden for the night, where, in two evenings, I
was the honored recipient of the most gratify-
ing and truly most interesting of all surprises.
The first was given by Sister Odell, her coun-
selors and members of the 3d Ward Primary
As[-]ociation; the other by Sister Josephine
West, her counselors and members of the P.
A. of the 2d Ward, Ogden City.
	You are familiar with the size of Sister Jane


Richards' parlor—just imagine, if youp loss
yourself seated near the stove, poring over Dr.
Ridgeway's book entitled "The Lord's Land,"
when on a sudden the door opened and sixty
boys and girls entered, greeting you with
"Good evening," and after having been closely
packed, under the direction of their respective
presidents, joined their sweet voices in singing
choice selections of hymns and songs. This
was followed by a variety of exercises, recita-
tions, answering questions, etc., and listening
with rapt attention to addresses from adults
present.
	The presence of these joyous faces, bright
eyes and expressive, intelligent countenances,
was thrilling in effect, and their ready answers
when interrogated gave evidence of rapid im-
provement. I never shall forget those two
evenings.
	I think that of all the meetings I attended
in Weber Co., the joiut assemblage of the four
Primary Associations of Ogden City on Satur-
day afternoon, the 13th ult., was the crowning
one. It seemed a nation in embryo—a multi-
tude of germs, under efficient, loving training,
for future noble manhood and womanhood—
the embodiment of purity and happiness—the
promise of a mighty generation. I cannot ex-
press the feelings of my heart, standing before
that congregation of little folks. The scene,
to be appreciated, must be witnessed.
	E. R. S.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE National Woman Suffrage Association
will hold their Convention in Washington, D.
C., commencing Jan. 21, at 10:30 A. M. It is
expected there will be an unusual number of
delegates in attendance, as well as new and
talented advocates of woman's enfranchise-
ment. Entertainment will be provided for
officers of the Association, speakers and ac-
credited delegates during the sessions of the
Convention, upon applying to the correspond-
ing secretary. Delegates who do not wish to
accept this hospitality, may be supplied with a
comfortable home at one dollar per day. All
delegates are requested to report at the Riggs'
House, corner 15th and G. Streets, upon arrival.
	MRS. E. C. Stanton's daughter; who gradu-
ated the last year from the Boston school of
oratory, will speak (it is expected) on the plat-
form at Lincoln Hall during the Convention.
	A DELEGATE from each section of the coun-
try will be heard before the Committees of
the House and Senate, to whom petitions will
be referred. This promise was given the Sec-
retary, Mrs. S. A. Spencer, during the extra
session, even unfriendly members pledging
themselves to be present.


IN MEMORIAM.

Darling Winnie! she sleeps not in the tomb,
And though we miss her sadly, yet we know
She lives, where flow'rs immortal ever bloom,
And were there's no more sorrow, pain or woe.

	Our little granddaughter, Winnifred Isabel
died of infantile consumption at 15 minutes to
3 o'clock P. M. Dec. 25, 1879, (Christmas day)
in this city. Little Winnie as she was af-
f[-]ctionately called was the daughter of Major
W. W. and Mrs. M. C. B. Woods and was born
Oct. 16, 1875. She was a very beautiful child and
more especially endeared to her parents and
relatives on account of her ext emely delicate
health. Her death was not anticipated at the
time, and it was very sad to have it transpire
on the day when all the little ones are unusually
joyful. Her own little stocking had been hung


up Christmas eve with those of her little
brothers and sisters and was filled with the
choicest things of all. No child could be more
tenderly beloved. But the little darling is
now at rest. She has gone where loving friends
will welcome her pure spirit, gone to her home
with the angels, and in this bereavement let
those who mourn remember the precious words
of the blessed Savior,
	"Suffer little children to come unto me and
forbid them not for of such is the kingdom of
heaven."

"Whom the gods love die young."

	DIED, in the 9th Ward of this city, at 2
o'clock  P. M., Monday, Dec. 29, 1879,
of paralysis of the heart Grace Whitney
Groo, aged 13 years, 10 months, and
19 days. Deceased was the beloved daughter
of Isaac and Mary Jane Whitney Groo, and
was born in the 18th Ward of this City, Feb.
10, 1866. She was also the granddaughter of
Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney, by whom she
was greatly beloved, and to whom her death is
a most severe affliction, as well as to her own
parents. Grace was a very general favorite
with her relatives and friends. In the ward
where she has resided since her babyhood, she
was very greatly beloved. She was indeed a very
lovely girl, early developed into womanhood.
No one could look upon her without realizing
she was old beyond her years, she possessed
many amiable qualities of heart, and her mind
and judgment were like that of a mature wo-
man. It is sad indeed to part with our loved
ones, but when we lay them away pure we
know that their salvation is secured, and that
they have escaped the many cares, trials, sor-
rows and heartaches of this life. Grace was
aware that death was inevitable, and sent for
her young companions and bade them a loving
farewell; and to her father and mother she
said: "You have nothing to regret, you have
done all for me that you could. Goodbye, I
shall soon be at rest." She has gone to join
the many relatives and friends of the family
with a host of Saints behind the vail. May
God, in His infinite mercy and goodness, bless
the bereaved ones and console them as He alone
can.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED. At Peterson, Morgan County, on
Sunday, Dec. 7, 1879, Mrs. Mary A. Rock-
wood Card, wife of Brother Card. Decessed
was born Oct. 14th, 1847, at Winter Quarters,
on the Missouri River, Iowa. She was a
daughter of the late well known and highly
respected Hon. A. P. Rockwood. Her resi-
dence was chiefly in this city, where she
formed a large circle of friends, who will re-
member her life and character as that of a pure,
true Christian. She was an active advocate of
the home industries, giving special attention
to sericulture, in which she was very success-
ful. About a year ago she was married, and
want to reside with her husband at his home
in Peterson. Among the inhabitants of that
place she at once became a general favorite, by
reason of her amiable and loving disposition,
her devotion to her religion, and her great de-
sire and energetic efforts to inculcate the prin-
ciples of truth into the hearts of the young.
	When news of the death of her late lament-
ed father reached her, she was herself in a pre-
carious condition of health, and totally unfitted
for the reception of such sad intelligence; and
from that moment she knew no real rest until
the time of her own demise. Her death oc-
curred about four o'clock P. M., after the pre-
mature birth of a pair of twin boys, both of
which also died during the pangs which their


[Column 1]
mother suffered. It seems a mournful thing
to chronicle the death of a young woman so
useful and so well-beloved. And we can but
offer our sincere sympathy to the near friends
and relatives of this sister and co-laborer of the
Saints of God. Especially do we oondole with
the affectionate and doubly-bereaved husband,
and ask for him that consolation which only
comes through faith in the divine Comforter.
During her last moments Sister Mary Ann was
asked if she had any message which she would
like to leave for any absent friend. She replied,
"Tell ALL my friends for me, good bye and
God bless them."
	Salt Lake City.				LULA.

	DIED, at Scipio, Millard Co., Oct. 4, after a
severe illness of Typhoid fever, Emily Frances,
beloved daughter of Thomas and Elizabeth
Yates, aged eleven years, eight months, and
eleven days. She was a good, obedient child,
and well beloved by all who knew her.

	Also, at Scipio, Millard Co., Nov. 10, of Ty-
phoid Pneumonia, after a few days illness,
Mary Peterson Oleson, beloved wife of J. P.
Oleson. She was a true Latter-day Saint and
an active worker in the Relief Society. She
leaves a widowed mother, a husband and three
small children to mourn her early departure
Sister Oleson being only thirty-one years of
age.
	At the same place, Dec. 14, of consumption,
in the thirty-eignth year of her age, Ellen
Beecroft. Her death is a severe blow to her
husband and aged father, whom she leaves,
with five small children to mourn her loss,
her death being quite unexpected. It has cast
a gloom over our settlement.
								E. Y.

"An angel in the Book of Life
	Wrote down an infant's birth,
But added, ere he closed the page,
	Too beautiful for earth."

	DIED, at Pleasant Green, Salt Lake Co., Nov.
5, Louisa Cutcliffe Auer, infant daughter of
Ulrich and Mary Jane Spencer Auer, born in
Salt Lake city, May 25, 1878. She was a very
lovely child, and her parents, brothers, sisters
and friends deeply mourn her loss. We extend
to them our heartfelt sympathies, for we know
how hard it is to lay away our loved ones in
the cold and silent grave, yet the assurance of
meeting them gives true consolation to the
Latter-day Saint.

	DIED, at Toquerville, Dec. 11, 1879, of in-
flammation of the brain, Sarah Ann Spilsbury,
wife of Alma P. Spilsbury, of Toquerville,
Kane Co., Utah. Deceased was born in Mill
Creek Ward, Salt Lake Co., Feb. 27, 1853.

MEMORIAL OF RESPECT

To the Memory of Sarah Ann Spilsbury, Presi
dent of the Y. L. M. I. Association.
	Whereas, our much esteemed President and
fellow laborer, Sarah Ann Spilsbury, hss, by
divine Providence, been removed from our
midst by the hand of death; and, whereas, by
her regular attendance at our meetings, we
have been enabled to know and appreciate her
admirable character; therefore,

	Be it resolved, that we, the Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Ass[-]ciation of Toquer-
ville, deeply mourn her loss and sympathize
with her bereaved husband and friends in the
loss of so good, honorable and esteemed a wife
and friend.
	Resolved, that we tender to her bereaved
husband our heartfelt sympathy for a loss so
irreparable.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
transmitted to the family of the deceased, and
also furnished the "Deseret  News" and Wo-

MAN'S EXPONENT, and that the same be placed
upon the minutes of the Association.
	E. M. KLEINMAN,			}
	ELVIRA HILL,				} Committee.
	CHRISTENIA FORSYTH,	}

	DIED, at Toquerville, Kane Co., Utah, Oct.
27, 1879, Ella, daughter of Alma P. and Sarah
Ann Spilsbury; born Aug. 30, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The Relief Society of Beaver has lately
been reorganized, by Pres. Murdock and
counselors as followes.
	Mrs. Delila F. Cox, President, Sarah M.
Dell and Harriet E. Sheperd, Counselors,
Mary E. Ashworth, Secretary, Lizzie
Farnsworth, Ass't. Sec'y, Mantie J. Shipp,
Treasurer.
	The members enrolled number 117.
Grain on hand 173 and a half bushels. Our
building is almost completed,and though we
are considerably in debt, we trust that through
union energyand perseverance, assisted by
the blessings of our heavenly Father, we
shall be enabled to go forward in the good
work.
	With many good wishes for the EX-
PONENT, I remain your Sister
	MARY E ASHWORTH.

	At the instnace of Sister Lunt, President
of the Relief Society of Parowan Stake the
Relief Society of Cedar City met in the
Social Hall Dec, 2,1879, at 2 P. M. to accept
the resignation of President Sarah Uric on
account of her arduous labors in attending
to the sick, quite a fair representation of
sisters were present who were favored with
the presence of Pres. Henry Lunt Bishop
C. J. Arthur and Eldes R. W. Heyborne.
After the usual exercises Pres. Lunt made
a few opening remarks and called on Bishop
Arthur to state the object of the meeting,
which he did and on his motion, Sister
Sarah Uric President with her Counselors
Mary Anne Lunt and Sage T. Jones were
released, with a vote of thanks for their
past labors. A reorganization was then
effected with the following sisters as officers,
Sage T. Jones, President; Marion B. Arthur
and Eiizabeth A. Evans, Counselors; Jane
P. Mackelprang Secretary and Marion, B.
Arthur Treasurer.
	The Bishop then addressed the sisters on
the necessity of being united in all their
movements, referred to the great channel
there is for doing good and assisting the
Bishop of the Ward in looking after the
poor etc. Pres. H. Lunt encouraged the
sisters in their labors imploring them to so
order their lives that the Spirit of the Lord
might prompt them in every duty, he could
see a bright future for the Relief Society of
this Ward, predicted the speedy downfall
of Babylon and showed the necessity of the
sisters leading out in home industry and
above all to strive to sustain the brethren
in the establishment of home industries, to
set examples before their daughters worthy
of imitation, also encouraged them in the
raising of silk. The sisters that had been
snstained in the various positions were then
set apart under the hands of Pres. H. Lunt
and Bp. Arthur. Pres. Ellen Lunt testified
to the good spirit that was in our midst,
felt she could sustain the selection of officers
made this day by the brethren and blessed
the former President and Counselors for
their faithful labors. Elder Heyborne ad-
dressed the sisters on the necessity of seeing
to the recording of the Genealogies of their
families in the Church Record. Sister
Sarah Uric expressed her thankfulness for 

[Column 2]

the kind release extended to her and asked
for the faith and prayers of the sisters in
her labors among the sick. A good spirit
and feeling prevailed throughout the meet-
ing which was dismissed with Benediction.
	I would also here state that a Stake organ-
ization of the Relief Society in the Parowan
Stake of Zion was effected at the Stake Con-
ference held in Parowan Sept. 27 and 28th,
with Sister Ellen Lunt as President, Mary
Anne Lunt of Cedar City, and Huldah D.
Mitchell of Parowan, Counselors, and Sister
Sarah Chatterley, Stake Secretary.
	JANE P. MACKELPRANG Sec'y.

		KAKAB STAKE.
	The Annual Conference of the Relief So-
cieties of the Kanab Stake of Zion, was
held in the Kanab Schoolhouse, Sept. 5,
1879, Pres. Elizabeth Nuttall presiding.
This being the busy season of the year, the
attendance of the sisters was small, yet we
had a very good meeting. Some good
counsel and advice were given by Pres.
Nuttall and her counselors, Sisters Harriet
Bunting and Lucy A. Johnson, also Bishop
W. D. Johnson, Jr. The sisters in this
Stake are doing their best in mutually bene-
fitting each other, and in building up the
kingdom of God. I think the taste for
light reading among the sisters of this
place is fast giving way to a greater desire
to examine and understand the principles
of the Gospel.
	Statistical and financial report for the
year ending August 31, 1879. Statistical:
Members enrolled, 336; teachers, 76; aver-
age attendance, 131; meetings held, 142;
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 22. Financial: Re-
ceipts, $472.90; Disbursements, Manti Tem-
ple, $111; Sundries, 74.25; Total disburse-
ments, 185.25. We have in the Treasury
62 bushels of wheat and $33 in cash; the
balance in merchandise and sundries. To-
tal amount in Treasury, $287.65.
	M. ELIZABETH, LITTLE, Sec'y.

	PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENTS.

	The children of Goshen Primary Associa-
tion on the 5th, of Nov. last gave their Pres.
Mrs. Sarah Roberts a Surprise Party and
presented her with a Book of Doc. and Cov.
for which they each contributed 5 cts. as a
token of their love and gratitude some ap-
propriate lines were inscribed therein com-
posed by Mrs. C. Higginson. Sister Roberts
tendered her appreciation of the respect
shown her, feeling quite overjoyed and
hoped God's blessings would rest upon her
labors and felt to bless each child. A
bountiful picnic, dancing, singing and re-
citations made a pleasant afternoon's enter-
tainment. The Bishop and Counselors the
Pres. of Relief Society and her Counselors
and many elderly persons were present; all
felt well repaid for coming together.
		M. A. Till Sec'y.
	The lines spoken of were very pretty but
as we cannot possibly publish poetry for all
the Primary Associations we must not pub-
lish for any.

	The Primary Association of East Bounti-
ful was organized April the 19, 1879. We
thought it would be interesting to send the
proceedings of a Concert held here on Tues-
day Nov. 1879, which consisted of songs
recitations prepared for the occasion and
great praise is due to our young brethren
and sisters for their good behavior. The
preformance of the May Queen was extreme-
ly good. We had two hours good entertain-
ment and the Congregation left the Taber-
nacle well satisfied.
	OLIVE C. SESSION Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		119


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Allow me a small space to remark upon a 
small nameless article in you last issue, i. e.
"Coquetry." The opening words, "Few
women have the stamina to refuse an op-
portunity to flirt!" Can it be a woman who
writes this of her sex? If so, I pity her,
because I know she can only have been
thrown among the light and most frivolous
of women! That line endorsed words of
Pope, which every true, noble-natured wo-
man knows to be a vile slander; Pope prob-
ably wrote it when smarting under some
crushing rebuke to his own feelings, and
they are bitter, sarcastic and villifying, and
—not true! "Every woman is at heart a
rake!" But here comes a writer (surely it
cannot be a woman) that fully endorses
these slanderous words on woman, and with
interest too! I care not whether the writer
is man or woman, it is a libel, and I know
it.
	Let me also correct the writer in the ap-
plication of terms. A man is a flirt, a wo-
man a coquette; the terms are not synony-
mous. And let me say, no man will ever
flirt with any woman who is true to the
noble instincts of woman; it is the coquette
that makes the flirt, for in all things, great
and small, it is woman that gives the cue
to man! Any one that denies that asser-
tion knows but little of the depths and shal-
lows of human nature. The masse of wo-
men are thoughtless, if you please; they
have not studied their own characters, nor
that of their brother man. Let them do
so in this advanced age for women; and let
women that attempt to write for the public
show up the nobility that is in every wo-
man when rightly trained and rightly edu-
cated, and even above these, rightly asso-
ciated. Most true it is that "Evil commu-
nications corrupt good manners," yes, and
good morals also.
	O woman! for Heaven's sake rise up and
shake the dust of ages from thy heart and
brain, and let the world see that God is thy
Maker and Fashioner, and not man!
							H. T. K.


[Column 1]
CHARLES DICKENS AND RELIGION.

BY B. F. C., JR.

	The present is an age whose greatest men
are leaving the beaten paths of centuries
and pioneering new ones; refusing to be
bound up in the dogmas of others, they
choose rather to think for themselves.
	Notably is this true in respect to the re-
ligious views of the greatest men and wo-
men of the present century. It is the rule
rather than the exception to see them par-
tially, or entirely, cast off all sectarian fet-
ters and denominational relations.
	In Europe, Fraude and Hugo in litera-
ture, Strauss in music, Bismarck and Dis-
aaeli among statesmen, represent this ad-
vance beyond the narrow limits of sectari-
anism, while in our own country we have
Wendall Phillips, America's classic orator,
Ralph Waldo Emerson, her sage, philoso-
pher, poet and moralist, Charlotte Cushman,
her greatest tragedienne, a woman of supe-
rior intellect, who are all pre-eminent rep-
resentatives of progress in religious free-
thinking.
	Our very short list might be extended al-
most endlessly, and the farther we investi-
gate this subject, the clearer shall we see
that the so-called Christianity of to-day, as
a system of religion, is a signal failure, and
not at all adapted to the wants of the mor

[Column 2]
advanced, who are casting it aside, as farm-
ers have the wooden plow, deeming it alto-
gether too primitive, unphilosophical and
inconsistent with itself and known truths,
to be of any value. Recognizing this state
of things, Strauss coolly proposes to substi-
tute mnsic for religion; to devote the time
and money now given to religion to the
musical culture of the masses. He claims,
and with some plausibility, that such a
course would polish, elevate and ref[-]ue the
masses, and in this respect at least would
be superior to many of the religions of the
day.
	These great men and women, who thus
repudiate so-called Christianity, are not all
atheists by any means. Most all of them
believe in the inspiration and revelation of
Scripture, but they look in vain for a theolo-
gy which they can conscientiously adopt.
	Charles Dickens was one of these. In a
volume of his letters, written to a great
variety of persons, lately published, his
views upon religious matters are quite
plainly indicated, and to the charges so
often made that his religious notions were
extremely loose, some of these letters give
sufficient answer. No man hated cant
more, and he frequently held it up to ridi-
cule. To some one who wrote to him that
he was injuring the cause of religion by his
picture of the shepherd, in "Pickwick", he
wrote:
	"The design of "the Shepherd," and of
this and every other ailusion to him, is to
show how sacred things are degraded, vul-
garized and rendered absurd when persons
who are utterly incompetent to teach the
commonest things take upon themselves to
expound such mysteries, and how, in mak-
ing mere cant phrases of divine words,
these persons miss the spirit in which they
had their origin. I have seen a great deal
of this sort of thing in many parts of Eng-
land, and I never knew it to lead to charity
or good deeds.
	"Whether the great Creator of the world
and the creature of his hands, moulded in
his own image, be quite so opposite in
character as you believe, is a question which
it would profit us little to discuss. I like
the frankness and candor of your letter and
thank you for it. That every man who
seeks heaven must be born again, in good
thoughts of his Maker, I sincerely believe.
That it is expedient for every hound to say
so in a certain snuffling form of words, to
which he attaches no good meaning, I do
not believe."
	He had but little respect for the Church,
or, rather, many of those who professed to
expound the religion of the meek and lowly
Savior. He writes:
	"As to the Church, my friend, I am sick
of it. The spectacle presented by the in-
decent squabbles of priests of most denomi-
nations, and the exemplary unfairness and
rancor with which they conduct their differ-
ences, utterly repel me. And the idea of
the Protestant establishment, in the face of
its own history, seeking to trample out dis-
cussion and private judgment, is an enor-
mity so cool, that I wonder the right rever-
ends, very reverends, and all other rever-
ends, who commit it, can look in one an-
other's faces without laughing, as the old
soothsayers did. Perhaps they can't and
don't. How our sublime and so-different
Christian religion is to be administered in
the future I cannot pretend to say, but that
the Church's hand is at its own throat I am
fully convinced. Here more Popery, there
more Methodism—as many forms of con-
signment to eternal damnation as there are
articles, and all in one forever quarrelling
body—the Master of the New Testament

[Column 3]
put out of sight, and the rage and fury al-
most always turning on the letter of ob-
scure parts of the Old Testament, which it-
self has been the subject of accommodation,
adaptation, varying interpretation without
end—these things cannot last. The Church
that is to have its part in the coming time
must be a more Christian one, with less ar-
bitrary pretensions and a stronger hold upon
the mantle of our Savior, as he walked and
talked upon this earth."
	The last clause may be termed a prophe-
cy. Here we have written by his own
hand, a statement of his religious views,
and, though they may subject him to the
accusation of infidelity, the time is not far
distant when the most advanced minds up-
on the earth will honor him for his senti-
ments of detestation towards the hypocrisy,
cant, quarrels, contention, division and con-
fusion which the so-called Christian  world
presented to his view.
	The time has been when "the Church"
held sway over the intellects as well as the
armies of the world, but thanks be to the
Most High that time is fast passing away,
and an era is approaching in which the in-
tellectual, wise and learned, as well as the
humble and unlearned, shall find the truth
as it has been revealed from heaven in these
last days, notwithstanding the efforts of
"the Church" and its priests to distort and
c[-]ush it out.


THE SABBATH DAY.

	I am sitting alone in my far off Savoia
home thinking of the many pleasant Sab-
baths spent in dear Utah my former home.
I do not think I can find a more suitable
subject than the Sabbath day. How many
of us appreciate this sacred day of rest.
Do we realize that God gave us this day
to rest and worship Him and He will hold
us accountable if we spend it otherwise
than He has commanded. Our children
should be taught to love the Sabbath from
their earliest infancy and when they are
older it is surely the mother's duty to
gather them around her and tell them of
God and his many mercies unto his children
on earth. If we will do this perhaps our
little girls and boys will be more willing to
heed the instructions of their Sunday-school
teachers. A mother's example and teach-
ing are more to most children than all
others may say or do. How many of us
who call ourselves saints spend the Sabbath
reading novels or in idle gossip and perhaps
at some sort of work. If mothers do this
can they think their sons and daughters
will grow up to love the Sabbath day and
keep it holy? We surely may expect them
to follow in our footsteps. Perhaps there
are some of us who spend this day in idle
dreaming and repining perchance even
wishing Sunday would not come so often.
Dear sisters should we not endeavor to pass
these few hours each week at meeting and
in reading God's holy books or in some way
that we might feel blest and know that our
heavenly Father approved of our actions?
Our prayers and thanks should ascend to
Him daily but on the Sabbath we should
let our thoughts be with him more especi-
ally. It is on this day our spiritual strength
is renewed and our hearts are comforted
that we might better accomplish the duties
and bear the trials of the following week
and if we are prayerful and seek Him when
health and happiness are ours we will not
be forgotten when sorrow is our portion,
and the angels will be with us pointing to
that HOME where dwelleth our Father, who
has forbidden us to break the Sabbath day.
MARY STUART.
Savoia New Mexico. Nov. 30, 1879.


120		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

		NEW TUFTON, NEAR CHESTERFIELD,
DERBYSHIRE, ENG., Nov. 21, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister—On the 28th of October, 1878,
the Tufton Relief Society was organized
by Elder M. B. Wheelwright, one of the
missionaries from Utah, with the following
officers, viz.:  Susannah Stacy, President,
Elizabeth Griffin and Ellen  Bailey, Coun-
selors, and Eliza  Clark,  Secretary.  Not-
withstanding the hard times, we have been
enabled to render valuable assistance to the
poor Saints in our midst.  We take great
pleasure in the good work, and sincerely
hope that the time may speedily come when
we shall all have the privilege of gathering
to Zion, and have the pleasure of co operat-
ing with our dear sisters there.  The EXPO-
NENT  comes to hand regularly, and is
always hailed as a welcoming messenger.
	On the 10th of this month  Elizabeth
Griffin was released as First Counselor, and
Eliza Clark appointed in her stead. This
appointment left a vacancy in the secretary-
ship, which was filed by appointing Mary
Clark.
	The sisters of the Society a few days
since formed themselves into a surprise
party and visited an old lady, who is desig-
nated as "Granny Warren."  It was the
eighty-seventh anniversary of her birthday,
and I can assure you it was a pleasant sur-
prise to her.  We gladdened the dear crea-
tures heart by a few of the good things of
this earth, and spent a very happy and
pleasant time together.
	Not wishing to infringe too much on
your valuable time, I will conclude, praying
God to bless you in the noble work you are
engaged in, and believe me your sister in
the Gospel of Christ,
SUSANNAH STACY.


THE CHILDREN.

TO THE EDITOR OF THE WOMAN'S EX-
	PONENT.

	Seated in my room (many hundreds of
miles away from the friend through whose
kindness I have the pleasure of reading
your paper,) I ask of you the privilege and
pleasure of talking (through my pen) about
the children—and if it may seem an intru-
sion let my interest in, and my work
among them be my only excuse. I am one
of those who say—God bless the children—
all over this broad land to night.
	I often think many parents do not cor-
rectly estimate, and appreciate the responsi-
bility resting upon them. That it is a high
and holy office to have these little ones
under their charge, to teach, to lead, to
direct them in high and holy lives.
	Do they stop to think that children con-
tinually hunger for new ideas, that a parent
can give so much better than any one else?
That they will listen and learn with pleas-
ure from the lips of a parent, what would
be thought drudgery to study in books; and
even if they should have the misfortune to
be deprived of many educational advantages,
yet they will grow up intelligent people.
	So many times we meet parents that are
the life of every company which they enter,
but in the company of their own children
in their own homes, are dull, uninteresting
and unsocial. This is wrong. Parents
bring your sweetest smiles, your loving
words, your activity, your depth and
strength of thought and purpose in among,
your children: enter into their joys and sor-
rows, their hopes and fears. Let them feel


you are deeply interested in them; that
you love them dearly; that it is your high-
est ambition to make them happy; that
you are working and praying for their
present and future good.
	Fill your homes with good reading,
music and sweet song, innocent games, and
every thing that will interest, amuse and
instruct them. A silent home, no smiles,
no loving words, no sports, is a dull place
for the young, and one from which they
will gladly escape as soon as they can.
Sentout into the world before habits are form-
ed; sent out before principles of right are
fixed; sent out because home was not made
attractive enough to keep them. Many a
wrecked life can look back, and echo these
words; while many a grand true man, many
a sweet fine woman, looks back to child-
hood's hours, to childhood's home, and says
(deep from the heart) God I thank thee for
my parents and early home, for they and
God have made me what I am.
	Let the parents awake and enter more
deeply, more faithfully, more earnestly into
this great work, and many in the last great
day will arise and call you blessed."
	Again; I say, God bless the children.
						SISTER PLUNKETT.


READ THIS, GIRLS.

	Learn to darn stockings neatly, and
then always see that your own are in order.
Don't let a button be off your shoes a mo-
ment longer than needful. It takes just about
a minute to sew one on, and oh, how much
neater a foot looks in a trimly-buttoned
boot than it does in a lop-sided affair with
half the buttons off! Every girl should learn
to make all the simple articles of clothing,
and we know a little girl of seven who could
do this, and who also made the whole of a
blue calico dress for herself, and pieced a
large bed quilt. She was not an over-taxed
child, either, but a merry, romping, in-
dulged, only daughter. But she was
"smart," and she did not die young, either.
Indeed, we have seldom known children
"too smart to live." Very few ever die of
that complaint, whatever their grand-
mothers may think.
	So never be afraid a bit of overdoing the
business. Help all you can, and study over
the business daily. Once get in the habit
of looking over your things, and you will
like it wonderfully. You will have the in-
dependent feeling that you need not wait
for any one's convenience in repairing and
making, but that you can be beforehand
with such matters. The relief to your
weary mother will be more than you can
ever estimate.—Woman At Work.


[Column 1]
HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading huttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, III.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cud and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods, Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFE AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

NEW HOME-MADE GOODS,
For Salt at the Old Constitution Building,
Salt Lake City.
	Plain Centre Shawls, Fine Grey, Red and White Yarn,
Plain Grey Flannel, Check Waterproof, Mottled Blankets,
Shoulder Shawls, Red Twilled Flannel. Fine White Flan-
nel. Etc. Making our Stock of Woolen Goods Com-
plete.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79 First South St., Salt Lake Ci


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

