VOL. 8.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1880.	NO. 16.


[For the EXPONENT.
WINTER WINDS.

Oh, brave is the soul that ne'er feeleth a fear,
On a night in midwinter, so dismal and drear,
When the wierd, ghostly winds for a maddening rout
From their deep and unsearchable caverns are out.

They speak to my ear with thousands of tongues—
They tell of fierce passions and bitterest wrongs;
And sorrow and suffering burden their breath,
And the wearisome tale ends forever in—Death.

Like a maniac driven stark mad with despair,
Who gnashes his teeth and tears out his wild hair,
They howl in the skrinking and shuddering ear,
Dark tales of destruction, blood-curdling to hear.

Of distress guns at sea, scarcely heard through the roar
Of furious breakers that rush on the shore,
Ever shattered and mangled upon the sharp edge
Of bold, cruel rocks rising ledge over ledge.

The last gurgling cry of the seamen so brave,
Engulfed in the maw of the pitiless wave;
The moans of pale mothers convulsed to the soul,
Because o'er their loved ones the black billows roll.

They echo the thunder of battle's fell strife,
Where foemen are marshalled and murder is rife—
The groans of the dying, by feet trampled o'er,
Of victors exulting in slaughter and gore,

Then change their hoarse tones to the soul-piercing cry
Of poor, lonely children forsaken to die;
Who, wild with affright—half orphaned before—
Bewail their dead mother, who hears them no more.

They tell then of wanderers hopelessly lost,
As beaten and buffeted, baffled and tost,
Grown voiceless from shouting, still fighting for breath,
They yield them at last to the cold arms of death.

From red-burning cities the voice of despair
Like smoke surges up through flame-painted air,
As fierce, hungry fire, by cruel winds fanned,
Sweeps thousands of homes from the face of the land.

Then of storm-beaten forests, where, through the wild
	night,
Mad horses and master, soul-straining in flight,
By hunger-pinched wolves, with their ravenous cry,
Pursued, and they know if o'ertaken they die.

They shriek like lost spirits, for crime doomed to roam
The wide wintry world without shelter, alone;
Bereft of all hope, still with agonized cries
Lament their set past, which may nevermore rise.

But cruelest, bitterest, direst of all,
The sigh of wan women who ventured their all
Upon a man's promise—a mere empty word
Which scarce with a ripple his memory stirred.

All gilded and smiling he walks in the light,
While crushed and heart-weary she hides in the night,
Till seeing no hope and no rest save the grave,
Her breath and her babe's bubble up through the wave.

The winds now rejoice that I heard them aright,
And their shrill, eerie laughter e'en terrifies night;
They clutch at my window with skeleton hands,
Then shrieking speed far o'er the desolate lands.

Oh, wild, wailing winds! I cannot cry, Peace!
'Till our wo-burdened earth has some hope of release.
Oh, desolate winds! still your sad story tell,
Though it strike on the heart like a funeral bell.

									LU DALTON.


[Column 1]

	INTELLIGENT CONVERSATION.

	Men are more eloquent than women made,
	But women are more powerful to persuade.
		RANDOLPH.

	There are a great many topics of conver-
sation which it might be wise for women
to discuss in this day and age of the world
—at home by the fireside, at table, in their
intimate association with friends, in the
circle known as "society," or among even a
promiscuous assembly of people.
	We need more thorough cultivation in

[Column 2]

the art of conversation, and more careful
consideration of how we talk and what we
talk of. It is my opinion that great good
could be effected by simple conversation if
we were as earnest and thoughtful as we
might be, whenever an opportunity pre-
sented itself for doing good, or making an
impression in the right direction. We are
too frivolous and careless, and let the op-
portunities for sowing good seed pass by,
and sow only tares into good ground where
the best and choicest plants might grow, if
a little good seed were sown. We are not
all organized alike—some are much harder
to convince than others of truths which, to
the susceptible heart, are clear as noonday
without reasoning or demonstration. But
to those who have had much experience in
the vicissitudes of life we would say, bring
forth from the storehouse of your mind the
rich treasures gained in searching for the
"pearl of great price;" many are the gems
that unite to make the crown, and these
culled with hard labor, and polished with
ingenuity and skill, have doubtless cost the
possessor many weary days and sleepless
nights. It is true that all must pursue simi-
lar channels, must gain a life experience;
it is necessary each one should learn for
herself, yet illustrations of examples are
always in order to fix more firmly in the
mind the great truths enunciated.
	It is needless to say our lives have been
too dark and thorny, and now that we have
emerged from the tangled copse and shad-
ows that environed us, we will forever ban-
ish the subject; oh, no.
		Some truths are not by reason to be tried
		But we have sure experience for our guide.
	Then let us give to others similarly situ-
ated as far as possible the benefit of that
experience. In these perilous places did
we not have to lean entirely upon the Lord,
and plead with Him for grade and strength
to pass through the narrow way and avoid
the snares and besetments? And if we
have escaped with only a few bruises, and
sore with the struggle for victory from
some terrible trial, let us rejoice and stimu-
late others with that heroism that will in-
spire them with faith to endure the fiery
ordeals that refine and purify the human
soul.
	There is a great work to be done, and it
is high time we set about it; and it is not
sufficient that we attend our meetings and
try to cultivate ourselves there, but the
work must be constant. The conversation
of the home and in the casual meeting of
friends should be of a quality calculated to
enlighten and mutually benefit each other.
Even a few earnest women can accomplish
much in this direction, if their heart is in
the matter. Is it not absurd to see women
endowed with intelligence and gifted with
wisdom and judgment wasting precious
time in saying pretty things merely to be
pleasing, when there is so much to be said 
on important subjects that require discus-
sion?
	There are many sermons preached out-
side the pulpit, and great truths may be
explained and lofty sentiments expressed in
such a genuine and effective manner as to 
convince almost against one’s will. Fire-
side preaching, where the freest expression

[Column 3]

can be given to the best and purest thoughts,
is often really one of the greatest levers in
accomplishing an object. Something ought
to be done to correct the evils in conversa-
tion (if it deserves the name). Effervescent
talk and froth is prevalent, which, if sim-
mered down, would not contain one real
idea on any subject whatever. There is so
much to be learned that will make our lives
longer, better and more useful, that tends
directly towards human progress, that it is
a great pity women could not become con-
verted to the idea of intelligent conversa-
tion. Not only for the great good of all
should this mode of conversation be en-
couraged, but individually; every woman
improves herself and strengthens her own
powers of mind and thought by giving ex-
pression to her very own ideal on any sub-
ject worthy of thoughtfulness. It is by
thus developing one’s ideas that they are
able to do the highest good in the noblest
manner, that of ministering in the homes
of the lowly, to whom they owe duties of a
sacred character. We have heard the re-
mark, "anything but a woman with a mis-
sion;" but is it not woman’s work to instill
into the minds of children in their earliest
years those principles which will teach
them a reverence for goodness and truth?
Is it not woman’s mission to minister kind-
ness, to bless and console? And who, if
not women through the children, are to lay
broad and deep the very foundations which
will ultimately bring about peace on earth.
A great author (a man, too), speaking of
woman, has said; "The manners of men,
the hearts of men, the lives of men are in
her hands." Then what manner of women
ought we to be, who have such heavy re-
sponsibilities to carry? Diligent, faithful,
helpful, gentle, capable of the loftiest and
most sublime self-control, and full of that
sweet charity which adorns all other graces
with a divine radiance.
	AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS

	WADE Hampton, Jr., is dead.

	MRS. Myra Clark Gaines has just lost by
death her only child, a daughter.

	THE highest number of votes received
by any candidate on the London School
Board was by Miss Muller, in Lambeth—
18,860.

	MRS. James, the widow of G. P. R.
James, the novelist, is living at Eau-Claire,
Wis. She is now a woman of eighty years,
and is cared for by her sons.

	THE eleventh annual meeting of the
Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association
will be held in Wesleyan Hall, Bromfield
street, Boston, beginning on Wednesday
evening at 7½ o'clock, the 28th inst., and
continuing on Thursday afternoon at 2½
o'clock and evening at 7½ o'cleck. Thurs-
day morning at 10½ o'clock will be devoted
to business.
	The Suffrage clubs throughout the State
have done excellent work, and from each of
these a report of work and of plans is cor-
dially invited.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMEN'S ORGANIZATIONS.

The organization of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo, Ill., in March, 1842, opened per-
haps one of the most important eras in the
history of woman. It presented the great
woman-question to the Latter-day Saints,
previous to the woman's rights organizations,
which have created such extensive agita-
tion of the subject since, in America, Great
Britain and Europe. The question did not
present itself in any aggressive form as
woman opposed to man, but as a co-worker
and helpmeet in all that relates to the well-
being and advancement of both, and mu-
tual promoting of the best interests of the
community at large. It has given to wo-
man, in its rise and progress, influence on
almost all subjects that pertain to her wel-
fare and happiness, and opportunities for
expressing her own thoughts, views and
opinions; all of which has had a tendency
to make her intelligent in regard to mat-
ters which before were considered incom-
patible with "woman's sphere," and unin-
telligible to her "weaker" mind.
	Through these organizations an immense
work has been done in developing the fac-
ulties and capabilities of woman, that never
could have been effected except through
some permanent organization, or associa-
tion, for mutual help, benefit, and inter-
change of ideas.
	The developments and progression made
since the commencement of these societies,
which exist now throughout the extent of
the settlements of the Latter-day Saints,
was not dreamed of in the beginning.
They are educational in the most general
sense; all subjects, religious, moral and
mental, in their various bearings, are dis-
cussed, and instruction is given on all mat-
ters pertaining to life, health and happi-
ness. One of the strongest features of this
remarkable organization is the cultivation
of the gift of faith. That great power has
been manifested under the hands of sisters
in administering to the sick is a fact to
which many can testify; and is not this one
positive proof that the Lord recognizes
them and approves their labors in this di-
rection? Is there anything more heavenly
than to give comfort and relief to the sick
and distressed? We think not.
	In reference to this subject it seems ap-
propriate to give the Prophet Joseph's
words to the Relief Society in session in 
Nauvoo, from his own journal:
	"I met the members of the Female
Relief Society, and after presiding at
the admission of many new members,
gave a lecture on the priesthood, showing
how the sisters would come in possession of
the privileges, blessings and gifts of the
priesthood, and that the signs should fol
low them—such as healing the sick, casting
out devils, &c., and that they might attain
unto these blessings by a virtuous life and
conversation, and diligence in keeping all
the commandments."
	It is gratifying to know that there are
sisters still living who listened to the teach-
ings of the Prophet Joseph, and heard him
prophesy in regard to the glorious work
that would be accomplished through the
energy, industry and capability of the sis-
ters, with the blessing of God upon their
labors.
	Foremost among those connected with
teh Relief Society of Nauvoo we are proud
to mention the name of our aged sister and
Mother in Israel, Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
who was Counselor to the President of that
organization; Sister Eliza R. Snow, who
was the able and efficient Secretary, and
Sarah M. Kimball, one of its originators and

[Column 2]

most active and eminent workers. These
ladies, with others who are still living, are
among the pioneers of this woman move-
ment, or are indeed the very ones who have
aided most vigorously in laying the founda-
tion for us who are now engaged in this
work. How thankful we are that they still
live, and others who took part in those early
days, when so little was known of woman's 
fitness for positions of trust, or her ability
to transact business for the public good.
	Sisters Mercy R. Thompson, Zina D.
Young, Phebe Woodruff, Marinda Hyde,
Amanda Smith, Bathsheba W. Smith, Louisa
B. Pratt and others whose names are honor-
able, were members of that Society in its
infancy. We honor them as women of God
who not only accepted in humility and
meekness the additional responsibility
placed upon them, but who have continued
in the good work from year to year, aiding,
assisting and advising, and though they
have grown grey in the cause of truth, yet
falter not, but maintain with steadfastness
and integrity, the principles of righteous-
ness, and sustain those who are walking in
the same straight and narrow way.
	Many of those whose names were en-
rolled as members of that first organization
sleep now in the cold and silent tomb; but
think you, my good friends, their glorified
spirits are idle? No. They are at work:
we know not where nor how, but this we
know, that in the economy of heaven there
is no inactivity. We are instructed that
the spirits of men who pass behind the
vail are engaged in preaching to the spirits
in prison, as Christ, who went "to preach
to the spirits in prison that were sometime
disobedient in the days of Noah," &c. If
there is specified work for man there is also
a place for woman, of this rest assured;
and in the good time of the Lord, through
the revelations of His holy will, it will be
revealed.
	Among those who were actively engaged
in the work of the Society at a very early
period, we ought to make honorable men-
tion of Vilate Murray Kimball, who was
well known as an efficient adviser and one
of the most benevolent and sympathetic
women who ever lived. She was greatly
beloved by all who knew her, and was a
woman of remarkable spiritual endow-
ments. In her experience she had won-
derful manifestations of a spiritual nature,
which we hope to write up at some future
time for the edification of our readers.
In speaking of these ladies who have fig-
ured conspicuously in the history of this
people, we do not depend altogether upon
the testimony of others; having been inti-
mately acquainted with all the ladies whose
names are mentioned, and with many of
the facts interwoven in the incidents which
form a portion of the history of the women
of this people. That the lives of the wo-
men of this age are quite as remarkable as
those of any period of the world we feel
assured; that great events are about to trans-
pire in which woman will perform an active
and important revolutionary part we are not
afraid to predict. The great question is, is
she preparing herself for the position she
is destined to occupy, and the work which
will consequently devolve upon her? This
subject opens up a wide field for disserta-
tion.		E. B. W.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

ST. GEORGE, Nov. 29, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I have just laid down the "Woman's
Journal" with a good, long, comfortable
sigh of thankfulness that woman has at last

[Column 2]
found good and wise friends to speak in her
behalf, and better still, that some of them
know just exactly what to say for them-
selves.
	The way they tear off disguises and re-
veal the real state of things, looks much
like a decisive refusal longer to occupy the
inferior and dependent position which their
"natural guardians" have so long considered
their just due.
	If Francis Parkman, with his flimsy ex-
cuse for a double moral code and the su-
premacy of muscle over mind and morals,
is not convinced of his error by the able,
eloquent, sensible replies to his laborious
effort at justification of the one-sided and
deplorable state of human affairs heretofore
prevailing, I think he should be classed
with the willfully wicked who speak from
selfish motives rather than for the best good
of all. The man who opposes the equal
rights of women cannot deny nor conceal,
when defining his position, that his great
dread is to lose the dear privilege of dictat-
ing to some woman and pocketing her
money. It is the same selfish, domineering
spirit, in smaller compass, which in all
ages has led men—and women too—to sac-
rifice peace and honor, and risk life itself,
to grasp a sceptre, and with it the opportu-
nity of taking away other people's wills
and substituting their own. In the case of
woman it is done by man, under the pre-
tence of protecting her; but since the only
protection she has any need of is from the
violence and injustice of men, how bitter a
jest it is. And since it takes the form of
imposing all manner of legal and social in-
justice upon her, the wonder is that the
most insensible specimen of the creature
called man does not blush for shame of the
mocking pretence of protection.
	Witness how directly Mrs. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton goes to the heart of the mat-
ter when she says in her mild and forcible
manner: "Chance insults from the lower
orders are light indeed compared with those
which are coined into laws and constitutions
by our husbands, fathers, brothers, sons."
	The wisest and best of women seem to
have learned, and I feel in a hopeful mood
that the simplest will soon learn, that self-
protection is the best.
	How encouraging, too, to read so liberal
and fair an argument on rights, and the
source of rights, as that just completed by
William I. Bowditch. Even his criticism
on the Suffrage in Utah exhibits a very un-
usual degree of fairness and clear moral
perceptions. How admirably he sums up
the whole case:
	"Suffrage is neither a manly act nor yet
a womanly act; but the act of a human be-
ing, who, as part of the people, has an in-
herent right to express or refuse consent to
the form of government under which he or
she lives, because	*	*	*	government
derives its just powers from the consent of
the governed,	*	*	*	and from no other
source under heaven." Such noble senti-
ments, so wholly in accordance with the
spirit of our glorious Constitution, honor
him who upholds them, and are utterly be-
yond refutation.
	Again, in the Report of the Annual Con-
vention of the Rhode Island Woman Suf-
frage Association, that same Mrs. Stanton
fires a most magnificent shot into the camp
of those who prate so much about woman's
sphere being her home, by reminding our
gentle lawmakers that woman has no home,
no children, not even a wardrobe; "they all
belong to some man." "A Daniel come to 
judgment," I say. Permit us, kind pro-
tectors, to have homes and children, and
see what we will do with them. L. L. D.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		123


SOMETHING TO LIVE FOR.

Is the future bright with promise,
	Do its visions gleam with hope,
Spreading far and wide in gladness,
	Giving fancy brilliant scope?

Is it gay with myriad flowers,
	Which are ever fair with bloom;
Laden heavy with rich fragrance,
	Breathing always sweet perfume?

Is there an effulgent radiance,
	Tinging with a rosy light
All the future as by magic,
	Glorious in its coloring bright?

Comes there ever o'er thy silence
	A sweet thrilling sense of awe,
Just as if an angel presence
	Would thy soul from out thee draw?

Does it whisper flowers are fading,
	Fairy visions float away,
Things most sweet are only transient,
	All things earthly must decay?

Does it whisper life is fleeting,
	That there is a higher power,
Something surer in the future
	Than the pleasures of an hour?

Is there in the heart an echo,
	Answering the sad refrain?
Does it whisper live for something
	More than wealth, or power, or fame?

Mingle in the radiant vision
	Earnest of a life immortal;
Make secure thine exaltation,
	And thy happiness eternal.

Guard these principles as treasures
	Earth or heaven no purer give;
These will bring immortal pleasures,
	Something sure for which to live.
									EMILE.
S. L. City, May, 1872.	[handwritten] E. B. [-]


[Column 1]

	A VOICE FROM THE TYNE.

	Being called from my home in Zion upon
special business in the northern part of Her
Majesty's domain, and my stay here neces-
sarily protracted, but pleasant, and I hope
profitable, not only to myself but also to
many others of both sexes that the nature
of my mission to these parts gives me ac-
cess to; I occasionally receive copies of the
publications of Utah, such as the "Deseret
News," "Salt Lake Herald" and "Juvenile
Instructor," and some friend (?) sent me a
copy of a nameless sheet, embellished with
wood cuts, which excites our pity, and fans
our zeal for the cause of Zion; and now
some kind friend has sent me a copy of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT of Nov. 1, 1879, for
which I thank them very much.
	I would like in my humble way to speak
to my sisters in Zion on behalf of my sis-
ters in England, and remind them of the
hundreds of anxious hearts and ears that
are waiting to hear a word from the moun-
tains, in response to promises made many
years since, when they parted so full of
faith and hope; and many of them with
the assistance of those who were left be-
hind. Could many of my sisters in Zion
realize the condition of their sisters in Eng-
land, they would at least not refuse to write
them a kind word of encouragement to
cheer the gloomy hearth of what was once
the happy home of expectation. Some few
do write, in great haste, as they are so busy
generally in making means; many send a
photo. of their improved (?) selves, or of
the dear boys and girls they have been
blessed with in Zion.
	Now, this is all well enough, and in some
degree a blessing to the recipients; but the
effect produced is often the reverse of that
anticipated by the sender. And if they
could see those photographs produced, as
they invariably are, when one from Zion
calls, as we are all supposed to know every-
body who ever did emigrate to Utah—per-

[Column 2]

haps it is that of a son, or daughter, an un-
cle, or an aunt, or some dear friend, around
whose name still clings the happy memory
of the good times of the past; you are told
of their liberality, their kindness, their
solemn promises, till the voice chokes, and
the tear-dimmed eyes stare into your own,
in search of a cause for the change that
must have come over those in whom they
so implicitly confided. Poor creatures! we
comfort them as best we can, for we dare
not tell them that in many instances their
former friends have been unable to bear
humbly and honestly the blessings that
have fallen upon them. It is better not to
make promises at all than to neglect to fu-
fill them; this might be remembered by
all.
	Do our sisters in Utah remember the con-
dition of the honest poor woman in this
part of England? The pitman's wife is a
drudge; the agriculturist's a slave. Do
they know that women still work in brick-
yards, bind the wheat, pitch and stack the
hay, drive farm-carts, fill the carts and
spread the manure on the land, and that in
a wet, cold climate? Yet there are many
of them, the kind souls, who receive and
minister to the wants of our husbands,
brothers and sons, who have been sent forth
to proclaim the Gospel of the Son of God.
And they have claims which cannot safely
be ignored by those who I feel only need
reminding to produce a response that shall
gladden the hearts, in the coming season,
of many of the Lord's honest poor. Sister!
Brother! reach back the hand of help, and
claim the blessings of duty done.
	Oh, if I could gather all the dear girls
and boys of Zion around me to have a talk
—and we who are grandparents have a right
to talk; we who have "silver hairs among
the gold" have passed through the experi-
ence that our children are passing through.
We have felt the timid flutter of first love,
and hoped and sighed, and wondered if it
was reciprocated; and when assured, we
have piqued, and teased, and pouted, and
cried, and said many things which we did
not really mean. We have been woo'd and
wedded, and have seen God's choicest gifts
to mothers gather at our knee; and, alas!
we have also seen the loveliest of those
gifts plucked from us, leaving their toys
and their prattle, with the vacant chair in
our homes and the void in our souls never
to be filled, till the day of the restoration in
the Lord—near at hand.
	And as we love them and desire their
happiness, we would caution them against
the vanity and pride which is creeping into
Zion, aping the world in its extravagance
of dress and fashion, and the questionable
embellishments of so called "refined socie-
ty." Refined Society, indeed! What do I
see before me here? I dare not lift the veil
in your pages. "Refined society" is pro-
ducing an effete race of drones of both
sexes, whose tinseled glamour dazzles the
light of truth, vitiates the nation's honor,
and elbows virtue into the gutter; produc-
ing the chaos that now reigns in the moral
world of Europe and America. I know
that the naked truth is unpalatable to many,
and fashionable prudery blushes at her ap-
proach; but the chastened mind receives
and adopts it as her own.
	And while, in common with all our sex,
we love good clothing, and would encourage
the acquisition of every grace, and all learn-
ing that will tend to fit our youth for the
great future before them, to be gained only
by patient labor, in and for the kingdom of
God, I would teach them that God has never
yet selected a guide for His people from
"refined society." I would teach them to

[Column 3]

dig deeper than the surface of that which
"doth appear," to find the foundation of
that hope and confidence which will enable
them to pass unscathed the trying ordeals
the future will develop; for trials for Zion
are impending, and all who would pass as 
gold must be prepared for the refining pro-
cess.
	And, if I could speak to all our dear girls
at once, I would suggest that they prevailed
upon the good young men to forego the
privilege of just one dance this winter, and
devote the cost to the emancipation from
Babylon of some good young sisters, whose
prayers and gratitude would leave a sun-
beam in the memory of "our girls." I
have become acquainted with several who
are just budding into womanhood, whose
modest piety would adorn Zion, who in a
few years will naturally drift into marriage,
at best, and thus become fettered to a man
who knows not the way of the Lord. Sis-
ters, think of the emigration of some, not
as a donation, but as a duty to anxious ones
who have been born in the Church.
	This is a good place to see Zion from and
appreciate her privileges. How we enjoy a
"letter from home,', and watch the news
from every source. Sometimes we meet
with expressions that perplex us a little,
such as the select gathering of "Utah's
best society." Ambiguous sentiments!
There is something definite in "Utah's best
crop"—the idea is electric with joy that
would melt a savage with the smiles of
love.
	For "best society" we have our own
ideal, and we gather together the chosen
ones, who stood by when the martyrs fell,
with those who have compassed sea and
land in the service of the Lord, who have
never deserted a post till relieved by the
coming watch, and whose whitened locks
still shimmer with the light of heaven.
We see the hardy band of pioneers who
made the trails, and are still extending the
borders of Zion; we see the Twelve Apos-tles, and the vacant chair for our BROTHER
in BONDS; and interspersed as ministering
angels are the figures of those noble and
consistent women who have ever been
found in the front of the battle, with their
balm and lint to staunch the wound and
bless and encourage the weary. And we
wish for that companion picture one that to
the coming generations shall "point the
moral and adorn a tale." The one to be ap-
proached with uncovered reverence, inspir-
ing a determined fidelity to God and the
divine trust committed to our care; the
other to incite a loving confidence in the
hope of Israel.
	Mothers! Fathers! Let us teach our
children to emulate the virtues of the good
and the great, NOW, and not wait to pile
posthumous honors upon those whose coun-
sels we neglected while living.
	I see there is a new publication in Zion
since I left, i. e., the "Contributor." I
hope, and no doubt it will be, decided in
its tone, and thoroughly Mormon; we need
real Mormon literature, inspirational pens.
	I must close, or the cynics will say it's a
woman's failing. It is very foggy and cold
here; one does not venture out without a
respirator and muff. To the aged and the
youth, and the chubby-faced lispers of their
prowess at the Christmas pudding, I wish
a "Happy New Year," and remain
	Yours faithfully,
		GEORGINE A. BIRD.


MRS. H. T. King requests the pleasure of
hearing more from "E," with the full
name.


124		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JAN.15, 1880.


ABOUT THE LADIES' [-]ETITION.

DOUBTLESS there are many of our readers who
will be surprised to see that the ladies have
presented a petition to the present Legislature
of Utah, praying the passage of a bill or some
enactment which will remove the obstacle now
in the way of women holding any office of
emolument or trust in the Territory. Suffice to
say, that eyer since the defeat of a similar bill
before the last session of the Legislative As-
sembly, it has been under contemplation. The
ladies of Beaver, without being aware of any
movement of the kind in Salt Lake City, got
up a similar petition, which we shall publish
in our next issue; their petition is numerously
signed.
	As we have not space to say much on this
subject now, we will give the sisters a little
time to think, and hope by the next issue
that we shall have an expression from some of
them in different parts of the Territory on this
subject. It is a matter that concerns all. And
the ladies will watch with intense interest the
action of members on this subject.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE Quarterly Conference of this Stake of
Zion convened in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, 10 o'clock a. m., January 3d, 1880, Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon presiding. There was
a very large attendance of the authorities of
the Church and local officers of the Stake,
Bishops and others. The house was filled, and
on Sunday afternoon, hundreds were obliged
to leave as there was not even standing room.
A good spirit prevailed throughout the Confer-
ence, which continued two days, and much
general instruction and counsel was given to
the people for their comfort and guidance.

	WE learn through the Deseret News and Salt
Lake Herald that Susa Young and Jacob F.
Gates were united in marriage on the 5th of
January, 1880, and that the ceremony was per-
formed by President B. Young and
has been an occasional contributor to our paper.
We wish the young couple all the blessings
which result from a union of the affections, and
trust their future life may be a serene a[-]d plea-
sant one. We hope the young lady will con-
tinue to exercise her literary and musical capa-
bilities.

	THE Total Eclipse of the sun on Sunday,
January 11th, was extremely interesting. It
took place shortly after 3 o'clock p.m , but only
lasted a few seconds, yet while visible the ef-
fect was most charming upon the sky and
snowy scenery. The color of the reflection up-

[Column 2]
on the mountains was very peculiar and the
heavens were indeed resplendent. The scene
was indeed a romantic one, and must be full of
interest to the experienced scientist, and in-
deed to all who appreciate the relative positions
and movements of the heavenly bodies, and
their effect upon each other and the principles
that govern, control and guide them.

	AT the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this city,
January 3rd, 1880, at 7 o'clock p. m., a meeting
of Relief Societies, Mutual Improvement As-
sociations, Sunday Schools and Primary Asso-
ciations of this Stake convened.
	There were present on the stand: Pres. John
Taylor and Elder Joseph F. Smith, of the
Twelve Apostles, Elders Angus M. Cannon,
Joseph E. Taylor and David O. Calder, the Pre-
sidency of this Stake. Of the Relief Society,
M. Isabella Horne, her Counselors, Elmina
L. Taylor, and Sarepta M. Heywood, Eli-
zabeth Howard, Secretary, and Mrs. E. B.
Wells. Mrs. M. A. Freeze, President of the Y.
L. M I. A., and Louie Felt, her First Counsel-
or. Junius F. Wells, President and Joseph
H. Felt, President of Salt Lake Co., Y. M.
M. I. A, his Counselers John W. Taylor and
George C. Lambert, and Heber J. Grant, Secre-
tary. Elder George Goddard, Superintendent
of Sunday Schools, and his Counselors Elders
Wm. Willis and Samuel L. Evans.
	Meeting opened with singing and prayer.
	Elder Joseph H. Felt read a report of the Y.
M. I. A. of the Stake for the quarter, and made
some general remarks on the subject, stating
that there were thirty-six of these associations in
the Stake, all moving on satisfactorily. The
superintendents were now collecting money for
the purpose of erecting a monument to the
memory of Elder Joseph Slanding, who was
martyred by a mob in Georgia. The subscrip-
tions were limited to 25 cents each, so that all
who desired might contribute, and was not
limited to members of these Associations.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Howard read the report of 
the Relief Societies of the Stake for the quar-
ter.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne made a brief verbal report
of the condition of the Societies and the mani-
fest improvement which had been made and
was still in progress through these institutions.
Though the results of the labors of societies seem-
ed small, yet they were [--]i[-]g a quiet but nev-
ertheless powerful influence for the elevation
and enlightenment of the sisters, besides reliv-
ing the poor, administering to the sick and
comforting the sorrowful. Considered it very
important that mothers should study the prin-
ciples of the gospel and apply them in their
own lives that they might be qualified to raise
children that would prove a source of joy to
them and a credit to the cause. She felt thank-
ful for the organizations and had seen great
benefits already derived from the Societies, and
knew that the work of the sisters was a very
important one.

	Mrs. M. A. Freeze read the report of the Y.
L. M. I. A. for the quarter and gave a verbal
report. Said they taught the young ladies to
respect and honor the priesthood and prepare
themselves for positions of usefulness in assist-
ing to establish the Kingdom of God. She felt
they were a great blessing to the daughters of
Zion.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells represented the Pri-
mary Associations as there was no gen-
eral Stake organization as yet. She stated
there were twenty-three of these associations.
There was quite a full attendance at the meet-
ings which were held weekly, at which they
enjoyed an excellent spirit. Some persons
could not yet see the necessity of these associa-

[Column 3]
tions, but she considered they met a want that
was not filled in the Sunday Schools. In these
meetings the very young could express them-
selves to each other, the little ones feeling that
these were their own meetings. The interest
in them was constantly increasing as they be-
came better understood. Too much could not
be done for the young in the right direction,
and early impressions were the most lasting;
but though these associations would accomplish
much good, yet the great labor of training the
children in the fear of the Lord, the foundation
must be laid by the mother, upon her teaching
and example devolved great responsibility.
	Superintendent George Goddard gave a verbal
report of the Sunday Schools, said there were
35 Sunday Schools in this Stake, with 5,000
names enrolled, and an average attendance of
4,000. The object was similar to that of the
other associations that had been represented, to
teach the young to honor respect and obey the
laws and commandments of God. Spoke of the
efforts being made to introduce our own
Church books for the use of the schools. Spoke
of the difficulty of obtaining experienced tea-
chers who would be punctual in attending.
	Prest. Taylor said he felt gratified with the
reports. The Relief Societies had done a great deal
of good in relieving the needy and visiting the
sick. The sisters were better adapted to certain
cases than men would be. They had been in-
defatigable in their labors, and he felt to bless
and encourage them. They should seek to act
in harmony with the Priesthood, conferring
and counseling with the brethren in the per-
formance of their labors in the midst of the
Saints. The other Associations that had been re-
ported were also doing a good work in teaching
the young to avoid error and learn the principles
of truth and virtue. He felt to encourage them,
to inform themselves on all principles that
would elevate them and increase their faith in
God. Not in the so-called enlightenment that
would lead them to deny the existence of a
God. Alluded to the pleasant and commodious
hall in which they were then congregated.
	Elder Junius F. Wells spoke spoke upon the condi-
tion of the Associations, the marked improve-
ment that had been made, and the great num-
ber of the young people who were gifted with
literary ability, which was being developed by
having manuscript papers published in their
respective Associations as well as the Contribu-
tor, the organ of these Associations; thought a
little practice would enable them to handle
almost any subject in a creditable manner.
Referred to the experience it gave to the young
Elders previous to their going out upon mis-
sions, and many other points of special inter-
est.
	Dismissed with singing. Benediction by
Elder Joseph F. Smith.


THE LEGISTLATURE.

	The biennial session of the Legislative As-
embly of Utah Territory, convened at the City
Hall, Jan. 12, at 2 o'clock.
	House called to order by A. Stayner, clerk of
the last House. Lorin Farr was elec d Speak-
er pro tem., A. Stayner, Clerk pro tem., and
E. Griffith; doorkeeper pro tem. Mes r. Fisher,
Sharp and Murdock were appointed a com-
mittee on credentials and returned the follow-
ing list of members holding credentials:
	John R Murdock, Oliver G. Snow, W. B.
Preston, Archibald McKennon, Samuel Fran-
cis, John Fisher, Jesse N. Smith, Joel Grover,
W. D. Johnson, Jr., Daniel Thompson, Orson
Pratt, C. W. Penrose, John Jacques, James
Sharp, Albert Carrington, Archibald Gardner,


[Column 1]

Canute Peterson, Joseph S. Horne, Ward E.
Pack, F. M. Lyman, George D. Snell, W. H.
Dusenberry, Wm. H. Winn, Abram Hatch,
Lorin Farr, D.H. Peery.
	A permanent organization was then effected,
as follows: Speaker, Orson Pratt; Chief Clerk,
A. Stayner; Assistant Clerk, Junius F. Wells;
Enrolling Clerk, Lorinda Weihe; Engrossing
Clerk, Annie Smith; Sergeant-at-Arms, John
Smith; Doorkeeper, Edward Griffith; Messen-
ger, Milson Pratt; Watchman, August Wilc-
ken; Chaplain, Parley P. Pratt.
	Secretary Thomas then administered the
(iron-clad) oath to the members and officers.
The Chaplain then opened by prayer. Hon,
C. W. Penrose moved that the Sergeant at-
Arms be instructed to provide suitable accom-
modations for the press, which was done. A
committee was appointed to confer with His
Excellency, the Acting Governor, and notify
him that the House was organized and in ses-
sion; whereupon His Excellency informed the
House that he would confer with them at 3:15
p. m. The Council was then notified of the
fact, and met the House in joint session to re-
ceive the Governor.
	Acting-Governor Thomas then appeared and
read the following address.
	UTAH TERRITORY, Executive Office,
		Jan. 12, 1880.
GENTLEMEN OF THE COUNCIL AND HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.
	I regret to announce the absence of His Ex-
cellency, Governor Emery, from the Territory.
When he returns he willl probably communi-
cate with you in writing.
	As the acting governor of the Territory,I am
prepared to unite with you in the work of leg-
islation.
	I recommend that you proceed in the usual
manner to appoint your committees, and to
prepare for the general work of the session.
	I transmit herewith for your consideration
the annual reports of the Territorial Auditor
and Treasurer.
	In conclusion, Gentlemen, it will give me
pleasure to co-operate with you in the adoption
of such measures as may be best calculated to
promote the public interest.
	ARTHUR L. THOMAS,
		Acting Governor.
	At 2 o'clock Monday afternoon,the members
elect to the Council branch of the Territorial
Legislation met in the Council Chamber of
the City Hall, and were called to order by Mr.
Chas. W. Stayner.
	After the call of the roll, Councilor L. Snow
moved that Councilor L. E. Harrington tem-
porarily occupy the chair, and his election was
unanimous.
	Councilor Caine moved that Chas. W. Stay-
ner be chief clerk pro tem. Carried.
	Councilor Cluff moved for a committee of
three on credentials, and Messrs. Cluff, Caine
and Fotheringham were chosen, who through
their chairman, reported the following as
entitled to seats.
	William Fotheringham, Lorenzo Snow, M.
W. Merrill, Peter Barton, George Teasdale,
Erastus Snow, Abram O. Smoot L. E.
Harrington, Joseph F. Smith,Daniel H. Wells,
W. W. Cluff John T. Caine. and A. K. Thur-
ber.
	The Secretary of the Territory, Mr. A. L.
Thomas, was, on motion,invited to administer
the customary oath to the members elect,
which being done, Councilor Smith moved to
proceed to a permanent organization. This
resulted in the choice and election of the fol-
lowings:

[Column 2]

	President, Lorenzo Snow; Chief Clerk,Chas.
W. Stayner; Assistant Clerk, W. W. Taylor;
Enrolling Clerk, W. L. Halliday; Engrossing
Clerk, John Boyden; Sergeant-at-arms, Sam-<arms, sam-="" uel="" h.="" b.="" smith.="" doorkeeper,="" w.="" bell;="" messenger,="" howard="" o.="" young;="" watchman,="" helamau’pratt;="" chap-="" lain,="" henry="" g.="" boyle.'="" i="" the="" president,="" who="" had="" previously="" taken'="" oath="" of="" office,="" now="" administered="" obligation="" to="" newly="" chosen="" officers="" council.="" councilorthnrber="" moved="" notify="" house="" permanent="" organization="" council,which="" was="" accordingly="" done.="" a="" communication="" from="" house,="" re-="" questing="" council="" meet="" that="" body="" in="" joint="" cession,="" received,="" where'upon,="" on="" motion,the="" took="" fecess="" and="" adjourned="" representatives="" hall,="" mebt="" fees-="" tion.="" r.="" ‘="" -="" after="" session,="" councilor="" harring-="" ton="" hereafter’="" hours="" .for="" be="" 1="" o'clock="" p'="" m="" ,="" that'when="" adjourns="" it="" that'="" hour.="" carried.="" smith="" hon.="" sec-="" retary="" territory="" respectfully="" requested="" furnish="" members="" each="" with="" copy="" compiled="" laws,="" the.laws="" passed="" at="" last="" ;="" journals="" said="" session.="" wells="" moved,="" house'="" concdrx="" ing,="" sergeant-at-arms="" instructed="" te="" mem-="" bers="" copies="" newspapers="" published="" territory,="" not="" oxceeding="" three="" copies,="" or="" f="" theirequivalent="" semirweefelies="" weeklies;="" also="" penknives.="" readihg="" minutes,-="" coun="" cil="" till="" tuesday.="" tuesday="" january.="" 13.="" convened="" pursuant="" to.,adjournment.="" recieved="" read="" to.="" effect="" passed'="" resolu-="" tion="" both="" houses="" stationery.="" tbe.="" ct="">
uel H. B. Smith.
	Doorkeeper, W. Bell; Messenger, Howard
O. Young; Watchman, Helaman Pratt; Chap-
lain, Henry G. Boyle.
	The president, who had previously taken the
oath of office, now administered the obligation
to the newly chosen officers of the Council. *
* *	Councilor Thurber moved to notify the
House of the permanent organization of the
Council,which was accordingly done. * * *
* *	A communication from the House, re-
questing the Council to meet that body in
joint session, was received, whereupon, on
motion,the Council took a recess and adjourned
to Representatives Hall, to meet in joint ses-
sion.
	After the joint session, Councilor Harring-
ton moved that hereafter the hours for the
Council be 1 o'clock p m , and that when the
Council adjourns it be to that hour. Carried.
	Councilor Smith moved that the Hon. Sec-
retary of the Territory be respectfully requested
to furnish the members and officers of the 
council each with a copy of the Compiled laws,
a copy of the laws passed at the last session,
and a copy of the Journals of said session.
	Councilor Wells moved, the House concurr-
ing, that the Sergeant-at-arms of each house
be instructed to furnish the officers and mem-
bers with copies of newspapers published in
the Territory, not exceeding three copies, or
their equivalent in semi-weeklies or weeklies;
also with penknives.
	After the readihg of the minutes, the Coun-
cil adjourned till 1 o'clock Tuesday.
		Tuesday January 13.
	Council convened pursuant to adjournment.
	A communication was recieved and read to
the effect that the House had passed a resolu-
tion to furnish the members of both houses
with newspapers and stationary. The Coun-
cil concurred in said resolution.
	The President then announced the Standing
Committees of the Council:
	On Judiciary, Claims and Appropriations,
Petitions and Memorial, Revenue, Elections,
Counties, Roads, Bridges, Ferries and Canons,
Engrossing, Education, Printing, Library,
Agriculture, Trade and Manufacture, Militia,
Municipal Corporations and Townships, Gen-
eral Incorporation, Public Domain and School
Lands, Penitentiary, Indian Affairs, Irrigation
and Canals, Postal Affairs, Ponsion, Unfinished
Business, Mineral Resources, Railroads.
	A motion that two hundred copies of the
names and residences of the members of the
Legislative Assembly, together with the names
of the officers and of the standing committees
of both Houses be printed, was carried.
	Council adjourned to meet at 2 P. M.
Wednesday.
	In the session of the House similar Commit-
tees were appointed, and a resolution of the
Council providing for the printing of two
hundred copies of the names and residences
of the members, together with the names
of officers and standing committees, was
adopted.
	Hon. C. W. Penrose presented a petition
signed by Eliza R. Snow, Sarah M. Kimbal
Emmeline B. Wells and fourteen others
praying for the removal of the political disa
bilities of the women of Utah.
To the Honorable Council and House of Rep-
	resentatives of the Legislative Assembly of
	the Territory of Utah.
	Gentlemen—We, your petitioners, residents
of Utah Territory, representing the great ma-

[Column 3]

jority of the women of Utah, respectfully ask
your Honorable Body to remove the political
disabilities of the women citizens of this Terri-
tory.
	Whereas, For the past nine years the women
of Utah have enjoyed and exercised the right
of suffrage, and through practical use of the
elective franchise have become somewhat fa-
miliar with the needs and operations of gov-
ernment, and have not abused the trust reposed
in them by the act of the Legislative Assembly
of 1870, which conferred upon them the right
to the ballot, and
	Whereas, In consequence of the continuance
of the word "mail" in these statutes which de-
fine the qualifications of citizens for holding
office, women citizens are ineligible to hold of-
fice, and entirely debarred from occupying any
official position whatever, however capable or
well qualified they may be, or however desir-
ous the people may become to open the way for
women to offices that they might fill with
honor to themselves, and profit to the Terri-
tory;
	We therefore pray your Honorable Body to
pass some enactment which will remove the
obstacle that now prevents the political freedom
of the women of this Territory.
	Your early attention, as wise legislators, to
this matter, which is of great importance to
us, and to those whom we have the honor to
represent, is earnestly requested, and as in duty
bound.
	Your petitioners will ever pray, etc.
		Signed in behalf of the
			Women of Utah.
	Salt Lake City, Utah, Jan. 10, 1880.
	Referred to the comittee on Petitions and
Memorials.
	The following Bill was presented by Mr.
Penrose; read the first time and referred to the
committee on Petitions and Memorials:
A Bill Removing the Political Disabilities of
	the Women Utah
	SEC. 1.—Be it enacted by the Governor and
Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah:
That section 40 of the Compiled Laws of Utah
is hereby amended by striking out the word
"male" in the seventh line of said section.
	Sec. 2.—Section 1073 of said Compiled Laws
is hereby amended by striking out the word
"male" in the third line of said section.
	Sec. 3.—All laws or parts of laws which dis-
qualify any citizen from holding office on ac-
count of sex are hereby repealed.
	A resolution was adopted instructing the
Sergeant-at-Arms to provide a Webster's un-
abridged Dictionary for the use of the mem-
bers.
	Adjournee until Wednesday at 2 o'clock P.
M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		125


OBITUARIES.

	DIED. At Rockville, Kane County Dec 18th,
1879. in childbirth, Maria De-Grey; beloved
wife of Bishop Chas. N. Smith Aged 39, years,
Deceased was a daughter of John and Maria
De Grey, born in Dudley, Worcestershire,
England, Nov. 21st 1840. became a member of 
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints at the age of 12 years. Emigrated to
Utah, through the exertions of a widowed
mother, walking most of the distance, in 1857.
Adopted with gladness the holy order of
Celestial Marriage, and became the mother of
eleven children all now living to emulate the
virtues, and cherish the sacred memory of a
devoted Mother.
	Sister Maria was First Counselor in the
Rockville Relief Society, and ever cultivated
a profound regard for Zion and her institutions.
And although she was snatched as it were in
a moment from her family and friends in the
prime of womanhood, and a life of usefulness
so suddenly terminated, yet we will humbly
submit to the decree of Him who ordereth all
things well.						C. M. S.

	DIED, At Clifton Idaho Nov. 12th 1879.
After an illness of 18 hours Lucretia Maria


beloved wife of Wm. N. Marier sen., and
daughter of Samuel and Lydia Gates of Bing-
ham Fort, Weber Co. Utah. Deceased was
born Oct. 7th 1837. in Levan Wayne Co.
Michigae. She emigrated to Utah with her
parents in the year 1852; was the mother of
14 children of which 9 are left to mourn her
her loss. She became a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints while
very young was a true and faithful wife a kind
and affectionate mother. She was First
Counselor in the Relief Society of Clifton and
was a live and active woman in the position
She died as she lived a faithful Latter-day.
Saint in the hopes of a glorious resurrection
with the just.
						D. E. DUDLEY.


126		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UTAH SILK ASSOCIATION.

	SALT LAKE CITY, January 10, 1880.

	A meeting of those interested in silk raising
and manufacturing was held this morning at
President Taylor's office, for the purpose of
organizing an association under the general
laws of the Territory.
	The meeting was called to order, Pres. John
Taylor presiding, who said we had met this
morning for the purpose of organizing the silk
business on a firm basis.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young then gave a report of
the condition of the Association.
	The constitution and by-laws to govern the
Association were read and adopted. President
Taylor said we were now ready for the names
of the shareholders. The fellowing ladies and
gentlemen signed their names for shares: Pres.
John Taylor, Wm. Jennings, Wm. H. Hooper,
A. C. Pyper, F. Little, B. Young, O. F. At-
wood, E. R. Snow, Z. D. Young, M. I. Horne,
E. B. Wells, A. O. Smoot, A. M. Musser, R.
Simpson, H. S. Eldredge, John Sharp, P. A.
Schettler, F. Armstrong, AC. . Pyper, J. R.
Winder.
	A motion was made that the chairman
choose the board of directors; carried, with the
following result; Wm. Jennings, Eliza R.
Snow, Wm. H. Hooper, Mrs. Z. D. Young, A.
M. Musser, M. I. Horne, A. C. Pyper.
	On motion, Mr. A. C. Pyper was elected
treasurer, pro tem.
On motion, R. Simpson was elected secretary.
	A motion was made that Wm. Jennings, E.
R. Snow, W. H. Hooper and Z. D. Young
appear before the Probate Judge to make the
necessary arrangements for the incorporation
of the association.
	On motion the meeting was adjourned until
the 17th day of January, at 11 o'clock, sharp.
				R. SIMPSON. Secretary.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

	The Davis Stake Conference of the R. S.
was held at Kaysville, Oct. 16th, 1879.
Present from Salt Lake, Sisters Zina D.
Young and Presendia Kimball. Bishop
Hess of Farmington, Bishop Cook of South
Weber, John Barnes, Counselor to Bishop
Barton, of Kaysville. The Presidency of
the Stake R. S. and others of the brethern
and sisters. Prest. Sarah I. Holmes pres-
iding. After the reading of the minutes
and reports by the Secretary, the presidents
of the Relief Societies verbally reported
their respective districts. Each being re-
presented as being in as good condition as
usual. A few sisters however having all to
do that is done in each society. The pres-
idents seemed full of energy and perseve-
rence.

[Column 2]
	Pres. Rogers of the P. A. of Farmington,
gave quite a lengthy and interesting report
of that organization. Had been organized
more than a year and had made quite an
improvement. They had gleaned a little
wheat, and had raised a few white beans,
President Blood, of the P. A. of the first
and President McFearson of the second
district of Kaysville, each reported her
society as having been organized only one
month, consequently, but little had been
done. Pres. Custin of the P. A. of East
Bountiful, was not present to report.
	Pres. Lorinda Robinson represented the
Stake Silk Association. Only 58 lbs. of
Cocoons, and 10 and one fourth oz. of eggs
were reported which were considered about
one half of what had been raised this sea-
son in Davis Co.
	Pres. Nancy A. Clark reported the Y. L.
A. of the Stake steadily improving. Said
she felt proud of them. She spoke on the
lack of confidence, energy and earnestness
of many otherwise good sisters.
	Bishop Hess thought too much time was
devoted to temporal duties. He had 45,
years experience in this Church, and never
felt a greater need of reformation than at
present, believed that if the few who are
energetic were less so, the majority would
be more soundly asleep than they now are.
	At the opening of the afternoon session,
Pres. Holmes explained the method of in-
corporation which the Silk Association ex-
pected to adopt in the near future. Sister
Clark then read the agreement gotten up
free of charge by Bro. Jos. Barton, Co.
Clerk. It was stated that the shares should
be five dollars each, 25 per cent to be paid
at first.
	Sister Presendia Kimball then made some
very excellent remarks upon various sub-
jects suited to the occasion; all of which
were as instructive as they were interest-
ing, and will long be remembered by her
hearers.
	"Aunt Zina" followed in her gentle
motherly way endorsing the sentiment
which had been uttered, and made other
equally good and encouraging remarks.
Also related some very interesting incidents
which had come under her notice.
	Bishop Cook of South Weber made some
timely remarks upon several subjects
worthy of mention, but I fear I am taking
up too much space, so will not enter into
details further.
	We had a time of rejoicing and a feast
long to be remembered.
	Wishing for the continued success of the
EXPONENT.
				M. E. RICHARDS, Sec'y

	At a Quarterly Conference of the Sevier
Stake of Zion, held last June, we were fa-
vored with a visit from Sisters E. R. Snow
and M. I. Horne, who organized the R. S.
into a Stake organization, with Elizabeth
Bean, President, Jane Spencer and Thirza
Thurbur, Counselors, and Catherine A.
Hunt, Secretary. We have on hand at
date, cash, $12.70; property, $920.80 wheat,
1,097 bushels.
	Most of the societies are in a flourishing
condition, and feel anxious to do all in their
power to forward the interests of Zion. We
have had one Quarterly Conference since.
in which the R. S. were well represented,
and many good instructions given. Our
next Conference is appointed for the 22d
and 23d of January next. With many good
wishes I remain your sister,
		CATHERINE A. HUNT, Secretary.

[Column 3]
	The Quarterly Conference of the various
branches of Relief Societies of Weber Stake
of Zion, convened in the Ogden Tabernacle,
Thursday Dec. 18, 1879. Pres. Jane S.
Richards and Coun. Hattie C. Brown presid-
ing. On the stand were several Bishops
and some of the local authorities of the
Stake also Sisters E. R. Snow and E. B.
Wells of Salt Lake City. After the opening
exercises of singing and prayer, Mrs. E. B.
Wells was elected Secretary pro tem. Coun.
H. C. Brown then read the minutes of the
last Conference, which were accepted. The
Secretary read the quarterly reports from
the various wards of Ogden City and the
different settlements throughout the county.
Remarks were then made by Sister E. R.
Snow in regard to a Treasurer's report for
the Stake; said perhaps she had had noth-
ing confided to her care, therefore she could
make no report.
	Mrs. Brown followed in a short address,
instructive in its nature. Mrs. Wells talked
a little about the training of children and
the great opportunities now afforded women
for cultivation and educarional advance-
ment. Elder D. M. Stuart made some very
interesting and generous remarks upon wo-
man and her work. Bishop Shirtliff, of
Plain City, spoke hopefully and earnestly
upon the subject of woman's influence and
aid in helping to establish righteousness
and promoting all home interests; stated
he had considered very thoughtfully dur-
ing the Conference the nature and object of
these organizations among the women and
children, and the great good to be derived
therefrom. Coun. Middleton .spoke upon
the necessity of harmony in all our rela-
tions; said, "Sisters, your mission is a great
one, if we teach our children true and pure
principles, they will rise up and call us
blessed. We must become so refined that
the angels may come among us."
	Afternoon session: The afternoon was
devoted to the Conference of the Y. L. M.
I. Association and the Primary Associations.
Mrs. Sarah Herrick, President of the Stake
organization, was necessarily absent, and
Mrs. Jane S. Richards presided. Rose Can-
field, Secretary, read the reports from the
Young Ladies' Associations of the Stake,
and some Primary Association reports were
also read, which were all very interesting
and showed that great exertions were being
made for literary and spiritual improve-
ment, several manuscript papers being edit-
ed in the different associations, and consid-
erable being done towards establishing li-
braries. The amount of home reading, as
per reports was indeed wonderful; more
than has ever yet been reported in any other
Stake. It consisted of reading from the
Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Cove-
nants, E. R. Snow's Poems, Women of Mor-
mondom, WOMAN'S EXPONENT and Juve-
nile Instructor. The statistics must be very
satisfactory to those who are interested in
the spiritual educational growth of the
youth of this people.
	Sister E. R. Snow gave a very earnest
and eloquent address on important matters
connected with the interests of the organ-
izations and referred to Pres. Joseph
Smith's having said the Relief Society was
organized after the pattern of the Church;
said it had always existed when the Church
was fully organized, and if the sisters would
carry out his couusel it would become the
most glorious society on the earth. She
spoke of the great necessity of home-mis-
sionary labor, of promoting home indus-
tries, and exhorted the sisters to diligence
in all things.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke upon the interests
of education, the necessity of careful read-


ing, the promotion of home literature, the
need of woman’s understanding for herself
those things which pertain to her welfare
and happiness. Pres. Jane S. Richards
made some excellent remarks on duties,
blessings and labors, and the Conference
was adjourned for three months, with the
urgent request that secretaries send in their
reports properly filled out upon the blanks
printed expressly for that purpose at least a
week before the convening of the Confer-
ence.
		E. B. WELLS, Secretary pro tem.

	Minutes of Quarterly Conference of Y.
L. M. I. Associations of Bear Lake Stake,
held jointly with the Relief Societies in
Paris, Oct. 19, 1879. Pres. Nancy Pugmire
presiding. Singing and prayer. Minutes
of previous Conference read and approved.
Pres. Pugmire then called for verbal re-
ports from the associations six being repre-
sented.
	The spirit of union and confidence being
manifested, which is in reality the best
evidence of advancement and improve-
ment in any grand enterprise. The young
ladies all seem to realize the importance of
gleaning and storing away grain, and have
availed themselves of every opportunity to
this end. We have had considerable sick-
ness in Bear Lake Stake, which has retard-
ed our progress to some extent. Our meet-
ings will now be resumed for the winter
season, and as our motto is upward and on-
ward, we expect to report favorably by
Spring.
	Pres. Pugmire then gave a few general
instructions, exhorted the young ladies to
continue in doing good, and elucidated with
great force that this was the time and place
to improve and clothe our minds, in order
to fit and qualify ourselves for fnture use-
fulness. 
	Bishops Horne, Price and Pugmire, and
Bro. Richard Horne, gave us some good in-
structions; felt to sustain us in our noble
efforts, and if we did not slacken in our
diligence the Lord would certainly bless us.
Singing. Benediction.
				L. M. HART, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		AN ADDRESS. 
BY MRS. A. K. IRVINE, DAUGHTER OF HAD-
LEY JOHNSON, ESQ., AT THE MINERAL
SPRINGS PICNIC—AND READ BEFORE THE
OREGON WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE ASSOCIA-
TlON. 	

[Published by Request of the Woman’s Suffrage Society.]
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
	In approaching the subject of Woman
and her rights, in the last quarter of the
19th century, I should as soon think of
quoting to you the moral and social codes
of a tribe of Australian apes, as to repeat to
you the obsolete traditions and supersti-
tions of a barbarous and ignorant age. The
dead past only belongs to the past, and has
nothing to do with the living present; yet,
examining here with you some of the
rights of woman, it will become necessary
to speak of some of the wrongs that society
inflicted upon her from time immemo-
rial. 
	The question of woman and her rights is
of such magnitude that one is bewildered
and at a loss where to begin, what points to
touch and where to leave off. I wish to re-
mind you that our first great grievance dates
from the foundation of the world. All the
crimes and miseries that have befallen the
[Column 2]
human race, since the creation, are directly
traceable to the first woman’s disobedience,
and some thousands of the women of this
age have decided to demand a new trial.
	I shall bring before you to day some of
the reasons that induce thinking, men and
women to espouse the cause of woman, and
show you, if possible, that the tendencies
of the age are decidedly progressive. It
can make very little difference to any here
what my own personal convictions on these
great questions are, but I propose to give 
you the utterances, opinions and sentiments
of some of the leading thinkers of the
present age. leaving you to accept or reject,
as may seem best to your reason.—We
claim at your hands equal education and
equal representation. It is no longer an
accepted fact that the Creator endowed man
with all the gifts that make life pleasant
and attractive, leaving our sex to grope in
darkness after the fruits of the tree of
knowledge. As early as the year 1810, of
the present century, Sidney Smith, an Eng-
lish Essayist, writing on Female Education
says: “A great deal has been said of the
original difference of capacity between men
and women, as if women were more quick,
and men more judicious; as if women were
more remarkable for delicacy of association,
and men for stronger powers of attention;
all this we confess appears to us very fanci-
ful. That there is a difference in the un-
derstandings of the men and women we
every day meet with every one we suppose
must perceive, but there is none surely
which may not be accounted for by the
different circumstances in which they have
been placed, without referring to conjectural
difference in the original conformation of
mind. As long as boys and girls run about
in the dirt and trundle hoops together they
are precisely alike. If you catch up one-
half of these creatures and train them to a
particular set of actions and opinions, and
the other half to a perfectly opposite sort,
of course their understandings will differ.
It is of great importance to a country that
there should be as many understandings as
possible actively employed within it. Can
anything be more absurd than to suppose
that the tender love which a mother feels
for her children depends upon her ignorance
of Greek and Mathematics, and that she 
would desert an infant for a quadratic equa-
tion. We seem to imagine that we may
break in pieces the solemn institutions of
nature by the little laws of a boarding
school, and that the existence of the human
race depends upon a little more or a little
less knowledge for women.” John Stuart
Mill, another english authority, writing on
subjection of women, says: “As for moral
difference, considered as distinguished from
intellectual,the distinction commonly drawn 
is in favor of woman. They are declared
to be better than men, an empty compliment
which must provoke a bitter smile from
every woman of spirit, since there is no
other situation in life in which it is the es-
tablished rule for the better to obey the 
worse.” Various arguments are brought to 
bear upon women from different sources to
convince them that they are much better as
they are; for instance, John Bright, of Eng-
land, a liberal in religion, tells us that the
priesthood will govern the country if wo-
men are enfranchised—while churchmen,
are busy, with tongue and pen warning the
Christian women of this great country that,
infidelity will surely swallow up the land,
if this movement for equality for woman is
allowed to go on. But all women are not-
dull enough, or indifferent enough, to ac-
cept as infallible the dogmas of either infi-
dels or churchmen, but begin to see as
[Column 3]
“through a glass darkly” that the flimsy
pretences offered for opposing justice to
women will not avail when tried as by fire.
But all liberals are not opposed to that per-
fect equality which we claim for women,
and many noble churchmen are rallying
around the standard of freedom. Bishop
Simpson, of the M. E. Church, has labored
long to instill those principles of truth and
justice, which will finally prevail. In our
State, indeed, in our own vicinity, we can
name a list of earnest, consistent clergy-
men who are glad to say a word for wo-
man's progress. Rev. John Wayman, of
St. Joseph, of the. M. E. Church, never
loses on opportunity to do battle for their
rights. Rev. Mr. Garrison of the Christian
Church, says: “That the time has fully
come for woman to take part in all that
concerns the welfare of the race, and that
nothing can be done with the vice of in-
temperance, until women armed with a
ballot shall assist in settling the vexed ques-
tion.” I could fill page after page with
names of great and good men who have
spent long lives in the study of this un-
solved problem of woman and her rights.
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, who lived to see the
foul blot of African slavery wiped out on
this continent, yet failed to realize his
hopes in regard to woman, thirty years
ago, refused to accept his seat as a delegate
in a Peace Convention in London, England,
because two eminent women were refused
the same honor after having made air ocean
voyage for the purpose; the women were
Lucretia Mott, of Philadelphia, and Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton of New Jersey. 
			(To be continued.)


PIPSEY PAPERS.

	How much trouble our friends are taking
in regard to polygamy. What a bugbear is
being made of it, and how much trouble
they seek to bring upon those whose only
crime is in marrying two or more women
with the free consent of all parties con-
cerned; and raising their families in respect-
ability and honor.
	This generation cannot accept the idea
that God is wise enough to know what is
best for His children, or cares enough for
them to communicate with them now as
He did in days of old. Men want to estab-
lish their own ideas of doctrine, and ways
of thinking. If that be the proper course
why not let us have the same privilege; or,
if we are wrong, convince us of our error by
force of "moral suasion." It is true they
might find us like the lady who was holding
an argument with an eminent Divine."
"I fear madam said he, "you are not open
to conviction." "Oh! yes I am," she re-
plied, "but I should like to see the man
who could convince me." "But says one,
"do the Mormon women really like poly-
gamy?" No doubt many of them regard
it very much as the Englishman did his
greens. He said "they might be whole-
some, but they wern't palatable." (he had
cooked catnip and hoarhound). Notwith-
standing, to many it is not palatable, we all
know it is wholesome, both morally and
physically, but it is something which needs
careful handling, for the more pure and
chaste a thing is the easier it is soiled.
As polygamy itself is one of the purest prin-
ciples revealed by God in these last days, so
it is most susceptible to abuse; and those
who enter it through impure motives will
surely not prosper in this world nor receive
the blessings of God in the next. Speaking
of the women, no doubt they like it as well


[Column 1]
as the men, to whom it brings great care
and responsibility, and who if they simply
desired to gratify the demands of nature,
would prefer doing so in a way that would
not bring the responsibility, or perhaps,
more properly speaking, the consequences, 
on themselves.
	No man can marry even one wife, under
this Republican Government, without first
gaining her consent; how then will he
marry more, unless they are willing to
marry him. It can no longer be said, they
are tricked or fooled into it: that idea has
been done away with long ago, and women
are not such silly things as they were once
supposed to be. Love is a Divine attribute,
and it is woman's nature to love and desire
love.
	How much better that she should form a
virtuous attachment even though several
women should claim one man’s protection,
than silence the craving of her heart, drying
up the fountain of life and joy, or lavish
the wealth of her affections on some un-
worthy object who would cast her adrift on
the world a thing to be scorned and des-
pised, sinking continually lower in the
slough of degradation and misery.
	We accept polygamy as a revelation from
God, and hold it sacred as its nature de-
mands. We cannot do otherwise while we
believe Mormonism at all. There are
many who rebel, and determine never to
marry in it; but they seldom do better, and
sooner or later do the very thing they de-
termined not to do, or leave the Church
entirely.
	There was a young lady of my acquain-
tance who was sure she would never become
a plural wife, she would rather die. She
changed her mind, is a third wife, and
thinks her husband and baby are the nicest
of any.
	Some marry good men who die young
leaving them with small children, and no
one to provide for them. A single man
will seldom marry a widow but I firmly be-
lieve they find themselves much happier
in the family of some good man, than strug-
gling alone to provide for their little ones.
	There are some who will not marry a
Mormon for fear he will get more wives:
but when an outsider comes along, with
velvet lips and honeyed words, they mar-
ry him and in six months, a year or more
as the case may be, he has "pressing busi-
ness" elsewhere. Some are known to
return to their wives in the East others to
wander away and are never heard from
again,while the poor women are left, helpless
enough with one or two children to support,
and no father to care for them. Such
instances are not rare, even now when our
people are supposed to be more cautious in
regard to strangers than formely.
	What would become of these women in
the world. Much no doubt would depend
on their education and surroundings.
Some would "go to the bad." But few
would marry again. Here they marry into
respectable families, and live to review
their folly, wiser, for their sad experience.
	These are not the only classes that be-
come plural wives, no indeed! There are
many honest in heart, pure in their motives
and intentions, who accept it as a Divine
law and marry the men of their choice, re-
cognizing fully patriarchal family ties,
living happily, and raising beautiful famil-
ies; and where all parties are agreed who
shall condemn? True, there are many
trials in plural marriage, and many who
enter it are not wise enough to know the
right course, or brave enough to pursue
it: but there is a day coming when we shall

[Column 2]
see as we are seen, and know as we are
known. Then, "justice will be tempered
with mercy, and the crooked paths will be
made straight." Then perhaps, "They
that wear the cross below, shall wear the
crown above."				MARY.


128		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDWARD Eggleston says: "In no period
previous to our own could it be said that
the greatest English writer of English prose
was a woman. This distinction fairly be-
longs to George Eliot."

	THE death of William Hepworth Dixon,
the writer and traveler, and long editor of
the London "Athenœum," is announced.
The cause of his death was apoplexy.

	SENATOR G. F. Hoar has bought the land
at Princeton, Mass., on which John Hoar,
an ancestor, once redeemed a captive, Mrs.
Rowlandson, from the Iudians. A bowlder,
cailed "Redemption Rock," lies upon this
land, and on this bowlder a suitable inscrip-
tion has been cut.—Ex.

	THE officers of the Iowa Woman Suffrage
Society are as follows: President, Mrs. M.
C. Callahan, Des Moines; Corresponding
Secretary, Mrs. C. F. Harkness, Humboldt;
Recording Secretary, Mrs. M. A. Work,
Des Moines; Treasurer, Mrs. M. J. Green,
Des Moines.

	MRS. Mary A. Pell, of South Carolina,
will be one of the delegates to the Wash-
ington Convention. Mrs. Harriet S. Brooks,
of Nebraska, has signified her intention of
being present. Elizabeth Boynton Harbert,
of Chicago, has also so written. Mrs. Stan-
ton will be accompanied by her daughter,
Harriet Eaton Stanton, a recent graduate
from the Boston School of Oratory. Penn-
sylvania will send Edward M. Davis, Lu-
cinda B. Chandler, Lydia L. Whiteman,
Misses Julia and Rachel Foster. New York
will, as usual, be fully represented. Miss
Anthony, having reserved convention days
from her engagements, will be present.
New York City will send delegates. Eliza-
beth Avery Meriwether, of Tennessee, may
be there. Elizabeth L. Saxon, of New Or-
leans, will, for the first time, attend a na-
tional convention. The women of the
South are rapidly wakening to their need
of the ballot, and, their friends prophesy,
will go "with a rush, when once they break
away from Mrs. Grundy."
	The means to be adopted to secure from
each political party the recognition af wo-
man's claim to self-government, will be dis-
cussed at this convention; planks proposed
for presidential platforms, and candidates
canvassed.—Ex.


[Column 1]
HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and w[-]thont any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading [-]huttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-]f and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

NEW HOME-MADE GOODS,
For Sale at the Old Constitution Building,
Salt Lake City.
	Plain Centre Shawls, Fine Grey, Red and White Yarn,
Plain Grey Flannel, Check Waterproof, Mottled Blankets,
Shoulder Shawls, Red Twilled Flannel, Fine White [--]an-
nel. Etc. Making our Stock of Woolen Goods Com-
plete.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry   Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardward and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.					97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake Ci


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

