VOL. 8.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1879.		NO. 8.


MIZPAH.

"God watch between me and thee, when we are absent
one from another."	(Genesis XXXi, 49,)

I had a friend; to whom I said farewell!
And then the way seemed lone and dark for me;
The unknown future none save God could tell;
To me;—'twas all one great, grand mystery.
My very soul was weak, the way was long,
My tears fell fast, until my sight grew dim,
I only knew that God was wise and strong,
And pray'd that I might ever trust in Him.

I knew that life was full of grief and pain;
And I had lost my trusted one—my guide;
I felt that we, no more, should meet again,
Until we landed "on the other side."
A little while my nature needs must grieve,
Or to my woman's heart be most untrue,
And then, God helping me, I would believe
That He knew best, what each of us should do.

And then I said, I'll build an altar here,
And "Mizpah" write, e'en as 'twere made of stone,
That God may keep a watch, forever near,
And bless the friendship, that we two have known.
A pledge of constancy, then let it be,
That my fidelity and faith shall prove,
And "Mizpah" sweetest word shall breathe to me,
An earnest, of the truest human love.

In all the years long past, so bleak and drear,
When sorrow prest most heavy on my heart;
Though friends were cold, and trials hard to bear,
Still to my soul this word would strength impart.
Yes, "Mizpah" was a talisman to me,
That kept my feet from wandering far astray,
And gave me over self, the victory,
When darkness shrouded all the lonely way.

Yet life has not been always dark, or sad,
Good angels brought me ofttimes sweetest flowers
And blessings which have made my spirit glad,
Have shed their sweetness on life's precious hours,
But round the shrine which my devotion rear'd,
And dedicated to affection true,
Cling tender hopes by promises endear'd
That soothe my spirit all life's journey through.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells				EMILE.


[Column 1]
AFTER LONG YEARS.

LETTER IX.

I wandered through the halls of memory,
	And as my footsteps trod the solemn way
	I search'd each crevice for its treasury,
Wherein were hid the gems I'd laid away.

	It is an extremely pleasant thing when
we are resting to have some interesting
subject to reflect upon, and as people ad-
vance in years their thoughts are very apt
to revert to their past life and its peculiar
phases and many exigencies. With those
who have accumulated wealth, the thoughts
often rest upon the ways and means em-
ployed, the industry, thrift and business
enterprise they have practiced, and the
competition with others struggling for the
same purpose; but with this class we are
not specially in sympathy. If their wealth
is their all, their entire stock, then we can
pity them, for although it may be and is a
very good thing to have plenty of this
world's goods, yet these are not the best
treasures we can lay up in store.
	Indeed no; the record of good deeds and
happiness bestowed upon others will give
us more true pleasure than all else. It is
well to call to mind occasionally our own
lives, and examine our records; see whether
they are what we desire to make them, and
if we have made some mistakes, committed
some errors, seek to compensate for them

[Column 2]
by being more just, generous, charitable
and tender of our fellow-beings in the fu-
ture.
	I often hear the remark, "The past I have
nothing to do with, the future is mine;"
but I always think we can perhaps make
some amends if we look over our old ac-
counts, can pay off some old scores that
otherwise might stand against us. If there
are any lessons to be learned in this way,
any true balance that can be made, we
should be careful to make it.
	But when one can quietly sit down and
recall the memory of good deeds, of gener-
ous acts, of noble examples, there must be
true happiness in it. No matter how se-
vere the self-denial or self-discipline may
have been that it required. So much the
better, and so much more heroism does it
evince. If under adverse circumstances
one can attain to a sublimity of action, there
must be a corresponding degree of enjoy-
ment, and this, heightened by a sense of
the superiority over one's natural selfish-
ness, will give an impetus to character
which will strengthen similar efforts in the
future, and awaken emulation in the hearts
of others.
	Good deeds are the bright spots in our
lives to which after long years, when we
are perhaps grown weary with many cares
and perplexities, we can always look back
and gaze upon with complacency. They
are the pictures which hang upon the walls
of our inner dwelling-places, that give tone
to the sometimes dismal and dingy apart-
ments, or compensate in part for the rough-
ness of their finish. These are the trea-
sures which never burden us, never press
heavily upon our consciences. The angels
take note of these for us, and we need
never fear results. Time can never obliter-
ate them, for they are utterly imperishable,
storms and rude blasts are powerless to de-
face them, no enemy, however bitter, can
destroy them, they are a living witness for
those who have wrought them. We cannot
have too many of these precious treasures,
they are not cumbersome, in the long,
dreary days, if such should be our lot,
when sleepless nights and weary vigils
come; the remembrance of these good
deeds will cheer our hearts and give us
fresh vigor of spirit, for we shall feel we
have not lived in vain, but that our life has
been a blessing to others, and that we have
sown some good seed, which may spring
up into everlasting life.
							AUNT EM.
	[handwritten] E. B. Wells


NOTES AND NEWS.

 ON TUESDAY, Aug. 26, there was a large
Suffrage meeting at Worcester, Mass. Very
able speeches were made by Hon. George
Hoar, Miss Eastman and Col. T. W. HIg-
ginson.
 MISS WORDSWORTH, daughter of the 
Bishop of Lincoln and grand-niece of the
poet, is to be the principal of the college
for young ladies that is to be established at
Oxford.--EX.
 MRS. E. M. PIKE is said to be the first
women who ever started a daily paper in
England.  She is publisher and proprietor
of the "Derby Daily Telegraph," an eve-
ning paper, and the first paper published in 
the town of Derby.--EX.
 A NIECE and amanuensis of Thomas Car-
lyle, the author, was married on Thursday,
Aug. 28, to her cousin, Alexander Carlyle,
of Brentfield, Ontario.  The ceremony was
performed  at Dumfries, Scotland; her un-
cle, the author, was present at the wedding.
--Ex.
 A CINCINNATI lady, Mrs. Mary Gano
Burnett, writing of her school days  and of
Lafayette's reception in the Western city,
says:  "I was one of those that walked in
the Lafayette procession, and we wore green
sunbonnets instead of calashes.  They were
all lined with pink crape inside, which gave
us a very rosy appearance.  We also had
broad blue sashes, with "Lafayette" on the
tips, and the same on the back of our gloves.
Our slippers had the same decoration."

 ITALY IS preparing to extend the suffrage
to every citizen above twenty-one years of 
age who can read and write.  Signor Salva-
tore Morelli, a member of the Italian Par-
liament, has proposed that women who ful-
fill the legal qualifications required of
electors shall be admitted to the suffrage.
Petitions in favor are receiving the signa-
tures of a large number of women.--EX.

 THE "BALLOT BOX" tells how our rulers
in Congress do business, "At the last ses-
sion of Congress, after passing the Legisla-
tive Appropriation Bill, *  *  the Senate
adjourned to attend a horse-race at Balti-
more.  Women were taxed to pay for this 
fun.  How do you like it, women? you who,
many of you, are struggling to live?  If
you don't like it work for representation.
Now you are in the hands of your political
masters and must submit to their methods
of spending your money."

 THE WASHINGTON Correspondent of the
"National Citizen and Ballot Box,"  Mrs.
Sara Andrews Spencer, whom we know to
be a most estimable lady and well acquaint-
ed with the state of society in the Capital,
has a very interesting letter in the Septem-
ber number of that journal, entitled "Home-
less Mothers and Nameless Children,"
which shows up briefly in its true light the 
condition of women who are uurepresented.
She says:  "After the adjournment of each
Congress, as the vast floating population
leave the city, I dread to hear my door-bell
ring.  Young girls from the hospital, with
infants in their arms, ruined and deserted,
homeless, friendless, utterly helpless, come
day after day asking the same sad question,
'Is there any place for me to go?  Would
anybody take me with my baby?'  No, no,
no; nobody wants either of you.  Keep
your treasure, young mother.  The father
will never appear to claim it. *  * But
where shall I go?'  God only knows.  I had
five little babies in my care last week, while
the mothers, weak from want of food, were
trying to get work.  And still they come.
These tragedies of weakness, ruin and de-
sertion never cease.  Yet the great world
takes no note.  These are only friendless
women."


58		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS. 

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	SNIDERVILLE, PARLEY'S PARK.
		July 9th, 1879. 
	Our Relief Society, have had a very en-
couraging visit from President Sarah S.
Richards. and her Counselors, Sisters
Reynolds and Roundy. After singing and
prayer Sister Richards wished to here
from some of the sisters present. Sister
Harriet Chapman and Sister Wright, made
some appropriate remarks. Coun. Reynolds,
then bore her testimony to the truth of
this work, and exhorted the sisters to be
faithful and live for the kingdom of God,
and righteousness. For what are riches of
this world compared to eternal life.
	Coun. Roundy said she was surprised and
very much pleased to see so many sisters;
she did not think there were so many in this
place. She spoke of the care mothers
should have over their children, they
should avoid using bad language before
them, and must teach them to pray that
they may be guided aright. She told the
sisters not to let little things keep them
away from their meetings, and counseled
us to pay our donations freely and to teach
our children to pay donations top.
	Pres. Richards said she hoped the sisters
would be prayerful and be united in their
Society and she felt that we should do
much good;she asked the sisters to be care-
ful what they said of one another and if they
couuld not say any thing good, say nothing
at all. She promised to come in a month
and organize us. We also expect to have a
Young Ladies’Society organized at the same
time.
	Our beloved Bishop, then made a few
remarks said he was well pleased with
the sisters meeting and hoped the Saciety
would prosper in Snyderville, remembering
“it is better late than never.” And he
would always be on hand to help us all he
possibly could.
	Brother Bradbury and Brother Snyder,
followed with very encouraging remarks
and were well pleased with the meeting.
	Ever praying God to abnndantly bless
you, is the desire of your sister in the 
Gospel of Christ;  
		Zelnora Chapman.
			Acting Sec’y.

	WALLSBURG
Editor Exponent:

	We held our annual meeting July 2lst,
Sister Nancy Wall, resigned her position as
President, on account of moving away: we
were reorganized as fellows; Elizabeth
Clifton, President; Polly Meacham, and
Almira Duke, Counselors; Sarah Glenn,
and Lucina Boren Secretaries; Mary Kerby,
Treasurer.	
	Our Society numbers fifty two members.
We are trying to keep up with the spirit of
the times and perform our duty.
 	We hold our meetings semi-monthly.
The grass-hoppers have destroyed our crops
here. We may not be able to add much to
our store of wheat this season. We have
built a good, substantial granary, worth
forty dollars, we have stored one hundred
and twenty six bushels and twenty four
pounds. We own eleven shares in the Co-
op store $55[-]00, other property on hand $40
[-]00. Total $95[-]00, Disbursed, $8,05.
	With success to all who labor for the
cause of Zion we remain your sisters in the
Gospel.
		SABAH GLENN.
		LUCINA BOREN, 	}Secretaries.

[Column 2]
Editor Exponent:	
	The fifth Quarterly Conference of the
Davis Stake Relief Society, was held at
Farmington July 17, 1879, Pres. Sarah I.
Homes presiding. Present, Elders' Israel
Barlow, of East Bountiful, James Loynd,
E. T. Clark, and Freeman Leonard of Farm-
ington. The afternoon was entirely oc-
cupied with the written and verbal reports
of the different Societies; including the
Y. L. A's of the Stake; the P. A’s of East
Bountiful and Farmington All were repre-
sented as doing well.
	The afternoon speakers were, Sisters C.
M. Barlow, Zelnora Glover, Aurelia S.
Rogers, and Mary L Clark. Also Brothers 
Israel Barlow, and Jas. Loynd. Pres. S. I.
Homes made the closing remarks.
	The speakers dwelt upon the subjects, of
plurality of wives, humility, prayer, union,
confidence, etc, etc. A general good feel-
ing and spirit prevailed and the rich instruc-
tions given were received with marked
attention.
		MINERVA E. RICHARDS, Sec'y


[Column 1]
				[For the EXPONENT.
FINDING FAULT WITH OLD FOLKS.

	I feel constrained to write on this subject,
incidents having come under my observa-
tion which impressed me with a sense of
the injustice of such a practice. Long-
established habits! what power and influ-
ence they have over aged persons. And
yet many young people imagine that by
criticism, dictation, and a little ridicule
about "odd ways," they can bring old peo-
ple on a plane with themselves, and get
them to adopt their habits, which are so
much "higher toned" then the old prosy
ways of fifty years ago. People as they
grow old grow more sensitive; the burdens
of life weigh heavily upon their worn spir-
its, and they yearn for tenderness and love
from the young and strong, whom they
have, perhaps, borne about in their arms in
childhood, and soothed with loving words,
and now they need the same in return.
	I know some old persons who at times
are really embarrassed and intimidated by
the criticisms of their grown children, who
in presence of their would-be smart asso-
ciates, ridicule their parent's "old-fashioned
ways." The wise man says, "rise up before
the aged, and honor grey hairs." I have
always been thankful to my mother for
teaching me correct habits, and especially
for instructing me to honor and respect the
aged, to do all in my power to bless and
comfort them. I remember in my youth-
ful days I went far away from my mother
to attend school in New Hampshire. I
boarded with a lady milliner, who had a
kind heart, and she had an aged mother,
who all her life had known affliction, in con-
sequence of having a cruel husband. The
daughter sometimes spoke unguardedly to
her mother; then oh, how she would re-
proach herself, on a moment's reflection!
She adored her mother. There was an
aged man in the neighborhood, whom we
called "Father Doolittle;" he was a sorrow-
ful man. He was attracted to me because
I was a religious girl. I listened to his
tale of woe, which he would relate with
tears streaming from his eyes. There was
at one time in Massachusetts a religious
sect organized, called "New Lights; " they
believed in having spiritual husbands and
wives. His wife became enamored with
her spiritual teacher, forsook her husband
and nine children, left home in the absence
of her husband and eldest daughter, and

[Column 2]
started with her lover for the State of New
York. Oh! it was a sad story. I was a
very young girl, but withal religious; I
thought of my mother's teachings. I was
intent on pouring the balm of consolation
into the wounded spirit of the poor old
man. His eldest daughter had helped to
raise the family. The good man loved the
Bible and hymnbook. He would walk a
mile every week to get me to read the Bi-
ble and sing hymns with him; his voice
was broken, but I would not for the world
have laughed at his singing. He lived
with his children, and good and loving
children they were, and they loved and
praised me for trying to soothe the sorrows
of their poor father, and because I pitied
the lonely man, who all his life mourned
for his fallen wife.
	There is a sequel to the story, which I
will write another time. Permit me to add
a word of counsel to my young readers:
"Speak gently to the aged;" soothe their
sorrows all you possibly can; then shall
you be comforted when your eyes grow
dim and your limbs tremble with age.
Peace will flow to your hearts when you
remember how you showed mercy to some
sorrowing soul, and so it shall be done unto
you. "Speak gently to the aged.'
						L. B. PRATT.
	BEAVER, Sept. 5, 1879.


THREE CLASSES OF WOMEN.

	Women are divided into three classes:
The weak-minded, malicious or strong-
minded, or practical.—Indianapolis Herald.
	Are they born so, or does their education
develop them? To which class does your
daughter belong? Are you teaching her to
be practical or strong-minded, (being the
least objectionable)? Do you oversee her
studies, amusements, and companions? Do
you instill into her mind a love of truth
and honor? Are you truthful?—else your 
influence will be a failure. Do you teach
her to be useful in the home? encourage
her love for younger children? teach her by
example to work with her hands and ar-
range the disagreeable parts in such light
that by doing it she will add to her own
self-respect, and not fancy, like many ill-
taught women, that work done by hand
lowers them in the state of life.
	Suppose your daughter at eighteen or
twenty your ideal of true womanhood; is
loveable in the house; has graduated with
honors; is a good housekeeper; can enter-
tain handsomely; is your own and her
father's valued pride; also qualified to take
a fair business position, in what class would 
you place her?
	If you have an object to reach in business
you keep that aim in view and strive by
every lawful means to overcome all obsta-
cles; and yet, in the most important of works
the training of your daughters, how we
leave them to circumstances, forgetting
the work is open to woman as well as man,
and that extra care must be taken to fit
them for their new position. Guard them
from every means to facilitate their pro-
gress, attend most carefully to health and
habits, all these points are "mothers care."
Let us ponder them in our hearts and speak
with each other through the dear HOME.
	Ex.				MRS. R. C. L.


IF you would relish food, labor for it be-
fore you take it; if you enjoy clothing, pay
for it before you wear it; if you would sleep
soundly, take a clear conscience to bed with
you.—Franklin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		59


HUMILITY.

When Mary chose "the better part."
	She meekly sat at Jesus' feet;
And Lydia's gently opened heart
	Was made for God's own temple meet.
		Fairest and best adorned is she
		Whose clothing is humility.

The Saint that wore heaven's brightest crown
	In deepest adoration bends;
The weight of glory bows him down
	The most, when most his soul ascends.
		Nearest the throne itself must be
		The footstool of humility.
									MONTGOMERY.


[For the EXPONENT.
MAY WE BE TRUE.

May we be true, and faithful too
To serve the Lord our God,
And him obey without delay
Nor need his chast'nig rod.

May we delight to honor those
Who do the priesthood hold,
That live for right, and not for might,
For truth, instead of gold.

We'll watch and pray, both night and day
And God his peace will give,
To those who seek to honor him.
And strive as saints to live.

May we as children of one God
Unite our hands and hearts,
And God will surely bless each one
That seeks to do his part.

We'll purge ourselves of ev'ry sin,
And purify our souls;
And fit ourselves to enter in
Our Heavenly Father's fold.

							ANNIE BOWRING.
Brigham City, Aug. 27, 1879.


[Column 1]
GOOD MANNERS.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	We promised our readers a continuation
of articles on etiquette and extracts from
the best book on that subject—Mrs. Ward's
Sensible Etiquette.
	"Zimmerman tells us that to entertain
and benefit readers, authors must deliver
freely in writing that which, in the general
intercourse of society, it would be impos-
sible to say either with safety or politeness.
They may even decompose the state of their
own minds, he adds, and make observa-
tions on their own characters for the benefit
of other men, rather than leave their bodies
by will to professors of anatomy."
	"It is when our faults are held up to view
so that we can in a small degree see our-
selves as others see us, and aim to correct
our errors and shortcomings, and our man-
ners, that we may attain a greater excel-
lence in all that is elevating and refining.
It is the prerogative of the writer to impress
those who read with the language of truth,
and express plainly his, or her thoughts
upon the manner and conduct of society, as 
mingling in it, one must impose silence
upon themselves in regard to these subjects.
Consequently are they left for the author;
and if he does his duty in this respect he
is deserving of thanks, for he saves us all
from much that is unpleasant."
	Thoughtlessness is as much vulgarity as
ignorance, and deserves more severe con-
demnation. We are not as much to blame
for ignorantly committing an error as we
are for neglecting that which we know to
be a duty because of lack of thought, or
consideration for others.
	We are capable of much more than we
are apt to imagine, and when placed in cir-

[Column 2]
cumstances which compel us to exercise
latent faculties, we begin to comprehend
something of the power of the human soul
and will.
	We should be polite from an innate con-
viction that it is a part of the true charac-
ter, which belongs to the eternal beauty
which will exist forever; and also that it
is a duty we owe to those with whom we
associate, and an expression of love to our
neighbor, which our Savior gave as a com-
mandment.
	It may seem to some of our readers that
it is uncalled for to write articles upon eti-
quette, but even though we may all know
these little trifles, we need to be occasion-
ally reminded of them, as we all do of our
daily duties and obligations. There is a
host of children growing up in this com-
munity, and as it cannot be expected that
all parents have time or inclination to teach
them all that is expected of them in So-
ciety; it is therefore absolutely necessary
that they should be instructed by reading.
"Those who ridicule this sort of drilling,
who refuse to adopt the forms that the cul-
tivated adopt, not only expose their own
deficient training, but their conduct gives
increased testimony to the necessity that
exists for a more general understanding of
those laws of social life which, like the
laws of the universe, prevent all things
from returning to chaos. Some of these
laws of social life, like the laws of civil
life, differ in different lands; although not
those that are the most essential in the
regulation of conduct and behavior. Every-
where children are taught that affectation
and pretence are vulgarities; that it is a
vulgarity to yawn without making some
effort to suppress it; *	* to whistle or
hum in the presence of older persons,
whether in railway cars or in houses, or to
make any monotonous noise with feet or
hands, beating time, etc.; to play with nap-
kin rings, or with any article at the table
during meal time; to pick the teeth with
the fingers; to cut or clean the nails out-
side of one's dressing-room; to lounge any-
where in the presence of company; to
place the elbows on the table, or to lean
upon it while eating; to take hold of per-
sons or to touch them with familiarity while
talking with them; to speak of absent per-
sons by their first names, when you would
not so address them if they were present:
to acquire the habit of saying "you know,"
"says he," and "says she;" to use slang
words; to tattle; to scratch the head or
person; to whisper in company; to hide
the mouth with the hand when speaking;
to point at any one or anything with the fin-
gers; to stare at persons; to laugh at one's
own stories or remarks; to toss articles in-
stead of handing them, and to take any-
thing without thanking the one who waits
upon you (excepting at table), be it a supe-
rior, an equal, or an inferior. Everywhere,
also, children are taught that it is a rude-
ness to stand in the way, without instantly
moving when another tries to pass; not to
say "I beg pardon" when you have in any
way inconvenienced some one; starting up
suddenly and running from the room with-
out asking to be excused; going before
older persons, who are entitled to precede
you, when leaving a room with them; leav-
ing the table with food in the mouth. tak-
ing possession of a seat that belongs to an-
other, and not rising instantly upon his re-
turn; leaving any one without saying
"good-bye," or giving at least a bow; in-
terrupting any one in conversation; contra-
dicting, pushing, or even coming in con-
tact with another unintentionally, without
begging pardon for the seeming rudeness;

[Column 3]
want of punctuality; neglecting to answer
notes and letters promptly, especially those
requiring information; ridiculing others;
passing any one whom you know without
speaking, with whom you are on speaking
terms; keeping the hat on in the house in
the presence of a lady; and many others
too numerous to mention, are regarded
either as vulgarities or as rudeness. They
denote want of early training, or a coarse
nature, not susceptible of refinement, for
manners are the fruits of mind."

	These are a few of the very simplest
things pertaining to our daily intercourse
with each other in the family and social re-
lation. They are easily acquired by all, and
yet how often they are neglected. Want
of thought, and sometimes, we think, of
self-respect, as well as that genuine love
for others, and consideration for their feel-
ings, which should characterize the soul of
every true man and woman, are the causes,
and when we become indifferent to all the
little trifles which beautify life and make
our homes pleasant and our hearts light,
we may look in vain for the great blessings
which we desire. Everything has its foun-
dation in the little grains that make up the
whole, and home happiness and the plea-
sures of society depend much more upon
what we call trifles than we are apt to im-
agine. Then let us who profess to be
brothers and sisters of one great family,
study to observe the laws of politeness and
good breeding, and be careful to avoid all
that would in any way wound another, or
cause us to lose our own self respect. I am
aware that these things are often alluded to
as mere forms, but they are the sure index
to the feelings, and if we are always care-
ful to observe the little civilities we owe to
each other, it will save us much unpleas-
antness and many an explanation, perhaps
apology, and we shall be better satisfied
with ourselves when we feel we have, even
in the smallest matter, done "to others as we
would they should do to us."

(To be continued.)


A QUAKER PRINTER'S PROVERBS—
Thou shouldst not rap at the door of a
printing office, for he that answereth the
rap sneereth in his sleeves and loseth time.
	Never send an article for publication
without giving the editor thy name, for
thy name oftentimes secures publication to
worthless articles.

	Never do thou loaf about nor knock down
type, or the boys will love thee as they do
the shade trees—when thou leavest.
	Thou shouldest never read the copy on
the printers case, or the sharp and hooked
container thereof, or he may knock thee
down.
	Never inquire of the editor for news, for
behold he will give it to thee at the ap-
pointed time without thee asking for it.
	It is not right that thou shouldst ask him
who is the author of an article, for it is his
duty to keep such things unto himself.
	When thou dost enter his office, take
heed unto thyself that thou dost not look
at what concerns thee not, for that is not
meet in the sight of good breeding.
	Neither examine thou the proof-sheet,
for it is not ready to meet thine eye that
thou mayst understand.
	Thou shouldst not delude thyself with
the thought that thou hast saved a few
cents when thou hast secured a dead-head
copy of his paper; for whilst the pirnter
may smile and say it is all right, he will
never forget thy meanness.


60		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 15, 1879.


[Column 1]
"LEADING CAPTIVE SILLY WOMEN."

	We find in the "Watchman" of Aug. 22, a
religious paper ably edited and conducted in
the city of Boston, articles on Mormonism
which contain some very ridiculous paragraphs.
The writer, among other things, says, "Stand-
ing, one of a multitude of Mormon preachers
who have for more than a generation gone up
and down the land 'leading captive silly wo-
men,' has been murdered in Georgia, and the
popular verdict is he deserved it."

"What if the popular breath should damn the sun
In his meridian glory?—dost thou think
His beams would fall less brightly?"

	We cannot help thinking that it is very little
for a religious paper, edited by a Christian
minister professing to be a follower of Jesus,
thus to condemn a young man, a mere boy in
years, because, forsooth, popular opinion was
against him.
	We knew Elder Joseph Standing personally,
and we can but blush for this Divine who thus
bemeans himself in falsely speaking of this hon-
est, virtuous, industrious youth. Even though
he believed him deluded and preaching erro-
neous doctrine, let his life, his morals and his
conduct speak for him, and they are blameless;
he was an innocent, inoffensive, modest young
man. No breath of wrong-doing was ever
uttered against him. He has sealed his testi-
mony with his blood, and how cruel to call up
his name in connection with silly women.
He has a father, mother, brothers and sisters
and many dear friends who mourn his loss, and
it is adding insult to injury to speak of him as
this Christian minister has done.
	The writer says: "The horrible system (Mor-
monism) had its origin here, but its growth is
not from American material. The poorer
classes of England and Wales contribute to it
more largely than any other." We beg to
differ with him, knowing more than he does
of the proportion of American people here.
	After some more false reasoning on this sub-
ject he goes on to say, "Thus it happens that
Mormonism, as it exists to-day, is chiefly a
British product. But almost all the nations of
Europe, and some in other parts of the world,
minister more or less to its rapidly growing
power. But polygamy is unlawful. All these
foreign Mormons, though they have thought
little about it, have assented to it." And mnch
more in the same strain. Evidently this wri-
ter believes not only in people being con
demned without a hearing, but in his estima-
tion they are actually criminals because they
accept the doctrine that teaches them "faith,
repentance and baptism." They are not con-
demned for any wrong they have actually com-
mitted, but for their intentions, and really be-
fore they have any POSITIVE intentions. This,

[Column 2]
then, is the land of boasted religious liberty!
This is the result of the sacrifices and hard-
ships endured by our Pilgrim fathers and Pil-
grim mothers, to establish the freedom of con-
science!
	Furthermore, the writer says, "The men, if
they become rich enough, will establish
harems. The women, in order to hold land
and vote, will swear that they are married, and
in order to avoid the penalties of the law will
call themselves by their maiden names."
These are the silly women he refers to; now,
it really seems to us, and we must acknowledge
we are acquainted with the facts concerning
Mormon women, that he lacks information in
regard to them and their affairs.
	There is no such place as a harem in Utah;
in Utah there are homes, such as they have in
New England, and there are plenty of Yankee
women—you find them in every settlement—
and the elements of New England character
abound in their children. Mormon women
are not ignorant, nor deluded, nor degraded,
they are intelligent; and if they do vote and
hold land in their own right, who is going to
hinder it? Did anybody else earn it? or have
any of those who feel so badly about it helped
in any way to subdue this desert land? If not,
let them hold their peace. If these "poor,
silly women" know enough to vote, and hold
land, it is certain they have surpassed those
who sit idly down and become a dead weight
in the community; it proves that they are not
so very, very silly. Usually women who com-
pose harems are idle creatures, who depend en-
tirely upon some man who feeds and clothes
them; now, can the editor of the "Watch-
man" find a community of women as self-sus-
taining and generally intelligent on all sub-
jects pertaining to practical life and its duties
as Mormon women, taking the American and
foreign women "en masse?" We are really
sorry he is not better posted about Mormon
women.
	There is proof here of the education the bal-
lot affords; no person who will travel through
Utah, with their eyes open, can fail to see how
intelligent women become who have had the
practical education the ballot gives. We ven-
ture to say there are more women here, accord-
ing to the population, who have read the Con-
stitution of the United States understandingly
than in any other place. The organizations of
women holding regular meetings in every part
of this Territory, even in the most remote dis-
tricts, has given to those in all conditions, and
of all classes, opportunities of becoming ac-
quainted with the laws and government of the
country, and also educated them in many
things which pertain to "life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness," that married women
among the laboring classes do not enjoy in so
large a degree in America, or England.
	We respectfully ask that Mormon women be
allowed to stand upon their own merits, and
not what report says, and that they be permit-
ted to speak in their own defense. Hope says:

"The flying rumors gathered as they roll'd;
Scarce anything was sooner heard than told,
And all who told it added something new,
And all who heard it made enlargement too;
In every ear it spread, on every tongue it grew."

	We are informed, through newspapers and
other sources, there a great many women, in
the East who are slaves to the lusts of men;
who are seduced and abandoned, who,
driven frantic, destroy their offspring with im-
punity. Would it not be well for Christian
ministers to use their efforts and their elo-
quence in pulpit, and through the press, to
suppress these evils, to bring these wicked men
to judgment who "lead captive these silly wo-

[Column 3]
men." O how easy to see the mote in anoth-
er's eye, but neglect the beam in their own!
If these poor and unfortunate young women
who are the prey of wicked and designing
men had been taught to be self-sustaining, and
to protect themselves, and had the privilege of
the ballot, such men would be exposed and
punished, sometimes at least. Only to-day
we read in the "Woman's Journal," published
in Boston, of a man who, for beating his wife
repeatedly (who had supported him and the
children for six years) was sent up for one
month. There will be a different course pur-
sued in Massachusetts when women have the
ballot in their hands; and please excuse us, but
they are going to have it—then many of the
evils that exist there, and in other large cities
now, will be somewhat remedied.
	When we were in Washington last winter
we heard enough of the evils that exist there
in the Capital of the nation, from ladies who
reside in that city, to convince us that wicked-
ness flourishes there. Yet with these things
under their very eyes, they condemn the Mor-
mons for making women honorable wives and
mothers. O Consistency, thou art indeed a
rare jewel!
	The last clause of one of the articles on Mor-
monism is, "If the administration shall com-
bine with its efforts to shut out foreign Mor-
mons, a vigorous enforcement of the laws
against polygamy will cripple, though it will
not destroy, the power of a people from whom
we have yet, if we do not mistake, much to
dread."
	What is it the writer dreads? There must be
some power in Mormonism, when a mere
handful of "ignorant" people are a dread and a
terror to the United States. To us it is terri-
ble to hear them talk of taking measures to
wipe out the twin-relic, * . We have seen
the efforts made to destroy the Mormons in
Nauvoo; we know the suffering, the hardship,
the struggles with adversity, the cold, the
hunger, the want. We have seen our own
loved ones die by the way, under the banner of
American freedom, and it makes our New
England blood boil when such things are al-
luded to, but withal, we know God rules and
they can go so far and no farther.
				[handwritten] E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	SISTERS M. P. HORNE, Elizabeth Howard
and E. S. Taylor, of this city, attended the
Quarterly Conference of Relief Societies, Y.
L. M. I. and Primary Associations of Tooele
Stake, held on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 13
and 14, in Tooele City, Mrs. M. A. Hunter pre-
siding. Further notice of the meetings will
appear in our next issue.

	THE QUARTERLY Conference of the Relief
Societies of Salt Lake Stake will be held in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms Friday and Sat-
urday, the 26th and 27th of the present month.
The Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. will also hold
their Conference at the same place on the sec-
ond day. Secretaries should prepare and for-
ward their reports in good time. All interested
in the labors of the sisters through these or-
ganizations are cordially invited to attend.

	SOME OF the Latter-day Saints have recently
been cruelly beaten and mal-treated in North
Carolina. In this free Republic, where reli-
gious liberty is the boast of the nation. The
Omaha "Bee" says, "If such outrages can be
perpetrated with impunity, because Mormon-
ism is odious in the eyes of the people who be-
lieve its founders to be impostors, how long
will it be before the same spirit of intolerance
and brutal hate will manifest itself against


[Column 1]
other creeds and those who subscribe to no
creed." It is high time that attention should 
be given to this subject, for although some peo-
ple may think Mormons are not made of the 
same material other people are, because they
have suffered and been silent, they may allow
persecution to spread in the land until they
fall under the curse of the Almighty, who has
promised to avenge the wrongs of the innocent
and oppressed:

	THE TERRITORIAL FAIR—On the first day of 
October next the Fair will open at the City
Market Corner, occupying the same grounds
that were used last year. A plowing match
will take place Sept. 30, commencing at 9
o'clock a. m. and 1 o'clock p. m, Considerable
has been said to the ladies of Utah through
the daily publications and the columns of our
woman's paper, to stimulate and encourage
them to make an exertion to furnish such
specimens of work, or curiosities, as will make
the Ladies' Department a credit to the indus-
try, taste and elegance of the women of this
Territory. Such premiums have been offered
as suit the occasion admirably, and we hope
and trust that all will feel public-spirited
enough to manifest their interest in a practical
manner, by lending their material aid and
personal influence to make the Fair a repre-
sentative one indeed in the matter of ladies'
work.

	"SONGS OF THE HEART," a book of poems
by Mrs. Hannah Tapfield King, is before us.
It is a neat little volume of original poetry,
pretty enough to lie on the table in any lady's
parlor, and would certainly be a pleasant com-
panion in a lonely hour, for it contains poems
upon the subjects which lie near to all hearts,
suitable for old or young; many of them are
full of pathos and melody, and others are sug-
gestive and true to life. The book in itself is
deserving of patronage, and we trust it will
find ready sale. Our yonng people should cul-
tivate a taste for poetry, it always has a gentle
and refining influence. Mrs. King is a pleasing
writer, and this little book is not wanting in
all those womanly sentiments that will make
it peculiarly attractive to the sisters. It also
reveals something of the author's life-history,
speaking as it does from the inner fountains of
her woman's heart. The book is for sale at
this office, and at Mrs. King's residence in the
17th Ward, Salt Lake City. Price, 5[-] cts.

	KNOWING AND realizing deeply the great
benefit the WOMAN'S EXPONENT has been to 
the women of this Church, we would suggest
to its patrons, and the sisters everywhere, that
they use their influence to have it better sus-
tained. Like all true and tried friends who
wear a homely garb, it often gets neglected,
but we trust not quite forgotten. Certainly it 
does not receive the attention it deserves from
those who should be zealous in every good
word and work. Sisters, remember this little 
paper represents your interests and sentiments
abroad. The Elders find it very beneficial to
them in their missionary work, for one of the 
first questions that come up is the woman
question; indeed, it is a very popular one now
throughout the world. It would be impossible
to carry on the home work in Societies that is
now executed without the EPPONENT as a 
medium of communication. It has also been
an educator on many subjects, and the sisters
everywhere are invited and entreated to write
and contribute to its columns, and in this way
develop whatever literary talent they may
possess. We now urge our agents and the la-
dies throughout the Territory, especially Presi-
dents and officers of Relief Societies and Young

[Column 2]
Ladies' Associations to aid us by procuring sub-
scribers, or getting up clubs, and help to make
this old friend as popular and entertaining
as any new one that may be brought forward.
If there are sisters not able to take the paper
alone, by two or more paying a small sum
they can take it together. President Young's
suggestion to us was, "Tell the sisters to take
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, preserve the num-
bers and have them bound, they will combine
a portion of Church History." They certainly
will of the work of women. Women complain,
in many instances, that they have labored
diligently in this kingdom, and yet it is scarcely
known; well, through the EXPONENT their la-
bors may be recorded and their names handed
down with honor to future generations. Will
those whose subscriptions are due please settle
as soon as they can make it convenient.
	We think it is extensively known that paper
rags are as good as cash in payment for the 
EXPONENT.

	RECENTLY THREE has been considerable
home-missionary work done by the sisters who
have traveled in different parts of the Territo-
ry, and some in adjacent settlements in other
Territories. Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne,
S. M. Kimball and S. M. Heywood left Salt
Lake City July 1, and traveled North, visiting
Smithfield and Hyde Park in Cache Co., then
on through the [-]ettlements of Bear Lake
Stake, meeting with the Societies in all the 
places where there are women's organizations,
and organizing the children in Primary Asso-
ciations, where it had not previously been ef-
fected. They were in Paris and attended the
Relief Society Conference of that Stake, also
that of the Young Ladies' and Primary Asso-
ciations, which were held conjointly. They
found everything pertaining to woman's work
there in excellent order, which speaks well for
the people in that vicinity. The sisters visited
Soda Springs and rested there a short time, re-
freshing themselves with the local beverage,
soda water, exploring and making a few collec-
tions of the natural curiosities. Returning
home the sisters took another route, visiting
and holding meetings with the sisters at other
places, making in all forty-one meetings.
	Sister E. R. Snow stopped at Brigham City
on her return and spent a week, holding ten
more meetings with the sisters' and children's
organizations.
	On Sunday, Aug. 31, we accompanied Sis-
ter E. R Snow to Kaysville, to attend the
Quarterly Conference of the Young People's
Associations of Davis Co. It was a very inter-
esting meeting, presided over by Elder Roberts,
Pres. of Y. M. M. I. A., and Mrs. Nancy A.
Clark, Pres. of Y. L. M. I. A, of Davis Stake.
Elder Junius F. Wells, who has charge of the
entire Associations for young men, was present
and made a very able and eloquent speech.
Elder Roberts, Elder Hyde and others of the
young men acquitted themselves admirably.
Mrs. Clark selected two Counselors, who were
unanimously elected—Misses Sarah Louise
Roberts, of Centreville, and Helen E. Hyde
of Kaysville—and Mrs. Phebe Peart was elected
Treasurer for the Young Ladies' Stake Organ-
ization.
	On Tuesday morning, Sept. 2, we left the
city, accompanying S[-]ster E. R. Snow on a
tour through Wasatch Co.  We arrived at Bro.
G. W. Brown's in Charleston the same evening,
and the next morning met with the Relief So-
ciety in Cha[-]les[-]on. After meeting we rode
over to Heber Ci[-]y with the sisters, Miss Min-
nie Hatch drove a span of spirited hors[-]s for
us as easily and as gracefully as any young
man. There was a m[-]eting at two o'c[-]ock,
very numerously attended, many of the breth-

[Column 3]
ren and sisters from other settlements being
present. The next morning we were unable to
attend meeting, but "Sister Eliza" assisted
Pres. Hatch in effecting an organization of the
Relief Society Stake, with Mrs. Emma Brown,
of Charleston, President, Mrs. Sarah Alexan-
der, of Heber City, and Mrs. Mary Daybell,
Counselors, Mrs. Mary Bronson, of Midway,
Secretary. "Sister Eliza" also assisted the
Bishops in organizing a Relief Society in each
Ward of Heber City, which has been some-
what recently divided in two districts. Mrs.
Margaret Muir, the former President, presides
over one ward, and Mrs. Catherine Foreman is
President of the other.  A Primary Associa-
tion was also effected in each of the wards.
	The following day Sister E. R. Snow visited
Centre Creek and assisted Bishop Cluff to or-
ganize a Relief Society, with Mrs. Cluff as
President. "Sister Eliza" also organized a
Primary Association there. The same evening
she went to Midway, where she held two meet-
ings the next day, and organized a Primary
Association. On Saturday morning we were
just able to get into the carriage and ride over
to Midway to see the place and look upon the 
faces of the sisters.  During our brief illness
we were most kindly cared for by Sister Hatch
and the young ladies, which we shall ever re-
member with feelings of sincere gratitude.
The ladies were each and all of them most as_
siduous in their attentions, and to their kind
and skillful nursing, under the blessing of God,
we owe our speedy restoration from a severe
illness.
	On Sunday morning Mrs. Hatch took us over
to Big Hollow, a part of Charleston where
there are quite a number of children, and a 
Primary Association was organized.  In the
afternoon we met with the brethren and sisters
in Charleston Meeting-house, and after the 
Sacrament was administered, Bishop Murdock
desired the sisters to occupy the time.  The
President of Charleston Relief Society having 
been chosen to preside over the Stake, it neces-
s tated a new organization of R. S., which was
effected, and Mrs. Melissa Murdock was elected
President.  At four o'clock a meeting was
held to organize the children.  Monday morn-
ing two carriage loads of us went over to 
Wallsburg, met with the Relief So[-]iety in the 
forenoon and organized the children in the af-
ternoon.  This finish[-]d the labor in that vi-
cinity for the present  having held fourteen
meetings and effected twelve organizations,
including seven Primary Associations.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Manti City, Aug. 8, 1879, Anna Ma-
ria Sorenson Peterson.  Deceased was born
June 22, 1822, in Westburg, Scandinavia; bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints September 12, 1835, emigrated
in 1857.  She was a faithful teacher in the Re-
lief Society of Manti.  She has left her family
and nume[-]ous friends to mourn her loss, but
we feel assured that our los[-] is her gain, and
that she has gone to the home of the just, and
will come forth in the morn of the first resur-
rection, clothed with immortality and eternal
life.  Peace to her ashes.
REBECCA WAREHAM.


Chicken Salad—Stew chickens tender and cut
the meat in small pieces; to every pint of meat
add same quantity of celery, cut fine; to every
quart of these, when mixed, add four hard-boiled
eggs chopped fine, one small potatoe mashed smooth,
a piece of butter, a teaspoonful each of ground
mustard, pepper and salt, and one-half cup of
vinegar.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.
SAN FRANCISCO, CAL, July 8, 1879
CONCLUDED
	This time we take street car on Mission
St. opposite the far-famed  "Woodward's
Gardens," thence making our way by trans-
fer to "Lone Mountain;" at this point leav-
ing car we step into an omnibus for a ride
over the sand-hills to this daily and favor-
ite resort of visitors from far and near.  On
our way out and at the landing (for let me
remind you this is the first trip) every
pulsation of body and being seemed con-
centrating their forces to run riot with
nerve, heart and brain.  Thought went
back with the rapidity of lightning into
the far-off days of school life, when we
pondered and scanned our lessons o'er,
seated upon hard benches in out New Eng-
land village school room. Geography, be
it remembered, was a favorite study, and
gave but very meagre account of countries
since opened up and developed, but what
they lacked in information was partly made
up in dreamy speculation, and of this part
of the world we learned about as much as
of the interior of Africa.  Yet we had our 
dreams and desires to travel, and they were
oft expressed too, of one day seeing lands
and waters that in those days appeared
about as improbable or impossible as a trip
to the moon.  Yet all the years of child
and girlhood, before the iron horse was
conceived, or the crude ore taken from the
bowels of mother earth to form the course
laid through and over this mighty conti-
nent, along which he now runs his tireless
race,snuffing the waters of two great oceans,
we set our heart upon one day seeing this
far off land and floating upon the bosom of
the great Western sea.  No wonder, then,
we recalled our youthful ardor when gazing
afar over its waters through the "Golden
Gate," and with fervent gratitude thanked
our Heavenly Father for guiding our foot-
steps safely hither, although life's sun had
past its meridian.  Yet, nevertheless,
blessed be His name! it was in His own
way and time.  We roamed along the beach
gathering shells, waiting until the tidal
waves came in, dashing over our feet and 
garments, baptizing us with their white,
billowy spray, telling strange stories of dis-
tant lands, or the wonders of the deep, of
the precious burdens they have borne, and
of shipwreck and disaster--while we sent
back our voice in snatches of old songs,
clapped our hands; cheered, applauded
these monster waves and sea lions, big and
little, as they gamboled in their native ele-
ment, or scrambled out of it to stretch
themselves high above the waters upon
their island-rock castles, monarchs of all
they survey.  Yea, we left our years and
cares behind (our party at the Cliff also),
and like a very child wandered over the
steep, rugged cliffs out of sight of the sea-
beach road, gathering wild flowers unmolest-
ed, until we had more than we could well car-
ry, and thought of retracing our way back,
when lo!  there appeared just below us, on
the side of this sterile cliff, one of the love-
liest, most magnificent villas imaginable.
We scarcely dared breathe, lest the vision
might suddenly disappear--such beauty in 
such a place could only be an illusion, it
seemed.  On the border and surrounding
this gem cut in the sterile cliff were trees
from twenty to forty feet in height, wide
avenues bordered with lovely flowers, and
plots of ground with true ivy so delicate,
so artistically arranged, rustic seats and
marble nymphs, statuary, vases, baskets,
everything to beautify and adorn that art
or nature could do.  Strolling around this
marvelous place, through a small gate not
much used we judged, we entered a small
garden of flowers; through this we had a
view of a conservatory of choice tropical
plants; going down sleep steps into another
and then another, where there were tall
fuchias and trellises covered with blossoms
of the heliotrope and roses; birds were
chirping and hopping about, but not a sign
of human being, although there were many
handsome habitations surrounding the cen-
tre one, which appeared almost embowered
with magnificent trees and vines.  We be-
gan to suspect this was the home of the 
Sleeping Giant, and determined to arouse
him or some of his minions, as we saw no
possible way of effecting an entrance into
the main grounds excepting by a wide gate
a little ajar, we made the attempt to pass,
when an ugly dog (like Erebus guarding 
the entrance) rushed toward us opening his
cavernous throat yelling with the force of 
all the furies of Hades.  His unearthly yells
brought no one to our aid; in vain we called
for help.  There was nothing to be done
but beat a retreat, and this we did, shifting
under a little alcove on the stone steps
watching our enemy, until he gave up the 
battle and went to his tent (or kennel).  We
noticed the length of his chain in his fran-
tic attempts to reach us, and thought we
could slip by while he was off guard.  We
crept close to the opposite side of the gates
and glided through, with Erebus at our 
heels; fortunately he did not reach them,
else my adventure would have had a tragi-
cal termination.  Once out of the way of
this monster, we walked boldly to the man-
sion and rung the bell; this had no effect.
Then we went through a trellised portico,
and knocked, opening the door at the same
time upon a stupid young Englishman and
French servant girl, who stared at us as if
they thought a messenger had appeared
from the world of spirits.  Something was
wrong in that camp evidently, but we took
in the situation, and partly made the Eng-
lishman to understand we only wished to
see the grounds and gain all the informa-
tion possible concerning this strange place
in the desert.  We soon learned that he
was not going to enlighten us even if he
could, and this last we very much doubt.
We asked if the proprietor could be seen,
but did not receive and reply. 
	We saw the arrangement for throwing
water over the trees--not a hose, but a sort
of Persian wheel, such as the King of Baby-
lon had to throw water upon and nourish the 
trees and plants of his hanging gardens, and
to all our inquiries the servant was as utterly
incapable of giving an intelligent answer as
a Chinaman just imported.  Had the pro-
prietor been at home, we might have heard
something more tangible, and been com-
pensated for forcing our way through dan-
ger of extermination.  As it was, we ram-
bled through the grounds,  until time
warned us that we must not linger, but
make our way out of this strange place and
back to the Cliff House, which we did by
the carriage road, the main avenue up the
steep graded mountain.  This was the best
part of it, for the gardener made as much
parade opening the great gates and direct-
ing us as ceremoniously out of the grounds
as they had unceremoniously been entered
into.  However, we returned without harm,
loaded with the sweetest, brightest, loveli-
est wild and cultivated blossoms that na-
ture ever produced; and when; with our
arms full, we came in sight of our party,
they exclaimed with wonder, "Where have
you been, and where did you get all those
beautiful flowers!"  "Oh, but you have lost
such a grand sight," said one lady; "one of
the most terrible fights, or battles, between
two monster sea-lions.  Oh, it was the
grandest sight I ever saw!"  Never mind,
one cannot see everything; the sea lions
had their fight and we had ours!
	If there was time you should have the
story of the sea lions' fight, as it was told
to me; as it is, we will pass them over, and
some day you may witness a similar one
for yourself.  But with the experience
given of the other encounter, you will do
better, should you desire to explore this
mountain villa, to go by the way of the
main entrance and when the master of the
premises is upon them.  The sequel, or a
part of it is--a rich man, after his wife had
been taken from him by death, wandered
around one day through this wild region to
forget his grief, or nurse it, nobody knows
which, conceived the plan of building a
retreat of beauty and luxury, and having it
all to himself and servants; and thus his
wealth has brought out of deep ravines,
abrupt acclivities, precipitous hills and long
stretches of rough, stony, flinty slides, a
marvel of wonder to all who have seen it.
The great trouble is lack of water to supply
the demand of all these trees and plants
and sustain such an immense establishment
of vegetable and animal life in the heart
of a high rock, for such in reality is the 
case.  Already he is becoming weary of it,
and it may yet to be left to the peaceful en-
joyment of some stupid servant, or distant
relative--but it does not matter to either
you or me, dear reader, who has the beau-
tiful "nest in the crags;" we do not envy
the proprietor,"nor his sisters, nor his cous-
ins, nor his aunts;" we have seen, and if
we did not conquer, eluded the ugly guard.
 Now, we fully intended to have taken
you with us upon Telegraph Hill--"Moun-
tain of Temptation" we call it, for it com-
mands a view of most of the city of the
bay, Golden Gate, many towns and places
surrounding it, as well as mountain and
villages beyond.  Here you may take in
"Goat Island," a military reservation, Al-
catray, another strongly fortified naval
station at the entrance of the bay; Angel
Island, north of Alcatray, is another mili-
tary reservation; beyond this towers up the
peak of Mount Talmapais, the highest near
the city; from the north San Pablo Bay,
Berkley, where the State University is
established, Oakland, Alemeda, The Coast-
hills, far over the bay San Jose, and every-
where enough to satisfy and gratify the
largest desire for sight-seeing, providing
the fogs do not obstruct your range of vision.
Then there is North Beach, Ringon Hill,
Mission Hills, and many more with human
habitations, impraaticable for wheeled ve-
hicles, but very nice to be carried up their
steep sides (as in many instances) in cars
drawn by an endless rope running just be-
low the surface.  Going down these slopes
reminds me of the splendid long sled-rides
on the smooth, hard snow-crust on the steep
hillside in the Eastern part of our dear old
grandfather's farm.  Funny, is it not?  But
every time we go down one of these steep
hillsides in this way my mind reverts to
those healthful, exciting sports of long,
long ago.  The long stretch up hill was not
in the least thought of; the toil was more
than compensated for by the jolly rided own.
And so, dear reader, as long as the faculty
of recollection is left us, there is still (Jean
Paul says) an Eden for mankind, out of
which nothing can drive them.  Thus
memory sometimes comes when our hearts
are sad, with flashes of light to cheer and 
gladden.


With the sincere hope that we have not
wearied you, and also that among your re-
ollections of the past there may be many
to gladden, comfort and cheer, we bid you
a loving adieu!
					L. M. HEWLINGS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		63


[Column 1]
EDITOR EXPONENT:

		SAN FRANCISCO, August 10th, 1879,

	The last number of the EXPONENT is be-
fore me and allow me to say I think it
grows more entertaining. I take great in-
terest in every thing which tends to elevate
women, and certainly your paper does, for
it offers an opportunity to all to contribute
their mite and in so doing, they unfold
their minds and lo! in some are gems of
thought and but for this avenue these
bright thoughts would never have been
developed.
	I think there never was a time just like
the present one; both politically and finan-
cially, we are on the eve of another elec-
tion and business is at a complete standstill,
waiting until the terrible ordeal is passed.
	Kearney, the wild communist is doing
his best to create dismay, some think he
has lost his power but we can safely say he
has held great sway with the working
classes.
	The Fair has opened, but is not attended
quite as numerously as hertofore. If you
visit one you have seen them for years,
they vary very little; why it is called a
Fair is a query with me, for it seems to be
all advertising. The building is of redwood
and is very large, it is entirely devoid of
architectural ornament and has neve rseen
paint; it is decidedly rustic in the interior;
the decorations are mostly flags and the
spaces alloted to the different exhibitors
are completely filled. There is very little
fancy work displayed, mostly machinery.
There are three fine fountains and they al-
ternate the music to help wile away the
time. It is the fashion to go to the Fair
dressed in your best and see and be seen,
and the flirting is terrible; items on this
subject are given to the public through the
Fair Press, a paper published in the build-
ing.
	All San Fransiscans that can are visiting at
some of the many pleasant summer resorts
and really the city has quite a gloomy as-
pect. The trade winds are doing much
good if they are disagreeable, for the city
was never healthier; it is not owing to the
board of health though for the sewers are
in a terrible condition aud the Chinese
quarters cannot be described, but they are
horrible, and right in the heart of the city;
but we have been blessed. with this cool sea
breeze and we have so far escaped from
disease, although we have a ship lying in
quarantine with yellow fever. Physicians
say that it cannot incubate here owing to
the cool air, but in the interior it would find
ample field, for there it is very hot and the
ground is very marshy. This ship has had
a terrible time and has been one year reach-
ing this port; she left New York and lost
one crew and part of another. The Captain
his wife and daughter were all prostrated
with this dreadful disease, the wife died
and the Captian became helpless, the
daughter, convalesced and took charge of
the vessel; she took soundings and guided
the ship safe into this port. She is but 21
years old and is one of the greatest heroines
of the present age, as the ship must have
been lost but for her.
	I see by the papers you are having more
trouble in Salt Lake. What effect do you
think the letters sent to foreign nations re-

[Column 2]
garding Mormon emigration can have? It
was quite a surprise to me, but what is to be,
will be, fate will have it so.
		Yours respectfully,
							NELLIE.


[Column 1]
			[For the EXPONENT.
PROVO CANON.

	Entering the canon named above, which
is one of the grandest in Utah, you pass
around a sort of serpentine road following
the Provo river, just where it has been
possible to cut a highway, through rock
and on the steep sides of mountains, the
road just barely wide enough to allow a
carriage or wagon to travel, but in many
places impossible for teams to pass each
other, so that when you turn one of the
angles, or bends in the road you are in fear
lest there will be a team coming from the
other direction. The Utah Lake stretches
away towards the horizon in the Southwest,
before you are fairly in the canon, and on
the other side are the towering heights of
the Wasatch mountains.
	As one travels through this wonderful
mountain pass, the picture is grand in its
effect upon an imaginative nature; the
lofty mountains, many of them of almost
solid rock, look like great battlements,
rough and of all forms; and one could imag-
ine them castles, towers, turrets, and struc-
tures of immense size in rough architec-
ture; or, perchance, the ruins of ancient
buildings, once the homes of a great and
powerful people, now but petrified. Out of
these barren, rugged mountain sides, in
clefts and crevices wherever there is a par-
ticle of soil, grow shrubs and trees, in many
instances tall pines and cedars. Some of
the mountains, less rocky and more abun-
dant in dry loamy soil, are covered with
shrubs and plants and short, dry grass.
	Occasionally in traveling along I saw
rabbits, and they would stop sometimes,
and pricking up their long ears look at us
with their beautiful sharp eyes, as much as
to say, What right have you to disturb us?
Squirrels hopped about gaily, and now and
then some wild bird flew past, as if in ter-
ror.
	In some parts of the canon the rocks rise
perpendicular to a very great height, and 
present a lofty and imposing appearance,
which inspires one with awe and thoughts
of even a weird nature would seem appro-
priate to the place and its surroundings. It
is really one of the wildest and most ro-
mantic places I ever have seen.
	Provo river is always in sight, its banks
usually fringed with willows, which bend
gracefully over the water, although scat-
tered along are choke-cherry, elder-berry
and hawthorn trees. There was a fire burn-
ing in the canon as we passed through, and
although a canon fire looks grand, yet there
is something fearful in it which detracts
from the enjoyment of its splendor.
	Arriving at about the centre of the canon
you reach the bridge which crosses the
river, and here, indeed, is the acme of beauty
and grandeur, the celebrated cascade, or
waterfall, called "The Bridal Veil." The
water falls from a high mountain of solid
rock perpendicular several hundred feet,
and foaming and dashing down the moun-
tain side, the white spray is blown out by
the wind until it is as thin and filmy as
gauze, and in length and fineness of tex-
ture really resembles the article whose
name it bears. The water flows through
apertures in the rocky mountain side from
a lake on the very summit of this high
mountain. The waters form in a sort of

[Column 2]
basin that can be seen from the ground, and
then flow over and down, forming this
beautiful picture in the midst of the most
rugged mountain pass. After crossing the
bridge the scenery is very similar, the
river lying on the other side of the road.
A few miles on you come to Deer Creek,
which flows down the mountains and emp-
ties into the river. Formerly great quanti-
ties of beautiful deer inhabited this region
of country, but have been killed off and
driven away by the settlers.
	Already autumn has tinged the leaves of
shrubs and trees in these mountain locali-
ties, adding beauty and rich coloring to the
scenery; the maples blaze in crimson, and
the oaks in their poor imitation give a
brightness and charm to the picture.

THE MOUNDS, OR POTS.

	In Midway, one of the towns lying a few
miles on from Provo Canon, there are some
wonderful natural curiosities; they are
designated by the people in that vicinity as
pots. They are nearly round in form and
some of then contain water, others are dry.
They rise in the shape of a hill, or mound
of earth, and have a rim of solid rock.
Looking down perhaps twenty or thirty
feet into these dry ones, I found there was
shrubbery growing among the sharp rocks
at the bottom. There are several of those
almost alike a little distance from each
other. There are others, that contain warm
water, some forty feet in depth. It has no
smell of sulphur, but is simply soft water,
agreeable for bathing purposes. There is
one spring about four feet in depth, where
it is quite customary to bathe, which looks
like a rock basin; this is in the side of a
hill.
	One of these mounds is very large in-
deed and quite wonderful in its appearance.
It is said the land covers a crust, or layer of
rock, and there are parts of the town where
a wagon passing over makes a noise similar
to crossing a bridge. There is no doubt
but these pots are volcanic formations, and
that ages ago, perhaps, there were in that
vicinity great convulsions of nature, which
caused these curious phenomena.
							AUNT EM.


THE ORIGIN OF THE POSTAGE.
STAMP.

	The postage-stamp was born in London,
on the 10th of January, 1840; and England
employed it alone for ten years. France
adopted it on the 1st of January, 1849; and
G[-]rmany, in 1850. According to M. Al
phonse Esquiros, it was a curious incident
that gave rise to the idea of postage-stamps.
A traveler was crossing, about forty years
ago, a district in the north of England. He
arrived at the door of an inn, where a
postman had stopped to deliver a letter. A
young girl came out to receive it. She
turned it over and over in her hand, and
asked the price of the postage. This was
a large sum, and evidently the young girl
was poor; for the postman demanded a
shilling. She sighed sadly, and said that
the letter was from her brother, and that
she had no money; and so she returned it
to the postman. The traveler was a man
who rambled about the earth for instruc-
tion and observation. Having a good heart,
he offered to pay the postage of the letter;
and, in spite of the resistance of the young
girl, he paid the shilling. This resistance
made him reflect. Scarcely had the post-
man turned his back than the young inn-
keeper's daughter confessed that it was a
trick between her and her brother.


Some signs marked upon the envelope
had told her all she wanted to know; but
the letter itself contained no writing.
	"We are both so poor!" she added, "and
so we invented this mode of corresponding,
and prepaying our letters."  The traveler
continuing  his  road, asked himself if a
system giving place to such frauds was not
a vicious one.  The sun had not set before
Mr. Rowland Hill (that was the name of
the traveler) had planned to organize the
postal service upon a new basis.  He said,
that  in  England, where  family  ties  are
strong, and where the members often live
far apart, where, too, the spirit of commerce
knows no limits, the correspondence was
only limited by the cost of the post; and
that, by lowering this barrier, a great ser-
vice would be rendered to society, without
hurting the  resources  of  the  treasury.
These views were agreed to by the English
Government, and on the 10th of January,
1840, not more than a penny was paid for
letters which circulated over the whole ex-
tent of the British Isles.  This bold scheme
soon surpassed the hopes of the legislators.
	Ten years later, in 1850, the number of
letters increased from 1,500,000 to 7,239,-
962.  Mr. Rowland Hill occupied, in Eng-
land, the post of secretary to the postmas-
ter-general. - From the French.


64		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Green Tomatoe Sauce.—Slice two gallons of
green tomatoes and twelve or fourteen good-sized
onions, two quarts of vinegar, one pound of sugar,
two tablespoonfuls of salt, two of ground mustard,
two of black pepper, one tablespoon of allspice
and one of cloves. Mix all and stew until tender,
stirring often lest they should scorch. Put up in
small glass jars. This is very nice for almost
every kind of meat or fish.

	Spiced Tomatoes.—Two pounds of nice ripe
tomatoes, one pound of brown sugar, one-half
pint of good cider vinegar, one dozen cloves and
two dozen grains of allspice. Put these ingredi-
ents into a preserving kettle and stew them over
a slow fire. When they have been sufficinetly
long to cook the tomatoes tolerably well take
them up and place them on a dish to cool, but con-
tinue boiling the syrup slowly. When the toma-
toes become cool put them back into the syrup
and boil them until they are of a dark red color,
then take them out again, put them on a dish to
cool and continue boiling until it is as thick as
molasses. When the tomatoes and syrup are
both cool put them in jars and tightly seal.

	New Mode of Preparing Beefsteak.—Procure a
nice round steak: spread over it a dressing made
of one quart of bread crumbs soaked in boiling
water, and seasoned with butter, salt, pepper and
sage to taste. Then make the steak, spread with
this dressing, into a roll, after the manner of roll
jelly-cake. Tie it round and round with cord to
keep it together. Place it in a dripping pan with
a little water, and bake in a moderate oven. Dip
the water over the steak with a large spoon sever-
al times during the process of baking. After
taking from the oven, remove the cord and slice
the roll for the table. It is very nice, either
warm or cold.


WISDOM is better than riches.  Wisdom
guards  thee, but thou  must  guard  thy
riches.  Riches diminish in the using, but
wisdom increases in the use of it. - Arabic
Proverb.

	BE not diverted from  your  duty by any
idle reflections the silly  world  may  make
upon you for their censures are not in your
power, and consequently should not be any
part of your concern. - Epictetus.


MRS. THANKFUL Taylor, of Washing-
ton, now seventy years old, has proven what
energy and perseverance may accomplish
under difficult circumstances.  When young
she had a great yearning for knowledge, and
as she was poor and could not easily obtain
the advantages of a liberal education; she
worked and bought her own books, and
pursued her studies as she stood at the spin-
ning wheel.  In  this  way  she  became  a
thorough Greek, Latin and English scholar,
and also learned ecclesiastical and profane
history, medicine, science and general lit-
erature.


THE French savant Dr. Bertillon has
given the result of his study of the mortali-
ty statistics of every country of Europe.
He comes to the conclusion that marriage
is conducive to health, long life, and moral-
ity, that it is, so to speak, a limited insur-
ance against disease, crime, and suicide.
He says that a bachelor of twenty-five has
not a better prospect of life than a married
man of forty-five; that among widowers of
from twenty-five to thirty the rate of moral-
ity is as great as among married men of
from fifty-five to sixty. Taking the French
bills of mortality, he shows that while the
annual death rate among married men be-
tween twenty and twenty-five years of
age is rather under 10 per 1,000, bachelors
of that age die at the rate of 16, and wid-
owers at the rate of 19, per 1,000. These
figures apply to the whole of France, while
taking Paris, it appears that the rate
for men of between twenty and twenty-five
years of age is 15.7 per 1,000 for married
men, 27 per 1,000 for bachelors, and 32 per
1,000 for widowers. With advanced life
the difference goes on increasing-


MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
		  	   PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,

	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women. 

				TO THE LADIES!
HEALTH Corsets, Shoulder Braces, Skirt Supporters,
Back Braces, and Abdominal Supporters, for sale or
made to order, by  P. E. HARPER, First South Street,
nearly opposite Theatre.
	Mrs. ZINA D. YOUNG, agent for this Territory.
	Physicians and Ladies, call and examine. 

		   HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
		   VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high.  Its self-
setting and self-threading shuttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable.  Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
		    O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.

			 F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
	   55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.

				DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
		Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
				AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	      Pumps Repaired on short notice.
 Orders from the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		SOMETHING NEW -- HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
						3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap, 	-	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc) -	-	-	35 Cents each
Brooms, -	-	-	-	-	35 Cents each

             A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
				ALSO
          Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
			    TRUNKS. Etc.
			JOHN C. CUTLER,
	     Agent, Old Constitution Building.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

			   MRS. C. E. DYE

	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes.  Country dealers,
please call.  Ladies' Hair work in all its branches.  Good
work guaranteed.

		     Z. C. M. I.
    Wholesale and Retail Dealing
		in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
   HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
       GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
 AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

			 AT TEASDEL'S
			SALT LAKE CITY
  Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
     Dry Goods,  Shawls and Domestics,
	 Groceries, Hardware  and Stoves.

	DRIED FRUIT of all CLASES WANTED. 
			   S. P. TEASDEL.

			    FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to  call and examine  the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style.  Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
							JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.						97 Kimball Block. 

				ROMANIA B. PRATT,
		          PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE - Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
			DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR. 

		      H. DINWOODEY
     WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
			  FURNITURE
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
		   Feathers Wall Paper
				AND
		  BABY CARRIAGES.
    75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates.—Proverbs, Chapter xxxi, Verse 31.

