Vol. 8.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRURY 15, 1880.	No. 18.


LINES.

ADDRESSED TO MRS. MARGARET T. SMOOT,
	ON HER PRESENTING ME WITH A VASE
	FILLED WITH ROSES, JUNE 18, 1866.

Dear lady! Sister, friend most kind,
your presentation suits my mind,
And fills my heart with grateful joy
And pleasure that has no alloy;
I clasp it with a fond caress,
And, childlike, to my bosom press
The flowers, that in their language tell,
In whisperings, all I love so well!
Ah! years have pass'd since these fond eyes
Beheld so dear, so sweet a prize!
It seems to weave such charm around me,
As though some sweetest spell had bound me!
The poetry of life's young dream
Returns in all its gushing stream,
And bears me on its luscious wave,
That heart and brain and spirit lave,
And Heaven itself feels beaming round me,
As though in floral chains it bound me!
My system's sun shines warm and bright,
And every pulse throbs with delight,
And gratitude, my friend, to thee,
For the sweet spell you've wov'n o'er me!
These roses shall an emblem be
Of all that I would crave for thee;
And may your future path of life
With rosy sweets be ever rife;
The thorns I would extract with care,
Believing you have had your share;
I'd form a coronal for thee
Of rosy gems, from thorns all free!
Their beauty, and their perfume, too
Alone! alone! should live for you!

The vase! Yes, yes, I do remember
The vase you did so sweetly tender—
I'll keep it as a sweet love-token,
That never shall be marr'd or broken.
And may our friendship grow with years,
And stand the test of smiles, or tears—
Firm as the everlasting hills,
And pure as our own mountain rills.
Such ever will true pleasure bring,
Such is the prayer of Hannah King.

	HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.


[Column 1]

NEVER GET ANGRY.

	Anger does no good. Some sins have a
seeming apology, a present gratification of
some sort, but anger has none; a person
who acquires a habit of giving way to pas-
sion, when in that state is without much
sensibility and often bereft of reason; he
speaketh like the piercing of a sword, and
his tougue is like an arrow shot out of the
bow. Heated passion kindles flames of dis-
cord on every hand; an angry person adds
nothing to the welfare of society. Life is
given to us to educate and disciplne our-
selves and not to gratify one's passion, and
when the storm has passed over it leaves
one to see he has been a fool, and has
made a fool of himself in the eyes of
others. A person who gives way to passion
is on the road to ruin, and when angry
will commit many wicked deeds. When
anger was in Cain's breath murder was not
far off; there have been many murders and
much property destroyed in the world by
giving way to heated passion. When we
have learned to govern self we have to a
degree gained power over the evil propen-
sities of our natures; there are besetments
on every hand to draw aside the unwary,
and tempt them from the paths of rectitude
and honor. Then let us cultivate principles
that ennoble our character. A cheerful dis-

[Column 2]

position is an invaluable trait of character
and should be cultivated. It is a far nobler
thing to conquer one's passion than to crush
a foe.The cultivation of the youth, should be
carefully studied and the foundation of good
laid in early life. It is in vain to look for a
real noble character without a cultivated
mind; establish your reputation in youth,
and it will always stand by. It is a happy
memory that remembers kindness and for-
gets offences; if an enemy hunger, feed him,
if he thirst, give him drink.
	"Save when young, to spend when old," is
a very true motto which should be observed
by all; cheerfulness soothes the passions and
keeps them calm. A smile costs the giver
nothing, yet it is beyond price to the erring.
It subdues temper, turns enmity to kindness,
and paves the darkest paths with sunshine.
The highest riches does not consist of
princely income. There is greater wealth
than this. It is the possesion of an honest
cheerful heart and a clear conscience; a
person is truly rich, who has a noble soul
and moral courage enough to withstand the
temptations, that occur in daily life. We
all desire to live long, then practise the
golden rule, "Do as we would be done un-
to." To the aged you are indebted for care 
and attention during infancy and childhood.
They have endured all the pettish humor
in their helpless days of childhood, and
you in return must endure with patience,
and alleviate, as much as in your power lies,
the infirmities of age. We are all frail
creatures and liable to go astray. We ask
God to forgive our weakness; should we not
forgive the short-comings of our compan-
ions? Be charitable one toward another and
when our brother or sister does or says what
is wrong do not tear their names to pieces
or disparage them,by unkind words, but en-
courage them to reform. Remember
the words of our Savior "Judge not lest ye
be judged."
		MARY JANE CROSBY.
	Bountiful Jan. 18, 1880.


INTEMPERANCE.

	Intemperance is the foe of sobriety, or-
der, peace, the welfare and the happiness
of the human family. How many have
fallen victims to the deadly enemy? Echo
answers, "How many!" Those alone know
who have battled with this fierce destroyer,
and whose hearts have been wrung with
anguish by the sad fates of their still dear
ones that have rapidly trod the downward
path to the yawning grave.
	Happily, my lot has been so cast that I 
have scarce come into contact with the ine-
briate, and know nothing of the fearful
temptation, the hilarity, and subsequent
suffering those undergo who are destroying
themselves by drink, except that which
imagination supplies.
	But I say to one and all, if you will you
can overcome. Your will-power must con-
quer, if you ask the help of the Lord. It
is by will-power that you can conquer any
evil habit, and when you rise up, in the
majesty and power of your will, saying, "I
will give this habit up, and it shall never
have power more on me," relying on the
help of the Lord, you can conquer, never


fear! And when once the resolution is
taken, when once a covenant has been
made between you and God, then never
taste again the forbidden article, for if you
do, goodby to good resolutions—they vanish
like the morning dew, and again the chains
are riveted upon you tighter than before.
Never say "I'll try," but "I will;" and with
that will, conquer!
	Do I lament the increase of intemper-
ance? I do; and gladly would I see our
young, our middle-aged, and our old, that
are wrecking their lives, stop in their ca-
reer, and turn ere it is too late.

	Mothers, how can we impress upon the
loved ones of our households the impor-
tance of temperance? By setting the ex-
ample and by ourselves never partaking of
anything that will intoxicate. The Lord
has told us what to do and how to use liqour
wisely, what it was designed for, and can
we not believe Him? Can we not abide by
His promise and have faith in what He
says?
	Then let us prove our faith by our works.
		EMILY B. SPENCER.


NOTES AND NEWS

	THE King of the Belgians has conferred
the Leopold Cross on Rosa Bonheur, artist.
She is the first lady receiving the distinc-
tion. The King of Spain has also conferred
on the distinguished painter an equally
high order, never before granted to a lady.
	THE library at Berlin has recently be-
come the possessor of some MSS., in parch-
ment, parts of the Iliad, Euripides and
Sappho, and some Greek papyri, with frag-
ments of Aratus obtained in Egypt. 
	THE National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion held its winter session in Lincoln Hall,
Washington, D. C., Jan 21 and 22, of which
we have full particulars. Miss Susan B.
Anthony presided. There were reports
from delegates and speeches from the la-
dies full of pith and abounding in wit and
argument. One of the mottoes hung upon
the walls was, "When a woman Will she
Will, and you may depend on it she Will
vote." Mrs. Mary A Pell, of South Caro-
lina said she wanted a lady President of
the United States, and saw no good reason
why we cannot have a lady President as
well as to have female sovereigns in foreign
countries. She denounced the present sys-
tem of churches paying large salaries to
their preachers.
	Mary A. Stuart, of Delaware, said from
Adam down the men had always said, "The
woman she made me do it." Now they
were going to make men give them the
ballot. The Resolutions were submitted by
Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer. One clause
reads: "We further pledge ourselves to con-
sign to oblivion any presidential candidate
who cannot see ten millions of women citi-
zens." "That we, the N. W. S. A., will
send a delegate and an alternate to each
presidential nominating convention, to rep-
resent and demand the rights of women
citizens, and to submit to each party a wo-
man suffrage plank for the presidential
platform."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OUR OPINION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I am rejoiced that the subject of the
equality before the law of women with
men has reached the stage of "respectful
consideration" (I mean no sarcasm) in our
Territorial Legislature; and since nobody
has visited me to ask my signature to the
petition, I hereby authorize and request
you to put my name to it, for although I
neither expect nor wish to hold any office
whatever, I don't relish being forbidden;
and I know some offices which I should like
to see filled by ladies.
	The thanks of the ladies are due to Hon.
C. W. Penrose for his faithful presentation
of our case; and Hon. F. M. Lyman's point
is well taken when he says no man is
obliged to vote for any individual woman
because he helps to amend the statutes so
that a woman would be at liberty to serve,
if others voted her into some office.
	It is admitted on all hands that "self-
preservation is the first law of nature," and
that every man has a natural human right
to use every honorable means of self-pro-
tection, and it is equally clear to my mind
that every woman has that same natural
human right to all fair means of self-pro-
tection. Men claim the right to judge for
themselves what measures would best con-
duce to their welfare, and it seems equally
clear that women themselves are the best
judges of their needs and requirements. It
is a foolish fear, and uncomplimentary to
those who entertain it and to those of whom
it is entertained, that, given the opportu-
nity, many women would run wildly after
those avocations for which obviously men
alone are fitted, to the neglect or scorn of
the more peculiarly feminine pursuits. As
well say that to allow girls to study geogra-
phy would determine them all to become
sailors, or foreign merchants.
	I am glad that no woman, not even the
most foolish of our sex, has ever expressed
a desire to dictate to men, as men have
done and many still do on the other hand—
her moderate and sensible argument is, "I
am not your counterpart, but I am your
equal; my mission on earth is as important,
as high and holy as yours, and I have equal
need of unfettered liberty to choose my
own course in life, and pursue the calling
for which I am best fitted. If you need
safeguards around your liberty, life and
property, I need the same. If you are
anxious to foster all good influences and
suppress all evil ones which may surround
our children, I am at least equally so."
	Man is the Knight on the golden side of
the shield, and woman the Knight on the
silver side; and it is by exchange of ideas
that both may arrive at the whole truth of
any matter under consideration, and even
for this reason alone it seems that the State
needs woman's opinions. The wildest
dreamer cannot suppose that women expect
ever to bear an equal share with men in
the burdens of public life, for dearer and
nearer to most women are their maternal
and hearthside duties; but if one woman
is fit and willing to serve the public in any
honorable calling, it is an oppressive law
which forbids. And consoling and cheer-
ing would it be to faithful and devoted
mothers of future citizens, if their children
might grow up in the knowledge that her
devotion to their infant needs was the fruit
of her own free will and choice—that she
was not driven to rearing men and women
by public opinion and laws which debarred
her from anything else. How much keener
in children would be the sense of obliga-

[Column 2]

tion and gratitude to parents, and how
much more vivid would be their realiza-
tion of a mother's sleepleas vigilance in her
watchcare over their helpless infancy, when
they see with their own eyes that she did
it from choice and might have chosen other
occupation. Then the childless wife, the
unmarried and the widow have each her
peculiar need of room to choose her occu-
pation according to her taste and talents.
	"Ben Nevis," correspondent to the "Her-
ald," says  he "can give no good  reason"
why women's liberties should not be as
broad as man's, only—it would not suit his
ideas. But I know several good reasons in
favor of women's equality in law, and they
suit me passing well.
	First, it would be better for women; and
this fact includes
	Second, it would be better for men; and
both these reasons lead to
	Third, it would be better for children.
	These reasons are so interwoven and re-
actionary in their nature, that it is almost
impossible to give them singly, so it I fail
to do that, don't accuse me of having at-
tempted it.
	Woman, born to an inheritance of noble
responsibilities, educated to be a citizen,
knowing that an even half of the world's
weal or woe lies in her hands, debarred
from no pursuit for which her talents fit
her, treated by her brother man as a friend
and co-worker, instead of at first a goddess
and next a slave—I say women so situated
could not be frivolous, giddy, fickle, and
the long etcetera of kindred adjectives now
so often applied to her. Having a prospec-
tive field for the exercise of all her noblest
powers, in the very nature of things must
tend to develop just those qualities and
give them strength to outgrow the inferior
ones. Added respect must give her added
dignity, and freedom foster her patriotism,
and elevate her whole character above petty
follies and narrowmindedness.
	If it be objected that Republican citizen-
ship has failed to do all this for men, I can-
didly admit the fact, and proceed to state
what I conceive to be the reason.
	I do not for one moment claim that liberty
would greatly ennoble women if it were
possible for her to possess it herself, and at
the same time condemn her brother man to
wear a ball and chain; and this, figuratively
speaking, is just what the man has done.
On emerging from monarchial and other
despotisms he has broken his own manacles
and given his own limbs nature's freedom,
but still assures the woman that nature in-
tended her to wear manacles, and made
her wrists and ankles slender on purpose to
fit them; that they are eminently becom-
ing to her, and that she would look immod-
est and altogether displeasing to him with-
out them; and he beseeches her, in the
name of his approval and the eternal fitness
of things, to wear them gracefully. But
since he cannot leave her behind, his own
liberty loses half its value, and his progress
toward perfection is still very slow. At
best, and in individual cases, he takes her
by the hand and assists her what he can,
deeply pities her weakness and incapability,
and considers her extremely fortunate in
having him for her guide, protector and
owner.
	Oftener, he lays his baggage on her back
and runs lighty on, making frequent pauses
to allow her lagging steps to draw near.
During these pauses he visits the pleasure-
gardens and refreshment-stands on either
hand, but decides compassionately that since
merely walking the straight thoroughfare
makes her so tired, it would be the height

[Column 3]

of folly for her to think of adding to her
already severe tasks, and exerting her al-
ready failing strength in making any of
these detours which do not weary him, be-
cause he is so peculiarly adapted to just that
kind of activity.
	One human being may aggrandize him-
self by oppressing another, but he cannot
thus ennoble himself.
	Every act of injustice to a fellow-creature
recoils upon the perpetrator, warping or
dwarfing his or her nature, and blinding
the spiritual eyes. For these reasous, man
cannot hope to ascend the kingly throne of
excellence while his inseparable companion
remains outside the gate in bonds. Since,
as the laws now stand, man holds the atti-
tude of a despot towards woman, having,
without her co-operation or consent,laid her
under heavy restraints and disabities; to so
alter these laws that all future men and wo-
men may be "born free and equal," would
be an act so just and fair, so brave and noble,
as to elevate him to a standard of excellence
higher than any I have been able to portray,
and advance him in our and his own re-
spect and esteem. Liberty, knowledge
and integrity are three things which are
never lessened by being imparted to others;
so let woman advance all she can in patri-
otism, learning, dignity and every good
word and work, and it will detract nothing
from men's abilities, acquirements, or op-
portunities, but only increase the sum total
of the world's intelligence and worth.
	This brings me to "Third, it will be bet-
ter for children." The children are the
mother's peculiar charge, and freely does
she endow them with whatever is hers to
bestow—her time, strength, manners, mind,
morals and education; if they are little, it
is but little she can give, while if she has
much, much will she bestow.
	When she is a patriot, a vigilant watcher
of national and local policy, and forms in-
telligent opinions concerning "men and
measures," how readily her children may
acquire premises from which to draw just
conclusions for themselves, on the noblest
and best of sciences, human government;
and how early and thoroughly they may
become imbued with the love of humanity,
that best and surest indication of a great
and noble soul. I aver, from the best pro-
curable evidence, both positive and infer-
ential, that children will be born better or-
ganized and endowed both physically and
mentally, when the artificial barriers be-
tween father and mother are swept away;
when the greater contentment, the deeper
cultivation, the broader development, the
higher elevation of mothers—and fathers—
will so richly endow their offspring with
great aspirations and powerful intellects
that the race of to-day will be mere pig-
mies beside them.
	Success to our petition for liberty, and to
every measure which conduces to the pro-
gress of the human race.
		L. L. D.
St. George, Feb. 1, 1880.


THE House of Representatives of the
Iowa Legislature, Chicago, Feb. 7, adopted,
by a vote of 87 to 31, an amendment to the
Constitution to be submitted  to a  vote  of 
the people, making free white women eligi-
ble as members of the Legislature.

	BILLS have been introduced in the Iowa
Legislature making  ladies eligible  to the 
office of County Recorder, Couuty Auditor,
and the right to vote for school directors.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE BEAUTIES  OF NATURE.
			-----
	BY EMILY E. STEVENSON.
			-----
We will view the bright beauties of Springtime,
Although 'tis a wintry day;
We will not look back to the past time,
Bnt to the future of beautiful May.

Sweet emblems of innocent childhood
Are the bright sunny flowers of May,
When their buds burst forth into blossom,
And all nature around is so gay.

On the breeze the beautiful flowers
Are wafting their sweetest perfume,
And sipping the dewdrops and showers,
They welcome the morning of June.

So on through the days of a lifetime,
To honor and righteousness cleave,
And never give up or grow weary
Until we have gathered the sheaves.

Then cometh the age of our winter,
When the beauties of youth fade away;
Still it seems grand and majestic,
As all things pass on to decay.

Then may we look forth to the future,
As time daily passeth away,
To the time when the heavens will open
And greet us with beautiful May.


[Column 1]

SAILING

OVER THE SEAS.

	What an "oft told tale" is that of leaving
one's native shore, and sailing away to for-
eign climes! And yet, the surging crowd,
the waving 'kerchiefs and tear-dimmed
eyes, give always a thrill of excitement.
The "Zealandia" moved out at noon on the
17th of July, '79, from San Francisco, and
taking her course Southwest, arrived at
the Hawaiian Islands July 14, '79. The
passage was marked by the same old events
that occur on every trip of the kind—an
intense desire on the part of the passengers
for the first few days to investigate their
cabins, and become intimately acquainted
with the stewardess. I might say, a time
for the ransacking of the various parts of
that useful article, the stomach, and an in-
dignant uprising of the contents thereof to
argue the point; producing quite a fair imi-
tation of a Working-men's Meeting (the
worst coming to the top). After the truce
of peace being ratified, through the agency
of Messrs. Lemon, Sedlitz Powders & Co.,
the patient undulates up on deck, and be-
comes aware of the fact that his head per-
sists in standing still and his feet insist up-
on following the motion of the vessel. A
little practice, however, and then, ho for
dress, dinner, and gossip. There were two
things which impressed themselves particu-
larly on the writer's mind, during the voy-
age, viz.: What astonishingly pretty feet
American girls have, and what pretty hose
are made to add to their attractions! And
what a small amount of music can be heard
when there are two instruments always open,
and a proportion of three to one on board
the ship, who are accomplished musicians
with good voices. Just take, say a ship's
company, out of which two can play a little
and sing a few songs, and the passengers
will, after a few hours steady listening,
silently wander up on deck and murmur to
themselves, "What are the wild waves say-
ing," gazing pensively meanwhile on the
foaming water below, and wishing, oh,
wishing for peace o'er the troubled deep.
The present voyage was, however, a pleas-
ant and speedy one.
	In passing, it might be stated that the
two girl acrobats of California, who were
on board, gave a performance on the tra-
peze. Truly things of the sort are not
pleasing without the pomp, brilliant gas,
and flourish of brass which always accom-
pany them in the "ring." A ripple of ex-

[Column 2]

citement was created by a sham fire, and
the appearance of the seamen who acted as
firemen. About half way across, the splen-
did phenomenon of five suns setting, or
rather dipping in the sea, was witnessed.
No storm, scarcely a cloud seen to vary the
monotony. When passing around the Is-
land of Oahu, it seemed strange to see the
sun hid up by banks of rain-laden clouds.
The scenery around the island is beautiful.
Rounding the point to get into the bay, or
harbor, of Honolulu, one is delighted with
groves of tall cocoanut trees, pretty villages,
suburban villas, tropical vegetation, and
dark, frowning backgrounds of densely
wooded hills. Supper, or dinner, at six
drew us below, and not until the city was
in full view did we again emerge on deck.
As we neared the wharf, the King's band
played the American airs, and actually,
yes, verily struck up selections from Pina-
fore, running on with Nancy Lee. My
blood congealed! I thought these dark-
skinned islanders would never hear of Poor
Little Butter Cup—what—a—Well, well, I
silently devoted the time to introspective
memories.
	The first impressions are always the
deepest—so says the old adage. I think
the first impression made upon my mind
about the Sandwich Islands was made by a 
picture in a very old geography. The sea
was dashing upon the shore, mountains
high, and riding on the waves with narrow
boards were pictures of scores of Indian-
looking creatures apparently being about to
be dashed to pieces on the rocks. Now, I
don't know that I ever thought about this
picture for years, until within a short dis-
tance of Honolulu, when it so suddenly
and clearly rushed into my mind that I
half expected to see the picture a living
reality. Instead, we beheld little dark-
skinned swimmers down by the vessel ea-
gerly beseeching the "haore" to throw "ten
cents dis shide."
	The first view of Honolulu was a very
pretty one, and as we neared the shore
grew fairer every moment. The tropical
trees, the clean white houses, and the back-
ground of rolling hills, made an interesting
sight. The crowd of dark natives on the
shore were neither as noisy nor as rude as
one would expect, but make a path for you
with good-natured politeness. Of course,
outside the gate of the wharf you are ac-
costed by numerous hands and voices, who
noisily entreat your patronage to ride. As
you ride on up through the city, you are
most struck by the narrow, crooked streets.
The compass, its points and use, evidently
entered not into the marking out of these
streets. Some are a half moon and some a
triangle. Take a chart of the war opera-
tions, well, of anywhere will do—they all
look alike—and you have an excellent plan
of Honolulu. The houses are low, and
mostly wood. The dreaded earthquakes
account for this. Very many pretty resi-
dences are scattered throughout the city,
but anything like American elegance,
grandeur, or style seems unknown.
	SUSA.


A WOMAN ON THE WOMAN’S BILL.
			     -----
	How statesmen can oppose the Woman’s
Bill, presented in the Legislature, especially
American statesmen, is one of the mysteries.
In considering the pros and cons, my invol-
untary  expression was, how much shall our
people gain or lose by a course of cautious,
fearful polling against  a  frank, noble  pro-
gressive one?
	I am English born, Americanized now to
an extent, limited if you please, and the
limitation being at the point  where I find


American law precedent, and government
blotched and smeared with feudal and mon-
arichal barbarisms, where I find a failure to
fulfill the promise of its grand Constitution.
These promises, and the God-like sentiment
and the labors of the  founders of this  re-
public, have taken hundreds of thousands
from their native  lands and  made  them
dwellers  here.  Among the grandest of
many great things said in the message to 
old England was, "No taxation without rep-
resentation.”
	I wish to take the ground right here, that
no class does or can in the full sense own
and protect property unless  they  have re-
presentation.
	Now, sir, we sisters want American con-
stitutional rights  in  Utah Territory.  We
wish our legislators to say to the world,
"Behold'! these our wives, daughters  and
sisters are women of God; they stand side
by side with us.” Say to  the  world, these
are they who in the midst of denunciation,
calumny and ostracism,taunts of "courtesan"
and "bastardy  for  their  offspring," have
fled from place to place, and foregone for
principle the dainty, lazy ease of the world,
its pomps, fashions and its flatteries, and
proved themselves worthy to become the
mothers of a race of free men, and lo! we
present them to you  free women, free to
vote, free to hold office, free to honor virtue,
and to take part in legislating  for  its pro-
tection.         Respectfully, etc.,
LOUISA KING SPENCER.
Des. News.  S. L. City Jan. 19, 1880.


A FEW OF MY THOUGHTS.
			    -----
	What are women thought of?  I think
sometimes very little; but when I contem-
plate  what they have to pass through, I
think them  noble;  and  when  they  stand
firm to their calling and office in this king-
dom there is a great and mighty work to
do. It is their special work to raise up their
family in the fear of the Lord, and not only
to teach them, but to set an example worthy
of imitation, for they watch those who are
set to lead them;  therefore  they should be
a light unto  them.  It is a difficult  thing,
with the many besetments surrounding us,
to train up our children in the way they
should go; but we must perservere and do
our part, and those who will not be obedient
must suffer the consequences.
	I think and realize the Primary Associa-
tion is doing much good in this place; there
are  many  truly  noble  spirits among the
younger class, who have a desire for spir-
itual food, and they do enjoy their meet-
ings; and the officers are learning as well
as the little ones—we find there can be
much learned from children; and when we
are doing good to others we are doing good
to ourselves.
	My dear sisters, how thankful we ought
to be that we are honored to live in this day
and age, when we can raise our voices and
proclaim the principles of the Gospel, and
when our words may be published to the
nations of the earth.  We can do this be-
cause we know this is the work of God.
This Anti-Polygamy movement will do us
more good than harm; the Gentile ladies
do not know they are spreading the Gospel
and the principle of Celestial Marriage will,
not die away as they think it will.
	I want to say a word or two about danc-
ing.  The young people engage in that
pastime too much, it seems to me, when
they might be improving their minds on
Gospel truths.  Our young folks  should
have recreation, but not indulge in it to
excess: for I think it is not pleasing in the
sight of the Lord.
Goshen.                    SARAH ROBERTS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.     Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business  communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT
			Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY. FEB. 15, 1880.


SERICULTURE.
	IT will have been seen that an organization
has been  effected  lately,  denominated the
"Utha Silk  Association," for  the  purpose of
giving definite scope  to this  rising  industry
among our people.  A number of our promin-
ent citiz[-]ns have subscribed quite  liberally  to
its stock, and there seems to be a strong desire
manifested that it should be made a success.
	For some time the late President  Brigham
Young encouraged this enterprise, and he was
very efficiently sustained by many of our prom-
inent sisters, who  have  done  all  they  could
to foster and establish it in our midst.  And at
the last bie[-]nial session of the Legislature, the
assembly voted an appropriation  of fifteen
hundred dollars,  "To aid the Utah  Silk Asso-
ciation in purchasing and putting  in  motion
machinery for manufacturing silk."  I under-
stand this appropriation has been mostly  used
for the purpose designtaed in the grant, and
the machinery is now here and ready for use.
It has for years past been practically demon-
strated that in this mountainous country the
natvie silk-producing elements are abundant.
I sincerely hope that the people will take hold
of this industry and work it up with renewed
determination.  To this  end as Trustee-in-
Trust  I have subscribed  stock  therein, and
much more could have been had here, but it
was thought best to have it distributed through
the Territory.  I therefore cheerfully join with
the officers of the Utah Silk Association  in
asking the people to become stockholders, and
cultivate the mulberry as soon as the season
and soil are ready for putting in trees, seed and
cuttings. I also invite the Presidents of Stakes
and Bishops of the Wards to lend  their in-
fluence and aid in behalf of this laudable and 
necessary enterprise, that the labors of our sis-
ters may be brought to a successful issue, and
sericulture, as it should become one of the 
prominent industries of our mountain home.
		JOHN TAYLOR.TO THE FRIENDS OF HOME INDUSTRIES EVERY-
		WHERE.
	Be it known, that on the 17th day of last
month the Utah Silk Association was organ-
ized under Territorial charter.
	The objects of the Association are to promote
the cultivation of silkworms, to manufacture
silk from the raw material, to engage in the
business of buying and selling silk products, to
buy and sell and distribute  silkworm  eggs,  to
encourage the growth of mulberry trees, and to
own and operate a silk factory or factories, and
do all other business connected therewith.  The
capital is $10,000, divided in 1,000 shares of $10
each.
	The directors elected by the stockholders are
Wm. Jennings, Eliza R. Snow, W. H. Hooper,
Zina D. Young, A. M. Musser, M. Isabella
Horne and A. C Pyper.  The officers chosen
by the directors are Wm. Jennings, President;
Eliza R. Snow, Vice President; A. M. Musser,
Secretary; and Paul A. Schet[-]ler, Treasurer.
Over $2,000 of the stock has already been taken,
and the stipulated 25 per cent, paid thereon.
	To enable the Association to carry out the
objects of the  organization, as recited  above,
with zeal and success, additional means are
needed, accordingly a stock book has been
opened in this city, and the  people are hereby
cordially invited to take stock in the institution
and become shareholders therein.  We will be
glad to learn that the leading citizens of the
different sections of the country  will  interest
themselves in this matter and invite subscrib-
ers to this stock and forward the names and
amounts to the secretary without delay, so that
the good work many commence and be conduct-
ed to a successful issue.
	In a short time we hope to be in a position to
advertise for the purchase of cocoons and raw 
silk from the producers, and to give them their 
market value in cash.
	The season to plant young trees and to put in
seed and cuttings will soon be here.  Now is
the time to initiate this work.  Any informa-
tion the people may desire on the subject of 
sericulture, in any or all of its brances, will
be gladly furnished, on application by letter or
otherwise, to the secretary.
		WM. JENNINGS, President.
		A. M. MUSSER, Secretary.
Salt Lake, City, Feb. 6, 1880.


[Column 1]

WOMAN AND HER DUTIES.

	The duties of the gentler sex are a favorite
theme of conversation, and indeed a most im-
portant one, which should be studied and were
it possible be correctly understood. New
light dawns upon this subject, as upon  others,
when one comes to investigate it intelligently
That woman's mission on the earth is a glori-
ous one none can deny who reflect seriously.
upon life and its possibilities. "To bear the
souls of men" and women, immortal souls, is 
something grand and holy. That for this divine
purpose woman should have the most careful
preparation, the largest opportunities for cul-
ture, and the best possible conditions, every
thoughtful person will concede.
	An eminent physician writing upon this
subject says, "when woman permits herself to
bear children she gives bonds to heaven for
their souls." Admitting there is much truth
in this sentiment, though strongly expressed,
then indeed what manner of women ought
mothers, to be and how extremely cautious
should be their choice of fathers for these im-
mortal souls. What then should be the train-
ing of girls, who are to bear these heavy re-
sponsibilities, and to be the mothers of the
races of mankind? Can too much be done to
enlighten their minds, to educate their heads
and their hearts? Girls should be taught from
their earliest years to qualify themselves to
become worthy of the exalted office of mother-
hood,and to choose wisely the companion who
is to be the co-mate in this great work of im-
parting new life to an immortal being. The
power to regulate civil and social conditions
has not yet been equally balanced between
men and women, but has commenced to work
in a small degree and new light is constantly
dawning upon the minds of the people. Should
not woman, the mother, have a voice in what
should be the conditions of the society in which
her sons and daughters are to be ushered? The
government and its regulations,should she not

[Column 2]

have a correct and positive knowledge of,
when so much is at stake? Has not every
mother learned that while crime and
wickedness is countenanced her sons, dearer
far than her own life,are liable to be drawn in-
to the fearful whirlpools of sin and wicked-
ness that are all around? Would not every
intelligent woman be glad to exert an influence
which might be beneficial for the public good?
Single-handed one can do very little, but
united woman's strength might we'gh heavily
in the balance of right. In what way woman
can work most effectually is the question to be
considered?
	That woman's centre is the home-life,that an
inviolate home is her sanctuary, we firmly and
truly believe, but that she should have powe
to exert an instrumentality in all the depart-
ments, whereby her offspring are to be pro-
tected, educated and provided for, seems only
rational and proper.
	If as we have been taught and believe the
Gospel has lifted women to a nobler place than
she occupied before, and the women of this
Church have proved their integrity to its prin-
ciples by practically assisting in working out
a new theory of marriage upon a higher plane,
yet an entire innovation upon the accepted
theory and practise of the countries in which
they were reared, then are they not capable of
having a voice,a positive and well-defined influ-
ence in the education and government which
is to affect in a large sense the posterity born
and reared under these conditions?
	That women who have had large experiences,
especially in this Church are capable of doing
great good in a broad sphere, we do not hesitate
to say; and we candidly believe that when
woman's duties, rights and privileges come to
be more fully understood the way will be more
widely opened, and the glad result will be more
of that finer element of spirituality which wil
strengthen the higher and nobler characteris-
tics of the human soul and aid men and wo-
men in the struggle for victory over sin and
error. Meantime earnest, prayerful women
with steadfast hope and faith will look to the
future, and as prejudice dies out before them
and their work, they will be justly recognized
in their womanly efforts to aid in a higher,
broader and deeper civilization for all mankind,
which will help prepare the way for the Mil-
lennium, the reign of peace on earth.


OUR TREASURES.

 With  what zealous if not jealous care we
watch over our earthly treasures, the little cas-
kets  that  contain them are carefully looked
after by day and by night,  This  is right and
custom has made it so, but I often think when
eternal treasures are committed to our care are
we consistent with the laws of nature, or do we
conform too much to custom that delicate mach-
inery.  I will call it the vital functions of life?
Ususally these must be bound and confined
sufficiently tight to hold 5 or 6 yards of cloth
without any support from the shoulders,(I will
except a few)  and  they were from  a  foreign
country.  We have a high altitnde, the air is
high we need a much greater quantity to in-
flate the lungs properly than in lower altitudes,
then why not cut the bands  used for the babe
with narrow juices across the shoulders, or sew
on an extra piece, thus supporting  the  babe's
alothes and not confining  the precious  jewel-
case in such an  uncomfortable  condition  that
all kinds of remedies are needed to stop, its
cries, when it is only on account of the ignor-
ance of the mother, or nurse.  By  attaching a
old of tape doubled or soft cloth about an inch


long to the lower edge of the fi[-]st band that is
placed around the treasure casket, and every
time we pin on the napkin we catch in this
loop with the pin,it holds all to its place with-
out any trouble for often the clothes by lifting
are across the center of the body and the child
cries through discomfort, thenthe trotting process
is resorted to and the consequence is frequently
a protrusion, of the navel: or some other  parts
and  after the sad discovery  is made a piece of
lead is needed, or perchance a truss, and often
a physician is called and much  temporary suf-
fering follows if not an affliction for life.
	If we want strong  minds  we need  healthy
bodies.  Then let us seek to be consistent with
the laws of life and health, study these things
carefully, and protect with a zealous care our
jewels.
	Our lives are  made up of the day's incidents,
then let each day be fruitful with true  lessons,
diligently  learned; this is one simple lesson
gained  by  experience  and  if  mothers would
adopt its practice much  annoyance, pain  and
suffering could be  avoided,  and  the  external
adorning of our jewel-case remain complete.
					ZlNA D. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Y. L. M. I. A.

	A FEW GENERAL ITEMS.

	Condensing from Quarterly Reports, we find
that each and every Association, feels a worthy
pride and interest, in its own and Sister Asso-
ciations, and sincere  love  for  the  Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at large; and
a desire  to  improve, progress  and  become a
united and solid band of  laborers in the cause
of truth and right, after the pattern afforded by
their worthy and revered leaders.
	Their general exercised have  been nearly
similar, consisting of prayer, singing, addresses;
readings, recitations,  (select  and  original)
poems,  religious, historical,  biographical, and
and other standard literature.
	Their labors have been such as their locality
admitted, some directing  their  attention  to
mulberry planting, and silk  culture; some have
labored as far as able in the interest  of  grain,
storing; others have made large donations to
the Temple Fund, the Emigration  Fund, or
sent means to our Missionaries abroad.  Many
have aided the poor of their Wards. assisted in
building Ward Meeting Houses  or  Relief  So-
ciety Halls; paid tuition  of  orphan children,
furnished Association libraries for themselves,
subscribed  for different  Church  papers and
books; besides several of them editing  maun-
script Association papers.		A. J. C.


t[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	A Sister writing to us from Beaver Jan. 2,
1880. wishes us to publish what the ladies there
have resolved upon doing Viz. petitioning the
present Legislature of Utah to pass some enact-
ment making women eligible to office &c.
This letter we withheld having been advised
to be quiet and publish the petitions as they
were presented in the Legislative Assembly.
However as so much has been said with re-
gard to a few ladies in this city only wanting
any change in the statute and that said ladies
were hankering for office and many other
very disagaeeable things, we will publish
items from the letter which have a direct bear-
ing upon the question.
		BEAVER, Jan. 2, 1880.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister—I have been requested to write

[Column 2]

to the EXPONENT,making known to its readers
what we are trying to do in Beaver Co. or ask-
ing their co-operation. I should have done
this several days ago but have been so unwell,
I did not feel competent. The ladies of Beaver
about 20, in number assembled at a  meeting
for school purposes, to appoint trustees; with a 
view to give to our Schools a new impetus
(considering them at a low ebb) we resolved to
appoint a lady trustee: one for certain, and two
if allowable. We were opposed and defeated:
the argument was, "no law for it, no law for 
it." We argued the point. I remarked that to
our certain knowledge there was a lady Super-
intendent, over Cache Co. schools: * * *
Our argument did not prevail and, we at once
resolved to send a petition to our Legislature
We organized a meeting appointed a chair
man and Cor. Secretary. Who accordingly
commenced writing the different counties,
sending, a copy of our petition and  requesting
the co-operation of both males and females
We have been very sucessful here,all the prin-
cipal gentlemen in the place have signed the
petition. * * * The Mormon brethren with
only one or two exceptions,one very "knowing
man," refused, expressing his views on wo-
man's rights,in this manner. "All the rights a
woman needs is the right to a good husband."
Wonderful wisdom! another remarks after this 
manner,"If the right to hold office could be re-
strtcted to school trustees, I would not object.
* *	We expect large returns from the
several counties, so we shall send a long list
of names, and our delegate, promises to do all
he can to help us. We want Sister E. R. Snow
should sanction what we are doing, we firmly
believe she will. * * We want no party
spirit in the affair; even if decided in our favor
let it never be said that we do things for op-
position, as political men do, we hope to be an
example to all such men; peace on earth and
good will to all is our mission here.
	Now Sister Wells I hope what we are doing
will meet your mind, as also the minds of the
other responsible sisters. The ladies assembled
last evening, I read to them what I had written
to you, which they fully approved. A great
number of names have already been obtained;
it is our united opinion that with few excep-
tions this entire County would sign the peti-
tion, could we have access to them. Our
method has been to send young women to read
the petition, and get signatures. I will men-
tion one thing which stimulated us to act in
this matter. Men teachers are employed and
higher wages given them than would be given a 
woman, equaly well qualiffed,who smoke cigars
and use tobacco setting this example before the
children. Do you believe a lady trustee would
employ one of that type? You would be aston-
ished to see the rage there is for smoking
among the half-grown boys! And I would
mention the habit of drinking liquor, but it
wounds me to think upon it; and I feel hope-
ful about a reformation, continually talked of;
and I try to believe it is not so bad as outward
appearances indicate. Please ask Brother
Wells to lend his influence, to this good wook.
we assure him it is not for any selfish motive,
or desire for popularity; but a humble desire to
do good, by taking measures to improve
the rising generation. We have great faith in
good.men. We check every appearance of a
vindictive spirit towards men who oppose us,
and ridicule the idea of "women holding office:"
they will change their views ere long, when
they see wise women having a voice in public
affairs,and see how matters flurish under their
administration: Pardon me for saying so
much, the subject seemed to demand it.

[Column 3]

	With many good wishes for your success
helping on a brighter future, and asking you
prayers
	L.B. PRATT


A LITTLE GIRL'S LETTER.
   We publish  below  a  letter dictated by a
little girl just previous to her death.  It was
addressed to the children of the Primary As-
sociation of which she was a member.  Tina
Pearce died January 24,1880. She was greatly
beloved by all who were intimately associated
with her and must have been a child of spiritual
endowments.  She endeared herself to all  who 
were intimately associated with her, and her
President in the Primary Association, Mrs Jo-
phine R. West, was conscious of her rare genius
and great spiritual power.
   On the occasion of the Surprise  of the  Pri-
mary Association to Sister E. R. Snow in Mrs.
Jane' S. Richards' parlor in Ogden, Tina was
present, and contributed her share to the en-
tertainment.  At the  concert  given  by  the
young peopla in Ogden, Tina  sang in a  duet
"Our Grandmother's Arm Chair,", which made
an impression on all present.
 The dear little girl  died of  diphtheria and
suffered very greatly.  The day previous to her
	death she asked if she might  write a letter  to
the Primary Association but when the pen and
ink were brought she was too weak to write, and
her father wrote as she dictated.  We trust
the children of the Primary  Associations
throughout  the  Territory  will  be  impressed
with the last words of this dear child, addressed
to them, and that it may be a powerful incen-
tive for good to the little ones.  We extend
our heartfelt  sympathies to  the  parents  and
friends  of  the  deceased, and trust they will
remember that,  "God knoweth best."
  "DEAR BROTHERS AND SISTERS--I am about
to leave you. Till we meet in heaven, be faith-
ful to the  cause  of  Christ.  My  spirit  shall
watch over you and be around  you  while you
remain on the earth.  I am going to  sing  my
next  song  in  heaven.  Obey  your  president
and council, and all good principles. I am go-
ing to a better place than this, and if you are
faithful you shall come.  Love one another
and try to help one  another  and  you  can.
You may bring me some flowers if you  wish,
or come and see me, Good bye, until we meet
in heaven.  I remain your affectionate sister in
the Gospel of Christ.  TINA PEARCE


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Goodwin’s Ranch, Idaho, of inflama-
tion on the lungs, Mary Adelia, infant daughter
of John and Mary Adelia Homer.  Born  Nov.
30th, 1879; died Jan. 24th, 1880.
Another sweet, angelic child
Joins the bright company,
On which the Savior fondly smiled,
Saying. "Let them come to me!"
						LULA

DIED. In  Ogden  City  Nov. 20, 1879.  Lucy
daughter  of  Ralph  and  Jane  Douglas  born
November 1, 1867.  Her parents are very much
grieved at the loss of this darling child, but in 
aflictions like this there is no comfort save in
the Lord, and the principles of our most holy
religion.  We know that if we  are  faithful we
shall meet our darling Lucy again, where there
is no more pain or sorrow.
					HENRIETTA DOUGLAS.

DIED suddenly, at Kanarra, Kane Co., Feb.
1, 1880, after a three months illness, Lauraette


Parker, fourth daughter of John D. and Sophia
Roundy  Parker, aged fifteen years.  Her sick-
ness was supposed to be  the  result  of  taking
cold, which settled in her eye and throat.  She
was considered much better, ate  hearty din-
ner, and within  half  an  hour after  her  spirit
had taken its flight.
 She was calm  and composed  through all her
sickness,  and  was,  indeed, possessed  of  that
sterling integrity and virtue, that  really  char-
acterizes the Saint of God.  She was a faithful,
loving daughter to her parents, kind and affec-
tionate to  her brothers  and  sisters, steadfast
and true, to her young associates,  and beloved
by  all who knew her.
	May God, the Eternal  Father, comfort her
bereaved parents and friend, and may her sis-
terd and young companions  emulate her vir-
tues that it may also be well with them.
Lauraette  is  not  dead,  but  gone  before, and
her works do follow her.
						E. DAVIS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The Eighth Quarterly Conference  of the
Relief Societies in the Juab Stake  of  Zion
was held in Nephi  on  the  16th  of  Jan.
commencing  at 10  o'clock  A. M.  Mrs.
Hannah Grover Stake  Pres.  of the  Young
Ladies presiding.  Most  of the  officers of
the Stake and  the  branches  were  present,
(some absent on account of sickness) also the
officers of the Young  Ladies  and  Primary
Associations, and a goodly number  of the
members. On the stand  with  the  officers
were several  of  the bretheren. After  the
usual  opening  exercises  of  singing and
prayer, the afternoon was occupied  by  the
Young Ladies, and Primary  Associations,
in reading [-]nd giving verbal reports, which
indicated great improvment, and that their
Presidents and  other  officers  were very
much encouraged  with  present  prospects.
The afternoon was occupied by the Relief
Societies, Mrs. Amelia  Goldsbrough, pres-
iding.  The minutes of the last quarterly
conference  were  read  and  accepted,  then
the quarterly reports of the Nephi, Levan,
and Mona branches, were read, which were
quite encouraging,  showing that the sisters
generally  were  alive  to  their  duties and
that a spirit of oneness was on the increase.
Pres.  Goldsbrough  then  stated  that  she
with her counselors and  others had  visited
the different  branches and was happy to
say that she found a spirit of improvement
among the sisters, and a desire  manifested
to perform  every  known  duty,  and,  that
the Presidents of the different  associations
felt greatly blessed in laboring to teach and
instruct the rising generation  in  Zion, re-
alized the  Lord was  pouring out his Spirit
upon the young people and  children.  En-
couraged the sisters to still strive to do  all
they  could for the  advancement  of  the 
kingdom of God on the earth, and to seek
to sustain  the servants  of the Lord and
each other, that we might show  to the 
world that we were a band of sisters, united
for the good of God's people, and mankind
in general.  The time was well occupied by
the Presidents  of  the  branches  and  Mrs.
Goldsbrough's counselors, who spoke many
words of encouragement  to  those present.
Mr. H. H. Brown, Counselor to  President
Teasdale, and others of the brethren, spoke
words that were calculated  to  strengthen
and encourage the sisters  in  every  good
word and work.  Choir sang. Benediction.
		AMELIA GOLDSBROUGH, Pres.
		AMY L. BIGLER Sec'y.

	BRIGHAM CITY, ARIZONA.
	The Relief Society of  this place  is doing
very well, considering  our  circumstances.
Mrs.  Mary  E.  Whiting, President,  Mrs.
Elizabeth  B. Smith  and  Mary E. Skinner,
Counselors.  Living as we do in the United
Order, we have no poor to look after, but
we take care of the sick and try to comfort
and bless them.  There are a great  many
ways of doing good in this Church--we can
help to build temples, gather the poor, etc.;
we are trying  to  gather a little  money to
send to the Manti Temple.  We have our
monthly meetings  the  first  Thursday  in
every month, and working meetings every
week;  our  meetings are generally well at-
tended.  We desire to be one with  our sis-
ters  in  the  cause  of  truth.  Your most
valuable pape[-] comes regularly, and is very
much appreciated by  all.  Wishing it suc-
cess, we are  very respectfully your sisters
in the covenant of Truth,
			MARY A. ADAMS Sec'y
Jan 28, 1880.


FOREIGN COORESPONDENCE.

	PAPANUI, CANTERBURY,
		NEW ZEALAND Dec 30, 1879.
DEAR EDITOR:
	We feel  truly  thankful  to  God our
heavenly Father, for this  privilege  we en-
joy of expressing  our feelings  in the work
of the Lord, and of being  associated  with
our sisters in Zion, in the great work of the
Latter-days, and though thousands of miles
separate us, and the blue  Pacific rolls  its
billows between us and our home, still we
feel the impulse of that Holy Spirit, which
is working among our sisters, in the far off
land of Zion, where the good, and the true,
the virtuous, and the brave, are  working
out the grand designs of our great  Creator,
and our hearts  long  to see  the  day when
we can assemble with you,in your meetings,
and be  one  with  you  in  all  good  works.
But during  the time  of  our captivity  in
Babylon,  we don’t wish to  be  idle,  or
cowards who dare not stand up in defence
of our holy religion, but we will show to all,
that our colors are nailed to the mast, and
that the motto is “No Surrender;” and as
Latter-day  Saints  we  will try to  set  our
friends and neighbors an example that will
be  worthy of imitation; and that we do in-
deed love all holy and righteous principles,
those which will elevate us in the scale of in-
telligence,and which will enable us to leave
the world better  than we found it, by train-
ing  up  our  children  in  those  principles
which will make them better men and wo-
men, and more  willing to do the mind and
will of the Lord than we are,through many
false  traditions we have inherited from our 
forefathers.
 On Dec. 23th, Elder  Thos.  A. Shreeve,
President  of  the  Canterbury Conference,
called the sisters  together, and laid before
them some of  those  principles  which  are
taught in the Relief Society at home, and
said that  he  felt  impressed  by  the
Spirit to form a Relief Society  in the  Can-
terbury Conference,as it would be a blessing
to the sisters,  and they  would increase in
knowledge, and  understanding, and com-
prehend woman’s great mission  in  the
Church of Jesus Christ.  Many of the sisters
expressed themselves willing to help in the
work, they saw its necessity, and wishing
to be up with their sisters in Zion,in every
good work of the Gospel,were willing to do
their best.  And when  we  tell  you  that
some of them came nine miles and fifteen
miles, and others several  miles,  and  all
feel determined to  be at  every good work
you may have an idea how they feel in the
work of  the  Lord.  And that though we
may be far  from  home, we hail with joy
everything in the Gospel that we are per-
mitted to practice  in  this wicked and cor-
rupt nation.  And we feel that another step
has  been  taken  towards that glorious
work, which is to cover the earth  with the
knowledge and glory of the Lord, and hum-
ble as we may be, and surrounded on every
side, with the powers of darkness, with the
help of Israel's God, we  will stand  by our
brethren in this great cause, and help them
to combat error, and keep our children as
free from the sins and folly  of  this world as
we can.  Sisters in Zion,give us  your faith
and prayers, that we may  be  faithful with
you in the great cause of the Lord.
	The following Sisters were then set apart.
Ann Jones, President.  Johanna Larson and
Agnes Dook Counselors, Rosabela Tregagle
Secratary.  Meetings to be held last Monday
in each month.  Number of members 23.
	After the meeting we had a picnic, and
enjoyed ourselves to  our hearts content, in
games,  and  innocent fun;  plenty of  good
food, and pure cold water was partaken of,
no intoxicating  drinks,  no swearing.  All
was peace, love and joy, gladness beamed
from every face, and when we parted at
night to go to our homes seperated from
each other better prepared  to  meet  with
the trials of life.  It will be a pleasure to
look back upon the day when the Relief
Society of the Canterbury Conference was
organized.  May God our heavenly  Father
watch over, and preserve all Israel is the
prayer of your Sister in the Gospel of peace.
		ROSABELLA TREGAGLE, Sec'y,
	Canterbury Relief Society.


﻿ITEMS.

	A prominent gentleman admitted he had
declared publicly that “no pure and virtu-
ous woman would wish to hold a political
office;” said he would yet say, he did “not
believe God ever intended a woman to hold
an office.” I thought, what of Miriam,
the prophetess; why did not the great
prophet and leader, Moses, cut down her
ambition? And could both he and Aaron
have been duped by a woman, men of God
as they were? Was Deborah, the judge, a
pure and virtuous woman? The Bible does
not record that the court atmosphere pol-
luted her fame. In the New Testament
the Elder sends reverent greeting to the
“elect lady.” Mistaken man!
	Is not Queen Victoria a pure and virtuous
woman? Did not Louis Napoleon and Em-
peror Wilhelm leave their empires in the
charge of their wives, as Regents? They
had more confidence in woman’s ability and
integrity, more confidence in their honor,
than to fear the effect of “political contami-
nation.”
	But what bewilders me is, why, when
our brethren know that Mormon women’s
political efforts are in harmony with coun-
sel, that they should treat the subject with
ridicule. Women did not ask for the bal-
lot in Utah until Pres. Young said they
ought to have it. As to the Police Court,
what woman wants to be a Justice of the
Peace, or a Constable? I know of no aspi-
rant for either office, though it is considered
lucrative (a consideration with gentlemen).
Men talk of the mire of courts and poli-
tics, but they avoid the suggestion that a
woman might be a Chaplain, and remain
“pure and virtuous;” and there are some
ladies we know who we think would make
good clerks, or even Legislators; and should
they even in time attain to Senatorship,
would we, think, be satisfied with their
stated salaries, without “voting themselves


kid gloves, neckties, pocket handkerchiefs," 
etc., as “contingent expenses?"
	Just as fierce a war was waged  against
those unfeminine women who would study
medicine, knowing how many of their own
sex dreaded being  attended by gentlemen
practitioners, preferring for themselves and 
children a woman’s presence, sympathy,
and intuition  of just  what they  felt, “be-
cause she is a woman and knows just what
is meant when told some particular ache.”
And as women  have  proven  themselves
competent M. D's., so also I have no doubt
will some women prove themselves equally
competent and eminent politicians, if wise
and generous men accord them the privi-
lege of equal political rights.
	It looks as though some men said in their
hearts, “You may vote, for I need your
vote, but you can’t have half my privilege
to hold office and earn what you want, pay-
ing for it yourself.” Political rights look a
good deal like this to me:  When I was a
little girl, we frequently went in crowds to
gather wild nuts.  On one occasion, one
girl in the crowd had a hammer, and offered
to crack all the nuts for the crowd.  When
she had done so she gave us each a small
share,  keeping  about  three-fourths  of the
amount for herself.  Her explanation  was,
that she was the girl that cracked the nuts,
and ought to have the largest share;  we
had no hammers, anyhow, and ought to be
satisfied.  But when we each expressed
our willingness to do our own  work, if she
would lend  the  hammer,  she  said she
couldn’t see it.  And so with the gentle-
men (some  of  them);  they don’t wish to
lend us the hammer of political advantage.
					CINDERELLA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN ADDRESS.

		CONTINUED.
	And yet we are asked what we want that
we have not already gotten, as if we were
importunate  children  clamoring  for the
sweet meats  that  are supposed  to  be  too
strong for our digestion.
	We want, an open field and no favor; we
want you to decide upon the merits  of  our 
case and not out of a  spirit  of  chivalry  to
our sex, but upon those principles of equali-
ty that grow out of the maxim, “what you
would that others would do unto you, do ye
even so unto them.” We want equal and
exact justice, we want  for  our  girls  the
same chances in the race, that are provided
for our boys.  We want to be allowed  to
dicide,  what  our sphere  is, and not be
advised by every quack in law, or theology,
that, "it is not decent for a woman to speak,
and that if she thirsts for knowledge she
must ask her husband at home.  We want
capacity to be the test of power.  We be-
lieve that "taxation without representation,
is tyranny now, as much as it was, a hund-
red years ago, we want to pay our taxes
like honest citizens, but we want a voice in
the uses to which they are to be put.  We
want all the schools  that  are  supported by
the Government to admit  girls as  well  as
boys.  We want all churches that  claim to
be any thing but Pagan in  their  doctrines
to open their doors  to  women  and men
alike.  We want the right of trail by juries
of our peers, we want our colleges to admit
young women to the same course, and on
the same conditions as they do young men.
All these things,  and  many more,  we ask
in the name of common  humanity,  and we
will not  be  contented  with  the half  loaf
that is being grudgingly offered. The de-
mands of the age, are radical, and there
can be no half way measures.  Belva Lock-
wood, of Washington city, last winter was
admitted  to  practice  law  in  the  U.  S.
Supreme  Courts  after  having waited for
years, the only bar to her admission being
her sex.  The rusty hinges of Harvard Col-
lege are slowly creaking to admit women to
the same course of study, but not the same
honors; the young lady students are not to
be called students, and are not to use the
college library, or be admitted to competi-
tive honors, and not entitled to diplomas
when the course is finished; here is a bit of
fossilized wisdom  worthy  to  be remem-
bered.
	Mrs Van Cotta preacher of marked ability
was refused  the right of being ordained by
the Rev. Bishops of California  because she
had the misfortune to be a woman.  Within
a few weeks a venerable  pious  woman  was
refused a hearing in a  well known  church
in our own  county, because it was not con-
sidered decent for a woman to speak  in  a
church.  In Wisconsin lately Lavinia Good-
ell, was refused admission to  the  Supreme
Court of the state, not  for  lack of qualifica-
tion, but because the learned judge decided
that being a woman she was not a person.
	This might be borne perhaps with some
degree of patience, if all men who are legally
constituted, our representatives, were gen-
erous, just and chivalrous, but the general
reader knows that today a large proportion
of the women who lose  their  lives by vio-
lence, are wives, who are sacrificed by their
affectionate, "divinity ordained" protectors.
One of the quiet streets of Oregon is haunted
by the bloody wailing ghost  of a murdered
wife and mother, who met her  death sud-
denly  and  violently, by  the  hand  of the
man who solemnly promised at the alter to
love and cherish and protect her.  Such trage-
dies are not very  common, and yet they
occur often enough  to convince us  that we
need all the protection  that  our  rights as
citizens entitle us to.  Many a timid  wife
runs the risk of being butchered,  rather
than face the dreadful advertisement, "Left
my bed and board  without  just  cause  or
provocation,"  &c.  &c.  Society  has  many
crimes to atone for in its way of treating
women. A woman surely who is not too
good to be kicked or beaten  to  death  by
her legal head, is not too good to vote.
	All women are, or ought to be, interested
in helping to reform the abuse growing out
of such a slavish system.  Unless husbands
and wives can dwell together in unity, give
the man the bed and the wife the board.
We have on this Continent  every  thing
calculated to make us rich, prosperous and
happy, except freedom but  institutions are
all based upon the  fundamental  principles
of equality, if we make sex a qualification
that must forever bar one half of the people
from any participation in public affairs, we
withhold forever from women and their
female posterity  the blessing  of  liberty.
To them this government has no just powers,
derived from the consent of the governed,
to  them  this  government  is  not  a
democracy it is not a republican.  It  is
an ristocracy a  hateful  oligarchy  of
sex,  the  most  hateful aristocracy
every established on the face of the globe.
This aristocracy which ordains all men sov-
ereigns, all women subjects, can never be
perpetuated, in a land claiming to be  free.
But in the  face  of all  these  humiliating
facts, there are good  omens for the speedy
enfranchisement of woman.


ANOTHER MANIFESTATION OF GOD’S
		GOODNESS.		

A few evenings ago, as my girl sat by


the stand reading, she evidently  knocked
the lamp off on to the carpet; I sprang for
a woolen  quilt  which  lay on the lounge,
expecting to see a tremondous fire. But
on discovering it to be only a common blaze,
I called to her to blow it out; but instead,
she caught it up as quick as thought, which
sent the blaze down into the oil (there was
about a pint of oil in the bowl of the lamp),
which caused a wonderful torch.  I need
not undertake to describe to you the fright
it gave me, for I expected every second to
see the lamp burst in her face, as she ran
across the room to the door; but instead of
turning the handle she turned the key,
which I consider a very providential thing;
I thought I must open the door and dash
out the lamp, but as I was about to do so
the oil went out as though  something
dropped from above on to it.
 I immediately exclaimed, the Lord says
they that tithe shall not be burned; and He
would not let me be burned, so he has put
that fire out.  The Scripture was fresh in
my mind, as I had paid my tithing that
day. Anyhow, I consider it the safest and
the best way to be on the sure side, pay
our, tithing and obey every other command-
ment which God has given.
	I would recommend to every Latter-day
Saint to read the Book of the Prophet
Joshua, and notice how particular he was
in charging the people of God to keep all
the commandments and observe all the or-
dinances, which, if they did, what great
blessings  they  would  obtain; but if they
neglected these things, what awful scourges
would come upon them.  He speaks  very
particularly  against their letting their sons
and daughters marry outside of the Church,
which if they did they should have thorns
in their sides, and their pillows should be
wet with tears.
	Rest assured, my beloved friends, the
same causes will produce the like effects in
our day as in all others when God has an
organized Church on the earth, to whom
He reveals His will  through  His prophet.
Therefore, let  us  govern  ourselves accord-
ingly, that we may be accounted worthy to
inherit  the blessings of thrones, principali-
ties, powers; and an endless  continuation
of lives in the presence of the Father and
the Son, with all our dear friends who have
gained the crown of life.
	Recently I had a very  singular dream,
and I wished to know what the interpreta-
tion of the dream was, and this is the  in-
terpretation  which came to me:  Our com-
positions and all our conversation must be
holy; they must  not be mixed  up  with
rough  or vulgar words and phrases, or we
would be ashamed to have them  exhibited
in a coming day.  Mothers, while your
children’s minds  are young and  tender,
teach  them  to  abhor  rough  words;  teach
them to use  good  and  proper  language;
teach them to treat everybody with respect;
and in fine, teach them to be gentlemen
and ladies, fearing  God  and  reverencing
His holy name, that they may be a blessing
and comfort to you in your deelining years.
	 LUCY M. SMITH.


A CRITICISM OF FRANCIS PARKMAN

	"The reciprocity  between  the two  sepa-
rate halves  of human nature extends over
a wide field, not only in passions and emo-
tions, but in the regions of moral and intel-
lectual life.
	"It is a fructifying  power, with which
neither the world of thought nor the world
of action could well dispense."  So writes
Francis parkman in his essay on the "Wo-


man Question," which is the acknowledged
platform of the Woman Suffragists, the
truth which shall bring to them a complete
victory. Could  the  author  of this  axiom
have drawn his arguments from these pre-
mises, and firmly applied them with an un-
biased judgment, his conclusion would have
been far different.  He evidently goes into
the contest  with  a  prejudiced  eye, and
warps everything to the end he seeks.
	He affirms  Woman has  an "intractable
will" with  which "Man's  resolution cannot
cope in  the  political  arena  or  in the
halls of legislation."  To prove his position
he brings  up  from  the  barbarism  of the
South the falsely educated women  of the
rebellion, and sets up Shakespeare's Lady
Macbeth as a measure of American women,
and then coolly says when Woman is fairly
inside of politics, she will become a Delilah
to 'spread her snares for the  congressional
Samsons; and the power  before which the
wise fail and the mighty fall  will  be in-
voked against the sages and heroes  of the
Capitol.
	Oh! what an impotent conclusion, what a
libel on the mothers, wives, and sister, who
stood, so grandly calm and all sustaining in
the hour of  our conflict, and ensured us the
victory! What an insult to our manhood!
	Again he writes, one of the chief dan-
gers of popular governments is that of in-
considerate and rash legislation.  This dan-
ger would be increased immeasurably if the
most impulsive and excitable  half of hu-
manity had an equal voice in making the
laws.
	Those who are familiar with the society
of Friends will at once see the fallacy of
this conclusion.  For two hundred years
their women have enjoyed this privilege so
far as all rules, regulations and business
transactions are concerned.  They mostly
meet in separate sessions, though occasion-
ally in joint session.  A few years since the
writer was present at one of these held in
New Bedford.  The men discussed  and
passed a measure  which  was of doubtful
expediency and somewhat imperfect in  its
application.  It was sent  over  to  the wo-
men, and in due time came  back  disap-
proved, was laid on the table, and meeting
adjourned.  Where was the rash legislation?
Whoever attends the joint sessions will ob-
serve the men do most of the talking, and
sometimes get  things  somewhat mixed,
causing undue excitement.  At this junc-
ture some woman rises in all the gentleness
of womanhood and in words calmly and
fitly spoken brings the assembly to its prop-
er dignity.  Where does the rashness come
in? So, we might go on to the end, refut-
ing his arguments at almost every point.
T.K. Earle.
- "Woman's Journal."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SHORT WORDS.

 The Hon. Horatio Seymour spoke before
the New York School  Commissioners  at
Utica  last February, on "The Use of Short
Words."  He made his meaning clear by
using only very short words in his speech.
One good point was made by him when he
said:  "Crime sometimes  does not look  like
crime  when it is set  before us in the many
folds of a long word. When a man steals
and we call it "defalcation," we are at a loss
to know if it is a blunder  or a  crime.  If
he does not tell the truth, and we are told
that it is a case of "prevarication," it takes
us some time to know just what we should
think of it.  No man  will ever cheat him-
self into wrong-doing, nor will he be  at a
loss to judge of others, if he thinks and


speaks of acts in clear, crisp terms.  It is
a good rule, if one is at a loss to know if an
act is right or wrong, to write it down in
short, straight-out English."  "In  other
ways,"  he  said,  "we gain  by  the  use  of
short words.  They show that we know and
mean what we say, and thus have weight
with those who hear us; and they kindle
in other minds the feelings which move us.
No one, who means in a deep, strong way
what he says, ever pauses  to  unfold  long
words of Greek  or Latin origin, nor speaks
in a roundabout way.  Rage and fear strike
out their terms like the sharp crack of the
rifle when it sends its bullets straight to
the point.  The fact that they come to our
lips is strong proof that  we know and feel
what we talk about.  On the other hand,
when we try to tell things too great for the
mind to graps, we fall into the use of great
long-winded phrases.
	"Love, nor  hate,  nor  zeal,  ever  waste
their force  by the use of involved or long-
winded  phrases.  Short  words  are  not
vague sounds which lull us as they fall up-
on the ear.  They have a clear ring, which
stir our minds or touch our hearts.  They
best tell of joy or grief, of rage or peace, of
life or death.  They are felt by all, for their
terms mean the same thing to all men.  We
learn them in youth.  They are on our lips
through all days, and we utter them down
to the close of life.  They are the apt terms
with which we speak of things which are
high, or great, or noble.  They are the
grand words of our tongue-they teach us
how the world was made.  God said, "Let
there be light, and there was light.'"
	The speech has been  printed  and  dis-
tributed.  It is amusing and sensible.


﻿ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE--Up stiars, in Old  Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods,  Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings,  Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholeslae Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
oods.  Etc., Etc.

DAVID JAMES
	(Successor to Michell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two  blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church. 
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

	A LARGE STOCK;
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT-
LER, Agent of the  PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-Made 
Blankest,	Brown Yarn,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,	Wool Batting,
Shawls,	Colored Yarns, Broom,
Linseys,	Cassimeres,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds, Brushes, &c.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17  East Temple Street.
	MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The  latest and most stylish modes of 
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also a nice
selection in Flowers,  Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes  Country dealers,
please call  Ladies' Hair work in all its branches.  Good
work guaranteed.

		Z. C. M. I.
	Wholesale and Retail Dealing
		in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Cartpets, Ladies and  Children's Shoes,
Dry  Goods,  Shawls  and  Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware, and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED,
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to call  and  examine the most
complete assortment  of Curls,  Braids,  Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
 All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most  Artistic
style.  Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
					JOSEPHINE E GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.			97 Kimball Block.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING M CHINE.
 IF not you should do so at once, and examine  the New
Ideas in Sewing  Machine  Construction  The  New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its  self-
setting and self-threading hurtle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable.  Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co.,  Chicago, Ill.
	O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
FEATHERS WALL PAPER
		AND
ABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St.,  Salt Lake Ci


THE CHINESE WALL–An American en-
gineer in China has been making a fresh
examination of its “Great Wall.” The di-
mensions have been given so often that we
need not repeat them; but the structure for
a distance of 1,728 miles is “carried from
point to point in a perfectly straight line,
across valleys and plains and over hills,
without the slightest regard to the config-
uration of the ground, sometimes plunging
down into abysses a thousand feet deep.
Brooks and smaller rivers are bridged over
by the wall, while on both banks of larger
streams strong flanking towers are placed.”
Perhaps the Emperor Nicholas had this
contempt for obstacles in mind when he
solved the problem of the best railroad
route between St. Petersburg and Moscow
by drawing a straight line by a ruler be-
tween the points on the map and having 
the road constructed as thus indicated.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
