Vol. 8.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1879. 	No. 4.


POEM

AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO BISHOP
	EDWARD HUNTER ON HIS EIGHTY SIXTH
	BIRTHDAY.

We hail thee, as the hero of the day!
   A veteran in integrity and truth,
An honest man, thy friends and neighbors say,
   Of sterling principle from early youth.
Well hast thou fought life’s battles, brave and strong,
   Nor turned aside for honor, or for fame,
But valiantly contended ’gainst the wrong;
   And thus secured a grand and noble name.
Among the chosen people of the Lord
   Thy lot was cast, while yet in manhood’s prime;
And through obedience to the Gospel word,
   The record of thy life is made sublime.
Thou wert a pilgrim in the noble band
   Who sought the desert, that they might be free:
And in this barren and deserted land,
   Hoped to gain peace, and rest, and liberty.

And thou hast seen now four-score years and m[-]re,
   Filled up in honor and in usefulness.
And God has blessed thy basket, and thy stere,
   And multiplied thy days of happiness.
Thine is a noble mission here below—
   To succor the distressed and feed the poor,
To comfort those whose lives are fraught with woe,
   And help them in their trials to endure.
Toil on! faint not! nor weary of the strife,
   Thy days are bright with mem’ry of good deeds;
And in the evening of thy precious life,
   Still minister to others in their needs.
So shalt thou lay thy treasures up in heav’n,
   An earnest of the life that is to be;
And through the revelations God has giv’n,
   We comprehend in that eternity,
Where we shall meet our loved ones gone before,
   There’s no more parting, no more doubts and fears;
And when we pass to that eternal shore,
   We’ll cast aside the burden of our years.
Renew’d in spirit, then, and freed from ill,
   With all the faithfnl ones who’ve gone before,
Thou wilt be laboring in thy mission still,
   And so progressing onward evermore.
		EMILE.
[Signature cut off by page's edge]


THOUGHTS OF THE POETS.

	 BY HANNAH T. KING. 

	Crabbe - I have not much to say about
him. But he was esteemed by Burke, and
from his first interview with that generous
man his prosperity dates. I leave him in
good hands when I leave him with Burke,
and pass to Shelly. Had his rich, rare and
beautiful mind been anchored on "the rock
of ages" - could have been a disciple of
the Divine Founder of universal love and
charity, which he made the basis of his
teachings - then indeed would he have been
a planet in the poetical hemisphere - but
alas! he worshipped an ignus fatuus of his
own loving and beautiful mind, which re-
sembled a goodly vessel tossed on the rough
waves of a tempestuous ocean without chart
or compass, and so was wrecked - I will not
say lost - for his life was one search after
truth and love, and such shall find, though
the road they stumble over is dark and
thorny. His tragedy of "The Cenci" has
been highly applauded for the tact and re-
finement with which he treated so horrible
a subject.
	A celebrated authority has said, "When I
beheld the passive calmness of Beatrice in
the "Barberini Palace," it seemed the paint-
er had explained the ideal of his story.
But the Poet Shelly has surrounded it with
an interest surpassing the "Limner's Art,"
and the tragedy should be read with the
picture in view. He advocated a dietectic
reform from a strange conviction that absti-
nence from spirituous liquors and animal
food, would do much to renovate the human
race. Upon this idea his own habits were
based - he could not believe in the Christi-
anity of the day, and hence much of his
young life was poisoned by the cruelest per-
secution - he ever carried a pocket Bible,
about his person. He was drowned with a
friend in a squall off the Gulf of Spezzia -
and a Bible was found in his pocket. The
bodies were afterwards burned according to
Shelly's request to his friend Byron to see
that it was done, should he be the survivor.
	Leigh Hunt - Association with its thou-
sand whisperings, hang around this poet,
consequently he is a favorite. Who that has
sipped from his "Jar of Honey, from Mount
Hybla" can ever forget him? His father was
descended from a line of West India gen-
tlemen, and his mother from a Pennsyl-
vania Quaker; both his parents were in-
tellectually disposed, and his mother was
partly won by her lover's fine readings of
the English Poets, which the son truly de-
scribes as a "noble kind of courtship." His
parents were poor and his early days were
passed in family embarrasments. His
mother was a lover of books and nature, and
she encouraged her son's poetic and literary
tendency; she treasured his early rhymes,
and carried them about her person, showing
them to her friends. What an influence
this must have had on the young poet's
early life, in confirming his devotion to
truth, his love of beauty, his superiority to
the world's idols! The discerning heart of
the mother applauded the juvenile efforts of
the son, and fostered by her approving love
that germ which coldness and apathy have
so often destroyed. One word of scorn
from revered lips has a weight and a power
that has colored many an after life, and
turned into darkness the clear and beautiful
stream of the soul! Let mothers note this
and apply it! The habit of thinking for him-
self was a blessing he inherited from his par-
ents. He and his brother were the joint
proprietors of the "Examiner" and were
prosecuted for a libel on the Prince Regent.
They would not allow their friends to pay
the fine adjudged, and therefore they went
to prison. He was in poor health at the
time, but he managed to fit up his room
charmingly, arrange a garden, read and
make verses, and receive visits from his
friends. One might almost envy him when
we think of the rare spirits that brightened
his confinement and brought a glorious free-
dom to his better nature. At the close of
one of his letters to Byron after his release,
he reverts to the kind surprise he and
others gave him, and closes by saying: -

	"- - that frank surprise when Moore and you
	Came to my cage like warblers, kind and true,
	And told me with your arts of cordial lying
	How well I looked, although you thought me dying."

His ablest production is "Rimini," and
through all his writings he exhibits a liberal
and candid mind and heart. His influence
is genial and always refreshing.
	Byron. - Three thousand copies of Byron's
poems are sold annually. "My dear sir,”
said Dr. Johnson, "clear your mind of cant."
This process is essential to a right appreci-
ation of Byron. No one ever more com-
pletely "wore his heart upon his sleeve,"
and no heart was ever more thoroughly
pecked at by the daws. The same frank-
ness and freedom that marked his life, are
evident in his productions, and those who
whine about the danger in reading Byron,
I should fear to trust amid the moral expos-
ure of their surroundings. There can scarce-
ly be found a book more melancholy, and
more moral then "Moore's Life of Byron."
There we see the struggle of a gifted spirit,
between good and evil.
	There are many minute strings that form
the chords of a beautiful instrument, and
all these must be drawn only to a proper
tension, to render the whole harmonious.
Byron was one of those finely organized
beings, possessing all the material for form-
ing one of the best, and noblest of human
characters. But alas! he fell into the hands
of a weak, ignorant, superstitutious mother,
without any one to counter-balance her in-
judicious influence - who one moment
would effeminate him with her foolish fond-
ness and the next, spurn him as "a lame
brat." These small but cruel words must
have sunk deep into such a soul as he pos-
sessed, even as a child; indeed, they are
said to have produced, years after, that
powerful drama, "The Deformed Trans-
formed." And did she not, by such passion-
ate treatment, lay the foundation of the bit-
terness displayed occasionally in his after
life and writings? Yes, upon such an exquis-
itely sensitive temperament they were suffi-
cient to convert the very springs of life into
the “waters of Marah," what might he not
have been, had he fallen into the atmosphere
of an enlightened, affectionate but decided
character, one who would not have attempt-
ed to crush his volcanic nature, but have
taught him to hold in his impetuous pas-
sions with the reins of reason and religion.
With such a heart as he is allowed, by all
who knew him to have possessed in child-
hood and youth, so warm, so generous, so
expansive and so exquisitely devotional,
would he not in judicious hands, have be-
come a happy man? noble in nature as in
birth? Yet with all the material for hap-
piness he never attained it; and I believe
from improper training, early perversion,
etcetera. Had it been otherwise, England
would have hailed him as one of her no-
blest sons as he stands today one of her
noblest poets; one of her brightest patriots,
one of her principal men, and a man of
principle. But let him be judged from his
own works righteously, take his "Childe
Harold," open the book promiscuously, and
out of that let the verdict be given. Words
are vain things often in such a case. 3,000
copies sold annually, tell the tale. "Man
sees the deed, God the circumstance.
Judge not that ye be not judged."


NEITHER days nor lives can be made holy
by doing nothing in them. The best prayer
at the beginning of a day is, that we may
not lose its moments; and the best grace
before meat is, the consciousness that we
have justly earned our dinner.—Ruskin.


26		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

BOX ELDER STAKE.

	The Third Quarterly Conference of the
Y. L. M. I. Association was held in Brig-
ham City, June 11, 1879. The Conference
convened at 10 a. m. Opened as usual.
Supt. Minnie J. Snow being unable to at-
tend, Pres. H. A. Snow presided. The
minutes of the last Conference, together
with the Statistical and Financial report,
were read by the Secretary.
	The various organizations were reported,
excepting Malad City and Portage. After
the closing exercises Conference adjourned
until August 10, 1879.
	The following is a condensed report of
nine of the organizations in this Stake of
Zion. Statistical: Members, 471; Meetings,
54; Average attendance, 240. Financial:
Receipts, cash and property, $195 50;
Wheat, 14 ½ bu.; Public buildings, $12 60;
Logan Temple, $8 50; B. C. Tabernacle,
$90 50; Sundries 3 90. Remaining in Treas-
ury, a nd cash [-] property, $102 88.
	The Conference was well attended; a
good spirit and general determination for
improvement prevailed.
ARMEDA S. YOUNG, Cor. Sec'y.

MORGAN STAKE.

	The Third Quarterly Conference of the
Morgan Stake Relief Society convened at
Morgan City on the 24th of April, 1879, at
10 a. m., Pres. Lydia Rich presiding.
There were present of the presiding priest-
hood of the Stake, Pres. Willard G. Smith
and Counselors Richard Fry and Samuel
Francis; also a good representation of the
presiding priesthood of the various wards.
The nine societies of the Stake were all
represented by their Presidents, or other
officers, as being in good condition spirit-
ually and temporally, there being an in-
creasing interest manifested among the
sisters in attending to their meetings and
other duties. The grasshoppers are very
numerous here this season and threaten to
destroy our crops, which makes the sisters
feel to engage as much as possible in va-
rious pursuits of home industry, thus econo-
mizing what they have and making many
of the things they need. They also feel
much interested in the spiritual work of
the Lord. There were many faithful testi-
monies borne to the truth of the Latter-day
work in which we are engaged, by the sis-
ters who spoke, and the Spirit of the Lord
was with us. The subjects mostly dwelt
upon were Co-operation, Home Industries,
United Order, Faith, Charity, our duties
one toward the other, and the principle of
Celestial Marriage.
	Our brethren present gave us much valu-
able instruction concerning our duties and
positions. They also made many strength-
ening and encouraging remarks which were
highly appreciated by us.
	Our Statistical and Financial report is as
follows for the quarter ending April 10,
1879:
	Statistical: Teachers, 39; members, 214;
officers and members, 253; meetings held
last quarter, 58; average attendance, 114;
WOMAN'S EXPONENT taken, 32.
	Financial: On hand January 10, 1879,
in cash, $62 45; in property, $1,048 64;
wheat, 592 bu., 53 lb. Receipts last quarter,
cash, $32 91; property, 65 22; wheat,
28 bu. 24 lb. Disbursements: To the poor,
in cash and property, $43 85; Temple,
$17 25; home industries, $17 64; books,
$6 26; missionaries, $7 40; building $94 40.

[Column 2]
On hand April 10, 1879, cash, $77 70;
property, $1,054 26; wheat, 621 bu. 17lb.
						LYDIA RICH, Pres't.
						H. C. SMITH, Sec'y.

	Annual report of the Mt. Pleasant Relief
Society, from May 11, 1878, to May 11,
1879: Donations for poor, $174 56; dis-
bursements to the poor, $169; donations to
Welsh emigration, $20; to the European
mission, $30; in the Treasury, sundry arti-
cles for poor, $21 70; cash, $5 40; stock in
Co-op institutions, $50 73; total, $691 59.
Wheat stored away, 419 bu., 14lb.
	The sisters here are very willing, and I
feel to encourage them; and may God bless
them and give them a double portion of
His Holy Spirit, that they may gain wis-
dom, knowledge and understanding to as-
sist them in the performance of so great
and so glorious a cause.
	It is truly gratifying to be able to give a
good report of our young ladies; they are
really taking a lively interest in their
meetings, and by their energy and perse-
verance are accomplishing much good, and
the more they exercise the ability God
has given them the better they will be
able to convey their thoughts to each other,
and by prayerfulness and humility their
understandings will become enlarged, so
that they can more fully comprehend the
great and important work that is before
them:
	We also have a meeting every Thursday
for the juveniles, who appear to be quite
elated at the prospect of soon being organ-
ized into an Association of their own. May
God bless the dear children and all those
who take an interest in trying to encourage
them and do them good.
	Our agent for the Silk Association is tak-
ing quite an interest in her labors, and in-
tends, by energy and perseverance to make
it a success.
	May our Heavenly Father bless us in our
labors of love in which we are engaged,
that it may be like bread cast upon the wa-
ters—be found after many days—is the
prayer of your sister in the New and Ever-
lasting Covenant,
	MARGARET F. C. MORRISON, Pres't,
	R. LOUISA HASLER, Sec'y.


FOR HUSBANDS.

	Don't think when you have won a wife
that you have won a slave also.
	Don't think that your wife has less feel-
ing than your sweetheart. Her relation to
you is simply changed, not her nature.
	Don't think that you can dispense with
all the little civilities of life toward her on
marrying. She appreciates those things
quite as much as other women.
	Don't be rude and gruff at home. Had
you been that sort of a fellow before mar-
riage, the probabilities are that you would
have been sewing on your own buttons
still.
	Don't make your wife think she is an
incumbrance on you by giving grudgingly.
What she needs, give cheerfully, as if it
were a pleasure to do so.
	Don't meddle with the affairs of the
house under her charge. You have no
more right to be poking your nose into the
kitchen than she has to walk into your place
of business and give directions to your em-
ployees.
	Don't find fault with her extravagance
in ribbons, etc., until you have shut down
on cigars, tobacco, whiskey, etc.
	Don't leave your wife at home to nurse


the children, to w[--]tg ani to oomy,, while
you bolt down on a score fc en to see the
show or spend a dollar on billiards.
	Don't think that board and clothes is a
sufficient return for all a wife does for you.
—Ex.


THE TRUE WIFE.

	Oftentimes I have seen a tall ship glide by
against the tide as if drawn by an invisible
tow line with a hundred strong arms pulling
it. Her sails unfurled, her streamers droop-
ing, she had neither side wheel nor stern
wheel; still she moved on stately in serene
triumph, as with her own life. But I knew
that on the other side of the ship, hidden
beneath the great bulk that swam so majes-
tically, there was a little toilsome steam tug,
with a heart of fire and arms of iron, that
was tugging it bravely on; and I knew that
if the little steam tug untwined her arms
and left the ship, it would wallow and roll
away and drift hither and thither, and go off
with the effluent tide, no man knows where.
and so I have known more than one genius
high-deck, fullfreighted, wide-sailed, gay
penoned, but for the bare toiling arm and
brave warm beating heart of the faithful lit-
tle wife that nestled close to him so that no
wind nor wave could part them. he would
have gone down with the stream and been
heard of no more—Oliver Wendell [-] Holmes


WOMAN'S INDUSTRIES AT THE
			        STATE FAIR.

	Man's industries and the labor problem
have in all times past engaged the minds of
men, and men have formed themselves into
societies and organizations for the purpose of
concentrating their efforts and thereby crea-
ting a stimulus for mutual improvement and
benefit. And to-day many of the ablest men
of the country are leading these organiza-
tion and are publicly discussing the various
topics of men's industries. But the indus-
tires of women are too frequently overlooked
as a matter apparently of little or no conse-
quence, and she has thus far received but lit-
tle encouragement in this direction from the
public. This neglect of her work has called
forth the organization known as the "Wom-
an's Department" of our State agricultural
fair, which was one of the main features of
attraction at the fair of last year. Mrs. Mary
E. Haggart, of this city, who was one of the
principal movers in organizing this depart-
ment, and who is now president of the asso-
ciation, has been induced to prepare an ad-
dress upon the subject of woman's industries,
which she is ready to deliver at the coming
county and State fair. She is fully indorsed
by the State Agricultural and Horticultural
Societies' and we also take pleasure in ad-
ding that she is a lady of fine scholarly attain-
ments, and is an earnest worker in all reform
movements, eminently practical in her views,
and in her lectures always handles the sub-
ject chosen with marked ability, and as an
orator she has few superiors. Her services
can be engaged for a very moderate consider-
ation. - Indiana Furmer, June 25th.


IN Boston the woman suffrage advocates
are holding parlor' "meetings’' or “conver?;
sations,” which they invito their friends
who are opposed to the measure, and by this
means many converts are. made who could
not be reached otherwise'.-"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		27


[For the EXPONENT.
THE DAUGHTER OF ZION.

The daughter of Zion is chasten’d, 
	Her sons are brought low in the dust— 
The Lord will confound her oppressor,
	And avenge her deep wrongs, for he must.
We trust in His arm of salvation,
	We bow to His will every day;
Will he leave us to perish unnoticed?
	Ey’ry power of our being says, Nay.

Nay, nay! we believe that out Father
	Has knowledge rnorp perfect than they;
Nay, nay! we believe that our Father
	Can match with the wisest each day.
We've honor'd and bow’d to His mandate,
	Forsaken our countries, our homes;
And stricken we wait for His coming,
	And hunted as lion that roams.

Crowd not the strong limb to the wall,
	it may reach you, 'though guarded and strong;
Despair his a weapon in nature—
	Chafe not the proud lion too long.

We always sustain our file-leaders,
	Always cling to the iron rod;
Are willing to work for Christ’s kingdom,
	Our holy religion, our God.

The more that they work, against Zion,
	The more will her glory appear;
The more that they seek to oppress her,
	The sooner redemption is here.

The key of knowledge now is turn'd,
That for which our hearts have burn'd.—
Not to us, but to the Father,
And His holy Son forever, 
Do the glory aud the power, 
For tbp triumph of the hour.
									A. Q.
7th Ward, S. L. City, May, 1879.


AFTER LONG YEARS.

LETTER	VIII.

On the banks of a murm'ring, limpid stream,
Away in the shade of a hemlock grove,
In midsummer time I would sit and dream
Of the future bright, with its wealth of love.

	And such is life’s “young dream,” often
from which comes the sad awakening to a
sense of the dismal, the dreary, the weary
cares, vexations and trials of every day
life. And yet how much the sunshine of
these happy hours cheers, stimulates and
strengthens one in life's battles. The child-
life made happy by love and attention of
dear friends and affectionate parents is
equivalent to fairy land; for does not some
good angel hover near to soothe all the woes
of children? Yes; the mother, the elder
sister, the aunt, these good, true friends
who are all kindness, and who only require
obedience in return for all their loving care.
How easy is the obedience of love; how
gracefully does love adapt itself to duty.
It is the pleasant phase of life almost inva-
riably that presents itself to the young, and
children are apt to think that it is an easy
matter as they grow older to make their
pathway upward and onward without much
difficulty; but they find as years roll on that
there are various experiences that call forth
all the reserved forces of their nature to keep
them from being overcome, or bowed down
under an accumulation of difficulties, or
even perhaps misfortunes. 
	For these emergencies they should culti-
vate in early life a vast amount of courage;
never let any little disappointment daunt
you, if you know you are in the right. Ap-
ply yourself vigorously to whatever you
undertake, and if the task is hard, summon
all your strength, whether it be mental, or
physical, or both, and you will be happier,
even if the struggle be a hard one, than if
you yield to the first difficulty in your way.
To girls or boys this lesson will apply; but
to girls especially I would say, do not give
up too easily when you have wisely and by
the advice of friends marked out a course
to pursue. If you do you will regret it
afterwards, and will never feel that satis-
faction which comes from the fulfillment of
a fixed purpose; for be sure, whatever your
future lot may be, whatever rank, or posi-
tion, you may occupy, you will be the bet-
ter qualified and fortified by discipline in
some regular pursuit.
	I know that in many families there is
much home work that requires girls’ atten-
tion, and they grow weary of what they
term drudgery, and become impatient and.
restless, and mothers are very apt to think
that pleasure is the only reactive agent, and
consequently they allow them to go to
the other extreme, which is quite as de-
pressing and more injurious to health and
activity of mind. Do not live for pleasure
alone. Have an object, and let it be a real
one; one that will call out all your dormant
energies, and one in which you can engage
with real enthusiasm, because of your love
for it; but if it is not possible to attain to
the pursuit you desire now, prepare your-
self by self-culture and thorough self-train-
ing, so that when the time comes that you
can take hold of the work you are most, or
best adapted to, you will do it understand-
ingly. It is said “Where there is a will
there is a way,” and history and observa-
tion teach us that whoever (man or woman)
has risen to any degree of eminence, has
had many hindrances, been met with oppo-
sition, and labored under an accumulation
of difficulties, ere they succeeded. Do not
despair because you are not encouraged;
that is the shoal on which many are
wrecked who start out with every breeze
propitious; difficulty comes along and they
feel the need of a helping hand. They are
met with coolness perchance, or some less
ambitious, or envious person, not compre-
hending them, attributes selfish motives
and disheartens them; or, it may be careless
indifference on the part of those who look
on, having no sympathy in that direction;
and ofttimes those who start out bravely
shrink back because they are not equal to
the emergencies they must necessarily en-
counter, and thus they grow dissatisfied
with themselves and make life a failure,
instead of a blessing and a help. It often
requires long years of toil and patient in-
dustry to gain the goal of our hopes, and
even then many die without having scarce
a foretaste of the blessing for which they
have faithfully labored; but yet there is
much that is pleasant in anticipation, and
when we can cast aside the gloomy pictures
which hang all around life’s pathway, and
pierce with the eye of faith into the dis-
tant horizon and see oven a faint glimmer
of a rosy dawn, where all we have striven
to attain here shall be given to the faithful
worker, it gives fresh courage and renews
hope in our bosoms.
	To all who live useful lives, wko seek to
bless and elevate their fellow beings, who
make duty their companion, there comes
after years of toil and endurance an abid-
ing peace, a sweet, restful feeling of calm-
ness, which compensates in a great measure
for all the long years of labor in the great
workshop of life.
	None need regret any trial they have
passed safely, for it is so much in the stock
of experience that will endure, and stand
as a waymark in the mind, reminding us of
the victory gained over self in the conflict
that proved our integrity to truth and righ-
teousness.
AUNT EM.
E.B. Wells


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Rev. Olyimpia Brown, pastor of the Univ-
ersalist Church at Racine, Wisconsin, has
recieved a well deserved expression of confi-
dence. at a recent meeting of the whole
congregation a unanimous vote was passed
expressing gratitude for the manner in
which she has performed her duties and ac-
knowledging that their present prosperity is
largely due to her unselfish devotion to the
cause of truth, her assiduous labors as pastor
and her preminent ability as a preacher."
Mrs. Brown took charge of this society about
a year ago, when its affairs were at a low ebb.

	WOMAN'S Rights is being discussed at
College-Commencements. Young graduates
make it the subject of essays, and men of
learning and oratory make it the subject of
addresses on public occasions. Surely it is
one of THE important questions of the day.
From the "Woman's Journal" we copy the
following extract from a speeeh delivered
by Mr. Joseph Sheldon of New Haven:

	"The position of women as the earners of
wages must be more just when they can by
the ballot even indirectly express their in-
dignant opinion on the conduct of those
who treat them unjustly—who drive hard
bargains against their necessities; who tol-
erate unequal laws against them; who rob
their homes of money and souls, in spite of
prayers, with the allurements of drink and
the seductions of vice; who make tyrants
and imbeciles of those who should be their
strong stay and support, their affection and
their pride—and all this while the state rots
for the need of the very virtue and con-
science and intelligence it now throws
away; and for need of the authoritative
statement and condemnation by the ballots
of women of a flood of ignorance and ruin
in all their miserable and immeasurable de-
tails.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	When Lucy Stone with eager and de-
vouring eyes first looked out upon her
young life, and with unutterable dismay
found herself stifled by belittling and con-
temptuous surroundings, that shut up every
woman by positive law in a legal category
with idiots, lunatics and criminals; that
made even marriage on its legal side equiv-
alent for her to a conviction of felony, she
too was asked by society, the State and the
Church: What are you going to do about
it? Little enough, God knows, has yet
been done, but from that hour into every
woman's life has begun to dawn the broad,
cheery morning of an absolute equality
with man before the law—a morning that
shall yet be tuneful with bird notes and
balmy with the breath of flowers and speak-
ing with electric fulness of life. Then be-
gan a more worthy recognition and respect
for her individuality, her substance of
character and her power, the opening to
her with plaudits and thanksgiving of every
avenue of employment for her ceaseless
activities, her immortal aspirations, her
inextinguishable hopes, her tireless con-
scientious charities. Conversation and the
arts of life, society and literature, the aims
and the politics of governments shall yet
become larger and purer and nobler in her
inspiring presence. For her it shall mean
new vigor, a higher and brighter attract-
iveness:

The stars of midnight shall be dear
To her, she shall lean an ear
In many a secret place
Where violets dance their wayward round,
And Beauty born of murmuring sound
Shall pass into her face."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
	Published semi-monthyl, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
		Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1879.


STRAY NOTES,
One cannot always hit a happy thought just
at a particular moment. No, one cannot al-
ways have a clear head to write and reason on
a definite subject. Cobwebs will make their
appearance, however careful, neat and precise
housekeepers may be,for they cannot constantly
have a broom in their hands. Women are not
fairies, although they ought to be to keep cob-
webs out of their brain. Mother Goose tells of
a little old woman who carried a broom to
sweep the cobwebs out of the sky, but unfor-
tuuately we women have not the power to re-
move those much nearer, which dim the vision
and make things look askew, or perhaps things
are a little out of place.
 Granted that women are not as wise as they
ought to be, what then? Shall they sit down
at home and wait for their husbands to come
and teach them? If they do, many of them
would go ignorant to their graves of what was
going on in the great, busy world around them.
It seems to us it is time to wake up and brush
away the cobwebs that are far more injurious
than those that hang around the kitchen and
garret. Not but that we believe in cleanliness,
but every housekeeper has a general renovat-
ing time twice a year at least, yet many a poor
woman goes on from year to year and pays very
little attention to the cobwebs that muddle and
confuse her brain. And if perchance some
half-defined thought finds expression as to the
state of things outside her own domestic circle,
and she questions why this or that is so, she is
sure to be told by some good friend,that women
have nothing to do with these things, they’ll
right themselves after a while, or men who
understand law, politics and government will
attend to all wrongs, and if they cannot it’s no
use for women to try.
Certainly not, unless they acquaint them-
selves with the subject; but who gets the blame
when society is outraged by some overt act?
Women in almost every instance. Then should
they not understand why? Is it not necessary
that woman should find some method of im-
provement, that she may keep side by side
with her husband? And will any man love
his wife less because she is well informed?
Don’t be afraid of it. Men came practically in
contact with the general questions of the day
and grow familiar with the subject; but wo-
men, shut up in the home-circle with limited
opportunities, allow their faculties to lie dor-
mant, or only to emit a sparkle now and then,
at which they themselves are almost frightened,
it seems so unusual to have a thought beyond
what they had been taught was woman’s
sphere.
It has come to pass within the last forty
years that a few women, comparatively, have
marked cut a broader field in which to labor,
taking hold of the work in earnest and with
a heroism and faith corresponding to the no-
bility of the cause they espoused; and slowly
but surely one obstacle after another has been
removed, until woman stands to day on a
higher platform than ever before in the world's
history, with a better knowledge of herself,
the object of her creation and her future des-
tiny.
Woman suffragists in the world date the be-
ginning of the new era for them to the first
Convention ever held, now thirty-one years
ago in May, 1838, when the dignified and amia-
ble Lucretia Mott, the sweet Quaker lady, ex-
pressed in a very modest manner her views
upon the subject, and Mrs. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton (now widely celebrated for her orato-
ry) made her debut upon the public platform
in a few impressive words. The women of the
Latter-day Saints date the period of a new
movement for the higher elevation of woman
still farther back. A few of the sisters being
impressed that woman's position was not fully
comprehended, made known their feelings to
the Prophet Joseph Smith, who responded to
their wishes and desires by telling them that
whenever the Church of Jesus Christ was fully
organized upon the earth there would be the
organization of societies of women. Accord-
ingly, a few of the sisters met and an associa-
tion was formed, called the Relief Society.
Upon this Society Joseph Smith pronounced
great and mighty blessings, many of which
have been already fulfilled. he told the sis-
ters they should have great faith to administer
to the sick, and to do good in many ways. The
ladies themselves did not realize the signifi-
cance and importance of the movement at that
time, but it gradually developed itself. The
advancement of women through the spiritual
and practical education obtained through this
channel has indeed been wonderfu1; socially
and politically, these Societies have been a
blessing to the sisters.
It would seem perhaps ridiculous to some
people to say that had it not been for this kind
of practical helpfulness of the women of this
Territory, they never would have had the bal-
lot, yet so we believe; certainly they would
not have been so well qualified to step forward
and exercise the privilege it gives them.
Wilh all the opportunities now afforded, and
the advantages now offered to woman for fuller
development, a wider range of action as well as
thought, it is strange indeed that so many care
little for it; but prefer to go on in the same old
treadmill, and although they are standing on
the very threshold of great events, progression
making rapid strides around them, prefer to
leave all questions of importance to men. If
one talks to them on the subject, “Oh, I’ve no
time; its very much against my nature; I
don’t want the ballot, I can’t bear to hear wo-
men speak in public,” and a thousand other
very silly things. But there is one subject that
belongs to every woman, and on which women
ought to be prepared to speak and act, and that
is education; aud they need the ballot for this,
if they would make woman’s place as a teacher
and educator what it should be in every re-
spect.
Would the women of Massachusetts and
New Hampshire ever have obtained the right
now accorded them if they had not exerted
themselves, and maintained their ground by
the expression of positive opinions and facts
in public places? If they had not had among
them such heroic and undaunted public speak-
ers as Lucy Stone, Julia Ward Howe and others
whom we have not space to name.
But there are not enough yet of this class of
women, who are fearless of ridicule, and ready
to take up the heavy burdens of others that
they may lead them to a higher range of
thought, by arousing their dormant energies
and showing them their help is needed not
only in the home circle, but in all the depart-
ments of life. Yes, all.
The need of women lecturers and speakers is
not only necessary in the world, but they are
needed here. How many women have had
their lives brightened, their perceptions quick-
ened, their dormant faculties aroused, by com-
ing out and joining the different organizations
for the mutual co operation and elevation of
the sisters that exist among this people. Thou-
sands at least. And many more might have
their hearts lighter and their lives brighter, if
they would but join the ranks of those who are
faithfully laboring to lift up woman to her true
position, and make her indeed a helpmeet to 
wards establishing peace and righteousness up-
on the earth.
 The names of many noble women here in
Zion will be held in honor forever for their un-
tiring labors to lift up, comfort and educate
their sisters in the high and holy calling wo-
men should fill in their mission on the earth.
Among those who have been earnest aud dili-
gent in home-missionary labor among the wo-
men and children of the Latter-day Saints we
are proud to record Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young, Mary Isabella
Horne, Margaret T. Smoot, Sarah M. Kimball,
Phebe Woodruff, Elizabeth Howard, Bathshe.
ba W. Smith and there are many others whose
names are illustrious. E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

 MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG and Miss Susa Young 
left this city Tuesday July 1, for a short visit to 
San Francisco and the Sandwich Islands. A
note from Mrs. Z.D. Young, received on the 
10th inst., informs us that they embarked on
board a steamer from San Francisco July 7,
and were in good health and spirits and send
kind love to friends. We wish them a pleasant
and safe voyage, and trust Mrs. Young's health
will improve during her journey. The breth-
ren and sisters of the mission on the Sandwich 
Islands will no doubt give them a hearty wel-
come.
	SISTERS ELIZA R. Snow, M. Isabella Horne,
Sarah M. Kimball and Sarepta M. Heywood
left this city on the morning train Monday,
July 7, enroute for Bear Lake valley and Soda
Springs. They will visit settlements upon the
route and hold meetings, and wherever it is
practicable organize Primary Associations.
They expect to be in Paris at the Stake Con-
ference on the 16th and 17th of this month,
when it is expected a presidency of the Relief
Society and Y. L.M.I.A of that Stake of
Zion will be chosen. These sisters will be ab-
sent some weeks and intend to visit as many 
settlements as possible.
	A LITTLE book entitled "The Deseret Sun-
day School Reader," is before us. It has been
arranged with great care by a committe of the
Sunday School Union, and published at the
office of the "Juvenile Instructor." It con-
tains several woodcuts, including the Nauvoo
Temple. The lessons in poetry and prose are 
easy, the words short and simple. it is en-
tirely homemade, all the articles for the book 
furnished by well-known writers. It will sup-
ply a want long felt for a work of this kind,
and is deserving  the partronage of the Saints
in all parts of the Territory. This is the first
of a series of books which we trust will ere
long be produced at home for the benefit of the
children.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		29


A REVIEW.—In a former number of the Ex-
PONENT we made a brief notice of "A Review
of the Decision of the Supreme Court" by
Hon. George Q. Cannon, the people’s delegate
from Utah in the Congress of the United
States. It is a small work, containing between
fifty and sixty pages, but its contents are well
worth perusal by men and women. The au-
thor has evidently taken great care in arrang-
ing his material so as to present strong points
to his readers on the subject of law and relig-
ion. The book is for sale at the “Deseret
News” and “Juvenile Instructor” Offices. We
earnestly recommend its careful reading to our
sisters as well as the brethren. It is also a good
book to send abroad to friends, or acquaintances,
and will no doubt remove from the minds of
many honest-hearted people the popular opin-
ion that Patriarchal Marriage is bigamy. The
author, towards the close, has drawn a vivid
picture of what Utah was previous to the in-
flux of the elements of so-called civilization in
her midst. Of this those of us who know can
testify, and we know that he has spoken truly.
We would recommend our sisters who are
desirous of becoming intelligent in regard to
the rights of citizens and the strength of gov-
ernments to procure this excellent book and
make themselvs familiar with its reasoning.
They will then become convinced how incon-
sistent with the spirit of the Constitution is
the late decision of the Supreme Court.


[Column 1]
ARTICLES

SUBSCRIBED TO AND ADOPTED BY THE
YOUNG LADIES' DEPARTMENT OF THE
CO-OPERATIVE RETRENCHMET ASSOCIA-
TION, ORGANIZED IN S. L, CITY, 1869.

	Resolved, That realizing ourselves to be
wives and daughters of apostles, prophets and
elders of Israel, and, as such, that high re-
sponsibilities rest upon us, and that we shall
be held-accountable to God not only for the
privileges we inherit from our fathers, but also
for the blessings we enjoy as Latter-day Saints,
we feel to unite and co-operate with, and we
do mutually pledge ourselves that we will up-
hold and sustain each other in doing good.
	Resolved, That inasmuch as the Saints have
been commanded to gather out from Babylon,
and not partake of her sins, that they receive
not of her plagues. We feel that we should
not condescend to imitate the pride, folly and
fashions of the world: And inasmuch as the
Church of Jesus Christ is likened to a city set
on a hill, to be a be[-]con of light to all nations,
it is our duty to set examples for others, in-
stead of seeking to pattern after them.
	Resolved, That we will respect ancient and
modern apostolic instructions. St. Paul ex-
horted Timothy to teach the women to adorn
themselves in modest apparel—not with braid-
ed hair, or gold, or pearl, or costly array; but
which becometh women professing godliness,
with good works Peter also, in his First Epis-
tle, in speaking of women, says: "Whose
adorning, let it not be that outward adorning
of plaiting the hair, and of wearing gold, or of
putting on of apparel; but let it be the hidden
man of the heart, in that which is not cor-
ruptible, even the ornament of a meek and
quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of
great price. For after this manner in old time
the holy women also, who trusted in God,
adorned themselves," &c. In a revelation
given to the Saints in 1831, the Lord said:
"Thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all
thy garments be plain, and their beauty the
beauty of the work of thine own hands." All

[Column 2]
of which we accept as true principle, and such
as should be folly illustrated in our practice.
	Resolved, With a firm and settled determi-
nation to honor the foregoing requirements,
and being deeply sensible of the sinful ambi-
tion and vanity in dress among the daughters
of Zion, which are calculated to foster the pride
of the world, and shut out the Spirit of God
from the heart, we mutually agree to exert our
influence, both by precept and example, to
suppress and to eventually eradicate these
evils.
	Resolved, That, admitting variety has its
charms, we know that real beauty appears to
greater advantage in a plain dress than when
bedizzened with finery, and while we disappro-
bate extravagance and waste, we would not,
like the Quakers, recommend a uniform, but
would, leave each one to choose the style best
adapted to her own taste and person. At the
same time we shall avoid and ignore obso-
lete with us, all extremes which are opposed to
good sense, or repulsive to modesty.
	Resolved, Inasmuch as cleanliness is a char-
acteristic of a Saint, and an imperative duty,
we shall discard the dragging skirts, and for
decency's sake those disgustingly short ones
extending no lower than the boot tops. We
also regard “panniers,” and whatever approxi-
mates in appearance towards the “Grecian
Bend,” a burlesque on the natural beauty and
dignity of the human female form, and will
not disgrace our persons by wearing them.
And also, as fast as it shall be expedient, we
shall adopt the wearing of home-made articles,
and exercise our united influence in rendering
them fashionable.


THE HOSPITAL.

	All good projects move slowly though surely,
and so we hope it is the case with the hospital
cause. Our beloved Prophet, Joseph Smith,
once said, "Be sure you are right, and then go
ahead." That this "is a move in the right di-
rection" is the emphatically expressed opinion
of all within our hearing. Times are hard,
but paradoxically the people seem to flourish
best during hard times. Volcanoes burst and
shock the people, and they stand still for an
instant, but as no corner-stone of the kingdom
of God is gold, all good purposes will still
steadily move forward. Good Samaritans for-
get not the hospital, but talk it up in all your
societies, and if any have a good suggestion to
offer, give it, for "in counsel there is much
wisdom." This can be no personal or financial
affair wherein a few gather in the "filthy lu-
cre," but on the other hand, whoever has
charge of it will go unpaid until the day of
the Millennium comes, when the assurance of
having done well will weigh heavier in the
scale of justice than gold. It is not exagger-
ating to say, as all even of small experience
can testify, that hospital work is a thankless
task, even where considerable benefit has been
received; perfect restoration to life and vigor
being demanded, when it is not in the power
of man to bestow; yet, nevertheless, the aggre-
gate good is so great that the minor evils are
lost sight of. The plan of the work is not fully
ripened, though far on the way, and more on
the subject will soon appear.
	S. L. City, July 10, 1879.		R. B. P.


CORRESPONDENCE.

			SAN FRANCISCO, July 1, 187[-].

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	As I have been a subscriber to your interest-
ing paper for some time, and as I have never


seen anything from this far-famed Golden
State of California, I thought a few lines
might not be uninteresting.
	It is a lovely Sabbath, as all Sabbaths are as
far as a rich, warm sunshine and balmy air are
concerned, but there is nothing to remind one
this is a day of rest. The streets are full of
people intent upon pleasure. The bands are
discoursing lively strains of music, and moth-
ers, fathers and children, with their lunch bas-
kets, are going to some one of the many pleas-
ant places to enjoy themselves. The ballrooms
are crowded and the churches are empty. The
small streets are full of children, left to amuse
themselves as best they can. In yon alley is
a crowd of small hoodlums drinking beer,
smoking and swearing. How can they learn
better when the ones who should teach them
are engrossed with the same pleasures, but of
a more genteel character.
	What a strange feeling one finds here in this
great city. The impression at once arises,
everybody must be bad, so much crime and
dishonor. The daily papers are enough to
sicken one's soul, but the people crave just such
news and they must cater to the public taste.
There was one of the most brutal murders last
week. A man courted and married a very
gifted and accomplished young lady, and in
less than a year they separated and she sought
shelter with a family as a housekeeper. The
husband sought her and found her, and [-]e shot
her dead in the door, and had the cool effront-
ery to tell the officer that the woman was his;
he had a right to shoot her if he wanted to.
And now comes another murder worse even
than that. Some one cut a child's throat and
plunged its head into the sand to stifle its cries.
The child was a boy three years old and be-
longed to an Italian gardener. He has no
enemies, and who murdered the child and for
what purpose remains for the detectives to un-
ravel. Suicides are common, they are scarcely
mentioned.
	You who live in such a quiet vale can never
imagine half that is going on out in the world.
It is said there is a rivalry existing between
Chicago and St. Louis, which can get ahead in
crime or population, but California will carry
the palm of the world. Here we treat all men
as rogues until we prove them, and just as we
think we have proved them good, they prove
themselves rogues. Confidence has fled, and
people are groping in the dark for money and
happiness; a few find the former, and fewer
still find the latter. There is an unjust feeling
pervading all classes of society. In the palace
or in the laboring man's cot there is a want
felt, and it is confidence. It has gone and all
are seeking to find it.
	I hope you will not feel disgusted with the
picture I have drawn; perhaps if I should write
you again it would be all love and sunshine,
but I would have to go beyond the confines of
this great city, into one of the cool, quiet
country glens, then I could commune with
Nature.
	Wishing your paper every success, I remain
			Yours respectfully,
									NELLIE.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, At St. George, Utah, on the 26th day
of June, 1879, at 10 o'clock a. m., in a quiet
and peaceful manner, Adella, daughter of
Charles E. and Ruth Young Johnson, aged 4
months and 5 days. "Not dead, but gone be-
fore."
	Respectfully yours,
		C. E. Johnson.
St. George, June 29, 1879.


30		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
[handwritten in left margin] E. B. Wells 

GOOD MANNERS.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	The cultivation of manners is almost the
last thing considered by many; they regard
no fixed laws, but act according to their
own idea, which quite frequently gives un-
necessary offence to others.
	The manners of a people are an index by
which they are partly judged, and although
it is possible to be a consummate villain and
have charming manners, yet the terms are
not synonymous in the least; but there are
some persons who are almost ready to be-
lieve so, and seem to take pride in rudeness
and rough ways, attributing it to sincerity
and genuineness of soul.
	But in this age of enlightenment and
advantages we should be able to cast aside
such primitive ideas, that can only be the
outgrowth of ignorance, the traditionary
opinion of those who have had no time or
opportunity to cultivate their minds or
manners. The rising generation of this
people should improve in all that will add
to the refinements of social life—and they
have no reasonable excuse for not doing so.

	To many we are aware that the word
etiquette is a bug-bear, because it implies
restraint they think, and they are not will-
ing to submit to any restraint in word, or
action. Every person of ordinary intelli-
gence should desire to observe such rules
as regards manner as would insure the re-
spect and good feeling of those with whom
they come in contact through life, and ren-
der them generally pleasing. There are
only a few who possess sufficient beauty, or
charms of any sort, to make them agree-
ble as companions without cultivation of
manner, but if one's manners are gentle,
respectful, and betray culture, it is in itself
a recommendation in any society; and this
it is always posssble to acquire, and it
should be exacted from children. We all
know how very disagreeble it is to be in
the company of ill-bred and ill-mannered
children. Surely it is worth a little effort
on our part to make etiquette a study, that
we may adapt ourselves to the existing
general rules of society, that the social in-
tercourse of life may be as pleasant and
harmonious as possible. In order to do
this the lessons must begin at home, and
become a part of ourselves, among those
with whom we are most intimately asso-
ciated. There are many people who never
seem to think it necessary to be polite in
their own home, to those who are the near-
est and dearest to them; but especially
should the minds of the young be impressed
with the idea that politeness and good
manners should commence at home, instead
of school-life, dancing, or their entrance
into society.

	There are many books written upon the
subject of etiquette, from which excellent
ideas may be gleaned, but from a recent
work by Mrs. H. O. Ward, entitled "Sensi-
ble Etiquette," we intend making a few
extracts, that the readers of the EXPONENT
everywhere who have not the opportunity
of reading the book, may become familiar
with some of the general rules and observ-
ances of society at the present time.

	Mrs. Ward says: "There is a class of
people who consider it a mark of superiority
to hold themselves in defiance to all rules
of etiquette, who affect to despise it and
take pleasure in outraging it; but it must
be admitted, however well educated in the
matter of books these people may be, how-
ever intelligent in other directions, yet
they are not born among those having fine

[Column 2]
manners, and accustomed to the require-
ments of society, were not reared in high
breeding, and are really ignorant of what
they despise. It would seem to be only in
accordance with the first principles of com-
mon sense that people should acquaint
themselves with the requirements of eti-
quette, and examine their causes, before
they sweep aside what many of the great
intellects of the world have thought it
worth while to approve and accept."
	"There is another class who, not having
been instructed in traditionary, social ob-
servances, laugh at rules they are not fa-
miliar with,—rules, too, which the instincts
of kind hearts ought to divine almost, but
which, out of mere thoughtlessness, are too
often disregardod, even by the kind-
hearted."
	Another writer says, "Obedience to these
social laws is what obedience to law is in
political life, and the obligations which in-
dividuals feel in their observance are said
to be binding in proportion to the fineness
of their sense of honor and the keenness of
their self-respect. Etiquette," says the
same writer, "is the sovereign ruler of so-
cial pleasure; its kingdom comprises not
only manners, but the application of man-
ners to events. The observance of its laws
avoids confusion and maintains decorum,
insuring to each individual due attention
and respect. Its whole intention is to
maintain the dignity of the individual and
the comfort of the community. Whatever
enjoyment of our daily existence we may
have, as far as others are concerned, is pos-
sible only through our obedience to the
laws of that etiquette which governs the
whole machinery, and keeps every cog and
wheel in place and at its own work, which
prevents jostling and carries all things along
to their consummation."
	A journalist says, "Neither the little
burgh nor the great city should know any
difference in the conduct of the individ-
uals comprising its population. Allowing
for the necessary variations in the tenor of
daily life in the two places, there should be
complete union regarding the proprieties;
one code of behavior should cover all, and
a person going from one place to the other
should be utterly undistinguishable by his
conduct from those around him. These
paragraphs contain many truths which we
should all do well to consider, and we may
easily give more attention to this subject
than we have been wont to do, at any rate
the most of us, and it will be to our advan-
tage as a people and to that of our chil-
dren."
	To do a good action is noble in itself, but
to do it in a graceful and pleasing manner
adds very much to it, for we have noticed
quite frequently that some good deeds are
done in such a blundering manner that they
produce very disagreeable feelings with
the recipient of the favor.
	"I have no time to devote to my own
cultivation of mind, or manners," "I have
no time to be polite," say some, when in
reality their time is much of it wasted in
frivolity, in gossip and in the reading of
trash. It is time all these things were cast
aside, and we set about preparing ourselves
and our children for the time when Zion
shall be the wonder of the world, and "our
children be as polished stones," which they
never will be without cultivation, and that
culture must begin in their homes and
emanate from their mothers.
	Everything in ourselves and in our lives
has its effect, and if we were more careful
in our conduct towards our fellow-beings,
more gentle, kind, tender and respectful
it would have a good effect upon all who

[Column 3]
come in contact with us. Little more can
be said on this subject than to point out the
necessity and plead with the yonng who
are entering upon the arena of life to adopt
a course which will hereafter reflect credit
upon them and be a safe one to follow.
	It is a subject, perhaps, less dwelt upon
than any other, each individual leaving it
to his or her neighbor to attend to, or to
the teachers of schools, but it will bear
talking about, thinking about and writing
about, and it will be well to adopt in our
lives such a code of manners as will admit
us to the best society here upon earth, and
prepare us to dwell in the presence of those
who have acquired all knowledge.
	In our next chapter on this subject we
hope to make something more than intro-
ductory remarks. It is an old saying that
the manners make the man, but certainly
the manners of a lady are an important
consideration. How much more enjoyment
might we all have in life, if every one who
moved in society watched constantly
against evil and studied continually im-
provement and culture.


[For the EXPONENT.

RECOLLECTIONS OF AN ARIZONA
COLONIST.

	Since my arrival in Richmond I have
been asked a great many questions about
Arizona and the way we live there, which
I take much pleasure in answering, and I
thought the many readers of the EXPO-
NENT would be pleased to get a few items.
	We started Feb. 7, 1876, with others of
our fellow-colonists, to hunt a home in the
deserts of Arizona. On our journey we en-
countered very severe storms and cold
weather. When I think of that journey I
marvel greatly, and my heart fills with
gratitude to the Most High for His mercy
and kind watchcare over us, that none of
us suffered. After leaving Utah the weath-
er was warmer and our journey more
pleasant, although it was tedious. We
found a great many curiosities, petrified
wood, &c., which lessened the monotony of
the journey, We arrived at Obed the 23d
of April, '76, and found a few of our co-
laborers already there and at work. The
27th of April death visited our little colony
and took Bro. F. Hammond, a most excel-
lent young man.
	We organized ourselves into a company
and endeavored to work in the United Or-
der and eat at one table. And here let me
say, it is my experience that the long table
gives more satisfaction than the common
storehouse and draw supplies. Prest.
Young told us we would find it was the
best, and we have proven his words to be
true.
	The first summer, through inexperience,
many things occurred of an unpleasant na-
ture, and a great many began to sigh for
the comfortable homes of their fathers.
June 3,1876, Prest. Wells and party arrived,
and we received much good advice and
counsel from them, and were greatly en-
couraged and strengthened thereby. Con-
trary to the expectations of many, they ad-
vised us to follow the counsel of nur be-
loved President, Brigham Young, and live
in the family order.
	July 6, some of our party started to Utah
to get their families, and some deserted
their mission and returned home.
	July 19, our dam, which had cost $4,000,
washed out. It was a great loss to us, as
there was no possible chance to get water
to our grain, and we did not raise anything.
	Aug. 7, another large company left us,


leaving only seventeen men in Obed to
battle with the adversities of a desert land,
but union existed among them and they
prospered, and were strong in the conscious-
ness of doing their duty.
	Sept. 16, 1876, I gave birth to my first-
born—twin danghters. The youngest died
immediately.
	Our location proved unhealthy, and in
September, 1877, every member of our set-
tlement took sick with the fever and ague.
The brethren and sisters of the other settle-
ments kindly took us to their homes and
cared for us until we recovered. They also
finished harvesting the little crop that had
this season blessed our labors. We thought
best to abandon the Obed location, and as
there were so few of us we decided to join
the other settlements on the Little Colorado
River.
	June 5, 1878, was a sad day for me—the
Lord in His wisdom saw fit to take our re-
maining child to Himself, and we for a sea-
son are deprived of her dear society; but
He doeth all things well, and I desire to
bow humbly to His will.
	There were some Lamanites farmed with
us, and were so elated with their success
that they are trying again this season. The
bitter is always mixed with the sweet. and
we were forcibly reminded of this when just
as we were congratulating ourselves upon
our abundant harvest, the floods came and
destroyed several hundred bushels of our
grain, but we still have enough for bread.
	Our relations with our Lamanite brethren
are very friendly, and they seem much at-
tached to their "Mormon" brothers, and
have the utmost confidence in us. They
are an industrious people and willing to
learn. There is a great work to be done
for the redemption of that people, and we
of the Arizona settlements are doing all we
can to assist in this great work, by example
as well as by precept
	March, 5, 1879, we started on a visit to
our relatives in Cache Co., and arrived
April 3, after a pleasant trip.
	I will write again when I get home, as
you are so kind to urge and stimulate your
sisters to write I feel encouraged to try.
May God bless and prosper you in your
labors, and may the EXPONENT live long to
cheer the women of the Latter-day Saints.
	PHEBE A. MCNEIL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S VOICE

	After reading and hearing so much said
and done of the noble and brave stand that
my sisters have taken since the decision
of the Supreme Court of the Uunited
States in the Reynolds case, I feel like add-
ing my humble mite to that of my sisters.
Our enemies are very assiduous in their
labors in trying to pull this principle of
ours to pieces. Dear editor, it looks to me
the more our enemies oppose plural mar-
riage the more the sisters are determined
to sustain this holy principle, both with
their faith, prayers and works. What
pusillanimity of mind our enemies do show,
especially the ladies, when they begin to
measure arms with Jehoeah, and in trying
to overthrow His purposes. Some ask what
we are going to do about the decision of
the Supreme Court of the United States.
We will wait upon the Lord and see His
salvation in this matter, as in all others.
He has been our strength and salvation in
perilous times that are past, and we will
trust in Him for the present, and also for
the future. There are many Sarahs, Rach-
els, Leahs and Hannahs in this age of the
world, who are as willing to be obedient to

[Column 2]

great and holy principles as were the ancient
women of God.
	It is said that plural marriage is degrad-
ing. We think and know that it is elevat-
ing in its nature. We believe in the resto-
ration of all things, Patriarchal Marriage
included. Why not let all women be hon-
orable wives and mothers of families? Sis-
ters, let us try and do away with our sefish-
ness, and not debar women from filling the
measure of their creation. We will try
and keep God's commandments and raise
up unto Him a God-fearing, noble and vir-
tuous generation of sons and daughters,
who will build up a kingdom of righteous-
ness and make the earth fit for the coming
of the Savior.
	We are determined to stand by the right,
notwithstanding all our enemies can do or
say; we need not their sympathy, we care
not for their censure. All we want is our
Constitutional rights, that our fathers fought
and bled for, and the privilege of worship-
ping God according to the dictates of our
own consciences. Oh, what a shame that
we as American citizens cannot have our
rights and privileges! But never mind, we
can afford to wait the Lord's time, Who
doeth all things well for those who love and
fear Him.
	A few more words by way of caution to
some of my sisters. Some of our would-be
friends are very diligent in asking ques-
tions of our sisters about their domestic
concerns—how many wives their husbands
have, how many children each wife has,
and what the husband has to keep them on.
One thing is certain, the wives our husbands
have are their own, by their own free will
and choice, and as for our children, we are
not going to turn them adrift on the world.
No, emphatically no! as long as they have
fathers and mothers that are true to the
Gospel, they will own them. We know
that our children are the Lord's heritage.
It is a part of women's sphere to raise up
children. Where can she find a nobler title
than Mother, or a more sacred charge than
souls given into her hands to care for? And
let us above all keep our holy vows and
covenants, and not cast cur precious pearls
before swine. Some of our would-be lady
friends are on the alert, and the Evil One is
ever ready to suggest; let us be on the
alert too, and show by our works and con-
versation that the wisdom of the Lord is
far before the cunning of the Evil One.
The Lord expects wisdom of his children.
	I. P. W.
Mill Creek, May 23, 1879.


[Column 1]
A BREEZE IN TIMBERVILLE.

FROM THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL.

	EDTORS JOURNAL:—Tabitha Bowers wrote
to me that she saw an article signed with
my name in your paper copied from the "In-
ter-ocean," and I thought if you were kind
enough to do that may be you could give me
some light in these matters, and I am sadly
troubled. My letter, which was published
in the "Inter-ocean," somehow fell into the
hands of Elder Jenkins, and he came to me
very much disturbed in mind. It seemed
so strange, he said, that after listening to his
preaching so many years, I should now be
led astray by these infidel reformers. In
vain I assured him that I was still sound in
the faith, and was only seeking to understand
the real meaning of St. Paul's teachings
and their application to the present time. He
replied that the very fact of my having writ-
ten to a secnlar newspaper for information,
was evidence sufficient of my lukewarmness.

[Column 2]
Why Elder Jenkins, what could I do," I cried
in my dismay, "I had no husband to ask?"
He patted me on the head, (for he had taken
his seat very near me, as is the ministerial
cnstom,) and looking smilingly right into
my eyes said, "Why, child, could not you
ask your pastor?" I do not suppose anybody
in Timberville will see your paper, leastwise
I hope Elder Jinkens won't, but I must con-
fess I felt real uncomfortable. In the first
place I am by no means a child, being about
midway between childhood's first and sec-
ond stage. Again, I do not think it is nice
for men, even if they are ministers, to pat
women on their heads and call it a fatherly
interest. I had a good father, but when I
became a woman he treated me as such,
and I can not make such manners seem nat-
ural. But I shoved my chair a little farther
off and put on as brave a face as I could,
and asked him if he would tell me just how
he understood St Paul. He said that women
was the "weaker vessel" and that it was
a shame for her to "speak in church," or to
"pray with uncovered head," that they
should not wear "braided hair, or gold, or
pearls, or costly array." Now I do not know
what the fashions are in Boston, but in Tim-
berville the women's bonnets hang on their
back hair, and their heads are all uncovered
and they wear great heavy gold chains out-
side of all their wraps, and they go to church
with their hair frizzed and braided in a
most marvelous manner, and never a minis-
ter has opened his mouth to condemn such
unseemly apparel. Latterly; however, they
wear what they call "bangs," and the hair
comes clear down to their eyes, and may be
St. Paul is responsible for the style. I must
say that I have noticed with pain that at
our church sociables Elder Jenkins pays a
great deal more attention to these gaily
dressed ladies than he does to the soberly
attired women of his flock, and sometimes
when I have been thinking it over I have
been almost afraid St. Paul might have done
the same.
	Then the Elder went on to say that
according to Paul "Adam was not decived;
but the woman being deceived was in the
transgression." I asked him if that meant
that Eve really believing that the eating of
the apple would make her wise was a
greater sinner than Adam, who ate his with
his eyes open just becouse Eve offered it to
him? He said that all the misery in the
world was the result of Eve's insane desire
for wisdom; that if all women were wise it
wonld subvert the entire order of creation,
for their husbands could no longer rule over
them; as to Adam, he went on to say his sin
was a manly one, and that the sins men
committed in consequence of the attractions
of women were never visited so heavily up-
on the men as upon the women, by nature
or society; woman invariably paid the pen-
alty. It might appear hard, but he believed
it was according to the established order of
things. Then I asked him what St. Paul
meant when he said, "let not a widow be
taken into the number under threescore
years old, having been the wife of one man,
well reported of for good works; if she have
brought up children, if she have washed
the saints' feet, if she have relieved the af-
flicted, if she have diligently followed every
good work. But the younger widows re-
fuse." He looked at his watch and said his
call was already too long, that he had agreed
to meet a committee of ladies that afternoon
who were trying to devise means to raise
the minister's salary and refurnish the par-
sonage; there was to be a donation party;
and then they already had a sewing society
and a mite society, which met every week;
but they thought, perhaps, something might


be done in the way of noonday lunches and
strawberry festivals in the evening. In
parting he again laid his hand upon my
head (this time solemnly as if he were to
pronounce the benediction) and said, “my
dear child, do not distress yourself with
such abstruse questions; but live quietly in
the sphere where you rightfully belong,
remembering always that “Great is the
mystery of godliness.” Now Mr. or Mrs.
Editor, whichever you may be, I belong to
that committee, and am expected to meet
with them to try to raise this good
man’s salary. I do not outstep my sphere
when I go around with a subscription paper
for his benefit. I am considered modest
when I force tickets for church festivals on
unwilling buyers; in short, I can do a great
many things which are exceedingly revolt-
ing to my own sense of propriety, and be told
that I am only "bearing my cross,” but
when I dare think for myself upon any sub-
ject, no matter how quiet, I am, I.‘get out
of my sphere directly. DORCAS ALLEN.
Timberville, May 23, 1876-


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	TRUTH may be outraged by. silence.—Am-
mian.
	SPEECH is noble only when,like an honest
currency, it represents the gold of thought.
W. M.Taylor.
	MRS. FAWCETT, wife of Professor Fawcett,
the blind member of Parliment, is lecturing
once a week at Oxford, to an audience of
ladies, on political economy.
	THE Phrenological Journal for July con-
tains the autobiography and portrait of Mrs.
Belva A. Lockwood the Washington wom-
an lawyer.
	MLLE Bernhardt has just enrolled half a
dosen secretaries to whom she dictates sim,
ultaneously the various articles she sends
to the different newspapers of Paris, the
departments and abroad.
	A New York woman says with much truth
Were it not for the self-sacrificing women
of the land who marry and support so
many men the number of tramps would be
largely increased.
	UNIVERSAL love is a glove without fin-
gers, which fits all hands alike, and none
closely; but true affection is like a glove
with fingers, which fits one hand only, and
sits close to that one.—Richter.
	A KIND word of praise, a hearty expres-
sion of good will, a little help offered at the
right-time none of these things cost much,
but each may make to many a sad heart the
difference between joy and sorrow.
	THE germ of Douglas Jerrold's joke,
"that it was better to be witty and wise
than witty and othewise," is to be found
in a little book of Conceits, "published in
1630.
	"We smile at the ignorance of the savage
who cuts down the tree in order to reach the
fruit; but the fact is. that a blunder of this
discription is made by every person who is
over-eager and impatient in the pursuit of
pleasure.
	IT is a high, solemn, almost awful thought
for every individual man, that his earthly
influence, which has a commencement, will
never, through all ages, have an end! The
life of every man is as the wellspring of a
stream, whose course and destination, as it
winds through the expanses of infinite years
only the Omniscient can discern.—Carlyle.


LITERARY WORK FOR YOUNG
LADIES.
	WALLSBURG, June 23, 1879.
	Our Association was re-organized Feb. 7, with
the following officers: Lucina Boren, President,
Alice Cook and Julia Bigelow Counselors, Dora
Bigelow Secretary, Ada Glenn Treasurer. We
have edited one paper, “The Young Ladies’
Adviser.” It was edited by Izora Boren and
Ada Glenn. We intend to issue it monthly.
The articles arranged as follows: Introductory,
Summer, Improvement, Kindness, Faith,Hope
Charity, Improve Your Talent, Slang Talk, Be
Kind to the Poor, Obedience, Backbiting,
Home,Remember Our Sisters That are Sick,Do
Right, Truth, Honor and Always be Kind.
Contributors, Lucina Boren, Alice Cook, Dora
Bigelow, Ada Glenn, Izora Boren, Martha
Clifton, Louisa Kirbey, S. I. Boren.
	IZORA BOREN, Ass’t Sec’y.


﻿PRINCESS LOUISE contributes to the
Grosvenor Gallery a pretty statuette portrait
in terra cotta of her friend, Miss Violet
Lindsay. The figure is represented as seated
with the head turned slightly from the
spectator. The young lady holds a basket
in hor slender hands and two dainty slip-
pered feet peep out from under her gown.—
Ex


﻿QUEEN VICTORIA has just instituted a new
order which does her as much honor as its
recipients. It is to be bestowed upon those
trained female nurses who, by their skill
and conduct deserves high recognition, and
they will be called “St. Katharine’s Nurses.”
Each St. Katharine’s nurse will hold her
appointment for three years, receiving dur-
ing that time $250 a year in additton to the
salary paid her by the institution to which
she belongs, and will be permitted to wear
for life the royal badge or armlet of the
order.—Ex


TO THE LADIES !

HEALTH Corsets, Shoulder Braces, Skirt Supporters,
Back Braces, and Abdominal Supporters, for sale or
made to order, by P. E, Harper, First South Street, 
nearly opposite Theatre.
	Mrs. ZINA D. Young, agent for this Territory.
	Physicians and Ladies, call and examine.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in the Sewing Machine Construction. The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading huttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, III.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian 
Church.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of 
women. 
NEW SPRING STOCK
F. AUERBACK & BROTHER
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

DAVID JAMES.
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice. 
Orders from the country promptly responded to. 
Address. David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.
Snell's Coap, warranted First Class,
	3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap, - - 3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc) - - - 35 Cents each
Brooms, - - - - - 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS, 
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock 
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers.
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed. 

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace. Ties a large 
variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
And in fact everything you want in general
merchandise. Conference visitors, call at
TEASDEL'S

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY
Salt Lake City. 	97 Kimball Block

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE--Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES. 
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


[handwriting in the top margin]

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

"A Word fitly Spoken is like Apples of Gold in Pictures of Silver."

