VOL. 8.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1800.		No. 2.1


TO ANNIE.

ON HER WEDDING DAY.

They tell me that this morning dawns for you,
	As dawned one glorious morn in June for me:
That loving, trusting with bright hopes in view,
	Thou art destined now a bride, a wife to be.

Loved maiden, after nearly seven years,
	Of married life, of "sunshine" and of "shower,"
I have no doubts, no vague, alarming fears,
	To off er thee in this, thy bridal hour.

For I believe, thou hast wisely put thy trust
	In Him who should o'er-rule these things for youth;
That He hath chosen for thee one most just,
	Endowed with kindness, honesty and truth.

And I believe that he will faithful prove,
	Through all the varying scenes that life may bring,
Not only to thyself and thy pure love,
	But to the Priesthood and our Sovereign King.

And dearest, girl, what can frail woman claim,
	More honorable or fraught with greater worth,
Than to accept the love and bear the name,
	Of one of God's true servants on the earth?

Jewels and gold, and all that worldlings prize,
	Compared with what is sealed as thine to-day,
In any truly noble woman's eyes,
	Would seem but worthy to be cast away.

Ah! wealth is good, and may be sought by all,
	As gifts and blessings lent us from above,
As aids to happiness, kind aids, but small,
	Which add to comfort, but oh! not to love!

And love is best, pure love without alloy,
	Of all the blessings and the mercies given;
It brings the sweetest bliss, the holiest joy,
	And gives us faith and hope that lights to Heaven.

Dear Annie, may your star of love be bright,
	To guide through every mist and every storm;
May "showers" to prove thy faith be only light,
	And blessed "sunshine" after clear and warm.

Salt Lake City. March 17th, 1880.	LULA.


[Column 1]	
	NATURE AND ART.

	BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Nature and art are twins, born of beauty
and brought from heaven! All the grand
sculptors have taken their models from Na-
ture—beautiful, glorious Nature, the child
of God! Art has watched and closely stud-
ied her sister, Nature; and if the artist,
painter or sculptor, has had a sublime,
poetical, Heaven inducted soul, so far has he,
or she, excelled their contemporaries. To
visit those Galleries, Mausoleums, or Halls
of Statuary is a feast none but those who
witness such can understand or appreciate;
language cannot demonstrate it. In the
figures, the attitudes, the expression, there
is a spirit in each that is felt, but not told
by articulate sounds. The allegory of Pyg-
malion falling so deeply in love with a beau-
tiful statue, and throwing the inspiration of
his love into the embraces he lavished upon
it, and thereby warmed it into life, contains
a beautiful truth, and has a reality in it that
those will at once comprehend on beholding
the wonderful works of art by the hands
of the immortal artists!
	"The Dying Gladiator," the world re-
nowned marble figure that generations have
rushed to behold, in which lives all the ago-
nizing sufferings of that awful moment,
when the all-accomplished athlete sinks,
dying under the wounds he has received in
the unholy strife, which "crowned heads"
and all the "elite" of Rome had assembled
to witness—half being ladies of the first
nobility. In parenthesis let me say, that

[Column 2]
age is called barbarous, and perhaps in some
things that term may have truth in it; but
what grand, stupendous, almighty works
were accomplished in that age! We seem
to be pigmies compared with that day and
age. But to return. In the writhing of that
suffering being, in the expression of face and
form, is read, as in an open book, the warfare
he has died to portray. Accomplished he was
in the superhuman art to which he had been
educated, and in which he has hitherto
borne the palm. Surely the artist must
have taken these expressions from the liv-
ing exhibition, for no imagination, however
vivid, could so truthfully have depicted
them, or so graphically developed them up-
on the cold, insensate marble, which, by
the hand of the artist, has been made to
live again, "not for an age, but for all
time."
	The "Venus di Medici," another model--
I had almost said living, for the beholder
almost asks, Does she breathe? Another
model that millions of eyes have beheld
with rapture, never to forget! A model of
a perfect woman! Study it, ye ladies who
cripple the glorious form of nature by tight
lacing and tight dresses. No wasp-like
waist is there, it is grand, glorious nature,
in all her heaven-born, heaven-endowed
freedom! Now we will come home. Watch
the movements of a little child when free
from the trammels of dress, especially some
children; see how artistically graceful they
are in their gambols, in their movements,
when they forgot that any eye is upon
them! How I have loved to watch them
in all the artistical beauty of nature, and I
have yearned to be a mechanical artist, that
I might catch some of those attitudes and
immortalize them on the canvas or the
stone! But oh! all this has been done over
and over again, and the world teems with
the glorious beauty of past and present
times; and it is a living feast to those who
are privileged to behold it. Byron, in his
own strong, peculiar language, describes his
feelings, on returning (I think) from the
Vatican; he says: "I returned dazzled, and
drunk with beauty." This language will
be fully understood by one who is imbued
with the sublime, the heavenly and the 
beautiful; to others there will be no glory
in the words.
	In the Histrionic art, it is the personifi-
cation of nature, cultivated, refined, glori-
ous nature, that gives the inspiration to the
audience. Macready, Charlotte Cushman
and others of the present day, made the
stage glorious by the entire naturalness of
their [-]mpersonations.  It was truth they
portrayed, and that made them great, grand
and absolute.
	In common, every day life, how delight-
ful it is to meet one who is perfectly natural;
affectation is never attractive. Let a person
be always their own original self, and they
will always be respectable, even if they
have not come in contact with beautiful art.
I would of course exalt art! Have I not been
doing so? but she must ever educate her-
self in the school of her sister, Nature, or,
believe me, she can never attract, never
charm, never rivet! This is one of the
problems of every day life, which many
fail to study. "Art must ever sit at the feet

[Column 3]
of Nature, and learn how to cultivate, re-
fine and embellish her.
	Salt Lake City, March 21.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE AS-
SOCIATION will hold its twelfth Annual
Convention in Masonic Hall, corner of
Washington and Tennessee Sts., Indiana-
polis, Ind., Tuesday and Wednesday, May
25th and 26th, 1880. * * *
	The National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion was founded upon the basis of individ-
ual rights in self-government, and of Na-
tional protection of national citizens in the
exercise of these rights. * * *
	What is a vote but an authoritative ex-
pression of opinion, and yet for the hundred
years and more of our country's life, in
every State and Territory woman has been
counted in the basis of representation, to
swell the power of one or the other of the
parties in Congress and the country, while
her rights of self-government have been
"trampled out and ignored." * * *
	From this Convention must go out  our
demand for the insertion of the following
plank in the platform of each party.
	Resolved. That the right to the use of
the ballot inheres in the citizen of the
United States, and we pledge ourselves to
secure protection in the exercise of this
right to all citizens irrespective of sex.
Friends of Woman Suffrage from over
the country are earnestly pressed to come to
this Convention. Let no matter of mere
personal convenience or inconvenience, pre-
vent your presence. It is a duty you owe
yourself, your sex, your country and the
world.
	Every effort for the comfort of delegates
will be made by the Indianapolis Equal
Suffrage Society, which will consider the
National Association as its guest during the
Convention. The hall selected is large and
abundantly provided with committee
rooms; and every preparation will be made
for the quick dispatch of business. Dele-
gates and speakers will be entertained, and
the address of the lady entertainer with a
note of introduction will be sent to every
delegate who makes known her design to
attend the Convention, so that at any hour
of arrival the guest will be expected, and
go directly to the address furnished.
Delegates fram all States and local socie-
ties, or other suffragists who expect to at-
tend the Convention, are requested to at
once communicate their intention to Mrs
May Wright Thompson,Sec'y. E. S. Society,
651 N.Alabama street, Indianapolis,Ind., in
whose charge these arrangements are placed
This Society will bend all its energies to
giving the National Association the best
possible opportunities for a successful Con-
vention.
	All letters and contributions for the Con-
vention should be addressed to Mrs. Thomp-
son, as above. Notice of preliminary meet-
ings will be given hereafter.
	On behalf of the National Woman Suffrage
Association.
	MATILDA JOSLYN, GAGE, Ch'm'n. Ex.
Com. SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Vice Pres't at
large. SARA ANDREWS SPENCER, Cor. Sec-
retary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ON	THE WING.

	EDITOR EXPONENT: You will doubtles
wonder why I have remained quiet so long.
The multiplicity of labor is my excuse,since
I have  been  here  in Philadelphia  I have
been engaged  early  and  late attending,
lectures at  the Woman’s Medical  College
and studies connected  therewith  have en-
grossed my every thought.  I have listened
with labored attention and took notes during
the entire Lectures  of the  eight  different
Professors during the Fall and Winter Ses-
sion which  has  just  closed.  To  write
rapidly seven hours a day after a lecture is
a labor  both body and mind.  Now  as
each student anxiously  waits the  greeting
of home friends  they  part  with  many  of
their  class  mates  forever.  I like  others
look forward to  the  time  of  meeting  my
boy and sister in Illinois  and  still  more
remote my home and friends in Utah where
the most of the labors of my life have been
and among the people  with  whom  my
future hopes and prospects are blended.
	I am proud that I have an interest  with
as noble  men  and  women  as  history  can
boast;  that have and are valiantly lighting
for the truth.  When I read the address of
C. W. Penrose  before the House of Repres-
entatives I felt to say as other Ladies here
did "that they could vote  for such a man,”
indeed I felt that such a man, deserves from
each  woman an hundred  votes.  I have
come for a purpose and I intend  to accom-
plish it when, where and how, the best way
I can, which the future  will  decide  by the
aid of that divine influence which all saints
should by guided by in every pursuit of life.
The Latter-day Saints  sometimes  express
themselves that they wanted weeks to ac-
complish the labor of a  day.  It seems  as
though my experience here has  been  the
same.  The labor of months is rushed upon
us in the Lecture of one hour.  My attention
is now directed to Ann Arbor  which I shall
visit enroute to Illinois and shall mail this
letter there, to you.  While I pen this I am
now by steam power  rushing over the road
that a few years ago  took hours  to travel a
distance that  now  requires just  so many
minutes.
	There my pencil  has been stopped while
we were driven with all speed  in dense
darkness through a tunnel  which I should
judge a  mile or so in length.  The guide
post says we are 105, miles east of Pitts-
burg.  What does all this haste  portray to
a reflecting mind,if the reader would know,
read Joel and the ninth  Chapter  of Micah
and be convinced.
	When I went to Philldelphia I  traveled
by the way of the Great Lakes.  I visited
the Exposition at Chicago  which  was a
magnificent  affair. Water falls and  all
kinds of machinery  of  modern  invention,
from the reaper and threshing  machines to
the manufacturing  of  childrens toys, the
baking of pies and cakes  all this  was being
conducted by steam.
	I must not stop here but ask  you  to  fol-
low me on to the greatest  natural  curiosity
of North America  the Niagara  Falls which
has been so many times  described that my
description would not give you an addi-
tional idea of its  grandeur.  I paid twenty-
five cents  for  entering  the  enclosure  and
another twenty-five to view the Grand Art
Gallery, before I had time to get half  way
round I was told it was time to close—of
course they were  not  interested  in  how
much I saw, but in how much  they could
get.—Such is life, pay your money and  get
its worth if you can.  Now I will give you a
glimpse of my childhood’s home as I arrive
	the town of Gerry  Chatauqua  Co. N. Y.
my uncle B. F. Field,mother’s only brother
takes me in his carriage to the  two  farms
which looked small and diminutive  of 150,
acres compared to the open broad prairies of
the west.—The barn was the  only  remains
of the buildings—In the grave yard  not a
stone to show the resting place of my kind-
dred of 35 years ago.  I saw  two  or  three
disinterested persons that I once saw in my
childhood;  the school  house was gone.  I
must hurry past  this scene.  The place
seemed deserted, not the thrift and improve-
ments  of other places.  Even  the old pine
stumps that would not  decay  were  pulled
up by machinery and were used to fence
some of the farms with their wide spread-
ing roots extending 20 or 30, feet  into the
air, rather rural looking to be sure.  The
homes many of  them have  the  same  old
style  of 30 years  ago  one  and half  story
framed clapboarded and painted white with
out a porch.  But the Cemetery  which  my
uncle superintends, where lie the remains
of my aunt and cousins, is beautiful beyond
description,  decorated  with  evergreens
trained and trimmed in every  conceivable
manner.  Now we will pass on to Philadel-
phia, in  1877 the population  of  this  city
was over, 624022, as one  passes  through
the city in  the  street  cars  you got an  im-
pression that the houses are mostly made of
brick and all of one pattern,  from three  to
four stories high and white  window  blinds
and 4 or 5, white marble steps.  The  front
of each house being  wide enough to admit
of one narrow front room and hall the rest
of the room is found back  and  up two and
three flights of stairs which  must be more
or less ascended and decended any time the
front door  bell  rings  which  requires  an
extra pair  of shoes, and  double  supply of
muscle. Every morning you will see the
ladies out  washing the white marble  steps
and the brick walk the width of their own
house.  These white steps and white blinds
give  the  city  such  a  clean  appearance.
You only know one street  from  another by
its number.
	A rich man builds,not one, home  but one
side of the block  to rent  after  one pattren
hence the sameness.  Coal is furnished the
poorer class by the basket full every morning.
Trade is conducted in many of the out shops
on a small scale.  I saw one woman  purch-
ase one egg at the rate of 20 cents per doz-
en another a fourth of a pound  of butter  at
30 cents per pound.  I must tell you I have
not eaten a good potatoe since I left Utah,
the country does not produce them and the
poor variety it does produce is sold by the
half peck 13 cents.  Here now  we arrive
at Pittsburg,what a contrast from the above.
The houses are smoky, dirty, black, gloomy
and it seems as though a good  many  more
adjectives would not half  express the dirty
faces  of  the  workmen  and  appearance of
the city.  Now we are abreast of the Ohio
River 25 years  ago  I sailed  down  it with
my father’s family of which only three of the
seven are now living.  We ascend  to  the
north of the state  and  along  Lake Erie the
country is  not  so  broken  as  through  the
state of Pennsylvania and the farms and res-
idences  appear pleasant and very inviting.
	There I could only get my trunk checked
for Detroit  and  in the  hurry  of changing
cars in the night have left it, and so I must
see the conductor  and  have  it  forwarded.
As I go northward in Michigan the homes
are more scattered and places less improved.
I have  not  seen a horse, or  a  cow,  the
whole distance only as attached to a team.
	Ann Arbor, Michigan, Saturday  morning
March 7th. Now here the  two  friends are
lost in the arms  of  each  other.  My dear
friends if you have ever experienced a de-
privation of all  association  for  the  same
length of time you can well  appreciate the
feelings of each.
	Miss Mattie  Paul  seems  happy.  Not
quite so rosy as when she left home but her
untiring  energy  and  perseverance  speak
well for her future  prospects.  I thought I
was self sacrificing  but when  one  of  her
years and experience has endured so bravely
the absence of a mother and home ties, I
can only say she  has  my  approval and I
trust the approbation of  her many  friends.
I will visit the College here to-morrow  and
write more as I have more to say and more
time  to  say  it.  With  compliments and
respects to yourself and friends.
				E. S. BARNEY.
	March 7th, 1880.


HOME AND REFORM.

	Many are the subjects which have been
discussed, to bring about a general reform
or to improve the moral status of the civil-
ized world, especially among the American
people of whose soaring ambition,the Eagle
is the emblem.
	Lean back in your chair, dear reader and
with your mind's eye, take a glance at the
political world of to day. What is It? It
looks like a huge body of waters foaming,
frothing and boiling over; embodying the
wildest passions with the noblest impulses;
the basest corruption calling forth the ut-
most efforts of the few honest gallant
patriots, who like Washington have it at
heart, to steer the nation to safety.
Freedom! Independence! Equality! are
divers cries, uttered with divers motives;
some individuals trying to establish fair
play and peace, others concealing under the
mantle of patriotism and religion their self-
ishness and greed. Clamoring for office
and high positions,not because of any desire
to do good to their fellow beings, but to fat-
ten themselves on the nation's life blood.
Will ever this strife be abated and sub-
dued? Not until the social structure is re-
modelled and built upon true and sound
principles. Home, or the family circle, is
the foundation of Society, of Kingdoms and
Republics.
	Build the family relationship upon truth,
honesty and thorough confidence, arm it
with prudence and industry, and its mem-
bers will set forth, prepared to withstand
the temptations and allurements to be met
with in political life.
	A century ago,when the fear of God fru-
gality and industry were the rule; and
levity, indolence and extravagance the ex-
ception, confidence prevailed in social and
political circles. Now prudence and frugal-
ity are derided by the majority, and ex-
travagance and pride are the order of the
day. Home the social demoralization.
	Young men and maidens whose hearts
are filled with love for your country, and
whose noble desire is to see our glorious flag
untarnished: this much wished for reform
may begin with you! Leaving the follies
and giddy pastimes that are now fashionable
for the young; choose your partners in life,
among the God fearing, active, and indus-
trious of your acquaintance, lay a firm and
sure foundation for your future career while
you are full of hope and vigor. Shun ease
and extravagance as unholesome to moral
health, the result will be self respect and
consciousness of having put one sound
spoke in the social and political wheel.
	E. C. E. F.


﻿Insults are like counterfeit money;  they
may be  offered, but you  need  not  take
them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿A WELCOME.
INSCRIBED TO MY LITTLE NIECES WHO LIVE
			IN JUAB  CO., UTAH.

		Welcome! welcome little Nieces:	
		To this world of ours;
<j s="" welcome="" 1="" though="" ye="" came="" la="" dozens'3="" erll="" fc,budg,of="" humanopwers;="" ,-i,="" fik="" ’="" fragrant="" irom="" the="" bills="" eternal,="" y.'t="" -'t="" ajt'hjy'alrsyetaste;="" mdttoireartiia’garden="" reraal="" ‘="" ,"="" i="" -="" m-r.="" otherwise="" a="" waste.="" ‘i4'.="" o(="" wrapped="" within="" lolda="" of="" beauty,-'-="" '.ofyoucbodles.fair,="" .j-="" o		Welcome! Though ye came in dozens,
		Buds of human flowers;
		Fragrant from the hills eternal,
		Earthly airs ye taste;
		Making earth a garden vernal
		Otherwise a waste.
<j s="" welcome="" 1="" though="" ye="" came="" la="" dozens'3="" erll="" fc,budg,of="" humanopwers;="" ,-i,="" fik="" ’="" fragrant="" irom="" the="" bills="" eternal,="" y.'t="" -'t="" ajt'hjy'alrsyetaste;="" mdttoireartiia’garden="" reraal="" ‘="" ,"="" i="" -="" m-r.="" otherwise="" a="" waste.="" ‘i4'.="" o(="" wrapped="" within="" lolda="" of="" beauty,-'-="" '.ofyoucbodles.fair,="" .j-="" o
		Wrapped within the folds of beauty,
		Of your bodies fair,
		Lie the germs of love and duty,
		Germs of joy and care
		Hid beneath the lovely lashes	
		Of your lustrous eyes,
		Kindling with increasing flashes
		Fire immortal lies.

		Welcome are ye little nieces
		Yet ye soon shall know
		Earth has many snares and dangers
		Many cups of woe,
		May the children-loving Father,
		Ever keep you in his care,
		May you honor, love, and serve him,
		This shall be your Auntie's prayer.

		Hands, and hearts, and noble daring,
		Souls of truth, we need, 
		In this age of ages, bearing
		Final harvest seed.
		Welcome theredore little Nieces
		Not with pleasure small, 
		Were ye twice ten scores of dozens
		I should  love you all.
								SISTER PLUNKET.


[Column 1]

FAITH.

	Faith is one of the vital elements essen-
tial to the character of a saint of God. The
cultivation of faith is a duty of our daily
lives, which should not be neglected. It
underlies all the great truths which the
Gospel teaches. Without this principle we
are blind, and callous to all, that will en-
noble, exalt and purify our hearts, our
lives and our aspirations. Especially is it
necessary that the mother be endowed with
the precious gifts and quality of faith; that
she should pessess the pure spring of living
faith in her soul, that she may impart the
germ to her offspring, and seek to promote
its culture and growth in all her teachings
to the infant mind.
	Many are the simple lessons of faith in
God, and his dealings with mankind,
learned at the mother's knee, that have
gone with the man out into the great, busy,
active world and given him a deep and
lasting conviction of the evidences of div-
inity. In the most trying hour, when all
seemed uncertain and unreliable, the
mother's careful teachings of the Savior
and his blessed promises, have come with
refreshing light as from heaven, and im-
parted courage that could penetrate beyond
the dark clouds and reveal a ray, at least,
of glowing light beyond.
	There can scarcely be too much said upon
this important subject. It is a topic for
conversation of which we never need tire,
there is so much to be learned of its appli-
cation to our lives and conditions here upon
the earth. The instructions given upon
Faith in the "Book of Doctrines and Coven-
ants" should be carefully studied by our
young people; and the exercise of faith
should be a part of their spiritual educa-
tion; and mothers who may feel they are
well acquainted with this subject,would be
amply repaid by re-perusing those interest-
ing chapters upon Faith alluded to above.
It is true that our sisters have had many
and great, practical illiustrations of the
principles of faith in their past experiences
in this Church; and it is very edifying to

[Column 2]

hear rehearsed some of these striking inst-
ances of the sublimity of faith, given to the
Saints when passing through deep trials
and serious afflictions. How much darker
and drearier and more desolate still, would
the wearisome days of travel and pilgrim-
age have been, through which our people
have passed, if they had not been rich in
that holy faith which lifts the human soul
above the clouds into the clearer atmosphere
of a higher altitude.
	Strength, courage and heroism are some
of the excellent fruits of this beautiful plant
of spiritual origin. It is sometimes urged
that "faith is not tangible," and those de-
void of this quality often remark "we want
something more tangible than faith!" Some
of the most powerful elements operating in
nature are not tangible,expect as applied to
tangible substances,and yet how wonderful
are their forces when thus brought to bear
upon other objects. Just so with faith; in
itself intangible, yet most potent when ap-
plied to truths, to circumstances and to the
lives of individuals. Faith cannot be meas-
ured. The great manifestations of the power
of faith in healing the sick are marvels and
wonders to the unbelieving, whose minds
lacking this attribute, cannot comprehend
mysteries of the unseen which can only be
understood by the spiritual sense."
	I am sure there are many instances of
the power of faith in the healing of the sick,
that have never been told to our children,
that would promote the growth of faith were
they known. I will relate a very remark-
able one to which I was an eye witness
many years ago. A young lady about eigh-
teen years of age was thrown from a carriage
and her knee badly injured: her parents
being in good circumstances took her to
several of the best physicians in that part of
the State where it occurred; it was in Mass,
near the Conn. river These Doctors tried
their skill, but all failed to cure her and
they decided she must be a cripple for life
and compelled to walk with crutches. The
Mormon Elders came to that vicinity, the
parents of the young lady recieved and
obeyed the Gospel. They were anxious
their daughter should be healed by faith.
They brought her to be baptized believing
firmly she would be healed. After some
time, for she was a very aristocratic girl
and did not like to give up her position in
the world, she gave her consent to be bap-
tized. It was a very cold day, the brook
was frozen solid, a hole was cut in the ice,
and one after another went into the water,
and by and by, the lame girl with her
crutches come down to the water's edge.
The Elders baptized her, she walked out of
the water, whole, and never had occasion
to use her crutches after. The fact of her
being healed created quite a sensation, es-
pecially among the Doctors who came from
far and near to inquire by what means it
had been done. But none could gainsay it.
	This is only one of thousands of manifes-
tations of the power of healing.
	The children in Zion should seek after
mighty faith, for there are great works to
be accomplished by them. They have
been born in the holy priesthood and are
heirs to all the promises of the new and
everlasting covenant, and God is ready and
willing to pour out rich blessings upon
them if they will seek unto Him and keep
his holy commandments; and let us all
remember, without faith it is impossible to
please God.
	AUNT EM.


Queen Victoria’s income  is $6,  300,  a
day.


ROCHESTER (N. Y.) OBSERVATORY.
"The  Rochester  Democrat  and Chronicle,"
	Rochester, N. Y., has the following of the 
new institution soon  to  be  erected in  that
city and to be  devoted  solely to  astronom-
ical  observations.  Professor  Lewis  Swift,
who is to have charge of this, and for whose
use it is especially built, takes rank  among
the ablest astronomers  of our country—and
for that matter of that of any other country
—and is one who is the recipient of a val-
uable  gold  medal,  presented  him  by  the
Imperial Academy of Sciences at Berlin, for
being the one first to discover the comet of
1878:
	“That we will soon  have  in our city  an
observatory that will be a credit not only to
Rochester,  but  the state and  nation,  is
now an assured fact.  Its estimated cost ex-
clusive of instruments, is $25, 000, the quad-
rants,  sextants and octants;  transit,  equa-
torial, parallactic  and circular instruments,
achromatic and  reflecting telescopes,  night
and  day  telescopes, chronometers, &c., will
be an additional  expense,  and  will  cost
somewhere near $13,000.  This entire sum
$38,000. as well as other expenses necessary
to make the building  and  apparatus  com-
plete, will be generously  donated by H. H.
Warner, of the firm of H. H. Warner & Co.,
proprietors of the deservedly popular  War-
ner's safe kidney and liver  cure and other
remedies.
	As this is peculiarly a Rochester  institu-
tion, the money to build and equip  it being
furnished  by  one  of  our  most  respected
citizens, and as  our  own  Professor  Lewis
Swift is to have control of it,  we mention it
with pardonable pride.
	In compliment to the liberal donor it will
be  called  "Warner's  Observatory."  The
building is to combine the observatory pro-
per and the observer's dwelling,  and  will
be a fine architectural  structure, and  rank
as one of the most  complete private obser-
vatories  in  the  world.  The dome and
tower will be ample in dimension for  man-
ipulating the great telescope.  This will be
some  twenty-two feet  in  length, and  will
weigh  about  two  tons.  The  telescope (a
refractor) will  have a clear aperture  of six-
teen inches, and is to be provided  with  all
the  appliances  which  the  refinement of
modern astronomy demands.  But  two tel-
escopes in the United States will surpass it
in size, viz.: those at Washington  and  Chi-
cago."


PRIMARY REPORT
	Report of the  12th, Ward  Primary As-
sociation Mrs.  Ellen  Clawson  President.
Our interesting little Association  is still in
progress.  Average attendance over  thirty
the majority of whom are very young child-
ren,  therefore  advancement  is  somewhat
slow but  steady.  Many  of  them  manifest
considerable self-possession when called up-
on to open and dismiss meetings &c.
	Recitations, select  readings,  essays &c.,
are carried on  in  good style,  interspersed
with short  lectures,  selections  from  good
books  and questions  on the same, from the
President and her counselers.
	Our contributions  to the Temple  for the
last two terms have  been  so small  that our
President deemed it wiser to wait until the
annual meeting in April  before  handing it
in.  The  amount  on  hand  to date,  is
seven dollars and ninty cent.
	We cordially  invite  our friends here  to
visit us by way of encouragement.
		Secretary, Master Samuel Barratt.
			Per. Assistant, Edna Clawson.
	March 19, 1880.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.    -	-	Editor.

	Published, semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms. One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00 Ten copies  for the  price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines  of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00.  A literal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower  West  Room of the Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours
from 10 a.m.  to  5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1880.


HALF A CENTURY.
	Fifty years have now elapsed since the
Church of  Jesus  Christ  in  this dispensation
was organized.  Six members only were present
on  that  momentous  occasion.  Their  names
will be  memorable  during  the  annals  of  all
time, as the original  founders  of a kingdom
which will continue  to  grow and thrive and
increase, until  a people  are  prepared  for  the
second advent of Christ upon the earth.  These
six men who composed the organization were
Joseph Smith the Prophet, Hyrum and Samuel
H. Smith, his brothers, David and Peter Whit-
mer and Oliver Cowdery.  The meeting was a
very quiet and unpretentious one in itself, al-
though  ushering  in the most glorious  of all
dispensations, and “a marvellous  work  and a
wonder."  It was  held in a private  dwelling-
house, the residence of Mr.  Peter Whitmer,
Sen., Fayette, Seneca Co., New York, on Tues-
day  the  6th  day  of  April, 1830  Singularly
strange  the  Annual Conference  of  the  half
century will commence on the same day of the
week.
	To be sure, much very important preliminary
work had been done in diflerent places previous
to the regular organization of the Church, and
considerable persecution  had  already  been
waged against the prophet and those who be-
lieved upon his word and aided  him in his la-
bors.  There were quite a number of persons
already baptized, besides those who formed the
first Conference;  but they were scattered, and
there had not as yet been any commandment
given them to gather together.
	In Kirtlaad, the first gathering place of the
Saints, in 1835, the first Twelve  Apostles were
called and ordained; though the revelation to
call and ordain Twelve Apostles was given in
Fayette, N. Y., in 1829.  Of the original quo-
rum of Apostles only one is now living, Elder
Orson Pratt.
	In the course of the fifty years which have
rolled their seasons round, since the rise of this
Church, from so small a beginning, many won-
derful  events  have  transpired which  fill  the
mind with awe  in  contemplation.  It would
be impossible to enumerate  here even a small
portion of them, and it would  take volumes to
record them all in the most concise and simple
form;  and though much  has  been  said and
published, yet  the  half  has  not  been  told.
Much of the history  of  the Church is still un-
written  which will  yet appear  in drama, in
poesy and in song.  And here is a wide field
for the literary talent of the young people who
are desirous of being  useful and promoting the
cause of Zion.  Facts  which,  if  elaborately
woven into plays, into poetry and into songs
set to music, would give an  original  tone and
style to these classical pursuits and professions,
that would  be  particularly  inspirational  in
bearing  and effect. It would be  educational,
too, in the best aud highest sense  of the term,
as pertaining to literary work.
	The steady  advance and onward march of 
this Latter-day work, notwithstanding the op-
position  brought to  bear  against it from all
quarters is one of the best evidences that it is
founded upon the “Rock of Ages," and though
storms assail and heavy billows  angrily beat
upon it, still remains firm and unshaken.  This
peculiar  people, though  mobbed, pillaged,
driven and persecuted, have kept on steadily
increasing in numbers.  Some have been slain
for  the truth’s sake, and many have died by
the wayside in their  weary travels and pil-
grimages, martyrs to the cruelty of their perse-
cutors; and yet the Saints to-day, many thou-
sands in number, occupy quite a large portion
of territory, and the Gospel is  still being pro-
mulgated in other lands.  Every year the new
converts gather to these “happy valleys" from
their  respective countries and homes, to learn
of the ways of the Lord, aid in  establishing
Zion and in lifting up the ensign to all nations.
	What great light has come into  the world
through the revelations given by the prophets
during these fifty years.  The fulness  of the
Gospel has been preached to the living and the
dead, and Temples have been erected in which
holy ordinances have been received, and cove-
nants made, and keys given that reach into the
eternities How many thousands who sat in
darkness have been enlightened by the  torch
of divine  truth, and how much more might
have bean accomplished but for the prejudice
which blinds the world, and the superstition
that covers the earth like a mantle of darkness.
	In this year there is every reason  to  believe
great events will transpire. We are most cer-
tain'y on the eve of  great changes, and no one
can tell what a day will bring forth
The coming Conference will no doubt be one
of prophetic significance, as it will mark a par-
ticular period of time, which fact will be recog-
nized  by  all  who  regard  special  times  and
events as turning  points in  the  history  of  the
Church  Everywhere, where Latter-day Saints
a e,among all nations,the 6th of April now near
will be remembered as the  anniversary of one
of the most auspicious days  that ever dawned
upon the sons and daughters  of  God.  Songs,
and  Hosannas,  and  prayers  of  thanksgiving
and praise will ascend on high, and the multi-
tudes of Saints in  all lands will rejoice together
for  the  blessings  vouchsafed  to the  people of
God.
	May the blessings  of  our  Father  in  heaven
rest  upon  the  people  in  great  abundance,
through his Holy  Spirit,  on  that  important
anniversary wherever the Saints may be gath-
thered together to worship.  And here  in this
centre Stake  of Zion may the glad hallelujahs
ascend in joyful  and  swelling  choruses  to
heaven for  the  manifold  blessings  bestowed,
for the peace, plenty and  prosperity that have
crowned the efforts made by this people during
the  fifty  years  of  the Gospel  dispensation.
Small in the beginning as this Church was, ob-
scure and unknown to the world as were its
founders, it stands  to-day a living  monument
of power, and  the  memory  of  those  remarka-
ble men who met together in that solemn Coun-
cil half a century ago to obey the voice of the
Lord, will on that day be fresh in the heart of
every Latter-day Saint.
						E. B. Wells


SEVERAL obituaries are laid by for lack of
space. We would also say again that we do
not publish obituary poems, except in rare in-
stances.


MARRIED.

"But happy they, the happiest of their kind!
Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings blend."

	On Wednesday, the 17th of March, 1880, at
the Endowment House, in this city,Miss Annie
Wells and Mr. John Q Cannon were united in
the holy bonds of matrimony, the ceremony
being performed by Pres. Wells, the father of
the bride. Mr. Cannon is the eldest son of
Mrs. Elizabeth H. and the Hon. George Q.
Cannon, who are both at present in Washing-
ton, D. C., and is connected with the editorial
staff of the "Deseret News" and "Juvenile In-
structor. The bride is the daughter of Mrs. E.
B. and Pres. D. H. Wells, and as our readers
are doubtless aware, is an occasional contribu-
tor and editorial assistant to the WOMAN'S 
EXPONENT, having filled the editorial chair on
several occasions during our absence from the
city.	
	In the evening a pleasant party of relatives
and friends assembled at the residence of the
bride's parents, to celebrate the happy occasion.
Congratulations and good wishes were liberally
bestowed, and many exquisite, elegant wed-
ding-gifts, tokens of love and friendship, were
presented to the young couple. During the
evening a telegram of congratulation was re-
ceived from Brother and Sister Cannon, ex-
pressing also their regret at not being present.
Refreshments were served to all, and the eve-
ning passed off happily in-social and sweet in-
terchange of kindly feelings. It is neeedless
to add that we wish our children all the joy
and happiness possible for mortals to attain to.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE will publish in our next issue fuller par-
ticulars of the Sisters' Conferences in Salt Lake
and Ogden.
	IT seems strange that after so much has been
published in regard to correspondents giving
their real name, that we should be under the
necessity of repeating again that we cannot
publish articles, or poems, unless they will fur-
nish the editor their full name. Initials are
no better than a nom de plume.
	THE Sisters' Quarterly Conference of Weber
Stake was held in the Tabernacle in Ogden
City, Thursday and Friday, March 18 and 19,
Mrs. Jane S.&nbsp;Richards presiding. Pres. John
Taylor and Sisters E. R. Snow and Zina D.
Young, of Salt Lake City, attended and took
part in the Conference, which was an exceed-
ingly important and interesting one. Pres.
Taylor was specially invited by the children of
the Primary Association. Apostle F. D. Rich-
ards, Pres. Peery and Counselors, and many
Bishops and other brethren of the county
attended the meetings.
	THE Sisters'  Quarterly Conference of Salt
Lake Stake was held in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Rooms Friday and Saturday, March 19 and
20, commencing at 10 A. M. and 2 P. M. each
day. The first day was especially devoted to
the representation of the various branches of
the Relief Society in this county, Mrs. M. Isa-
bella Horne presiding. The morning was oc-
cupied in reading written reports; in the after-
noon verbal reports were given by the respect-
ive presidents, and interesting addresses were
made by Pres. Horne and her Counselors, El-
mina S. Taylor and Sarepta M. Heywood.
	Saturday morning was the Y. L. M. I. A
Conference, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding.
Written and verbal reports occupied the early
part of the morning, after which the meeting


was ably addressed by Pres. Freeze and her
Counselors Louie Felt and Clara Young Con-
rad. Pres. Joseph Young then spoke to the
sisters in a most fatherly and comforting way,
and concluded by singing "There is a land of 
pure delight," in his most happy manner.
	Saturday afternoon the various Primary As-
sociations were represented by both written
and verbal reports. Sisters Eliza R. Snow and
Zina D. Young and Pres. A. M. Cannon each
addressed the meeting for a short time upon
subjects appropriate to the occasion. Confer-
ence adjourned for three months.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

GIVE TO THOSE RIGHTS TO WHOM
RIGHTS BELONG

	A very few women of the land have expressed
their opinion with regard to their rights as citi-
zens. I wish to express mine, and be num-
bered with the few.
	First I would ask, Can there be an organized
kingdom without male and female? No. In
the beginning God gave the law to Adam and
Eve. Eve suffered the penalty, and gained
the knowledge of good and evil. She became
the mother of all living, to act a conspicuous
part in the drama of human existence. "Male
and female created He them." And God
blessed them and said unto them: "Be fruitful
and multiply and replenish the earth, and sub-
due it: and have dominion over the fish of the
sea, and over the fowls of the air, and every
living thing that moveth upon the earth."
(Gen. 1, xxviii.)
	Without the woman chaos would now reign
triumphant on the earth. Man become de-
penedent upon the creation of woman, and she
was  fitted and constituted for the companion
of man, to be one with him in all things, and
what concerns one concerns the other. And it
is my opinion that why the world at large is in
such a plight and state of things is because
woman's voice has not beeu heard in the Coun-
cil; it has been set at naught as a vain thing.
Yes, woman, you must be in silent submission
stay at home and be as Martha, troubled about,
many things. But be careful, and not learn
the better part like Mary, lest you get too wise,
and your aspirations lead you to have a voice
in public affairs.
	I say to all women, make yourselves ac-
quainted with the technicalities of law made by
man, to govern you and your sons and daugh-
ters. Raise your voices on high to abolish law
that sustains grog-shops and billiard saloons to
make drunkards of your husbands, sons and
brothers. That make possible, yes lawful,
houses of ill-fame, that lead women onward to
shame and destruction, and screen men from
it while women are branded with infamy and
total ruin, body and soul. Wo! to men who let
your brothers go free in guilt, but punish what
you call the weaker veseel with exile from re-
spectable society, through the inconsistency of 
man made laws.
	I would again say to the women of the land,
get in your possession "Mother Eve's" knowl-
edge to know good and evil, to ward off the 
curse that leads to misery and death. Let wo-
men represent themselves, and plead for a sys-
tem of things that will punish the offender.
It is said, "Thou shalt not commit adultery."
There was a city spoken of, its builder's name
was Enoch, and he called its name after him-
self, and he walked with God three hundred
years. He and the city were taken up to
heaven. Think you that those citizens did not 
understand  the  law and order by which they
were governed and perfected? Reason would
answer they had knowledge of all things, and 
this gave them salvation and happiness. We

[Column 2]

will portray the folly of making intelligent be-
ings succumb to ignorance and vanity. We
are determined to advance in literature and
the arts. * * * It is not to say, because we
make ourselves acquainted with things that
are going on around us, that we want to fill
positions not befitting our sex, or seek for of-
fice; we will leave the men a clear field. But
ouly those are fit for office who will act for the
publig good. And I do hope that women will
not fall into those errors that men have com
mitted, viz., to make laws to corrupt, degrade,
persecute, and to take away the liberty of
speech and conscience. * * Let the weaker
be the stronger in virtue, temperance, honesty
and the rights of the people.
	MARY ANN PRATT.


NOTICE.
Mrs. Martha A. Bingham, of Riverdale, We-
bern Co., has forty (40) ounces of Silk Worm
Eggs, in good condition, for sale.  This  is  an
important item to those who are desirous of
raising silk worms this year.


OBITUARIES.

DIED, at Lewiston, Cache Co., Dec. 27, 1879,
Sister  Rhoda A. Allred,  alter  an  illness  of
nearly  two  years.  She was  born  March  15,
1834, in Upper Canada.  Has been a teacher in
the  Relief Society, which  position  she  filled
with honor to herself and interest to the So-
ciety.  She was well respected as a member of
this ward; and looked to the Lord in her afflic-
tions.							S. T.
At Alpine City, Utah Co., Feb. 29, 1880, at
the residence  of her  son-in-law, W. J. Strong,
of old age, Eliza Dyer Houston, wife of the late
Bishop Houtston, first Bishop of this place, aged
70 years, 1 month and 19 days.
Deceased  was  born  at  Stratford on-Avon,
England.  She emigrated with her only daugh-
ter in 1851, to St. Louis, and in 1852 came on to
Utah.  She was a member of the Birmingham
choir,and always delighted in singing the praises
of God. She was a member of the Birmingham
choir, and always delighted in singing the praises
of God. She was one of the Presidents of the 
Primary  Association  of  this  place, and  was
highly respected by  all who  knew  her.  She
lived  and died firm to the truth --Com.
DIED in Fairview, Sept. 11, 1879, Mary Pow-
ell Briggs, daughter of John and Mary Powell,
and wife of Robert Briggs.  Born in Mulmer-
shire, Lima, South Wales, on  the 5th  of Octo-
ber,  1822.  She emigrated  to  Utah  in  1866;
moved with her husband to  Fairview in  1867,
where she resided until her death.  She was a
faithful Latter-day Saint, taking an active part
with the Relief Society, being one of the grain
committee; and during her last illness she posi-
tively refused the assistance of learned physi-
cians,  relying  entirely  upon  the  administra-
tions of the Elders.  She died in full faith of
the Gospel  of Christ and in the hope of a glo-
rious resurrection.
LOIS A. WILSON, Cor. Sec't.

 DIED, at Marriot's Ward, Weber Co., Utah,
Feb. 28, 1880, from old  age, Sister  Sally  Had-
lock.  Deceased was born in the  State  of con-
necticut, Nov. 23, 1796,  making her age 83
years, 3 months and 5 days.  She moved from
her native State to  the  Town  of Jay, Orleans
Co., State  of Vermont,  where she  embraced
the Gospel in the year 1833.  She observed the
"Word of Wisdom"  from [--at] hearing  it
preached to her last; gathered to Kirtland, O.-
and went up to Missouri with what was called
the "Big  Camp;" shared with the Saints in
their drivings  from Missouri  to  Nauvoo, Ill;
was with them  in  their Exodus from  Nauvoo
to Pottawattamie, Iowa, where her companion
died.  She was then left with a large family to
care for, with  which  she crossed the plains in
1850, and settled in the fall of said year in Og-
den City, Weber Co.
 She was the mother of ten children, had
seventy-eight  grandchildren and twentry four
great-grand children.  She was a kind and af-
fectionate mother, full of integrity and firm in
the Gospel of  Jesus  Christ, and  fell  quietly
asleep with the bright assurance of a glorious
resurrection.		ANNE BICKINGTON.
We, the members of the Y. L. M. I. A. of 
Monroe, Sevier Co., subscribe this memorial of
respect to our departed sister, Olena Andersen,
daughter  of Oley Christian  and Anna Ander-
sen, of this place, who died Feb. 7, 1880, of ty-
phoid fever, after an illness of three weeks.
Olena  was  born  in Aalborge, Denmark, Feb.
18, 1864; her parents emigrated  to Utah while
she was only a babe.  She died aged 15 years,
11 months and 21 days.
 In memory of our much esteemed, respected
and beloved sister, who has been removed from
our midst by the hand of our Heavenly Fa-
ther, who giveth and taketh away at His own
will and  pleasure, she being a faithful member
of the Y. L. M. I. A., and  also a Counselor to
the President  of the  Primary  Association of
Monroe.
 Be it resolved, that the members of the As-
sociation  deeply mourn  her  loss, and  sympa-
thize with the bereaved parents, relatives and
friends in  the  loss  of so good and esteemed
friend, whose only regret on her dying bed was
that she had not had the privilege  of going to
the House of the Lord and  receiving her  en-
dowments.
Resolved, that we tender our  heartfelt sym-
pathy for the loss of so kind a companion and 
affectionate daughter.
Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
given  to  the  parents  of  the  deceased, and be
recorded in our general record book; and also 
furnished for publication  in the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT.
		LORENA E. WASHBURN, Pres't.
		JULIA LARSEN, Counselors.
		WINKA HORAS,


A MEMORIAL.

	By the Relief Society of Goshen, to the
memory of Mrs Mary Llewellen, whose death
was published in the EXPONENT of March 1.
	Our departed sister was beloved and respected
by all who knew her, and we recognize in our
late much-esteemed fellow-member a woman
of great integrity, one who was devoted by her
fatih and works to her religion and her God.
She ever welcomed the Elders to her hospitable
board, and they speak in high terms of her ac-
tive willingness to aid the progress of this
Church.
	Resolved, that we extend to her family in
this season of their great bereavement our
heartfelt sympathy, hoping they will follow
her precep's and example, and while mourning
her loss they may realize that though suddenly
called from earth, she has gone where the flesh
cannot hinder her spiritual labors in that para-
dise of bliss, what through old age she was
prevented doing while here.
	Resolved, that we acknowledge her honesty
of purpose which was apparent to all her sis-


ters; she was one who could not be turned
aside from the Gospel of Christ; her vision of
truth was clear, and her attachment to the re-
vealed religion as taught by Joseph Smith in
these last days was sincere. She was truly a
Mother in Israel and a true follower of Jesus
Christ.
	Resolved, that while her departure shadows
all our hearts, it arouses our deeper desires to
continue faithful, that our last days may be
like hers, full of faith in the hope of a glorious
resurrection.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
forwarded to her children, also to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and placed in our general record.
	Respectfully,
	MARY JOHNSON, Pres't.
		ELISON GOURLEY,
		MARY DODDS,            Committee.
		M. A. TILL,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

ST CHARLES.

	Minutes of the third Quarterly Conference
of the Ladies Relief Societies of the Bear
Lake Stake of Zion held in St. Charles
Meeting House the 28, and 29, of Feb. 1880.
28: 10 A.M. present on the stand Pres.
Julia P. Lindsay with her counselors Bish-
ops J. A. Hunt and Pugmire. Patriarch
James Works, Elders A. Galloway and
Andrew Jensen. After the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, minutes of the previ-
ous Conference were read and accepted. Sta-
tistical and Financial reports of the Relief
Societies and Primary Associations were
also read and accepted. President Lindsay
expressed the pleasure she felt in seeing so
many assembled in conference,was gratified
to have the brethren meet with us, said it
encouraged the sisters very much to see the
brethren take an interest in our affairs.
Herself and Counselors had visited( during
the past winter) almost all the Relief Socie-
ties and Primary Associations of this Stake.
Knew there was a growing interest
amongst the sisters, to attend their meet-
ings &c. Gave general instructions to the
Secretaries in regard to making out their
reports. Would be pleased to see the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT taken by the sisters and
circulated in all the families of the Saints.
Spoke of home industries &c. &.
	Sister E. Collings in her remarks said
our thoughts and actions are all known to 
our Father in heaven. We have to work
out our own salvation and not depend alto-
gether upon our husbands. Instructed the
sisters to guard carefully the children God
had commited to their care. Spoke of the
Associations now organized as all being
helps to qualify the young for the responsi-
ble places they will have to occupy in the
building up of God's kingdom; also of the
work we have to do for ourselves, and our
dead, when these Temples are finished;
hoped to live to see that day.
	Singing. Benediction, by A. Galloway.
	Feb. 28, 2 P. M. Meeting opened with
singing and prayer. Roll called of Presi-
dents and Counselors of Relief Societies and
Primary Associations, 19 present. The
president of the Relief Societies were called
upon to represent their respective organiza-
tions,which were very satisfactory, showing
that the sisters are doing a good work in
assisting the needy and trying to elevate
the state of society in our moral and every
day life. Sister Maria Rich desired an
interest in the faith and prayers of the
Saints, that she might be dictated by the
Spirit of God while addressing those pres-

[Column 2]

ent. Said the brethren may think this a
small affair, a sister's Conference; it was
not of our seeking. The presidency of this
Stake appointed it and placed it upon us to
travel through the Stake, visit the socie-
ties and instruct the sisters in their duties.
By the help of God herself and colaborers
would try and do their duty. Exhorted
the sisters to do all they could to build each
other up and not be watching for evil; avoid
fault finding and every thing that was cal-
culated to cause discord. Bishop J. Pug-
mire spoke of the way our young should be
trained, we want to train them to a better
and more elevated state than they are now
in. Thought the different associations
were very zealous and energetic in the good
work they are engaged in, also dwelt upon
the necessity of mothers teaching their
children correct principles. Bishop John
A. Hunt said he experienced great pleasure
while listening to the reports. It was
something new for the sisters to hold con-
ference; transact business, speak in meet-
ing. &c. &c., said there was great pleasure
in teaching and training the young, was
pleased to hear sisters speak who had many
years experience in this Church. Patriarch
James Works followed in a few words of
encouragement to the sisters regarding stor-
ing Grain. &c.
	Feb 28: 2 P. M. Pres. Lindsay in a few
words expressed her thanks to the brethren
for their encouraging words and the good
principles they advanced. It helped to
strengthen her in the discharge of her
duties. Asked the sisters to be united in
their faith and prayers that the Almighty
would turn away the sickness that is now
in our settlements hoped the sisters and
brethren would be punctual in attending
meeting to morrow.
	Singing. Benediction. Meeting was ad-
journed until 10 A. M. Feb. 29.
	Feb. 29:10 A. M. Young Ladies M. I. A.
occupied the forenoon.
	Feb, 29: 2 P. M. In addition to those
psesent on the stand the first day were Ap-
ostle C. C. Rich Pres. James H Hart and
George Osmond. Pres. Hart presented
the Stake and local officers of the Relief
Societies and Primary Associations to the
Conference. They were unanimously sus-
tained. Pres. Hart spoke of the advant-
ages to be gained from these organizations.
We are all organized and classified some
have capacity and ability for certain duties,
and others for other duties. It takes all of
us to make a perfect organization. Consid-
ered the storing of grain of great import-
ance alluded to the practice of gleaning as
being very ancient, brought up Ruth as an
example, also spoke of her illustrious de-
sendents, was pleased to see that the sisters
have succeeded so well in this direction said
the reports that had been read from the
different settlements were a guarantee of the 
energy and good faith of the sisters engaged
in this noble work; commended the Pres. of
the Stake and her counselors for their un-
ceasing effarts to do good.
	Feb. 29: 5 P. M. Pres. George Osmond
regretted not being present yesterday
showed the necessity of having the spirit of
God to assist us in all our labors. If an
evil existed in our midst it was our duty
to put that evil down; spoke of the influence
mothers have over the minds of thier
children, and how careful they should be in
educating and training their minds in all
th at was good and noble. Apostle C. C.
Rich addressed a few words of encourage-
ment to the Congregation said he believed
in practising his religion, encouraged all to
try and live the lives of Sains. Pres.
Lindsay spoke for a short time on the sub-

[Column 3]

ject of raising means in the Relief Societies
to help emigrate poor Saints from Europe
and gave other good instructions. Confer-
ence adjourned for six months
	Singing. Benediction, by Apostle C. C.
Rich.
	Report of the Primary Association of the
Bear Lake State of Zion from May 31, 1879
to Feb. 28,1880. No. of members 479,officers
48, Total officers and members 527; Meet-
ings held 149; Average attendacc 314.
Amount of means recieved. $30, 82.
Amount expended 2, 60 on hand $28, 22.
	JULIA P. LINDSAY, Pres. R. S. Stake.
	ELIZABETH COLLINGS.
	MARIE RICH.			Committee.
	ALICE M. RICH, Secretary,
	EMELINE RICH, Treasurer.

RICHFIELD.

	Minutes of the R. S. Quarterly Confer-
ence of Sevier Stake of Zion, held in Rich-
field, Jan. 23 and 24, 1880, Pres. Elizabeth
Bean presiding. Singing. Prayer by Elder
W. H. Segmiller.
	After a few appropriate opening remarks
by Pres. Elizabeth Bean, the Secretary read
the reports from the different wards. The
officers of the stake and wards were then
presented and sustained. The presidents
of the wards gave verbal reports of their re-
spective wards. They reported the aims,
desires, and feelings of the sisters to be
good and in accordance with the direction
and counsel of the Priesthood. Pres. Eliza-
beth Bean expressed her pleasure in listen-
ing to the reports, and felt that we had
great cause for rejoicing and thankfulness.
Exhorted the sisters to press forward in the
cause of right, and to use every effort to do
good and promote the interest of the work
of our Heavenly Father. Bro. W. H. Seg-
miller, of the Presidency of the Stake,
spoke to the sisters; said the influence of
wives and mothers was great, and it should
be used in preparing their families for use-
fulness in society and in the kingdom of
God. Advised mothers to teach their
daughters to choose good company, and to
not associate with rough, profane, intem-
perate  men; and if they would be deter-
mined to have good company, they could
soon command and enjoy it.
	Conference adjourned until two o'clock.
Singing. Benediction.
	2 P. M. Meeting called to order by Pres.
Elizabeth Bean. Singing. Prayer. Sing-
ing. Sisters Washburn, Spencer, Thurber,
Kepler and others of the sisters instructed
and encouraged the congregation. They
spoke of our duties and obligations to our-
selves, each other and God. Referred to
the responsibilities of the mothers of Israel,
and how careful each one should be to teach
her little ones to pray and have faith in
God. Encouraged the presidents of the
Young Ladies' and Primary Associations to
be persevering and diligent, and not let the
interest taken in the meetings slacken, or
die out. Hoped we might all live so that
we could claim the love and protection of
our Heavenly Father.
	Bishops Poulsen and Sellers gave some
excellent advice and instruction, and com-
mended the sisters for their perseverance
and many good works, and prayed God's
blessings to rest on the labors of the Relief
Societies. Meeting adjourned until ten A.
M. Singing. Benediction.
	Saturday, 10 A. M. After the usual open
ing exercises, Pres. Elizabeth Bean made
some excellent remarks on the subject of
home industry, and encouraged the socie-
ties to take hold of this important matte


[Column 1]
and carry it into effect to as great an extent
as was possible. Gave some valuable sug-
gestions in regard to carrying on the differ-
ent branches of industry which were within
reach. Sister Eliza Ogilvie, Pres. of the
Silk Association, spoke in the interest of
silk raising and asked the cooperation of
the sisters to aid her in this matter. Bish-
op Geo. W. Bean spoke for a short time, on
the increase of the evils of intoxication,
profanity and using tobaco. Exhorted the
mothers to bring to bear all the influence
they possibly could, to correct those evils,
and thought by using wisdom, and speaking
a kind word in the right time much good
might be accomplished. A number of the
sisters bore their testimony to the truth of
this work, and felt certain if we would live
up to our duties and privileges we should
be blessed.
	Bro. Lofgreen made a few good remarks
and bore his testimony that the Spirit of
God was in our midst.
	Pres. Bean announced that the Primary
Association would meet in the after-
noon.
	Singing. Benediction.
	2 P. M. After singing and prayer, the
Primary Association was given an hour's
time. The Secretaries called the roll, the
ten commandments were recited by four
little girls, and a recitation given by one
little girl. Instructions were given them
which occupied the rest of the time, and
the meeting was turned over to the Pres.
of the R. S.
	Pres. Elizabeth Bean thanked the con-
gregation for their kind attention. Bore
her testimony to the divinity of plural mar-
riage, and said by depending on the Lord
and relying on him for aid and comfort
she could truly say that this principle was
now no trial to her. Asked God to bless us
all, and help us to live near to Him.
	Coun. W. H. Segmiller arose and said he
had remarked that day at the dinner-table
he believed Sister Bean was a heroine, and
now he knew it, and would prophesy she
should go down to her grave in peace, and
God would bless her declining years with
comfort and plenty. He then spoke briefly
of the terrible inflnence of liquor, tobacco
and profanity, and called a vote asking the
mothers if they would aid him, by every
effort in their power in abolishing the use
of intoxicating drinks and other evils to
which they unanimously responded, yes.
Conference adjourned for three months.
	Singing. Bensdiction.
		CATHARINE A. HUNT, Sec'y.

			LEWISTON, CACH CO.

DEAR SISTER: Our Relief Society here
held its annual meeting the 17th Jan. in
which some changes were made in the
officers, we thought proper to report. The
second counselor, assistant secretary and
treasurer resigned from office. Mrs. Mar-
tha Wiser was appointed second counselor
and Mrs, A. Kaun assistant secretary and
Mrs. Sophia Funk treasurer. The sisters
are trying to do the best they can.
					SUSAN TERRY.

			SPRING CITY.

EDITOR EXPONENT: The third Quarterly
Conference of the Relief Societies of Sanpete
Stake convened at Ephraim City, Feb. 16
1880. The usual opening exercises were
offered. The reports which were read,
showed the sisters were alive to their du-
ties, in looking after lhe poor, and helping

[Column 2]
to forward the work of God. Receipts $74,
65 in cash, and $343,73 in property received
during this quarter, and 135, bush. of wheat
stored away.
	The Presidents who were present reported
their societies as being in a good condition.
The Y. L. M. I. A., and the Primery  As-
sociations  were only partially reported, on
account of much sickness.
A goodly number of sisters and brethren
spoke upon different subjects,but principally
upon our every day life; of being diligent
in small matters, of being punctual, truthful
and charitable, one with another; as it is
these things which will produce love and
union among the people. Some touched
upon the way our enemies are behaving
towards us, wondered how they could ex-
pect the wives, daughters and mothers, to
turn against their husbands, fathers and 
brothers, as they have tried to persuade
them to do.
	Pres. Hyde, urged the people to watch
and guard their integrity for all would be
put to a test some way. Spoke very edify-
ingly upon different subjects.
	Pres. Petersen was away from home, at
the Legislature but his counselor Henry
Beal was present and expressed himself as
being well pleased with the proceedings of 
the sisters. Asked God to bless all the
Presidents and the sisters with them and
the brethren the same, and that the prayers
of the sisters might be answered, that the
sickness might be abated in our midst.
Singing. Benediction. Conference ad-
journed until May 16, 1880.
			FANNY KOFFOD Cor. Sec'y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	SUNSET APACHE CO., ARIZONA
				MARCH 16th,  1880.

EDITOR "WOMAN'S  EXPONENT."  We left
Salt Lake City on our return trip the after-
noon of August 1st., and reached Sunset
Aug. 25th. We were greatly blessed and
prospered on our journey, laid over one day
and half. Feed and water were scarce, but
by driving rapidly we reached each water-
ing place without suffering to either man
or beast, and kept our teams in good con-
dition.
	I am glad to be at home again, although
my relatives are all in the vales of Utah
(that are in the Church). We were called by
the servants of God to come and help
redeem this desert land, and I for one am
contented, and feel willing to live anywhere
or do anything to help build up the king-
dom of God, and establish peace in the
earth. There is a great and glorious work
to be done in this land, we have settled in
the midst of the Lamanites and our actions
are closely watched by them, who, when
they are touched with the Holy Spirit will
become mighty aud valiant men in the
cause of truth and righteousness. The
Elders who are among them are laboring
diligently,and have a great deal of influence
with them.
	I learn by letter from Utah, that there is
considerable sickness among the Saints,and
many are called from this sphere of action
in their youth or the prime of life. It
seems hard to see our friends depart, and
be laid in the silent grave at a time when,
to all appearance they are just entering upon
a long, and useful life. Surely there is a
cause for this. The Lord has said that His
judgments should commence at his house.
If we as Latter-day Saints, would keep the
Commandents He has given us, and live
our most holy religion, there would be no


need for us to be chastened. We are very
much like little children, we have to be
coaxed and plead with day after day, and
when we become too rebellious and stiff-
necked must be chastised. We have be-
fore us the "Word of Wisdom," given to
the Saints and adapted to the capacity of
the weak, and the weakest of all Saints,
who are or can be called Saints. In this
we are promised that if we keep it that we
shall find wisdom and great treasures of
knowledge, that we shall have health and
strength, and the destroying angel shall
pass by us as he did the children of Israel
and not destroy us. Now I would ask, Are
not these promises worth more to us than all
the treasures of this world? And yet we,
poor erring humanity,will not live to obtain
these blessings but to satisfy the cravings of
a depraved appetite, will disregard the laws
of health that are laid down in plainness
and simplcity by the Great Physician, and
adapted to the capacity of the weak and
and the weakest of all Saints, and so we
must abide the penalty of our disobedience,
for we have our own agency,
	We have had quite a cold winter for this
country. The health of the people is gen-
erally good. As ever your Sister in the
Gospel.
				PHEBE A. McNeil.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	DEAR SISTER: The sisters of Tooele Re-
lief Society are trying to do their duty; in
caring for the poor and ministering to the
sick and  striving  to improve  in  all  good
works, and to be united as a band of sisters
and to be coworkers  with  the  brethren in
building up the kingdom  of God  upon  the 
earth.
	There  has  been  considerable  sickness
here this winter,  coughs,  colds and sore
throats have been quite  prevalent, some
children have died most of them with lung
complaints;  a great many people  have been
afflicted  with  inflammatory rheumatism;
but we are  told  "whom  the  Lord  loveth
He  chasteneth,"  therefore  we  must  ac-
knowledge the hand  of  God  in  all  things.
He has said He  will  have  a  tried  people,
and  we have the  promise  that  if  we will
keep his commandments  and do his will  in
all  things and  observe  the  "Word  of Wis-
dom," that the destroyer  shall pass  by  our
doors.  I feel to  exhort  my  brethren and
sisters to remember these  promises  and  to
be humble and prayerful; yea, to attend  to
private devotions for we  cannot  be  Latter-
day Saints without  prayer.  I think through
the observance of  these  duties  our  hearts
will  be  enlarged,  our  minds  enlightened
and  we  will  become  intelligent;  we  must
store our minds  with  knowledge,  so  that
when  we  lay  our bodies  down  and  pass
behind the veil, we shall be able to advance
in the scale of intelligence  and light.
	I pray God  to help us to overcome all our
weakness and  that  He  will  inspire  our
hearts to do his will;  it is no little thing to
be a Saint, but let us try to be saints indeed.
With many good wishes for  the  success of
the EXPONENT,  and  hoping  for  a  bright
future  for Zion;  desiring an interest in the
faith and  prayers  of  my sisters.
							ANN TATE.
Toole,  March 2, 1880.


PROGRAMME OF CONCERT.
	The Primary Association of Farmington
gave a Concert at the Meeting House March
6, 1880, Commencing at 7, o'clock P.M


Prayer,  by  Bishop J. W.  Hess; Opening
Song, "Songs of the heart,"by eight boys and
eight  girls; A welcome by Joseph Robinson;
Song, by S. J. Robinson and  E. Palmer;
Dialogue, The  Hardscrabble meeting, by
ten boys; Song, "Mother I have heard sweet
music," by Lucy and Mamie Robinson;
Recitation, by Hector Haight, entitled "Not
So Easy," Dialogue, The  Flower children,
by fifteen girls and three boys; Song, "Little
shoes and stockings," by Mary Haight and
Clara Leanard; Dialogue, "Great  Lives,"
by  six boys and six girls; Song, "Homeless
To-night," by O. Smith  and  Kate Cotterall;
Dialogue, "Kitty's Funeral," by eight little
girls; Music on the melodeon, by little Miss
Bourne; Song, S. J. Robinson; Dialogue,
"Out of Debt, and Out of Danger," by two
girls and three boys; Speech, by John Clark,
Dialogue, 1776 and 1876,  by Nathalia Miller
and Bell  Vanfleet;  Verse  by  Frank  Hess;
Closing song, by eight boys and eight girls;
Dismissed by prayer by Elder Arthur Stay-
ner.
"The number of  children  that took  part in
the Concert was, 63.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


FEMALE CONQUESTS.

PROGRESS OF THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE CAUSE
			IN AMERICA.

	The advocates of female suffrage have
reason to be gratified at the progress of
their cause. In Boston women are now
allowed to vote for School Directors, and at
the last school election nearly 1000 of them
actually voted for a ticket which was beaten
—showing what perhaps the women had
not appreciated before, that voting does not
always involve electing the ticket voted for.
The New York Legislature has followed
the Boston example and passed a bill not
only allowing women to vote for school Dir-
ectors but to be School Directors themselves,
providing they can persuade a sufficient
number of persons to vote for them to elect
them. In Kentucky widows having child-
ren of school age have the right to vote for
School Directors. This is evidently the
beginning. School Directors are made a
sort of apprenticeship or training school in
which the new suffragans are to be instruct-
ed in the new right before being permitted
that general exercise of it which they hope
will ultimately be accorded them. And
voting is not the only privilege that females
have recently conquered. It seems that
they can be enumerators under the new
Census bill. At all events, the Superinten-
dent "is aware of no reason existing in the
law for regarding women as ineligible for
appointment as enumerators." Each Super-
visor, he says, must judge for himself
whether such appointments would be prac-
tically advantageous in his district. In
some regions they would be highly objec-
tionable; but in others, where women can
do the work as efficiently as men, there is
no reason why they should not be appointed.
In point of fact,several have been appointed
in Kentucky; and it is probable that among
the several thousand enumerators who
will do the subsantial work of the census of
the present year a considerable proportion
will be women:—St. Louis Republican.


WHEN a true genius appears in the world,
you may know him by this sign; all the
dunces are in confederancy against him.
	HOUSEKEEPING.—Let no one call house-
keeping a menial occupation, neither sup-
pose that no ability is needed to carry it on.


When it comes to be considered how much
is to be embraced under the general term
"housekeeping," used in its best and full
sense, it is plain to be seen that there is an
ample field for the exercise of the most ex-
tended and enlightened education. Book-
learning is not wasted; there is every day
occasion for its use, and the more readily
and intelligently artistic and scientific
knowledge is applied in domestic affairs,
the more easily the work is accomplished,
and the more pleasure is given in its results
to all who are participants therein.
	HARSH EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM.—What
Anselm of Conterbury, at the end of the
eleventh century, said against the rigid
monastic discipline is admirable. An abbot
complained, in conversation with him, of
the incorrigible youths who would not be
amended by all the correction he adminis-
tered. Anselm replied,—
	"You never cease beating the boys, and
what sort of men will they be when they
grow up?"
	"Stupid and brutish," answered the
abbot.
	"A good sign for your method of educa-
tion," said Anselm, "when you educate
men into brutes."
	The abbot answered,—
	"Is it our fault? We try to compel them
in all manner of ways to be better, and yet
we effect nothing."
	"You compel them!" said Anselm. "Tell
me, then, I pray you, if you planted a tree
in your garden and enclosed it on all sides,
so that it could not spread its branches in
any direction, and after some years trans-
plant it in an open space, what kind of a
tree would it have become? Certainly a use-
less one' with crooked, tangled branches.
And whose fault would it be but your fault,
who trained the tree in this over-compul-
sory manner?"


THE "Indianapolis Journal" says "The
admission of women to politics has become
a necessity."
	Dr. Mary J Safford of Boston, a lady of
fine education and brilliant attainments
lectured recently in that city on the subject
of "Elements of Success in Life." "That
life is successful," she said, "in which a
true a noble character is built up." She
urged the importance of special work, of
order, health, cleanliness, promptness, suit-
able dress and other elements as valuable
requisites to success.
	THE first ingredient in conversation, is
truth; the next, good sense; the third,
good humor; the fourth, wit.—Sir W.
Temple.


Dr. A.  B. DUNFORD,
	DENTIST.
		SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
			to Filling and Preserving the
		Natural teeth. Tee[--] Carefully
		Extracted, FALSE TEETH inserted
		from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
		most approved Manner.	PRICES
		to Suit the Times and First Class
		Work Guaranteed
OFFICE. — MAIN ST.,  OPPOSITE  SALT  LAKE HOUSE.
				P. O. BOX' 541

	NEW SPRING STOCK
    F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods,  Embroideries, Ruch
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings,  Ladies
Ties, Cu[-]f anCollars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions
boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
goods.  Etc., Etc.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell and Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
		AGENT FOR
    RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
   PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stairs, in Old  Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south  side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE  AND EAR

		A LARGE  STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT-
	LER, Agent of the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-Made
	Blankets,		Brown Yarn,		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
	Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
	Linseys,		Cassimeres,		Washboards,
	Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, &c.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17  East Temple Street.
		MRS. C.  E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest  and  most  stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers,  P[-]ushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest  shades and stripes country dealers,
please call.  Ladies' Hair work in all its branches.  Good
work guaranteed.

	Z.		C.		M.		I.
	 Wholesale and Retail Dealing
		    in all kinds of
DRY GOODS,  NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
    HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
  AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

A T  TEASDEL's
SALT LAKE CITY
Special departments  for  Gent's clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and  Children's  Shoes,
Dry  Goods,  Shawls  and  Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS  of all  CLASES WANTED.
	S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE
	Ladies are requested to  call  and  examine  the most
complete  assortment  of  Curls,  Braids,  Switches,  Etc.
at Reduced Prices
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
    Salt Lake City.					97 Kimball Block.

    HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR  SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at onece, and  examine  the New
	Ideas in  Sewing  Machine  Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any  noise and confu-
sion, although the  rate of  speed  is  very high.  Its self-
setting and self threading h[--]te, and absence of springs
and [---]s renders it both simple and durable.  Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor  Sewing  Machine  Co.,  Chicago, Ill.
	O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
		     FURNITURE
    SPRING BEDS WIRE MATTRESSES.
		Feathers Wall Paper
			 AND
		ABY CARRIAGES.
     75, 77, & 79 Fir st. South St.S.L. C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

