Second Prize Story
A Place In The Picture

Are mothers really afraid of their teenagers? I asked my inner-self as I listened to the exposed motor in Dave's stripped-down car-version roar his exit to school. That was what a psychologist had said at the PTA lecture last night. It was true I had stood silently by as Dave skipped breakfast again and brushed past me in ragged jeans, over-run desert boots, and a clean, but grease-stained T-shirt; knowing full well he had a math test and that an empty stomach produced low blood sugar detrimental to clear thinking. If he had to dress that way, I thought with indignation, it might make some sense.

I sighed and started clearing the breakfast dishes. Scraping out good food had always been against my conservative nature and I Sara Brown Neilson automatically picked up a fork to salvage some of the highly nutritious, almost cold food that I had hopefully prepared for Dave. I wasn't fond of scrambled eggs, but choked it down, thinking of the garbage-disposal alternative. Why hadn't I made him get up earlier so he could eat? Why hadn't I insisted he wear some of the respectable clothes that bulged his closet, and done something about the straggling hair, sloppy posture, and weird new philosophies he was analyzing?

Could that psychologist possibly be right? Maybe, with all the talk of generation-gap and youth-rebellion, I was afraid to take a stand. 
 

Thinking through problems had always been part of washing the breakfast dishes, while my mind was still rested and fresh, but this morning even motion seemed distracting. I sank onto a kitchen chair, cupped my chin in the palm of my hand, and stared unseeing out the window. Painfully and with care I began a review of my relationship with Dave to see just what my place was in his picture.

Scrutinizing his activities, attitudes, and reactions, left me with the shocking realization that I really didn't have a place—I just didn't count! Sure, I washed clothes, prepared meals, took telephone messages, and cleaned his room, but any stranger could do that. And my concerned love in doing it didn't count for much, since he wasn't even aware it existed.

A hollow wave of longing left me reminiscing the place of honor I used to hold in his life—the main reason for most of the things he did—telling the truth, eating his carrots, swallowing his medicine—all to please Mom. Now he went into a detailed analysis of the scientific, psychological value of truth-telling when I mentioned it, refused to consume even one carrot, and decided for himself if the medicine I prescribed was necessary.

Desperately I groped for the memories of a long-ago picnic, when we had strolled leisurely through the woods discovering gold-flecked stones, shed snakeskins, or an injured bird to fix; and for the precious hours spent together on rainy days when we had molded clay into funny animals or built houses from diced potatoes and toothpicks. I ached for the satisfaction I had felt in teaching him patriotism and honor while we made soldier hats and three-dimensional stars for the neighborhood parade.

Of course, my place of importance had started shrinking to make room for sports with Dad, outings with the scoutmaster, practicing with his guitar teacher and goofing around with his friends. And I had been willing, even anxious, for each new experience in his growth. But, did I have to become a nonentity? Couldn't I fit in some place? Where had I lost out?

A glance at the clock spurred me to action and I continued analyzing to the accompaniment of running water and clinking dishes. Stabs of self-pity needled me as I reviewed Dave's present efforts to please everyone else—fix the tape recorder for a friend, sell tickets for a counselor, wash cars for the club. No longer did it matter what Mom thought, or felt, or needed. My influence was gone.

"No, Mr. Psychologist," I said aloud to the draining dish water, "this mother isn't afraid of her teenager; she just doesn't exist in his life—except for maid service, that is!"

My day went with the usual housewife routines, and I was just finishing a batch of cookies when a roar sounded in the driveway. Dave shuffled in depositing a few mud clods along the way and sprinkling fresh sawdust from the cuffs of his pants. It was obvious he had stayed after school for a track work-out to please the coach. Dropping his books on the table, he slouched down on a chair and started munching one of the still warm cookies that were spread out in front of him to cool.

How many times had I asked him to clean his feet and shake his cuffs after a work-out?

He knew the table wasn't for books—after all I had provided him with a nice desk. He could see it was nearly dinnertime and knew late nibbling irritated me. Then, there were the two freshly ironed shirts I had found in a heap on his bed, apparently discarded in favor of the grease-stained 'T-shirt. I bore my resentments in silence. "Hey, Mom, did you ever return that stuff I borrowed from Craig?" he muttered between chews. "No, kinda thought you would take care of it," I said, knowing full well it would be left for me. There just hadn't been time from my maid service to do it, I thought bitterly, but I had certainly stumbled over it enough times! Still heaped in his room was the unpacked gear he had used on a week's fishing trip down the Snake River before school started. That had been a full two weeks ago and I was still trying to outwait him. I hated being reminded of the trip because it had terrified me. Knowing the dangers of Snake River, with its swift currents, unannounced falls, and sharp rocks, gave me sleep-shattering nightmares of black, rushing waters swallowing him up, canoe and all. "Boys have to live with some danger," his father had gently reminded me, "that's part of growing up. He's a good swimmer and will wear a life-jacket for extra protection." My fears were smothered back in muteness, knowing it didn't matter what I thought, anyway. The sleepless nights persisted, however, and I had even considered resorting to tranquilizers. Instead I took up night nibbling to ease the sickening fear-waves in my stomach, and gained back the five pounds I had struggled to lose. My face showed signs of wear and strain, in spite of the additional weight, and the week he was gone seemed endless. When we unexpectedly heard his familiar voice in the driveway a night earlier than scheduled, the blessed relief left me with a mad urge to rush outside and smother him with kisses. Knowing his distaste for emotional demonstration, I forced myself to follow nonchalantly behind his father and greet him with a casual peck on the cheek. "Hi, we've missed you; how was the trip?" "Groovy, Mom. That river is something else! Can't say as how I wish we were just leaving, though, it wasn't exactly easy don't think [ll get up for a month... Good 'ole shower here I come!" He had disappeared around the corner and I knew I'd had it. That was all—the only report I would get of a whole trip. He looked thin and parched and I longed to comfort him. He must have lost pounds! I followed him into the house and automatically turned to the refrigerator.

Looking at him now, the picture of health munching on a cookie, I decided he had recuperated completely. A brief knock turned our attention to the back door. Craig had already stuck his head inside. "Anybody home?" "Come on in," Dave invited, "Tl bet you're after a fishing reel, hunting knife, and mess kit! Just thought maybe I could stall around until you came." "That's what I figured, and I hated letting you get the best of me, but my uncle is in town and wants the stuff to go fishing." | | Dave wiped his mouth on his sleeve and pushed back the chair. "Have some cookies while I go unload my pack and find it. They're great while they're still warm." I smiled my approval and indicated a chair at the table. "How about some milk with them?" "Don't mind if I do thanks, they smell great!" I poured the milk and then picked up a potato to peel.

"Hey, that was really a close one Dave had, wasn't it?" Craig said, taking a big swallow. "Guess you feel pretty lucky he's even here." I looked at him curiously. "Close one?" "You mean he didn't even tell you about that hairy ordeal on the river? What a jerk! Just like me, though, hate to make a big deal out of anything."

A chill gripped me! So, the nightmares hadn't been unfounded. "What happened?" I asked struggling for composure.

"Well, it was sure sweaty! I still get shook up when I think about it! We were going down the river in a swift current—you know—really swift—when we hit some rapids. It was pretty rough and a kid's canoe turned over in the banging around. He tried to grab onto a rock, but the rushing water took him on over the falls. When we could see he was having a struggle, Dave worked his way down and went in after him. [ll tell you, that took guts the rest of us were afraid! Well, anyway, pretty soon the kid made it to the bank with the help of his lifejacket, but, golly, Dave was no place to be seen. His life-jacket had been ripped off by the sharp rocks and the falling water kept forcing him under!"

I dug deep into the potato and gripped it tighter. "How long was he down there?" "Seemed forever to us, I'll tell you! We started going in to look for him, but the water was so swift it smashed us on the rocks and we had to pull out in a few seconds."

He took another swallow of milk and I could feel the thump of my pounding heart. "Well, anyway, as you've probably guessed, he didn't drown. One of us finally spotted him going downstream and rushed out to get him. We could hardly believe our eyes! And you know what? I guess you're the one that really saved his life."

By this time I had forgotten my reserve and was hovering over him eagerly searching his face. "What do you mean?" He shifted his weight uneasily, conscious of my nearness.

"Well... A when the falling water kept pushing him back under he was getting desperate and almost out of air. He made another try and still another, until his breath was all gone and things started going black. He was scared, really scared, you know, thinking it was the end and all, but right then—it was funny, he said he heard your voice from when he was just a little kid, telling him never to give up—that the time to fight hardest is when you think you're licked. So he made one more desperate lunge and came up just clear of the falls!"

My hands were damp and I could feel perspiration dotting my forehead as Dave appeared in the doorway with the borrowed things. Seeming to sense the impact of the moment, he hesitated, appraising the situation. Then he looked deep into my misty eyes and gradually I felt a bond of understanding warmth flow between us—the stirring of a realization that our lives were deeply entwined with the years of learning and sharing.

The petty slights, my desires for attention, and the daily irritations had dulled my sensitivity to his true worth and goodness.

I was housing a precious soul under this roof—a boy who, in the midst of conflict, frustration, and varied forces, was emerging in his own way with courage, solid values, and a strong regard for my teachings—a boy whose very life I had played a part in saving! Craig gave Dave a punch in the ribs and opened the door to leave. "Next time I'll outwait you!" "Don't count on it," Dave called after him and then slouched back down on the chair to reach for another cookie. I handed him the warmest one I could find and picked up his books to carry to the desk. On the way, I patted the top of his head. So there were a few mud clods on the floor, and a couple of shirts to be pressed... What were mothers for, anyway? SARA BROWN NEILSON (author of "A Place in the Picture,"