Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" A NEW GRANARY AND HALL: A substantial and commodious granary has recently been erected by the Beaver Relief Society, which will enable them to continue the good work of gathering and storing grain for many years to come without being cramped for storage room. The building is of a beautiful magnesium rock and is about fifty feet long by twenty feet wide and a sixteen foot ceiling, and is divided into two rooms.... Last year the wheat was transferred from the old building, the grist mill and other places where the Society had been under the necessity of storing it, to the new granary, approximately one thousand bushels.... —Mary F. White, Sec. QUEEN MARGHERITA: Queen Margherita of Italy has made herself responsible for the execution of a plan to build an observatory on the summit of Monte Rosa, at a height of 4,560 meters. The work on it has already been begun. The queen, who is an enthusiastic mountaineer, is in the habit of spending several weeks each year at the summit of Monte Rosa. 'The observatory will be higher than that on Mount Blanc, and the highest in Europe. —News Note THE YOUNGER GENERATION: We must all recognize the importance of the adhesion to any work of those whose powers are fresh and unworn, and whose share of life will probably stretch through the coming years long after the grass grows green over the graves where the holders of the place and power of today will be silent and impotent for further service. There is a charm in the springtime of life that we all feel and own. Especially is this true of public work. 'Tenderly do we regard the young people who seem ready to lend their growing strength to the causes and efforts that we have carried on for long years — to catch up the banner that we feel must drop from our wearied grasp, and who do not fear to at once take their course, though it be up the Hill Difficulty. —Fditorial -THE SOUVENIRS Oftimes have we been welcomed Into your pleasant home, Where rays of lovely sunshine Upon our hearts would come. You've been kind unto the orphan, You've clothed and fed the poor, And for your acts of kindness God bless you evermore. —Nancy Allred AN INTERESTING PARTY: At the elegant residence of Mrs. Priscilla Jennings on Thursday February 10, there was a delightful gathering of old friends and acquaintances. The presence of Presidents Woodruff, George QO. Cannon and Lorenzo Snow gave an inspiration to the party and added greatly to the spiritual enjoyment. President Woodruff spoke a few minutes.... His words were full of intense feeling and were as a warning voice to all Israel to take heed to counsel and cherish the gospel as revealed in the latter days. —News Note Page 172 OMEN control well over sixty per cent of the personal expenditures of money in the United States. There are 4,455,000 women stockholders in our country. 'They considerably outnumber men_ as shareholders in many large corporations—the United States Steel for one. 'Their holdings are valued at one hundred billion dollars. 'They have another fifty-five billion in savings accounts and _ thirty-three billion in Government bonds. RS. ALMA GOLDSTEIN, a microbiologist with Abbot Laboratories, is credited with the discovery of a new antibiotic, ristocetin, which has proved almost one hundred per cent effective in treating bacterial endocarditis, an infectious inflammation of the heart which almost invariably used to kill its victims. Mrs. Goldstein isolated the drug from a sample of soil which came from the Garden of the Gods in Colorado. MRs MARGARET SPANTON, twenty-eight-year-old woman, does a thriving business selling on commission used industrial equipment—iso-ton cranes for instance. Finding the desired product may require two or three months' searching in various parts of the country.