IF THE THUMB IS GREEN fore one goes to the nursery to buy seeds and shrubs. Many common mistakes may be avoided, such as planting shade-loving varieties in sunny spots, or the reverse. Incidentally, your nurseryman is a friend to whom you should bring your preseason garden problems. He is in a position to give you helpful advice regarding best varieties to plant in your particular climate and altitude, as well as tips on fertilizers and pesticides. A garden should yield bountifully and to do so good soil is required. If the quality of a garden soil is subject to suspicion, a soil analysis of a sample sent to your state agricultural college will reveal its deficiencies and suggest the proper fertilizers needed. 'This is a measure that should be done before, not during the planting or growing season. 'There is nothing more discouraging than to invest good seed, time, and backaches into a garden that was doomed by poor soil before it was started. A garden should never be so large that its care becomes a burden. Or as someone has stated, "No garden should be too big for your wife to handle." Many a zealous gardener has started out with the idea of making his garden a hobby, a 183 place where he could putter around evenings, only to find himself ending up as a Slave to a too ambitious project. This brings up the subject of tools. Most good gardeners are cranks about their tools — such as takes, hoes, trowcls, spades, and cultivators. They buy the best, keep them sharp and in careful repair. Many have a special shed or a section of a shed where they keep their tools under cover and go over them carefully during the winter to insure that they will be in best of shape for spring. A set of garden tools, if well taken care of, will last for many years of most exacting Service. But just what is the charm of a garden? What is the mystic hold it wields over a man or a woman? As winter wanes and the promise of spring is in the air, these are fair questions to ask ourselves. 'There is a fair answer to be found in that seed catalogue that came through the mail the other day. 'There is an answer in that bit of soil beside the house that cries for a bed of gay flowers, the plot of ground yearning to supply your table with really fresh vegetables and strawberries all summer. 'There is even an answer in a window box. Ubban Spring Alice Morrey Bailey After the winter's smoke-black snow The neighbors come out from their walled-in heat And curry the landscape with rake and hoe While last summer's friendships again repeat. And here are their houses, row on row, With each tiny crocus cement-walk neat, And all of the little square lawns that go With uniform greenness down to the street.