You Can Sew—Cutting Jean Ridges Jennings EWING at home, making S clothes for the family, is a most desirable accomplishment. 'The "sew-it-yourself" phase of the "do-it-yourself" craze has taken hold everywhere. Never before have fabrics been so attractive and varied. Well-planned and well-made equipment for every possible need is abundant. Sewing does not need to be a task if you go about it in the right way. With careful planning and the use of proper techniques you will find that it can actually be a pleasure. More and more the trend in home sewing is for methods that will save time and motion. One of the most discouraging aspects for amateurs has always been that it is so time-consuming. Many women shy away from making their own clothes because it takes too long. Any ideas for saving precious minutes are always needed and welcomed. Don't rush. 'Take your time and plan well so that you won't be in a hurry to fimsh. Slow work gives better results than too fast work. Don't sew when you don't feel like it. The series of discussions that will follow in this issue and in the next few months is designed to give some helpful hints on sewing techniques with the purpose of making this kind of work easier, quicker, and more fun. CUTTING Or prime importance in making any successful garment is getting off to a good start. Without Page 184 a good beginning, there may be difficulty all the way. Many a dress failure is made before the dress is cut. 'Trouble starts as soon as the work starts because of the failure to alter the pattern properly before cutting the material. Dressmaking can be much simpler and the results more satisfactory when you "cut to fit" instead of leaving all the fitting to be done after you begin to put the garment together. Dress patterns are sized according to bust measure, but not all figures with a given bust size have the same over-all proportions. So it becomes necessary to adjust each pattern to conform to the individual figure. A very excellent way to know how your pattern is going to measure up is to first select one of your dresses that fits you as you wish to have your clothes fit. 'Then, with the dress flat on the table, measure it and compare these measurements with those of your pattern. Commercial patterns give instructions showing where pattern changes should be made for each piece. It is wise to study these instructions and make your adjustments accordingly. In doing this, an important point to watch is the grain-line of the material. Alterations must not disturb the lines indicating the straight grain. Prepare a chart with your figure measurements and also corresponding pattern measurements. Compare the two and note the changes to be made. 'Then make your alterations before any cutting is done. YOU CAN SEW Before attempting to cut out any fabric, be sure it is properly prepared. It should be pre-shrunk, grain-straight, and pressed free of wrinkles. Unless this is done, there is always the chance that an offgrain will result in a poorly fitting garment. When all steps mentioned above have been taken, you are ready to lay your pattern on the material preparatory to cutting. Following are important points to be noted at this point in your dressmaking venture: 1. Select the correct cutting diagram for size, pattern, and width of material, as shown on the pattern instruction sheet. Mark it plainly so it can be referred to easily. If you are not experienced, it is better to follow it exactly. 2. Sort out pattern pieces and put away all that will not be used for the style you have chosen. This will help eliminate confusion. 3. When fabric is cut double, fold the right side to the inside. 'This helps keep material clean and the pieces will be cut ready for marking and ready construction. If pieces are to be cut singly, be sure the right side of the material is facing up and that the pattern is also right side up. When sections, such as sleeves, are to be cut twice, but have to be cut singly, be sure the pattern is turned over for the second piece. In this way, there will be one for each side instead of having both for the same arm. 4. Printed on each pattern piece is a heavy arrow marked Place on straight of farbic. It is absolutely essential that this line follow the weave of the cloth exactly, if the garment is to hang correctly. 'here must always be absolute accuracy on this point. Measure with a ruler or tape measure from each end of this arrow to the selvage of the material and adjust so that distances are the same. Place pins at arrow points to hold in place and then pin the remainder of the pattern piece to the fabric. 185 5. Some of the pattern pieces will be marked to cut on a fold of the material. The skirt back, for example, may say Center Back—place line on fold. Be sure of perfect accuracy in placing such pieces, turning the excess margin of the pattern under and placing the folded edge to the fold of the cloth. 6. When materials such as corduroy, velvet, or velveteen, which have a definite up and down, are used, it is necessary that all pattern pieces are turned in the same direction. 'That is, the top of each section must be toward the same end of the fabric. The same care must be taken when cutting printed fabrics whose design has an up and down. 7. In using materials which have a design, such as in stripes or plaids, that are spaced at regular intervals, it is quite important to have the designs match where sections are sewed together. In order to be sure of this, care must be taken at the time cutting is done to place the pattern properly. Be sure that notches which come together as seams are sewed are placed at the same place on a stripe or design. Sometimes matching designs in dress construction results in some waste of material. So it may be necessary to buy extra fabric if plaids or stripes are used. 8. Place large sections of the pattern on the material first, and then fit the smaller pieces in around them. This will result in greater economy of time and cloth. G. Plan the entire pattern lay-out before any cutting is done. Be sure you have a place for every pattern piece. Many times the first time pieces are placed on the material, there does not seem to be enough cloth to do the job. However, with careful re-arrangement, pieces may fall into place satisfactorily. Never cut anything until your plan is complete. 10. Last, but by no means least, be as economical as possible in your cutting. Don't waste material. Place pattern pieces on the cloth in such a way that leftover fabric is in as large pieces as possible. You never know when you may need or want a sizeable piece for remodeling or repair at some later date, and you'll be glad you were careful. Mellie Porter Workman lakes Beautiful Gifts HE hobbies of Nellie Porter Workman, of Salt Lake City, Utah, have brought warmth to hearts in scores of homes and have enriched her own life with the gratitude of friends and relatives. Among the treasured gifts are crocheted, netted, and tatted doilies; chair sets and dresser sets; crocheted layette sets, consisting of sweaters hood, and bootees. She has made sweaters, gloves, aprons, and many other articles of exquisite handwork. Earlier in her life, when she was left a widow with eight children, she used her handwork skills and her teaching ability to make a living for her children. She is now confined to a wheelchair and has not walked for twenty-two years, and yet she is busy and contented, always cheerful and optimistic, continually thinking of others and making gifts for them. She devotes much time to genealogy work and teaches the literature lessons in Relief Society. Mrs. Workman is the mother of nine children, including an adopted daughter. She has thirty-three grandchildren and seventeen great-grandchildren. Her cheerfulness and courage are an inspiration to all her relatives and friends. —_-~ Gdeals Grace Ingles Frost Without ideals, life loses much of meaning. Ideals are stars that hearten us to strive; They light the way for more transcendent gleaning, And keep ambition's ambient flame alive. Page 186