[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: ST. JOHN’S STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

ST. JOHN’S STAKE.
Editor EXPONENT:
	Conference of the Relief Society of the
St. Johns Stake of Zion was held at St.
Johns Sept. 3rd, 1892. On the stand were
the Presidency of the Stake, Pres. of the
R. S. of the Stake, Counselor and several
leading sisters. After the usual opening
exercises, reports of the wards and Stake
were read, officers of the Central Board,
Stake and wards were presented and sus-
tained unanimously.
	Counselor Frances White addressed the
assembly briefly, bearing testimony of the
truth of the Gospel.
	Pres. E. L. S. Udall expressed herself
as well pleased, during her recent visit to
the Relief Society branches of the Stake at
the hearty welcome she received and the
good spirit manifest among the sisters, al-
though the meetings generally are not as
well attended as they should be.
	Read a circular letter from the EXPONENT
to secretaries requesting them to send re-
ports of the Relief Society Jubilee to Sister
E. B. Wells
	Sister Phoebe A. Mc’Neil spoke of the
necessity of an established confidence be-
tween parents and children.
	Sister Mary E. B. Farr spoke of the
blessings of the Gospel which are predicted
upon obedience to its principles.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Pres. D. K. Udall read from the Doctrine
and Covenants a portion of a revelation to
the Prophet Joseph Smith in regard to the
eternity of the marriage covenant and said:
"Husbands and wives should exercise
patience and charity with each other for
God has promised us kingdoms, principal-
ities and powers if we are faithful to Him
and each other, even that we shall be kings
and queens, in our Fathers kingdom.
	In regard to the use of tobacco he said:
“It is not good for man.” It is contrary to
the Word of Wisdom and impregnates the
system with evil. Spoke strongly against
its use.
	The congregation sang “The spirit of
God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
was pronounced by Pres. Wm. Gibbons.
				MARY E. B. FARR, Sec.


