[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: W. S. A. SPRINGV1LLE. | Author: Unknown]

W. S. A. SPRINGV1LLE.

	A MEETING of the Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion held in the Springville meeting house, Sept.
22, 1892. President S. A. Boyer in the chair.
Singing “Come, come away.” Prayer by Mrs.
Straw. Minutes read and approved. President
Boyer said, “We have met to hear and study the
Politcal Status of women, the women of America
are free in every sense except before the law.
Wished to hear from the Ter. Pres., Sarah M.
Kimball. Mrs. Kimball said her presence here
showed her feelings; did not believe in ignorant
votes, thought men were not posted as they
should be. The business of today is for women
to educate themselyes so as when they have the
ballot they may be able to vote for the best good
for the town or city in which they live, for the
Nation, and for the best good for the greatest
number, that all should be able to vote for the
best good of the many. The ideas of the best
and broadest-minded men of today, are that wo-
men should be recognized in politics. As for the
World’s Fair, we should not prepare our costume
or wardrobe, but wait until we see what is de-
cided by the Committee appointed on Dress Re-
form, and if accepted wear it, that is for those
that wish to. She honored those men that upheld
the Constitution in believing all to be free and
equal before the law, and they would be honored
in the future. 
	Mrs. Emily Richards said men and particularly
men reporters scared her, spoke of suffrage being
such a hard name, encouraged women to try and
fit themselves so as to be true companions for
their husbands, would like to see every woman
come here as intelligent beings ready to receive
the ballot, that we should prepare ourselves to
join hands with the women of the world and be
honorably noted as women of Utah. We are an
organized body and should go ahead and work
systematically and on a basis with men, prepare
yourselves for the ballot and you will get it. If
the simple fact of going to the polls and voting is
so degrading, go and help purify them. If wo-
men, as they do, have to earn their own living,
educate them that they may earn it in the most
respectable and beneficial way. Did not believe
in neglecting duties at home, but we forget that
all women do not have homes and families, when
we have it is the family first and then all else, we
can. Turn our social entertainments into some
kind of meeting to instruct ourselves. She urged
all to go to the World’s Fair that could. Was
very well pleased with the organization in Spring-
ville. 
	Song by Miss Nellie Holley, “The Bridge."
Ex-Mayor Booth of Provo, said, President, wo-
men and men.: His impression was, there was a
great deal expected of him but was afraid they
would get disappointed, did not remember when
he was converted to suffrage, but it was before he
ever heard of it, always believed it, and always
advocated it. In April 1882 a state convention
was held in Salt Lake, some of the ladies did ex-
cellent work in committees, thought women
would do much better work now because they
were better posted; believed good results would
come from harmony in Politics as well as the
home. That in 1847 the first laws of Utah
were participated in by woman, and that the wo-
men of Utah were the pioneers in this move of
Suffrage. Thanked the women for saving the
whole Territory from being disfranchised,through
their influence. The true make up of man is
physical, mental, and spiritual. That women are
spiritually man’s superior, that men always excel
in all higher callings, but there are more good


[Column 1]
﻿women. Take well balanced men or women and
they will never slop over and what is so of an in-
dividual is so of a community, and in order to be
well balanced we must cultivate, wherever we
are deficient.
	During the time women voted in Utah, he
never saw any disorderly conduct at the polls,
that of itself is worth thinking of.  The ballot is a
right that all should demand.  It is a right not a
privilege.  When women have this right it will
tend to purge the ballot of its wicked and corrupt
ways.  Believed among the first things granted
would be the right of Suffrage to women. Strike 
out the word "Male" the same as the word
"White" in 1862.  My vote is my property and I
believe in voting as I please and to the best of my
knowledge.  Educate yourselves that you may
know independently of what your husband or 
brother does or says?  not only yourselves but 
your family.  If only one can be educated let it
be the daughters, and they will in turn educate
their families.  Believed in taking an interest in
the World's Fair, also in Dress Reform.  Woman
should not get overturned, but educate in all
things necessary for filling both places, and she
should have a right to control her property and
also her person, that men will have to educate
themselves as well as women on different points.
Trusting all would be interested in this, as a jus
cause.
	Mrs. Kimball was under the impression, if
Bishop Booth would speak it would inspire her
to speak, that this right of Suffrage was going to
be felt more and more in the world.  By and by,
women, through their tact, will do something
but they must be more liberal.  As a class wo-
men are so penurious, that they will give nothing
to help the cause, men will give willingly to help
theirs.  Was pleased with the Association in 
Springville and was pleased to be present, and
each individual could help to make it what it
should be, also said marriage, too often ended
woman's life and education.
	W. H. Kelsey said, this is a great and grand
work, started to ameliorate the sufferings of
humanity, said the first hospital was reared under
the direction and presence of Isabella the
Spanish Queen, spoke of the great good women
had done, and they do not receive one tenth part
the credit that is due them.  Garabaldi's wife
followed him through all the changing scenes
that that remarkable man went through, and in
their days of adversity she used her red skirt and
her white bed spread or counter-pane, and made
a flag which Garabaldi used on his victorious
marches resulting in the Emancipation of the
fair land Italy.  While great honor is due him
surely some credit is due his wife. So far as the
Suffrage is concerned with the stroke of the pen
of Abraham Lincoln, eight millions of the colored
race received their emancipation. The male
portion of which had, over 21 years of age, the
full privilege of political suffrage, no difference if
they can neither read nor write, while double the
number of the Anglo-Saxon race, forming a great
part of this nation, were denied the ballot be-
cause of being females. Speaking of women the
speaker stated, the Almighty in placing us upon 
this earth designed us to be equal, not in the
ascendency, but equal, nothing more.  Women
have brought about many reforms but have re-
ceived little credit for it. Spoke of John
Bunyon's "Pilgrims Progress" a work nearly as
extensively read as the Bible, and that to a great
extent was produced through the sacrifice and
industry of his wife that lived during his impri-
sonment of twelve years.  He also mentioned the
services of Florence Nightingale during the
Crimean war, and also the mother of Napoleon,
how she followed her husband on the battle field
against the French forces, but a short time before
the birth of that great General Napoleon.
	Regreted that all our ladies did not emulate

[Column 2]
our President Mrs. Boyer in becoming better
educated in Civil Government.  A lady who in
connection with her husband can run a business
and raise a family and find time to study Civil
Government and Parliamentary Rules, deserves
great credit. Trusted he would always have a 
kind word for the Suffrage Ladies.
	Mrs. Bullock said when she heard such speak-
ers it enthused her, did not feel to take up the
time, but wanted her political freedom.
	D. C. Johnson felt as though there had been
enough said, had been a suffragist all his lfie,
never could see why a woman was not his or any
other man's equal before the law.  It is an ele-
vation not a degradation to vote, Do you find
any suffragist suffering as the great men who
first spoke in behalf of the colored race?  No.
Women do not be discouraged, in ten years from
this day women throughout the United States,
will have the right of the ballot.
	The President trusted that the benefits of the
day will tend to bring all those interested in the
common welfare of women to the front.  Singing.
Prayer by Mrs. Lapish of american Fork.
	E. J. HAYWOOD, Sec.
	EVENING'S ENTERTIANMENT.
	The parlors of the Boyer House at Springville
were filled with guests the evening after the
day's celebration and a most sociable time of en-
joyment was participated in.  There were present
from Salt Lake City, Sarah M. Kimball Ter..
Pres., Emily S. Richards Vice Pres. W. S. A. and
President of the Utah World's Fair Commission
and Carrie E. Dye also Vice Pres. W. S. A.,
Electa Bullock of Provo, Pres. Utah Co., W. S. A.
and Hannah Lapish, Pres American Fork W.
S. A. Other ladies and gentlemen from Provo
and civinity were among the invited guests.
There were speeches, songs, recitations and
music interspersed and at 10 p. m the guests
were seated in the dining room where an elabor-
ate dinner was served.  Under each plate was a 
bouquet of yellow flowers (the suffrage color)
which were worn the remainder of the evening.
The conversation was animated and merry even,
and all were delighted with the arrangements
and success of the whole affair. The hostess Mrs.
S. A. Boyer who is also the Pres. of Springville
W. S. A. was heartily applauded for making
everything so pleasant and gratifying, and her
husband also came in for a full share in the
honors.  Altogether it was an event long to be
remembered by all who had the good fortune to
be among the happy number, and those who were
not present will certainly regret the ill-luck that
prevented their attendance.


