[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: FAGALII, UPOLU, SAMOA, | Author: Unknown]

		FAGALII, UPOLU, SAMOA,
							Sept. 11, 1892.
Dear EXPONENT Readers:
	As I sit here on this quiet Sabbath day and
listen to the splash and roar of the ocean waves,
my mind involuntarily reverts to a few brief
months ago and in fancy I find myself in one of
your cozy parlors, and would like to tell you
something abont the strange land and curious
people I have seen since leaving Our Valley
Home.
	Sister Hilton and I live together in a comfort-
able little cottage in the village of Fagalii.
	This village—this cottage is the mission home
and usually President Browning and one or two
other elders are there, while the rest of the
brethren are dispersed over the islands in pairs
and live with the natives in their rude peculiar
huts, sleeping on mats spread on the ground, and
eating food which I don't think you would con-
sider at all tempting could you see it when spread
out ready to partake of.
	We have only two church members among the
natives of Fagalii; both women who have em-
braced the Gospel recently and seem to be very
sincere in their convictions. Besides these there
are a number who are very friendly and may join
us in the good cause ere long.
	We visit our friends often and although we are
unable to say much to them, they are ever
pleased to see us and show their love by trying
to make us as comfortable as is possible. Let
me describe one of those visits to you. It oc-
curred a few weeks ago when Sister Fetoai had
been ill for a few days and was hardly yet able to
sit up. She and another old lady were the only
occupants of the house and as they saw Sister
H. and I approaching Fetoai sat up on her mat-
bed and hurriedly put on her mother hubbard
that she might be ready to receive us. We had
learned to walk slowly on nearing a house so as
to give the people time to dress, so we found our
friend looking tidy enough in her calico wrapper
when we entered. A clean mat was spread for
us to sit on, which we accepted and though find-
ing it somewhat difficult tried to sit Samoan
fashion. We inquired about our sister's health
in a few words which had been taught us before
leaving home and which we had been repeating
to ourselves on the way, and when she told us
she was "malolo," we did not know whether she
was better or worse until we went home and got
the interpretation of the word.
	Our stock of words being now exhausted we
remained silent, while a conversation was carried
on between the two women the import of which
we soon guessed, for they began to hunt some-
thing for us to eat. We were not hungry but
could not tell them so and were afraid to refuse
to eat for fear of giving offense so we decided to
try to get down a few bites. The first course
was a ripe bananna each, which we could have
eaten with relish but for the peculiar smell of the
place; next came a piece of baked bread-fruit
and cooked green banannas. All were laid on
the mat before us, and while endeavoring to dis-
pose of the first bananna, we sat gazing at our
table and then at each other and wondering what
we had better do about it. While we wondered
the old lady took a large leaf from a basket in
which we knew some delicacy was hidden, but
oh! how we did hope she would not offer us any
of it. Sister H. said "O dear, let's go" but I did
not see how we could just then so we remained
sitting while she uncovered the dainty viands.
Our stomachs literally turned over at sight of the
mess; it was what the natives call "gau;" I do
not know what it was composed of I'm sure;
something they get from the sea when the tide is
low—a kind of worm I would say—I think if you
were to cut the entrails of a chicken up fine,
[Column 2]
gizzard and contents, craw and all and mix, you
would have something resembling it in appear-
ance and smell—cannot say as to taste for we did
not eat the gau.
	Taking a piece of the bread-fruit in our hands
we took our departure, after thanking them for
their kindness and bidding them "tofa."
	Returning to our home we related the ex-
perience to the brethren, who had a good laugh
at our expense, for such meals are often spread
before them and they are not at a loss to know
how to act either, for they have learned long ago
how to appreciate Samoan hospitality.
	The Samoans prepare many varieties of food
which are altogether unpalatable to us and in
many of their customs and habits are very de-
graded indeed, but while this is a fact it is also
true that there are honest souls among them and
these our faithful elders are diligently seeking to
find.
	We hope to be able to assist a little in the good
work and to this end desire the prayers and faith
of all our good sisters in Zion. One lesson we
are sure will be indelibly impressed upon our
minds if we learn nothing more while we are here, 
and that is to appreciate our homes and their
surroundings when once we are permitted to re-
turn. And not only will we appreciate our
homes but how much will we learn to love and
cherish the dear relatives and friends whom we
have left, after being separated from them for a
season!
	May heaven's richest blessings attend the
sisters in Zion in all their efforts to do good, and
may we all be enabled to fulfill our duties aright
in whatever position we may be placed.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion and her
loving mothers and fair daughters, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
						ANNIE D. STEVENS.


