[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Editorial | Title: The New Crawford]
the  nine  women  who  have  presided  Sister  Spafford  was  called  in  1935, 
over  Relief  Society  since  its  organ-  and  members  of  the  General  Board 
ization  in  1842.  staff. 
The  portrait  of  President  Spaf-         Members  of  the  general  commit- 
ford  was  painted  by  the  young  Lon-  tee  in  charge  of  arrangements  for 
don    artist,    Alvin    L.    Gittins,    a  the  occasion  were  Leone  G.  Layton, 
member  of  the  Church.  He  and  his  Blanche  B.  Stoddard,  and  Leone  O. 
wife  were  present  at  the  ceremony.  Jacobs,  of  the  General  Board.  For- 
Secretary-Treasurer  Margaret  C.  mer  president  Amy  Brown  Lyman 
Pickering,  during  her  remarks  con-  and  Tessie  Smith  Johnston,  sister  of 
cerning  the  painting  of  the  portrait,  President  Spafford,  presided  at  the 
compared  a  portrait  to  a  "biography  refreshment  table, 
done  with  a  brush  instead  of  a  pen."  Relief  Society  members  through- 
It  was  the  consensus  of  opinion  of  out  the  Church  will  be  interested  in 
those  who  were  present,  that  this  calling  at  the  Relief  Society  head- 
portrait  is  not  a  mere  likeness  but  quarters  when  they  are  in  Salt  Lake 
that  it  is,  in  truth,  a  "biography  City,  and  viewing  this  portrait  of 
done  with   a  brush,"  revealing  the  President  Spafford. 
Poge4

AT  THE  UNVEILING  CEREMONY 
Left:  Mary  Spafford  Kemp,  daughter  of  President  Spafford,  who  unveiled  the  por- 
trait, and  President  Spafford.

A  New  Latter- Day  Saint  Artist 
Dr.  Geiritt  de  Jong,  ]i. 
Dean  of  the  College  of  Fine  Arts,  Brigham  Young  University 
ANEW  and  radiant  light  has 
appeared  on  the  Latter-day 
Saint  and  Utah  art  horizons 
in  the  person  of  Alvin  L.  Gittins, 
who  painted  the  beautiful  portrait 
of  Sister  Belle  S.  Spafford,  President 
of  the  Relief  Society,  found  repro- 
duced in  this  issue  of  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine.  Although  he  is 
but  in  his  twenty-fifth  year,  and  has 
been  in  Utah  only  since  last  Janu- 
ary, his  work  has  evoked  the  enthus- 
iastic commendation  of  all  the  local 
artists  who  have  become  acquainted 
with  it. 
Alvin  Loraine  Gittins  was  born  on 
January  17th,  1922,  at  Kiddermin- 
ster, Worcestershire,  England,  the 
son  of  William  L.  and  Esther 
Chance  Gittins.  Since  his  parents 
were  both  converted  to  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
before  their  marriage,  the  artist  was 
born  and  reared  within  the  Church. 
So  much  did  he  associate  with  mis-
