[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 38 | Category: Article | Title: Certitude Roberts]

LATITUDE Dorothy J. Roberts There must be winter, that no fraying leaf Hang in shreds and thin the summer shade; And this clean severing and harvest sheaf Of death, and seed, and a world, remade. 
  JANUARY 1947
Social Science  The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 6
Constructive of Time Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday, April 22, 1946 "Thou shalt not idle away thy time" (Doc. And Cov. 60: 1) "ARE we getting the most out of life?" is a question worthy of serious consideration. Someone has said, "The people of America are getting nowhere fast." The tempo of life today is such that we may easily lose sight of the course which brings true happiness and contentment. Do we follow a pattern of life which includes the real values, or do we clutter up our lives with many nonessentials?
Are our lives ruled by chance, or by choice? Do we do the things that just happen to come along, or do we choose what we shall do because it yields good returns? With our lives so full, and with so many demands on our time, discrimination is important. "Wisdom consists not in knowing many things, nor even in knowing them thoroughly, but in choosing that which contributes most to our lasting happiness."
What are the essentials of life? What could well be eliminated? The National Safety Council puts out a little circular called "A Check List for Safety." It points out various essentials which should be examined in each home to ensure the physical safety of members of that household. Let us consider "A Check List for Safety" to ensure a well-rounded life, not only for physical safety, but for mental and spiritual safety as Religion Essential
The Savior said, "But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness; and all these things (meaning food and drink and clothing) shall be added unto you." Thus we learn that religion should be basic to our lives. It is a must on the check list for safety. Worldly pleasures and accumulations should only be added to spiritual development. The time spent in fulfilling religious assignments, attending Church meetings, in studying the gospel, and teaching it to our children, is an essential part of our schedule.
No time is better spent than that time devoted to personal and family prayers. Participating in family prayer can do much to closely unite a family and to fortify its members against each day's temptations.
Pray always, and I will pour out my Spirit upon you, and great shall be your blessings—yea, even more than if you should obtain treasures of earth and corruptibleness to the extent thereof (Doc. and Cov. 19:38).
LESSON DEPARTMENT 69
Since the gospel of Jesus Christ embodies all that is good and true, there is no danger of leaving out anything of value if we live the gospel in its fullest sense. It is part of our religion for us to use religion to do everything in our power to promote good health.
This means many things: eating properly, abstaining from those things which are detrimental to health, getting sufficient rest, and some wholesome recreation. It is unwise for people to live at such a high speed that they endanger their health. Recreation We know that pleasure and recreation are also important to health and happiness, but there is a tendency today to overemphasize recreation.
Young people, and many older ones, feel that if they do not go out several nights a week, the world is passing them by.
Many social events are scheduled for each night, so that people are forced either to choose one and miss the others or, in some instances, to visit for a short period at several functions.
This lessens the real enjoyment derived from any one occasion.
When there is an excess of anything, it cannot be fully enjoyed.
More pleasure is derived from one party, anticipated as a real occasion, than parties every night in the week, which become commonplace.
Many people are surfeited with pleasure and cannot get happiness from simple recreation.
Does being continually on the go bring peace and contentment, more love and appreciation of each other, and of life in general?
Certainly not. We hear men reminisce about the pleasant times spent with old friends in throwing horseshoes or playing checkers.
These are simple, leisurely pleasures, but filled with as much interest as many we might mention.
Indiscriminate attendance at movies is detrimental, although some are worthwhile, many are more degrading than uplifting. A gentleman about sixty years of age was asked how he had enjoyed his recent trip to Yellowstone Park. "Oh, it wasn't much," he replied. "We were gone only 'four days, including going and coming, and we didn't have time to see much or stop along the way to visit anyone.
Just hurry there and hurry back. But the trip I really enjoyed there was the one we took about thirty years ago, when we went with a team and wagon, and were gone a whole month. We had time to get a good look at the scenery before we sped by, and to get out and fish if we wanted, or to lay over an extra night if it stormed, and to stop and visit friends and relatives along the way. Ah! The good old days!" We do need more time to enjoy and appreciate the simple beauties around us. If the time of the Sabbath day is spent in pleasure seeking, the blessings of that day are forfeited.
There is a purpose for the Sabbath day in our lives. If we abuse this day, and make of it a holiday, instead of holy day, we are depriving ourselves of a blessing we are forfeiting a part of a well-balanced life.
People should plan their recreation for Saturday, at least for Saturday afternoons. And evenings may provide time in which to participate in most forms of recreation.
Perhaps we have more pleasure seeking than is necessary, or even good for us.
Maybe we affiliate ourselves with too many social organizations.
More time in which to associate with our families and relatives would be beneficial.
Which brings us to another "must". Family Association Love, and home and family associations are the mainsprings of life. 

  JANUARY 1947 LESSON DEPARTMENT Children should be the prime consideration of every married couple, for they bring the greatest joy, and are the finest contribution to the world that it is possible to make. The home is no longer the center of association that it has been. It has become, in too many instances, just a place in which to sleep more or less a stop-over station between appointments. If we but realized it, the members of our immediate families are the people in all the world most interested in our welfare and happiness. The more closely we mingle with them, the richer will be our lives. One writer says: The family is that fellowship of parents and children, created and promoted through the sharing of vital interests. The relationship within the family is not a thing, a definitely and finally established bond, but is a process which goes on continuously among persons.
When the interests shared are many and vigorous and significant, the relationship waxes warm and secure and precious.
When the interests shared are few or weak or trivial, the relationship wanes, gets thin and illusory, becomes mechanized.
Going through the form of getting married and the ordeal of having a baby does not automatically make a family. It provides the essential persons, but they must achieve the fellowship distinctive of a family before they are a family in spirit and in truth. Is there anything we can do to further this family spirit?
Some people say, "Well, that's the way the world is today. There's nothing we can do about it." But society is made up of individual families, and we can slowly, but surely do something constructive about the activities of our immediate family. One very busy mother, who gives lessons in elocution, in addition to her household duties, drives with her husband quite often to another 71 town some forty miles away, on business. He likes her to accompany him, and no matter what she has planned for the day, she arranges to go with him. "First things first," she says, and she thinks her husband should be first.
They are an unusually happy and harmonious couple. An old proverb says, "Consistency, thou art a jewel."
Some mothers make a fetish of keeping the house spotless, but send the children out to play with no restrictions nor supervision, in order to keep the house clean.
Some wiseacre said, "Some women are so antiseptic in housekeeping that a germ can't live in it, and a man won't."
Still a clean house is important, but not as important as properly training and supervising a child, and in having a warm feeling of welcome and comfort in the home. No amount of time can be spent to better advantage than in training a child. One immaculate housekeeper says she sets herself certain duties to perform each day and, come what may, she does not stop until they are all finished.
Such an attitude is not wisdom.
Cleaning house is not so vital that time cannot be taken out for occasions of companionship and culture. It behooves us to take some little time in which to read the happenings of the day and the progress of science in other words, we should keep abreast of the times and store our, minds with the fine knowledge that is around us.
Reading of inferior literature is definitely a waste of time and should be discontinued. "Dost thou love life?
Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of," said Benjamin Franklin.
Time is precious, and 72 each of us has the same amount at his disposal each day. The success of our individual lives is determined by how we use each short, twenty-four hours of time. Brigham Young said: Now, sisters, if you will consider these things you will readily see that time is all the capital stock there is on the earth; and you should consider your time golden, it is actually wealth, and, if properly used, it brings that which will add to your comfort, convenience, and satisfaction. Let us consider this, and no longer sit with hands folded, wasting time, for it is the duty of every man and of every woman to do all
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JANUARY 1947 that is possible to promote the Kingdom of God on the earth (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 330; 1941 edition page 214).
Questions for Discussion 1.
What are the essentials of life? Z. Are people in general seeking pleasure too avidly? Discuss. 3. How may we slow down the pace of living? References Doctrine and Covenants, 93:53; 88:118. 124. Smith, Pres. Joseph F.: Gospel Doc trine, pp. 295-296.