[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Award Winners Annual Contest]

Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the award winners in the short story contest which was announced in the June 1946 issue of the Magazine, and which closed September 15, 1946. The first prize of thirty-five dollars is awarded to Margery S. Stewart, 1474
Hollywood Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "The Return." The second prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Rhea Smith, 181
East Gregson Avenue, Salt Lake City, for her story "Cast Thy Burdens." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Olive Maiben Nicholes, 240
East 2nd North, Provo, Utah, for her story "The Sound of Bugles." This short story contest, first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1941, as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by the editor of a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories are to be published consecutively in the first three issues of the Magazine for 1947. Twenty-two manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1946. None of the prize winners for this year had previously placed in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest. This contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity will continue to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. The Relief Society Magazine now has a circulation of nearly eighty thousand. 'There are subscribers in every state of the Union, and in many foreign countries, thus providing a varied and interested group of readers. Writers, recognizing this large and appreciative audience, realize the importance of entering in the contest their very best work. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the three judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. 'The General Board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. Page 15