[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Centennial Conversation Walton]

Third Prize Poem Centennial Conversation Miranda Snow Walton A Great-Granddaughter Speaks: Great-Grandmother Ann, were you sad that day In the long, long ago, when you sailed away From your home in a land far over the sea? Did your young heart harbor perplexity? Did you face your future in doubt and fear, As your great-granddaughter is doing here? Of what did you dream in this alien land, As your tired feet plodded through sage and sand? You could not have visioned the things I know When you entered this valley so long ago, This Inland Empire, where temples raise 3
Their arms in rejoicing at heaven's ways; You could not see then, as I do today, The gold of the grainfields, the orchards gay; The cities that lie on the valley's breast, Each one a jewel that God's hand has caressed; Then, what was the vision that made you strong, What dream gave you courage to journey on? The Great-Grandmother Answers: Great-Granddaughter Ann, the dream I had Was a simple one, and it made me glad; Though I knew the heartbreak of goodbye tears, It banished my doubts, and dispelled my fears. I dreamed of a home in a peaceful place, Of a good man's love, and a baby's face. My home was a dugout where wild sage grew, But our love was there, and my dream was true. Oh, child of my grandson, resolve this day To set your feet on your rightful way: No matter what struggle a true love brings, Hold fast to the good and the simple things, A home where no evil nor hate abide; Keep faith, and virtue, and truth inside; Hold love as a treasure that has no price, And a baby's laughter as paradise; Do your woman's work in this world of woe, For out of such things great empires grow. Se It should be satisfactory evidence that you are in the path of life, if you love God and your brethren with all your hearts. You may see, or think you see, a thousand faults in your brethren; yet they are organized as you are; they are flesh of your flesh, bone of your bone; they are of your Father who is in heaven; we are all His children, and should be satisfied with each other as far as possible. The main difficulty in the hearts of those who are dissatisfied is, they are not satisfied with themselves (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 271). 
  JANUARY 1947