[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 37 | Category: Article | Title: Optional Lesson in Lieu Lyon]
LESSON DEPARTMENT Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature Course The Gospel as a Way of Life Lesson 7
The Abundant Life, Here and Hereafter Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, April 15, 1947
Most of the biblical accounts of the teachings of Jesus concern themselves with illustrative parables that he used to emphasize a principle of conduct or belief.
Seldom is there a statement that can serve as a concrete summary of his teachings.
Perhaps one of the best is contained in his sermon that stressed the need for reliance upon his teachings and the acceptance of him as the door to the kingdom of God.
Stressing the fact that, unlike the thief who came to steal, kill or destroy, he came to give men life, he stated: "I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly" (John 10:10).
This expression, "The Abundant Life," has come to be thought of as one of the finest descriptions of the purpose of life that has ever been made, and while it is true that an abundant life may be obtained in this mortal sphere of action, the Lord's real thought in this expression had to do with the life to come. He promised those who follow him persecution, hate of the world, deprivation of many things, and this has been the history of his people, very largely, when they have faithfully served him. The true meaning of the abundant life is the reward of exaltation which is to come. For this life, it implies that the Christian should be living a life that is full of goodness, joy, service, contentment, faith, vigor, righteousness, and all virtues that make life worthwhile.
Turing from the realm of abstract ideals to the physical world in which we live, requires that the abundant life be interpreted in terms of daily living and social conduct in our society. One of the most fundamental requirements for living abundantly is the enjoyment of good health spiritually, mentally and physically.
Nowhere is this fact stressed more clearly than in the Latter-day Saint Word of Wisdom (Doc. And Cov. 89). The Lord revealed this guide for living, stating the types of things that were detrimental to health, and then revealed a list of positive ways for improving health. It closes with a threefold promise: One who observes this law will have increased physical strength, increased knowledge, and greater spiritual power. It was not given as a restriction upon freedom, but to lead the world to a better understanding of the meaning of joyful living. Our modern world, on every hand, is full of inducements to indulge in those things that the Lord has condemned, and social pressure makes it the "smart thing" to do. But a careful observer notices that nothing tangible that can contribute 66 to lasting, abundant living, is offered in exchange for the indulgence. One of the best arguments for the observance of the prohibitive elements of the Word of Wisdom that has ever come to our attention was 'a remark overheard in a conversation between two students at an institution of higher learning. A professor in a physiology class had stated that the smoking of six cigarettes a day apparently had no physiological effect upon the human system. A boy, addicted to the smoking habit, was trying to persuade: a girl to join him in a smoke, meeting her arguments that it was unhealthy with the quotation from the professor's lecture.
Finally the girl replied: "Suppose I do smoke six cigarettes a day, and suppose I have the will power not to smoke more than six a day, which I doubt I would have, if the habit were formed, what would I then have that I do not already possess, except stained fingers, a tobacco smelling breath, and less money in my purse?" Her answer called for a statement of the merits of the habit, and he had nothing to offer. The same question might be asked whenever any food or drink that is unhealthful is offered for consumption.
Service to mankind was one of the teachings that Jesus urged upon his followers as a means of gaining the abundant life. His parable of the good Samaritan, as well as his teaching of the need to love our neighbor, as intensely as we love ourselves, are illustrations of his concept of service (see Luke 10:25-37). The giving of our time, means, and talents for the benefit of others has proved to be one of the richest experiences in achieving abundant
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JANUARY 1947 life.
Within the Church, there is the basic system of giving, namely, that of the tithe. The Lord requires that we return to his Church the tenth that has been designated "The Lord's Tenth." In addition to this, there is the system of fast offerings which represent the money saved through abstaining from food for two meals on the first Sunday of each month. In addition to these fixed practices, Church members are called upon to make donations for the erection of new chapels, or the remodeling of old ones.
Many individuals spend large sums in support of missionaries sent to the people of the earth. Also, donations for Church Welfare projects and quorum activities make demands upon the financial resources of the saints. During World War I, the government used a slogan in its bond-selling campaigns that read "Give till it hurts." Latter-day Saints have a better one.
They give until it hurts, then keep on giving, until it feels good.
They have learned the truth of Paul's quotation of Jesus, "It is more blessed to give than to receive" (Acts 20:35).
Giving of one's substance overcomes selfishness, creates an interest in the great social and spiritual work of the Church, and draws one closer to God.
Proof of the increased ability to give, when once engaged in the process, is found in a recent statement by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., speaking before the Welfare workers of the South California Region in February 1946. He said: It is rather a curious thing to me that since we began this Welfare Plan and since we began calling upon the saints to give, our tithing has increased more than
150 LESSON DEPARTMENT per cent, and is still on the increase (Deseret News, Church Section, March 2, 1946, page 9). The Order of Consecration and Stewardship during the Missouri period, the attempt at living the United Order in Utah, and now, the Church Welfare Plan, are all organized attempts that the Church has undertaken to afford the saints the opportunity of making their services to their fellow men more effective. An essential element of abundant living is found in marriage and the home life built by this relationship. God instituted marriage and blessed it as an eternal institution. 'To mankind he gave the command to multiply and replenish the earth. The birth of a child brings with it the responsibility of parents to co-operate in the proper rearing of this child.
Here is a great opportunity for service. The mother labors diligently, losing herself in service to her offspring, and the father, working diligently to provide the food, clothing, and shelter for those he loves, also loses himself in service to the next generation. In addition to providing for the physical needs, the parents have the obligation of providing further service to their children through teaching them proper spiritual habits and fine ideals (Doc. And Cov. 69:25-31). Co-operation, unselfishness, forgiveness, kindness, consideration, love, and duty are taught within the home better than any other place. The Latter-day Saint concept of the eternity of the marriage relationship is a dynamic power in married life, giving to it a degree of permanency that cannot be found elsewhere in the modem world.
Temple work affords one an opportunity to serve unselfishly one's kindred dead, with the knowledge of the joy being bestowed upon the recipients of the temple work.
This represents losing oneself for the sake of the gospel, but finding a new life because of the increased joy that the unselfish service brings.
Jesus taught that not only must we love our neighbors or friends, but that we must also love our enemies.
This means that we must learn the value of a forgiving mind. It is difficult to forgive when others have wronged us, yet this requirement is one of the fundamental principles of conduct. In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus taught that we should seek out those whom we may have wronged and be reconciled (see Matt. 5:23-24). In this dispensation, the Lord has again placed upon the saints the responsibility to make peace with those who offend them (see Doc. And Cov. 42:88, 89). It is difficult, but it is the Christian thing to do, and is the first step toward the realization of the ideal of loving one's enemies. The Lord has said: Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another: for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin. I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men (Doc. And Cov. 64:9-10). An element that is essential to the abundant way of living, but often lost sight of in our modern world, is the opportunity we have to worship our Eternal Father and our Lord Jesus Christ. He has told us that on the Lord's day we are to go to our houses of worship and offer our donations, partake of the sacrament- al emblems, and offer prayers of thanksgiving, gratitude and praise, as well as prayers for our needs (Doc. And Cov. 59:7-16). Certainly, our prayers should emphasize our gratitude and thanks, not merely supplicate for our wants. In order to draw close to God in our devotions, we must worship intelligently. The Lord stated in Doctrine and Covenants 93:19, that he was revealing the information contained in that section that we might understand and know how to worship and know what we worship.
Only when the human soul comes in tune with divinity is that soul able to live on the level of abundant life. In spite of all the requirements placed upon members of the Church, both financial and service requirements, the gospel does not require one to live the life of an unhappy person. The ideal of joy has always been a basic interpretation of our attitude toward life (II Nephi 2:25). The joyous life is a good life. A good life is a clean life. A clean life is a worshipful life, and a worshipful life is one that is lived in conformity with the spirit of the gospel.
When one is healthy, generous with his material wealth, has a good home, and a happy married life, gives himself in the service of others, learns forgiveness and love of those who offend him, and has learned to approach God in the true spirit of worship, his life should be radiantly happy, because he has found the path that leads to the abundant life that Jesus came to give mankind on this sphere of existence, as well as in the world to come, by earning individual exaltation in the kingdom of God.
