[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The New Year General Society]
cJhe   flew    LJear 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  women  the  world  over,  as  a  band  of  united  sisters, 
greet  the  new  year  with  hearts  filled  with  faith  and  courage.  Like 
Janus  of  old,  we  stand  with  faces  turned  both  ways.  We  look  at  the 
departed  year,  sorrowful  over  the  unrighteousness  that  has  brought  so 
much  anxiety  and  suffering,  but  grateful  for  the  fidelity  to  right  and  the 
fortitude  that  have  carried  us  through.  We  rejoice  that  out  of  the  welter 
of  our  own  personal  trials  we  have  been  able  to  rise  and  serve  one  another. 
We  look  toward  the  new  year,  fully  aware  that  it  will  not  let  us  rest 
from  our  labors,  neither  slacken  our  watchcare  over  that  which  is  good.  We 
realize,  however,  that  the  experiences  of  the  past  year  have  given  us  in- 
creased strength  to  walk  the  road  ahead;  and,  through  the  darkness  and 
despair,  we  see  the  light  of  the  gospel  burning  steady  and  true.  With  calm 
assurance  of  its  unfailing  guidance  and  sustaining  power,  we  accept  the 
tasks  that  lie  ahead  and  face  the  future  unafraid. 
Ours  is  a  healing  mission  requiring  the  larger  heart,  the  kindlier  touch, 
the  steadier  will;  it  is  a  work  of  many  skills,  requiring  the  alert  mind,  the 
measured  judgment,  the  trained  hand.  Ours  is  not  easy  work— it  was 
never  intended  to  be  so;  but  it  is  work,  the  bountiful  fruits  of  which  are 
joy,  satisfaction,  and  growth. 
With  hearts  filled  with  love  and  tenderness,  with  hands  held  out  to 
service,  with  minds  awake  to  that  which  is  right,  we  will  work  toward 
nobler  modes  of  life,  confident  that  a  kind  and  all-wise  Father  will  bless 
our  labors  through  another  year. 
The  love  and  prayers  of  the  General  Board  are  with  our  Relief  Society 
sisters  throughout  the  world.  May  the  new  year  bring  to  each  of  us, 
strength  for  her  tasks,  joy  in  service,  and  success  commensurate  with  her 
righteous  efforts. 
Belle  S.  Spafford 
Marianne  C.  Sharp 
Gertrude  R.  Garf  f 
General  Presidencv
