[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Faith Is a Chapter]

Page 9 
  JANUARY 1947
Dedication "This is the Place" the leader raised his hands, The challenge of the mountains or the sands To this small band of weary pioneers; God help them see the future in the years. "And it shall truly blossom as the rose," And lo, it did, and so the story goes: Great homes were builded well, with mountains 'round, Irrigation, too, to wet the thirsty ground; And temple spires in majesty rose high To link the holiness with azure sky; And government became integral part, And schools and colleges and cultural art. All these and all that makes humanity Unchained from lower life on land and sea, Unfolded there with every passing hour, Man's will upheld by God's majestic power.
By Faith We Walk What now? A hundred precious years gone by. In gratitude, with dauntless heads held high, We face the future with its atom fear, And pray, dear God, that thou art ever near; So near that thou wilt touch us with thy power And give us courage through each changing hour  Our heritage from pioneers before. Hold thou our hands as we pass on through the door Into that age that no man dares to think  There is no turning; we are at the brink. So may we face it without torturing fear, Our hands in thine, dear Lord, again we pioneer. Ethel Newman Eccles, a native of Salt Lake City, now living in Ohio, was awarded first prize in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1944, for her story "Rock Roses of Nazareth." This is her first appearance as a winner in the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contests. She has for some time been writing poetry, prose, and fiction. Her early work was published in the Gold and Blue, a Latter-day Saint high school periodical, and later in Playground, issued by the playground system of Washington, D. C. She was at one time a special reporter for The Deseret News, with a column in each Saturday edition. She is an active Relief Society worker, has been president of the North Ohio District Relief Society of the Northern States Mission, and is now president of the Cleveland Branch Relief Society. Her husband is Parley P. Eccles. There are two children, a daughter, Mrs. Van M. Smith, of Washington, D. C., and a fourteen-year-old son, Parley Eccles, Jr. Mrs. Eccles also has two small grandchildren.