[Vol34 | January 1947 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: The Final Year in the Driggs]

DEPARTMENTAL MEETINGS, OCTOBER 2, 1946
The Final Year in the Church History Course Elder H. Wayne Driggs Y dear sisters, I shall need all of your sustaining faith to carry forward what is in my heart to say in regard to the work that fell to my lot over the period of three years now past. To talk about the final year of the Church History series, in a sense, is like trying to paint the scenes of ' America on one canvas. It is breathtaking.
This year we are talking about the "coming of age" period in Church history.
During half of my life I have lived around the scenes of the Church, where things began. I know Broome County. I know the spot where Brother Knight first greeted the Prophet and permitted him to hold cottage meetings. I have been in Oakland, which was Harmony, Pennsylvania. And many times I have been to the place where John the Baptist first appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I spent sixteen months of my mission in and about Palmyra. So, to me, these things are not simply dots on a map, or a line indicating a river; they are far more than that. I think now of the little branch in Binghamton, New York, where Sister Driggs and I used to go with our boys, and would meet with two or three Relief Society sisters, much, 1 imagine, as they did in days when the Church was referred to as the "Tittle flock," when the word, the revealed word of God, was the important thing. The Doctrine and Covenants at that time, in the early days of the Church, had not been accepted in congregation as the word of God.
They knew it to be the word of God because the Prophet had spoken it. Now, we have had, in two years, through this study, an opportunity to have the personal side of Church history revealed through the lives of the men and women who lived it, and I should like to say that one of the most important things to Te member about the scriptures is that they were lived before they were written, and that is why they are of such great import to us. In the early days, the members of the Church relied upon the word of the Lord, and they had to take it literally to understand its significance. Now, what has happened? We have had, in the expansion of the Church, an opportunity to see just the sort of thing I see here before me this morning hundreds of fine women, firm in the faith, coming from many places to learn from the organized Relief Society, its president, counselors, and Board, the fine things that they have to give to carry forward the work that has long since passed the "little flock" stage, on into the "coming of age" period of this great Church of ours. Now, I think if we can keep that in mind, it may help us more in this final series of lessons than anything else that I could suggest, because when you have the personal drama of the Church, as it was up to the time of the martyrdom, and as it was after the martyrdom, in the crossing of the plains, there is always the touch of the human hand, so to speak, in helping you to see why these principles of the gospel are true. But now, what happens? You think of the Church collectively, and you think of the Relief Society organization, and the splendid educational system, and the Priesthood quorums, and all of the auxiliary work, and the Welfare Plan, and all these things, making it difficult to understand, and to keep that fine, warm touch of the human relations idea that came in the early days of the Church. I have tried to do two things for you.
First of all, not to confuse you with a long list of questions at the end of the lesson, which seem to get away from the central idea. Rather, I have tried to focus your attention sharply on one or two significant questions which promote thinking and discussion, first from your class, and then, after that has been carried 

  JANUARY 1947 GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE forward, to invite you to do some actual reading of the Doctrine and Covenants, which brings about most of the discussion, and should bring the real heart of the discussion. NOW, there is something significant to me about the first vision, in the way in which Joseph Smith later wrote it. He said: "We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost." He did not say: "We believe in God, the Eternal Father, His Son, Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost." But he repeats: ""We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost." It seems to me that he placed with conviction every comma in that sentence, because he had seen the individuality of the two, the Father and the Son, and he knew that the Holy Ghost was just as distinct, although a personage of spirit. I have suggested that you give the class a chance to think of the historical events that have come during the hundred and sixteen years of our Church, and then discuss those that are found in the lesson in the light of the Article of Faith which applies particularly to the events being discussed. Now, there is one comforting thought, at least to me, as the writer of the lessons, and that is that we can rely upon a great deal of backlog information about these things. In other words, you have studied Church history for a long time, and you will study it for a long time more, and there will come to you added significance to these thoughts 31 as to the worthwhile character of the lives of the saints who gave so much to make this Church what it is today. And like a radiant gem, meeting new light and color, there comes through a heart-warming experience of reading the word of God for purposes centered around a given ideal, which is the lesson objective, a chance to depart from the world and to have faith renewed and strength given, so that one may know in these trying times, that there is an anchorage to living. - There are eight lessons, the first one an overview, the second one in terms of the Priesthood callings. Certainly, I will not have to say much to you on the organization of the Relief Society and its significance, but I have tried in that to give something that has a little different slant. The educational system is put forth, and also three of the auxiliary organizations. Then, I have discussed the Welfare Plan, with all its important significance in these days. By way of summary, I felt that something should be said for the unsung heroes of the Church.
What a wealth of experience this lesson can be when you bring to your class the stories of the unsung heroes of Zion, who have made the great cause what it is! The final lesson is a review of the century. It has been a privilege to write the series, and I am certain that this experience that I have had this morning has made me realize, more than anything else, what has been meant in the phrase, "the coming of age" period of the Church. God help you to appreciate these values, I pray, through Christ our Lord, Amen.