Coley." NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 513 / ANOTHER RED CROSS STORY. Taylor Stake. This cake was made by Mrs. Georgina O'Brien, president of the Taylor Stake Relief Society, and sent as a complimentary gift from the stake to the Lethbridge Society, one of the newest branches in the stake. Being filled with patriotic zeal, the Lethbridge organization presented the cake to the Red Cross Society, with the hope that it might be sold with profit by the Society. The cake was placed by the Red Cross Society in the window of a jewelry store, where it was raffled at 10c per chance, netting the Red Cross $203.35. ' The winner in the contest sent the cake on to Glengary, where it was raffled a second time, bringing $200.00. The total amount received for the cake was $403.35. While the Relief Society does not raise funds through the method of raffling, still this incident will be interesting to our readers. Oneida Stake Annual Report. Through an oversight at our general officers' meeting in April, the General Secretary failed to mention among the best reports for 1916, that of the Oneida stake. The Oneida stake has always been foremost in Relief Society work, and under the careful guidance of Mrs. Nellie P. Head, the new stake president. 
 it is not only living up to the old ideals, but is forging ahead along all lines of progress. We are pleased to make this public apology and to record good wishes for the future welfare of this energetic stake society. . / Welcome Visitor. Miss Margaret Edward, who has just been released from the Eastern States Mission, was a most welcome visitor recently at Relief Society headquarters. Miss Edward was President of the Relief Society in the Eastern States. She was one of our most energetic and capable officers, and left her branches in splendid working condition. Another interesting visitor was Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin of Washington. D. C. Mrs. Calvin is a specialist in home economics for the National Bureau of Education, with headquarters in Washington, D. C. This bureau is an advisory for the colleges and universities in the United States. It is interesting to note that Mrs. Calvin receives a salary of $3,500. Her services are paid for at the same rate as those of the men in the department. It is always a source of gratification when a woman who does the same work as that done by a man receives the same remuneration. Relief Society Nurse School. The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing will be open for instruction on September 17, 1917. From the number of inquiries which are coming into the office it is expected that the attendance will be larger than usual. In addition to the regular courses that have been offered in the past, the School this year has added short courses in the following subjects: Drugs and solutions, contagious diseases, sterilization, first aid work, and practical demonstrations in nursing. This latter course will include the care of the patient in bed, bedmaking, etc. Arrangements will also be made for students to have an opportunity to be responsible for a number of hours of actual nursing during the term, under the direction of the School. Practical experience is one of the most important features in connection with the work of a young physician or a nurse, and the wise and up-to-date physician or nurse will make almost any sacrifice in order to have the early opportunity to put into practice the theories gained through study. Many of the modern medical schools are considering the matter of requiring the young physician who has completed the medical course to give one year's free hospital service as interne or house doctor before a diploma is granted him. The tuition for the Nurse course will consist of a cash payment of $25 and thirty days' service in charity nursing: the tuition NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 515 for the course in Obstetrics will consist of a cash payment of $50 and service at five chanty obstetrical cases or thirty days' service in charity nursing. The charity service required will be given in the respective wards under the direction of ward presidents. In case a student changes her residence her services will be transferred to her new place of residence. It is hoped that the Relief Society as a whole will show a keen interest in the School and that the various ward organizations will help the School and help themselves by making an effort to increase the attendance. The Ensign Relief Society, During the early spring, had special lectures given in Home Gardening and Canning and Bottling of Fruits and Vegetables. These lectures have already borne good fruit. The stake officers recently sent out a call to all of the wards to collect worn and cast-off clothing and all surplus materials, whether new or old. The old clothes will be ripped up, cleaned and pressed, and with the remnants and odd materials, will be made into new articles of clothing. As a result of this special effort, many families will be helped during the coming winter. Alpine Stake. The Alpine Stake Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. joined together in an effort to increase food supply. As a stimulus, they offered prizes as follows: $5 for the largest quantity and best quality of dried fruit, dried corn or beans; $4 for second prize, $3 for the third prize; $2 for the 4th prize; and $1 for the 5th prize. They also asked each individual member in the stake to be prepared to donate to the Society 3 pounds and upwards of the following: dried fruit, dried corn, squash, beans and peas. This Society is also collecting old clothing to clean, remodel and lay away for future need. Wasatch Stake. The Wasatch Stake Society has planted one-half acre of potatoes and from present indications a good crop will be produced. This Society has purchased, with Sunday eggs, 200 fruit jars which the members are filling with fruit and vegetables. They have purchased a pressure cooker, and are renting it to individuals at 10c per day. Each member of the Society who has a kitchen garden is, according to agreement, sharing her garden supplies with those who are in need. St. George Stake. The Tocqueville Relief Society is co-operating with the canning company in the matter of putting up fruit. In return for 
 a number of days' service given to the cannery by Relief Society members, these same members are privileged to bring their fruit to the cannery where they do their nun canning' under the direction of the manager.  Benson Stake. At the recent Conference of the Benson stake held in Lewiston, one of the striking features was the music furnished by the stake choir under the direction of Mrs. Emma Thornley. Tn addition to good voices there was evidence of careful training and painstaking effort. During the few weeks immediately preceding the Conference Mrs. Thornley visited each of the wards and there held practices with the ward singers. From the Lewiston Third ward of the Benson stake comes the report that the teachers' visits in this ward during the last year were up to the standard of 100 per cent. Bingham Stake. It is interesting to record that two Relief Society teachers of the Beaver ward traveled thirty miles in an automobile to visit three families. Mrs. Peter Kelly of Iona ward has been a Relief Society teacher for fourteen years, and in that time she has missed making her monthly district visits only twice. DELICIOUS TATTOO TOT ATO CAKE. 2-3 cup butter 3*/> teaspoons baking powder 2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon Yokes of 4 eggs 1 teaspoon nutmeg 1 cup hot mashed potatoes 1 cup chopped walnuts T/2 cake chocolate (melted) Whites of 4 eggs. Yi cup milk 2 cups flour Rake slowly in moderate oven.  Zina E. White. Thatcher. Ida.