HOME ENTERTAINMENTS. 507 dainty, ruffled and embroidered ones for afternoon wear and the big kitchen aprons needed by all home-makers. Serve light refreshments cafeteria style at so much per portion and have a little music, and a successful sale will be assured. Calico Carnival.  A variation from the usual fair would be a calico carnival. The invitation follows: "Consider yourself cordially constrained to be present at the correctly constructed calico carnival to be held at the Hall, September, 1917, at p. m. Admission 15 cents. "Supper Menu.  One conglomerated circle (sandwich), one cup communicative chocolate, or one cup churned cream, one cider cured cucumber, one cup cold custard. ties. "Ladies requested to wear calico gowns, gentlemen calico "There will be for sale cheap, cunning, calico conveniences that will be a constant comfort. Carnival will conclude with a calico A ball." Tail Food Sale would prove popular. There should be tables or boards for canned goods, bottled fruit, pickles, cake and bread, winter vegetables and fruit. This should prove a winner if well advertised. A Peddlers' Parade is a strong rival of fair boots on account of its novelty and because it permits the workers to circulate among the audience and seek out purchasers. Let the peddlers be dressed in different costumes. These may represent nationalities, or the days of the week, the various holidays, months of the year, or the flowers. Provide each with a large basket to carry their wares. Some may be sold at auction. If you desire a floral fair, a morning glory, poppy, sweet pea or rose scheme of decoration may be used with the attendants in floral costumes. A Rainbow Fair would be pretty, with the booths trimmed with the colors of the rainbow. At its end if well planned and successfully carried out the workers might find the proverbial pot of gold. A Chinese Laundry is novel as a variation of the fishpond. Tickets at 10c or 5c are sold by a "Chinaman," who circulates among the people. If the right one is chosen for this job he will be very popular with the little folks. A booth is fixed up as a Chinese laundry, where the children present their tickets and receive their prize package, which is wrapped up as a laundry bundle. Try a Walking Grab Bag.  This may be represented by a lady or man who is witty and original. The costume should contain pockets in all kinds of funny places high for the older children and low for the little folks. 
 [f the fair is held in a large hall, two people costumed differently, one a 5c and the other a 10c grab. The articles chosen to fill the pockets should be of a uniform value and as far as possible should be worth the money invested. A box table containing articles of 25c value is another suggestion. Articles are collected from friends and are useful and fancy articles of value. These are wrapped in boxes of all sizes and sold. The fact that the attacks cannot be seen until purchased lends an element of mystery which warrants quick sales and the quarters count up rapidly with the right person behind the table. A Lemon or Orange Tree is another suggestion. Tie up gifts to represent the fruit chosen. Provide a short stepladder and a pair of blunt-pointed scissors and allow each child to mount and cut down the desired fruit. Here is a novel way to raise money by donation. Select someone to represent the year, who. for the honor conferred, will contribute $1.00 to $5.00. This person must agree to find twelve people to represent the months, each to pay for that privilege 50c. Each month will find four people to represent the week'-: these pay 25c each. Each week will find seven people or days, each day to subscribe 10c. If each day will find twenty four children to give one penny each and the chain is unbroken. a neat sum will be realized. TO PATCH WILL PAPER. Wall paper should never be patched in a square, rectangular shape and must not be cut with knife or scissors, no matter how neatly or correctly the pattern is matched. If done in this way the patch will stare one out of countenance from the first. Professional paper hangers select a piece of paper considerably larger than the spot to be patched and. taking care that the pattern is accurately superimposed, tear out the patch in an irregular oval or circular shape. The edges must be torn off from the front backwards, so that the edge of the patch all around will be beveled toward the pattern perfectly matched. The irregular zigzag border will fade away into the rest of the design, and will not be noticed when dry. Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. National Service. Opportunities for varied service in connection with the present national emergency present themselves to the women of the Relief Society. In addition to the regular relief work of the organization which is always of paramount importance, new duties and responsibilities have come. There will be many ways in which helpful service may be given. Each Relief Society woman will understand best her own possibilities and limitations and will choose to do her part, in this crisis, in the most economic and helpful way. Some societies, particularly those in the farming districts, have been devoting themselves to fond conservation, others located differently have been making, remodeling and laying away clothing, while still others have devoted their sewing meetings to Red Cross work. All of this work is important and commendable. Conservation work along all lines and social service work seem especially fitted for women. Relief Society understand women have the seriousness of the beginning from national food problem "to seemed and have worked individually as well as in connection with the Society, to produce and conserve food for future needs. They have planted beans, corn, potatoes and grain and in some instances have done virtually all of the field labor connected with the production of these crops. They are preserving, drying and canning fruits and vegetables and are practicing the strictest economy in the general management of their homes. The work of food production and preservation is just as important in connection with the war as any other work to be done. The boy who works energetically on a farm is doing as much for his country as is the boy at the front and the woman who produces and conserves food is doing a work as worthy as any work her husband or brother may do in the country's service. Those Societies who desire to take up Red Cross work will find in the following letter, which has been sent out to stake presidents, a plan for co-operating with the Fed Cross. Red Cross Work. To Stake Presidents of the Relief Society. Dear Sisters: [n the present national crisis there are many serious problems confronting the people of our country, among these are the conservation of food and the preparation for relief work as done by the American Red Cross, 
 The Relief Society has already taken steps toward the production, conservation and preservation of food, and from reports that have reached the office, we feel sure that through the efforts of its members the food supply will he greatly increased and very carefully conserved. Some of our members are desirous of assisting with Red Cross work and inquiries have come to the office with regard to it. The General Roard has delayed making definite recommendations in this matter until a plan could be devised whereby Relief Society women who desire to take up Red Cross work may do so in Relief Society groups and be known as Relief Society Red Cross workers, thus maintaining the identity of the Relief Society organization. Red Cross Plan. The plan of the Red Cross organization is to form a Red Cross Chapter in each county and to have the work in the county done under the direction of the Chapter. For convenience. Auxiliaries to the Chapter are formed for the purpose of doing specific work. An Auxiliary must have at least ten paid-up members, including a chairman, secretary and treasurer. Tt is a temporary local organization. Where there is no county Chapter an Auxiliary at Large may be formed. An Auxiliary at Large must have ten paid-up members, and chairman, secretary and treasurer. Tn this case, the work is done under the immediate supervision of headquarters at Washington instead of under the supervision of the count v Chapter. When a Chapter is formed within a county in which an Auxiliary at Large is located, the Auxiliary at Large may become an Auxiliary to the new Chapter. If the Relief Society May Co-operate With the Red Cross. Tt has been deemed best for the Relief Society stake boards to work directly with the county Chapter, where there is one. Accordingly, each stake Relief Society may. if it desires to fin Red Cross work, form an Auxiliary under the direction of its county Chapter. Such an organization must have at least ten paid-up members, including a chairman, secretary and treasurer. Where there is no county organization the Relief Society may form an Auxiliary at Large. This organization must have at least ten paid-up members and a chairman, secretary and treasurer. Tn this case, the work will be under the immediate supervision of the headquarters at Washington, instead of under the supervision of the county Chapter, until such a Chapter is formed within the county in which the Auxiliary at Large is formed. When such a Chapter is formed the Auxiliary at Large becomes an Auxiliary of the new Chapter. Tn using either of the above plans the General Roard NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 511 sugrests that it might be a good thing to have the Auxiliary consist of members of the stake board and a member from each of the wards. A unit thus formed by the Relief Society would be entitled to draw from the Red Cross whatever materials the Society might be able to work up, and the work thus done returned to the Red Cross through the unit. In this way the Relief Society will get credit for all work done by its members and will also be able to make a complete and accurate itemized report of the work done by the Relief Society. Duplicate copies of all reports sent to the Red Cross headquarters should be retained in the stake files. Stake secretaries will be asked to furnish this information  for the General Office. The Relief Society units should bear the name " Stake Relief Society Auxiliary." The General Board suggests that where Red Cross work is taken up, it be done at the work and business meetings. Any woman desiring to join the Red Cross may do so by paying $1.00 annually, but any woman, whether a member or not, may do work under the direction of the Red Cross Auxiliary. All of the members in attendance at the work and business meetings may, therefore, be allowed to assist with the work. The General Board would advise that while rendering this additional service, the Relief Society workers do not neglect the regular relief work of the organization, nor lessen their efforts toward maintaining its standard of efficiency. Very sincerely yours, Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams, Julina L. Smith, Presidency. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building. It is suggested that the stake president of the Relief Society act as chairman of the Relief Society Auxiliary, the stake secretary, as secretary, and the stake treasurer, as treasurer; also that the ward Relief Society president be the ward representative on the Auxiliary. As a great deal of the work of an Auxiliary devolves upon the chairman of supplies, it is suggested that the stake president select for this position one of the stake officers or board members. With this arrangement the stake president will be relieved of much of the detail work. The duty of the chairman of supplies will be to go to the Red Cross Chapter, procure bundles of cut-up and prepared material and distribute into the wards through the official ward representative on the Auxiliary. The ward representative will then be respond 
 for the material and will return the finished articles to the chairman of supplies, who will then forward it to the County CI. a} the of the Red Cross. THE STORY OF A RELIEF SOCIETY HIT) QUILT. Stake. It will be remembered by most of our readers that at the time of the earthquake and fire in San Francisco the Relief Society of the "Mormon" Church was among the first charitable organizations in the country to send aid to the stricken city. Large quantities of flour and non-perishable food stuffs were sent and also many articles of bedding and clothing. The Tooele Relief Society, among other things, sent a warm bed quilt, with the hope that it might he given to someone who was bereft of home and comforts. Mrs. C. R. McBride, the president of the Society, a daughter of the late President Francis M. Lyman and a woman of originality, as well as broad sympathies, conceived the idea of writing a comforting and cheering letter to be pinned inside tin rolled quilt. In this letter she asked that the receiver of the gift send a return message to the Tooele Society, that a thread of sympathy might unite the hearts of those who willingly served with those who gratefully received. In the middle of June. 1916, eleven years later. Mrs. Bride received the following letter from England, which completes the story of the Tooele Relief Society bed quilt. It ap pears that the quilt was not needed in the San Francisco disaster and was turned over to the Red Cross, and through the efforts of -this Society it was placed in a home of need in Eng land. "May 20. 1016. 123 Roan London St. St. Greenwich, London, S. E. 10. "Mrs. Alice A'. McBride, Tooele, Utah. "hi Madam: Vs I received the nice quilt you speak of I thought it my duty to write you at once and express my thanks to you. Tt came in very useful, as I lost mv husband at the front in March. 1916. which came as a great blow to me and my children. T have eight children and three working, but with the state of things now I find I can hardly exist: it is as much as 1 can do to keep going. T cannot go to work myself, as 1 have a baby of three, and four going to school. "Moping you will receive my thanks, "Yours truly, "Mrs.