	(CONCLUDED ON PAGE 48.)


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
ALBERTA STAKE.
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 42.)
to stand up and preside with dignity, and
never say, “I have nothing to say that will
edify,” after having asked our heavenly
Father for His aid.
	Stake President Mary J. Hinman very
much appreciated the presence and good ad-
vice of Aunt Mary, said we would hear a
report this afternoon from our representa-
tive who was in attendance at the recent Re-
lief Society conference held in Salt Lake
City, exhorted the sisters to do all in their
power to cut down family expenses and as-
sist their husbands in obtaining the means
to complete our stake tabernacle, which is
so much needed.
	Missionary Mary E. Smith felt to rejoice
in the spirit of the conference and for the
presence of Sister Woolf. Said this is a
beautiful world, and it rests with us to
make our lives beautiful. There is work for
all to do; let us each do our part cheerfully.
	Sister Adelaide Hunt, a former resident
of Cardston, spoke of the great work that
the Relief Society is capable of accomplish-
ing, and the help it was to her in the early
days of Cardston. Bore testimony to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Sarah Easthope, one of our aged
sisters felt grateful for the blessings of the
Gospel and for the dear sisters who are cap-
able of giving us such good counsel and ad-
vice; felt well paid for coming twenty miles
this morning to attend this conference.
	Sister Payne, another aged sister who had
also rode twenty miles to attend this con-
ference, felt very grateful for t[--]s privilege
of listening to the instructions given; felt
the Lord had greatly blessed her in health.
	President Ella Nelson of the Woolford
branch, bore testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and the good that is being done by
the Relief Society where we have the priv-
ilege of advancing in many ways. She then
blessed the sisters present through the gift
of tongues.
	The interpretation was given by Sister
Elizabeth Hammer. The sisters then ad-
journed to main hall, where Sister Woolf
was again requested to speak to the breth-
ren and sisters.
	Closed by singing Doxology.
	Benediction by Elder William Steed.
	The afternoon session, convened at 2 p. m.
Stake President Mary J. Hinman presiding.
After the usual opening exercises, Stake
Counselor Lydia J. Brown gave an address
of welcome to all present, prayed that we
may have a continuation of the good Spirit
which we so much enjoyed in our morn-
ing meeting.
	Assistant Stake Secretary Rhoda Duce
gave a report of the meetings held and the
instructions given recently at the general
semi-annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety in Salt Lake City. Said among other
things was shown the necessity of testi-
mony bearing as to the divinity of the life
and works of Jesus Christ and the mission
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, also spoke of
the duties of Relief Society teachers. Let
them be instructors of some good thing per-
taining to the Gospel that a good spirit
may be left in the homes of those whom
they visit. Also spoke of other duties
teachers are called upon to perform. Al-
luded to the recent death of our beloved
President Bathsheba W. Smith. President
Emmeline B. Wells had said, let her mem-

[Column 2]
ory ever be kept fresh in our hearts, and
speak often of her good deeds.
	Miss Laverna Wilcox gave a piano solo.
	Sister Mary L. Woolf spoke of the good
spirit and influence felt here today; was
grateful for the many expressions of kind
regard uttered in her behalf. Referred to
the noble band of sisters who preside at the
head of our Relief Society; said the last time
President Bathsheba W. Smith presided in
public during her lifetime, in her address
to the sisters assembled in conference, her
voice being weak, her Counselor, Ida S.
Dusenberry, stood by her side and said,
Sister Smith wishes me to say, we have
heard the expression, that we go up the
ladder until we get to a certain age, then
go down on the other side, but she wished
to say to us, we should go on up, up, until
we step off into eternity. President Smith’s
life ended in just that way. Spoke of the
blessings to be obtained by keeping the
Word of Wisdom.
	Missionary Sarah B. Daines was pleased
with the presence of Sister Woolf; felt she
really belonged to us. Spoke on the subject
of kindness; said let us cultivate kindness
and charity for each other, and of the good
to be derived through attending these meet-
ings; said officers of Primaries and Young
Ladies’ Mutual Improvement associations
would be greatly benefited by listening to
the lectures on mothers’ work, which would
assist them in their work among the chil-
dren. Felt grateful for the gifts of the
Gospel.
	A vocal solo was given by Miss Etta
Dowdle, entitled “Dreaming of Home and
Mother.”
	Missionary Elizab[-]th I. Hammer report-
ed members of the stake board having re-
cently visited the Society in all the wards
but one, found them all in good working
order; said it is a pleasure to have Aunt
Mary with us again; they have lived neigh-
bors since the pioneer days of Alberta. We
should teach our children reverence for sa-
cred things and places.
	Counselor Thomas Duce of the stake
presidency had enjoyed the spirit of the con-
ference, had wished that every sister in the
stake could have been present. Spoke of
the spirit of criticism which is going abroad
said let us keep it out from among us, and
uphold those in authority over us. If we
know this to be the work of the Lord we will
not be disturbed by the actions of others, as
a representative of the stake presidency he
would say they were very much pleased with
the work of the Relief Society in this stake,
was pleased with the presence of Aunt Mary
Woolf; had known her since her girlhood
and appreciated her worth.
	Elder Ephraim Harker, one of the High
Council appointed to assist the Relief So-
ciety, said he felt the same spirit here to-
day that had been enjoyed at the general
conference, and we have received counsel
and instruction that was given there. Felt
thankful that we do not have political dis-
turbances among us. Let us be very careful
to say nothing about any person derogatory

[Column 3]
to character, for we do not always under-
stand.
	Patriarch Henry L. Hinman had enjoyed
listening to the report from headquarters.
Felt that Sister Emmeline B. Wells is the
right one to lead this Society. Although
she is aged, she is very capable and in pos-
session of all her faculties. She is one of
the links which bind the past, the present
and the future together. The Relief Soci-
ety should support her with their faith and
prayers. Said she was acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph Smith and others who have
gone before, and he believed her prayers
would prevail with them in the heavens, for
the benefit of those of us who remain on the
earth. Felt glad for the presence of Aunt
Mary Woolf. Missed very much not hav-
ing Uncle John Woolf with us also. Felt
to bless the sisters of the Relief Society.
	Bishop Dennis E. Harris had very much
enjoyed listening to the good things which
have been said, exhorted parents to have a
watch care over their children, and keep
them off the streets. President Mary J.
Hinman made the closing address, earnestly
reminding the sisters about gathering grain,
etc. Said conference would adjourn for
three months.
	Closed by singing, “God be with you till
we meet again.”
	Benediction by Elder Manly Brown.
JANE W. BATES,
Stake Secretary.

[At the bottom of the page below Columns 2 and 3]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY LADIES' READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS
