WEDDING RECEPTION AT THE BEE
HIVE HOUSE.
“But happy they, the happiest of their kind!
Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings
	blend.”
	A very pretty home wedding was cele-
brated at the Bee Hive House in this city,
Thursday, December 15,1910. Mr. E. Wes-
ley Smith and Miss May Smith were mar-
ried in the Salt Lake Temple at 10 a. m.
President Joseph F. Smith, father of the
bridegroom, performed the ceremony that
united them for time and all eternity.
	The reception was held in the Bee Hive
House in the evening and was a very home-
like affair. The spacious rooms were taste-
fully decorated in colors and the host and
hostess, President Joseph F. and Sister Ju-
lina L. Smith, parents of the bridegroom,
were assisted in receiving by Brother John
Smith and wife, parents of the bride, and
members of the family.
	One corner of the large reception room
was very artistically arranged for the bridal
party with wreaths of holly and beautiful
roses, festooned and garlanded and the new-
ly wedded bride and bridegroom with the
most charming bridesmaids, sisters of the
bridegroom. Misses Rachel and Edith Smith
on the left and on the right, Mr. Gordon
Hyde best man, certainly it was a beauti-
ful picture to look upon as they stood re-
ceiving the numerous guests who came to
greet and congratulate them, and to shower
upon them every good wish for joy and
happiness in their future lives.
	Conversation among the guests, meeting
old friends and acquaintances as well as new
ones seemed quite entertaining, and then
there were the presents to admire, and there
were many of them and in great variety,
refreshments, too, were served in the hand-
some dining room, and each guest had a tiny
box of wedding cake handed round by the
pretty little girls in pink, blue, and white
costumes, and by and bye when the two hun-
dred and fifty people had all been served
and it was really time to say an revoir, there
was a great commotion, and lo and behold
it was the bride throwing her bridal bouquet
of long stemmed white roses among the bevy
of beautiful young ladies.
	The Exponent extends hearty congratula-
tions to the young people just setting
sail on life’s battle ship, and may the winds
and waves be favorable for a long and pros-
perous voyage with only such experiences
as shall cause them to cling close to each
other, and to the Great Pilot who will land
them at last with a heavy freight of Smiths
in a happy haven, where only sweet content
and peace abound; but should rough winds
blow hold together and you will be able to
face all sorts of weather, and come off tri-
umphant.


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.
	Harriet Amelia Folsom Young.
“Death hath made no breach
	In love and sympathy, in hope and trust;
No outward sign, or sound our ears can reach;
But there’s an inward spiritual speech
	That greets us still, tho’ mortal tongues be
		dust.
It bids us do the work that they laid down—
	Take up the song where they broke off the
		strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
	And our lost loved ones will be found again.”

	Sister Amelia F. Young passed away at
her own residence on South Temple and
First West streets in this city, Sunday morn-
ing, at five minutes to four o’clock, Decem- 
ber 11, 1910, after more than three years of
intense suffering and pain.
	How beautiful it is that God giveth His
beloved saints sleep at last, the sleep from
which they wake to enter into the rest that
remains for those who love and serve Him.
	We need not grieve now that she has suf-
fered, for our Father doeth all things well;
we must acknowledge His hand in all that
befalls His children.
	We have missed her from our social gath-
erings, and the places where she visited, for
a long time, and although for many months
we expected she would recover, and once
again come into our midst where she longed
to be, yet latterly we have had to give up all
hope of permanent recovery. The Lord knew
what was best for her, and she has gone to
her beloved husband and joined the happy
group of relatives and friends upon the other,
side, where there is no pain, or sorrow, or
weeping forevermore.
	Sister Young has many friends over there
besides those of her own kindred. In the
early sixties just after coming to Utah, she
became one of the foremost among a wide
circle of beautiful young ladies; quite a num-
ber of this company had left us before Sister
Amelia the names vere familiar to us in the
past though we seldom hear them now. The
old-fashioned parties and ball-rooms never
seemed quite complete without their pres-
ence.
	Closely associated with Amelia Folsom
were Ann Maria Whitney, Julia and Maggie
Lawrence, Sarah Brown, Sarah and Eliza-
beth Kay, Romania Bunnell (now Penrose)
and others whose names would fill these
pages, and only two of those whose names
we mention here are living today. What
memories these names recall, well might
Goldsmith write: “Remembrance wakes
with all her busy train.”
	Sister Amelia filled her own place in the
community, and although she was fond of
her family and had a large circle of friends,
she in no wise depended upon them she
was everywhere and always herself, and her
presence bespoke those dominant and mas-
terful qualities of a woman who could main-
tain her dignity without effort in all places
and at all times: Independent, able to stand
alone; something quite indefinable yet ap-
parent. She had a queenly manner and it
was not assumed.
	Her home was her palace, though she
lived in it many years practically alone with
just one girl, a woman for help. Sister
Amelia entertained occasionally, large
and small parties and was always courteous
to her friends.
	There were times when she had the

[Column 2]
privilege of extending the hospitality of her
house to those who were in need of protec-
tion from their enemies; and she was glad
to have them under her roof; it was a pleas-
ure to her to be able to extend favors to
those who were being persecuted for their 
religious principles, the same principle she
had herself embraced. There was compen-
sation in this, such as only those can under-
stand, who have passed through like experi-
ences.
	Sister Young’s life, written up after the
style of the world, could be made a thrilling
romance. The lives of our Mormon sisters
are replete with romantic incidents.
	Among the many friends of Sister Amelia
later in life we may count the most intimate,
Mrs. Priscilla M. Staines, Mrs. Lizzie Fen-
ton Young and Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings,
these three were really bosom companions,
and with them she traveled abroad. The
journey across the ocean and on the con-
tinent was made during the time Apostle
Brigham Young Jr. was presiding over the
European mission, and was a notable event
in her life; several times afterwards she vis-
ted the larger cities in the United States and
made many acquaintances, Who always re-
membered her, and with some of them she
from time to time corresponded on the sub-
ject of Utah and the religion of our people. 
	Mrs. Young was musical in her tastes, as
well as specially artistic, and inclined to the
sentimental; she played well in former days
and was fond of the old-fashioned songs.
it would seem strange now, but it is never-
theless quite true that “Bingen On The
Rhine,” “Lord Lochinvar,” “The Dismal
Swamp,” “The Mistletoe Bough,” “Deaf
Chloe,” etc., these were the popular songs
of the early days. Of course there were
some with fewer verses and not quite so
dreary.
	Amelia Young was cradled in Mormon-
ism. She was five years old when her father
and mother were baptized in the Niagara
river, and ever afterwards in their journey-
ings hither and thither Mormonism was the
loadstone that led them, and she knew very
little of any other religion, nor did she ever
care to hear any other. She knew in her in-
most heart and soul that the gospel was
true. She realized what her father and moth-
er had passed through because they would 
not deny the faith they had embraced, and
for which they left their home and kindred
and the friends of their youth.
	It seems only a short time since we used
to gather in the home now so desolate, be-
cause of the one who once made it bright
by her cheerful presence and cordial hos-
pitality, and most of those we used to meet
at the sumptuous banquets are gone to the
other side; but those of us who are living
recall with pleasure the happy hours spent
there. Brother Folsom and other brethren
talking of Temple building and the work
for the dead, and of the days of wander-
ing and persecution, and calling up the
names of those most conspicuous in the
earlier scenes, Brigham and Heber and their
associates in the pioneer work of building
and legislating, and founding this Territory; 
but now how few there are who can recount
so vividly—just a few, and the ranks are
thinning almost daily. The scenes change,
the scenery is shifting, and one must be very
alert to grasp the “up to date” ideas and
keep pace with the times in which we are
living.


[Column 1]
They are gathering homeward from every land,
	One by one.
As their weary feet touch the shining strand
	One by one.
		*	*	*	*	*
Before they rest they pass through the strife,
	One by one.
Through the waters of death they enter life,
	One by one.
To some are the floods of the river still—
As they ford on their way to the heavenly hill;
To others the waves run fiercely and wild,
Yet they reach the home of the undefiled
	One by one.”

