WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF JULIA P. LINDSAY.
	Julia Parks Lindsay, daughter of Wil-
liam Parks and Fanny Hyde, was born Feb-
ruary 2, 1824, in Livonia, Livingston coun-
ty, New York.
	My Father, William Parks, was born
March 21, 1787, in the town of Lebanon,
New London County, Connecticut. My
Mother, Fanny Hyde, was born April 21,
1790, in Bethlehem Hartford County, Con-
necticut. The birthplaces of my grandpar-
ents I do not know, but my grandfather,
Elijah Parks, died in 1790 in the town of
Bethlehem, Litchfield County, Connecticut.
When my father was but three years of age
my grandmother, Anna Beaumont, was left
with nine children all at home. Anna Beau-
mont Parks died March 23, in Livonia, Liv-
ingston County, New York, in the spring
of 1850. My grandfather, Benjamin Hyde,
died, I think, in 1830 in New York state.
My grandmother, Mary Umpstead, I have
no knowledge of except her name.
	I resided in the town of Livonia until
the fall of 1831, then moved with my father
and the rest of the family to Euclid, Cuya-
hoga County, Ohio, near Cleveland, and
sixteen miles east of Kirtland. Here I be-
came acquainted with some of the Latter-
day Saints. One of my mother’s sisters be-
longed to that body, living in Kirtland, often
paid us a visit and in process of time my
mother became favorably impressed in re-
gard to this latter-day work. My father
did not like to have them talk on the sub-
ject and finally told my aunt that if she
could not come to visit us without bringing
the Book of Mormon, and talking Mor-
monism, she might stay away. However,
she kept up her visits with us and finally
invited my mother to go home with her, but
my father would not let her go unless he
went for fear she would join the Mormons,
so he accordingly went with them to Kirt-

[Column 2]
land my father attended a Mormon meeting
and became so far convinced of the truth of
the doctrine taught, that he invited Elder
John P. Greene home with him and he
preached in our house. This was the first
sermon I ever heard from an Elder in this
Church. My mother was baptized by Elder
John P. Greene before he left our home
in the town of Euclid, Ohio, 1835. My
father did not join the Church until Jan-
uary 15, 1837. My sisters Fanny, Nancy
and myself were baptized the same day by
Elder Andrew Jackson Squares. Wednes-
day we were confirmed, as members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, by Elder Squares. In answer to my
prayer for a testimony I received the gift
of tongues. My sister Harriet was the first
one of our family that embraced the gospel.
My mother died strong in the faith of the
latter-day work and her last words to Sister
Fanny and myself were to remember the
covenant we had made at the waters of
baptism. My mother died July 6, 1837, in
Euclid, Ohio. Soon after we joined the
Church my father began to prepare to go
to Missouri and in the fall of thirty-nine
we started for the gathering place of the
Saints. We arrived in Louisiana in Pike
County, Missouri some time in October,
1839. Here we were met by the brethren
leaving the state and they said it was of no
use to proceed any farther as the Saints
were all required to leave the state, at the
point of the bayonet. Accordingly we re-
mained on the Illinois side of the river and
my father and brothers and brother-in-law
hired out for the winter cutting cordwood
for Burnet, who owned the Steam Ferry
at that place. My father and the boys
built three small log cabins near the river
in the midst of the timber. Here we lived
until spring, and as my father was a mason
by trade the people in Louisiana wished us
to move into the town which we did, and
father and my brothers worked at masonry.
The following fall we moved to the town
of Clinton, about half a mile below Louisi-
ana. While living here there occurred an
incident which might be interesting to note.
	One day as we were seated around the
table, I happened to look out toward the
river and saw a man about a rod from the
shore, walking out into the river. I knew
the water was very deep and I called the
neighbors close by to come and see this
man walking on the water. The ferry-boat
had started out his way and we were in
hopes the ferry-man would pick the stran-
ger up, but they did not take any notice of
him. We watched him until he reached the
other shore and saw him go up out of the
water, climb over the fence and go into the
timber. My father afterward inquired of
the ferry-men if they had seen any body
walking on the river, but they said they had
not. There were eight persons in our party
who saw this strange man as plain as could
be, without any imagination. He seemed to
be ankle-deep in the water which rippled
behind him as he walked. He wore a frock
coat and a stove-pipe hat. Other people
laughed and said “The Mormons had seen
Joe Smith walking on the river.” As the
Saints had no abiding place my father
bought a farm four miles from the town of
Louisiana and took his family there where
we lived until the Saints located in Nauvoo.
My father prepared to go to the main body
of the Church. He had a large family to
support and I was living with my brother

[Column 3]
working for my own support. I thought if
would be better for me to remain with my
brother where I was sure of work, I did not
go to Nauvoo until after the death of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hy-
rum Smith. As soon as I heard of their
death I began to prepare to leave my broth-
er and my associates and go to my father,
and if I could get work there I would stay.
I took the steamboat and landed in Nauvoo
July 14, 1844. I have never seen but two.
of my family since. One of my brothers
came to see me at Council Bluffs and my
youngest brother came to see me since I
have been in Bear Lake County he was
on his way to California. Shortly after I
moved to Nauvoo I found plenty of work
and accordingly I stayed, and in course of
time I became acquainted with a young man
by the name of William B. Lindsay and in
February 19, 1845 we were married, and
in the spring we went back to his fathers’
in Wisconsin, as he thought he could do
better there, and he wished me to go with
him, but I did not feel willing to go away
from the main body of the Church. I was
willing to stay and do the best I could un-
til he returned. As there was not much
work to be had in Nauvoo and we had to
prepare to live, and as there was consid-
erable excitement we expected the Saints
would have to find a home in some other
land and it would require considerable
means to prepare for the journey; my hus-
band went and returned some time in June.
The following winter the mob was contin-
ually hunting for some one of our brethren
and the Saints began to prepare to start to
the Rocky Mountains, and in February,
1846, there was a company fitted up and
crossed the Mississippi in the cold bleak
winter. My husband was called to go as
one of the guards and my sister Fanny and
were left and lived together until anoth-
er company, was about ready to start. I
had the opportunity of going with my broth-
er-in-law. I felt very anxious to go for I
had heard that my husband was quite sick
with the measles and I knew that he would
be exposed to the cold and would not have
much to comfort him and although I felt
very loath to leave my dear sister yet I
felt it a duty to go. I started in a very rainy
spring and the roads were bad. I trav-
eled a whole week and never got into a
wagon to ride. Some days we would only
go two miles. I did not overtake my hus-
band until I got to Garden Grove. He was
just getting so that he could work a little.
When we got as far as Pisgah we found
quite a number of the Saints camped and
as our teams were tired we thought it best
to rest there and make ourselves as com-
fortable as our circumstances would permit.
The brethren cleared a small piece of land
and put in a garden so that in the course
of six weeks we had plenty of garden stuffs
to eat. This was a great blessing as we
had been without all summer.
