		BIOGRAPHICAL.
	The parents of Mrs. Young, wife of the
late President Brigham Young, were of the
New England Puritan families. Her father
Wm. H. Folsom was born in Portsmouth,
New Hampshire, and her mother Zurviah
Eliza Clark, in West Suffolk, Conn. Miss
Clark was educated for a teacher and went
west to Ohio to teach school. The father,
a young man, must have drifted westward
too, for it was in Ohio they were married,
but subsequently made their home in Buf-
falo, New York. It was there Amelia the
first child was born, August 23, 1838.
	We have neither time nor space to tell
the story of Amelia’s girlhood, we know
however, she grew up a beautiful girl, and
was always exceedingly popular, she taught
school in Omaha in the early-days of that
city, just previous to coming to Utah in
1860, and on her arrival in Salt Lake City
she was the favorite partner at all the balls
and parties; she had many offers of mar-
riage (according to report) but finally made
choice of President Brigham Young, which
is not at all surprising to any of us who
know him well, for he was a “courtly gentle-
man of that early time.” The marriage was
solemnized on the 24 of January, 1863. Of
subsequent events the public are familiar,
Sister Amelia was almost his constant com-
panion in his journeyings through the Stakes
of Zion, among the people.
	The wives previously married had homes
and interests that required the mothers and
President Young needed at that time of life
constant attention; he had endured great
hardships in early life and pioneering a new
country, founding a Territory is not only
physically wearing on the body but a contin-
uous mental strain. In his travels among
the people, the spiritual welfare and pro-
gress was not all, he could see at a glance
what was necessary to better their temporal
conditions in every settlement he visited, or
passed through; the most remarkable man
in these respects we have ever known. Sis-
ter Amelia was not only faithfully devoted to
him as a wife should be, but she was a na-
tural nurse and through her delicate effici-
ency in this respect became necessary to him,
which possibly gave rise to the current re-
port of her being “the favorite wife.”
	Sister Amelia was one of the women who
could make a home beautiful, and who loved
her own house and was fondly attached to
the surroundings; she cultivated flowers and
vines and was anxious to make the home at-
tractive outside as well as inside. She was
industrious and an excellent manager. She
delighted in making her friends happy and
loved the society of young people, but was
also particularly tender and deferential to
those in years. Her home was really a haven
of rest to her until during her last illness
she suffered so intensely that there seemed
no alleviation of pain.

[Column 2]
	During all those weary months and years
by night and by day she was most tenderly
ministered to and cared for by her own im-
mediate family. One sister remained with
her during the entire time. Sister Frances
Wallace, her other sister Louise Brown
was with her always when it was possible to
be away from her husband and children. Her
brothers Hyrum, Burdette and Hinman Fol-
som were devoted to her in their attentions
and gave all possible assistance. In fact she
had the very best care and from those who
loved her tenderly.
	Sister Amelia will be greatly missed in
her own family and by her friends, whom
she was fond of entertaining, associated with
members of the Young family, who appreci-
ated those social house parties, and on all
these occasions there was an atmosphere of
refinement and good fellowship.
	In a certain sense Sister Amelia was a
host in herself, she had superb moral cour-
age, and self-confidence and was quite cap-
able of standing alone, notwithstanding in
her married life she never had that experi-
ence.

“My much loved sister, thou hast reached the
		goal;
	The dark dull river
Is crossed, and thy enfranchised soul
	Is with the Giver.”

	Sister Amelia Young’s death was peaceful
at last after all her pain and suffering and
it must have been a happy release, and no
doubt she was warmly welcomed after pass-
ing through the change by those loved ones
who had preceded her.

	“Beyond life’s trials and cares,
Its hopes and joys, its weariness and sorrow,
Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
Will be a long sweet life unmarked by years,
	One bright unending morrow!”

	The funeral services of Sister Amelia F.
Young were held in the Fourteenth ward
chapel in this city, Bishop Elias S. Woodruff
presiding.
	The hall was artistically draped in white,
and the many floral tributes about the plat-
form and in and around the bier gave the
appearance of a festival of flowers, rather
than funereal gloom. On the stand and
platform were the speakers and many old
and faithful friends of President Young.
The services opened by the singing of
“Sometime We’ll Understand,” by a quar-
tet, beautifully rendered. Prayer was of-
fered by Bishop George Romney. The quar-
tet rendered “O My Father.” President
Seymour B. Young was the first speaker,
he paid a loving and glowing tribute to his
Aunt Amelia, recounting many incidents in
her life experience and particularly her loyal
devotion to his uncle Brigham, in his de-
clining years and his last illness; he especi-
ally blest the mourners and friends, and al-
luded to her as the embodiment of honor
and goodness.
	Miss Edith Grant sang very sympatheti-
cally, as a solo, “Who are these arrayed in
white.”
	President Richard W. Young, grandson
of President Brigham Young, spoke at the
request of the family, he gave a very concise
and vivid portrait of her character and
summed up briefly the remarkable incidents
and circumstances connected with her life
in the family of which she was a member
nearly half a century. His remarks were
greatly appreciated as they were upon mat-

[Column 3]
ters not understood by those not familiar
with the Young family history.
	The quartet then sang, “I have read of a
beautiful city.”
	Elder Heber J. Grant in his remarks said
he had known Sister Amelia since he was
six years old and had greatly admired her,
but had not been so intimately associated
as with Sisters Emily Partridge and Lucy
Decker Young, those two of the wives of
Brigham Young he had loved and rever-
enced almost as much as his own mother, he
said no higher tribute could be paid Sister
Amelia than the fact that President Young’s
wives loved his young wife. He closed by
saying, “May we all be as faithful as this sis-
ter has been.”
	President Francis M. Lyman had been well
acquainted with Sister Amelia said they were
nearly the same age; alluded to her many
estimable qualities, thought her a very re-
markable woman; she had been for some
years a great sufferer and her death was a
great relief, he rejoiced that he had known
her and her sterling integrity said, may
the Lord help us to follow so excellent an
example.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, who had
known Sister Amelia more than half a cen-
tury spoke of her exceptional ability in
places of trust and importance in the trans-
action of business, and of her rare accom-
plishments in entertaining strangers, especi-
ally distinguished people, either at home or
in public gatherings, she had often been
spoken of as a magnificent queenly woman.
Sister Amelia could be depended upon, never
slighted her friends or passed them by, she
was a strong character, an ardent woman
suffragist. Miss Anthony was very proud
to introduce her to celebrities in Washington
as the wife of Brigham Young. Mrs. Wells
spoke with much sympathetic feeling of the
bond of friendship which united them and
of the many excellent qualities Sister Amelia
possessed.
	The closing hymn, “Sister thou wast mild
and lovely,” was rendered by the quartet,
and the service dismissed with prayer by
Patriarch John Smith.
	Many carriages filled with mourning
friends followed the hearse to the final rest-
ing  place of the deceased. The coffin was
deposited in a vault. Elder Hiram Folsom
dedicated the grave, after the grave was cov-
ered the many beautiful gifts of flowers were
tenderly laid upon the mound, the last tribute
to her memory of loving relatives and
friends.


