WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	Semi-annual conference of Liberty Stake
Relief Society convened Dec. 8, 1910, at 10
a. m. and 2 p. m., President Anna S. Mus-
ser presiding. After the opening exercises,
and the solo entitled, “I know that my Re-
deemer Liveth,” by Sister Eva James, Pres-
dent Musser warmly greeted the sisters,
and gave some good instructions.
	Miss McDonald sang a solo.
	Counselor Mary E. Hodgson, gave some
instructions to ward secretaries, also paid
a tribute to our president, Anna S. Musser,
her many noble qualities, her charitableness,
and the performance of her duties, under
the most trying circumstances, to which
President Musser responded.
	Reports were given of the Tenth, Thirty-
first, Thirty-third, Liberty and Emigra-
tion wards. All were reported as progress-
ing favorably and in the line of their duty.
	Sister Louisa Dunbar rendered the solo
entitled “At the Manger.”
	Elder C. W. Symonds felt that he was
elevated, by associating with the sisters, in
the hearing of their noble works, encour-
aged us to speak of the good deeds per-
formed by our fellow laborers, while on
earth, and not wait until they had passed
away, also spoke of the promises made by
the Lord to his people being fulfilled.
	After closing exercises meeting ad-
journed until 2 o’clock.
	Delicious refreshments were served be-
tween the meetings, and a musical program
rendered.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock, and
after the opening exercises, Sister Maud
Kenner sang the solo entitled, “There’s a
Green Hill Far Away.”
	Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley was pleased
with the good atendance, and thought that
this was a grand and glorious work, and
that we would be blessed in our labors.
	Elder Joseph E. Taylor gave a talk on
the signs of the times, which was very in-
structive, and listened to with interest.
	A duet was rendered by Sisters Iretta
Jackson and Florence Barney.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, who visited the
conference by special appointment, spoke
about the Christmas spirit of love and com-
munion, to help us to walk in the foot-steps
of our Savior. Related some of her experi-

[Column 2]
ences while traveling in foreign lands and in
the Holy Land, also at home.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to
make the conference a success. After the
solo entitled “God be with you until we
meet again,” by Sister Eva James, and ben-
ediction by Sister Emma Maw, conference
adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS,
							Secretary.

