		ONEIDA STAKE.
	Semi-annual conference of the Oneida
Stake Relief Society was held Nov. 5, 1910,
in the Oneida Stake Academy.
	Counselor Lucy D. Parkinson presided.
Sister Benson was absent, due to the illness
of her daughter.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams and Dr.
Romania B. Penrose of the General Society
were present.
	After opening exercises, a solo was ren-
dered, “A prayer for faith,” by Mae Nel-
son.
	A lesson on the Organization and Gov-
ernment of the Relief Society was given by
Chloe L. M. Howell.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams of the
General Relief Society addressed the con-
ference on various topics. Expressed joy
at being present; spoke of the life and
death of President Bathsheba W. Smith;
the election and works of Sister E. B.
Wells; the organization and magnitude of
Relief Society work, and our great oppor-
tunities for extending our influence abroad.
	Dr. Penrose endorsed what had been said
and addressed the conference on the pro-
gress of Mormonism and the success of mis-
sionaries, especially the lady missionaries.
Spoke of the beauties of the Gospel, the joy
of living and appreciation of our bless-
ings.
	Counselor Lucy D. Parkinson explained
that as a lecture was to be given by Gover-
nor Brady of Idaho this evening, it had been
proposed that we adjourn for one hour in-
stead of two for noon, and probably have the
opportunity of hearing him. This was voted
on by those present, and it was decided to
adjourn for one hour only.
	Singing, “Do what is right.”
	Benediction, Hannah Corbridge.
	At the afternoon session of conference
many leading brethren were present. After
usual exercises, a report showing all asso-
ciations of the Relief Society in good con-
dition was given by Linda N. Benson, stake
secretary.
	Duet, “The morning breaks,” Otto John-
son and daughter.
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose addressed the
conference on the value of the Gospel, the
work of Elders abroad, and living to gain
a title for eternal life. The value of time,
the evils of card parties, and extremes of
fashion; admonished all to be kind, sociable,
and to give words of joy and hope.
	Piano duet, Eva Johnson and Marinda
Larson.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams said that
the Oneida Stake Relief Society was among
the best, and that the President, Louisa B.
Benson, was progressive, wide awake, and
the General Board loved her and appreci-
ated her labors; also spoke upon woman’s
suffrage, and the extension of Relief Society
work; advised all to shun games of chance,
cards, wine, etc.; to attend the church

[Column 3]
meetings and not join secret societies.
	President Geddes endorsed what had been
said, and portrayed the beauties of living a
good life in the Gospel of Christ, and the
need of preparation for motherhood.
	Closing remarks were given by Coun-
selor Lucy D. Parkinson, and conference
was adjourned for six months. 
	Singing, “Beautiful Zion.”
	Benediction, Counselor James Johnson.
			LINDA N. BENSON,
							Cor. Secy.

