Its lofty spirit, conscious, living soul,
Is sovereign power, in Nature’s complex roll;
The God of Nature’s own co-working pride;
Thank God that Life and Mind have never died!
	Elizabeth, N. J., Oct. 18, 1910.


[Column 1]
		THE HOLIDAY SEASON.
	The spirit of Christmas and the advent of
the new year bring with them more or less
rejoicing and good fellowship that gives
zest to whatever is undertaken of a private
or public nature; yet in a way it is some-
what strenuous, and we are all sort of re-
lieved when the pastimes and many require-
ments made upon the homes and the public
are over, if we have satisfied our own con-
sciences and are at peace with neighbors
and friends, if not with all mankind. Really
most of us loyal women folks do our best and
we are more or less practical and quite un-
selfish. We love our friends sincerely and
we are aiming to be just, as well as gener-
ous in our exchange of tokens of love and
family greetings. In good works and deeds
of kindness, the Latter-day Saints ought to
lead out, we have had more truths taught
us concerning the Savior and His advent
upon the earth than any other people. If
we as a people cherish unkindness and ill-
feeling when we ought only to have love to-
ward all men it will recoil upon ourselves
and we shall be the victims of our own
maliciousness.
	Perhaps there was more jollity and friv-
olity this year in Salt Lake than heretofore,
but there are more people and more enter-
tainments.
	The city is more thickly settled and there
are more places, more resorts of various
kinds and it will naturally be more puzzling
for the young people to select, even with the 
help of wiser heads, the best companions and
safest places to enjoy the merriment and
festivities of the holiday week.
	The young people in the mutual associ-
ations are provided with all care and
thought for these occasions, and need have
no doubts or apprehensions, if they are in
the line of duty; for others outside of like
institutions who drift hither and thither
there is great danger, especially those away
from home influences.
	The question is frequently asked, “What
shall we do with our girls? What shall we
do with our boys?” All sorts of theories
are submitted through the public press,
but the real panacea has not yet been found.
	Mormonism, so-called, has done more in
this line of parentage and caring for one’s
own than other systems, notwithstand-
ing the people having been driven from
place to place and building here and there,
yet because of the patriarchal order of the
family relations they have held together in
sacred bonds.
	Again, the priesthood unites closely the
men who hold it, and all who are worthy
are included. In this our young men are
safe, if they yield obedience.
	The young women and girls are cared
for in auxiliary organizations throughout
the Church, and are carefully guided in all
the various labyrinths of life. The system
is perfect for protection so far as it is pos-
sible.
	Educationally, those who have not had the
advantages such as schools afford here (it is

[Column 2]
known many gather from foreign lands) for
all that can be done to help them forward
has been sought for and much achieved. If
in anything we are lacking it is in the in-
dustrial lines; at one time we had good suc-
cess in the silk industry which gave employ-
ment to many, but in consequence of cir-
cumstances it has lain dormant of late.
	We have an army of nurses trained un-
der the women physicians here; and domes-
tic science is taught in all our schools and
institutions of learning.
	This Christmas season and the New Year
were particularly significant of good will
and loving remembrances; although possi-
bly not so many expensive presents were
given and received as in recent years, and
that is better whatever the cause may have
been; parties, theatres, weddings, musicales
were numerous and to those who were mix-
ing in the merry throngs, judging by society
paragraphs this must have surpassed in
dress and display any other season in our
famous city.
	Among those who choose the quieter ways
of spending holiday evenings there were
many delightfully social home and family
gatherings, where meeting and greeting
kindly faces and conversing of the home
matters, getting near to each other and see-
ing the new babies; these are more delight-
ful than the grand receptions in the great
houses of the rich, even though the halls
are hung with paintings from abroad by
great artists, and the libraries are filled with
choicest volumes.
	After all new babies fresh from paradise
are far more interesting, and more of a
study than old paintings, however celebrated
the artists. Some of us in this day of hur-
ry and worry do not get acquainted with
the babies in our own families. Christmas
and New Years are sort of family reunions
and that is right and proper, but we have
some of us social duties we neglect, and
excuse ourselves for lack of time, and yet
we are not altogether blameless; we should
now and then call upon old friends, we re-
gret occasionally when we hear of their de-
parture to the other side, we excuse our-
selves because of trivial things sometimes,
but let us try sisters, during this year, to
pay some of the calls we have promised on
the friends of former days.
	This is a good new year, the very best
we could have, good weather, beautiful
snow, fine skating, all sorts of good pros-
pects, the Lord has dealt bountifully with
His people, the times are peaceful—cer-
tainly the Latter-day Saints are at peace
with all mankind, and the year nineteen
hundred and eleven has opened propitiously.
	Our Elders and women missionaries
abroad and in our own land are doing a
good work and meeting with success, there-
fore we have reason to be glad that the Gos-
pel is spreading, faith is increasing, but yet
we have not as a people attained to the
blessing, we might enjoy if we cultivate faith
as the vital principle of our lives, and it is in
itself a force. Father Joseph Smith the first


patriarch of the Church, used to say “faith
was energy and energy was faith.” Sister
Eliza R. Snow heard it from his own lips, and
often related it to the writer. As a people
we do not cultivate faith in our inner selves
as we should, we are not as rich in faith
as we might be, if we but have the implicit
faith in prayer that will bring the desired
blessing. We are all aware of the principle
of faith as taught by our Savior in the
New Testament, and what mighty things
were accomplished thereby, we all know
enough, we all believe in faith, but do we
practice it in our every-day lives, as we
should considering who we are, and that
light has come into the world, and that with-
