“LIFE LINES” BY ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
	“Life Lines” is a new book of poems just
ssued, published by Skelton Pub. Co., in this
city. The book is unique in appearance, be-
ing in white and gold and the engraving on
the cover a ship just coming to anchor with
lines thrown out. It is quite different to
any book by a home author both in cover
and illustration. The book contains over
three hundred pages and is printed on clear
white paper in the best of type, and well
bound, in fact it is “up to date” in style and
finish.
	The poems have been written at various
periods from childhood to the present, cov-
ering half a century of time. These verses
are from the heart of a woman who has felt
keenly all that she has written, and much
more that is unexpressed; they might ap-
propriately be called “heart throbs.”
	It would be cruel to judge a poet while
living, though it is true we do, and some-
times harshly, but that we often make re-
marks that are unfair in speaking, but in
writing we should be particularly careful to
avoid criticism, as none of us are perfect
in our work or in our style.
	However, we have only fair words of
praise for this book and the poet; the wonder
is that in view of all the circumstances she
had the courage to launch a book upon the
market at this particular time.
	We are proud of every “Mormon” wom-
an who has brought out a volume either of
prose or poetry, and we rejoice in the as-
surance that there will yet be many libraries
of our works of our own people instead of a
book here and there—and we predict many
of these books yet to appear will be writ-
ten by women.
	Many of these poems date back to a time
when there was no electric light or gas,
and only wood-fires to sit by in the evening,
but thoughts were as poetic, as when lights
are brilliant, and Ellis Shipp has always been
an early riser, and like Sister Eliza R. Snow,
could write in the morning.
	It will be recalled by those who see the
book “Life Lines,” that the author is a doc-
tor, a graduated physician, and has practiced
more than thirty years; meantime has trav-
eled much in this western country from Can-
ada to Mexico, and in several of the largest
cities of the east, and has a wide experi-
ence among people of many communities.
This is all helpful to a writer giving new im-
petus and increasing stores of information.
	Perhaps one of the poems that would
specially please many of our people, those
who crossed the plains in early days—would
be—“The Grave in the Desert”—and the
only very long poem is entitled, “The Life
Celestial” divided into several parts and
covers about forty-seven pages, the first sub-
heading is a prelude entitled “Meditation,”
and is admirably written in a very lofty and
impassioned style. It is not exactly Hebraic
but tends towards that form of composition.
	Some of the dainty verses are very sweet.
“Aunt Zina’s Jewels,” “The First Rose of
Summer,” “Dawn,” “Echoes,” “Faded
Flowers.” The poem to “My Father” is
very touching, and the one entitled “Pro-
gress” is certainly one of the very best in
point of merit. One could go on summing
up the sweetest and best, but where there is
great variety it is not easy to select, but we
recommend the book as an excellent one for
the young people to read, and to select from
for recitations, and we hope the ship (the


book) just landed in this fair haven laden
with precious gems more valuable than gold
or silver that perisheth may prove a suc-
cess in many ways.
	May the seeds of truth contained in these
poems germinate and bear fruit that shall
permeate the hearts of the youth of Zion,
and the ship o’er laden drifting from port to
port reach many a weary pilgrim tossed on
tempestuous seas—who may find comfort
in the brave heroic utterances of a woman
physician, poet and heroine.


