THE PROPHET’S BIRTHDAY.
On this day long years ago
	The Modem Prophet came
And magnified the Word of God,
	He made the Gospel plain.
Revere his natal day,
	Loving thoughts have sway.
His noble life twixt joy and strife
	Made great his name for aye.

His life was short but full of zeal
	Unto the martyred end,
He struggled on to do God’s will,
	And boldly did defend
The Word he came to bring.
	O loudly let us sing!
’Twill save us all, both great and small.
	It is a glorious thing!

O’er four score years now it has been
	And still the work goes on,
Increased each year by honest souls
	Who’ll join with us in song.
Hail the glorious day
December twenty-three,
Our Prophet’s day we’ll love alway,
	Throughout eterntiy.
				—Hattie C. Jenson.


[Column 1]
	LUCY WALKER KIMBALL.
		Autobiography.
	(Continued from page 34.)
	The Prophet Joseph Smith often referred
to the feelings that should exist between
husbands and wives. He said men should
beware how they treat their wives, that they
were given them for a holy purpose, and he
also said many should awake on the morn-
ing of the resurection sadly disappointed for
they, by transgression, would have neither
wives nor children, for they surely would be
taken from them and given to those who 
should prove themselves worthy.
	President Joseph Smith taught me the
principle of plural marriage, which, after
much serious thought and prayer for many
months, I became convinced that the prin-
ciple was revealed from heaven, and on the
first day of May, 1843, I consented to be-
come the Prophet’s wife, and was sealed to
him for time and all eternity at his own
house by Elder William Clayton.
	Today I have but one regret which is
that I have not been a more worthy repre-
sentative of the principle of plural mar-
riage, and that I have not lived a more per-
fect life. I can also state that Emma Smith
was present and did consent to Eliza and
Emily Partridge, also Maria and Sarah
Lawrence being sealed to her husband. This
I had from the Prophet’s own mouth, also
the testimony of her niece, Hyrum Smith’s
eldest daughter (my brother Lorin’s wife)
as well as that of the young ladies named

[Column 2]
themselves with whom I was on most inti-
mate terms and was glad that they, too, had
accepted that order of marriage. Instead of
a feeling of jealousy it was a source of com-
fort to me. We were as sisters to each other.
	In this I acted in accordance with the will
of God. Not for any worldly aggrandize-
ment, not for the gratification of the flesh.
How can it be said that we accepted this 
principle for any lustful desires? Preposter-
ous. This would be utterly impossible. But,
as I said before, we accepted it to obey a
command of God, to establish a principle
that would benefit the human family and
emancipate them from the degradation into
which they had fallen through their wicked
customs.
	Since 1845 I have been the wife of Presi-
dent Heber C. Kimball by whom I have had
nine children, five sons and four daughters; 
have lived in the same house with other
members of his family, have loved them as
dearly as my own sisters, until it became
necessary as our children began to grow up
around us to have separate homes. Every
mother has her own mode of government
and as children grow in years it is more
pleasant to have them under the immediate
dictation of their own mother. I can truth-
fully state, however, that there is less room
for jealousy where wives live under the same
roof. They become interested in each oth-
er’s welfare; they love the other’s children;
besides, in my experience I find the children
themselves love each other as dearly as the
children of one mother. In sickness, it has
been a pleasure to minister to those in need
of assistance. I will say here, too, that it is
a grand school. You learn self control, self-
denial, it brings out the nobler traits of our
fallen natures, and teaches us to study and
subdue self, while we become acquainted
with the peculiar characteristics of each oth-
er. There is a grand opportunity to im-
prove ourselves and the lessons learned in a 
few years are worth the experience of a life-
time for this reason, that you are better pre-
pared to make a home happy. You can eas-
ily avoid many unpleasant features of do-
mestic life that through inexperience you
otherwise are unprepared to meet. The study
of human nature is a grand study.
	Heber C. Kimball was a noble whole-
souled son of God and was as capable of 
loving more than one woman as God Him-
self is capable of loving all His creations.
	Sister Vilate Murray Kimball, first wife
of Heber C. Kimball, was one of the noble
women of the earth. She was dearly beloved
by his wives and children as well as by all
who intimately knew her. Too little has
been said of her exemplary life. She was a 
ministering angel to those in distress, ever
ready to aid those who had not been so for-
tunate as herself in regard to the comforts
of life. She never seemed so happy as while
seeking to make others happy. Every year
it was her custom to invite all the family to
dine at her table and insisted that it was her
privilege to wait upon and make them happy
and comfortable. In her last sickness she
expressed her regret that she could no long-
er have the pleasure of seeing the family to-
gether as she had been in the habit of doing.
On one occasion, as she had done in former 
years, she answered, “You must excuse me,
as our own family has grown so large that
by the time I visit them all I want to be-
gin the rounds again.” This shows the
good feelings she cherished towards her hus-
band’s wives and children. Too much can-

[Column 3]
not be said of her example. In her demise,
Zion lost one of her noblest daughters.
	Very sincerely,
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
