EDITORAL NOTES.
	The secretaries of the Relief Society in
all the stakes of Zion, and also in missions
and branches here in our own country and
in foreign lands are requested to make com-
plete reports of statistical and financial con-
ditions for the year 1910 from January 1
to December 31, of said year. It is also
requested that any changes made in officers,
new organizations effected, and in fact any
matter of importance pertaining to the work
of the Society be given in addition to the
report. This notice is official.
	The Vermont party, as it was called, held
in the Social Hall in this city on the anni-
versary of the Prophet Joseph Smith’s birth-
day was a great success socially. The Ver-
mont dinner was in all respects typical of
New England, chicken pie with all the es-
sential viands that belong thereto, baked
beans, brown bread, pumpkin pie and ginger-
bread and nuts and raisins, one need not
go into particulars, the cooking was of the
best quality and the dinner in the way of
enjoyment was all that could be desired by
the most fastidious. There was some fine
music and a little pleasantry, in which a few
participated; some recitations were given
also a fine reading by Miss Maude May Bab-
cock. President Joseph F. Smith made an
excellent address alluding to the trip to Ver-
mont taken in the winter of 1905, and the
event is commemorated each year a custom
which has become sort of permanent now.
President Smith in his remarks told many
interesting things pertaining to the building
of the monument and paid a high tribute
of praise to Jenius F. Wells, whose perse-
verance under conditions had been quite re-
markable; mentioned that some pictures had
arrived that day and been hung in the hall,
they were scenes from the historic grounds.
Booklet souvenirs were given to all the
guests, containing views of the birthplace,
the monument, etc. Dr. Seymour B. Young
led in singing, “Onward Christian Soldiers,”
and the exercises closed with a benedic-
tion. The party was very enjoyable and
great credit is due the young women, who
made it possible to have such an old-fash-
ioned dinner, such excellent cooking, and
the young girls who waited upon the table,
most of them the President’s daughters,
were dainty and sweet in white, and served
the company sumptuously.


