SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	JANUARY, 1911


[Column 1]
	OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
Official announcement of the organization
of the General Presidency of the Relief So-
ciety.
	To the officers and members of the sev-
eral stakes, missions and branches of the
Relief Society in the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in all the world:—
	In the dispensations of our Heavenly
Father, whose hand we acknowledge in all
that pertains to our work here on earth,
the Relief Society has been called to part
with its faithful and honored leader and
President, Bathsheba W. Smith, after a long
life of continued labor and ministrations
in the Relief Society and in the Salt Lake
Temple. In both these positions, she was
ever faithful and true.
	She was called to preside over the Relief
Society, October 31, 1901, successor to Sis-
ter Zina D. H. Young, and was sustained
by vote of the special conference of the
Church, held in the tabernacle in this city,
November 10, 1901.
	We thank the Lord for Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith’s life and labors and those asso-
ciated with her in the work, and for those
great and valiant women, who preceded her,
and we humbly pray that we may be able
to carry on the work of which these great
and heroic women laid the foundation, and
builded so splendidly thereon.
	At a meeting of the General Board of the
Relief Society, held in the Relief Society
headquarters, in the Bishops’ Building, Mon-
day, October 3, 1910, Presidents Anthon
H. Lund and John Henry Smith, being
present, the General Board were notified
that Sister Emmeline B. Wells had been se-
lected as President of the Relief Society with
Sister Clarissa S. Williams, first counselor,
and Sister Julina L. Smith, second counselor.
	At the General Conference of the Church,
held October 6, 1910, in the tabernacle in
this city, the president and counselors, pre-
viously appointed were sustained by unani-
mous vote of the conference.
	We humbly desire to aid in the great work

[Column 2]
of the Relief Society, unitedly with our
sisters throughout the world. We have not
taken this responsibility upon ourselves, but
have been called by the Holy Priesthood
and we pray earnestly that we may be able,
to magnify the callings given to us of the
Lord, and to do so acceptably, we shall
need the faith and support of the First Pres-
idency, the Apostles, Presiding Bishops,
Presidents of Stakes, and Bishops, whom we
ever feel to uphold and with whom, we de-
sire to work in harmony and to merit at
all times, their confidence and blessing.
	(Signed.)
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					President.
			CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS,
					First Counselor.
			JULINA L. SMITH,
					Second Counselor.


