		ALBERTA STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Alberta
Stake Relief Society met at 10 a. m., on
Nov. 15, 1910, in the Cardston Assembly
Hall, with the Priesthood and auxiliaries,
for preliminary exercises, after which the
Relief Society sisters adjourned into the Re-
lief Society hall.
	Stake President Mary J. Hinman pre-
sided. After the usual exercises, Stake
Counselor Rhoda C. Hinman gave the open-
ing address, welcoming the goodly number
present, and especially our dear sister Mary
L. Woolf, who is present with us today,
she having been our first president in Card-
ston, when that Society was organized,
twenty-three years ago, which position she
held until the Alberta stake was organized,
when she was called and set apart as pres-
ident over all the Relief Society in Al-
berta on August 20th, 1894, which position
she held till a year ago, when she re-
moved to Utah to make her home there
and care for her aged mother and look up
family genealogy. Aunt Rhoda spoke of the
divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Said she well remembered the time when the
Relief Society was first organized by him;
said we should be proud of a name and a
standing in a Church that has withstood so
many trials and persecutions, for it can be
plainly seen the hand of the Lord has been
over this people. Said we should be very
careful to not say anything against those
who are placed in authority over us before
our children to cause them to lose confidence
in any person whom it is their duty to sus-
tain.
	Sister Mary L. Woolf felt almost too
full of love and gratitude to express her
feelings in the joy of being with her rela-
tives and friends here once more. Felt
a desire to do good wherever her lot might
be cast. Spoke of the duties of mothers, and
of the advancement made in Relief Society
work, and the benefit mothers’ work is to
us all and especially young mothers in rais-
ing their children. Referred to her home
life in Utah, and of her aged mother, Sis-
ter Elizabeth Howe Hyde, who is now past
ninety-seven years of age, enjoys doing work
in the Temple whenever an opportunity af-
fords, living within a short distance of the
Logan Temple. Referred to the duty wives
owe to their husbands, being willing to hum-
ble themselves in their little differences,
keeping a good spirit always in the home;
felt the sisters could be missionaries among
their associates, and do much good in ac-
companying their children to their parties
and socials. Alluded to the time when she
was called in her younger days to preside
over the Relief Society in her home town in
Utah and of the counsel and advice given
her at that time by Sister Eliza R. Snow,
telling her to never undervalue herself, but
