SOCIAL GATHERINGS.
	About fifty friends gathered at Durham
House, Liverpool, Monday night, the 14th
inst., for a birthday party in honor of Sis-
ter Lydia S. Clawson. The evening was 
very enjoyably spent with music, games, and
refreshments. Sister Clawson was present-
ed with a beautiful silver butter dish as a 
token of love and esteem. The affair was
a surprise on Sister Clawson, and in that
respect, as well as socially, was a complete
success.
	The Relief Society of the Kidderminster
branch (Birmingham conference) gave a
concert, Monday evening, November 14th,
1910. A number of friends and investi-
gators were present. Both saints and friends
gave their services free. The proceeds were


turned over to the Relief Society treasurer,
to aid the poor and needy.
	On Friday evening, November 11th, 1910,
the saints and elders of the Paisley branch
(Scottish conference) held a social in the
Masonic Hall, 96 High Street, Paisley. A
fine program was rendered, saints and
friends taking part; also a dainty lunch was
served. The attendance was very good, and
all had an enjoyable time. The object of
the social was to promote unity in the
branch, and that friends and investigators
might become better acquainted with the
saints.
	On Wednesday, November 9th, 1910, the
Barnsley Relief Society sisters gave their
monthly tea party and social in the Arcade
Hall meeting room, George Yard Barns-
ley (Sheffield conference). Sister Jennie
Ward acted as chairman, and was very kind
in furnishing dishes and refreshments. Sis-
ter Kimberley and President Annie Benfell
also furnished refreshments. About seven
p. m. a good program was rendered by
saints and friends. Mr. Hoyle, formerly a
soldier in India, recited two poems for us.
A vote of thanks was given to all who as-
sisted. Brother Harry Quilter, daughter
Louisa, and son Charles Hyrum, came from
Birdwell. Elder John Vaughan and Elder
John Hadfield came from Wombwell.
Many friends were present. All enjoyed
themselves.—Millennial Star.


