Our Responsibility to Inactive Members Counselor Velma N. Simonsen [Address delivered at the annual general Relief Society conference in the Tabernacle on Thursday afternoon, September 30, 1948.| HIS is one of the great mo ments of my life to stand in this historic building and, before this great body of Relief Society sisters, bear my testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel and to the blessings of the Relief Society work to the women of the Church, and to the women of the whole world who will accept of its blessings and its opportunities. When Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society he said: "I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth." Later on he said if the women would live up to their privileges that the angels could not be restrained from being their associates. When he turned the key he opened the door for such a flood of blessings to flow down upon womankind that it ls beyond our powet to comprehend the greatness of those blessings. There is a French quotation that says: 'Noblesse oblige," which might be expressed, "where much is given, much is €Xpected." Yesterday, and especially this morning, we have heard much of the accomplishments of women, and our hearts have rejoiced in this accomplishment. We have given much, but I believe that we have not yet lived up completely to out privileges, that. We have not yet reached the limit of our possibilities, and especially of the possibilities of bringing spiritual awakening to our inactive sisters. One of the charges which the Prophet gave the society later on was to strengthen the communities, and how better can we strengthen out communities than to bring spirituality to the hearts of the mothers im our communities? One of the great est needs in the whole world today | is the need of spirituality. It can be truly said that in the world of science and material things, nevet before has man aimed so_ high, planned so profoundly, or achieved of our forefathers are commonplace realities to never before have been less sure of themselves. Never has there been a been so much cators, Our scientists, Our our own prophets tell us that if the world is to endure at all it must do so by spiritual power. Page 291 292 So, if there is one Latter-day Saint woman in our community who is not receiving of the Strength and the blessings of Relief Society and Relief Society activity in the rearing of her family, we have a responsibility toward her. And how can we Prepare ourselves and make sure that we are equal to this responsibility? First, we ourselves must be sure that we are living according to the standards of the gospel, that we have active membership, and active and loyal participation in the organizations of the Church. That is one of the great spiritual losses of today —lack of loyalty to worthy causes. How many parents do you know who are heartsick over the waywardness of their children? Most Latterday Saint parents are very anxious that their children be active in the Church and, yet, they fail to realize that what they themselves do and what they say, their activity and their disloyalty, are the gteatest factors in governing their children's lives. We of the older generation have had the teachings of faithful parents and grandparents to set an example for us. We may become inactive for a time and drift away, but those teachings have been so strong that they cannot be entirely lost, and we return. But what about these children who have seen only the actions of their disloyal parents? LAST summer President Smith, talking at an open-air meeting in our stake, told the story of a couple who had a fine Latter-day Saint background who became inactive and drifted away from the Church. In later life they realized RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 what they were missing, and came back, but they found that they could not interest their children 'in the Church or its ideals. And, as he said, they could repent, but they could not repent for their children. President Grant once said, "Wherever you find a woman who ls devoted to the work of the Lord, almost without exception you will find that her children are devoted to it." And Brother Ballard in one of his talks said, "If we live the gospel, there is no power in earth or in hell that can prevail against us. There IS NO power or influence greater than the teachings of a good woman." What a promise that is to us who are Tearing our families, and what an incentive to bring the gospel, a spiritual awakening, to our inactive sisters. We must be our sisters' keepers and do all in our power to keep alive in their hearts a love of the gospel and a desire to live by its principles. I hope that each of you sitting here today is saying in your heart, what can I do to encourage my sisters, the women whom | know in my ward who are inactive? Maybe you are saying, "I wish she would tell us what we can do to teawaken spirituality in the hearts of our inactive sisters." In this you may be like the old farmer down in Southern Utah who was approached by a book salesman who tried to interest him in buying a book, but he said, "Why, what do I want it for?" And the salesman replied: "It will teach you how to raise better cattle, how to raise better sheep and better Tops. It wil] teach 293 YOu how to be let us wh aT¢ Officers ang teachers 4 much better farmer," In the *ociety make the Olganization A C answered: "T don't want SO effective and our teaching SO vitthat bo I am not farming = dlancige Spiritual that, f We can et 600d as I know how now." the sisters to attend ust once, they wonder, are we Ng Our spirit will feel the Strength of he Organ ual farming as Well as know how? Ization a the hope and the jo Ou do not need to be told What to and the faith that active Patticipa- C as Well as you know h W, tio brings, and I am ure that you Will have When | this S€ Congrega Wwonderfy] SuCCess in bringing these lon, I thought th MACtive sisters Into actiy; j et us w * €ach repre.; sentative of 3 Ward or a un; Ing the great ]j blessing of | unit of Re lef Society st just one elief Society and the woman in her ommunity in Relief help that It gives ys In Tearing oy Oociety, the mbership Would be Children, ] "Ss show by our living Increased by Many thousands. If that we OT€ capable, that we every Organization increased Its ave Detter, that we 4 appier for membe ship Y Just one, that, in it. Clonging t Relief Society Let us self, would bring an MCcrease of show tha We feel that; lS an honor wenty-five hundre Sisters next and a Ptivilege to belong to Relief year, Society, Let us be enthusiastic in It is my Prayer that the Lorg will the work and about the Work, and bless ys with 4 €sire and With the ct us never 4; of {tying to interability to bring int activity our in est those who C not active And ACtIVE sisters a ee others of Destiny Christie Lund Coles