Civil Liberty Today Elder G. Homer Durham Director, Institute of Government, University of Utah T is all too common nowadays | to take civil liberty for granted. Our forefathers could afford no such luxurious attitude. Most of the time, most of the people, in most of the world, have been slaves. Greek democracy at Athens was based on slavery. 'The Roman world knew little freedom so far as the majority of humankind was concerned. 'The nineteenth century, true, saw the expansion of civil liberty for significant, large groups of people, but chiefly in western Europe, the United States, and the British Dominions. Indentured servants and slavery in most western countries are now things of the past. Ownership of human beings has ceased to exist, generally, but new forms of control threaten the freedoms that flowered in the nineteenth century. In order that we of the twentieth century may have some appreciation of our general situation, we might consider the facts that in Virginia, in 1625, forty per cent of the population were indentured servants; that thirty-six per cent of the emigrants to Pennsylvania in the 1680's were bond slaves; that a Maryland statute of 1715 authorized not to exceed ten lashes "for any one offense'" committed by these indentured founders of our social structure! After a few years most of these servants became free, acquired property, and established themselves as significant members of society. Slavery, too, flourished in America until the Civil War, numbering, in 1700, about ten per cent of the population. Even among the humanitarian Quakers of Pennsylvania, the lot of the slave was not particularly happy, despite the fact that the leading figures of the abolition movement were eventually numbered among this group. A Pennsylvania statute of 1693 authorized any persons: To take up Negroes, male or female, whom they shall find gadding abroad on the first days of the week without a ticket from their master or mistress... And to take them to jail, there to remain that night, and that without meat or drink, and to cause them to be publicly whipped next morning with 39 lashes, well laid on their bare backs, at which their said master or mistress shall pay 15d. To the whipper (Curtis P. Nettels, The Roots of American Civilization, 1940, page 326). The First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States provides that: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Together with the following nine amendments, this provision constitutes the Federal Bill of Rights. These amendments took effect December 15, 1791, some thirty months after the inauguration of George Washington under the new Constitution, framed in 1787, ratified in 1788, and put into effect in 1789. The establishment of American Federal union under a written Constitution in 1789 was itself a Page 299 enth Amen h, as a conse Virginia Company, the Proprietary charters conferred by the British Crown "pon the Calverts jn Mary. Land, the Penns in Pennsylvania, ing the sacred sphere of human liberty into which government shal] not enter, Incorporated into the Bill of Rights were the significant entirely g re-COpy of English experience. It js true, however, that the CIVIL LIBERTy TODAY Principle of € traced to m the a y to € post Office, interferes with Individual Orious Olution of 1688-8 lights, the Person has reco Tse to ordina made the Principles effective ang peal Bill ce°' ial a Ay F itis Bes available for embodiment ao iie Statds found else here in the Federaj Written Constitution Peculiar to onstitut; ME€rican €xperien d States This System of Protections, jp Tights of Personal liberty May be S Lan Constitut Classified under two headings: Cdera Onstitution, embraces the following substantive d procedur. 1. Substantive (in the Words of Profes. Al tights: Sors Oge and Ray), those "pe taining to the fact and essence of freedom," The Substantive Suarantees Include 2 Procedural, "Te ating to the methods 7. 'mmunity from Slavery and Mvolun Y Which free om is Protected," lary servitude. 2. Freedom of Teligion Substantive nights often emerge 3. Freedom ¢ speech and presg ust. Eve if Witten, as In the 4 Aight of assemb] nd petition Soviet stitution, ubstantive 5- Right to keep and 5 ar arms Tights are aningless Nless ac 6. Equal Peon of pins ue 7- The restric n Teasonable o ~ompanied by Procedural rights, It fenses to a Narrow, "onstitutionally fixed IS the glory 6 Anglo-American libmarin erty that our ¢ Nstitutional Ja not mee 1 only contains, } gen erally has od; pe Puncipa Procedura euarantees jn anded, -, sua: ane suarantees ae - The forbidding Of bills of attaindey ve ng. ( Punishment } Politica] legislation With The net Tesult, in the United out judicial] trial) States, Is that h Individual citizen lS surrounded 2. Forbidding of Wi €€ layers of (criminal ] lcgal-constitutional | &X Post facto laws Medies tg previous] -5 Maintain his liberty: €gislation €nacted after the Y-Supposed innocent act was committed ) 3- Guarantee Judicial] Process by 1. If interfered wisp by another Indigrand jury Indictment vidual or Private gtoup, he as the rem. 4 The Writ of habeas Corpus edies of he ordin law, in both Feq 5 al by Jury.; eral and State court depe ding on the rotection 'of Privacy from unreas nature of the cas onable Searches and S€iZures 2. If Interfere th by "UC process of law whenever life, liberty, oy Property are aff Y Other syb. Hard-won liberties, in- _ COrporated into Ameri nights, Plus those fea; tures of the Federal] [ CaN ConstityConstitution <2 Uonalism, rest the gr Social, eco. Ticularly 4p rteenth endment nomic, and Political advantages of 4 which "limit he power of the States nchly-endowed nation, [This article may be used Scien