Calories for Safety
Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education
No less authority than Dr. Mary Swartz Rose, of Columbia, is responsible for the statement that: "The most important single factor in nutrition is to adequately meet the energy requirement." This means that the food supply must not only meet the demand made by various forms of activity but in addition must meet maintenance and building demands of the individual. If this requirement is not met, careful consideration of ash, vitamines and proteins are insufficient in themselves to bring the individual into optimum physical well being. In a very recent statement, Mrs. Rose maintains that "too much attention is now being given to vitamines and not enough to calories." In order to equalize interest in different phases of nutrition it seems wise to discuss energy requirements in terms of calories. It is not difficult to think in terms of calories if you consider it as merely a heat unit of measure just as the gallon is a unit for measuring liquids, the yard stick a means of measuring cloth, etc., and the thermometer a device for measuring temperature. The calorie represents the heat value of foods burned either outside or inside of the body. The heat value or caloric value of foods is measured outside the body by burning foods in the bomb calorimeter which makes it possible to measure accurately the amount of heat furnished by the combustion of a known amount of food. Devices for measuring the amount of heat or energy required for different kinds of activity have been measured by other kinds of calorimeters. It has been found, for instance, by use of the baby calorimeter that a crying baby consumes much more energy than the sleeping child. The variation has been accurately measured by carefully measuring the amount of heat given off by the crying baby and comparing it with the amount of heat or energy used by the body of the sleeping infant. A friend contributes the following boarding-house experience: Most of the boarders were outside-workers whose energy demands were above the average. It was the exception when the table did not supply a generous amount of food in terms of calories. Meats, rich in gravies, frequently hot breads, vegetables and rich desserts were the foods usually served in abundance so that this "surprise meal' was conspicuous to the food chemist. The menu that evening consisted. Of a stew in which the very lean meat was not tender enough to eat. In addition to the meat there was a generous amount of young carrots, turnips and string beans. The menu also included crisp radishes and lettuce which might be eaten 
with vinegar and sugar or salt, very light rather dry bread and butter, jello, without whipped cream or sauce of any kind, and watermelon. The men ate generously of everything but the meat. No comment was made by the person who knew that the meal was largely water, vitamines, cellulose and mineral salts. The next morning in answer to a casual question as to what they had done the previous evening, the man whose energy requirements were highest, answered, "I got so hungry about nine o'clock that I went over to the drug store and ate a banana special." Two other members of the group admitted eating candy which was not in their usual schedule. A rough estimate of the calorie requirement of this "surprise meal' shows the following:
To show that hunger was a natural result from this kind of a meal it is interesting to note that the energy requirement of a man in different occupations would be:
The men at this boarding house had an early breakfast and a box lunch, so that they were getting approximately 800 to 1000 calories at each of these meals. The kind of dinner listed above would not finish meeting the energy requirements and keep a man of this activity up to normal weight. When a person has to resort to eating between meals it is well to question the boarding house. The following tables from Feeding the Family, by Rose, show the comparative values per pound of common foods in terms of calories:
Occasional checking on calories is essential to determine whether or not energy requirements are being met. If your child is not doing satisfactory work in his grade, or if he is behind the grade that he should be in for his years, it is possible that there is too wide variation between the calories he needs and those he eats. This variation is shown in charts showing relationship between weight and height. In checking on this it is important that the child be weighed in the same clothing at the same time of the day and on the same day of the week or month. If your child is normal weight for his height it is probable that his calorie intake is sufficient. If your child is more than 15% underweight, he should be considered ill, for when he is mare than 15% underweight there is too much danger from low resistance, imperfect development and instability of the nervous system, to insure good health. From the standpoint of safety the child should be kept very close to, or better, a few points above his normal weight. Dr. Emerson of Boston found that the malnourished 484 child averaged six physical defects to one or less for children properly nourished. There seems little room for doubt that one of the chief causes for malnutrition is an unwise selection of food. Mothers do not always realize the difference in food values of different foods. Some have not learned the importance of constantly checking the physical condition of the child in terms of height, weight, good appetite, good digestion, good color, good disposition, cheerful expression, bright eyes, glossy hair, sound teeth and firmly developed muscles. In contrast, the malnourished child is usually irritable, nervous, forgetful and inattentive, has small or crooked bones and lacks mental and physical vigor. It is the mother's responsibility to see that those under her care should eat food right in kind and amount. While there is no question that fruits are appetizing and that some should be used every day, they are too bulky to be substituted for concentrated foods. A boy eight years of age, for instance, who needs 2000 calories a day would not be well nourished on twenty large apples a day. While this number would supply the caloric requirement, it would be inadequate in terms of protein and fat and would also be lacking in vitamine C and low in vitamine B and A. If this boy should eat eight or twelve apples a day and as a result should have little appetite at meal time, he will probably lose weight in terms of muscle tissue and body fat as well as suffer loss in calcium, iron, and phosphorus. This deficient diet will not help him to make satisfactory progress in school. Dr. Holt found that a safe over-weight is usually found in specially promoted pupils as they are less easily fatigued, have increased resistance and better concentration than those suffering from malnutrition. Neither muscle tissue, nerve or bone can be developed or maintained unless the right kind of food is furnished to the child as well as adult. At this season of the year garden stuff and fruits are so abundant this discussion is timely. Dr Hedger tells the following: "The weight curve for all of the children in an orphan asylum declined sharply in a certain week in October. When the superintendent was asked as to the cause, she replied, "Oh, that was apple week. Every year at this time we are presented with several barrels of apples and the children are allowed to help themselves. They eat so many that they do not eat much at meal time." Growing children cannot afford too many "apple weeks" when their normal weight curve suffers interference. This is especially true in vacation time when they should be making a steady gain in weight as health insurance to carry them over the year in school. Frequently, irritability and whining in children might be easily traced to unbalanced diets which did not provide adequate energy and growth requirements. The under nourished baby cries and frets because of discomfort from lack of sufficient food. The growing child is also uncomfortable and cross if he does not have a sufficient amount of the right kinds of foods. In terms of calories foods must be classed as concentrated and bulky. Concentrated foods such as fats, sugar, grains, dried meats and fruits contain little water and consequently have high caloric value. Bulky foods such as green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, fresh fruits, milk and stock soups contain relatively large amounts of water and as a result have low caloric value. Because of the low water content the most concentrated foods are fats, as one level tablespoon of butter, lard, etc., is equal in caloric value to one medium sized head of lettuce or pie plate full of uncooked spinach. It is equal in fuel value to about two tablespoonfuls of sugar and four tablespoons of dry granular cereal products. Double this amount is necessary of flaked cereals. An average sized potato is equal in terms of energy to four medium sized carrots. Dried foods such as beans, peas have more food value than the more bulky foods such as fruit and vegetables. One quart of soup stock without fat or vegetables is equal in fuel value to three-eighths cup whole milk. Further information. On this can be obtained from Feeding the Family by Rose. In order to safeguard your family, balance your menus. With a light meat course, serve a dessert that is rich with energy giving foods. With a heavy meat course, serve a light dessert that will be easily digested. When starchy vegetables are used, serve a light salad. With bulky vegetables, such as cabbage, a salad consisting of some concentrated food such as nuts, raisins or cheese should be chosen. Don't serve stock soup, green onions, radishes, lettuce and water ice or rhubarb at one time. Give your family credit for being able to drink some of the water they require. Cost of foods is not always an indication of their full value. Tomatoes out of season for instance at 20c a pound furnish an expensive 100 calorie portion. Foods costing less than 1c per 100 calories are cereals, bread, beans, cheap fats and sugar. The house wife interested in the problem will be glad to know that Mrs. Rose is writing a new book which gives additional light on this important problem. The Bureau of Home Economics, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., has published recently some interesting food charts showing food compositions. These may be obtained by writing to Dr. Louise Stanley, Bureau of Home Economics, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. And inclosing ten cents for the cost of the charts. Many of the high school textbooks in foods furnish additional information on food values in terms of 100 calorie portions. The intelligent homemaker must be constantly alert to the never ending problems in the "food game."