Guide Lessons for November
LESSON I (First Week in November)
Theology and Testimony
1. The Spirituality of His Parents. His father, the first "Israelite," a man who worshiped God, was visited by divine messengers, was given a new name, and was blessed by the Lord with a renewal of the promises made to his father Isaac and his grandfather Abraham. His mother was a prophetess. (See Gen. 30:23.)
2. His Theological Career. (a) The dreamer. (See Gen. 37:5, 9, 10.). The Lord gave him two prophetic dreams. As an evidence that these dreams were something more than the result of physical conditions, or day-thoughts we have the jealousy aroused by their recital. It appears, too, that the promptings of the evil one were not limited to the minds of Joseph's brothers. Seemingly, both of his brothers and his father were afraid of those dreams, and this very fear was certain proof that they believed in them. Joseph innocently found himself hated by his brethren and. Chided by his father for dreaming dreams which were interpreted as prophetic, not by him but by others. (b) His Inspirational Superiority as a Business Man. (Gen. 39:2-5.) (c) His Defense of Chastity in the Name of God. (Gen. 39:9.) Note the ethics of the first part of Joseph's defense, and the religion of the last part of it. (d) An Interpreter of Dreams. The Prisoner's Dreams. (Gen. 40.) The theological value of this reference is in the question, "Do not interpretations belong to God?" Prison walls may hold the body of a seer, but they cannot curtail the vision of his seership. The King's Dream. (Gen. 41.) The magicians failed before they tried. Joseph, in answer to the request of the king for an interpretation, declared himself unable to give the interpretation by say-
ing, "It is not in me.' Then with the faith of which James speaks, the faith with which Joseph Smith went to the Grove, Joseph declared: "God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace." This was the utterance of a prophet. How much time it took for Joseph to ask God for wisdom is not stated, but the prophecy was fulfilled by the Lord who gave Joseph the power to see the coming events for Egypt, and authorized him to reveal what he saw. And so we see Joseph, the persecuted, the once slave, the recent prisoner, now in all the majesty of a prophet, seer, and revelator, standing before a troubled monarch and revealing truth for the subsequent preservation of Egypt and his father's household from starvation.
3. The Lord's Promise to Joseph. (a) Promises concerning a deliverer of Israel from Egyptian bondage. (See Book of Mormon, II Nephi 3:10, 17.) Joseph as a seer saw the bondage of his people, but this bondage did not come in his day. Israel was free in Egypt as long as Joseph lived. (Gen. 47:12.); (b) Promises concerning the coming of Joseph Smith the Seer. (II Nephi 3:7, 8, 9, 15.)
4. The Death of Joseph. With the passing of Joseph it appears that authority to lead in the name of the Lord was taken from Israel in the earth. With its departure Israel's woes began to increase. While Joseph lived Israel was the honored guest of Egypt; soon after he was gone Israel became slaves of the Egyptians. (Gen. 47:13; Exodus 1:13-22.) The light of revelation, went out and Egyptian darkness of mind prevailed. However, the heroism of the Israelite women seems without parallel. They bore children in the midst of serfdom. It must have been their belief in the prediction of Joseph concerning the coming of a deliverer, and their faith in the promise made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that made it possible for them to face the future, bearing and rearing families that aroused the jealousy. Of the Egyptians and created alarm in the government. Nothing could daunt the women of Israel from obeying the first commandment.
Standing at the end of the Abrahamic Dispensation and looking back to the beginning one cannot fail to see the hand-dealing of the Lord with a few of His elect, for the benefit of the whole 
human family, and in the presence of it all one is ready to exclaim, "What hath God wrought." Great families were brought into existence both by the covenant line of Abraham's posterity and the non-covenant line. Isaac was favored of the Lord (See Gen. 17:19) but Ishmael was not forgotten (See Gen. 17:20). God gave Jacob twelve sons and he also provided for Esau to be the progenitor of a race of dukes. (Gen. 36:40-43.) As to Egypt, God made that pagan nation a center of spiritual gifts, and a source of temporal salvation through the instrumentality of the one Israelite, Joseph. Where is the record of any revelation in the land of Egypt. While Joseph was in Egypt? The Abrahamic Dispensation was one of miracles. It was a dispensation of miracles from the calling of Abraham out from an idolatrous people to the calling of Israel into pagan Egypt. Divine interposition was manifest in behalf of the great and the small. The prayer of Abraham for deliverance from the knife of the Egyptian priest was answered, and the cry of the lad Ishmael for water was heard by the Lord. In each case, an angel came to the rescue. The inspiration that led to the union of Isaac and Rebecca was shared by both; the same God that guided Jacob, gave to Rachel the spirit of prophecy. The pre-mortal gradation of spirits was shown to the dispensator, but whether he revealed it to his people or not is not of record, but he wrote it and it comes to us through the revelator Joseph Smith. (See Book of Abraham.)
Questions and Problems.
1. Give scriptural evidence that Rachel was blessed with the spirit of prophecy
2. How do you account for Joseph's dreams being taken so seriously by his brethren?
3. If we are to believe Joseph's own testimony, what was the source of his business success?
4. Show that both ethics and religion formed a part of Joseph's defense of his chastity.
5. Wherein was Joseph (a) a seer, (b) a prophet, (c) a revelator when interpreting the king's dreams?
6. How did Joseph try to comfort his brethren and save them from a continuance of the cuts of conscience? (Gen. 45:4-8.)
7. Connect theologically the lives of Joseph, sold into Egypt, and Joseph Smith the Prophet, through the Book of Mormon.
8. Name the three great provisions made in God's promise to Abraham. (Gen. 22:17, 18.)
9. How is the Pearl of Great Price related to the Abrahamic Dispensation?
10. Discuss the Abrahamic Dispensation as one of family building.
11. What new revelation of record was given in the Abrahamic Dispensation?
12. Discuss the absence of miracles of healing in the Abrahamic Dispensation.
LESSON II (Second Week in November)
Work and Business
"Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things." (Doc. And Cov. Sec 59:7.)
1, Thanksgiving Day is the one national festival which turns on home life. 2. It is an annual time of thanksgiving for the mercies and bounty of the closing year. 3. For the blessings and mercies we have enjoyed, thank Him who gave them. 4. Resolve to make the coming year still better and bigger with more of service and less of self. 5. Have the children tell how and why this custom of celebrating Thanksgiving Day was established. 6. Mothers should embrace every opportunity to teach their children the blessing of thankfulness. 7. A special prayer of thanksgiving in the home on Thanksgiving Day would be productive of great good. 8. Let us all cultivate the spirit of thankfulness on all days of the year.
LESSON III (Third Week in November)
Literature
Henry Van Dyke has done an extraordinary thing, in the field of letters, by writing essays that are as popular as the novel at a time when the novel has crowded the essay into remote and dusty corners of the library shelves. Dr Van Dyke has a long list of prose works to the credit of his ability and industry. Among them readers generally will recognize such titles as the "Blue Flower," "The Other Wise Man," "Fisherman's Luck," "The First Christmas Tree," "The Open Door," as well as a score of other works, for Dr. Van Dyke's books have been good sellers. They are wholesome to the last degree and fortunately for the reading public, they have found their way into many homes. 
Henry Van Dyke was born in Germantown, Pa., on November 10, 1852. He is the son of the Reverend Henry Jackson and Henrietta Ashmead. He was graduated from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, in 1869, and in 1873 was awarded his Bachelor of Arts degree at Princeton University. Dr. Van Dyke has studied extensively both at home and abroad. Successive periods have found him in the Princeton Theological Seminary, University of Berlin, Washington and Jefferson University, Wesleyan, and Pennsylvania Universities, so that his education is cosmopolitan in its nature. In the year 1877 he was ordained a member of the Presbyterian Ministry. He was married December 13, 1881, to Miss Ellen Reid of Baltimore. Dr. Van Dyke has carried three lines of work in his life. To many he is known as a minister of the gospel; to others as a Professor of Literature, for he was Professor of Literature in Princeton University until his appointment by President Wilson as Minister to the Netherlands and Luxembourg. His third line of work is that of a writer, and to this we owe the long line of books that may be found bearing his name in libraries all over the country. He filled the post of minister to the Netherlands and Luxembourg with distinction, resigning after several years of service. Many of the readers of the Magazine will recall his visit to Salt Lake City, and the West, when he traveled in a party headed by William Howard Taft, in the interest of World Peace. He makes his home at Avalon, Princeton. No doubt his interest in his fellow man as a teacher of religion is responsible for such books as "The Story of the Psalms," "Sermons to Young Men," "The Gospel for a World of Sin;" while his position as Professor of Literature led him to write "The Poetry of Tennyson," "Modern American Writers," etc. His poetry has attracted a good many readers, and to that phase of his literary work we shall more particularly devote this lesson. Indian summer may have passed when Van Dyke's poem, bearing that title, is considered, yet lingering memories of it will assist class members to appreciate the touches of the haze of the season, and other characteristics of Indian summer, that appear in the poem.
A silken curtain veils the skies, And half conceals from pensive eyes The bronzing tokens of the fall;
A calmness broods upon the hills, And summer's parting dream distils A charm of silence over all.
The stacks of corn, in brown array, Stand waiting through the tranquil day, Like tattered wigwams on the plain; The tribes that find a shelter there Are phantom peoples, forms of air, And ghosts of vanished joy and pain.
At evening when the crimson crest Of sunset passes down the West, I hear the whispering host returning; On far-off fields, by elm and oak, I see the lights, I smell the smoke,? The camp-fires of the Past are burning.
Nothing is more natural than that Henry Van Dyke, who is a member of the ministry, should write poems, occasionally, that have a touch of one who has devoted his life to teaching the gospel, as he understands it. In an organization including as many mothers, as we have in the Relief Society, we feel it would be a mistake not to include the poem called "A Mother's Birthday."
Lord Jesus, Thou hast known A mother's love and tender care: And Thou wilt hear, While for my own Mother most dear I make this birthday Prayer:
Protect her life, I pray, Who gave the gift of life to me; And may she know, From day to day. The deepening glow Of joy that comes from Thee.
As once upon her breast Fearless and well content I lay, So let her heart On Thee at rest, Feel fear depart And trouble fade away. 
Ah, hold her by the hand, As once her hand held mine; And though she may Not understand Life's winding way, Lead her in peace divine.
I cannot pay my debt For all the love that she has given; But Thou, love's Lord, Wilt not forget Her due reward,? Bless her in earth and heaven.
Ah! Hold her by the hand, As once her hand held mine; And though she may Not understand Life's winding way, Lead her in peace divine.
Henry Van Dyke spent much of his time in Europe, consequently his poems are full of touches that call to mind well known places in Europe. In 1908 the lonely island of Sicily was shaken by an earthquake, that wrought a great deal of destruction. Sicily is one of the spots that calls the traveler back again and again, because nature has been so lavish with lovely trees and beautiful bright-colored flowers, and a blue sea and a blue sky. Mr. Van Dyke feels the beauty of this favored spot of earth, which he recounts in a poetic way, in his poem called "Sicily," written at the time of the earthquake:
O garden isle, beloved by Sun and Sea, Whose bluest billows kiss thy curving bays, Whose light infolds thy hills with golden rays, Filling with fruit each dark-leaved orange-tree, What hidden hatred hath the Earth for thee, That once again, in these dark, dreadful days, Breaks forth in trembling rage, and swiftly lays Thy beauty waste in wreck and agony!
Is Nature, then, a strife of jealous powers, And man the plaything of unconscious fate? Not so, my troubled heart! God reigns above, And man is greatest in his darkest hours. Walking amid the cities desolate, Behold the Son of God in human love!
Much as he loves Europe, like all patriotic citizens he loves his own land best. We include in the lesson two of his poems that express his appreciation for the land of his birth, and the land of which he is an honored citizen. The first is "America," the second "America For Me." This last poem is a very great favorite, and is often made a part of patriotic programs, so we have selected it as the last to be considered in the lesson on Henry Van Dyke:
I love thine inland seas, Thy groves of giant trees, Thy rolling plains, Thy river's mighty sweep, Thy mystic canyons deep, Thy mountains wild and steep All thy domains;
Thy silver Eastern strands, Thy golden Gate that stands Wide to the West; Thy flowery Southland fair, Thy sweet and crystal air,? O land beyond compare, Thee I love best!
 .
'Tis fine to see the Old World, and travel up and down Among the famous palaces and cities of renown, To admire the crumbly castles and the statues of the kings, But now I think I've had enough of antiquated things.
So it's home again, and home again, America for me! My heart is turning home again, and there I long to be, In the land of youth and freedom beyond the ocean bars, Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars.
Oh, London is a man's town, there's power in the air; And Paris is a woman's town with flowers in her hair; And it's sweet to dream in Venice, and it's great to study Rome, But when it comes to living there is no place like home.
I like the German fir-woods, in green battalions drilled; I like the gardens of Versailles with flashing fountains filled; But, oh, to take your hand, my dear, and ramble for a day In the friendly western woodland where Nature has her way! 
I know that Europe's wonderful, yet something seems to lack: The Past is too much with her, and the people looking back. But the glory of the present is to make the future free,? We love our land for what she is and what she is to be.
Oh, it's home again, and home again, America for me! I want a ship that's westward bound to plough the rolling sea, To the blessed land of Room Enough beyond the ocean bars, Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars.
Questions and Problems
1. Select the words and phrases in the poem "Indian Summer" that are descriptive of the season.
2. Select some phrases from his poem "A Mother's Birthday," that indicate that he is truly a devout man and that he has faith in Jesus Christ.
3. Has Henry Van Dyke helped you to feel the beauty of Sicily, if so, what means has he taken to do so? State the location of Sicily. If convenient show the class members where it is on the map.
4. Has he stimulated your patriotism? If so, tell how?
5. If there are members of the class who saw Mr. Van Dyke on his visit to the West, let them tell the class something about his appearance and his address.
LESSON IV (Fourth Week in November)
Social Service
The discussion of various types of special problems, which have been analyzed in the previous lessons, all have a definite relation to family welfare, and the development of normal family life. No matter what particular outstanding problem presents itself in a family, it can never be treated successfully, if it is not related to the whole family structure. The sick mother, the man out of work, the delinquent girl or the runaway boy who come to the attention of social agencies are not isolated phenomena, but are the obvious manifestations of some family failure or maladjustment. As social work becomes more specialized, there is a tendency for agencies dealing with special types of problems to observe and study only the particular outstanding manifestation. The physician and nurse are more aware of the diagnosed tuberculosis or heart disease, than of the home or work environment which produced the disease. The probation officer is
often more concerned with equitable property settlement of the boy who breaks windows or steals a bicycle than with the social forces that motivated the act. The child-placing agency may emphasize the advantages to the child of finding a new home for it, without weighing the effect on the parents of removing the child from its home. The teacher may attempt to find the causes of dullness or unruliness in the activities of the schoolroom, when the real source of the difficulty may be in a sordid or unsympathetic home. The home is the most important single factor in determining the health, the behavior, and the progress of individuals. The family is the unit of society, through which the individual makes his first interpretation of life and makes his first adaptation to the art of living. While it is true that his degree of health and his measure of intelligence are largely determined at birth, the development of his powers is determined by his later experiences. The home, more than any other factor, will promote or curtail his health, habits, attitudes and conduct. The family is the medium through which the child gains his social heritage. The early environment will often determine whether success, happiness and mental physical health or the opposite, failure, morbidness, mental and physical impairment are to be the fate of the individual. It must be remembered that the first five or six years of a child's life are the most important in development of physical vigor, in forming habits, and in acquiring social attitudes. It is obvious that a child reared in a refined, orderly home, in a pleasant neighborhood, has a set of experiences completely different from the child born in squalid, poorly managed home, in a rough and ugly neighborhood. While the unfortunate child's responses and reactions cannot be exactly predicted, yet it is apparent that his unhappy environment is a factor in his life's experiences that will affect his development. To understand and treat health, behavior, or economic problems, requires a knowledge of the family fabric. To be unaware of the character of the family and to ignore its influence, will make any social treatment end in failure. The individual is such an integral part of family social unit, that any adjustment made without understanding the relation of the individual to the family is bound to be ineffective and even harmful. When the relation of the individual to the family is understood, it is then possible to measure the social factors in the situation and to place a proper emphasis on the particular problem. To be specific, one occasion for social study was 
that of a sixteen-year-old girl who had run away from home. The girl felt that her responsibilities at home were too strenuous. Her mother was a widow, working away from home, living on a limited income, and the girl's part in the unattractive home life, was caring for the children. She was tired of the routine, and was ambitious to study stenography. An interested respectable friend was willing to let her work for her during the day, as housemaid, and attend evening school. A modern individualist would perhaps maintain that the girl's preferences should give her the right to plan her life as she wished. But the facts of her own limitations and her part in the family unit should not be ignored. It was learned that the girl had just finished grammar school and had been rather dull at school work. Her enthusiasm for further study was inspired more by the prospect of being an attractive, well-dressed office girl earning fair wages than by any ability or aptitude for the work. It is perfectly understandable that her uneventful life in a drab home, would inspire such an ambition, and that desperation would drive her to run away. She was willing to admit that her earnings and her help were needed at home, and she had many misgivings about her desertion of her mother and younger sisters. The solution to the girl's difficulty, viewed in relation to her family, was not in the escape she had planned. With no assurance of her own success or happiness, it would be questionable whether her desertion from the family group should be encouraged. Her desire to earn money and be relieved of home drudgery, however, should be given consideration. After a time this was accomplished, and it was then possible for the mother to spend more of her time in the home. It happened that the girl did get her wish to be employed in an office, but she was spared the expense and almost certain failure that her first plan presented. The family unit presents this interdependence of its members in various forms, emotional as well as economic. The members of a family are bound by strong common interests and affections, and perhaps the greatest satisfaction and happiness in life results from the family comradeship and sharing of one another's successes. If the emotional bond and strong family affection exists, as it does in most homes, it is quite natural for the members to share one another's burdens in time of difficulty. Family affection and family pride usually come to the rescue when one of its clan has met with some misfortune. The fact that the family is an economic unit makes dependence upon one another only natural. The parents during
their best years devote their lives to their children. As the parents, with age, lose their earning power, it is to be supposed that the children, now grown, assume the financial burdens. The first responsibility for any financial problem should be assumed by the family, and not by church, state, or social agencies. Family responsibility does not end with the mutual care of its members. The family, too, is a part of a larger unit? the community and the race. If the family fails to function satisfactorily, the good of the larger units must be considered, and the state reserves the right to interfere. With its activities?removing children or incarcerating irresponsible parents. But the strength of society and the fullest realization of individual expression is to be found in wholesome family life, where individuals hold together by a strong natural bond, and work together for their mutual good. (Ref. Normal Life, pp. 183-185.)
1. How does the family life influence an individual's development?
2. Why should an individual's problem always be related to his family?
3. Why was it advisable to discourage the girl in the incident from her first plan?
4. Why should families be responsible for the care of its helpless?
5. Why are family attachments usually essential to normal living?
Mail Orders Filled Same Hour Received
Write Vera Keene The Paris Personal Mail Order Shopper PARCEL POST TO YOU.
The Paris Co. 28-38 E. Bdwy.
This is the Best Flour
There isn't a better judge of flour on earth than my mother. She uses the White Fawn Flour. Merit commands recognition. Consumers of this flour are steadily growing in number. All are pleased and none dissatisfied with the result of its use. Be sure to always ask for White Fawn flour.
Telephone Wasatch 1922
Salt Lake & Jordan Mill & Elevator Co, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention 
High Educational Standing!
Educate your children in an institution that is recognized the country over for the emphasis it places on serious-minded studentship.
High Scholarship
Only hard working, earnest students are desired. The University of Utah standards for entrance, study and graduation are so high that they are recognized and accepted throughout the educational world.