"WILL YE GO AWAY?"

	No, Lord we have loved thee too long and
too ardently to go away from thee!  Away
from thee?  Our best friend—our brother—
our advocate with the Father, thou who hast
put away our sins by the shedding of thy heart's
blood, who hast died to purchase for us the
bliss of heaven, in whose name alone we can be
saved?  We are constrained to say in the language
of St. Peter, "Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou
hast the words of eternal life.  And we believe
and are sure that Thou art that Christ, the
Son of the living God."
	Noble Peter—we cannot help loving him for
his boldness and courage in confessing his
Lord.  We are also drawn to him by intense
sympathy which springs from common weak-
ness.  So often we stumble and fall, that we
turn with a kind of relief to him whose steps
faltered even as ours and sometimes as sadly


went astray.  And yet there is something so
interesting and profitable in the story of Peter,
that we turn again and again to study it with
ever increasing delight.  But like us, Peter
was human and his self-reliance caused him to
fall.  This was preceded by the "following afar
off;" had he kept close to his Lord, he would
not have fallen.  Those who have reached
three score and ten, or fourscore years, can on
looking back see many times that they have fol-
lowed afar off until there has come again and
again a gentle reminder, a tender look which
has caused us to weep bitterly, and it is this
experience which forces us to look forward a
few years, with sorrow of heart, when the
young people of this community, will begin to
see the emptiness of worldly pleasure and will 
wish they had not thrown away so many gold-
en opportunities.
	Oh! ye young Latter Day Saints, many of
you have professed to receive the gospel﻿ in
your native land, you have been baptized into
the Church of Christ, you have crossed the
ocean in order to live with the Saints in the
land of Zion, but how is it now?  Many of you
prefer the sinful pleasures which are provided
by the Gentile world on the Sabbath for your
overthrow.
	Others prefer novel-reading to meeting with
the Saints to listen to the instructions of God's
servants.  Does reading a novel increase your
relish for the Bible, Book of Mormon, or any
other sacred book? Does it help you to culti-
vate the spirit of prayer, while your seat in
God's house is vacant? No, it does not.  A
novel reader is seldom a reader of sacred books.
Many and various are the traps set by the
world for your unwary feet, and when you fall
into them, they say in their hearts, “Ah! so
would we have it.” Then comes the sting for
every sinful pleasure is provided with a sting,
ready to pierce you as soon as the gratification
is over. Well will it be for you if the Lord
should give you such a look as He did Peter,
which will cause you to weep biterly. Re-
member you will be called togive an account of
every idle word and every unholy act in the
day of judgment. Let us take the advice of
holy writ which says—“take with you words,
and turn to the Lord, say unto Him, take
away all iniquity, and receive us graciously;”
and He will do it,but His Spirit will not strive
with us for ever. Your Redeemer is asking
you in tender pity, “will ye also go away?”
Oh! let your answer be,“Lord to whom shall we
go?  Thou hast the words of eternal life.”
