ANNIVERSARY AT PLASANT GREEN.

	The sisters of Plasant Green Relief Socity
met at the ward house on Thursday, May 19,
1892, to celebrate the anniversary of their or-
ganization. There were present on the stand
from Salt Lake City the General President
Zina D. H. Young and her Counselor Bath-
sheba Smith, and President M. I. Horne of the
Salt Lake Stake; of the ward authorities
Pres. Alvira S. Hirst, Counselor Ann C.
Bertoch, Bishop L. N. Hardman, Counselors
H. T. Spencer and John Hirst.
	Pres. Alvira S. Hirst presided. After the
usual exercises Pres. Horne addressed the
congregation in a very encouraging and in-
structive manner. Sister Smith then addressed
the assembly in a very pleasing manner, then
the beautiful Jubilee song was sung, entitled
“The Daughters of Zion, the Friends of the
Poor.” Pres. Zina Young occupied the stand
and exhorted the sisters to diligence and to
learn and know the will of our Heavenly
Father. Bishop L. N. Hardman exhorted
the sisters to faithfulness and to be diligent
in all things. Counselor H. T. Spencer ad-
dressed the sisters in a pleasing manner.
President Charlotte Nealson of Hunter ward
addressed the assembly in a brief but pleasant
manner. Counselor John Hirst exhorted the
sisters to be faithful and press forward.
Counselor Ann C. Bertoch said she was
thankful to have our beloved sisters in our
midst and asked God to strengthen us. Pres.
Alvira S. Hirst urged the sisters to treasure
up the good things that they had heard and
profit by them, for we had indeed had a time
of rejoicing and a feast of refreshing. Meeting
then adjourned.
	Another meeting was held in the after-
noon for the purpose of organizing a Primary
Association. Pres. Hirst presiding; after the
usual exercises were over, Pres. Zina Young
with the assistance of Pres. Hirst, proceeded
to organize a Primary, which was effected.
The following named officers were sustained,
Mrs. Fanny S. Brown, President; Mrs. Sarah
H. Coon and Miss Maggie Hardman Coun-
selors; Miss Maud Spencer, Secretary; Master
Lott Hancock, Cor. Sec.; Master William C.
Bertosh, Treasurer. After the organization
was completed Pres. Zina Young addressed
the little people in her pleasing motherly way.
Bishop Hardman, Counselor John Hirst, Coun-
selor Ann Bertoch, Mrs. M. J. C. Auer all
addressed the little people in a pleasing and
instructive manner. Pres. Fanny S. Brown
and Counselors expressed their willingness to
labor for the upbuilding of the Primary, God
giving them strength. Pres. Alvira Hirst
made a few closing remarks asking God to bless
us one and all, that we might be found worthy
to be numbered with his chosen sons and
daughters.
	ALVIRA S. HIRST, President.
	FANNY H. JENKINS, Secretary R. S.


