INTERESTING LETTER.

	We publish extracts from a letter received
from Miss Balgarnie, dated May 19, 1891, which
we feel sure our readers will be interested in, as
well as to know that she arrived home safely
after her visit to America. Miss Balgarnie is a
most valiant young woman in the field of work in
Great Britain. While in this country she made
a tour of the United States and Canada, looking
up on many vital questions especially those per-
taining to woman’s status, and particularly wages.
Her ideas on the great questions of the day are
very practical and she knows how to express her
views clearly, as well as eloquently. We shall
ever regret her not being able to speak in this


city, for her manner is so attractive that many
opposed to the question of woman's suffrage and
kindred topics would certainly listen to her be-
cause of her eloquence, and might thus be in-
fluenced against their previous prejudices.—ED.
		*	*	*	*	*	*
	"I would have written before, but I was far
from well for a fortnight after landing, having
caught cold on the boat. I am all right now, and
in the midst of work; this week we have had the
Women's Liberal Federation meeting presided
over by Lady Aberdeen. I spoke on Woman's 
Wages, and told of what I had seen amongst
women Factory inspectors in your country—I
hope ere long we may have them here. One
has already been appointed in Nottingham, and
there are here three women acting as Sub-com-
missioners for the Royal Commission now investi-
gating the Labor question. It is very nice to find
my country women so alive, and immense strides
have been made while I have been away. In
this year the suffrage has advanced more than
during ten previous years."
	"I had a pleasant trip, the Sea was calm; but
amongst all my recollections some of the most
interesting and pleasant are of the day spent in
your hospitable city, amongst all your kind
friends. I do thank you all and you especially
for all you did to make me happy. You will be
seeing Mrs. Beattie, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs.
Richards and others,—please give them my very
kindest remembrances.
	I hope if you are ever here that you will come
to see me.
			*	*	*	*	*	*
				Yours Very Sincerely,
