IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XV.
	With a champion like Clair, Lady Anna
was not likely to be neglected without its be-
ing resented, and Clair felt not only a sincere
affection for his sister, but he was determined
that Maitland Walton should be left without
excuse.
	After his departure from the interview with
Lady Walton she reviewed the past, as she had
been much in the habit of doing especially since
Sir Edward’s death; she was not particularly
amiable in the strict sense of the word, and
she had been left so entirely to herself during
her married life and had been such a favorite
in society, that she had not taken many lessons
in self-denial; indeed she had indulged in the
idea, that because she had made one great
sacrifice, (and that from compulsion) nothing
more ought ever to be required. Therefore
she had floated along with the current of
pleasure and of fashion, until her son, the idol
of her life, had confided to her his secret, which
had fallen on her like a thunderbolt, when
she ascertained that the girl be loved so wild-
ly, was the daughter of one, who had jilted her
and been the cause of her secret sorrow; she
knew not what course to pursue though much
of it came from wounded pride; now and again
she reflected within herself as to what was to

[Column 2]
be done, for to whom could she go how could
she tell her husband that Maitland had fall-
en in love with the daughter of his old enemy;
would he not at once conjecture that there had
been some association between the Baronet and
herself that had led to it, and without his
knowledge; whereas she had never by word
or deed, or in thought been false to him; until
Maitland had forced her almost to go to Sir.
Edward that night to plead his cause, she
had not looked upon his face; and had not fate
done this; was it her fault? and so she sat
wondering what course to take until the
silence seemed to her unbearable,still she was
unresolved, why should this boy, come into
her life, and speak to her with so much im-
petuosity, why had these chldren of Sir Ed-
ward’s forced themselves as it were upon her
notice what curious train of unknown causes
had produced this effect? was her life so
mysteriously interwoven with that of Sir Ed-
ward’s that though he was dead, she could
not rid herself of the past, nor of the living
present; of his children, for whom he himself
had never cared or manifested even ordinary
affection, scarcely acknowledged?
	These were the self questionings that passed
through her mind, and indeed it does seem
sometimes that there is a mysterious weaving
together of fine spun lines that entangle us, or
an under current that flows into certain lives
and draws them unconsciously to each other,
and who shall declare that this is not true?
	Lady Walton was restless, dissatisfied with
herself, she could not bear to have her hus-
band think ill of her for a single day, “Mait-
land shall speak for himself,” she exclaimed
aloud, as her husband entered the room un-
observed, repeating the words she had uttered,
“and about what, and to whom my dear, you
seem very much disturbed, what means this
agitation?” Lady Walton lost her self control
momentarily, and the hot tears coursed down
her cheeks.
	“What has our boy been doing now to cause
your unhappiness, it is not his delicate health
this time, he seems robust and well
since his return from Italy, is it a love affair,
speak out Helen surely you can have no
concealments from me!”
	“YesHenry it is a love affair of a very seri-
ous nature, and the boy cannot be persuaded
to give it up.”
	“Who is this girl or woman then that you
do not approve of the boy’s choice?” “I have
not said I did not approve of it, you know how
young Maitland is, and we had not expected
him to choose without our knowledge.”
	“Boys will be boys, and this is possibly a
mere fancy, I will talk to him; if the girl is
of good family and accomplished, even if she
is not a beauty, it may be all right, but tell me
Helen who is she, what are her special at-
tractions, and where did this fastidious boy
of ours meet her?”
	“I scarcely know myself how or where he
first met her, it seems to have been his fate, he
must have seen her accidentally somewhere
and fallen in love with her at first sight.”
	“But Lady Walton,” said her husband,
“you are evasive tell me her name? surely you
know it, he has no secrets from his mother I
warrant me,he makes youhis confidente no doubt.
	“Her name is Anna Hlliard,” replied the
lady, knowing there was no escape from the
questioning, by the imperative manner in
which he last addressed her. Lord Walton
looked at his wife a moment in silence, she
sat perfectly quiet, “and do you know this
girl?” he asked. ‘‘No I have met her only
once, I called as was my duty I thought upon
the family after the Baronet’s death.” “Is that
all you have to say, were you aware then that
Maitland was in love with the girl? Tell me
frankly Helen was this what took him to the
continent?”

[Column 3]
	Lord Walton made this last inquiry in a
milder tone, calling his wife by her given
name indicating a softer manner.
	“I think so.” You knew it undoubtedly;
then it was love-sickness ailed the boy;—men
do not die of that, you need not have been
alarmed, but I will see to this matter, lucky I
came in, when you were soliloquizing; how
long then was I to be kept in ignorance of my
son’s doings? until some neighborhood gossip
reached me I presume. Our lives do not seem
to run very close together of late”—“Whose
fault is it?” retorted Lady Walton,“when have
you confided anything to me, or even cared to
tell me where, or how you spent your time
when away” and then she broke down utter-
ly, and her maid was summoned; Lord Walton
walking off in a towering passion, to think she
should have reproved him in the least, and all
the time deceiving him about his own son; and
as he went he muttered between his clenched
teeth, “in love, with that rascally old man’s
daughter, my son, and the heir of Walton
Hall, and these fine estates; by Jove I’ll see
what the girl is like before I sleep,’’and hasten-
ing along he called to a groom to get his horse
ready for a canter across the fields.
	Once on horse back in the exhilarating air
of a fine summer day his passion subsided,
and he enjoyed the ride as he took his way to
the enemy’s fresh fields, new to him, for it had
been many a year since he had entered the
grounds he was now approaching; he did not go
as an intruder, however, but boldly as one
with a purpose in view. Coming in sight of
the castle along the highway, who should he
meet but Dr. Bland riding at a rapid pace,
and as he came near he reined in his horse,
and spoke though he scarcely had a speaking
acquaintance. The Doctor knew Lord Walton
well by sight and guessed something of his
errand and was therefore willing to be
questioned. After exchanging salutations Lord
Walton asked the doctor if he would return
to the castle and introduce him to the family.
The doctor consented notwithstanding he had
been on the way to visit a patient, he could
wait awhile, this was a duty he felt, for Lady
Anna was far from well and she too was a
patient of his as well as his ward, and he knew
Lord Walton to be a man of fiery temper and
unscrupulous in character. As the two gentle-
men rode along, Lord Walton said, “by the
way Sir Edward has a niece at the house, I am
told, who is a most clever and sensible young
person, very unlike other women; quite a re-
markable character, she must be a very ex-
cellent companion for Miss Hilliard, you I
suppose are well acquainted with her:” “I am
the guardian of her cousin, and as business
takes me to the castle often, and also the
practice of my profession, I have seen the
young lady to whom you refer quite frequent-
ly.”
	“The fact is Dr. Bland I would like to
speak to Miss Conway (I believe that is the
lady’s name) my business is with Miss Hill-
iard, but I might manage it better through
her cousin.”
	“I could advise you better if I knew the
nature of your errand,” replied the cool head-
ed doctor.
	“Well I may as well tell you as you are her
guardian it is right you should know, she’s in
love with my son, and as we have never been
on friendly terms with Sir Edward for more
than thirty years its a very awkward affair.”
	“But Sir Edward is dead” replied the doc-
tor, with his usual self-possession not adding
any other explanation.
	“Of course he’s dead but we could never
think of uniting the two families by marriage,
think of our never having spoken for a whole
generation.”
	“If he were living you would not have call-
ed I presume?” Inquired the doctor looking


C. W. P. A. and exchange ideas and be mutually
benefitted. It was really an enjoyable affair and
we were much interested in meeting for the first
time the talented and attractive Miss Keith (Di
Vernon) of whom the papers have had consider-
able to say of late, which proves she is worth
talking about. Another lady editor who drew
out our sympathy as well as our sincere admira-
tion was Mrs. Laura E. Foute of San Antonio,
Texas. She is one of those sweet-mannered,
highly polished and attractive Southern women,
that call out your tenderest affections, and make
you feel akin. Her magazine is The Gulf Messen-
ger, and withal she has a great ambition, which is
to make it the magazine of the Gulf states, and
with all our heart we wish she may succeed in do-
ing so.
	Mrs. Virginia Lull was really the centre of at-
traction of the evening,all things considered, and
as she lives in Chicago and has been doing news-
paper work there for a number of years, we were
all delighted to hear her talk. She is well posted
in all the questions of the day and her witty man-
ner of telling things was very amusing.
	Miss Minna V. Lewis seems to be the pet of
the association, and she is very charming,a sensi-
tive, delicate, little creature with bright eyes and
an expression of tenderness in them, as though
she could “weep for others’ woes;” but she must
have place in another article, also Florence
Mathesen, who is the daughter of the celebrated
Elizabeth Akers Allen of poetry, song, and story
fame, who wrote many years for Godey’s Lady’s
Book and other popular works,but who is beloved
everywhere through the well-known song,

	“Rock me to sleep mother, Rock me to sleep.”

also Mrs. D’Evelyn, Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper, and
her Sunday Bible Class and Mrs. Hannah Neall,
and others. 
	The drive to the beach and the Presidio too
will come in at another time, and the visit to our
quarters, the office of the EXPONENT, of some of
the returning editorial party. Quite a number of
the people we met, men and women, are not yet
mentioned and we shall take great pleasure in
writing them up for the delectation of our read-
ers.


