COURTESY.

	We have frequently heard the question
asked, "What is Courtesy?" and have been
surprised, at first, to hear the query put, but
on farther study, our surprise has vanished.
We have found it mistaken for politeness, and
vica versa. And yet how simple, and distinct
its definition. Courtesy is the destinctive
mark of a refined and cultivated mind, it is
the attribute by which we may recognize the
true lady,or gentleman. It is the characteristic
of the well bred, and kind hearted of all
nations, tribes and people, it is the true index
of a good mind. It is the oil in the machinery
of social life. It is necessary for comfort, and
tends to foster happiness. Courteous words
sweeten life, and a courteous demeanour en-
hances its pleasures. It hides many imperfec-
tions and protects the possessor from many
dangers. Courtesy is calculated to win hearts
and the lack of it to lose them; and the closer
one’s intimacy with a person is, the more need-
ful does the exercise of tact, and courtesy be-
come. Courtesy is never the result of a school
education. It springs from an innate purity
of soul. Pure courtesy is often met with in
those who are entirely uneducated, these are
natures noblemen, and women.
	We have read, and heard, of highly edu-
cated and gifted men, who seemed unable to
be courteous to any one, and they were voted
as boors in society. And yet it can be, and
often is, cultivated, and those in whom it is
found either as a product of their nature, or
as an acquired quality, are the gems and orna-
ments of society, while they who are without
it, are but little sought after, and are often

[Column 2]

shunned. Courtesy is never a burden to its
possessor, and will help to make life's path
easier to travel than any other virtue, except
honesty and truth.
	Of all poverty stricken contradictions the
person who does not possess the quality of
courtesy is the poorest.
	Without courtesy the best actions of our
lives are not appreciated, because the manner
of performing them is not in keeping with the
actions. The courtesy of the heart is allied to
love, from it springs the purest courtesy in the
outward behavior. As the best metal is the
most flexible, so the truly generous hearted,
are the most courteous to inferiors, and those
who are courteous to all, receive much more
honor, than those whom they honor. 
	Again, there are studied courtesies in which
sincerity and truth, have no part, and these
tend to break up, and eliminate every element
of true friendship.
	There are people who profess to be too inde-
pendent to study even the smallest courtesies
They will enter a room or a public place in
an abrupt manner, sit in the rudest attitudes,
pay no apparent attention to those who may
be speaking, and in conversation themselves,
show no respect to those around them. They
do not understand, that there is not one of our
attributes, one of our employments, nor one of
our states of mind which is not as significant
could we interpret it, as holy writ, though not
as instructive. To each of us God has given
talents to be improved by cultivation,and care,
nothing that comes from him can be ignoble
or small, nothing worthless if cultivated as his
gift. This is one of the most helpful thoughts
we get of ourselves, and should teach us how
necess[--] it is to cultivate every grain of the
beautiful seed that nature has given us, then
thoughts will break out into leaf, feelings into
blossoms, a single day may make the whole
heart like a woodland, when the foliage of
sweet and refined thought first appears, the
weeds will not be seen amid the flowers. We
may never be called to leave the sacred pre-
cincts of home, yet there we should cultivate
every grace, and talent, so that we may shed
brightness, and joy upon our nearest and
dearest.
	It is a blessed thing to feel that we are
wanted in life, that we are not like a solitary
speck of sand, upon the great Sahara of the
world, but are a part of a great and glorious
whole, where each individual soul has its own
appointed place, and which we are expected to
perfect ourselves to fill; to devote ourselves
to the bliss of the Divine life by the beautiful
apostolate of kindness, and courtesy. Courtesy
is a fortune in itself; a courteous man often
succeeds in life where men of much greater
ability fail. The history of every country
furnishes instances where courteous manners
have made the fortunes of lawyers, divines
physicians, politicians, and indeed, individuals
of all pursuits. Of two men equal in all other
respects, the courteous one has twice the ad-
vantages, and by far the better chance of mak-
his way in the world.
	Our first introduction to a stranger, their
affability or the reverse, creates a preposses-
sion in their favor, or awakens unconsciously
a prejudice against them.
	Courtesy is a general passport to favor a
letter of recommendation written in a language
which every person can read and understand.
