EDITORIAL NOTES.
	This is the first time in the history of the
United States that women have been made Dele-
gates to a Presidential Convention, but Wyoming
true to the principles of her Constitution elected
one lady, Mrs. Theresa Jenkins and one alternate
Mrs. Georgianna Carlton, the last named lady
Utah has some honor in claiming as she spent
most of her life here, and all her early education 
and training she received in this Territory.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
stake will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City Friday June 17.  Meetings will
commence as usual at 10 a. and 2 p.m. The
President is desirous of a good attendance of the
members from the wards of the city and from all
parts of the county.  As this is not the time of
year for reports it is expected the Conference will
be of an interesting character.  A cordial invita-
tion is extended to the brethren and sisters in-
terested in this benevolent institution and especi-
ally the Presidency of the Church, the Apostles,
the Presiding Bishops, the Presidency of the
Stake and the Bishops of the several wards. By 
order of the President, M. Isabella Horne.

	The terrible calamities that have been chroni-
cled in the newspapers the last few weeks are
indeed terrifying; while famine rages in one part
of the earth, and war is threatened in another,
floods, cyclones,  storms,  whirlwinds,  raging
torrents, explosions, fires, and disease and death

[column 2]
all these with the destruction of human life and
property seem almost to overwhelm one with
the sickening record; and involuntarily one con-
templates—what is and may be yet to come to
pass. The prophecies of the Scriptures are being
fulfilled in the sight of the people.  Here in these
peaceful vales there is plenty and comparative
quiet, surely there is reason to rejoice and be
grateful that all is as well as it is with this peo-
ple here in the valleys of the mountains.
	The Republican Convention at Minneapolis has
had rather a lively time; after considerable de-
bating and delay, O. J. Salisbery and Frank J.
Cannon were admitted to seats in the Convention
and also Messrs. Goodwin and Varian with each
side one vote.  While the Convention was in pro-
cess of organization, some radical changes took
place in the political atmosphere of the country,
Blaine's resignation as Secretary of State causing
some people to look upon him as almost a traitor
to the President and Cabinet—however this may
be viewed it was doubtless a disappoinment to 
many of his ardent admirers, who have heretofore
looked upon him as the greatest man of his party.
That it will somewhat lessen his influence and his
fame seems more than probable.  At present, in-
dications point to a more turbulent state of the
political affairs of the nation than there has ever
been at any presidential election.  Bitterness in
the two factions of Blaine and Harrison men is
lamentable when one considers the welfare of the 
country is at stake.  On the 10th, the dispatches
announced Harrison's nomination on the first
ballot;  also Whitelaw Reid of New York, for
Vice President; this ends the contest so far.

	The recent visit of Mrs. Solomon Thatcher of
Chicago, to Utah, was a very pleasing affair, as
well as beneficial in the interests of the Columbian
Exposition. Mrs. Thatcher is a very gifted and
brilliant woman, and intensely interested in the
woman's department of the World's Fair; of
which she is one of the Executive Committee.
She addressed the people of Logan, Cache Co.,
while there on a visit to Hon. Moses Thatcher
and family, and had a large audience in the Logan
Tabernacle. On Sunday evening she spoke in
this City, in the large Tabernacle, to the largest
congregation she has ever had the honor of ad-
dressing at any time. She has a fine presence, a
clear manner of expressing her ideas, and holds
her listeners spell-bound with her sympathetic
eloquence.  We shall publish her speech in our
next issue of the paper, therefore we do not desire
to make any extracts, to spoil the effect. Mrs.
Thatcher was introduced to the audience by Miss
Keogh of this city in a few well-chosen words.
While here Mr. and Mrs. Thatcher were the
guests of Presiding Bishop Preston.  We had
an opportunity of meeting the distinguished lady
previous to her departure from this City, and
found her exceedingly interesting in conversation,
and well posted on all general matters pertaining
to women, as well as those directly connected 
with the World's Fair work.


