IN SAN FRANCISCO.

	On the afternoon of Tuesday May 24, Dr. Alice
B. Stockham and her daughter Miss Cora Stock-
ham tendered a reception to the ladies engaged
in the Kindergarten work, the Pacific Coast Wo-
man's Press Association, and the visiting ladies
of the editorial party at the parlors of the Palace
Hotel. Miss Stockham is a lovely young woman,
her very presence is like an inspiration and one
can readily believe what Mrs. Stockham has
stated that her daughter was her inspiration in
preparing her work on Tokology. This valuable
work has been widely circulated in Utah; and
is the most complete work of the kind we have
ever examined.
	We had the pleasure of going to the reception
with Mrs. Waterman, Miss Lewis, Mrs, D'Evelyn,
and Mrs. Mathesen of the P. C. W. P. A. Miss
Stockham received the ladies in the most graceful
and charming way, though her mother had not yet
returned from her trip around the bay with the
editorial party, but came in later, looking very
weary, though in excellent spirits and full of ani-
mation. Mrs. Eyster, of San Francisco, Mrs.
Sarah Wilder Pratt, of Chicago were with her,
also some others; Mrs. Pratt is not only a writer
for the press, but is an ordained minister of
Christian Science and fills several important
positions in Women's Clubs etc., all the ladies
were rather tired as they had been traveling so long
and seeing so much.
	Dr. Stockham had just returned from a trip to
Japan and of course every one was anxious to
hear of that wonderful far-off country; she has
brought with her many interesting curiosities, as
well as a great deal of information, which she will
disseminate for the benefit of the women of her
country, as she is a very pleasing and interesting
writer and story teller.
	The same evening the Convention of the
National Editorial Association opened in the
Metropolitan Hall opposite the U. S. Mint build-
ing. A very fine looking audience assembled,
though the larger part were the visiting delega-
tion. The Chairman of the reception committee
of the California delegation, read an address of
welcome which was very complimentary to the
visitors, and set forth in the most glowing terms
the advantages of California in every respect, its
present prospects, and its great possible and
probable future.
	The President, Mr. W. S. Capeller, made the
address of the evening which was very able and
admirably delivered. These two addresses were
the principal features of the opening meeting.
	One of the most notable men of the Conven-
tion and of the editorial association is the Cor.
Secretary, Mr. J. M. Page, of Jerseyville, Ill.,
editor of the Democrat, he has filled the office he
holds eight years in succession. He is to the N.
E. A. what Rachel Foster Avery is to the N.-A.
W. S. A. has the same soft of wonderful tact and

[Column 2]

talent to grasp the situation of affairs and to not
only make a success of what he undertakes but
to do whatever is best for the Association to the
perfect satisfaction of all concerned. To manage
a large party of men and women, look after the
transportation and see that everything goes right,
at the same time to do the secretary's work and
answer every one's questions in the most polite
and gracious manner as if it were a pleasure, is
what but few people are capable of doing.
	There might be a great deal written of the do-
ings of the Convention, but as it is quite impos-
sible to "tell it all" especially at one time in a
small paper, we will leave some things to the
imagination, and some to use at another time in
these columns,
	One of the best articles read at the Convention
was (in our estimation) "Women In Journalism"
by Sallie A. Moses, and read by Mrs. S. W. Pratt
who gave good expression to the subject, modu-
lating her voice well and altogether rendering it
in a clear and forcible style,which was very pleas-
ing to her hearers.
	On the last day of the Convention, there was a
great deal of unfinished business to be disposed
of and the officers for the ensuing year were to
be chosen, and altogether with arranging trans-
portation and bringing matters to a close there
was a good deal of a "hubbub." However the vot-
ing went on pretty well until some one suggested
a woman for third Vice President; on this ques-
tion, there were a variety of opinions. Some
members holding that Mrs. E. Jeanette Abbott a
Chicago lady, the nominee, was not eligible, and
some gentlemen were anxious to convince those
around them that it would be impossible for a
woman to preside, one man near where we were
sitting said imagine a woman presiding over such
an assembly as this?"
	Sure enough, we thought, for even the Presi-
dent, Mr. Capeller, who is trying his best to main-
tain order, and declaring aloud he would "have
harmony if he had to fight for it" could not pos-
sibly preside with dignity, but if a woman had
been seated in the chair men would have behaved
better. Miss Anthony, Miss Willard, or Mrs.
Sewall and other women we know could have
kept just as good order as Mr. Capeller with all
due deference to the gentleman, his dignity, and
self-possession and his well-trained voice.
	Some of the members were loud in their praise
of Mrs. Abbott and she had a large number of
votes, but the tide of popular opinion was in favor
of the other nominee and so he was elected. Mrs.
Abbott seemed to be very popular with the
llinois delegation and with many others. She
conducts the Elite News, and is the Assistant
Cor. Sec'y of the Illinois Woman's Press Asso-
ciation and is said to be a very charming woman
porsonally. It would have been a very graceful
thing to have elected her, and a sort of a tacit ac-
knowledgement of woman's ability. To make
some sort of reparation or as a compliment to the
ladies, Miss Louise E. Francis was nominated as
Assistant Recording Secretary, and again an ob-
jection, this time that the Constitution made no
provision for such an office, Mr. Capellar declared
her elected any way, and whether she is really a
bona fide officer or not she may know, but we are
not at all sure. Miss Frances is a very competent
young person, has a great deal of independence,
and carries on her own business as a newspaper
editor and proprietor. She is a Californian by
birth and has been educated in her own state.
Her paper is the Castroville Enterprise and is the
official organ of the Pacific Coast Woman's Press
Association. At some future time we hope to
tell our readers more about these bright, plucky
California newspaper women.
	On Manday evening, May 30, there was an in-
formal reception at Mrs. Eyster's in order to bring
together some of the ladies who had not yet left
he city and have them meet members of the P.


Walton full in the face, "I don't quite under-
stand your meaning Doctor Bland.  Do you
insinuate that I am a coward to come into my
enemy's house after his death, to call on a
matter of importance?"
	Dr. Bland did not desire to reply and Wal-
ton rode on in silence until they reached the
courtyard.  Both gentlemen dismounted and
as the Doctor was familiar with the place he
escorted Lord Walton into the house and they
were shown into the library.
	"Tell Miss Conway a gentleman wishes to
see her on business," said the Doctor to the
servant, who soon returned saying Miss Con-
way would be down in a few minutes.
	Jane Conway wondered when summoned by
the servant what had brought a fine gentleman
to see her, for the serving man had described
him as a "foine big man," and she could not
imagine who it could be.  She was not long
in ascertaining, for coming into the room she
was introduced by the doctor to Lord Walton
and she knew at once he was Maitland's father
and suspected the rest.  The interview was not
a long one, and when it was over Lord Walton
insisted upon being presented to Miss Hillard.


