SOMETHING ABOUT VOTING.

	Mrs. President, friends and members of the
Association: it has fallen to my lot to write
something for our suffrage meeting, I have en-
deavored to do my best, and I trust that it
will be interesting and benefical to my hearers;
this is not a religious assembly, but for all that
we need the Spirit of God to direct us, we as
ladies and sisters should work together in
union and strive to have the approval of our
Heavenly Father.
	Why should men fear us at the polls? is it
because they themselves are so corrupt? There
is no mother, wife, daughter, or sister, but that
will vote for an honorable man instead of those
that seek the overthrow of good men; a
mother has the interest of her children at heart


and she desires the company in which they
move to be pure and upright.
	No matter how degraded a woman may
have become herself, she wishes not only to
see her own sons and daughters virtuous, but
also those with whom they may associate.
Men do not give women the credit of being
smart enough to vote. If the mothers are
capable of rearing sons that can vote, why not
her daughters, you would not see a lady reel
up to the Ballot Box, and not know for whom 
she was voting as you will some men, and
you would not see a mother selling her vote
for liquor or a meal,a drunken father is allowed
to vote while a good mother cannot say who
shall govern her sons and daughters; why
even tramps have been allowed to vote.  For
whom do they vote?  Men of the best and
finest type? no, that was not the object of their
vote, it was to get board and lodging.  Would
you find women doing such a degrading thing?
I think not, they would do their best to get an
honest meal; you will not find them tramping,
begging for something to eat from persons that
are sober and industrious.
	Some men do not think that the wife has
time enough to vote, but I think women can
make time for that, it does not take long to
deposit a ballot, that is a very poor excuse.
She needs a rest from sweeping and dusting
and looking after domestic affairs, the mother
would not spend the same time in voting as
her husband would; after she had cast her
vote, you would see her returning to her home 
and to her family, to look after their welfare;
not going away to places for drink, or loafing
on the street cornors.
	Some tell us we are likely to be insulted if
we go to vote; why need we fear anything of
the kind? why not go arm in arm with our
husband or brother? if a woman has property
she is forced to have the time to pay her taxes
and it would not take her any longer to vote
than to pay taxes, and she meets the same
class of men at the one place, as she does at
the other.  If we are to be taxed the same as
men why are we deprived of the right of say-
ing who shall tax us? it is time we were awak-
ing, and asking for our rights; for it is our
right and not a privilege.
	Some argue that for women to vote would
cause family trouble, why should it? man
should not be selfish enough to want his wife
to vote the way he does, the wife has the same
right to use her own judgment as the husband
has; for she will lend her influence in the
right direction nine cases out of ten.
	Let us educate ourselves in these matters that
when we get our franchise we may appreciate
its full value and not abuse it.  Let us honor
it as a God-given right is the desire of one of
your number. 
