		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.

	The Corresponding Secretary was directed
to write to the Secretary of the National Di-
vorce Reform League, Dr. Samuel Dike,
Auburndale, Mass., stating the desire of the
Council that women be placed upon the Board,
and that the Council has already appointed a
committee to urge this point with the League
	An interesting discussion was called out by
the report of the Dress Reform Committee.
It was decided to have the Symposium on
Dress, which has been prepared by this Com-
mittee for the Council, appear in the Arena.
	The following resolution, offered by Mrs.
E. B. Grannis, President of the National So-
ciety for the Promotion of Social Purity, was
unanimously adopted:

	Resolved, That it is the sense of the Execu-
tive Council of Women of the United States,
that the Health Boards of Hungary and Aus-
tria have set a true key-note for the dress-
reform by urging that legislation be had to
prevent the wearing of long skirts upon the
street, in view of the fact that such skirts gath-
er up poisonous material from the filth of the
streets, and thus endanger the public health.

	The President of the National Council, Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, gave a most encouraging
report of the progress of the Council movement
in foreign countries. As a result of the great
meeting of the French women held in 1889,
the inspiration to which was given by the In-
ternational Council at Washington in 1888, a
National Council of the Women of France
has been formed, and is ready to act in con-
junction with the National Council of the
United States, through the International
Council of Women. In Finland the
national bodies of women are federated through
the effects of Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg,
the representative of that country in the In-
ternational Council of 1888. The three Scan-
dinavian countries, Norway, Sweden and Den-
mark, have lately formed a Scandinavian
Council of Women. In Italy, a sort of Na-
tional Club of women has been formed, with
Queen Margherita as its leader and chief of-
ficer.
	Mrs. M. R. M. Wallace, President of the
Illinois Industrial Reform School for Girls,
member of the National Council, informed the
meeting of a convention of Industrial Reform
Schools which was held in Chicago, May 25.
Mrs. Wallace expects the result of this meet-
ing to be a national association of such schools.
In case of the formation of such an association,
if it shall enter the Council, Mrs. Wallace
thinks the school of which she is a representa-
tive would yield its place to the national society
representing the same idea.
	On Tuesday morning, Mrs. Frank Stuart
Parker, a member of the Council’s Committee
on Dress, gave some interesting information
on the subject, spoke of the large Dress Re-


form Association existing in Chicago, of the
approaching publication of a valuable work
on artistic dress, and promised that her own
contribution to the Symposium would be ready
within a week. Mrs. Parker said that she
could get photographs of some of the dresses
which would be described in her article. She
was instructed to do so, that they may be used
to illustrate the Symposium. On motion of
Miss Willard the resolution,on dress passed at
Washington, D. C., was passed again by the
Executive Meeting, with some slight changes.
	A discussion of headquarters followed. Mrs.
M. R. M. Wallace, Miss Anthony, Miss Wil-
lard and the President urged the importance
of permanent headquarters on the Fair
Grounds, and suggested the advisability of
other headquarters in the city before the
dedicatory exercises of the Exposition in Oc-
tober, 1892. It was decided that the Council,
having been invited by Mrs. Palmer, President
of the Board of Lady Managers, to make its
headquarters in the Woman’s Building, pre-
pare to occupy said headquarters during the
entire time of the Exposition. The Secretary
was directed to notify all national organizations
of women not already members of the Council
that they are invited to enter it, and that all
its members shall have desk room in its head-
quarters at the World’s Fair.
	Miss Anthony and Mrs. Avery reported
their informal talk with Mr. Bonney, President
of the Auxiliary Congresses of the Columbian
Exposition, and his expression of welcome to
the Council of Women; also that he thought
it would be possible to arrange that the Coun-
cil should have free use of the auditoriums
and some committee rooms of the Art Palace,
where the Congresses are to be held, yet re-
taining the entire management of its own meet-
ings. It was resolved that the application of
the Council be sent to President Bonney for
the gratuitous use of two audience rooms and
five committee rooms, day and evening, for one
week, and that the Council ask for such use of
the Art Palace for one week immediately pre-
ceding the meeting of the World’s Woman’s
Temperance Union.
	Tuesday afternoon it was decided, on mo-
tion of Miss Willard, that the Council provide
for a list of “Patrons of the Council.” Any
person whose name is acceptable to the gen-
eral officers may become a patron by payment
of $100 to the Council.
	The resignation of Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer
from the position of vice-president of the Coun-
cil, on account of poor health, was accepted
with regret.
	The following resolution was passed:

	Resolved, That we commend to the general
officers of the Council, with power to act, the
desirability of carrying out the plan proposed
by the first President in her address at Wash-
ington, D. C., in 1891, in regard to holding
a legislative congress of women at the Nation-
al Capital during the session of Congress, to
act on measures touching the welfare of wo-
men,and recommend the same to the consider-
ation of Congress.

	The President announced her intention of
spending the summer in Europe working in
the interests of the Council, and received the
unanimous approval of the meeting upon her
plan of dividing her time between England
and Germany.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
					Cor. Sec. N. C. W.


