OBITUARIES.

	Sarah Mulim Hill Mc Kendrick, born April
1st, 1862 in Ogden, Utah, died March 24,
1892 in Wellington, Utah.  She leaves a
family of small children, the youngest nine
days old; she was a faithful member of the
Relief, Society.
							COM.

	At Round Valley, Gila Co.  Arizona,
on May 5, 1892, the Death Angel carried
from our midst Lenore Gibson, aged 2 1/2 years,
daughter of Joseph and Ruth Gibson. She
had been a cripple since Sept. last, but was
improving slowly, when she was taken with


inflammation of the stomach. On May fifth
she was carried across that “Silvery Water,”
where she will await the coming of her loved
ones. No pure or more patient child ever liv-
ed. Too good and pure to live in this sinful
world.
						COM.
	The Lord in His infinite wisdom has seen fit
to call from our midst on the 10th of April
1892, our beloved Sister Maria Stevenson,
wife of William Richardson, aged 65 years.
	The deceased was born at Doncaster, Eng-
land. Was baptised into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter day Saints in 1847. Emigra-
ted to Utah in 1888. Came with her husband
to Plain City, and stayed with her nephew
Bishop J. W. Bramwell until they bought a
home, where they have lived until her death.
She was always patient in her sickness, suffered
much from liver and kidney disease which
caused her death. She was an affectionate and
loving wife and mother, a true and noble Lat-
terday Saint, for whose loss her bereaved hus-
band and her devoted sister M. A. Bramwell
with a host of loving nephews and nieces, and
her sisters of the Relief Society all are left to
mourn; but with the assurance of a glorious
resurrection.
		M. A. W. SPIERS, Sec. R. S.
	[Millennial Star please copy.]

	Our beloved sister M. A. Humphry Miller,
beloved wife of Brother Stephen Miller, died
at her residence in Plain City on the 1st of
April, 1892. Deceased was born in Heathfield,
Sussex Co., England in 1812, was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in Nov. 1854. Emigrated to Utah with
her husband and family in the year 1862; lived
in Wellsville Cache Valley four years, moved
to Plain City in 1866 where she has lived un-
til her death.
	Dear Sister Miller was a great sufferer all
through the last winter from a complication
of complaints, sciatica lung and heart disease,
terminating in pneumonia. She was a faith-
ful member of the Relief Society for many
years, and was an earnest worker as a teach-
er in the south district for a long time.
	She leaves a most loving husband, two sons,
and one daugh er to mourn her loss. Dear
Sister Miller was a true Latter-day Saint, an
affectionate wife and mother; in all her fearful
suffering she was never heard to complain.
One singular thing in her experience is that
in 1862, when she crossed the plains, her
health was so bad that all thought she would
die, and that she was too weak to bear the
journey in her then delicate condition, yet so
great was her faith in the power of healing,
that she was better in her confinement than
with any of her former children; although she
was then over 50 years of age.
	Rest, dear sister, in peace!
	M. A. W. SPIERS Sec. 	R. S. Plain City.


