THIS, THAT, AND THE OTHER.

	The national editorial party has left the Pacific
Coast, some of them going in one direction and
some in another; a part of the excursion go to
Salt Lake City; some of them via Portland and
the Northern country, and others, in a more
easterly direction, expecting to take in the various
sights and wonders, and look up the Great West
generally.
	Here in San Francisco the weather is pleasant
and the air delightful, with the fragrance of buds
and blossoms.  One can scarcely express the ad-
miration awakened by the floral beauties of this
garden of the world.  It is necessary to see for
one's self in order to believe, for no description
given can do justice to the subject.  Poets may
write, and artists may paint in glowing colors, but
"seeing is believing," for none of these however
clever can approach the reality.
	After going out to the beach and spending a
day there, which is the only relaxation we can
take time to indulge in, then we will turn home-
ward not from choice, for there is much still to
be seen that would be very desirable, only editors
must be at their post of duty and not away float-
ing with the tide of pleasure, or of circumstances.
One gets much material for use even in a short
trip to this Coast, for there is so much that is
new and suggestive and the newspapers, if one
can but take the time to glance through them, O,
dear,—the startling newsey news.
	The Pacific Coast Woman's Press Association
is what interests us most of all here, and the
ladies are doing good work in many ways.  The
President' Mrs. Nellie Blessing Eyster, the new
Cor. Sec'y Mrs. Hannah Neall, the Recording
Sec'y. Mrs. F. W. D'Eveyn, and the Treasurer
Mrs. Florence Percy Mathesen with the Ex. Com.
all seem to be very efficient and full of hope, as
well as abounding in energy, and with such able
women as Mrs. Alice Carey Waterman and Miss
Minna V. Lewis, Miss Eliza D. Keith (Di Vernon)
and others associated in their work, they must
make a success of any laudable undertaking.
They are warm-hearted, generous, and hospitable,
clever, witty and amiable. Mrs. Mathesen was a
Maine girl and talks of her native state enthusi-
astically.  She is arranging to issue very soon a
volume of poems of Pacific Coast writers, which
promises to be an interesting work.  The lady is
a poet herself as well as a story writer and writes
for Phila. Saturday Evening Post, Leslie's Illus-
trated Weekly, Portland Transcript, Wide Awake,
Metropolitan and other journals.
	Miss Lewis is a correspondent of the Business
Woman's Journal, N. Y. Newspaperdom, Kate
Field's Washington, Harper's Bazar, Californian
Illustrated, and the Home Maker. Mrs. D'Evelyn
(Kate Mc'Bride) writes for the Victoria College
Magazine, and Chicago Womad's News. Mrs.


Emily Browne Powell writes for the N. Y. Tri-
bune, Boston American Union, Ladies Home
Journal, of Phila., Springfield Daily Union,
Californian Illustrated, and local papers.  Mrs.
Waterman keeps her own counsel in regard to
her newspaper work and we have not yet ascer-
tained what papers she contributes to, but she is
a wide awake, earnest young woman, very inter-
esting in conversation.  Mrs. Maggie Downing
Brainard, of San Jose, is a typical Southern wo-
man, reminds one very much of Mrs. Willmirth
East, is from Mississippi and decidedly clever,
she is Ass’t editor of Santa Clara Valley Monthly,
correspondent to Clarion Ledger, Raymond Gazette
and Natchez Banner, (all of Mississippi.
	San Francisco, May 27, 1892.


[Column 1]

