AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.

	Monday night the 11th of April, in company
with Pres. F. A. Hammond, Sister Elizabeth
Howard and Mary A. Freeze, left the City by way
of the D. and R. G. R. R., to visit San Juan
Stake in the interest of women's organizations.
Sister Howard has given a description of her
journey for the EXPONENT, she says, "We en-
joyed the delightful scenery on the train by
moonlight, rather than sleeping, reached Thomp-
son's Springs the following morning, where a
carriage was in waiting to take us to Moab, arriv-
ing at that place about 4 p. m. We held meetings
the next day at 10 a. m., with the Relief Society,
and at 2 p. m. with the Y. L. M. I. A., and re-
mained there until the next morning, when
Brother Holyoak and wife went with us on our
way having fitted up a team with every conveni-
ence for traveling. After driving about 15 miles
we stopped to rest our horses etc., and lunched
at Kane Spring's; resuming our journey we
traveled over fearful gulches and dugways finally
coming to a lovely place, very grand, we camped
for the night, made a great fire of pine trees, pre-
pared supper and after singing and prayer—we
retired, slept well in the open air and felt refresh-
ed when we rose early in the morning; break-
fasted and pursued our way; arrived about noon
at Petersen's hill where we lunched; on our trip that
day we passed between the La Salle and Blue
Mountains far, far apart, and arrived at Monticello
at five p.m. where several of the sisters of the
Relief Society came to visit us at Bishop Jones,
whose wife is President of the Relief Society at
that place.
	"Next day, 16th, held meeting with the Relief
Society, had a large attendance; after dinner,
Young Ladies meeting, the house filled with
young men and young women;—this place is
7,500 feet above the level of the sea, a large level
tract of land, they raise good wheat and have ex-
cellent fruit; this locality is a grand site for the


[Column 1]
building of a magnificent city; looking over the
country one can see an immense distance around
the horizon;here we held a meeting of the Primary
Association at 7 p. m., stayed and attended pub-
lic Sunday services, meeting at ten in the meet-
ing house, Pres. Hammond gave a graphic des-
cription of the cap stone services at S. L. City
on the 6th of April; with which the people were
greatly delighted, as were we also. Sister
Freeze and myself both addressed the congrega-
tion a short time by special request.
	"Brother Geo. Adams came well prepared and
took us to our next camping place Alkali Springs;
we had a delightful drive, passed in the distance
the Elk mountains, when between 30 and 40 miles
on our journey we saw a hundred miles in the
distance, standing alone in a vast plain, a mag-
nificent structure of stone, which resembles a
large castle called "Cathedral Rock"-it stands
1,000 feet high and is one of the most striking
pictures of that wonderful country.
	"We camped for lunch that day on the bank of
Recapture river, which has some sort of tradition
of Indians, Spanish, etc., passed Comb-Wash
Rocks, prominent and steep very noticable, this
ledge is 30 miles long; afterwards we passed
Cotton wood wash a sort of gulch twining in and
out for 40 miles-over rough rocks and down
Cow-Canon one of the grandest places I have
ever seen-it was solid rock, the road had been
blasted, and cut, and dug through here at im-
mense expense and labor;-this canon ushers us
into the beautiful valley where Bluff city is situ-
ated on the San Juan river, where we arrived safe
on the 18th at the residence of Pres. Hammond
and there met his amiable wife and lovely
daughters. Tuesday we held the Young Ladies
meeting; on Wednesday held a meeting of the
Relief Society, and the same evening an informal
meeting of the officers of the several organiza-
tions R. S., Y. L., and P. A. at Sister Josephine
Wood's which we enjoyed very much, conversing
with these good sisters who live so far away from
the centre Stake of Zion.
	"The next day Mrs. Decker, Mrs. Hammond,
and Mrs. Freeze and myself ascended a very
high and steep hill, evidently the remains of some
ancient and immense ruin; it bore every appear-
ance of it;-on the top after our climbing and
clambering on and over the rocks we were per-
fectly delighted to find, and we picked up broken
pieces of ancient pottery, interesting curiosities
probably from utensils of the ancient inhabitants;
at the extreme end of this lofty eminence, is the
cemetery for Bluff, and to reach it the road winds
round and round a long distance, though we had
climbed up the other way.
	"The same afternoon, Thursday, at 2 p. m. we
organized a Woman's Suffrage Association for
San Juan County, with an efficient corps of
officers; considerable interest was manifested on
the subject and no doubt there will be quite an
awakening among the women of the vicinity.
	"Friday at 2 p. m. a general meeting of the
brethren and sisters, at which instructions were
given in all departments of woman's work and
improvement.
	"Saturday there was a Primary meeting well at-
tended; children orderly, and a fine programme
well carried out. Sunday School on Sunday
morning where both of us spoke, and afternoon
meeting where we both addressed the congrega-
tion by invitation.
	"On Monday we left Bluff early in the morning
Sister Hammond joining us, and traveled by
several Cliff Builders dwellings,which were great
curiosities and very interesting; Sister Freeze
went into one of them, was helped up one narrow
step after another in the rocky way by Brother
Burton, until she reached the opening, and had
the opportunity of going inside through the
window as the door was inaccessible. We rest-
ed at Montezuma Wash and lunched there under

[Column 2]
some very grand old trees. We traveled over an
extraordinary formation of art called Corduroy
hill; at the foot of which there are millions of
marbles formed by the elements as hard as rocks.
We crossed Mac’EImo’s Wash, a very hazardous
exploit, then we came to a trading post where
there were a number of Indians, it is named Peak
City; that night we camped out again and indeed
the making of our beds of the pine tree boughs at
our camping places was something quite ro-
mantic
	"Tuesday morning we crossed the line into
Colorado, we lunched in camp and soon came to
the Mancos river where we had supper on the
banks, the river was so high and rapid that Pres.
Hammond was anxious to know the depth of the
water before we crossed, and called to a stalwart
young Indian on the opposite side of the stream,
who wrapping his blanket around him, strode
through the stream, and thus finding it safe to
cross we drove over, the water reaching the edge
of the carriage, but toiling up the other side was
difficult; immediately after we crossed the river
we saw large flocks of young lambs and kids,
beautiful and white, feeding and playing about,
it was a very pretty sight;these all belonged to the
squaws in that vicinity; we rode to a ravine where
we camped over night; we traveled on in the
morning and breakfasted in a grand canon, a
most romantic place, and Mrs. Freeze and I
climbed the hills and picked up more pieces of
pottery and curiosities; we arrived in Olio in the
afternoon. The next day in the afternoon we
held a meeting of the Relief Society at Brother
Geo. Burnham's, and in the evening in the meet-
ing house where there was a large assembly, not
only of our people but other denominations.
	"Next day we paid a visit to an Indian trading
post, to reach, which place we crossed the San
Juan river in a ferry boat which is a wide turbu-
lent stream; we had a very nice visit with the
trader's wife and family.
	"We also visited Mrs. Abagail Stevens and
family, and at her house we held a meeting of the
Relief Society; Saturday we held a general meet-
ing in the meeting house not only attended by our
own people but other denominations as well.
	"Sunday being the general fast day observed
throughout the several stakes of Zion, we at-
tended the meeting, there were people from La
Platta as well; at this meeting every one present
bore their testimony young and old which was a
spiritual feast indeed. In the evening of the same
day the sisters held a general meeting of all de-
nominations, and it was a very interesting time.
	"Monday we spent the time in visiting,Tuesday
morning Brother and Sister Hammond started
off early; later in the day we left in company
with Bishop Burnham; we traveled to La Platta,
the scenery was grand all the journey; traveled
by the La Platta river and reached the town of
La Platta in time to hold meeting in the evening
at Brother Roger's, had a good attendance.
	The next morning May 4, we went to Sister
Lydia Taylor's and as she had a large and
spacious room suitable to convene an assembly,
the funeral of Axel Swan was held at her house
he was a promising intelligent young man, who
had died the day previous. Our arrival was
timely for the parents were grieving inconsolably
as it were,and we were enabled to comfort them in
a measure and soften the terrible blow that
seemed to have fallen upon them so heavily. In
the afternoon we held Primary meeting and the
children acquitted themselves very creditably in-
deed. All the Primary Associations seemed to
be well regulated and the children under good
training. Our journey has been delightful in
many ways, and as we were not hurried we had
excellent opportunity to familiarize ourselves with
the people and understand things much better
than in a hasty trip.
[To be continued.]


