A DAY IN HEIDELBERG.

	In all things, music, art, fiction, tragedy,
poetry, history, and religion, there is a grand
climax. This acme is advanced and receded
by many ways, byways and channels, all
pointing to the one grand center, with their
trills and variations, their mellow tints, lights
and shades; their descriptive and romantic
scenes; their intrigues and ambitions; their
metaphors and gentle rhyming; their sorrows,
trials, labor and their gallantry; their prayers,
faith and convictions. How beautiful is the fact
that one attains this acme by gentle and fasci-
nating approaches, then it charms. How sad
if the grandest height came suddenly upon
one, it could only terrify. The sublime
symphony that pervades an oratirio through
its introduction,recitatives,airs, solos, choruses,
thrills and enchants the soul until one is pre-
pared to appreciate and delight in the grand
finale. Just so by gentle approaches and by
ways the writer decided to appreciate and en-
joy the quaint and historical city and castle of
Heidelberg. 'Twas a warm, pleasant day in
March as we left Karlsruhe, the beautiful
capital of Baden, and traversed the pretty
country shaded by the hills and mountains of
the Black Forest. The fields were green, the
orchards were assuming their Spring time
garb of leaves and sweet blossoms, women and
children were working in the vineyards
straightening and uncovering the vines. The
ride was enchanting, passing now and then a
pretty village with its white church steeple
towering above the houses and pointing to the
heavens as a signal of hope, and past the silent
green grave yards, where some beloved ones
are sleeping for ever more, even past the grave
of Fredrika Brion, Goethe's early love, past
many ruins and castles each with its own
peculiar legend, along miles of country skirted
by the Black Forest and the great mountain
Feldberg looming like a monarch above them
all. Approaching Heidelberg along the historic
Neckar viewing castles ruined and restored,
one is almost prepared for the solemn and
magnificent spectacle of the quaint and
crooked city guarded by the grandest ruin in
the German empire; but first gaze on the
gently sloping hills on the opposite shore
where large trees with their expanding boughs
shade the memorable path known as the philo-

[Column 2]
sophers' way; how many great minds have
conned their lessons, and composed their life's
work while treading that beautiful path. At
length when the handsome old bridge con-
structed more than a century ago by Charles
Theodore is reached, then we turn our faces
to the right and behold the grandest sight of
all-the castle-the climax of the day is
reached and for moments I stood apart breath-
less, silently admiring and devouring the scene.
'Twas early evening and the sun's last rays
were tinting the rounded towers with a golden
glow. All else lay in the shade, a gloomy
massive pile, barren of all ornament save the
ivy vines and slender ferns that cling tenderly
to its dark and sombre walls. A monument
on the hillside commemorating ages of daring
deeds, of chivalry, of romance and of splendor.
The city streets are narrow and crooked, the
buildings tall and old and dark,and so shading
the streets that it is a positive relief to enter the
principal promenade, the Anlage where the
walks and drives are broader, and there among
the border shrubs and trees are pretty rustic
seats where one can watch the fashionable
ladies, the children with their nurses, the
pretty girls with their staid chaperones, and
the gaily attired students strolling, riding,
bicycle riding. One almost shudders at the
sight of the scarred faces of the students and
wonders how so dreadful a practice as dueling
can be so popular among intelligent men, and
yet the students were none of them very young
and of course must be learned to belong to the
great university Ruperto Carola of Heidelberg,
known as the Cradle of Science of Germany,
and the third oldest in the empire.
	The city assumed a quiet aspect as night
came on and the great stone pile on the hillside
seemed more sombre and gloomy than ever,
and yet in the days of its glory, when the
home of kings and queens,how lovely it must
have appeared at night with its brilliant lights
shining through the hundreds of windows.
'Twas then as a sentinel guarding the city.
'Tis now but a monument of the past. In the
early morning as the sun just kissed the moun-
tain peaks, and the birds their matins sung, we
were leisurely walking up the long, narrow
path by the outer wall,—a path densely
shaded with grand old trees on one side and
the high massive wall hung with ivy on the
other. Reaching the castle grounds a winding
path leads to the entrance facing the town-
where from the terraced grounds one can view
the entire city with the majestic heights sur-
rounding it, and beyond, the vast plain watered
by the Rhine. Reaching the castle the elegant
palace of Frederic IV. confronts one. It re-
sembles in design work of the Renaissance,
though it was built in the sixteenth century.
Between each of the mullioned windows are
niches each of which contains a statue; this is
the best preserved outer part of the whole
castle and was the finest and most elaborate,
and the interior was finished in the same style,
but now the walls are all barren of ornament,
only occasional fragments of sculpture to be
seen. Wandering through low arched halls,
stopping occasionally to look through the
windows into the gardens and over the city
now assuming a brighter, busier appearance
with the advance of day, we reached the
castle court yard where broken statues and
silent fountains sadly tell of past beauty.
The front of the Otto Frederick castle, facing
the court is finer than the outer wall and


the stone steps before the entrance still
though somewhat broken retain some of their
elegance.  From the tower of this palace the
view is enchanting, extending far over the
Rhine Valley.  Through long halls and rooms,
round and square, large and small,all alike in
their barrenness,we reached the English palace,
which was built for the Princess Elizabeth,
daughter of James the First and Anne, and
wife of the Winter King, Frederick, Elector
Palatine.  This poor princess had many sor-
rows and afflictions though she was so beloved 
by her friends as to be called the “Queen of
Hearts.”  The rooms to this wing are smaller
and the windows are long and pleasanter than
in other parts of the castle, and the apartments
when furnished must have been more home
like to an English Princess.  In the corner of
this wing is a round massive tower known as
the Dicke Thurm, (Thick Tower), its walls are
twenty-seven feet thick along the upper walls.
We walked to the corner where the broken
tower forms now the most picturesque part of
the castle.  When Melac the French com-
mander tried to blow up the castle, after
several attempts all he succeeded in doing was
to break in half this massive tower, and now,
more than two centuries after, one part stands
erect as ever while the other lies on its side in
the moat below covered with beautiful ferns
and clinging ivy.  Some rooms in the castle
in the front overlooking the city are well pre-
served and inhabited, and in the large halls
are kept relics of the castle, pictures, vases,
swords, et cetera.  Among the relics are
pictures of the life of the young student Sand
who drew the fatal number to kill Kotzebue, a
professor who had displeased the students by
some of his writings. Sand was taken to
Mannheim, tried and beheaded for this deed.
	Reluctantly, yet with a sensation of relief
from the oppressive sadness of the old castle,
we turn again into the gardens and from
different positions view the sombre structure.
The paths and the walks are winding and en-
chanting, and the views obtained from the 
heights are beyond description.  The rays of
the setting sun shone on the ramparts and the
shadows lay dark and dense around the
vaulted walls as we again entered the shaded
path, this time with the castle behind us.
Thus ended a day in Heidelberg.
							A. W. C.


