[Vol10 | August 1923 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field]

Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
PROGRAM OF AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS FOR 1923 (To be held in connection with the regular quarterly conferences)
July 28-29: Alberta, Curlew, Lost River, Raft River, Summit. Aug. 1-2: Taylor. Aug. 4-5: Emery, Lethbridge, Millard, South Sanpete, Gunnison, Snowflake. Aug. 7-8: St. Johns. Aug. 11-12: Big Horn, Juab, Oneida, Wayne, Los Angeles. Aug. 18-19: Bannock, Blackfoot, Blaine, Malad, Shelley, South Sevier, Teton. Aug. 25-26: Bingham, Burley, Garfield, Idaho, Pocatello, San Juan. Aug. 28-29: Young. Sept. 1-2: San Luis, Bear Lake, Bear River, Boise, Franklin, Panguitch. Sept. 4-5: Kanab. Sept. 8-9: Montpelier, St. George. Sept. 15-16: Morgan, Roosevelt. Sept. 19-20: Uintah. Sept. 22-23: Duchesne, North Sanpete, Parowan, Star Valley. Sept. 29-30: Carbon, Deseret, Fremont, Sevier, Union. Oct. 6-7: Portneuf, Twin Falls, Rigby, St.
Following the October general conference: Benson, Hyrum North Sevier, Tooele, Wasatch, Beaver, Cassia, Tintic, Woodruff, Yellowstone, Moapa, Maricopa, Juarez, St. Joseph.
Separate conventions are to be held in the following stakes, the dates to be given later in a separate program: Alpine, Box Elder, Cache, Cottonwood, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Liberty, Logan, Mt. Ogden, Nebo, North Davis, North Weber, Ogden, Oquirrh, Pioneer, Salt Lake, South Davis, Utah, Weber.
INSTRUCTIONS
Arrangements for the holding of Stake Group Conventions during 1923 have been made with the approval of the General Authorities of the Church. These group conventions will be similar to those held in 1922, with the Relief Society, Sunday
School, Y. M. M. I. A., Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary Associations of each stake participating. It is expected that all stake and ward officers and teachers of these organizations will be in attendance, as indicated by the program. The Stake Presidency will have general charge of the convention as at regular quarterly conference, and all presiding authorities, the priesthood, and general public are invited to attend. Meetings are arranged that will offer practical and definite assistance to each association, and it is hoped that each of these meetings will be favored by the attendance of a fair proportion of priesthood authorities. The regular quarterly conference sessions are for the benefit of the entire stake membership. The stake chorister will supervise and direct the music for such general sessions. It will be noted that at certain periods five auxiliary organizations will be holding separate sessions at the same time, and it is hoped that there will be definite understanding among all organizations as to what rooms shall be used and by whom, so that confusion and loss of time may be avoided. In order for the general representatives of the auxiliary organizations who will be in attendance to do effective work at the convention, it is necessary that all stake and ward organizations be completely organized, and, so far as possible, that there be no duplication of office.
TIME OF MEETINGS
Saturday 10:00-11:20 a. m.: Regular Quarterly Conference Session. 11:30-12:45 p. m.: Joint Auxiliary Stake Board Meeting, including stake presidency, high council, and ward bishoprics. 12:50-1:50 p. m.: Relief Society Stake Board Meeting. 2:00-3:20 p. m.: Regular Conference Session. 3:30-5:30 p. m.: Separate Auxiliary Stake Board Meetings. (Excepting Relief Society which will hold a Stake and Local Officers' meeting.) 8-10 p. m.: Social for all stake and ward officers and teachers of all auxiliary organizations, under supervision stake recreation committee M. I. A.
Sunday 9:00-10:30 a. m.: Separate Auxiliary Meetings. 10:30-12:00 noon: Joint Sunday School and Primary Session. 12:00-1:00 p. m.: Stake and Ward Music Committee Meeting. 2:00-4:00 p. m.: Regular Quarterly Conference Session. Sunday Evening: Mutual Improvement Association Meeting.

PROGRAM OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS
Saturday, 12:50 to 1:50 p. m. Relief Society Stake Board (Stake Board only)
I. Questionnaire, to be filled in by General Board member during session. II. Miscellaneous.
Saturday, 3:30 to 5:30 p. m. Relief Society Stake and Local Officers Bishops Especially Invited (Officers and especially invited guests only)
I. The Family. II. Ward Questionnaire. III. Discussion. IV. Work and Business Meeting.
Sunday, 9:00 to 10:30 a. m. Relief Society Stake and Local Officers (Officers only)
I. How to create atmosphere for a Relief Society meeting. II. Elements of a Lesson. III. Testimony.
Note: In addition to the special Relief Society meetings, the Relief Society stake board members will be expected to attend the joint auxiliary stake board meeting, Saturday, from 11:30 a. m. to 12:45 p. m.
Union Stake
In all the wards in Union stake interesting programs were given on Relief Society annual day, commemorating the organization of the Relief Society. The Union stake also reports that several successful Magazine parties have been held at which choice poems and selections from back volumes of the Relief Society Magazine were given. Games in keeping with the occasion were played, and in one ward, a song was especially composed. A unique contest was conducted. Each association of the stake was asked to submit ten reasons why every Latter-day Saint woman should be a Magazine subscriber. These reasons were judged and the organization awarded first prize received three subscriptions, the society awarded second prize received two subscriptions, and all others were presented with one yearly subscription. These prize subscriptions were placed in the homes of non-members of the Church. As an incentive to increase attendance, the board has decided to present a silver vase to the ward
having the highest average annual attendance (it must be above 50%). The vase will be held by the winning ward for one year, and each year thereafter it will be presented to the ward which merits it. After scoring for three years, the ward with the highest average attendance will receive a complete set of Church works: Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price.
Western States Mission
DENVER BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY
The accompanying picture of the Denver Branch Relief Society, has been sent to Relief Society headquarters, together with an interesting report of the activities of the branch. The letter, in part, reads: "One of the greatest privileges the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints enjoy is membership in the Relief Society organization. It is in this organization that they have the opportunity of expressing their great love for human kind and for their God. This spirit of love and service actuates the Denver branch Relief Society, and during the past season this spirit has brought happiness and joy to the lives of each officer and member of this organization.
"The class work is conducted the same as in the stakes of Zion. The lessons are presented as outlined in the Relief Society

Magazine. During the sewing and social Tuesday, several quilts, rag rugs and baby layettes have been made. Clothing has also been made and prepared for distribution to the needy. The Relief Society members assisted by the missionaries make their monthly visits to every Latter-day Saint home in Denver.
"The Denver branch Relief Society conference was held Sunday, December 17. A full report of their work was given by the officers of the organization. Splendid musical numbers were rendered.
"On March 17, the Denver organization celebrated the Relief Society anniversary day by conducting a special program in the Denver chapel. Several social affairs have been conducted during the winter for the purpose of raising funds for the relief work. On February 14, the Relief Society bazaar was held. Dainty articles of needle work, hand painted china, as well as practical articles, were made and donated by the members. Supper was a feature of the affair. The Relief Society cleared $125 on this occasion. Mrs. Mary A. Van Schoonhoven is president of this society."
Maricopa Stake
The Maricopa stake is conducting attendance contests, the winning ward to receive one dozen Relief Society song books at the end of the year. The Papago Indian Relief Society women, about twenty-five in number, and some of their children, were the guests of the Maricopa stake board on May 9. Every member of the stake board and the Relief Society Second ward presidency, laden with sandwiches, doughnuts, and ice cream, visited them. Everyone present enjoyed the refreshments and the program of songs, reading, and folk dancing. The president of this branch, Ellen E. Tiffany, gave birth to a baby boy, her twelfth child, early in May. On the occasion of the Relief Society party, she received many useful and beautiful presents from the visitors and from the native women.
Samoan Mission
Mrs. Thurza Adams, president of Samoan Mission Relief Societies, in a letter to the General Board, reports the unusual occurrences of the Relief Society annual day. The accompanying picture shows Mrs. Adams and her three small daughters on the raft referred to in the following description of their experiences: "Representatives from two other branches met with the organization of Pesega at the latter place for a program appropriate for the Seventeenth of March, to be followed by a general feast. A number of Relief Society women were present, despite the
threatening weather, and we proceeded with the business of sustaining the officers, reading the minutes of the meeting of a year ago, collecting the annual fund, which practically everyone paid, and an interesting program was carried out. Just before the close of the service, rain began falling as it does in the tropics only, and in possibly half an hour or less as much had descended in veritable sheets as Utah receives in six months. The water rose rapidly, until we could see that we would soon be marooned in the house we were in, for the water crept up the cement pillars upon which the building sets, at a rapid rate. Soon the entire lawn
[IMAGE CAPTION: MRS. ADAMS AND THREE CHILDREN ON RAFT]
which serves as grounds for Mission Headquarters, was covered like a lake, only high objects like coconut trees, buildings, etc., being seen. At the close of the meeting a couple of native boys brought a raft constructed from old lumber that was floating away, and on this we were ferried, two or three at a time, nearly a hundred yards across the lot to the Mission House. As soon as possible, the feast was spread in the large native house across the street, belonging to our Samoan missionary, Aupiu, and the sisters surrounded the banana-leaf table upon which were heaped the various foods of Samoa. All in all, the day was very successful, and certainly it was quite unusual."
St. George Stake
Mrs. Sariah Anna Workman is one of the venerable women of St. George stake. She is ninety-one years of age, and has been an active Church worker all her life. She was president of the Relief Society of Virgin ward, of the St. George stake, for

twenty years. Mrs. Workman was born at Amherst, Ohio, February 18, 1832. She lived in Kirtland, Ohio until she was seven years of age. About this time the Saints moved to Jackson county, Missouri, her father serving in the migration as a captain of a company. Later in Carthage, Illinois, Mrs. Workman became well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, as her father was closely associated with him. Mrs. Workman lived with her grandmother Johnson in Nauvoo until the Saints came west in 1848. On July 1, 1849, she was married in Salt Lake City to John Eager. From this union eight children were born. She became a widow in 1864, and soon after her husband's death, she moved with her brother, Nephi Johnson, to Virgin, Utah, where she made a home for her children. Her first home in Virgin was a rough dugout. She was called to endure the hardships of pioneer life. In 1866 she was married to Andrew Jackson Workman and five sons were born to them. Mrs. Workman can look back upon her life with satisfaction, for in rearing her large family, in building up her community, and in laboring in the Church organizations, she performed a great service and achieved a useful career.
Oquirrh Stake
On June 3, 1923, the Oquirrh stake was organized, which is a division of the Cottonwood and Pioneer stakes. Mrs. Emma S. Jacobs was sustained as president of the Relief Society of this new stake.
Sevier Stake
The Relief Society board of the Sevier stake reports that some of its members recently visited an especially interesting meeting at Glenwood ward. Glenwood is a small ward but the Relief Society has a membership of sixty. On the occasion of the stake board members' visit, there were sixty-one members present, including the visitors; also thirty babies. A splendid meeting was held and after the program, refreshments were served to all present.
Northwestern States Mission
The Relief Society of the Moscow, Idaho, branch has submitted the accompanying picture to the Relief Society Magazine, together with a report of its activities. The Moscow branch is a part of the East Washington conference of the Northwestern States mission. This society was organized October 30, 1921, and since its organization, it has held weekly meetings and followed the outlined lessons in the Magazine. This branch has done a little charity work, and has sewed clothing for distribution among those in need, and it has furnished a sacrament tray for the
branch. This year the society collected one hundred per cent. Annual dues and nearly all of the members are Magazine subscribers. There is no meetinghouse in Moscow, so the Relief Society sessions are held in the homes of members. Mrs. Lucy B. Sudweeks is president of this active little organization.
[IMAGE CAPTION: MOSCOW, IDAHO, BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY]
Boise Stake
The Boise stake board has made special plans for the summer work for the Relief Society. The board has requested that at least two demonstration classes be held in each organization during the coming summer, on food, health, and clothing. The preparation of foods, the ways and means of promoting and preserving health, and the making of clothing at home, are some of the topics suggested. One of the wards has formed a nursing class under the direction of the Red Cross nurse, and other wards have held demonstration classes in the making of hats, and other articles of clothing. One of the wards co-operated with the Red Cross and formed a "Kiddie Camp" to which all under-nourished children were invited to come for examination. Numerous mothers brought their children to this camp and learned some of the fundamentals of health and diet. Practically all of the Relief Societies in this stake held clinics at which numerous children were examined and the parents advised as to the care and treatment needed to promote the health and development of the children. The doctors in the communities were very generous in giving their time to these clinics, and in many instances where it was necessary, the doctors performed operations and gave other medical attention, without charge.