[Vol10 | August 1923 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature - The Literary Contribution of New England]

LESSON III Literature (Third Week in October)
THE LITERARY CONTRIBUTION OF NEW ENGLAND
It was inevitable, after the Declaration of Independence which gave the American people political liberty, that there should be intense striving for intellectual emancipation. The tendency to suppress that had marked the Puritanic period, robbing life of its color, its natural exuberance of feeling, and its tendency towards humor, was sure to be protested sooner or later. During the days of Benjamin Franklin, all eyes were upon Philadelphia as a literary center. Later, Irving, Cooper and Bryant drew attention to New York. Just passing the first quarter of the nineteenth century, the first outburst of poetry in New England occurred, and we were face to face with what has been styled the New England Renaissance. The souls of the young were crying for a fuller expression of the life that reverberated within them, and they found in Ralph Waldo Emerson a man who could voice their impulses. The Puritan had scraped the paintings from his church windows, he had cast the wood carvings and all suggestions of decoration out of his church, not alone because of forced economy, but from a deep-seated feeling that these things were sinful and indicated that he was indulging the flesh. The same impulse that led him to eliminate his stained glass windows also prompted him to refrain from any contact with the literature of exact finish and beauty then being produced in England. To Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, whose spirit was meek and mild and whose life was in all respects above reproach, it was given to be the revelator of some of this beauty and to so combine it with Puritan morals that it could give no offense. There is scarcely a poem of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's that does not hold within it some moral maxim that has for its purpose improvement of conduct, yet that moral gem is so surrounded by beauty of feeling and language, that it loses largely its peculiar Puritanic flavor. In a sense it is like a sugar-coated pill, one is preached to and admonished but the admonition is served in such delectable form that one is not conscious of a bitter taste.

One of Longfellow's greatest contributions to our literature comes from the fact that he went abroad and came in contact with the literature of Spain, France, Italy and Germany and made it part of our own literature. This was not an easy thing to do, but Longfellow had just the cast of mind that could extract the beauty and warmth of feeling from European art, and so incorporate it into American literature that the American of Puritanic birth and training could accept of it without offense. No study of Longfellow can be satisfactory that does not take into account the sincerity, serenity and sweetness of his nature. He was the embodiment in his life of the things his writings teach. Whatever his gift of song, his gift to the world of an untarnished life is what, at our angle, we value most. Longfellow's writings carry his autobiography in far greater detail than is the case with most of the poets. He was born in Portland, Maine, and, in a poem called "My Lost Youth," he speaks of "The beauty and mystery of the ships and the magic of the sea." He was surrounded, as were Bryant and Cooper, by the interminable forests of America and, like them, revelled in the grandeur of nature. He early became connected with Bowdoin College and was a student in that institution with Bancroft, the historian, Franklin Pierce, who was afterwards President of the United States, and Nathaniel Hawthorne. After graduation from Bowdoin, he accepted the position of professor of modern languages in that college. Longfellow was always popular as a professor and soon his fame reached the halls of Harvard University. He was asked to accept a chair for similar work at Harvard, and, feeling that he needed greater preparation, he again went abroad. It was at this time that he lost his beloved wife, Mary Storrer Potter, whose death, in 1835, was his first great sorrow. His reference to her in the poem "Footsteps of Angels," when he pictures spirits from the other world visiting this, reading: "And with them that Being Beauteous, Who unto my youth was given, More than all things else to love me, And is now a saint in heaven." has been read by many admirers. He went to Cambridge and found lodgings in the old Craigie House, overlooking the Charles river, which was the headquarters of the British soldiers and finally of Washington during the period of the American Revolution. Later he became engaged to Miss Frances Appleton, the daughter of a wealthy publisher of Boston. Longfellow had become so enamored with the old Craigie House that his father-in-law helped them to obtain it for their home. Here his children were born and here in this house they used to pounce on him from the upper story into his study. We are all of us familiar with the lines, "From my study I see in the lamplight, Descending the broad hall stair, Grave Alice, and laughing Allegra, And Edith with golden hair," A second time he was called to part with his life's companion. A tragedy from which he never fully recovered took Mrs. Longfellow from him. She was doing something to amuse the children, when the flame of a lighted candle caught her dress, made of a very light substance, and before anything could be done she was burned so badly that death resulted. Eighteen years after, in thinking of her, Longfellow wrote, as his mind turned to one of our Colorado mountains: There is a mountain in the distant West That, sun-defying, in its deep ravines Displays a cross of snow upon its side. Such is the cross I wear upon my breast, These eighteen years, through all the changing scenes And seasons changeless since the day she died. Longfellow's poetry is simple and was just the kind needed by a people breaking from Puritan life. It is said that when he visited England he was invited to dine with Queen Victoria. As she parted from him after their visit, she remarked, "We shall long remember your visit, Mr. Longfellow, all our servants read your poems." Some people have suggested that this remark of Queen Victoria was not wholly complimentary to Longfellow. It did, however, state the thing as it is. It is children and the people, who are not in any sense of the word students of literature, who love Longfellow. In other words, Longfellow has taught the masses to read poetry. They have entered into the gate through him. It is not easy to estimate just what Longfellow's contribution is to children. He took the place in earlier times that was later held by James Whitcombe Riley and Eugene Field. It is a common experience even today to hear the little tots in the grades repeating the line of Hiawatha. The poet was the son of a cultured New England lawyer. His father's people came to America in 1676, and his mother had descended from John and Priscilla Alden whose romance is given to us in the Courtship of Miles Standish. To summarize, then, Longfellow's special contributions to literature, we should say that he pierced the gloom and terror of Puritan severity and harshness and let in beauty and charm, and to do this he depended not only on his own inherent nature, but on his accumulations from Europe, where he came in contact with the beauty and romance of the old world. He is simple, readily understood. He has embodied in practically every one of his poems some of the moral axioms that would explain to people of Puritanic life and virtues the reason for the existence of poetry. Previous to and during Longfellow's time there were many people who could not understand Emerson's famous maxim that "Beauty is its own excuse for being." Longfellow has taught all English speaking people to love poetry and his poems have been translated into many foreign tongues. He is one of the children's poets of America. The next lesson will discuss his poetry and prose more in detail.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Consult some manual of American literature, or a volume of Longfellow's poems, containing a biographical sketch, and find out the date of his birth.
2. What body of water was Longfellow in close contact with in his early youth?
3. In what two colleges did he hold a professorship of modern languages?
4. If you were visiting the state of Massachusetts, in what city would you seek the home of Longfellow? Have one of the class members read "Footsteps of Angels."
5. Do you know any people today who think poetry is useless, unless it contains some moral maxim?
6. How do you feel toward poetry that is beautiful yet may not contain a stated moral idea?
7. Which sort of poetry do you prefer?
8. Read to the class "The Arrow and the Song," and also "A Psalm of Life." What moral lesson is included in each of these poems?