[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 855 | Lesson | Theology — The Revelation on Priesthood Roy | W. Doxey]

THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants

Elder Roy W. Doxey

Lesson 61 — The Revelation on Priesthood

(Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84:1-42)

For First Meeting, February 1965

Objective: To understand the importance of the Priesthood in the salvation of man; the special blessings available to this generation of Priesthood bearers; and the importance of the Priesthood as reflected in its oath and covenant.

INTRODUCTION

FROM the spring until the fall of 1832, the Prophet Joseph Smith continued the revision of the Bible. In July the first copy of the Evening and Morning Star was received by him. This brought joy to the Prophet and the saints because they now had a publication in which to present the message of the restoration of the gospel to the world. This publication also served as the printed depository of many revelations, since bound copies of the revelations did not come off the press in quantity until 1835. It will be remembered that of the 1833 edition all save a few copies of some of the forms of the unfinished book were destroyed when a Missouri mob destroyed the press upon which it was being printed. This new periodical was also a means through which the saints could answer the false charges which their enemies made against them.

During the month of September the elders came in from their missions to report their stewardships. While thus engaged on the 22d and 23d of that month, the Lord opened the mind of the Prophet and gave him a remarkable revelation on Priesthood.

NEW JERUSALEM TEMPLE

Section 84 begins with the assertion that the Church is to

855

NOVEMBER 1964

gather the Lord's people as predicted by the prophets. Moreover, the gathering place at that time, and also in the future, is the city of New Jerusalem where the saints will stand in the last days. (Verses 1-2.) A promise is made concerning the temple which will be erected in that city located in the western boundaries of the State of Missouri, the place already dedicated by the Prophet. In this prediction, the Lord says that the temple upon which his glory would rest would be reared in this generation. (Verses 3-5.)

Inasmuch as that temple has not been built within an hundred years of 1832, some members of the Church have wondered about the length of a generation. Although a generation, under certain conditions, is mentioned in The Book of Mormon as an hundred years (Helaman 13:8-11), the term, under other conditions, refers to an indefinite period. For example, Jesus said that it was an evil and adulterous generation that sought after a sign (Matt. 12:39), and in our dispensation the Lord said that "this generation shall have my word through you" (Joseph Smith) (D&C 5:10). From these examples, it is clear that the dispensation of the fulness of times is considered a generation, for the people of our time are still receiving the word of the Lord in the revelations received through Joseph Smith. There is no way of determining the number of years meant in Section 84, verses 4 and 5. There are two things to be known, however. First, that the Lord has said through his Prophet that the

temple will be built in this generation, and second, that from the time this announcement was made, the leaders of the Church have never departed from the Lord's intention.

PRIESTHOOD GENEALOGY

This revelation dealing with Priesthood appropriately begins with information about the building of the temple. The temple is the sanctuary where the highest ordinances and blessings of the Priesthood are received. (D&C 124:25-42.) Next, we find the genealogy of the Priesthood as held by Moses. (Ibid., 84:6-16.) The Priesthood is eternal and continues in the true Church. (Verse 17.)

THE KNOWLEDGE OF GOD

After referring to the Lesser or Aaronic Priesthood as a part of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the powers of the Higher Priesthood are stated in this way:

And this greater priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God. Therefore, in the ordinance thereof, the power of godliness is manifest. And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh;

For without this no man can see the face of God, even the Father, and live (D&C 84:19-22).

The Melchizedek Priesthood holds the key to all the spiritual blessings of the gospel. The knowledge of God and the true plan of salvation is possible only through the divine means which the Lord has established. Life

856

LESSON DEPARTMENT

eternal is unavailable without the ordinances of the gospel administered by the authority to seal those ordinances on earth as they are sealed in the heavens. The mysteries of the kingdom of God, as administered in the temple of God, are reserved for those who desire exaltation. These ordinances are for the faithful and not for the world. (Matt. 13:10-13; Alma 12:9-11.) In Section 84, verses 21 and 22, it is said that in order for one to see the face of God, and, therefore, to know him, the Priesthood is necessary.

ANCIENT ISRAEL

In Section 84, attention is directed to the experience of the children of Israel in the days of Moses. (Verses 23-27.) Moses endeavored to teach the principles of exaltation to Israel, but they hardened their hearts and thus denied themselves the opportunity to enter into the Lord's presence. Moses held the Higher Priesthood and, while on Mount Horeb, the Lord gave him the fulness of the gospel with its principles and ordinances of exaltation. When Moses saw the idolatrous condition of the Israelites, he broke the tablet of writings. Another tablet containing the law of carnal commandments, as mentioned in Section 84, verses 26 and 27, was given him and the Melchizedek Priesthood was taken away from Israel. In the revision of the Bible by Joseph Smith, we find the following, which is in harmony with Section 84:

And the Lord said unto Moses, Hew thee two other tables of stone, like unto the first, and I will write upon them also, the words of the law, according as they were written at the first on the tables which thou brakest, but it shall not be according to the first, for I will take away the priesthood out of their midst; therefore my holy order, and the ordinances thereof, shall not go before them; for my presence shall not go up in their midst, lest I destroy them.

But I will give unto them the law as at the first, but it shall be after the law of a carnal commandment; for I have sworn in my wrath, that they shall not enter into my presence, into my rest, in the days of their pilgrimage

Thus ancient Israel lost its opportunity to receive the ordinances of godliness to receive the knowledge of God. With the loss of the Higher Priesthood, the Aaronic Priesthood administered a preparatory gospel, or law of carnal commandments, until the coming of Christ in the meridian dispensation. There were times from Moses to Christ when the prophets held the Higher Priesthood, but it was not conferred upon others as it is today. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 181.)

JOHN THE BAPTIST

John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ, was raised up by God to make straight the way of the Lord. We are informed that he was baptized while yet in his childhood and the Priesthood was conferred upon him by an angel of the Lord. (D&C 84:28.) The New Testament says that he was called of God. (Luke 3:2.)

SONS OF MOSES

After mentioning that the Priesthood — Melchizedek and

857

NOVEMBER 1964

Aaronic — has offices as appendages (D&C 84:29-30), reference is again made to the temple to be constructed in Jackson County, Missouri. These few verses are highly interesting because they point out a service to be performed by present-day Priesthood bearers and the functioning of the temple in the New Jerusalem. It is said that the sons of Moses and the sons of Aaron shall offer an acceptable offering in that temple, and that those brethren will be filled with the glory of the Lord in that house. (Verses 31-32.)

But who are they today that have the promise of officiating in the temple when it is built in Independence, Missouri? The Lord answers in this manner:

For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies.

They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God (Verses 33-34).

These are Latter-day Saint Priesthood holders who honor and magnify their callings — in other words, those who keep the commandments and answer to the calls made upon them to function in the Priesthood.

IMPORTANCE OF PRIESTHOOD

Two important aspects of Priesthood are made known in verses 35 to 42 of Section 84. First, the acceptance of the Priesthood by the Priesthood bearer:

And also all they who receive this priesthood receive me, saith the Lord;

For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me;

And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father;

And he that receiveth my Father receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him.

And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the priesthood (Verses 35-39).

In these verses one is promised the highest blessing available to the child of God — eternal life. This is expressed in verse 38 in the most complete way possible. All that the Father hath shall be given to him who accepts the Lord through his servants. Acceptance of the Lord's servant means completely obeying the will of the Lord as given by his ancient and modern prophets. That one may understand the binding force of this promise, the revelation refers to the oath and covenant of the Priesthood.

The second important responsibility pertaining to the Priesthood is found in these words:

Therefore, all those who receive the priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved.

But whoso breaketh this covenant after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come (Verses 40-41).

Attention is directed in the foregoing words to those who possess the Priesthood. The authority to bind and seal which God gives to his faithful sons is of such importance that a covenant (agreement or contract) is made between the recipient and the Lord. In essence it is: "I will abide by the law of my Priesthood, every blessing within my

858

LESSON DEPARTMENT

power to give will be granted you, even to become as I am.

Every man who has received the Melchizedek Priesthood has received the oath and covenant of that Priesthood. This agreement pertains to the Higher Priesthood and not the Aaronic. (DHC V: 555.)

FIRST REQUIREMENT OF THE OATH AND COVENANT

From the foregoing scriptures regarding the responsibility of the Priesthood member and the Priesthood, Elder Delbert L. Stapley of the Council of the Council of the Twelve suggested the necessity of faithfulness or obedience to gospel standards. He then asked the following questions that the elder might evaluate his faithfulness: (These questions are also applicable to every member of the Church.)

1. Can a man be faithful who does not abide by the first two great commandments, to love the Lord God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind, and his neighbour as himself?

2. Can a man be faithful who is not honest and truthful in all dealings and relationships with his fellow men?

3. Can a man be faithful who does not honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy, attend the Sacrament and priesthood meetings; also worthily fulfil all other duties in keeping with his callings and obligations that day?

4. Can a man be faithful who does not plan and arrange for daily family prayer in the home?

5. Can a man be faithful who does not teach his children the true principles of the gospel of Christ and then set them a worthy example by living according to those truths?

6. Can a man be faithful who does not observe and keep the Word of Wisdom?

7. Can a man be faithful who does not pay an honest tithing and fast offering?

8. Can a man be faithful who does not obey the law of chastity and is not morally clean in his life and habits?

9. Can a man be faithful who does not, through obedience and sacrifice, prepare himself worthily for the holy temples of God where he can receive his endowments and sealings in the higher ordinances of the gospel and thus bind his family happily and eternally together in love and understanding?

10. Can a man be faithful who does not honor and obey the laws of the land? (Conference Report, April 1957, page 76)

The foregoing questions only point up some areas of responsibility. Other measures of faithfulness might also be suggested, but each one of those mentioned is highly important in keeping the oath and covenant of the Priesthood.

SECOND REQUIREMENT OF OATH AND COVENANT

In order to give further guidelines of responsibility, Elder Stapley reminded the general conference that the second requirement of the oath and covenant of the Priesthood is to magnify one's calling (D&C 84:33), and then he proceeded to ask the following questions:

1. Can a man magnify his office and calling without honoring and abiding in the priesthood faithfully and worthily as a devoted and true servant of God?

2. Can a man magnify his calling without giving spiritual and humble dignity to his office?

3. Can a man magnify his calling who refuses to accept positions and responsibilities of trust when called upon to serve by his stake president, bishop, or other constituted authority?

4. Can a man magnify his calling if he is not obedient to gospel standards

859

NOVEMBER 1964

and requirements, and if he also fails to be amenable to the counsel and direction of righteous men who are properly called and approved by the people as their authorized leaders?

5. Can a man magnify his calling who refuses to sustain by his faith, prayers, and works those whom God has called and ordained to preside over him?

6. Can a man magnify his calling who does not use his priesthood in righteousness for the blessing and benefit of his fellow men?

7. Can a man magnify his calling who does not banish all iniquity from his soul, that he may gain favor with God and thus enjoy power in the use of the priesthood to bless people?

Again, may I summarize by asking, "Can a man magnify his calling who is not willing to sacrifice and consecrate all for the building of God's kingdom in righteousness, truth, and power in the earth?" (Conference Report, April 1957, pp. 76-77).

THE PENALTY

The letter and the spirit of this revelation on the oath and covenant of the Priesthood give emphasis to the binding force of this covenant. The Lord says that he will hold inviolate the agreement as long as man honors and magnifies the Priesthood. (D&C 84:40.) The responsibility for maintaining the contract is upon man. Man is on trial, not God. The seriousness of this oath is also pointed up by the fact that he who altogether turns away from the Priesthood shall not have forgiveness. (Verse 41.) Because this expression "shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come," is associated with the penalty received by the sons of perdition (Lesson 57, July 1964), it should be known that all men who so turn away from the Priesthood may not, as a necessary result, become sons of perdition. It is possible for the faithful Priesthood bearer to become indifferent to keeping the commandments and to fail to magnify his calling, yet never to receive the light and understanding nor fall to such depths of wickedness as to become a son of perdition. It is apparent, therefore, that the loss of forgiveness entails the great punishment of being denied the Priesthood in the future life. Without the Priesthood no man may enter into the exaltation.

This lesson should point out the importance of the Priesthood to all members of the Church. No one in the Church should take lightly any responsibility assigned him by the servants of God.

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. What is meant by "the genealogy of the Priesthood," and who received this authority first on the earth?

2. Who receives the oath and covenant of the Priesthood, and what is the penalty for breaking it?

3. What does it mean to magnify one's calling in the Priesthood? Be specific.

860

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 61 — "Watch,
