[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 836 | Fiction | Colorful Felt Pictures June | F. Krambule]

Colorful
Felt Pictures

June F. Krambule

FOR making an unusual and decorative picture, Mrs. John Fishburn of Ogden, Utah, took two pieces of plyboard, one-half yard of burlap, a few feet of screendoor beading, and several small squares of felt, put them together, and the colorful result was a pair of pictures that are something to crow about. The pictures represent weathervane roosters, made for the budget price of about $1.55 and designed to accent the Fishburn's early-American multi-purpose room.

Mrs. Fishburn details the project this way: First secure two 11" by 16" (or any other desired size) pieces of plyboard and burlap. The burlap is stretched tightly across the front of the plyboard and glued securely to the back. The mitered corners may need to be tacked.

Next, select in dimensions needed for the size and number of pictures you are making, about six squares of felt found in most department and fabric stores. These should include black felt for the weathervane, red or orange for the rooster's comb, and a variety of yellow, green, and brown shades that blend together. These, of course, may be varied to suit your own decorating color scheme.

To trace the patterns directly from the design given here, would make a very small rooster. However, it is not a difficult process, using this design as a guide, to outline and make your own pattern of each separate piece, keeping in mind the proportions represented in the illustration. Each separate piece of the pattern, when outlined to your satisfaction, can then be traced on a fairly heavy paper. When each piece is numbered correctly, the patterns are ready to be transferred to the felt for the cutting process.

Pin the pattern securely on the felt and cut out the felt accordingly with very sharp scissors. Glue the felt pieces to the burlap in the order numbered. Dotted lines indicate sections of the pattern covered by pieces placed on later. Letters suggest the colors that may be used, and the numbers indicate the sequence in which the pieces of felt are glued on the burlap.

Narrow screendoor beading which may be found at almost any building supply store is carefully glued or tacked in place, two inches in from the edge, to give a framing effect.

Good luck with your roosters. Cut carefully, glue neatly, and your friends will crow about your pictures, too.

836

THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT

[ILLUSTRATION: A decorative rooster design with numbered sections and letters indicating a craft pattern]

Pattern designed and used by Mrs. John Fishburn to make colorful felt pictures for less than a dollar each. Numbers indicate order in which pieces are placed on the burlap-covered board.

Color Code: R - red, O - orange, G - gold, Gr - green, B - black, Br - brown.

837

"Little...Acts of Kindness and of Love"
Elsie C. Carroll

IN borrowing a line from Wordsworth for my title, I purposely omitted two words. He wrote "little, nameless, unremembered, acts of kindness and of love." Such acts as I am thinking of may be unremembered, and nameless to the persons who performed them, but they are long remembered, identified, and cherished by the recipient.

My life has been made richer and happier by innumerable such acts. Only today I answered my doorbell to find a pretty little girl with a box of fresh picked raspberries a neighbor had sent — berries from the few bushes in her back yard which her family could well have relished. This family knows the joy of sharing delicacies with others.

On last Valentine's day the children of a family who had moved into their new home across the street from me a short time before, and with whom I had not really become acquainted, brought me a beautiful valentine lunch — including heart-shaped sandwiches, cookies, and salad, and with one little valentine on which they (or their remarkable mother) had written: "When you need someone to do errands, call us." This was followed by their names and telephone number. That was the first of many such acts that give the true meaning to the word neighborliness.

One time when I was returning to Utah from a stay in the East with my two small children, my little daughter became sick. She needed my full attention. Her three-year-old brother wanted to run up and down the aisle and to annoy the passengers generally. I was beside myself with anxiety and embarrassment. This had not been going on long when a pretty woman came to my very apparent need. She captured my son and took him to her own seat in the other end of the car. During a long afternoon and evening she entertained him, relieving me of an embarrassing situation and keeping him happy. When we reached my destination she helped me off the train into the hands of waiting relatives. A life-long regret is that in thanking her for such a wonderful kindness, I did not learn her name or address. But I shall never forget her. She remains in my memory as a lovely angel. Hers was not a little act of kindness; it was too big to be measured.

Another act of similar dimension came as a blessing years later. I was returning to my home after my daughter's marriage, and her departure for her honeymoon. My son was away. Neither one would ever be at home again, except for visits. I had adjusted as well as a woman can to years of widowhood, but now a new adjustment faced me.

It was dusk when I drove into my garage. The house was dark, and lonely. It could never be a real home again, it seemed to me at that desolate moment. It took me some time to find courage to walk to the house. I contemplated going to the home of a relative or friend — at least for this one night. But I realized it had to be hard the next night, or the next. It was a new life I was facing, and it was up to me how I faced it.

Finally, I unlocked the door and went inside. I turned on a light and started toward my bedroom where I intended to throw myself on my bed and release the pent-up tears that were choking me. I felt that I could weep forever.

My doorbell rang. Reluctantly I answered it. There stood my friend Nellie. Before I could speak she said: "Here I am with my nightgown. I knew how hard this first night with Helen and Charlie both gone would be. Tomorrow will be a new day, and the sun will be shining. But I didn't want you to be alone tonight."

A little act of kindness and of love. No! It was a big act, and it helped more than Nellie could know. She may have forgotten it. But her act, with so many others that have blessed and brightened my life, will never be unremembered by me.

838

THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT

[PHOTOGRAPH]
