[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 867 | Lesson | Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part I Robert | K. Thomas]
[Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part I Robert K. Thomas]

LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values
As Seen Through Literature

Elder Robert K. Thomas

Lesson 5 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part I
(Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 111-280)
For Third Meeting, February 1965

Objective: To show how literature dramatizes the evil of
materialism and affirms higher values.

As we look about us how rarely does anyone seem to ignore material concerns. We must all provide for ourselves and those dependent upon us in a continuing round of practical activities. We are even warned (I Tim. 5:8) that failure to provide is a denial of the faith. We are so obviously in the world that few of us seem to need warning to give adequate attention to material things. The daily insistence of household duties alone appears sufficient to remind us that part of our preparation for a heavenly mansion may come through taking care of an earthly home. It is only when we lose the vision of heaven in viewing the earth that our need to distinguish between eternal, spiritual values and temporary, material ones seems to become critical.

No theme has had a more persistent literary history than the vanity of worldly wishes. The ancient Anglo Saxon poem "The Wanderer"—probably written early in the eighth century—stresses that "all the foundations of the earth shall fail" and that the only happy man is the one "who seeketh for mercy from his Heavenly Father." In early French literature we have a similar awareness of the fact that nothing material lasts. Francois Villon (1431-1463) laments: "Where are the snows of yesteryear?" The very persistence of this theme during many years and in many lands is depressing evidence that being of the world as well as in it is a problem for most men. The stories and poems which have been selected to support this lesson can barely suggest the variety and deception of materialistic temptation, but they do attempt to suggest part of its range.

867

In "Three Arshins of Land," for instance, Count Leo Tolstoi (1828-1910) presents a relatively simple tale of the degenerative effects of greed. The desire to possess becomes an end in itself to own more and more property that Pakhom destroys his own infects all of his attitudes. He resents those with property when he has little and scorns those without property when he has much. When poor, he is jealous and bitter, and when rich he is proud and unfeeling. The real point to note here however, is that Pakhom destroys his own ability to discriminate. He chooses a life of greed, and this makes all his attitudes and actions gross. The final irony, of course, is that all he eventually has is a tiny burial tract.

In light of the critical principles which we have been using in this course note how the author sacrifices everything in this story to his message. From the Platonic point of view, in which message is paramount, this is effective, but it has a tendency to turn a story into a sermon. We do get Tolstoi's point, yet we are probably less affected by it than we would be if it were presented in such a way that we found it easier to see ourselves and our problems in more believable terms.

The second selection, an abridged version of "The Pardoner's Tale" by Geoffrey Chaucer (1343-1400) is also clearly intent on teaching a moral lesson, but such is Chaucer's skill that we cannot fail to note how much more force he gives his whole account by having the teller of

the story demonstrate, at the conclusion of his tale, the very qualities he has been deploring in others. We are uncomfortably aware of how human this is, and we find ourselves reacting strongly. If Tolstoi shows that a materialistic focus can destroy ability to make moral distinctions, Chaucer suggests a subtler temptation. We may seem to know what is right and wrong, but be wholly blind to the very weaknesses in ourselves which we condemn in others. Preoccupation with things of this world blunts our moral sense; we can continue to say the right words long after they have ceased to have any real meaning in our own life.

If Chaucer's point is no less clear than Tolstoi's, he takes advantage of the form of his presentation to reinforce it. The general condemnation of avarice and gluttony, which seems to constitute the main theme of this story, is too conventional to be very memorable. What we will never forget, once we have read this tale, is the brisk dispatch with which the Pardoner—his words of exhortation against covetousness still echoing—begins to exploit spiritual wares.

The two poems with which we conclude this lesson were written by contemporaries of each other. Percy Bysshe Shelley (1792-1822) and William Wordsworth (1770-1850), both of the English Romantic school, felt strongly the corrosive effects of the materialism which seemed to them to be blighting the civilization of the early nineteenth century. Since their poems are short enough to

858

LESSON DEPARTMENT

be reprinted in their entirety, we can discuss them in detail.

Shelley's "Ozymandias" takes the Greek name of the Egyptian ruler, Rameses II (1292-1225 B.C.), one of the pyramid builders. The decaying statue here described was reputed to be the largest in Egypt. The text of the poem is as follows:

I met a traveler from an antique land
Who said: Two vast and trunkless legs of stone
Stand in the desert. Near them, on the sand,
Half sunk, a shattered visage lies, whose frown,
And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command,
Tell that its sculptor well those passions read
Which yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things,
The hand that mocked them and the heart that fed:
And on the pedestal these words appear:
"My name is Ozymandias, king of kings:
"Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!"
Nothing beside remains. Round the decay
Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare
The lone and level sands stretch far away.

We see immediately that this is a poem of contrasts which build to the climax of line eleven and prepare us for the ironic surprise of line twelve. (Perhaps it is worth mentioning at this time that the word "surprise" originally meant to get what you desire but do not expect). Note how effective the short, unarguable, three-word sentence of line twelve is at this point in the poem. Note also how the flowing alliteration of "boundless and bare," "lone and level" have just the right tone of unconcern to conclude the entire idea. The key word is "despair." It carries the arrogance of the king—yet effectively puts over the universal lesson: this, too, shall pass away.

To the conclusions of Tolstoi and Chaucer, Shelley adds another. Not only are the things of this world inevitably subject to decay, but the attitudes, which a this-worldly approach fosters, are similarly short-lived and unsubstantial. The fact that sand is obviously the foundation for this monument takes on added meaning in the light of the scriptural use of sand as a symbol of instability. One final note may help in reading this poem. "The hand" that mocks Ozymandias is that of the sculptor; the "heart" that fed his passions is Ozymandias' own.

In "The World Is Too Much With Us," Wordsworth gives additional insight into the problem of materialism:

The world is too much with us; late and soon,
Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers;
Little we see in nature that is ours;
We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon!
The sea that bares her bosom to the moon!
The winds that will be howling at all hours,
And are up-gathered now like sleeping flowers;
For this, for everything, we are out of tune;
It moves us not.—Great God!
I'd rather be
A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn;

869

NOVEMBER 1964

So might I, standing on this
    pleasant lea,
Have glimpses that would make
    me less forlorn;
Have sight of Proteus rising from
    the sea;
Or hear old Triton blow his
    wreathed horn.

This famous sonnet is an excellent example of sonnet form. The first eight lines propound the problem; the final six give the poet's answer. To begin with, note the kind of materialism Wordsworth is discussing. This is not the grossness of Tolstoi or Chaucer; neither is it the bloated ego of royalty. This is the materialism we all know. "Getting and spending" describes the preoccupation of most of our days precisely. The only real complaint of the first eight lines is that we are "out of tune" with nature, i.e., we simply don't take the time or make the effort to harmonize our lives with the positive force of the nature which surrounds us. The vehemence of Wordsworth's answer to what appears to be a minor problem is particularly effective. It is shocking to realize that we may have degenerated so far that our difficulty is no longer a substitution of the material for the spiritual. We may even have lost all significant relationship to the material world. A wrong focus at least acknowledges the exist-

ence of a right one, but indifference is wholly static. This poem tries to make us see that indifference may be the subtlest—and most "forlorn"—of material temptations. For mechanical activity is only a parody of life. Our daily routine may be simply deadening. We may mistake our avoiding of the obviously negative aspects of materialism for spirituality, which is to make any real understanding of the spiritual impossible.

This poem brings us full circle. We noted at the beginning of this lesson that spiritual development takes place in the material world. Wordsworth is saying that until we have a meaningful relationship with the world our religion cannot truly serve us. Only as we bring our lives into harmony with the best that this world offers, can we transcend it and make the earth a stepping-stone to heaven.

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. How can giving in to one form of materialism affect all our attitudes?
2. The Pardoner did not seem to be aware of his inconsistency. Do you think we refuse or fail to see our own weaknesses?
3. The king in Shelley's poem was overcome by pride. What is the difference between pride and self-respect?
4. To what extent is spiritual awareness dependent upon harmony in earthly concerns?

870
