[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 810 | Special Feature | "Take My Yoke Upon You" Marianne | C. Sharp]
[Address Delivered at the General. Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September. 30, 1964]

"Take My
Yoke Upon You"

Counselor Marianne C. Sharp

[Address Delivered at the General
Session of the Relief Society Annual
General Conference, September 30, 1964]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

As I was reading in Matthew recently, I was impressed by some verses which I feel sure most of us could repeat from memory:

Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.

Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek, and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.

For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.

As I read this comforting invitation I wondered, what is the yoke of the Savior for me, a Latter-day Saint woman, which we all should take upon us; and what makes the burden light?

As I thought of the yoke of the Savior, I decided that for a married woman it would, first of all, be striving for perfection as a wife and mother. No woman can find rest in her soul if she is not daily seeking to become better in these two most important responsibilities. The burdens of life are ever pressing upon us, and if we do not keep our eyes single to these two fundamental duties, our souls are

without rest, unrighteous burdens crush out the joy, and leave boredom, frustrations, and unhappiness in its place.

To be a joyful wife we must honor the Priesthood in our homes and support our husbands in righteous endeavors. We must keep our homes in order and make them havens of peace and love.

To be a joyful mother we must devote ourselves to our children; teach them to respect the Priesthood, be obedient to their fathers, and do the part of a mother in training them in light and truth.

As I considered further the yoke of the Savior for a woman, I naturally considered activities to which I have devoted my time. I pondered on the time which I have spent in Relief Society work. Is that a part of the yoke?

I quickly decided that Relief Society offers the opportunity to help a woman take upon herself the yoke of the Savior and find that his burden is light. What does Relief Society give to a woman to bring rest unto her soul?

810

"TAKE MY YOKE UPON YOU"

The answers came so fast I could hardly separate them. Swiftly pictures flowed through my mind of the teachings and training I had received in Relief Society from the time I first joined before I was married. Relief Society is used by the Lord, I decided, to give to a daughter, at the proper time, truths and practice in those truths of which she stands in need.

As wives and mothers in our homes we act as individuals in meeting our problems, seeking through prayer the solutions. When we become members of Relief Society, however, we learn and are trained in the midst of our sisters. We have a basis of comparison. For instance, we may feel our own burdens are almost heavier than we can bear. Then we become acquainted with a sister whose burdens are such that ours assume a paler hue. On the other hand, we may hear a sister complain of her burdens which, to us, seem rather paltry. And we learn a lesson — many lessons — from the associations with our sisters: the burden of one of us may seem of small moment to another, but each woman has her burden. When we are in Relief Society, no longer are we alone in our problems — we are one with the sisterhood of the Church and our outlook is broadened.

What if a Latter-day Saint woman is called to serve in the Sunday School, the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, or the Primary? As women, we answer these calls willingly and receive great blessings and joy therein, but service in no other organization gives to a woman as a woman the light and truth she can gain personally from devotion to Relief Society. This is true because Relief Society was divinely established by our Heavenly Father for his daughters.

How does Relief Society help us to take upon ourselves the yoke of the Savior?

The assistance we receive is manifold. First, we become students of the scriptures on an adult level, through lessons written especially for women. Just during the years since I came in the Presidency we have studied slowly and thoroughly the life of Christ, The Book of Mormon, and, now, the Doctrine and Covenants. As we have studied, we have searched the scriptures. As we study and discuss subjects in a spirit of prayer, enlightenment and understanding swell within us. We strive to follow the admonition of the Prophet Joseph, "When you go home, never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands, but let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforward." We are helped to decide, as mothers, whether Johnny should be given the money he asks for, and if Mary should be allowed to go to the party. All the understanding which comes to us in Relief Society becomes a part of us to help in making our own minute-by-minute decisions.

We learn to serve others and to increase our talents. Relief Society was to act upon these words, as the Prophet Joseph instructed, "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'" The service we give in Relief Society

811

NOVEMBER 1964

builds and strengthens many facets of our characters. We learn to be obedient to those over us, and learn to give unquestioned loyalty to them. Our own personal wishes are submerged. This engenders unselfishness and trains us in humility.

We learn to accept responsibility. We are often asked to undertake a task which we feel is beyond our capabilities; however, we accept the task and, as we accomplish it with the help of the Lord, the yoke becomes easier.

We learn to nurse the sick, to comfort the sorrowing, to discern the needs of our sisters. Relief Society provides a great opportunity to increase our faith, and then the further opportunity to prove our faith by our works — to step beyond our own doorsills and emulate the example of the Master who went about doing good. The Savior did not restrict his service to his own loved family members. Remember he asked, "Who is my mother? and who are my brethren?" And answered, "whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother."

Can a Latter-day Saint woman take on the yoke of Christ and wilfully ignore and deny the Re-

lief Society? The Savior says, "Learn of me for I am meek and lowly of heart." Is there a better way to learn to be meek and lowly than by serving our neighbors as directed by those in authority? Is there a better way to increase our testimonies than by studying in this divine organization whose motto is "Charity Never Faileth"?

If we do not have charity, the pure love of Christ, to motivate our thoughts and actions, we are nothing. Shutting ourselves in ivory towers alone to study and learn the scriptures is not taking the yoke of Christ upon us, nor can we love the Savior, pray for the sick and afflicted, and then turn our backs on them. He has said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments."

As we approach ever nearer the Savior while doing work such as he did, we receive rest unto our souls. As we take upon us his yoke, we find it is easy; the joy of accomplishment, the satisfaction of service, our increasing love for the Savior do make his burden light.

May we all live to know the truth of his promise "For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light," I pray.
