[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 804 | Special Feature | Home, the Child Training Center Belle | S. Spafford]
[Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual * General Conference, September 30, 1964]
[our L. D. S.]

HOME
The Child
Training Center

President Belle S. Spafford

[Address Delivered at the General
Session of the Relief Society Annual
General Conference, September 30, 1964]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

"THE wisdom of the ages" is a phrase frequently used, implying that the experiences of eons of time have proved certain statements to be true and certain courses of action to be judicious, prudent, sensible, and good. In the history of the world, perhaps none other, save the Master himself, is so well known for his wisdom as is King Solomon who reigned over ancient Israel. Scripture records that in Gibeon the Lord appeared in a dream by night to Solomon who had succeeded King David as ruler of Israel, and God said, "Ask what I shall give thee?" and Solomon replied:

Give thy servant therefore an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad. . . . And the speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing and hast not asked for thyself long life; neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies; but has asked for thyself under-

standing to discern judgment; Behold I have done according to thy word: lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart; so that there hath been none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee (I Kings 3:5, 9-12).

The importance of an understanding heart for those who would govern others, and the wise sayings of King Solomon constitute an important part of the wisdom of the ages. Among the wisdom words of Solomon worthy of contemplation by mothers of the Church today are these: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6).

Today social life has become complex and social ills pronounced. Mothers sometimes wonder if indeed it is possible to rear the child so as to assure the righteousness of the man of maturity.

Ever before us are unsettling, even frightening reports and ac-

804

HOME—THE CHILD TRAINING CENTER

counts of temptations and existing evils which beset the paths of boys and girls. All too many children are being caught in the web of destruction.

In view of existing conditions, social studies and the development of social welfare programs are rapidly increasing, with emphasis being placed on remedial measures and social case work techniques to deal effectively with problems. The remedial measures must be administered, in large measure, by social welfare institutions. Valuable as these may be in the treatment process when a child has fallen by the wayside, is not the better approach the preventive measure through early training in the home by wise and righteous parents?

Church leaders have long taught us that the character of our homes and the teaching we give our little ones play a determining role in the character and behavior of the adolescent child and, later, in the life of the child grown to manhood or womanhood. From time to time we hear an echo of this from those whom the world regards as authorities. In the Deseret News of August 19 there appeared a report of a paper presented at the First International Congress of Social Psychiatry in which Dr. Eleanor Glueck of Harvard Law School, an eminent criminologist, said the mother plays a determining role in whether a child is to become a delinquent and later, perhaps, a criminal. Dr. Glueck declared the three vital factors which determine the mother's influence on the child are the amount of supervision given, the amount of discipline she is able to infuse, and the amount of cohesion she is able to bring into existence in the family.

THE Church gives us the broader view, the greater concept of our responsibility to our children. It gives to us first an understanding of what was meant by Solomon when he said, "Train up a child in the way he should go." The "way he should go" is made unmistakably clear. The Church further gives us specific counsel as to how to guide him along the way through our day-by-day home teachings; then it undergirds us with marvelous Priesthood quorum and auxiliary programs.

While, through unfortunate circumstances or perhaps unjudicious action on the part of parents, a child may fail to receive the firm and wise direction required to avoid the pitfalls of life, I believe our Church has a vast majority of competent, successful mothers, and our young people, generally speaking, merit our confidence. At times, even one who strays from sound parental teachings returns in later life repentant because of those teachings. Only recently a son who had been carefully taught by righteous parents, now eightyfour years of age, told me a fascinating story of his repentance. Said he, "During the days of my recalcitrant youth and young manhood, my parental teachings remained with me as a restraining influence and held the line to some extent. I could never entirely rid myself of them, and, finally, they led me back to right living and happiness."

805

NOVEMBER 1964

It seems human nature to talk much of the one who goes astray and call little attention to the countless numbers who follow the path of right.

President McKay referred to this and, at the same time, expressed his confidence in the youth of the Church as follows:

So while we solicitously call attention to the tragedies in the stream of human life, let us not be unmindful of the much greater group who move steadily and successfully along, avoiding the sandbars and rapids of sinful indulgence and spiritual decay, whose noble lives confirm and increase confidence in the growing generation. As we seek the lost sheep, let us be appreciative of the "ninety and nine" that are safe in the fold. (Motherhood — A Partnership With God, compiled by Harold Lundstrom, pp. 4-5).

I recall attending a dinner not long ago with a group of non-Latter-day Saint women who were active in civic and social welfare programs. Considerable concern over the growing antisocial behavior of youth was expressed. The group seemed in general agreement as to the need to strengthen the American home as a means of improving conditions. At length a woman seated next to me directed two pertinent questions to me. She inquired, (1) "Do you have any juvenile delinquency among the youth of your Church, and if so, do you have any statistics comparing the percentage of delinquents among you with the national percentage?" (2) "Also, you have extremely high standards of home and family life, as well as a rigid set of behavior disciplines. How effective are these as controls in the lives of your young people?"

I had no figures I could give her. I could not in honesty say we had no delinquency, but I felt confident in saying our standards and teachings brought forth good fruit. Without hesitancy I said I felt they produced an abundant harvest of upright, law-abiding men and women.

I was mindful of the more than 11,000 young missionaries now serving the Lord in the mission field; I thought of the tens of thousands in years past who have done so. There came to my mind an impressive sight I had just witnessed of thousands of young men and women crowding into the Tabernacle for the Mutual Improvement Association conference — chosen to be leaders because of their worthiness in this marvelous youth program. I thought of the many young men who are in bishoprics and stake presidencies; I thought of one young man, the excellence of whose home training I knew so well, recently being chosen of the Lord through his prophet to be an apostle — a witness for Christ to the world. I thought of others similarly taught and similarly called who are today a power for righteousness among the nations of the earth. I thought of the endless number of intelligent young women of faith and testimony presiding over Relief Societies throughout the Church. A visit to a campus branch Relief Society is a heartening and inspiring experience.

Yes, I thought of a conversation I had had in one of the large eastern cities with a little twelve-year-old scout who had been carefully trained by a righteous and beautiful mother who had

806

HOME—THE CHILD TRAINING CENTER

just passed away. The boy had been on a week-end Scout outing. With face aglow, he told me the group to which he belonged had been singled out by a national leader for special recognition and privilege. The national leader had said "How is it that so many fine boys belong to this one group?" With certainty that he knew the answer, the child had said to me, "We were all Mormons."

A seemingly endless chain of evidence of the fruitfulness of Church teachings, inculcated in children, in large measure, by righteous parents in the home passed in review before my mind. I felt the effectiveness of our standards and discipline is best measured as directed by the Lord and recorded by St. Matthew: "Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know them" (Matthew: 7:20).

WHAT I like to regard as a great body of scripture—words spoken by the Lord and by our latter-day prophets through inspiration of the Lord and recorded for our study and use—fortify us in our struggle to train our children in the way they should go. May I present a brief sampling of these:

The admonition of the Lord recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants 68:25-28, is sufficiently familiar to most of us that I feel it is not necessary to read it. For those unfamiliar with this scripture, I commend it to you as good reading.

Latter-day Saints have always been taught that marriage was divinely instituted and that temple marriage is the sure foundation upon which to build a good

and an eternal home. The Prophet Joseph Smith declared that "marriage was an institution of heaven, instituted in the garden of Eden; that it was necessary that it should be solemnized by the authority of the everlasting Priesthood" (Joseph Smith's Teachings, 1912 ed., page 103).

President McKay made this fervent plea:

Oh may our youth throughout the land realize that they have within their grasp the possibility of that form of marriage which will contribute more to their happiness in this world and their eternal union and happiness in the world to come than can be obtained anywhere else in the world (Motherhood — A Partnership With God, page 119).

President J. Reuben Clark reminded us of the fundamental and eternal relationships of the family as follows:

The family, looked at broadly, is as nearly basic to the principles and plan of the Restored Gospel as any principle of which I know. We have a Heavenly Father and Mother, the eternal parents of the spirits of us who are here. And those spirits were created that they might come to this earth and receive mortal tabernacles so that in the due time of the Lord we may lay away the mortal tabernacle; then in due time we shall resume it, and become the perfect soul, the body and the spirit re-united.

The family relationship is fundamental, because without it we cannot reach out to the destiny which our Heavenly Father has provided for us" (Ibid. pp. 10-11).

President Joseph Fielding Smith sets forth our duty in rearing our children:

It is the duty of parents to teach children the saving principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ so that they

807

NOVEMBER 1964

will know why they are to be baptized and that they may be impressed in their hearts with a desire to continue to keep the commandments of God after they are baptized, that they may come back into his presence (Ibid., page 148).

Discipline is embodied in the gospel of Christ. It is fundamental to good child rearing, but must be wisely exercised.

Brigham Young early taught Latter-day Saint parents wise principles of child government: "Bring up your children in love," said President Young, "... study their dispositions and their temperaments, and deal with them accordingly, never allowing yourself to correct them in the heat of passion" (Ibid., page 23).

Elder Orson Pratt enlarges, as follows, upon this counsel, which unfortunately is still needed among us in some instances:

Do not correct your children in anger. Be deliberate and calm in your counsels and reproofs, but at the same time use earnestness and decision.... Do not find fault with every trifling error you may see, for this will discourage your family, and they will begin to think it is impossible to please you; and after a while they will become indifferent as to whether they please you or not.... Do not be so stern in your family government as to render yourself an object of fear and dread (Ibid., page 29).

Elder Harold B. Lee emphasizes the need for the spiritual touch: "The maintenance of spiritual contacts, the exercise of family prayers, the constant attention to Church duties, have all been some of the things that have helped these [our L.D.S.] homes to be successful" (Ibid., page 159).

The Church has always taught us the importance of learning, and since pioneer days has provided schools. Parents have been urged to encourage their children to seek education. This seems particularly important in today's competitive world.

President John Taylor spoke of the need to educate our children, to afford them opportunities for instruction and learning, as follows:

We do not want a posterity to grow up that will be ignorant... but one that will be intelligent and wise, possessing literary and scientific attainments, and a knowledge of everything that is good, praiseworthy, intellectual and beneficial to the world... (Ibid., page 26).

It is noteworthy that today, when individual liberty is threatened in so many ways, President McKay places upon the home responsibility for teaching this divine principle. Says President McKay:

The home is the best place in the world to teach the highest ideal in the social and political life of man; namely, perfect liberty of action so long as you do not trespass upon the rights and privileges of another (Ibid., page 6).

A host of our leaders have given the same counsel as to the most effective means of teaching our children. Elder Howard W. Hunter puts it in these words: "We should be good examples to our children, for the greatest teaching is done by way of example... This is the great challenge of parenthood" (Ibid., page 51).

Latter-day Saints have often referred to themselves as a peculiar people, accepting the definition of peculiar not as queer

808

HOME—THE CHILD TRAINING CENTER

but as distinctive. Elder Richard L. Evans declared:

The word peculiar is not peculiar to us; it is peculiar to scripture. It is a word by which the Lord describes a generation that he will have, peculiar in purity, in honor, in righteousness as indicated in both Old and New Testament texts (Ibid., page 45).

In our homemaking and child rearing, then, as in other things, we must be a peculiar people. In a day when views and patterns with regard to homemaking and the role of woman are marked by change from that which has been traditional, we do not follow that which is heralded as modern and progressive and which is popularly acclaimed as being new and exciting, only save as it squares with the teachings of the Church. It is true that in today's world it requires eternal vigilance to keep children in the path of virtue and truth. But we may take comfort in the fact that this is not only possible but a general accomplishment among Latter-day Saints who adhere to the

teachings of the Church, as is attested by the thousands of fine boys and girls among us.

If our Relief Society mothers, I am particularly grateful for the lives of our young mothers, many of whom have a number of young children. Their courage, their love of truth, their desire to know and to follow counsel, their faithful Church attendance bid well for the next generation. It is an inspiration to see them gather for their Relief Society meetings, with their little ones clustered about them seeking to learn the way they should go.

May the Lord ever bless our mothers with understanding hearts and the wisdom to train their children in the way they should go so that when they are old they will not depart from it. May their fears with regard to rearing their children in today's changing and troubled world be supplanted by the peace of heart which comes through adherence to Church counsel, I sincerely pray.
