[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 840 | Fiction | The Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 2 Mabel Harmer | Generai Features]

The
Turn
of the Wheel

Mabel Harmer                    CHAPTER 2

Synopsis: Elsa Breinholt meets Clay Knowlton, an American sergeant stationed with the United States Army in Heidelberg. He is a member of the English-speaking branch of the Church. In her own branch a recently arrived member is Karl Ernst, who accompanies her and her mother and sister home to Sunday dinner.

ON the following Sunday Elsa asked Brother Meyer if she might attend Sunday School upstairs. "I am anxious to have every opportunity to improve my English," she said. "Maria will play the organ in here."

"For today — if you wish," he agreed. "But we must not lose you altogether. We need everyone we have and more."

"Yes, I know. And I promise that it will be only for this once. At least, it will not be very often."

Brother Meyer answered her beguiling smile with a fatherly pat on the shoulder and turned to greet other members of the branch.

As Elsa climbed the stairway she asked herself, "Now, am I entirely honest in persuading myself that I am coming up here to better my English?"

Not quite able to answer, she took a seat at the rear and looked around. There were some few whom she knew but many who were strangers. The military personnel of the United States American base, with their families, made up

840

THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

the greater part of the congregation. There were also a few tourists and some missionaries, touring Europe on their way home from various countries. She did not see Clay Knowlton and had to acknowledge a slight pang of disappointment. She also had to admit that, if the improving of her English had been her primary objective in coming up, it had not been her entire aim.

She was both pleased and surprised, therefore, to meet him on the steps outside, after the service.

"So, there you are!" he exclaimed. "Here I come to your Sunday School especially to meet you — and you are not there."

Elsa's cheeks colored. She might have convinced herself that she had gone upstairs with no ulterior motives, but he would most certainly believe otherwise. She was rather glad that Maria joined them at that moment and asked with outrageous candor, "Did your friend sleep in again today?"

"No. He has gone to Holland for the week end. He claimed that he had to see the acres of tulips in bloom, whether I was left to walk or not. I did manage to get a ride with one of the other families, however. One of these days I shall have my own car. Then you and I will take a long ride wherever you wish."

"Good! I hope that it will be very soon."

"No more than do I," agreed Clay heartily. "I see that my people are ready to leave now, so I'll have to hurry. See you all later."

HE left, and Karl, who had been talking with Brother Meyer, but constantly casting glances their way, came over to join them. Sister Breinholt, who had been visiting with other friends, also hurried over. "You will come home with us to dinner, I hope?" she said to Karl.

"Thank you very much. I would surely like to," he replied, "but I have been invited home with the Meyers today."

"That is too bad." Her face showed genuine disappointment. "Some other time, then. And how is the work coming?"

"Fine, thank you," Karl replied. "I am going to be kept very busy . . . which is just what I wanted."

The three said their goodbyes and left for home. "I like Brother Knowlton the best," remarked Maria as they walked along. "He looks just like a movie actor. Maybe his hair could be a bit more red, or gold, or something. But his eyes are nice and blue and he is so tall."

"The best of whom?" asked Elsa, pretending innocence.

"The best of your two young men, of course. Karl is nice, too, and he has a gorgeous smile. But Clay is the most fun. Don't you think so?"

"I hadn't even thought about it," answered Elsa coolly. "And they are certainly not my young men."

"Then you had best start thinking," reproved her mother. "A fine young man like Karl will not be left unnoticed for very long. There are too many single girls around."

"But none so beautiful as Elsa," said Maria complacently.

"If he prefers them, that is up to him," smiled Elsa, putting her

841

NOVEMBER 1964

arm around her younger sister's shoulders.

A few days later, as she was preparing to leave the shop, she was surprised — and pleased — to have Clay drop in again. "I want one of those cute little Hummels," he said. "It's my sister's birthday. You make the choice. I'm sure that you can do it much better than I."

"Thank you. This one is a great favorite," and she held up the figurine of the two children under an umbrella.

"That's fine — for a starter. I'm going to send as many as I can, one at a time. Jean is fourteen and something of a doll herself." He walked around the shop, looking at different items. Holding up a small clock, he said, "I understand that next Monday is a holiday around here, Easter Monday."

"Yes." Elsa took the clock and wound it up so that the cuckoo would perform.

"Then, how about going on a boat trip up the river with me? I am told there are some lovely medieval towns where one can stop for lunch, and that the whole trip is very beautiful."

Elsa hesitated only a moment. There was no really good reason why she shouldn't go. It had been a long time since she had enjoyed a treat like this, and it would be an almost perfect way to spend the holiday. "All right," she nodded. "Shall we leave early? Then we could go as far as Hirschorn and have plenty of time to visit the castle, as well as having our lunch."

"It sounds great," agreed Clay.

"I'll call for you about ten. I have my own hack now."

"Hack?" repeated Elsa, puzzled.

"Car. Automobile. One of the fellows who was leaving to go back to the States sold me his."

When she arrived home Elsa told her plans to her mother with some diffidence. While Sister Breinholt was not enthusiastic about the outing, neither did she disapprove and even offered to pack a lunch.

"Thank you, no," Elsa replied. "We'll stop for lunch either at Hirschorn or Eberbach. That's part of the fun of going."

IT was a beautiful, bright day and so many people were taking advantage of the holiday that every chair on the deck of the pleasure boat was filled. All along the green, sloping banks of the river were families with their blankets spread on the grass and their heavy food hampers close by. Elsa thought that she had never seen such a peaceful, lovely scene.

As they entered the first lock, and the boat slowly rose, Clay said, "I've never been on a river like this before. Out West our streams seem to rush down as if they were in a hurry to get somewhere."

"Is everything in America in such a hurry?" she asked.

"Oh, no. As a matter of fact, I doubt if we work nearly as hard as you do. You should come over and see."

"I am going to." She spoke as if it were quite taken for granted.

"Good! That's a fine idea. Do you plan to go right away?"

"No. I wish that I could. But

842

THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

I have no means to go now. However, I am saving my money, and it will not take too much longer. Then, of course, I must have a sponsor."

"That will be easy." Clay made it sound as if it were a sponsor for an outdoor picnic. "Anyway, I imagine it will. My folks would be glad to sponsor you. I'll write at once. I suppose you don't happen to have any friends or relatives over there?"

"Relatives, yes — but not in Utah. That is one reason I am so anxious to go. My grandfather went many years ago when he first joined the Church. Two uncles went also. They have farms in Idaho and have done very well. Their children have had fine educations, and all are prominent in their communities. The grandparents are dead now. My own father was the only one in the family who did not go. He died in the war. I feel very deeply now that I should go — and work to bring over Mother and Maria when I can."

"Good," Clay nodded his approval. "And do they also feel this way?"

"Mother, no. She is quite willing to stay here. She loves Heidelberg. She loves Germany. Especially now that there is work for everyone. Maria is like me. She also has the wanderlust. And, since there are only the three of us, Mother would go if we did."

They settled back in their deck chairs to watch the passing scenery as the boat moved slowly up the river. "This is like something out of a storybook," Clay remarked, "to be floating past medieval towns and ancient castles with a golden-haired princess."

"Who tomorrow will turn back into a shopgirl," smiled Elsa.

"No, that is merely a disguise. She will still be the princess, merely waiting for her knight to come and claim her."

Elsa, with little imagination, could almost believe it was true — especially when she looked up at the old castle on the top of the hill. Ordinary mortals could not possibly have belonged in such a romantic setting.

THEY decided to stop at Hirschorn and perhaps take a later boat on to Eberbach, or save that trip for another day.

As they walked ashore Clay remarked, "This place looks so interesting that we may decide not to go back at all. We may just decide to move into the castle and take over. Perhaps you are one of the descendants, and the castle really belongs to you anyway."

"If we do move in, we'll be awfully lonely," she replied. "The last of the Hirschorn family died out nearly 300 years ago. At least, the last son died. There was a feud between the members of the Hirschorn family and the lords of Handschusheim. Both families were fearful that their lines would die out and hoped for the birth of sons. The last two fought a duel in Heidelberg, and that was the end of their families — at least as far as males were concerned."

"That may be. But I still think that you must have a valid claim. Shall we go up and see if Elsa is carved on one of the great wooden doors? And I rather think

843

NOVEMBER 1964

there will be a great key hanging by the side with a notice that reads, For Elsa."

"Then let us go by all means, but —" as she turned towards the shops — "after lunch, I doubt if we will find a table set in the banquet room labeled For Elsa."

They walked through the old town with its quaint, half-timbered houses, until they found a cafe with an outdoor eating space in a garden. The food was both substantial and savory but, with their healthy young appetites, they would have enjoyed plain boiled beef and cabbage.

Afterward, they sat in the shade and talked, forgetting that there was a key on the castle door waiting for Elsa, until the proprietor reminded them by taking the cloth from the table and shaking it vigorously, almost in their faces.

They were too happy to mind this slight discourtesy and went away, climbing the hill towards the castle. They went as far as the ramparts, only vestiges of which now remained. "I think perhaps that we should turn back," said Elsa. "I'm not sure what time we can get a boat. And we should reach home before dark."

"Then you will never know if the key still waits for the princess," said Clay, shading his eyes and looking upward, as if he might determine even from that distance. "On the other hand, it will give us a wonderful excuse to come again."

"Yes. And if the key has hung there for 300 years, it will stay for a few more weeks — or even years," Elsa smiled.

THEY walked back down the hill and soon afterwards caught a boat. There were some students aboard, one with an accordion, and all with vigorous voices. Many of those aboard, including Elsa, joined in the songs. Clay sang along in English, if he happened to know the song. When they came forth with "Du, du liebst mir im Herzen," he was able to join in with his own version of German. "Our glee club sang that in school," he explained. "Only I didn't appreciate it at the time."

The sun had set behind the western hills by the time they arrived back in Heidelberg. The last golden rays lit up the towers of the great castle on the hill and the Old Bridge.

"I could sure fall in love with this town," said Clay, as the boat drew up to the landing dock. "It's no wonder you read so much romantic stuff about it — like the Student Prince, for instance. Do you suppose that the girl Kathy married someone here, after the prince was shipped out, and that she was one of your ancestors?"

"No," Elsa replied gravely. "I'm a princess of the House of Hirschorn — remember?"

"Sure." Clay took her arm to guide her up the steps. "But that was earlier. When the fortunes fell, your great-grandmother came here and was a waitress at the inn. Are you really serious about going to America?"

"Really. I am quite serious."

"Okay. We'll get going on it. Since you speak English so well there should be no trouble in getting work."

As he left her at the house,

844

THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

he said, "Auf wiedersehen — and thanks for one of the loveliest days in all my life."

"And mine," she replied. "Auf wiedersehen."

She ran up the steps, and when she entered the house was surprised to see Karl sitting at the supper table with her mother and Maria.

"Hello," she said, slipping off her sweater and joining them at the table. "Aren't you eating awfully late?"

"Yes," agreed her mother. "We have been working as long as the light lasted. Karl has been helping us to clean up the garden and put in some tomato plants. He has been working here all day." Her tone implied "While you have been gallivanting off up the river."

"How good of you," said Elsa smiling. "You must come and help us eat all the tomatoes. If they grow, that is," she added mischievously.

"They will grow," Karl answered emphatically. "That I promise. They must grow if I am to help you eat them. I will watch over them like a fond parent."

KARL left soon after they were through eating, saying that he would look in after his plants very often.

No sooner was he out of earshot than Sister Breinholt said, with a deep sigh of satisfaction, "My, but that is a fine young man!"

"And handsome," added Maria. "Of course, he isn't quite so tall as Clay, but he has beautiful hair — so thick and almost black. And he has a wonderful smile."

As her mother looked to her for confirmation, Elsa agreed heartily. "Yes, he is indeed. I hope that he does well in his work here. And he will surely be a great help in the branch."

"All day he worked in the garden," said Sister Breinholt, nodding vigorously. "And what do you think! He has promised to build us a small greenhouse. Then we can have vegetables and fruits early in the season. He thinks that he can do it for about two hundred marks. That would mean only a little more than fifteen dollars from each one of us."

Elsa hated to throw a damper on her enthusiasm, but she knew that this was the time. She drew a deep breath and said, "I'm sorry, Mother, but I cannot help. I am going to save as much as I can. In the fall I may have a chance to go to America."

"Go to America!" exclaimed her mother, as if such adventures were completely unknown. "Why in the world would you want to do that?"

Elsa sighed. They had been over this ground many times before. But before it had been only a dream. Now it could easily become a reality.

"You know why I want to go. Because there is opportunity there for young people. Our grandfather left everything here to go over and help build up the Church and the State. His sons and grandsons have reaped all the benefits so far. I would like to share in it, too. I think that he would like to have me share in it."

"But you have so much here," her mother went on incredulous-

845

NOVEMBER 1964

ly, "a good job — nice friends — a good home."

"Working in a shop is not such a wonderful job. And it will never be any better. I have no other prospects."

"But perhaps you will get married," her mother persisted. "So pretty a girl as you is bound to get married. So far there have not been many young men in the branch. But now there is Karl..."

"Mother!" Elsa interrupted. "You haven't the slightest notion that Karl may be interested in me. Perhaps he has a girl back home who is waiting for him to send for her."

That was a possibility that Sister Breinholt had not considered. She was taken back and speechless for a moment only. "No. I can tell from the way he looks at you. Besides, he would not dig in the garden all day for an old woman like me." That gave her another idea. With an infinitely sad look, she asked, "Would you leave your mother now that I am growing old?"

Elsa laughed and went over to give her a light kiss. "You are not old at all, Mother, and you know it. Anyway, you and Maria may decide that you want to come to America, too."

"Indeed we might," agreed Maria. "And I'll pay for your share on the greenhouse. Who knows — I may get your share of interest in the young men who have been wearing our path thin."

Elsa put her arms around her sister's shoulders. "I am willing to give you any shares that are mine to give," she said. "You already have my old job. You are more than welcome to all else."

(To be continued)
