[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 815 | Special Feature | Report and Official Instructions Belle | S. Spafford]

Report and Official Instructions

President Belle S. Spafford

[Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD DELIVERING REPORT

Seated back of President Spafford, left to right: Sara I. Tanner, wife of President N. Eldon Tanner; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; Counselor Louise W. Madsen; President Joseph Fielding Smith, Adviser to Relief Society; Jessie E. Smith, wife of President Smith; Ida J. Romney, wife of Elder Romney; Elder Marion G. Romney, Adviser to Relief Society.

A regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the General Relief Society Conference is a report of the status of the organization as revealed in the annual report for the previous year, together with new official instructions and a few suggestions from the General Board relative to the conduct of the work of the Society. Figures for 1963 show growth of the organization in both the stakes and missions, and accomplishments reflect good leadership on the part of Relief Society presidents and other officers.

ORGANIZATIONS

At the close of 1963, there was a total of 389 stake Relief Societies, an increase of thirty-eight over 1962. There was a total of seventy-four mission Relief Societies, an increase of five over the previous year. There were eight new mission district Relief Societies created, making a total of 362.

815

NOVEMBER 1964

Since January 1964, eleven new stakes have been created and two new missions, making a present total of 400 stakes and seventy-six missions, which for the most part, are represented here today.

At the close of 1963 there was a total of 6,353 ward and branch Relief Societies, an increase of 332.

MEMBERSHIP

At the close of 1963 there was an enrollment of 262,002 women, an increase of 13,836 — of whom approximately 3,000 were non-Latter-day Saints. It is recognized that this substantial membership increase has been the result of intensive effort, wisely directed by Relief Society presidents. Relief Society membership is so vital to Latter-day Saint women that presidents are urged to continue to be aware of the importance of enlisting as members all Latter-day Saint women within the respective wards, and of bringing into activity the sisters who, for one reason or another, have become inactive.

Women, generally speaking, are anxious to contribute their talents and skills to worthwhile programs, if they feel they are genuinely needed. Such contributions from nonmembers or inactive sisters should be invited. They often result in women becoming active members. The work meeting, the Singing Mothers choruses, bazaars, social activities offer excellent opportunities for such contributions. The compassionate services oftimes require sisters with special skills and aptitudes. Nonmember or inactive sisters may be enlisted for these services. Two-session Relief Societies, for which instructions are available at the General Board offices, have been found helpful in some wards in increasing membership, particularly where there are a number of working women.

Well-conducted nurseries make possible the enrollment and attendance of mothers with young children who otherwise might feel they could not affiliate with Relief Society. As an aid to Relief Society in conducting good nursery programs, the General Board now has available for purchase at the General Board Office a nursery kit which includes a booklet entitled "Our Relief Society Nursery — Book II," and also a book and cut-outs for a one-year-program unit entitled "Living in Jesus' Day." The cost of the kit is $2.25.

The Home Teaching Program of the Church provides a valuable new avenue for enlisting women as active members of Relief Society. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents acquaint themselves through their bishops with procedures in making use of this resource.

ATTENDANCE

Attendance increases are gratifying. During 1963 there was in excess of 7,000 more women present at the regular weekly meetings than during the previous year.

EDUCATION

Figures show that last year 22,182 class leaders brought spiritual and intellectual development to the Society's 262,002 members. Courses of study were

816

REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

well received and met the interests and needs of the sisters.

The theology course for 1964-65 is a continuation of the study of the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with Section 76 through 87. The Doctrine and Covenants represents the revelations of the Lord to us in this dispensation, and the sisters have a responsibility to themselves and their families to be familiar with this volume of scripture.

The visiting teacher messages, "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," from the sections to be studied in theology, present, emphasize, and illustrate specific character and personality traits necessary in the conduct of a Latter-day Saint life.

The literature course for 1964-65 is entitled, "The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature." The Relief Society General Board has provided for use in the literature course, for the two years ahead, a textbook entitled "Out of the Best Books," compiled and edited by Dr. Bruce B. Clark, currently Chairman of the Department of English at Brigham Young University, with a chapter written by Robert K. Thomas, a fellow English teacher with Dr. Clark.

The textbook may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company at the nominal price of $2.95 per copy. Remittance must accompany order. As you know, each Society is authorized to purchase from its funds a copy of the textbook for the use of the class leader. The General Board, however, suggests the desirability of class members as well as class leaders owning their own copies

of this text. Not only will this make the lesson discussion more interesting and beneficial, but the book will prove a valuable addition to the home library.

The social science course, "Divine Law and Church Government" is concluded during the forthcoming season.

The following interesting comment on the course "Divine Law and Church Government" was recently made to me by the president of an overseas stake: "A number of problems formerly encountered with officers who were new in the Church seem to have cleared away as we have studied the lessons on Church Government."

NEW COORDINATED COURSE OF STUDY

A special announcement relative to a new series of lessons designed to help mothers support their husbands in teaching the gospel in the home, will entail some modification in plans for the work meeting discussions for 1964-65, as well as modifications in a few procedures presently being followed. It is the desire of Church leaders to make a concentrated effort to strengthen parents in teaching the gospel in the homes. In harmony with recommendations from the Church Correlation Committee, a series of twelve lessons for use in Relief Society, beginning in January 1965, have been prepared to coordinate with a series of lessons to be used by the Melchizedek Priesthood. In order to accommodate this course, the following procedures will be followed:
(1) Work meeting discussions for

817

NOVEMBER 1964

October, November, December 1964, will be presented as announced in the June Magazine. The last five of this series of discussions will be reserved for use later. (2) In lieu of these five discussions, planned for January through May 1965, the new coordinated lessons will be taught in the work meeting, the first of which will be published in the November Magazine. The comprehensiveness of these new lessons makes it seem advisable to allow thirty minutes for their presentation in the work meeting rather than the twenty minutes recommended for the present discussions; (3) Beginning in October 1965, the new coordinated lessons will become the social science course and will be presented by the social science class leader October through May, at the regular social science meeting. During the summer months, they will be presented by the social science class leader in the summer work meeting, in a thirty minute period. As you know, no lesson is planned for the fourth week in December. It will be necessary, therefore, to reverse the order of the social science and literature meetings beginning October 1965, in order to accommodate the twelve lessons planned for the coordinated social science course. Only seven lessons will be planned for literature for the 1965-66 year.

The new coordinated lessons will be under the direction of the education counselor. It is recommended that the sisters who teach the coordinated lessons in the work meeting meet in the social science department at the

leadership meeting January through April 1965, and that a portion of the time be used to assist these class leaders. In other words, the stake social science class leader will assist ward class leaders in both the course on Divine Law and Church Government and on the new coordinated lessons.

LESSONS FOR INDIAN RELIEF SOCIETIES

In order to be more helpful to the sisters of the Indian Relief Societies, a lesson manual for the use of these Societies is being issued by the General Board and is available at the General Board office, price $1.25 per copy. The manual contains three sets of lessons as follows:

Theology — eight lessons from The Book of Mormon
Literature — eight lessons on Latter-day Saint Church History
Social Science — seven lessons on The Essentials for Happy Family Living

A set of fourteen pictures; a map for use in the Church history course; and a chart dealing with The Book of Mormon plates suitable to augment the Indian lessons, cost $2.75 plus postage, are available at the Deseret Book Company. Stakes and missions having Indian Relief Societies are urged to encourage their use of these lessons. They should purchase the manual and the visual aids and make regular use of these materials. Some of the Indian sisters may desire to purchase the manual for themselves. A sufficient number has been prepared to allow for this. Indian Relief Societies will use the new coordinated lessons be-

818

REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

ginning in 1965, following the plan as outlined above.

NO HANDWORK DURING LESSON PRESENTATIONS

A question which has persisted through the years is as follows: May the members do handwork during the presentation of the lessons? The General Board in no way alters the position taken on this matter as early as 1940, which is as follows: The sisters should not engage in sewing or any type of handwork in any Relief Society meeting except the work meeting, which is primarily for these activities. To engage in handwork during the presentation of a lesson divides the attention of the class member; it is not conducive to her active participation in the lesson, since she is less inclined to raise her hand, set aside her handwork, and stand to make her contribution. It is often distracting to a class leader or neighboring class member and carries with it an element of discourtesy.

WORK MEETING

The work meeting, second to the theology meeting in attendance, was unusually successful in terms of interesting women in Relief Society, and in training them in the homemaking arts and skills. The sisters completed a total of 1,054,894 articles. Of this number, 687,091 were sewed articles, including quilts, clothing, and household furnishings; and 367,803 were handicraft articles. New and better methods of home management and better methods of performing

homemaking tasks were learned. The ideals of homemaking embodied in Latter-day Saint teachings were discussed. It is felt that this meeting is highly productive in helping the sisters to maintain homes in keeping with Latter-day Saint standards of order, cleanliness, thrift, and spiritual strength.

It is noted that there is marked improvement in the work meetings where there is planning in advance for the twelve monthly meetings; however, appropriate activities for summer meetings still need consideration in some instances. Activities should be suited to the membership as a whole; financial costs, either to the organization or to the individual members, should be carefully weighed, and programs should be in harmony with the general purposes and character of the work meeting as outlined by the General Board. (The new coordinated lessons will require that at least a portion of the time be a formal meeting.)

As an aid to work meeting leaders, the General Board is issuing a new booklet entitled, "Work Four Seasons to Fill the Measure of the Year." A limited supply is now ready for purchase at the library counter on the second floor of the Relief Society Building at a cost of $1.25 per copy. It will be advantageous for work meeting leaders planning to attend the work meeting department of this conference to have this booklet in their hands during the meeting. We are sorry that the cost of issuing this booklet, as well as the nursery booklet and kit, do not permit us to distribute a free copy of

819

NOVEMBER 1964

either of these booklets to each stake and mission. Following this conference, a larger supply of the work meeting booklet will be ready, thus making it available for purchase through the stake or mission for ward and branch work meeting leaders.

Requests have recently reached the General Board for directions on how best to handle money for work meeting supplies. Experience has taught us that a careful estimate of costs of materials and supplies for approved work meeting activities should be made. A check signed by the secretary-treasurer and the president should be issued to the person designated by the president to make the purchases. When purchases are made, a listing of the purchases, together with the sales slips and any unused money should be turned over to the secretary-treasurer who will make the proper entries in the record book. Generally speaking, the General Board discourages charge accounts. A few Relief Societies have inquired as to whether the General Board approves setting up a petty cash fund for the purchase of small items as needed, such as thread, scissors, etc. This is also discouraged since a precise accounting of expenditures of small amounts of Relief Society money is as mandatory as is the accounting of expenditures of larger sums, and it is often difficult to keep track of small amounts. Also, careful advance planning takes into account all such needs, and purchases are made along with other materials, supplies, and equipment.

We call your attention to the Mormon Handicraft Work Meet-

820

ing Supplies Department located at 21 West South Temple. This department is maintained exclusively as an accommodation to Relief Society organizations. It is operated as a wholesale business, thus benefiting the Relief Societies financially as well as making suitable materials conveniently available to them. Since the Supply Department is not a retail business, sales to individuals as such are not allowed.

VISITING TEACHING

Recognizing the value and importance of visiting teaching in the program of Relief Society, we are deeply grateful for the marked increase in the number of visits and the quality of teaching being done by the Society's 113,680 faithful sisters who month by month, rain or shine, go forth as emissaries of Relief Society to Latter-day Saint homes. There were in excess of 4,300,000 visits made during 1963, an increase over the previous year of approximately 200,000.

MAGAZINE

Highest commendation is due Relief Society Magazine representatives who, encouraged by Relief Society presidents, increased the paid subscriptions by 15,827, making a present paid circulation of 217,397. You will be pleased to know that the circulation for this October will be 223,000. The editorial staff of the Magazine deserves praise for the physical attractiveness of the publication and for the general excellence of Magazine content.

REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

MUSIC

It is the responsibility of the ward chorister, planning with the organist, to select songs to be sung by the congregation as a part of the regular procedure of the weekly Relief Society meetings. By carefully reading the previews and lessons in all departments and planning together for each Relief Society meeting, and through suggestions received from the stake chorister and organist at the leadership meetings, the ward chorister and organist will be able to choose music that will correlate with the subject to be studied. The message of the lesson to be taught on each of the respective meeting days is enhanced where the congregational songs correlate with the lesson.

Where a class leader wishes a special musical number to augment the lesson during its presentation and emphasize its message, she may arrange for such music herself, as she would arrange for any other special feature or teaching aid in connection with the lesson. It is a courtesy, however, for her to acquaint the chorister with her plan. If she wishes to enlist the help of the chorister in obtaining a special musical number, she may do so through authorization of the president.

SINGING MOTHERS

Singing Mothers activities are proving to be a missionary for Relief Society and the Church and are bringing cultural and spiritual development as well as joy into the lives of participants. Outstanding concerts have been held in many areas.

At the close of 1963, the Society had approximately 3,000 Singing Mothers choruses with 42,000 sisters participating.

COMPASSIONATE SERVICES

Compassionate services continue to expand with the growth of Relief Society and the growth of the Church. These services of loving, tender mercy symbolize the heart of Relief Society, ennobling the lives of those who serve and blessing those who are served.

The following figures are heartening:
                    1963    Increase
Days care
of the sick      32,666   1,934+
Visits to Sick
and Home-
bound           390,566  24,744+
Number of Hours
of Other
Compassionate
Services        596,349  98,059+

NURSING SERVICES

There are 3,674 wards and branches maintaining a current list of nurses within their respective areas. The General Board has long emphasized the importance of this, along with the importance of women taking training for the nursing profession. Excellent short-term courses are offered in practical nursing. Courses leading toward a baccalaureate degree are also available. Our own Brigham Young University offers such training. Relief Society would be remiss in meeting its responsibility to the sick if it failed to concern itself with the training of nurses. I call your attention

821

NOVEMBER 1964

to the article, "Nursing and Nurse Training in Relief Society," by Irene B. Woodford, Relief Society Magazine, September 1964.

CHURCH WELFARE PARTICIPATION

The sisters continue devoted support of the Church Welfare Program as is evidenced by the following figures:

Family Visits Made      Increase
    Under Direction
    of Bishop    100,969  3,454+
Hours Contributed
    by All Females
    on Welfare
    Projects      902,221  7,264+

It is our understanding that some changes are anticipated in designations of members of Relief Society presidencies and also in meetings and procedures as they relate to Relief Society's cooperation with the Church Welfare Program. Such changes will be announced at the proper time by the Church Welfare Committee. We assure the women that the full support of Relief Society will be forthcoming as changes are made.

INTER-STAKE FUNCTIONS

Sisters, we are noting a growing tendency for two or more stakes to join together for a special function, such as a Homemaking Institute, a Magazine Promotion Workshop, or a Class Leaders' Institute. Specialists usually appear on the program and tremendous effort is put forth to assure the success of the undertak-

ing. Often considerable costs are involved.

The General Board does not endorse such multiple stake activities. Most of the good derived from such activities could be accomplished within the individual stakes and, in most instances, within the framework of the approved and regularly scheduled programs and meetings. It is a convenience to the sisters to have functions within their own wards or stakes and more sisters receive development. Also this is the orderly procedure of the Church. Where deviations from this regulation seem desirable, the matter should be referred to the General Board for approval.

EXERCISE OF FRANCHISE

One other matter seems appropriate to call to your attention. This is a national election year. Relief Society women of the past worked long and hard to win the right to vote and to hold public office. We urge you to exercise your right of franchise. Be informed on the issues, learn all you can as individuals from reliable sources about the candidates, and vote according to what you believe to be in the best interests of good government. The woman's vote today is an important one — it should be an informed one.

CONCLUSION

May the choice blessings of the Lord continue with you during the forthcoming season as you give humble and inspired leadership to the Relief Societies of your respective stakes and mission districts.

822

[ILLUSTRATION: A woman in 1950s dress sitting by a window with curtains, looking out at a car. There appears to be dishes and kitchenware on a table or counter in front of her.]
