Sound of Storm and Praise aT The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: lWustrations: Margery S. Stewart Photograph by Luoma Studios Dick Scopes Mary Scopes Representation of Relief Society Visiting Teachers in Pioneer Times Transparency by J. M. Heslop Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Spon Na and Ser May I tell you. How much we enjoy the wonderful, truly inspired, and 'uplifting Magazine. Since being away from the States (two years now), my appreciation for the Magazine has doubled. 1 find much wisdom in its pages; and it makes me proud to be a member of the Church and to serve with my -husband and children out here so many hundreds of miles away from our home in a valley of the mountains. It gives a different sense of proportion to all things. Mrs. D'On Hansen Yarraville, Victoria Australia Last December 1963 I began receiving our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. It was a Christmas gift from my sister Mrs. Ray E. Harris of Midvale, Utah.- My husband, who was a nonmember of the Church began reading it and now he loves the Magazine, also. Last April he and our thirteen-year-old daughter were baptized into our wonderful Church, and we have never been happier. My wonderful husband has bought a new bookcase for holding all his Church books. Mrs. Bernard O. Walker Napa, California I am a convert to the Church and have been a member for a year now. I enjoy participating in Relief Society very much, and! Really anticipate the arrival of the Magazine. It has done so much to strengthen my testimony. I know that I will build a better home because of the inspiration of the Magazine. Karen V. Morris Big Spring, Texas I cannot begin to tell you the many happy hours I! Have spent reading and learning all that my Relief Society Magazine means to me. It teaches all of us to have a better understanding and brings us closer to the kingdom of God. Phoebe Farnsworth Pocatello,. Idaho 802 The Relief Society Magazines have been my friends for many years. They keep me from feeling so alone. Each one fills my needs and gives me strength. -They have contributed to my spiritual growth and have heiped me to be a better mother and homemaker. Mrs. Julia Walker Mesquite, Nevada While visiting. Teaching four months ago, we were welcomed into the home of a sweet young Japanese mother who, at that time, was not interested in the Church or the message. My companion and I subscribed to The Relief Society Magazine for her as a gift. Stake missionaries and other visiting teachers kept in touch. - She and two young sons -have since been baptized into the Church. The mother is now serving as second counselor in her ward Relief Society, an energetic, devoted member, whose influence is being felt for good in her own family —- her widowed mother and parentsin-law, and her sisters. We are truly grateful for the excellent and welcome guest each month — the Magazine. Genevieve Lindsay Moreland, Idaho Not long ago I received a card from my home town in Idaho that the sisters there were sending me a Relief Society Magazine each month. They began in January, and with each new Magazine I look forward to its interesting a new investigator. In our proselyting activities, many people have been interested through this inspiring ladies' Magazine. Elder Alan Rich Crane New Zealand Mission I really enjoy the Magazine and find myself anxiously awaiting its arrival each month. The stories and poems hold great interest for me, as I have wanted to try my hand at writing for sometime. Mrs. Linda Joan Simons Spring Lake, North Carolina The Relief Society Magazine 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918 Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.