[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 829 | Fiction | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

RECENTLY in Bogota, Colombia, South America, your columnist had the pleasure of meeting SENORA INES DE MONTANA of the staff of The Spectator, a daily newspaper with a national circulation. She and her executive husband had both written for the paper, and when he suddenly died, she felt that she could never write again. "We always went over each other's work," she said, "and discussed so many things. It was not respectable for girls to go to college, so he was my university." She finally forced herself back to work and is now reputed "the best woman journalist in Colombia." She believes in the power of the press for good, and has been of invaluable help in causes such as the training and employing of the physically handicapped. The international organization of Alcoholics Anonymous recently cited her at a public meeting for her help. Mrs. Montana mentioned a visit of hers to Salt Lake City. "I merits its reputation as the cleanest city in the United States," she wrote. In conversation, this warm, charming, courageous woman smiled and said, "And those Mormons — no coffee, no tea, no tobacco, no liquor!"

NANCY LADY ASTOR, born in Virginia, who became the first woman to sit in Great Britain's Parliament, died in a London suburb, May 2, a few days before her eighty-fifth birthday. Elected to the House of Commons to succeed her husband when he was elevated to the House of Lords, she served for twenty-five years. Her last public appearance was eighteen months ago. Witty and sharp-tongued, Lady Astor fought for many causes, principally women's advancement and everybody's abstinence from liquor.

MRS. OLIVE WOOLLEY BURT, of Salt Lake City, author of thirty-five published books, and for many years a newspaper woman and writer of magazine articles, has been named Woman of Achievement of the Year by the National Federation of Press Women.

MRS. ORA PATE STEWART, author, poet and lecturer, recently won two national awards sponsored by the National League of American Pen Women. One was first prize for her Book of Remembrance in the national genealogy contest of the organization. The other was second prize for her entry, "Moment of Truth," in the humorous verse department.

MRS. MAUDE B. BURNELL, ninety-three, of Portland, Maine, as chairman of the East Baldwin Branch of the American Red Cross, was the dynamic and successful leader in the 1964 fund campaign, wherein her group raised 200 per cent of its quota. "Grandma" Burnell has now resigned her position in Red Cross volunteer service, explaining "My legs just aren't what they used to be."

DR. EDITH SANDS heads Long Island University's Business and Financial Department. In preparation for her book How to Select Executive Personnel (Reinhold, New York), she talked and sent questionnaires to eighty-two American business leaders. Only four per cent of the nation's executives are women, though women make up one third of the nation's labor force. The National Manpower Council learned through research that women are as capable as men of high achievements in technical and scientific fields.

829

the Home
inside and out

[PHOTOGRAPH]

In Time of Harvest                                                           Hal Rumel
