[Vol51 | November 1964 | Page 823 | Fiction | Our Roots Go Deep Frances | C. Yost]

Our Roots Go Deep                                Frances C. Yost

MARION Coombs kissed each loving child and waved them all off to school. Wally had left almost at daylight for the electric shop. He had a television set he had promised to get repaired and delivered by noon, and it was a cantankerous job, he said, which would probably take a lot of time.

Marion sat down by the window to watch the children out of sight as they skipped down the street toward school. She needed to give herself a much-needed moment of rest, too. As she glanced out of the window she saw her neighbor, Vera Holly, dressed most becomingly, get into a car at the curb and drive off with a strange man. Marion's eyebrows raised slightly and she murmured, "Well, what do you know??"

Marion mastered her mind and brought it back to her own world and her own problems. Let's see, none of the family will be home for lunch, so she wouldn't have to bother about that. There were the makings of a nice stew in the frig for supper. The family liked stew, but she needed something to glorify it. How about a grapefruit and avocado salad? A strawberry baked Alaska pie for dessert would be just super. Marion could almost hear the family's "ah's" of approval at the very sight of a dessert piping hot from the oven, and freezing cold from the frig. She would make two big pies while she was at it, and the family could have seconds all the way around.

Marion cleaned up the house in good time, and started making the crust for the pies. But her

823

NOVEMBER 1964

mind wandered back to Vera who had presence of mind enough
Holly. Where had she gone? to administer artificial respiration
Who was the fellow she had driv- and mouth-to-mouth breathing.
en off with? She owed a lot to Vera Holly.

"Marion Coombs, will you curb Jim Holly hadn't spent as
your impulsive thoughts?" she much time with her and Wally
chided. lately as he used to. Well, he

Yet, thinking about the Holly hadn't spent as much time with
family was part of her living. the family either. He was so tied
They had bought these houses up in his real estate business,
side by side before either couple which was booming in all direc-
had any children. Marion remem- tions.
bered the day she and Wally had Poor, dear, faithful Wally was
moved in. Vera and Jim had still plugging away in the electric
come over to help them with the repair shop on a hit-and-miss sal-
heavy furniture. They had even ary. But they managed and were
set out the trees together. These happy, and that was what count-
dear old evergreens, quaking asp- ed most. Yet it was hard to see
en, and silver maple trees now one's friends who had started out
shaded their homes as if they had with nothing, just the same as
been planted by Father Adam yourselves, to watch them ad-
... well almost. vance and be successful financial-

As the children came along, ly. But, Marion told herself,
they, too, had become fast friends. money wasn't everything. She
Many a ball game they had had wondered again about Vera Hol-
across the street in the park to- ly, and where she was spending
gether. Lately, since young John the day.
Holly and Wally J. were big
enough, their fun had included MARION found time to study her
bowling and overnight fishing ex- literature lesson for Relief So-
cursions with their fathers. ciety, and to read the Doctrine

Marion remembered the day and Covenants assignment for
the Holly house had caught on the theology lesson. She even
fire. There hadn't been a great pasted pictures in her Book of
deal of damage, and yet the house Remembrance before the children
was smoked up in every room, came home from school.
and Marion had invited the fam-
ily to come over and sleep and At last the clock's hands moved
eat at her home until they could themselves to four-thirty, and the
renovate and repair the damage. children, one by one, shouted

Marion remembered, too, one "Mother," as they came in the
day when her own little Susie front door. And in answer to
had come up missing. She and each one she replied sweetly:
Vera trudged every street in the "Right here, dear."
area on foot. How they could
have used a car that day! They It was nice having the children
had finally found little Susie up around her, Marion thought. She
on Elmer Drive in a swimming liked to hear how Wally J. was
pool. It had been Vera Holly coming with his advanced math,

even though she couldn't help
him anymore, because he had

824

OUR ROOTS GO DEEP

surpassed her in the field of arithmetic. She liked the recipes which Susie brought home from her home economics classes to try out on the family. She liked the seventh grade science lessons which Dale read aloud to her. Life was good, she had a good family, and she was happy.

She knew it was not wise to be concerned about her neighbors so much. She must be able to live her own life, mind her own business.

Just then Vera Holly turned in the driveway. She was at the wheel of a new royal blue station wagon. Marion could tell by the big smile on Vera's face that it was her own car, and it was completely paid for. If Vera came over bragging about it, she would . . . she would. Marion didn't know what she would do. Probably start right over with envy.

"Marion," she said, "get hold of yourself! Why the idea of being jealous because someone gets a new car. Shame! Shame! Shame!"

She knew if Vera Holly was in trouble, she would rush over and move heaven and earth to help her. But because she was successful, was getting a few of the nicer things of life, Marion was becoming jealous and wanted to weave a cocoon of protection around herself.

Marion looked at the two parfait pies. Vera had been gone all day. She probably was hurrying around to get supper ready for her family. She would no doubt welcome a prepared dessert. Marion ran the comb through her hair, wiped the jealous tears from her eyes, added a bit of lipstick, and slipped out of the door and walked over to the Holly residence. She rang the back doorbell.

"Oh, Marion, I'm so glad you came over." Vera was busy preparing a quick spaghetti supper and a tossed salad.

"I thought you could use this strawberry baked Alaska pie for dessert."

"Marion, you are a treasure. I've just never had such a dear friend as you are. I sure can use the pie. You see, I've been gone all day, and I'm tired. Marion, it's a long story and I'll have to start at the first. Sit down for a bit.

"Jim opened up that Windemere building area, and he said that if I wanted to, we could get one of those choice lots and build a new home. We looked at house plans, but you know, Marion, the new modern homes aren't homey and cozy like yours and mine.

"Our whole family talked it over, and we took a secret ballot vote. Would you believe it, we all voted to stay right here. The children like their friends here, and their tree house. We planted these dear old trees, you folks and Jim and I, and well, you just can't pull up roots like that. Our roots go deep, Marion.

"I told Jim what I wanted was a car of my own. So that when you and I wanted to go shopping, or take the children on picnics or for a swim we could go. Jim and Wally always have the family cars, and I thought how nice it would be if I could drive you to Relief Society when you have all those visual aids to carry. I thought about the time we hunted for little Susie when she was

(Continued on page 879)

825
