Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918 Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Another Season Christie Lund Coles) ===
There's nothing in the world like good friends and neighbors. My roots go deep, too, Vera." And Marion knew she really meant it. Design Vesta N. Fairbairn Mountain pines applique With needied featherstitch The cut-out shapes Of clouds upon the sky. HAWAIIAN TOUR Departure Date November 17 ROSE PARADE TOURS Departure Dates: December 26 December 27 HAWAIIAN TOUR February Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you.. Wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover —. $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders: Please include postage. According 'to table-listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and2 55 Zane 6.90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4.65 Zone 8 1.20 ZL} 5) rr.80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. —_— 7 PESERET PREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 879 Githdey Cy One Hundred Five Mrs. Hilda Anderson Erickson Grantsville, Utah One Hundred Two Mrs. Katherine Ann Rogers Cluff Wenatchee, Washington Ninety-eight Mrs. Alice Potts Soule North Little Rock, Arkansas Ninety-seven Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas Shaw Los Angeles, California Ninety-six Mrs. Rosalia Marion Williams Beardail Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Adella Cowley Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Johanne Mariah Hegsted Rawson Whittier, California Ninety-five Mrs. Rhoda Ann McClellan Cardon EI Paso, Texas Mrs. Mary Robina Murphy Norris Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Olive Draper Anderson Nephi, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Sena Anderson Young Richfield, Utah Mrs. Malinda Cook Briggs Syracuse, Utah Mrs. Nettie Hunt Rencher Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Hannah Osborne Ashton, Idaho Ninety-two Mrs. Laura J. Fredrickson Petersen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lily Purdy Bagley Sacramento, California 880 CHOI Mrs. Matilda Anderson Staples Elsinore, Utah Mrs. Sarah Lottie Phyllips Collett San Diego, California Mrs. Lavina Mae Winter Wood Fullerton, California Mrs. Susan Jane Wakefield Loveless Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Selma Steele Whittier, California Mrs. Susan Jane Duncan Clark Farmington, Utah Mrs. Lucy Anna Plank Sacramento, California Ninety-one Mrs. Sarah Brackett Foss Elliott Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elsie Eleanor Oliver Wilcox Bridgeport, Nebraska Mrs. Annie Wilcox Madsen Mount Pleasant, Utah Mrs. Sarah Walters Jones Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jessie Bowers Smith Inman Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Mildred Boshard Moore Los Angeles, California Mrs. Pamela Stoddard Gale Willard, Utah Ninety Mrs. Maria Greer Parkinson Darley Corning, California Mrs. Mamie Seegmiller St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Larsen Price Lakeview, Utah Mrs. Gustella Wilkins Larson Phoenix, Arizona« Mrs. Dolly R. Manire Hopkinsville, Kentucky Mrs. Lelia Olive Moon Potter North Farmington, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Ann Haight Esplin Shelley, Idaho For Relief Society Sisters Relief Society Literature Packet. Out_of the Best Books literature teaching materials. Packet includes eight beautifully reproduced pictures in color on stiff backing and a long play 33% 1 p. M. Record as an aid to teaching the literature course. Set $6.00 2 The Latter-day Prophets and the Doetrine and Covenants, Volume III, Seetions 77-106 by Roy W. Doxey The newest volume in the series is now off the press! These volumes examine the Doctrine and Covenants in light of interpretation by prophets, seers, and revelators from the time of Joseph Smith to the present. Volumes I, II, & Ill — $3.95 each 3 Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76 and Sections 78-87 by Roy W. Doxey A compilation of eight fabulous lectures by one of the LDS Church's foremost specialists on the Doctrine and Covenants. Here is a booklet that every Latier-day Saint will want to refer to again and again. 1 $1.00 The Doctrine and Covenants Speaks 5 by Roy W. Doxey Theology Picture Packet for 1964-65 A commentary on the Doctrine and Covenants that Pictures for use by teachers of the theology shows unusual insight and helps explain this scripture lessons that will prove invaluable. $1 00 for the layman. $5.95 Theology Kit for 1963-64. 10 cents postage still available... $1.00 Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find money order.. COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY check I have an account, please charge for the it! 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 9 SS 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA above numbered items: ] 2 3 4 5 * SS —S=_ = ————— ——a— '<a a PPO cece. Cecensecenauccccceeaveeccucuussedececsusessmeumeuuuees C—O —————State Zip Residents of Utah please add 34%2% sales tax. Skillet (Popular 10" ba a fryer) with co > a Chicken — ver and I NYION spatula I - ($6.75 Value).. $3.75 Saute Pan andy 8' ($3.50 Value) ¥. Less Bow/ Offer - Rockfield, Wisconsin.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_11_09_Fict_Our_Yost.txt) ===
told herself, money wasn't everything. She wondered again about Vera Holly, and where she was spending the day. Marion found time to study her literature lesson for Relief Society, and to read the Doctrine and Covenants assignment for the theology lesson. She even pasted pictures in her Book of Remembrance before the children came home from school. At last the clock's hands moved themselves to four-thirty, and the children, one by one, shouted "Mother," as they came in the front door. And in answer to each one she replied sweetly: "Right here, dear." It was nice having the children around her, Marion thought. She liked to hear how Wally J. Was coming with his advanced math, even though she couldn't help him anymore, because he had surpassed her in the field of arithmetic. She liked the recipes which Susie brought home from her home economics classes to try out on the family. She liked the seventh grade science lessons which Dale read aloud to her. Life was good, she had a good family, and she was happy. She knew it was not wise to be concerned about her neighbors so much. She must be able to live her own life, mind her own business. Just then Vera Holly turned in the driveway. She was at the wheel of a new royal blue station wagon. Marion could tell by the big smile on Vera's face that it was her own car, and it was completely paid for. If Vera came over bragging about it, she would.. She would. Marion didn't know what she would do. Probably start crying with envy. "Marion," she said, "get hold of yourself! Why the idea of being jealous because someone gets a new car. Shame! Shame! Shame!" She knew if Vera Holly was in trouble, she would rush over and move heaven and earth to help her. But because she was successful, was getting a few of the nicer things of life, Marion was becoming jealous and wanted to weave a cocoon of protection around herself. Marion looked at the two parfait pies. Vera had been gone all day. She probably was hurrying around to get supper ready for her family. She would no doubt welcome a prepared dessert. Marion ran the comb through her hair, wiped the jealous tears from her eyes, added a bit of lipstick, and slipped out of the door and OUR ROOTS GO DEEP walked over to the Holly residence. She rang the back doorbell. "Oh, Marion, I'm so glad you came over." Vera was busy preparing a quick spaghetti supper and a tossed salad. "I thought you could use this strawberry baked Alaska pie for dessert." '"'Marion, you are a treasure. I've just never had such a dear friend as you are. I sure can use the pie. You see, I've been gone all day, and I'm tired. Marion, it's a long story and I'll have to start at the first. Sit down for a bit. "Jim opened up that Windemere building area, and he said that if I wanted to, we could get one of those choice lots and build anew home. We looked at house plans, but you know, Marion, the new modern homes aren't homey and cozy like yours and mine. "Our whole family talked it over, and we took a secret ballot vote. Would you believe it, we all voted to stay right here. The children like their friends here, and their tree house. We planted these dear old trees, you folks and Jim and I, and well, you just can't pull up roots like that. Our roots go deep, Marion. "TI told Jim what I wanted was a car of my own. So that when you and I wanted to go shopping, or take the children on picnics or for a swim we could go. Jim and Wally always have the family cars, and I thought how nice it would be if I could drive you to Relief Society when you have all those visual aids to carry.

I thought about the time we hunted for little Susie when she was (Continued on page 879) 825 "samuel Johnson said, ''Gratitude is a fruit of great cultivation": and Aesop wrote ''Gratitude is the sign of noble souls." Latter-day Saints are taught to express gratitude to the Lord many times daily —- in secret prayer, before each meal, in family prayers, and in testimonies before one's fellow men. Gratitude is expressed as the result of the ability to buy a new car, new household appliances, a new home in a new subdivision, new clothes, vacation trips. Gratitude means a pair of shoes for a child, food for a family, money to pay the doctor bill, the light and heat bills, to keep the family car running. Gratitude means a child on a mission, a calling in the Church, the payment of tithes and offerings, service to others, the healing of a loved one. Circumstances under which people live vary widely, but not the necessity of feeling and expressing gratitude for every blessing. There are, however, trials and tribulations, heartaches, sickness, even partings from loved ones. It takes great faith to be grateful for such experiences; the human soul cannot, at times, rise spontaneously in gratitude. Yet one knows that experiences are given as a testing, 

 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor e Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Gratitude and that this life is to prove the individual. As one looks back over a time of dire distress, often the good which emerged can be traced, although at the time it seemed impossible to find it. It may be long afterwards before gratitude fills the soul. The Lord decreed, ''In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread."' This may be viewed as a curse — forcing men to work hard, or it may be viewed with gratitude as an opportunity to work. The understanding and attitude of the individual make the difference. A mother may work long hours in homemaking, disciplining children, encouraging them, serving them, cleaning, sewing, cooking, nursing, gardening — at the end of the day, however, her gratitude and satisfaction well up to the Lord for work well done, and the ability to perform the duties which devolve upon her, a sign of a noble soul, according to Aesop. Almost everyone needs practice in cultivating and expressing gratitude, in searching out and acknowledging the good both in tribulations and blessings. As one approaches an attitude of gratitude for all things, one reaches nearer the avowal of the Savior "Not my will, but thine, be done."' —M. C. S. Anna B. Hart Mary V. Cameron Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C.

ailable... $1.00 Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find money order.. COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY check I have an account, please charge for the it! 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 9 SS 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA above numbered items: ] 2 3 4 5 * SS —S=_ = ————— ——a— '<a a PPO cece. Cecensecenauccccceeaveeccucuussedececsusessmeumeuuuees C—O —————State Zip Residents of Utah please add 34%2% sales tax. Skillet (Popular 10" ba a fryer) with co > a Chicken — ver and I NYION spatula I - ($6.75 Value).. $3.75 Saute Pan andy 8' ($3.50 Value) ¥. Less Bow/ Offer - Rockfield, Wisconsin.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_11_16_Fict_Colorful_Krambule.txt) ===
Neither one would ever be at home again, except for visits. I had adjusted as well as a woman can to years of widowhood, but now a new adjustment faced me. It was dusk when I drove into my garage. The house was dark, and lonely. It could never be a real home again, it seemed to me at that desolate moment. It took me some time to find courage to walk to the house. I contemplated going to the home of a relative or friend — at least for this one night. But, I realized it would be as hard the next night, or the next. It was a new life I was facing, and it was up to me how I faced it. Finally, I unlocked the door and went inside. I turned on a light and started toward my bedroom where I intended to throw myself on my bed and release the pent-up tears that were choking me. I felt that I could weep forever. My doorbell rang. Reluctantly I answered it. There stood my friend Nellie. Before I could speak she said: "Here I am with my nightgown. I knew how hard this first night with Helen and Charlie both gone would be. Tomorrow will be a new day, and the sun will be shining. But I didn't want you to be alone tonight." A little act of kindness and of love. No! It was a big act, and it helped more than Nellie could know. She may have forgotten it. But her act. With so many others that have blessed and brightened my life, will never be unremembered by me.