[Column 2]
the homes of a free people. What will be 
the after effect upon these brave and gallant 
young men is still unknown and unforseen. 
Cuba is free but what of our boys who 
fought for the Cubans? Those men who 
died gloriously are safe but they are only a 
few compared to those who survive—will
life ever be the same to them again? To 
the few perhaps and we trust so to all of 
our own people the Latter-day Saints; but 
to the masses who bravely faced death as 
volunteers. It will be a problem; and 
there are home problems of great importance 
financial and moral to be considered in the 
near future. 
Men in general consider this war un-
avoidable but many women and a few men 
think it might have been avoided, but wo-
men were not considered, their opinions 
were not counted but their money, their 
homes, their taxes will make them a part 
of the after thought. Their past so far has 
been first of all to give their sons, their hus-
bands to their country, they have done this 
nobly and heroically. Then they gave ser-
vice such as women can render in many 
ways, through organizations, nurses and
ships they went into the camps and field 
hospitals and aboard the ships and in every 
way possible did efficient duty among the 
sick and wounded. And what will be the 
next chapter in the course of events—they
must bear their share of the expense of the 
nation. Men sometimes forget that women 
are property owners, that the war taxes 
will fall heavily upon women as well as 
men. Women are not exempt from tax-
ation even where there is no representation 
and that is almost everywhere as only four 
states have equal suffrage. 
This burden of taxation among others 
will have to be borne by women, for where 
women are not property owners, as in the 
family life of men and women, women 
must help to pay the taxes by economy 
and thrift if not by actual labor. The 
opinions of prominent women in the United 
States on the war question is being sought 
after by some liberal-minded editors, and 
certainly views entertained by women who
have lived three and four score years ought
to be worth something to the public.
Susan B. Anthony said: “There is, there
can be no justifiable cause for war save that 
founded on the barbarism of one or both of 
the nations entering into that mode of set-
tling differences. But Quaker though I am, 
I always hope and pray for success to the 
most nearly civilized party, and that, in this 
case, goes without a question on the side of 
United States. But the time is not far dis-
tant when fighting to settle differences be-
tween two nations will be no less horrible 
than is fighting now between two men.”
Dr. Anna H. Shaw: “I do not consider 
the present war justifiable, because war to 
be justifiable should be the last resort of a 
civilized people. President McKinley 
through the Administration representatives 
made it clearly understood that if Congress 
would adjourn and end all discussion, 
which aroused only hatred of the Spaniards 
for the Americans without relieving the 
Cubans, war would have been averted.”
Alice Stone Blackwell, a young woman,
says:“I think the war was justifiable if it 
was the only way of stopping Spanish 
atrocities in Cuba. Whether it was the 
only way or not I am not sure and do not 
feel that my knowledge of international di-
plomacy is complete enough to enable me 
to form a valid opinion. If the object 

[Column3]
could have been accomplished by any 
means short of war, the resort to arms was 
wrong. But the cruelties in Cuba had to 
be stopped in one way or the other.”
Elizabeth Cady Stanton:“I consider
war under many circumstances a blessing 
all along from the play ground to the throne. 
Through our war with England we gained
ndependence and a free republic. Through 
our Civil war we freed four million slaves. 
Every bully that is thoroughly thrashed on 
the play ground gives new liberty and self-
respect to half a dozen other boys. If we 
can overturn the Spanish dynasty in all her 
islands it will be worth the loss of men and 
ships. Life is not worth much without 
liberty. My one regret is that we did not 
thrash that cruel, brutal nation, with her 
bull fights and inquisitions, long ago. It is 
a miracle to me that she has been tolerated 
so long in the heart of Europe. Our pres-
ent civilization, on the competitive system, 
is based on the war principle: ‘Every man
for himself; starvation and death for the
hindmost.’ All talk about peace, nation-
al and international conventions are of no 
special value at this stage of our develop-
ment. Justice, liberty, equality for all first, 
and then ‘that peace that passeth all under-
standing.’”
Julia Ward Howe: “I consider the pres-
ent war with Spain to have been inevitable.
Suffering Cuba has long agonized under 
Spanish misrule. Her sufferings have been 
so aggravated by the barbarous methods of 
warfare adopted by Spanish commanders as 
to have become intolerable, not to the 
Cubans alone, but to the very heart of hu-
manity. The Christian world had reason
to be deeply concerned when the Powers of
Western Europe declined to interfere for
the prevention of the cruel outrages which 
the Spanish government inflicted upon the 
Armenians, and which were a stain upon 
the honor of Christendom. I thank God 
that we are doing something to retrieve this 
disgrace by rising up to help our neighbor 
in her need.”
Mary A. Livermore: “Whether the war 
with Spain is justifiable or not I am not 
sufficiently acquainted with the facts to 
judge. The brutal misgovernment of 
Spain for centuries has wrought such
wretchedness and desolation in Cuba, with 
no hope of a change for the better, that it 
called for the interference of the United 
States, which demanded of Spain the inde-
pendence of Cuba. They that are strong 
ought to bear the infirmities of the weak 
and not to please themselves. The ques-
tion of Cuban freedom could not be sub-
mitted to the arbitration of European!
nations. Their attitude towards Turkey, 
red-handed with Armenian massacre and 
extermination forbade it. The United 
States was compelled to deal with Spain 
alone. Whether President McKinley could 
have accomplished the desired end without 
war, but for the interference of Congress, is 
problematical. I have thought so, but. my
opinion has been modified as the war has 
progressed. I believe in the ultimate abo-
lition of war, I cannot ignore the fact that 
it has been a powerful factor in the evolu-
tion of civilization.”
Other women whose opinions on this 
subject have been given to the press are 
Mrs. John A. Logan. Ellen M. Henrotin, 
J. Ellen Foster, Ella Knowles Haskell and 
some not as widely known. It would be.
well lor the readers of the “Exponent". to
carefully consider this question, it is well to


look into all the phases of the war problem. 
It vitally concerns us all, we in Utah are 
called upon to bear our share of the burden.
And as we have equal rights to citizenship 
we should express our views on these great 
questions of national importance and make 
ourselves acquainted with historical facts.


