FOREIGN LETTER. 

Malaela, Samoa, July 8, 1898.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	So little you hear of Samoa and so many
Elders have been here proclaiming the Gos-
pel, and our mission has been organized
eleven years, during that time there have
been one hundred and nine missionaries, so
we are now a thoroughly organized mission.
The manners and customs of this people are
different from ours, and the mode in which
we are compelled to proclaim the Gospel so
departing from the usual method, I thought
a letter might be of interest to you and the
readers of the “Exponent.”
	My husband and I left Manti Sep. 9,
1897, for a mission to Samoa. We de-
parted from San Francisco Sep. 10, 1897,
on the steamer Mariposa, all our Elders go
second class. The accommodations on the
Mariposa are not very good on account of
the second class apartments having been
transformed from steerage rooms, but the
same class on some of the other vessels is
very much improved. Sep. 23, we an-
chored at Honolulu where we met Elders
Hill and Ahlstrom, who escorted us to the 
Mission house where we had dinner, chat-
ted about Zion and our voyage. Honolulu
is truly a picturesque city adorned with
lawns, flowers and palms. At 2 p. m. we
again raised anchor. Our voyage was


[Column 1]
calm, there being no high winds or tropical
rains. On Sep. 30. at 10 a. m. we went up
on deck and with the aid of field glasses
we beheld Samoa in the hazy, blue distance.
As we came nearer we could see the out-
lines of the island, next the stately palms,
dotted here and there with white smoke
curling heavenward from the ovens of food,
the little village among the palms, and last
the dusky natives in their curious dress and
canoes. Owing to the bad harbor at Apia
there is no wharf, so we were met on deck
by President Wood who took us ashore in a
small boat. After landing in Apia the
president had a small boy drive us three
miles along the coast to Fagalii, the mission
headquarters. There we met Elders Chaun-
cy Spilsbury, William A. Moody, William
McDermott, D. Foster Cluff and Edwin
Smart. In the evening when President
Wood returned we met in testimony and
sacrament meeting, a usual welcome ac-
corded to all the Elders on their arrival.
	The mission headquarters is a neat little
five roomed frame house surrounded by
lawns, dotted here and there with ferns,
cactus, roses and various flowers adapted to
the climate. Although no mistress person-
ally adorns the home, yet the ideas of a
mistress are seen in all its arrangements.
Samoa, as Stevenson says, is the paradise of
the South Pacific. The natives are not in-
dustrious. Nature produces their food with
but little work on their part, thus fostering
indolence; however, the talo needs consider-
able attention as it must be irrigated and
weeded.
	The new woman has not yet come to
Samoa. She is of little consequence here
save in courting. When married she gath-
ers the food from the bush, makes the cigar-
etts for the men, as smoking is universal;
her name is significant, “Faletua,” the
back part of the house.
	In an article in the February number of
the “Exponent” entitled “Polynesia,” de-
scribing the customs of some of the South
Sea islanders, the custom of ava drinking is
referred to as follows:
	“After the [-]atives have drunk th ir fill of awa
(ava) they simply fall over from their seats on
the mats on which they have been sit ing while
drinking, and sleep ou[-] the effects of the drug, un-
til which it would be impossible for them to stand
up for a moment.”
	Since the arrival of our Elders eleven
years ago there has been no such custom.
One of our first missionaries, Elder E. J.
Wood, who is now on his second mission as
president, never heard of such a thing. In
preparing the ava instead of its being mas-
ticated by the virgins, it is pounded fine on
smooth rocks for the purpose, put in a
wooden bowl where it is then strained,
after which it is served to the chiefs by the
virgins with great ceremony.
	In the same article the writer says:
	"Speaking about storms in the tropics my hus-
band relates an experience he had in Samoa.
While crossing a lava bed [-]bout twelve miles i
extent together with a traveling companion, a
regular tropica rain storm came upon them; and
such a storm conveys the sense of "pourin[-]"
more than raining to the average American. See-
ing the storm approach m[-] husband i[-] speaking
to his companion expressed the regret they had
taken no overcoats along. “Overcoats,” respond-
ed his companion, “just look at me, and if you
like you can fol ow my example.” To his sur-
prise his companion immediately undressed him-
self and put his clothes in his ittle and satchel.
My husband hesitated but finally did likewise, and
the result was that when the storm abated they
both had dry clothing to put on.”
	For fear the readers may think this is the

