SPECIAL PRIMARY MEETING.

	A special meeting of the Primary Stake
officers was held in Wanship, Summit Stake
Saturday July 15, President Louie B. Felt
and Counselor May Anderson of the Gener-
al Board were present.  The meeting was
appointed by President Cluff of Summit
Stake for the purpose of organizing the
Stake board of the Primary Association,
Sister Louisa Roundy having decided to re-
sign her position as Stake president.
	After opening the meeting in the usual
manner Sister Roundy stated why she
wished to be released from her office; it was
not because she was tired of her work or
wished to shirk her duty, she loved her
work with the children and believed the
children loved her, but felt that it being
necessary to be away from Summit consid-
erable of her time, that the work would not
receive the attention it needed, that it
would be better to step out and let someone
who was more free attend to the many
duties of the office.  Sister Roundy has
held the position of Stake president in the
Primary association for eighteen years and
during that time missed but four confer-
ences, and those on account ot sickness.
	President Cluff, Bishop Atwood of Kamas,
and Sister Roundy’s counselors all bore tes-
timony to the faithfulness with which Sis-
ter Roundy had discharged her duties,
though she had many difficulties and ob-
stacles to meet, and that Summit Stake
could vote to accept Sister Roundy’s resig-
nation with honor, credit and all the praise
that any one holding position could deserve.


Bishop Atwood proposed that the resig-
nation of Sister Roundy be accepted and
that she be honorably released from her posi-
tion, and accorded a vote of thanks for her
work and labor in the Primary Association
of Summit Stake;  the proposition was
seconded and President Cluff presented it
and it was carried unanimously.
	Sister Margaret Salmon of Coalville, was
unanimously sustained to fill the vacant
position.  Sister Salmon not being notified
of this honor was unable on such short
notice to choose her counselors and was
given until the next Stake conference to
find suitable and congenial sisters to help
her in her new duties.  Sister Olive Reed
was proposed and unanimously sustained to
fill the position of Stake secretary and
treasurer.
	During the meeting some of the children
rendered interesting exercises and suitable
and instructive remarks were made by Sisters
Felt and Anderson and also by President
Cluff.
	After the meeting Sisters Felt and Ander-
son were taken by Brother and Sister Cluff
to their beautiful home in Coalville and
were right well entertained by their hospit-
able hosts.  Coalville is a delightful place
in the summer, cool breezes and cold nights,
the change from Salt Lake was truly de-
lightful and sleep was so refreshing.
				MAY ANDERSON,
General Secretary Primary Association.


