EDITORIAL NOTES. 
We observe in notes of Relief Society 
conference of Utah Stake in the last num-
ber of this paper the date is May 15, where-
as it was written July 15, and was the cor-
rect date. 
One of our widowed sisters who has to 
support herself is making by hand neat sun-
bonnets, very pretty and servicable and is 
anxious to dispose of them, they are suitable 
for school children or for smaller ones, 
playing out doors and for the girls and wo-
men rusticating in the mountains or in the 
country elsewhere or for outdoor flower-
gardening or fruit gathering. The sister 
lives at 233 B. St. at Brother L. A. Wil-
son's. 
Sister E. J. Stevenson visited the Sisters'
Relief Society conference at Morgan Stake 
and President Louie Felt of the Primary 
was present at the Primary conference, also 
Sister Stevenson. Both conferences were 
well attended and the spirit and feeling is 
reported as being excellent, the people re-
joicing as elsewhere throughout the State 
in having an abundant harvest of grain. 
It was our good pleasure to attend the 
Sisters' Relief Society conference of Malad 
Stake on the 13th and 14th of this month. 
Meetings were held at West Portage, com-
mencing with the Relief Society, Saturday 
at 10 a. m., Mrs. Lucinda Hoskins presid-
ing. Another meeting at 2 p. m., and at 
the close, perhaps 5 o'clock, the Relief 
Society conference adjourned for three 
months. The subjects dwelt upon were 
industry, silk raising included, economy in 
the household, saving grain, reading 
the Book of Doctrine and Covenants in their 
meetings, annual meeting of each Society 
in the Stake where yearly reports are 
given, necessity of keeping correct records, 
and many other important matters. 
The Young Ladies' conference which 
opened Saturday evening was presided 
over by President Elvira A. Harrison and 
a short but good program rendered, after 
which subjects suitable to the young peo-
ple were spoken upon. Presiden O. C. 
Hoskins was present at both the conferences 
also his counselors, and spoke briefly and 
encouragingly to the sisters. The follow-
ing morning at 10 a. m. the Y. L. confer-
ence had other exercises rendered by the 
young sisters in a very creditable manner. 
The Primary conference was held in the 
afternoon after the sacrament had been ad-
ministered. President Emma H. Halford 
presiding, assisted in the rendering of the 
program by President Philene Hall of the 
local association in West Portage. The 
choldren acquitted themselves admirably 
and observed excellent order. They sang 
Beautiful Zion; recitation by little John R. 
Gibbs; singing, Hold fast the Iron Rod, by 
Tillie McCrary, Naomi Gibbs, Rhoda 
Anthony and Margaret Gibbs; reading 
from Juvenile Instructor, Editorial 
Thoughts, Leona Zundell; recitation, little
LaFayette Young, Keep on Trying; ques-
tions from the Life of Joseph Smith, answ-
ered by the Primary Association; song, 
Sarah M. Gibbs (a very sweet voice,)
three little girls kneeling sang "Our Father in 
heaven we hallow Thy name," etc., it was a 
beautiful sight and well rendered; song, O, 
my Father, by Matilda McCrary, Annie J.
and Eliza Harris, Annie Hall, Leona Zun-
dell, Reba Heaton and Ruby Merrill, and 
accompanied on the organ; recitation, Who 
Made the Stars? little Azella McCrary; 
song, Annie J. Hall and Eliza Harris. 
About forty children took part in the exer-
cises. 
The women of the State are doubtless 
aware that there are important political 
matters pending, in which they are equally 
interested with men and that some attention 
should be given to the vital points at issue; 
as agitation increases, questions present 
themselves that one had supposed would 
never have been considered, and yet they 
cannot be thrust aside when once broached.
The Primaries come first and it is there the 
mischief is usually concocted, if women 
would attend the Primaries in goodly num-
bers there would not be so favorable an op-
portunity for accomplishing evil designs. 
It is the duty of those who can go to be 
present at the Primaries and see to it that 
good men and women are sent as delegates 
to the Conventions. 
Among the schools, academies and col-
leges perhaps the one in the city that de-
serves special notice is the Latter-day 
Saints College. It is an institution under 
the direction of the Church as the name im-
plies and deserves the patronage of the peo-
ple in whose interest it was founded and is 
maintained. Looking over the Catalogue 
for the year it seems to be thoroughly equip-
ped for its purposes in ever department of 
school work. Willard Done D. B., Ph. B., 
President, stands high among men of learn-
ing . and in the community, and the other 
teachers are well qualified for the depart-
ments to which they are assigned. The 
Board of Trustees of teh college and the 
Church Board of Education for this Stake 
are all responsible men of merit and good 
ability and know how to conduct education-
al affairs for the youth of the people and 
of the land. 
The Relief Society of this Stake had an 
outing at Saltair on Monday, August 1,
and a very enjoyable time. President 
Woodruff and President George Q. Cannon 
honored the sisters of this charitable organ-
ization by their presence and also President 
Angus M. Cannon and Counselors Jos. E. 
Taylor and C. W. Penrose and others. 
Sister Zina D. H. Young was one of the party 
and many other noble and venerable 
women of the Church. Sister M. I. Horne 
president, and her aids, as well as all the 
presidents of teh wards in teh city and 
county rendered efficient aid in making 
the Stake party a success. The exercises 
were such as could be seen principally, 
dancing, and recitations by John P. Meakin, 
who could be heard fairly well. He gave 
Sheridan's Ride, Sunshine and Drake's 
Address to the Flag. President Woodruff 
favored the ladies with remarks upon the 
Society which were greatly appreciated. 
Those who in any way assisted many feel 
compensated in the results of the under-
taking socially and financially, and to those 
who helped on the program the heartfelt 
thanks of the President herself and the en- 
tire Society are due, and even the day itself 
was all that could be desired. 
Our sisters will perhaps feel more the 
importance of sustaining the "Exponent" 
when they learn that the Woman's Depart-
ment of the great Exposition at Hague has 
solicited a complete file of the paper to be 
sent them from its publication in 1872; but 
feeling what that would mean to prepare 
all the volumes and send them such a 
distance, we prepared two books, one con-
taining the entire volumes of 25 and 26 
from June 1896 to June 1892- also one 
book containing a few miscellaneous num-
bers from each of teh 26 volumes. These 
were bound in soft leather with gilt let-
tering and sent by mail to Dr. Aletta H.
Jacobs who has charge of this department. 
We also forwarded one copy of our poems 
"Musings and Memories." Dr. Jacobs 
in response says she feels they should have 
had the complete set of the papers - and 
that we must prepare them for the 
World's Exposition in Paris in 1900. We 
hope the sisters will not feel after this 
that the "Exponent" is of little or no con-
sequence.


