[Column 2]
here and there the homes of the Saints.
Some spots are truly picturesque. After a
night’s rest at Bishop Pond’s hospitable
home we drive to the Grove. The meet-
ings are well attended, about six hundred
Saints present who picnic there between
the meetings, all so happy and generous.
The harvest is bounteous. For miles and
miles on either side of the road the wheat
on dry farms is very heavy and abundant.
Some of the party exclaim:"It is mar-
velous!” If the world could but see such
grain raised without a drop of water, they
would say the day of miracles was not past.
Everywhere it is the same, the earth is
yielding in her strength for the sustenance
of man. July 24 in the forenoon another
Stake of Zion is formed named the Bannock
while the old Bannock is changed to Fre-
mont. Thus Zion spreads and grows.
President Lewis S. Pond is chosen Presi-
dent of the new Stake.
	The afternoon service is devoted to a
Memorial for the Martyrs of the Maine.
The story of the treachery that led to their
death was eloquently told by Prof. Hick-
man of Preston. The Sabbath day and
the theme are affecting. In this solemn
quiet, far away from the busy marts of men,
in this grove of poplar trees, the world
with its treachery seems very far away.
Choice music interspersed with national
airs was rendered by the Oneida Stake
choir under the efficient leadership of Prof.
Edwards. A talented young lady, Miss
Elva, the daughter of Bishop Parkinson of
of Preston, feelingly recited the poem,
“Hispania” under the floating stars and
stripes. A generous sum was given for
the monument
	July 25 impressive addresses by Apostles
Merrill, Grant and Cowley, also President
S. B. Young of the First Quorum of Seven-
ties, and Patriarch John Smith.
	President George C. Parkinson feelingly
bade the Saints goodbye over whom he had
been presiding so long; love was the bur-
den of his words, while God’s blessing was
invoked on them forever.

	The world is full of sad “Good Byes,”
		And often falls the parting tear;
	Our lives are changed, our hearts are numb,
		Old paths diverging here.

	And now farewell to our friends in Gen-
tile Valley, as we turn our faces homeward.
A sense of gratitude wells up in the heart
to God for His love and care over us, and
thanksgiving that we are safely home once
more.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
