[Column 2]
old extremes in relation to these things 
have given place to new ones, which in 
many respects are as bad or worse for lack 
of restraint than the former were for undue 
restriction. Fathers are no longer looked 
up to as leaders, or even as counselors in 
many homes; and mothers who fail by 
word and example in doing their part to in-
stil into their children’s minds and hearts 
due respect for their fathers, will also fail 
in retaining the respect which as mothers 
they should have a right to expect from their
children.
	The children certainly have rights also, 
which should be as carefully guarded by 
the parents as their own. And one of 
these sacred rights is the right to be wisely 
disciplined, and taught during infancy and 
childhood the beautiful home lessons which 
every mother should delight in teaching, 
those lessons of the heart rather than of 
the head. 
	First of all to know God as being truly 
our Father in Heaven. Yes, first to know 
God. I believe the baby may with its 
very first awakening to understanding, 
draw from its mother’s breast the spirit of 
faith and love and trust with its daily 
nourishment. The spirit of prayer, which 
with infant breath may be wafted to the 
Heavenly Presence and recognized, even 
before the lips can lisp the first syllable. 
Thus the education commenced before birth 
(if begun aright) goes on without cessa-
tion. 
	The next lesson after prayer, I believe, 
should be unselfishness. With these two 
lessons firmly established in the child’s
heart and mind, all the other matters per-
taining to the highest home education will 
follow in their courses easily and naturally. 
It is perfectly natural for an unselfish per-
son to be polite. The Golden Rule, “To
do to others as you would be done unto,”
is all there is to true politeness. And yet 
politeness has so much to do in each life. 
	To be able to lay self aside and study the 
interest of others, finding joy in so doing, is
indeed one of the highest attainments to 
which mortals can hope to reach. And yet 
it really is among the first and most im- 
portant lessons which can be placed before 
the child. 
	If there is anything in the world that a 
mother might be justified in allowing her-
self to be a little selfish over, it is the love 
and confidence of her children. Yet even 
in this she must be particularly guarded, 
or she will make mistakes which will bring 
regrets instead of pleasure. In taking all
the parental care and responsibilities which 
legitimately belong to her (and they form 
no mean portion) a mother must be very 
exact in the measurements of many im-
portant items, which will be submitted for 
her consideration, lest she trespass upon 
the rights of that superior adviser, that 
lawful head of the household, the father of 
her children.
	A son, perhaps in all the freshness and 
glory of early manhood, comes to his moth-
er with a question of more than usual im-
portance which he is impatient to have set-
tled at once. He takes her in his arms, as 
she used to do by him before he had grown 
taller, heavier and stronger than herself. 
The thought of the changed condition 
brings a happy, grateful feeling to both 
mother and son. Then he urges the neces-
sity of an immediate decision being made.
Kisses her and pleads again that she will 
no longer hesitate, but answer the question

[Column 3]
which means so much to them. She might
answer him “yes” or “no” thinking to
preserve the dignity her son accords to her
by making her his counselor. But, to
maintain the proper order in the home
government, and once more to impress up-
on the mind of her faithful boy, the weigh-
ty lesson which she has so often repeated to
him, of looking to his parental head for
the solution of all such important and diffi-
cult questions, she says, “I must not
answer this, my son; I’ll tell you what we
will do to get the correct answer. We will
both of us pray unitedly that your father
may be inspired to give you the right coun-
sel in regard to this matter. And we must
be satisfied with what he shall say about it.
Give him his own time to consider the sub-
ject, and make up your mind that what he
decides will be the best for you, now and
always, and it will never fail you.” If the
mother had felt before hand that such a
declaration would be lessening her influence
with her son by pointing him to higher
authority than her own, the feeling does
not remain afterwards. She has done her
duty both to her child and his father, and
her reward is in the satisfaction she feels
over it.
	And when a few days later the father’s
decision is given, and proves to be the same
that her own must have been, and their
boy, though greatly disappointed, says
manfully, “That settles it!” and with a
heroism which the parents had scarcely
dared hope for in their boy, he throws off
the old “idea” as soon as possible, and with-
out giving any one trouble over it, inter-
ests himself in whatever the rest of the
household are interested in, that mother
feels a thousand times repaid for any sacri-
fice she has ever made for that boy. But
there are mothers and boys who do not have
such happy terminations to some of their
knotty questions.
	We mothers sometimes have much to
grieve over in our children that might be
avoided, if every household would form it-
self into a “Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion,” for the purpose of home education.
In such an organization the tiniest tot that
could speak as well as the parents, grand-
parents, older children, hired help, and
every resident in the home would be learn-
ing daily lessons of usefulness and happiness
superior in some respects to any lesson that
may be learned at school.
