[Column 2]
often bear the sisters testify of miracles
and things of the past. When we come
here in two weeks cannot we testify of our
desires to do good, of those things we have
done, of healings and other things? not
those things that occurred years ago."
Said she would like to talk longer but did
not wish to trespass on the time.
Sister Elizabeth Stevenson spoke of our
dear aged sisters whose teachings we are
privileged to listen to; of their intelligence,
faith and good works of the prophet turn-
ing the key for woman. She had visited
Sevier and Tooele Stakes and felt thankful
for the good sisters in those places. Bore a
strong testimony and said many good
things.
Sister Horne said that the Gospel com-
prehends everything that is good and true,
we have everything in our religion. We
have women among us who do not wish to
attend spiritual meetings. The women of
Zion should be at the head. As for those
outside organizations they are all right in
their place. We should not desire to
spread out beyond the pale of the Church.
Singing, and benediction by Sister Mary
P. Silver.

Minutes of Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th ward Assembly hall, July
16, 1898, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Singing “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Clara C. Cannon. Singing “ ’Mid
scenes of confusion.” President Horne
laid before the sisters the advisability of
the Society getting up an excursion to
Saltair. Mr. Meakin was present and pre-
liminary arrangements were made for the
affair.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and approved.
President Horne said she was getting
stronger and better every day, felt that it
was one of the miracles of these latter days.
We could enjoy more of these miracles if we
lived for them, for our religion contained
everything both for this life and the here-
after. Spoke of the Mothers’ Congress,
said there was much that was said that was
eloquent. Spoke of the organization of the
Church, quoted a saying of the Prophet
Joseph, also of the Savior in which women
bore a very prominent part. Many of the
sayings of the prophet reminded her of the
Savior’s.
Sister Julia Sampson testified God heard
and answered prayers, even as He had
promised. Exhorted all to be faithful and
humble.
President Horne said she wished to mi-
press upon the people to lift up their hearts
in thanksgiving to God for the victory of
our soldiers, said it is an unknown thing in
history, also that God would preserve our
sons who had gone forth to battle. Felt
that God was in the conflict.
Sister Julia C. Howe spoke of a lecture
she had attended two weeks ago today in
the Logan Temple, in which the subject
was the gathering of the Jews.
Remarks were made by Sisters Mary L.
Morris, Barnes and Bassett. Closing re-
marks were made by President Horne who
said she would like every Society president
to act as a committee so that our excursion
might be a success. Monday August 1,
was decided upon as the day.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by E.T. Webb.

