LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall June 18, 1898, President M. I. Horne
presiding. Singing “For the strength of
the hills we bless thee.” Prayer by Siste


[Column 1]
Margaret O. Brown. Singing “Welcome
best of all good meetings." Reading of
minutes unavoidably omitted.
President Horne said she was thankful
She was with us today after the accident
she had met with. As she was falling out
of the carriage she thought about so many
aged people dying by accidents lately. 
Brother Lyman had told her that her time
had not come yet. She was very glad to
have Sister Zina and Sister Kimball with
us and hoped something would be said that
would strengthen us. These meetings
were organized that we might speak one to
another and not be afraid, this is the work
of God, we are his children, we are here to
keep our bodies clean, to be pure and un
spotted from the world. We need to get
spiritual food, live our religion and keep
the commandments of God. 
Sister Brown often thought what bless-
ings we enjoyed and that these meetings
were a great blessing to the sisters, spoke
of her labors in the Temple and said her
heart was full of joy and thankfulness for
her many blessings.
Sister Smith was glad to see Sister
Young and Sister Kimball and hoped that
Sister Horne might recover entirely from
her accident. Said neither she nor her fam-
ly ever went on pleasure excursions on Sun-
day.
Sister Pixton thought we might serve
the Lord one day in the week, we might
prepare our food on Saturday and do less
cooking on Sunday. We should set a good
example for our children and neighbors.
Sister Kimball had once counseled the sis-
ters to take time to read, and she had fol-
lowed the advice and had taken much pleas-
ure in reading papers and Church works.
Sister Louisa Wright bore her testimony
and said that it was. the first time that she
had spoken here.
Sister Steel thought it was time for her
to speak. She never enjoyed other meet-
ings as much as these, we always have a
good spirit, this was the reason she liked to
come. We should do the Lord’s business
first then we will be blest
Sister Ann Hardy said she had never
doubted this work, was a stranger here
from Mexico, she always came here to
meeting when she could. She came to this
valley in early days, had seen the varied
changes the people had gone through.
Bore a faithful testimony.
Sister Zina D. H. Young said it was now
nearly thirty years’ since these meetings
were organized by President Young. We
come here to get spiritual food; we are one;
we have the Holy Ghost with us and we
are learning to appreciate heaven. Our
children know when we attend to our
duties. We should pray to have our mem-
ories strengthened and that we may never
be ungrateful for the blessings we enjoy.
We have to make sacrifices. She had en-
joyed meeting the few present who had
braved the storm to get here.
Sister Sarah Kimball was glad to be
here. Said it was love that prompted us
to bless her and the sisters. The first
grand organization of women was intro-
duced by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the
great blessings that have come to women
have been through him; eventually they
will give credit where credit is due. Spoke
of the organizations of women, of Lucretia
Mott, the present Mothers’ Congress, and
their work. “Have we lived up to our ad-
vantages? I do not often get to meeting,
when I do I go hungry to be fed. We

