[Column 2]
Nightingale and her devoted followers dur-
ing the Crimean war; and the American
Sanitary Commission during our own Civil
War, we might say, took the initiative; al-
though they were not really the originators.
There existed at that time an instinctive
feeling that hospital and ambulance nurses
and doctors should ever stand on mutual
ground and remain as sacred as the white
flag of truce to all nations.
	During the battle of Solferino in Italy,
Dr. Henry Durrant and his friend, Gustave
Moyner, were eye witnesses of the horrors
of the battle field, and with these benevolent
and self-sacrificing men the idea first found
definite shape; but it was not until Febru-
ary 1863, that Dr. Durrant presented the
subject to the society at Geneva, Switzer-
land; suggesting that in times of peace
societies be formed for the much needed re-
lief of the wounded when war should again
break out. This resulted in appointing a
committee to consider and examine into the
merits of the case, then after much consider-
ation and discussion an international con-
ference was called for the next October,
which in turn resulted in the calling of an
international congress for the following
year. At this conference the original arti-
cles of the Geneva convention were adopted
which in substance were as follows:
	1—For the neutrality of ambulances and
military hospitals as long as they contain
any sick.
	2—For that of their staff.
	3—That the neutrality of these persons
shall continue after occupation of their hos-
pitals by the enemy, so they may stay or
depart as they choose.
	4—That if they depart they can take
only their private property with them ex-
cept in case of ambulances which they may
remove entire.
	5—That a sick soldier in a house shall be
counted a protection to it and entitles its
occupants to the exemption to the quarter-
ing of troops and from part of the war re-
quisitions.
	6—That wounded men shall when cured
be sent back to their own country on condi-
tion of their not bearing arms for the rest
of the war.
	7—That hospitals and ambulances shall
carry in addition to the flag of their own
nation a distinctive and uniform flag bearing
a red cross on a white ground, and that
their staff shall wear an arm badge of the
same colors.
	8—That the details shall be left to their
commanders.
	Out of compliment to the Swiss govern-
ment, which called the first congress, their
national flag was adopted with the colors
reversed; their flag being red with a white
cross.
	It is quite humiliating to our national
conceit and the much boasted humanity
of America that she was one of the last to
adopt the provisions of the Red Cross,
while Spain was one of the first twelve na-
tions represented at the Geneva convention.
America was even behind Turkey and Per-
sia. The honored twelve are Switzerland,

[Column 3]
Baden, Belgium, Denmark, Spain, Holland,
France, Hesse, Italy, Portugal, Prussia
and Wirtemburg.
	The plan adopted arranged for an inter-
national committee to propagate the move-
ment, and that each nation should on its
own accord arrange for a national Red
Cross Society. It was also agreed that an
international conference of all nations inter-
ested should be held every four years to
consider amendments, and as circumstances
and conditions demanded enlarge and im-
prove upon the original idea.
	In 1868 the first quadrennial was held in
Geneva, amendments were made extending
its benefits to maritime warfare, also reserving
the right to suspend these advantages even
till the end of the war where it is known
that these privileges have been abused, and
at least until the contrary is proven.
	This is the foundation upon which the
great Red Cross of today is erected Chang-
es in detail have occasionally been made
and signed by the nations concerned; but
only two of much importance have been
made. The first, proposed by Russia, pro-
vides “that all persons abusing the privileges
of the Red Cross in times of war be treated
as spies and summarily dealt with.” The
other is known as the civil branch, or the
American amendment, and was introduced
by our own Clara Barton, whose illustrious
name is intimately associated with the Red
Cross movement. It seems that it took a
woman’s far-reaching, unselfish nature to
devise such a code of reasoning as we find
in this amendment; which provides for the
extension of this relief work of the Red
Cross in all national calamities such as
floods, fire, famine, pestilence and all dis-
asters of sufficient gravity and magnitude
to be considered of national importance.
	But it was not until within a very recent
period that this usually wide awake nation
was aroused by the appeals of suffering
humanity; notwithstanding these appeals
were repeatedly represented by her own un-
daunted daughter, Clara Barton, who has per-
sistently and unflinchingly plodded ever
onward as only those can who work for the
benefit of others, her great aim being to
palliate the woes and relieve the ills of all
suffering humanity, and today she stands
as the leading Red Cross character of the
world.
	During the Civil war her services were of
incalculable value to the government in as-
sisting the Sanitary Commission, especially
in the medical department; and how her
gentle heart must have been touched by
the suffering she witnessed! In speaking
of that war she says: “It had no ray of
this fraternal light,” meaning the Red
Cross. “The great commissions rose and
performed a work of relief hitherto un-
known, but from lack of military recogni-
tion their best efforts comparatively failed,
and for lack of permanent organizations
their future possibilities were lost to the
world.”
	One of Clara Barton’s greatest acheive-
ments, and no doubt a labor attended with
the greatest anxiety, was the war she waged
with her own nation, wherein for fifteen


[Column 1]
years she maintained her ground, plead-
ing with Congress to endorse this grand
and far-reaching relief work the Red Cross,
which had already been recognized by near-
ly every other civilized nation, even barbar-
ic Spain. At last she became desperate and
as we say in medicine, she took a heroic
position, and organized a Red Cross Society
of her own, and was elected president in
1881. This decisive movement was fol-
lowed by the first gleam of hope from the
National Capital, for in the same year
President Authur gave the Red Cross favor-
able mention in his message to Congress.
Soon after the numerous petitions and doc-
uments she had presented to Congress and
that had for years been laying in the State
department, were brought to light and sub-
mitted to congressional consideration, and
finally on March 16, 1882, it was honored
by that influential body, only eighteen
years after Spain had given her recognition.
	But not until a very recent period—since
the beginning of the present war—neither
the United States nor Spain had endorsed
more than the ten original articles of the
Geneva convention, the amendments of
1868 had not all been formally accepted.
	The Swiss Government has since its first
organization been the tender nurse of the
Red Cross, and during the Franco-Prussian
war was brought about the formal provi-
sional adoption of these amendments by
both countries.
	In the beginning of the present war the 
Swiss ministers at Madrid and Washington
suggested to each other that the principles
of the Red Cross in their entirety be form-
ally adopted. And it is a peculiar coinci-
dence that both the Spanish and American
nations on May 9, 1898, announced to the
Swiss ministers at Washington that they
would each adhere to the Red Cross princi-
ples,
	Thus we find this grand humanitarian
plan is now in full force with the conflict-
ing nations, and it is hoped that both will
hold sacred this beautiful ensign of allevia-
tion, the Red Cross flag.
	Since writing the above the world has
learned more of treacherous Spain and is
surprised with her cruelty and disregard of
a religious and most sacred compact. Dur-
ing that terrific battle in the present
month at Santiago de Cuba while the
whole world was trembling with agonizing
suspense—while the friends of those fight-
ing heroes were soothed somewhat with the
thoughts that their loved ones would at
least have the protection of the Red Cross—
just think even beneath its fluttering folds
physicians were shot down while engaged
in caring for the wounded and dying. And
soldiers while crawling painfully, seeking
places of succor and shelter had the fleeting
rays of life extinguished by Spanish bullets.
Well may we cry shame upon such inhu-
manity! Shame upon a nation that can so
soon forget its sacred obligations! But let us
close our eyes to these atrocities and rather
dwell upon the beneficent work of the Red
Cross in the last quarter of a century. It
is certainly one of the greatest triumphs of
civilization and the financial outlook is
stupendous. During the Franco-Russian
war the German Red Cross collected and
expended thirteen million dollars, while
the French and English spent two million
more, and the Swiss Red Cross at the evac-
uation of Strasburg fed and sheltered thirty
thousand French refugees. During the
Franco-Russian war the Red Cross was at

