[Column 2]
way the Elders travel, as the subject of the
incident is the traveling Church historian,
I will simply state it is the first incident of
its kind in Samoa that our president has
ever heard of; although we have rains that
fully convey the sense of pouring and bliz-
zards accompanying them to make it more
severe, yet such an act would not for one
moment be countenanced in the Samoan
mission. Contrary wise the Elders are
very, very particular about their person
and dress, remarkably neat considering the
class of people they labor among. I have
no wish to criticise the writer, but simply to
state facts is the reason why I have men-
tioned these things.
	Conditions make differences in the meth-
od of proclaiming the Gospel. For instance,
the Savior’s command to His apostles that
they should go forth and preach without
purse or scrip is impossible in some coun-
tries on account of laws forbidding it.
Holding outdoor meetings in Samoa is not
necessary as in America, for there is always
a house that the earnest Elder may have
for the simple asking for it. Although
Samoa has been termed barbaric which
warrants ignorance on the part of the in-
stigator, Samoan civilization has some of
the characteristics of an ideal community.
Seldom indeed a young man is found who
cannot read or write, and from a narrative
point of view knows Genesis to Revelation
with considerable clearness, yet doctrinally
their views are rather shallow. The method
of proclaiming the Gospel in Samoa is left to
the good judgment of every Elder. Tracts
are distributed and house to house visits
are made. When a chief or man of author-
ity embraces the Gospel he is generally the
beginner of the Church in that village.
He builds a house with the assistance of
the Elder in which meetings are held on
Sunday and generally one during the week.
The house also is the home of the Elder.
A school is commenced with great num-
bers for the first few days. All novelties
have their followers. The English lan-
guage is a coveted gem on Samoa. School
dwindles down to a very few; generally
the children who stay embrace the Gospel
and many times have been the means of
bringing their parents into the Church.
	Four churches are established on Samoa.
Faiti, which came first, is the Lutheran
church; the Toga, because it came from
Toga, is the Wesleyan church; the Catholic;
and last and fewer in number is the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Much
bitterness is manifested towards us by the
teachers of villages as one by one the sheep
over which they are man-made shepherds
hear the voice of the Good Shepherd and
follow Him, thereby lessening their flocks,
and increasing the fold of Christ. Out of
the population of 30,000 on Samoa upwards
of 1,000 have embraced the Gospel.
	There are at present twenty-seven Elders
and three sisters laboring on the islands of
Samoa. A great field is open for our sis-
ters in teaching the people the art of dress,
as they are very careless about their person.
A taste must be cultivated for neatness;
Spencer says that ornamentation precedes
dress. This does not seem to be verified
with the Samoans, usefulness seems to be
their paramount consideration in clothing.
As to their homes they could be very much
improved in neatness and convenience.
This can only be done by rearing their chil-
dren and instilling into them entirely new
ideas concerning home life. I have had a

[Column 3]
class in sewing and crochet work, they
"pick it up" very readily, it gives me great
delight to start them in this work. Crude
as are the results, yet all reformations have
small beginnings. I hope an evolution
will be carried on until we have them carry-
ing that glorious banner—Civilization in its
true meaning.
Your sister on Samoa,
