ELIZABETH COON.
	SISTER ELIZABETH COON was the daughter of
William Pernarder Parker Farbrough, and was
born in Calhoun Mont. Co. Tennessee, Dec. 22,
1818. After her marriage with the late Abraham
Coon they moved to Green Co. Illinois, where she
embraced the Gospel in 1839, Elders Parley P.
Pratt and William E. McLellan were the first to
introduce the Gospel to her and to her husband
which they gladly embraced and left their beauti-
ful home in Green Co. and moved to Hancock
Co. Illinois where they shared in the trials of the
great exodus from Nauvoo to Winter Quarters.
Sister Coon drove her own team all the way and
became quite an expert in yoking and unyoking
her cattle. Brother Coon having been made a
Bishop to take charge of some forty families that


were left without husband and father, the men
having gone in the Mormon Battalion. Sister
Coon was often at a loss to know how to assist
her husband, in providing for the destitute but
they never let any one go from their door hungry,
the Lord always opened up the way before them
that they had something to assist the needy.
The family came to Utah in 1850 and settled in the
16th, Ward in this City, where they remained. A
few days before Sister Coon’s death she went to
stay with one of her daughters Sister Rachel
Cooley of Mendon, Cache Co., she had the oppor-
tunity of attending the dedication services in the
Salt Lake Temple which had always been
promised to her to see the Temple completed,
this was the happiest day of her life and she re-
joiced greatly. Sister Coon was a woman of great
faith and sterling integrity and she leaves a name
and memory long and affectionately to be
cherished by her numerous posterity.
	Brother Coon died some years previous leaving
her a widow, but she has gone to join him and no
doubt there was a happy reunion.
	Sister Coon leaves nearly two hundred children
grand children and great-grand children to
mourn her loss. She departed this life after much
suffering, which she bore with great patience and
fortitude, Jan. 15, 1894, at the residence of her
daughter, Sister Frances Hardman, Pleasant
Green, Salt Lake County Utah. "Blessed are
the dead that die in the Lord, yea, they rest from
their labors and their works do follow them.”
	E H.


