UTAH AND STATEHOOD.
Utah is on the verge of statehood, at
last after years of intercession, and with
every condition in her favor during many
long years of waiting, behold the tide has
turned and the Chief Executive of the
Republic has signed the enabling act
passed by the Congress of the United
States. On the 16th day of July 1894—a
day memorable because of the stroke of a
pen, that will bring greater freedom and
liberty to the people in these mountain
fastnesses and vales. Let all rejoice in the
prospect statehood offers, more especially if
it makes all citizens equal irrespective of
sex. Only a simple act of justice to one
half of the community who are taxed with-
out representation, and who are as justly
entitled to partake of the advantages and
benefits arising from statehood as are their
sons whom they have reared, or their
brothers with whom they have shared the
hardships and toil of building up a com-
munity in a desert land.
	Utah has more resources and brighter
prospects for future greatness than any of
the Territories in the West, these facts are
well known to those who have honestly
investigated the matter. No truer patriots
either men or women can be found than
the people of Utah. No braver, grander
or more thoughtful young men and
women, no wiser, or more lofty-minded
and high-souled veterans than the pioneers
and colonizers, who have made the country
habitable for their children, and those who
have come to dwell within the borders of
fair Utah. History will yet record in
glowing terms the works of these valiant
men and women. But whether that is
done or not their works speak for them and
testify more strongly than the pen can ever
do. Look at Utah as she is today and re-
call the vision of the past when desolate
and barren, without vegetation, sage brush
grease wood and alkali beds met the eyes
of the worn and weary pioneers of 47.
Behold the contrast! Without money but
with industry, energy, and effort almost
superhuman, habitations were reared, or-
chards, and fields were planted, water was
brought from the mountain streams, and
the face of the land was changed, not by
magic, but by the sweat of the brow of the
laboring men. And women too bore their
share of the burdens of daily toil, they
were not found wanting in courage, in in-
dustry, nor in endurance. Young women
who today are grandmothers helped will-
ingly. patiently, with the heaviest bur-
dens and scarcity of food; yet never mur-
mured at their lot, glad to be useful, proud
and happy to lighten the hearts and lessen
the labors of fathers and husbands. Do
they deserve consideration in the new
state? Most assuredly! With equal political
rights.
If the men of Utah do this simple act of
justice knowing as most of them must
know that it is the right and proper thing
to do, having the courage of their con-
victions, the coming generations will look
back with pride upon their record, for the
trend of all education and sentiment is to-
wards political equality, and it is bound to
come, therefore why not Utah be among
the progressive communities where she
should be? And certainly there is not a state
or territory where such a large number of
women own their own homes and farms and
pay their own taxes, and have entered land
in their own names, and have engaged in
business enterprises of various kinds, even
in buying and selling real estate.
	The educational interests of any and all
states naturally are, and necessarily must
be, in the hands of women and the mothers,
and especially in these departments they
shoud have equal opportunity with men
both to say and to do. The destinies
of the nations are influenced by the mothers
we are told, then let them have every
advantage, civil and political to become
qualified for the high and holy callings they
are expected to fill.
	Much of the opposition to suffrage (for
there are no arguments against it) comes
from the attitude of women who have all
the rights they want and are protected; but
if it is better for society, better for a
community that men and women stand
side by side and vote together, then wis-
dom and patriotism demand it, and should,
decide the question.
	The Constitution of Utah should have
no flaws, it should be the best ever framed
by any body of men, and the best men
should be selected as Delegates, men
eminent for their fitness, and as Miss
Anthony says let it be “ the best basis for a
state ever engrossed on parchment! ”


