	HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

	THE 7th of April, 1894, was a bright
lovely day upon the sunny Isles of the sea,
and how happy all were to think we were
thus highly favored with good weather
when our little folks were to assemble in
general conference of the islands. It was
indeed a beautiful sight to witness the
“Hope of Israel” bedecked in bright
colored ribbons and wearing gay badges
bearing the inscription “Hui Kamalii,”
(Primary Association.) The girls were in
white with beautiful wreaths of flowers up-
on their heads, and the boys neat, and
respectably clad wore wreaths upon their
hats.
	The divisions were separated by a num-
ber of bright banners and flags bearing ap-
propiate mottoes. The whole in appearance
resembling a portable flower garden out on a
parade, the flowers distilling perfume in the
passing breeze and imparting a delightful
fragrance all around. The services were
called to order by Counselor Maggie
Davis. The children sang “O come
children come,” prayer was offered by
Master Naihe. Singing, “Little children
love each other.” Roll called and minutes
of previous conference read and approved.
	Financial report was read by Sister Davis.
A Letter from President Libbie Noall to the
Association was read by Sister Makanve.
The following programme was then
creditably rendered by the children, evinc-
ing care and study in the preparation
and reflecting praise upon the labors of the
Sisters.
	Bible Sentiment by the Association,
Opening Address, Hattie Kekuku; Song
Greeting, a number of little girls; Dia-
logue, Sam Kii and Richard Kalili; Recita-
tions, Pua and Kepa; Song “A Mormon
Boy,” Hamana Kalili. Manuscript Paper,
“Hope of the youth,” Victoria Nainoa.
Questions and Answers on the “Life of
Christ,” by the Association. Song “Little
drops of water.” Recitation, Iva Kekuku;
Song, “Our Father in Heaven” translated
and sung by a number of little girls;
Recitations by Mauna, Sam Kii, and Rich-
ard. Song, “Beautiful Day of Peace and
rest,” translated and sung by the large
girls. Song, “I’ll be a little Mormon” by
the boys.
	The general officers at home and the
local officers here were then unanimously
sustained. A few encouraging and in-
structive remarks were then made by Elders
Davis and Duffin. A donation was then
given by the parents for the Association to
aid in the instrnction of their children.
The conference was then adjourned for six
months by singing the “Primary March”
and prayer by Wallace Brown.
	The sisters assembled in Relief Society
Conference of the Islands, Counselor Mag-
gie Davis presiding. After the usual
opening exercises the financial and statisti-
cal reports were read showing 468 members
21 branches reported, 7 not reported, num-
ber of meetings held 332, cash receipts for
six months $310.60, disbursed to charitable
purposes $142,75 cash on hand $168.85.
	A letter of instructions and encourag-
ment from President Libbie Noall was read
by Sister Makanoe expressing regret, for
not, being able to be present at the confer-
ence. Reports were heard from the
societies on this and adjacent Islands by
either officers or representatives of the dif-
ferent branches, all bearing good testimonies
to the Gospel and expressing a desire to
perform their part in the work of the Lord
placed upon them. The reports were in-
terspersed with singing and other exercises.
A sketch by Sister Makanoe of the different
societies organized among Hawaiin women
being particularly interesting. Sisters
Davis and Harmon gave good instructions
to the sisters and encouraged each to be
faithful in the performance of their duties.
	General and Local Officers were sus-
tained and with singing and prayer meet-
ing was adjourned for six months.
	Much energetic labor has been performed
among the societies in the different branches,
instructing them in what is required of
both officers and members, referring them
to the teachings of Joseph the Prophet and
to the “Letter of Instructions” issued for
their benefit
	Each society has been visited and some
changes made in officers which we hope
will prove for the better.
	On the 28th of May, a Primary Associ-
ation was organized in the branch of
Honolulu with a membership of about
thirty five bright little children. The of-
ficers are Makanoe, President, Kakoe and
Annie Kauluko Counselors; Keonohe,
Secretary; Kana, Assistant Secretary;
Makanoe, Treasurer.
	Our desires as missionary sisters are to
accomplish much good to our sisters who
have been less favored than ourselves, and
the words of our Savior are verified wherin
He says, that “they that be whole need not a
physician but they that are sick.”
						       E. D. M.

