JOSEPHINE STREEPER CHASE.

	THE funeral obsequies of the late Josephine
Streeper Chase were attended at the family
residence in Centerville, Davis County, July 23,
1894.
	Her death, which occurred on the evening of
the 20th, at her home, was sudden and unexpected.
She was the daughter of William and Matilda
Wells Streeper, born May 6th, 1835, in the city of
Philadelphia. With her parents she removed
from there to Nauvoo in the spring of 1844, the
following year from there to St. Louis, and in the
year 1851 emigrated to Salt Lake City. About
the year 1855 she was married to George A.
Chase, and was the mother of 15 children—5 sons
and 10 daughters, 8 of whom, with 16 grand-
children, survived her.
	In the family circle her radiance of character
was not only superior, but seemed to approach
the sublime. As a wife, mother and teacher
she was adapted to each condition with un-
questioned ability. Her complete devotion to
the duties connected therewith was characterized
with that unselfish love that makes one more than
earthly in the estimation of those who were fav-
ored to share her kindly charities or taste the
sweets of her spiritual life. Her many years of
fervent and successful labors in the Sunday
school was a sphere of more than ordinary use-
fulness to the children of others, who will cherish
a loving remembrance of her through all their
lives. The delicate nature of her physical or-
ganization did not justify entering upon those
more public services in which her influence might
have been felt in a more extended field, but not
for a holier purpose than that which ever charac-
terized her efforts in the cultivation and develop-
ment of the youth of Zion.
	The numerous and earnest testimonies borne
of her on the occasion of her funeral obsequies
should satisfy both family, kindred and friends to
the drying of all tears, the dispelling of all grief,
and the yielding of all hearts to that joy which is
unspeakable, that
	With her the race of life well run
	Has joined her with her kindred throng,
	In mansions for her there prepared,
	With crowns of glory to be shared.
	The great number which attended her funeral,
among whom were Apostles, Presidents and
many prominent influential citizens, indicated the
high esteem in which she was held by all who
had her acquaintance, many of whom ac-
companied her remains to their last resting place,
and said in their hearts, “Rest, rest, to the weary
