NOTES OF W. S. A. WILLARD. 
	MRS. E. B. WELLS and Mrs. M. A.
Freeze by special invitation arrived at
Willard July 26 on the 4:20 train to hold a
W. S. A. meeting. 
	They were met at the depot by some of
the officers and driven to the residence of
the President where lunch was served in
honor of their coming, by the W. S. A.
	After having an enjoyable time all ad-
journed to the tabernacle where a public
meeting was held.
	The ladies were greeted with a very large
interested and appreciative audience, many
gentlemen being present.
	The meeting opened about 8:30 with
President Lottie Hubbard in the chair
Singing, Help the Working Women.
Prayer by Brother T. W. Brewerton, sing-
ing “Woman Arise.” Mrs. M. A. Freeze
was the firet speaker. Said we are all
interested, or should be, in the cause of
suffrage; from our association in these great
organizations, we are privileged to meet
with most educated and refined women of
the world in the Woman’s Congress and
Conventions. Woman did not realize
what a vast field was opening before her
when the prophet Joseph Smith turned
the key for woman in 1842.
	The association sang “Our God shall
lead us on.”
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was next introduced.
She had a great admiration for men but
would like all the political and civil rights
they enjoyed. Showed how the question
of Suffrage was being agitated all over the
United States. In the Woman’s Con-
gress of ’93, the whole trend was towards
equality. Referred to Miss Anthony’s
influence and popularity; gave illustrations
that showed women did not have all the
rights they wanted. Utah is entitled to
more Delegates to attend the Woman’s
Suffrage Convention than any other state
except New York.
	Mrs. Ray Evans of Brigham City gave a
sketch of their labors during the last six
months.
	The lady speakers were tendered a vote
of thanks for their merited efforts. Sing-
ing ‘‘New America.” Benediction Mr.
Homer Call.
	Following are names of officers. Lottie
Hubbard, President; Mary Harding, first
Vice President; Dora S. Dudley, second
Vice President; Ellen Ward, third Vice
President; Stella Cook, Rec. Sec. and
Treasurer; Esther Harding Ass’t. Sec. and
Cor. Sec.; Maria Zundell, Chairman Ex.
Com.; Jennie Hubbard, Nancy Harding,
Emma J. Davis, Maggie Henderson, mem-
bers of Executive Committee, Dora S.
Dudley, Organist; Esther Harding, Ass’t.
Organist.


