CALIFORNIA WOMEN A  POWER.

	A SUCCESSION of Congresses auxiliary to
the Midwinter Fair held in San Francisco,
has shown, as nothing else could, the in-
tellectual strength of the women of Cali-
fornia. They rallied from every point of
the compass. Their voices were heard with
“no uncertain sound” in the Religious,
Woman’s Suffrage, Temperance, Christian
Science, and Equal Rights Congresses. The
themes discussed and papers read ranged
through the educational, moral, religious
and political world. The scenes at Chicago
have been repeated. Mind has asserted its
supremacy.
	Some of the best thinkers and most logical
of women have come into California, and
are becoming a power. I think there is
not a “stupid woman” in the State. Some
are eminently “clever” in the sense which,
among English folk, denotes intellectual
strength and ability to express it. At this
writing, the State Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion and the Equal Rights League of San
Francisco are in Convention in Union
Square Hall. The object is to consider
woman’s enfranchisement in its relation to
the present and future political condition of 
the country, and to arouse a more general
interest in this popular topic of the day.
Great enthusiasm prevails. The hall is
beautifully decorated with flags and flowers.
A significant picture upon the platform tells
the whole story of what incites our ardor
in this righteous cause. It represents a
group, of which the face of an intelligent
American woman is the central one, sur-
rounded by those of an Indian, a lunatic, a
convict and an idiot. Under the whole is
the legend, “The American Woman and
Her Political Peers.” In the rear of this
suggestive picture hang portraits of George
and Martha Washington, Abraham Lincoln,
Susan B. Anthony, and Elizabeth Cady
Stanton.
	Laura de Force Gordon, than whom none
is more forceful in argument, eloquent in
delivery, earnest in conviction, and cour-
ageous in expression, presides over the con-
vention. The leading dailies give faithful
reports of every occurrence, the themes dis-
cussed are re-discussed in many homes, and
the leaven of truth is working.
