EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Wednesday evening, August 8th, a
few ladies met at the parlors of Dr. R. B.
Pratt, in honor of her birthday anniversary;
many expressions of love and esteem
mingled with congratulations, were paid
her, and she was also congratulated upon
her courage, perseverance and success in
the medical profession; she having been
the first medical woman graduate from the
Territory. Doctor E. S. Barney a very
dear old friend of Dr. Pratt’s read a written
tribute which was very complimentary and
also prophetic. Many beautiful flowers
were presented, and a handsome volume of
Jean Ingelow’s Poems from the ladies of the
party. Mrs. Pratt’s mother was present
and shared in the congratulations, a won-
derfully well-preserved woman in her
eightieth year. Mrs. P. P. Pratt, Junior,
favored the company with some exquisite
piano music, choice and difficult selections
finely rendered. Mrs. Lizzie Shipp sang,
“The Bridge” in her sweet plaintive way.
Altogether it was a very pleasant social
affair. It is needless to add the refresh-
ments were plentiful and fully enjoyed by
all.
	MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG President of
the Relief Society returned from Canada on
Thursday August 9th, in excellent health
and spirits after having been absent a little
over six weeks. Mrs. Young reports
everything favorable in the organizations in 
Canada. She attended several meetings
and a conference of the sisters. There are
three branches of the Relief Society in that
locality, also Young Ladies’ Associations
and Primaries and the sisters are enjoying
their labors, and were of course delighted
to have a visit from Sister Young, who
always carries with her a cheerful spirit
and influence, and is greatly reverenced and
beloved by all those with and for whom
she labors, having the interest of Zion at
heart in all her numerous duties and the
responsibilities which devolve upon her.
The sisters here at home will be glad to
know that Sister Young is at home again
and brings good news from relatives and
friends. Brother and Sister W. B. Dougall


made a brief visit to Canada recently com-
ing back at the same time, also W. B. Jun.,
and their daughter Catharine.


