A TRIP THROUGH CALIFORFIA.

	THE Womans Nat. Press Association left
San Francisco May 8th via Donahue R. R.
by invitation of. Mr. A. W. Foster, Presi-
dent of the Road, and Mr. H. C. Whiting,
General Manager. We were accompanied
Mr. R. Ryan, General Passenger Agent,
he was one of our entertainers during our
trip and to him we owe many thanks for
much of our pleasure.
	After a delightful sail on the Bay we ar-
rived at Tiburon, where a special train was
in waiting to convey us to Cloverdale. We
passed many beautiful fruit farms, lovely
villages and a country whose beauty can-
not be surpassed. Its acres of emerald
green are dotted with the gorgeous wild
flowers known only to California.
	The road is one finely constructed and
equipped with luxurious coaches; one
could easily fancy herself reclining in
an easy chair in her own parlor. The air
was mild and balmy, so much so that the
consumptive who was with us said “her
cough had left her and she felt that if she
could stay in the delightful atmosphere, she
could live forever.”
	At 12:20 p. m. we arrived at Cloverdale, a
pretty town situated among the hills at the
upper end of Russian Valley. On our ar-
rival we were met at the station by Mrs.
and Mr. Monihan, Prop’rs of the United
States Hotel whose guests we were during
our stay before, and after returning from
the Geysers. This hotel is a commodious
brick building and the only first class house
in Cloverdale. We were surprised to find
telephonic communication with the Geysers
eighteen miles distant. We earnestly
recommend this hotel to tourists.
	Cloverdale is particularly desirable for
invalids on account of its equable and
salubrious climate.
	After a refreshing night’s rest we were
awakened by the call “All aboard for the
Geysers.” Six four-horse stages were
waiting to convey us up the mountain side
past the grandest and most beautiful scenery
any of us had ever looked upon. Mr.
Charles Martin Humbert, owner of the
stage line, handled the reins on one of the
stages, and for this occasion, became our
driver as well as host. Stage riding which
heretofore had been a terror to me, proved
in this, case a most delightful means of

[Column 2]
transporation through the mountains where
a glorious vision met our view at every
turn.
	As we drew near our destination we
notice a strong odor of sulphur and catch a
glimpse of a large frame building nestled
in a garden of flowers, shadowed by
majestic trees. Major H. A. Powell, of
San Francisco, owner of the hotel and
geysers, was our host during our stay and
accompanied us through the Geysers, giv-
ing us a complete history of the many
springs and their wonders which are be-
yond description. To Major Powell, our
genial host we owe many thanks.
	After a pleasant journey by stage and
rail we arrive at the Redwoods at 10:30 a
m. After viewing the beauties of the
gigantic trees, which tower hundreds of
feet above our heads and fill us with awe
at the wonders of nature and the goodness
of God—we gather many flowers and ferns
which were as diminutive in size as the
trees are large beyond conception, to any
one who has never seen them.
	At 12 o’clock sharp the signal was given
for all to gather round the banqueting
board. The lunch was furnished us by
the officials of the Donahue road and would
have done credit to Delmonico. Wines
and good things too innumerable to mention
were provided. After doing justice to the
elaborate spread, the W. N. P. A. song was
sung, followed by the grand old hymn
“Praise God from whom all blessings
flow.”
	The setting sun witnessed our return to
Cloverdale en route to Santa Rosa to take
part in the rose festival as the guests of the
city of Santa Rosa.
	The following morning our eyes were
greeted with a view of such floral beauty
as we had never seen before, the grand
staircase of our hotel was one mass of
roses and ferns, each guest found her room
a perfect bower of roses. The elaborate
decoration of the city made it seem like
one grand flower garden—the people had
given themselves up to pleasure and
hospitality.
	At four o’clock, the last day of our visit,
the citizens had brought out their private
carriages for the pleasure of the Press As-
sociation; behind fast horses we were shown
the beauties of the city and surrounding
country.
	Santa Rosa, fifty odd miles from San
Francisco, is the County Seat of Sonoma
County, and is a thriving business place,
has handsome public buildings, beautiful
parks and many fine homes. We predict
that in a few years it will be second to none
in the state. Our guide and interpreter,
Mr. R. A. Thompson, editor of the
“Sonoma Democrat” distinguished him-
self as a princely entertainer.
	After two days at Santa Rosa, the memory
of which will linger with us forever, we
turned our faces homeward, and in a few
hours were again at our hotel in the City of
the Golden Gate.
	Forever will dwell with us the happiness
of those days, and the kind faces of our
new friends will serve as a beacon light to
lure us back again to California.
