AN OVATION.
	MONDAY evening, July 2nd, was a gala
time indeed for the Young Ladies Associa-
tion of this County. These sisters paid
such a genuine compliment to their Gen-
eral President as is seldom received by any
one, however diligent and faithful or dis-
tinguished they may have been. Sister
Elmina S. Taylor, the honored President,
was entirely unaware of any effort in this
direction, and was consequently almost
overcome with the honors heaped upon her
at the party given to show the love and es-
teem of her friends and co-laborers, and
their generous appreciation of her
magnificent work for the Associations over
which she has presided the last fourteen
years.
	The Fourteenth Ward Hall, was beauti-
fully decorated with flowers and blossom-
ing plants and the place was filled with
Sister Taylor’s, friends when she came in,
almost bewildered with the dazzling beauty
of the scene, yet wholly unconscious of its
significance. Inspiring music, songs and
speeches all rendered in the happiest style,
and the scene, yet wholly unconscious of its
significance. Inspiring music, songs and
speeches all rendered in the happiest style,
and the presentation of bouquets of flowers
until the lady was literally embowered in


roses, the fragrance filling the hall; and
then came the crowning effort in the way
of demonstration, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp in
behalf of the Young Ladies in a graceful
and happy speech presented the President
with a handsome Album home-made with
gold clasp and silver engraving, in which
was inscribed the sentiments and addresses
that had been given by these noble
champions of the cause in which they are
all mutually interested.
	Mrs. Taylor responded graciously but
with much embarrassment, as she was com-
pletely overcome with the ovation tendered
her.
	Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon was then an-
nounced as master of ceremonies, and toasts
and responses were indulged in by both
gentlemen and ladies, some sentimental and
some humorous, all appreciative of the one
whom they had assembled to honor.
	A poem by Sister Woodmansee which
was given in July 15th ult. was read by her
daughter Miss Gladys Woodmansee.
	Refreshments and congratulations were
next in order and the party closed with a
benediction. The general feeling was that
the young ladies had carried off the palm,
and outdone all previous efforts in this
direction. It is good for those who labor
so earnestly and untiringly to feel their
work is appreciated, and certainly Sister
Taylor must, after this public demonstration
and magnificent ovation, feel that she has
won the love, confidence and esteem of her
co-workers. It was indeed a beautiful and
fitting testimonial.


