ADVANCEMENT.
The ladies who have recently graduated
from Doctor Ellis R. Shipp’s School of
Obstetrics are Mrs. Matilda Swenson, Har-
risville Weber Co. Mrs. Mary Ann
Hamlin, Salt Lake City. Mrs. Leona
Benson, Alpine, Utah Co. Mrs. Marina
Hansen, Riverton, Utah. Mrs. Eliza
Smith, Pleasant Green, Salt Lake Co.
Mrs. Mary Midgley, Wales, Sanpete Co.,
and Mrs Sarah Vance of Mesa City,
Arizona.  
These ladies have shown marked
integrity in their studies, received
certificates of proficiency and we believe go
forth to extended spheres of usefulness, and
will in their respective localities fill along
felt want. The words of encouragment
and blessing given them by inspiration,
will surely act as a stimulus and powerful
incentive to energetic effort, in their labors
among the sick and suffering—ministering
as they will both to the bodies and the
minds of their patients. Truly their mis-
sion is one of the most grand and noble!
One filled with daily and homely self-sacri-
fice, one to call into action the better part
of their natures, their stern energies, and
their soft and tender emotions.
To all well-balanced minds, woman is
particularly adapted, fitted, and is it too
much to say, fore-ordained to the Sacred
calling of nurse and accoucheur.
If any member of a family is sick who
does the nursing? "Whose gentle hand
soothes the aching, tossing head? Who
binds up the cuts and scratches, or per-
chance the more serious wounds and
bruises? Who keeps nightly, sleepless
vigil over the couch of the dying one.
With the first sensation of pain the child
instinctively calls the name of “mother"
even when the senses are partially be-
numbed with Aneisthetics, when in
hospitals and far removed from home,
have we heard children, and even stalwart
men, call the sacred name of mother.
Then let us ask, who should study and
inform themselves most thoroughly upon
the intricate principles of medicine, and
the more simple and natural laws of nurs-
ing, if not woman? Instead of leaving
this profession to men alone, we maintain
that special branches should be studied and
practiced solely by women; Let her tender
care be for her own sex and the little ones,
for such are the instincts of nature and the
design of Heaven.
This knowledge should be a component
part of every woman’s education. Let the
minds of our daughters be cultivated and
adorned with all the beauties of art, music
and literature, but let domestic science with
the care and nursing of th sick, become
an essential, aye an indispensable part of
their accomplishments.           H


