U. W. P. C.

	MEETING of the U. W. P. C. held in
the Office of Dr. E. R. Shipp, July 31st,
1894, President Shipp in the chair. Pray-
er was offered by Eliza Bennion. Roll
called and responded to with sentiments
from Shakespere. Mesdames W. B. Law-


ler, Isabella Brown, Emma Holling and 
Laura Hyde were admitted members of the 
club. C. C. R. Wells reminded the ladies of
the delinquency in the matter of fees: Also 
said it was desired that the members wear 
their club badges at the meetings. Lizzie
Shipp and Miss Hillstead favored the club
with a duet. Dr. E. B. Ferguson sug-
gested that Current Topics be taken up and
discussed at the next meeting. Laura W. 
Hyde gave a recitation, Dr. Ferguson gave 
an interesting talk on Theosophy followed
by Phebe C. Young. The subject was 
discussed by members. The following pro-
gram was read for the next meeting. An
Article by Nellie C. Taylor, a recitation by 
Ellis Shipp. A paper on "Heredity," by
Dr. Ferguson. Music by Maude Pratt.
"Current Events," Ada Patterson. An 
article on Pen Women, by E. B. Wells and 
quotations from Bryant by the members. 
Meeting adjourned until Aug. 31st. Bene-
diction by Minnie J. Snow. After which 
refreshments were served and the usual 
pleasant chat followed.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Asst. Sec.


MEMORIAL DAY for the late Sister Han-
nah T. King, poet and author, was observed
on July 30 ult. at the residence of Mrs.
John Alford, who had made special pre-
parations for the occasion and sent out cards
of invitation for 4 p. m. A most delicious
repast was served in the happiest style.
At each plate was a handsome double card
tied with lavender ribbon, each one con-
tained a verse from the Psalms of which
Sister King was so fond. The table and 
the parlors, in fact were artistically decor- 
ated with flowers and vines, and gave the
rooms a charming appearance. After din-
ner the ladies each paid a beautiful tribute
to the gifted, departed friend. Sister Rich-
ards had composed a few verses for the oc-
casion which were read and are published
on another page. The guests were Mes-
dames Horne, Kimball, Spencer, Smith,
Grieves, Howe, Woodmansee, Brockbank,
McFarlane, Richards and Wells.


