ITEMS FROM PAROWAN.
Woman's Exponent:
Although we have not been heard from
for some time, we trust it has not been
thought we were sleeping, for we have
never ceased working and hope we are
apace with our sister settlements similarly
situated.
The 24 of July was “old folks" day for
all the aged fathers and mothers of Iron
Co, all being invited to partake of dinner
at 3 a. m. in the basement of the Parowan
meeting house; the Relief Society of this
ward prepared the dinner and it was truly a
credit to them as far as quality and quantity,
there being sufficient to have supplied as
many more after the two hundred had
regaled themselves.
August fourth the Primary Association
held conference, and it was a real pleasure
to see the way the little ones acquitted
themselves, although as usual the girls
surpassed their brothers in every way, this
is a noticeable fact wherever we go, and I
just believe I have discovered a remedy, if
the fathers would only interest themselves
in this very important association and not
rely too much upon the already over
burdened mothers to control these minia-
ture lords of creation, but see for themselves
that the small boys went to their meetings,
talk to the little fellows after Primary about
what had been done there, go with them at
least once each year, be just as earnest and
particular as with any other requirement
made of us, I believe we would soon find a
reformation amongst the boys of the Pri-
mary. The first and all essential stepping
stone to the higher organizations that pre-
pare our sons and daughters to become
priests and priestesses of the living God.
August fifth the Relief Society Confer-
ence convened, a quiet peaceful influence
reigned as is usual at all the sisters meet-
ings, very favorable reports were given
from the different wards, the subjects
touched upon were the storing of grain,
silk culture, training of children, and many
other duties, making an interesting and
enjoyable time.
We are located distantly from the gener-
al board, visits from the presiding officers
are therefore seldom, but we would receive
instructions most gladly at any time.
E. Crane Watson, Cor. Sec.
Parowan, Iron Co. Aug. 6, 1894.


