[Column 1]
tion of an autumn crop, the latter silk be-
ing better in color and stronger. The silk,
pale brown in color, is reeled and woven by
hand labor, the usual size of the pieces be-
ing about 20 yards by 20 inches; a piece
weighs 2 catties, more or less, according to
quality, the exact weight being recorded
on the edge, as, if above 2 taels* in value
it is sold by weight.
	Of late years the material manufactured
for the foreign markets has improved greatly
in both reeled and woven silk. The great
improvement in the reeled state is that the
hanks are less than one half the circumfer-
ence they were ten years ago, which is a
matter of importance, as according to the
size of the hank the framework from which
it is woven must be larger or smaller; con-
sequently the long hanks are often refused
in the European markets, as they require
too great a space in the factory. During
the last two or three years some workers
have taken great pains in reeling to keep
the silk clean and of an even thickness
while they have contrived to introduce a
twist in imitation of the “filanda” manu-
facture. The silk has commanded a far
better price than the ordinary article, and
will probably increase yearly, especially as
silk of any quality commands far more per
picul† if sold in large lots than when sold
in small parcels, for in the foreign factories
each alteration in quality necessitates a new
arrangement of the machinery.
	The weaving of the silk for foreign con-
sumption has improved, any width that
may be in demand being now undertaken,
instead of the formerly uniform width of 20
inches. Wide pieces command a better
price per catty, according to the width.
Fancy patterns are also undertaken. Little
improvement has taken place in the dyeing,
and only inferior qualities or spoilt pieces
are dyed, as the different threads take the
dye in varying shades.
	Of late the demand from abroad for the
commoner pongees has been far in excess of
the supply, the smallness of which is pos-
sibly accounted for by the fact that coarse
pongees are worn a good deal by the
Chinese middle classes, as they cost little
more than imported cottons and are far
more durable, while they wash equally
well; in fact, all Shantung pongee is
washed before coming into the market, be-
ing made very dirty in weaving. In all
qualities of the woven articles it is calcu-
lated that the raw material represents about
half the value of the piece, labor and trans-
port making up the balance. The yellow
silk, though yielding a much better price,
is not produced to anything like the same
extent, as it entails much greater labor.
The worm has to be kept in the house, and
mulberry leaves provided for it daily. The
mulberry trees are sometimes planted in
fields, an acre supporting from ten to twenty,
according to the soil, but the more frequent
position for them is on the edge of terraces,
the corners of yards, or any spot which
can not otherwise be used. The tree
should be 10 years old for the worms to
produce good silk, and such a tree should
yield 20 to 30 catties of leaves a year.
	Twenty catties of leaves produce one
catty of cocoons, which yield about one-
tenth of a catty of silk, the quality varying
according to the richness of the leaves.
The market price of leaves is ordinarily
about 10 cash per catty. The common
practice in Shantung is to plant mulberry
	*1 tael—$1.20 United States gold. †1 picul—
	133⅓ pounds.

[Column 2]
seedlings in masses in the corners of fields
and to repeatedly cut them down; by this
means a large number of young shoots are
produced, which bud early in the spring,
and these tender leaves are used to feed the
young worms when first hatched, the leaves
on the big trees being ready for them when
they are older. The silk is far inferior to
that produced in Kiangsu and Chekiang,
by reason, it is said, of the mulberry trees
being grown in Shantung from slips in-
stead of by grafting, as in the other provin-
ces, the produce of a graft being a much
thicker and richer leaf. This silk is used
almost entirely, for making silk thread; it is
reeled here by hand, and exported in that
state. A considerable quanity goes overland
to Peking.—From the Shanghai Mercury.


