COUNTESS WACHTMEISTER.
One of the celebrities who has lately
visited this City was the Countess
Wachtmeister, one of the most learned and
accomplished ladies of the present day.
She has a most interesting history and per-
sonally is a charming woman both in ap-
pearance and in conversation, and also upon
the platform.
	Her full name is Constance Georgine
Louise de Boushel de Montjoncon. Her
parents were the Marquis de Boushel in the
French diplomatic service, and Constance
Bulkley, to whom she was born March, 28,
1838, at Florence, Italy. The Boushel
family is one of the most ancient in France
originating from the southeast of France
they settled in Normandy about the year
936. A. D. and have thus a long line of
ancestors, distinguished in French history
especially one, Rauel de Boushel who
lived in the reign of Louis XIV. Con-
stance de Boushel, having lost her parents
at an early age, was sent to her aunt Mrs.
Bulkley of London Hill, Berkshire England
where she was educated and lived until her
marriage in 1863, with her cousin Count
Wachtmeister, then Swedish and Norwegian
minister at the Court of St. James.
	She resided there three years, when her
husband was called to Copenhagen as
minister to the Danish Court, and then
after two years the Count being made Min-
ster of Foreign Affairs, they took up their
abode at the official residence in Stockholm.
The Countess was then created “state lady
of the land” by the king, and was the last
to receive this distinction as the title has be-
come extinct. The Countess has one son
Count Axel Wachtmeister who was born in
1865.
	The Countess is an ardent exponent of
Theosophy and is giving her life and her


entire time to this occult science or power.
She lived on the continent in Germany and
other countries some years with Madame
H.P. Blavatsky while she was writing the
‘‘Secret Doctrine,” and she has herself
published Reminiscences of Madame
Blavatsky and the Secret Doctrine. She
spent last winter in East India, making a
study of its people, and their strange doc-
trines and customs.
	She lectured in this city several times on
Theosophy and once upon India. As a
lecturer the Countess is very entertaining,
her voice is singularly pleasing, and her
manner quiet and prepossessing. She is now
in the East but will sail from New York in
the Autumn and expects Annie Bessant to
join her in England, the latter having been
in Australia. These two ladies will go to-
gether to India where they will remain dur-
ing the coming winter.
	Judging from conversations with the
Countess one would infer that she was great-
ly attached to her home in Sweden, but she
seems very zealous in theosophical work
and expects to devote herself exclusively
to promulgating its principles and advanc-
ing its interests.


