[Column 1]
in operation and ran the business until
others learned to operate it.
	At the time he went East to buy the
machinery he carried $7.000 in a belt made
for the purpose, on his person. The money
was entrusted to him by Apostle Lorenzo 
Snow without a receipt or security and also
an order for credit if he should need it; he
is 80 years old, the father of 21 children,
100 grand children and great grand child-
ren; he can read without glasses and do a
man’s work. Seven of his children are
resettled on good homes near him. He is
Presiding Elder of McCammon branch and
is now superintending the building of a
new meeting house.
	We left McCammon Wednesday morning
at 8 o’clock for Garden City, where we met
with the Relief Society at 10 o’clock with a
good representation the local President pre-
siding. This Society was doing well as re-
ported by the President. Similar instruc-
tions were given as at the previous meet-
ings. Bishop Capell testified to the good-
ness of God and appreciated the visit of the
sisters. After dinner we proceeded to
Nine-Mile, and held our eighth meeting at
2’clock, President Coffin presiding. Sister
Coffin was bowed down with grief on ac-
count of the death of her husband which
happened the week before.
	The instructions given were much the
same as had been given at previous meetings
delivered in a spicy manner under the in- 
fluence of the Spirit of God. Their Dis-
trict School was still in session and judging
from the blackboard work left from the
daily exercise they are blest with a com-
petent teacher We were kindly provided
for by the two Sister Coffins for the night.
	On the morning of 14th, we continued
our journey to Clifton and held our ninth 
and final meeting with a house well filled,
President D. E. Dudley presiding. We
felt to appreciate the efforts of their new
choir. Bishop Gayner and his two coun-
selors were present on the stand. President
D. E. Dudley having been called to act as a
counselor in the stake she was released
and Sister Lucy A. Howell was called and
set apart to take her place as president of
the Clifton Relief Society. President A. 
Barker urged all to labor for the redemption
of their dead friends, told them how
to plant mulberry trees and raise silk and
help to be self sustaining. She said she
was not well when she started but she felt
blessed in her labors; although it had been
very cold she believed it had done her
good. Counselor Hawks spoke of the
goodness of God in leading us out of
Babylon and establishing us in the moun-
tains while the judgments of God should
pass over the nations and of the signs of
the times. President Fox spoke in praise
of the Relief Society branches she had
visited and felt to thank the Lord for the
Gospel, and all the blessings attached there-
to, felt to do her duty and exhort every
sister under her jurisdiction to do the same.
She felt that our visit had been appreciated
by the kind reception we had received from
all we had met. She did not think hard
times had found their way up North judg-
ing from the good things that were ever
present where we were entertained. She
felt, to leave a mother’s blessing with all.
Counselor D. E. Dudley gave a humorous
report of our journey in a brief way.
Elder Joshua Hawks continued the report
speaking of the spreading abroad of our
 sons and daughters in this goodly land,
making homes, building canals, meeting

[Column 2]
houses, organizing into wards, Relief Society
Associations according to the plan of the
Gospel, and felt all things were working
on slowly and steadily but surely. Zion is
spreading out her borders, subduing the
desert and the kingdom of God will be
duly established. The little stone cut out
of the mountain without hands was surely
rolling forth and will eventually fill the
whole earth. He felt to bless the young
people and the old, begged of them to be
humble and obedient that they might be
useful in any place they might be called to
act.
	Bishop Garner felt well and thanked all
for their visit and good instruction and en-
couragement. After the closing exercises
preparations were made to go home to
Franklin. We separated, feeling greatly
blessed and instructed by our short mission
during which we had enjoyed so richly the
spirit which enlighteneth the soul of man.
	ELIZABETH FOX, President.
	MARY HAWKS, Counselor.
	D. E. DUDLEY, Sec. pro-tem.


