[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | June | Issue: 22 | Title: IN RURAL ENGLAND. | Author: Unknown]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XIV.
	After the young ladies ascertained that Clair
could sing and play, was fond of sketching and
inclined to be literary in his tastes, they seemed
to forgive everything else and to consider him
one of the family. He helped them wonder-
fully in a way, not practically, but certainly
his tastes were elevating. He loved the ances-
tral home, and though he had been more than
contented in his own country, yet when he
found such grandeur and magnificence in the
place which was to be his inheritance in part,
he felt the pride of a great name and of honor-
able heritage, and his aspirations were noble,
and becoming his station; much more so than
those of his father, notwithstanding the ple-
beian blood that flowed in his veins from the
lineage of his mother.
	Lady Anna improved every day she passed
in the society of her brother. His ideas of
womanliness and of things in general, were of
the highest order, and his influence over those
around him tended towards advancement in
the highest cultivation. His cousin Anna had
never seen any one to compare with him in true
manliness, though in the best society he had
never mingled and scarce knew the customs
and manners of the class of people to which he
really belonged. He never cast any reflections
upon the name of his father, who had defraud-
ed him of his birthright as long as he lived
(and all because of a silly quarrel with his
mother); he seemed to be of a forgiving and
gentle nature, and through these beautiful and
estimable qualities he won friends and obtain-
ed influence, which gave him prestige wherever
he went, and made him a leader, although he
had not the haughty pride and bearing of an
English nobleman. His very simplicity gave
peculiar charm to his manner, that made him
more attractive than those who were accustom-
ed to the elegance and luxury of an aristocrat-
ic home.
	Lady Anna and her cousin soon found that
the elite of the neighborhood were anxious to
cultivate their acquaintance since Clair had
been introduced, for Mr. Burke, true to his
promise, came down a week after his abrupt
departure and informed the family and others
interested in the matter that Monsieur Clair-
ville was the son of Sir Edward Hilliard and
must be acknowledged as his father's rightful
heir, however reluctant the nobility might be
to receive him.
	The young girls were very glad to have such

[Column 2]

a chaperone; and even Miss Conway, staid and
practical as she was, loved to listen to his fine
voice, and never wearied of his songs or con-
versation. It was much better to have some
one to walk or ride or boat with them, and in
every place and under all circumstances, young
Clair seemed to fit in admirably. In time he
took in the whole situation of affairs, and with
wonderful tact managed to make himself use-
ful and needful to them all. Dr. Bland trust-
ed him with his attachment for Miss Conway,
and so did Maitland Walton, and as for his
sister and his cousin, he could read them al-
most perfectly. As he had no secrets of his
own, he was deeply interested in theirs, and
especially so in that of Dr. Bland and Miss
Conway, knowing how deep and intense must
be the devotion of such a man as the doctor.
It was not the love of a boy, but of a man of
mature years, whose affections could not have
been given lightly, and who had staked all
in the strength of this attachment.
	In numberless ways Clair helped the young
people; almost unconsciously he had the most
delicate perception of what was proper and
also of what would be agreeable, and his
plans nearly always succeeded admirably.
	Fishing and boating parties were his chief
delight for pastime, and the doctor was pas-
sionately fond of fishing. On the Hilliard
estate were fine ponds and brooks for these out-
of-door sports, and the young folks were not
slow in availing themselves of these opportun-
ities for out-door exercise. Such excursions
are always favorable for lovers and, now that
Clair knew Maitland Walton, he was generally
one of the party on all such occasions.
	At last Lady Walton consented to be intro-
duced to Clair; she had refused repeatedly, and
it was hard for these young folks to comprehend
why. Jane Conway knew well enough that it
was on account of an old-time fondness for Sir
Edward, but whoever, unless in the secret, could
be made to believe that a lady so refined, deli-
cate and sensitive as Lady Walton could ever
have been in love with such a man, or cherish-
ed through all these years a memory of the past,
that could not be stifled sufficiently to allow
friendly intercourse with his relatives. "To
think"—Lady Walton had said on one occasion
to an intimate friend, "to think that while we all
thought Sir Edward a single man, he had a
wife and child abroad. I can scarcely believe
it is not a hideous nightmare from which I
shall soon awaken to find it a dream."
	Mrs. Walton's pride was wounded, her inter-
view with Sir Edward had been very flattering;
to think through all the long years he had not
forgotten her; if her married life had been un-
happy, she could never have risen above temp-
tation, but she had recieved admiration and
attention almost amounting to adulation; and
it had been a sort of balm to her disappoint-
ment. Now she felt she never could mingle
more in the society to which she had been ac-
customed and where could she look for relief
from ennui! She was not a woman with
sufficient mental vigor to inspire a son like
Maitland to any high pursuit, or lofty ambition,
and his father simply allowed him to do as he
pleased.
	When Maitland learned that Lady Anna had
not been forbidden by her father's will to
marry him, he felt encouraged; he had not
much fear of his father's interference, as he had
no idea of the cause of estrangement between
the families. Lady Walton, Miss Conway,
and now Dr. Bland were the only ones who
knew the history. Miss Conway realized deep-
ly the peculiar embarrassment Lady Walton
would feel when it was positively known that
Clairville was the son of Sir Edward, but she
had supposed her capable of greater sacrifices
of feeling than she seemed prepared to under-
take. Miss Conway wondered in her own
mind if there were no other women in the

[Column 3]

world like herself, ready to sacrifice self for
the sake of others, good and happiness.
	Time passed, and young Clair grew every
day more familiar with the scenes among which
his future life was to be spent; and every one
connected with the household seemed attracted
to him, though evidently wishing to keep him
at a distance. He took them by storm irresist-
ably and they looked up to him, as they
had never done to his father, notwithstanding
their belief that gipsy blood flowed in his veins.
Lady Anna depended upon him for amusement,
as well as for an escort, and ere long confided
to him her heart's secrets. His tenderness for
her was like that one feels for a child, and he
determined she should not be thwarted in her
desires.
	"Do you not know Lady Walton?" he in-
quired one day when they were talking con-
fidentially upon the matter. "No, I have only
seen her once when she called on us after the
funeral, and she is so stately and grand, in
appearance, and I know so little of society, I
dare not venture to talk to her of Maitland;
he must do that himself," replied Anna. "But,"
interrupted her brother, "he does not seem to
have much success, and meantime the suspense
is preying upon your mind; let me see this
superb aristocratic fine lady. I will try to
bring about an understanding that will be per-
manent." And so it was agreed after some con-
sultation that if cousin Jane would consent,
Clair should seek an interview with Lady
Walton. Lady Anna was not so sanguine
as Clair himself appeared to be, both of them
knew so little of such matters, and it was
dangerous ground to venture on, yet unsophis-
ticated in the realities of these things they did
not hesitate as wiser and more cautious people
would have done. Before an hour had passed
Jane had been informed of the decision, and
contrary to her usual caution, had said to Clair,
"Go and try to obtain an interview, make some
excuse in regard to the estate, and you may
see her alone. I wish you success though in
such a hazardous enterprise." The fact was
Miss Conway felt it would be a relief to as-
certain more of Lady Walton's real feelings on
the subject and was willing to risk Clair's
visit thinking it could be no worse than waiting
to know all. Dr. Bland had spoken out
plainly and told her what her duty was, and
now perhaps Clair would learn whether she
had followed the Doctor's advice. The same
afternoon, mounted on one of the finest horses
about the place, and looking like a true court-
ier, Clair rode away watched by the admiring
eyes of the two young ladies, who felt he must
win the heart of Lady Walton, inexorable as
she might be, and so it proved.
	When Clair arrived at the entrance of the
grounds leading to Walton Hall the lodgekeeper
surveyed him from head to foot curiously,horse
and all, and then as he dismounted inquired,
"what can I render ye'se? in blunt English.
Clair addressed him in the most suave man-
ner with, "I have a message to Lady Walton
and must see her." "I can see ye'ze a foreign-
er; go up to the lane that winds between the
great elms and ye'll see the porter just there,
your face'll be yer passport." Thus directed
Clair wended his way along the pathway to-
wards the mansion, his only misgiving being
that he had no idea of the proprieties or maniere
usual on such occasions. A surly porter in
the doorway accosted him with, "Your name,
young man, and who do you wish to see, his
Lordship or the young master?" "Neither sir,
my business is with Lady Walton and it is
most important." "Be seated then, and I will
take your message to her valet." Very soon a
Frenchman with a pompous air appeared and
Clair, who spoke the language perfectly,
told his errand in the tongue most familiar to
him, which impressed him much more favor-
ably than if he had spoken in English. The


valet disappeared and in a moment returned
and ushered him into the library. Lady Wal-
ton with all the courage she could command
and querying who the stranger could be, intro-
duced herself by saying, “I understand you
have an important message for me, but having
observed the likeness to Sir Edward, turned
pale as death and added, “your name, young
man, you have not given it?” “I am Monsieur
Clairville Hilliard;” the last name came re-
luctantly. “I thought so,” replied the lady;
“and pray what can be your business with me?”
She shook with fear lest Sir Edward had sent
a message from his deathbed, and yet she had
heard that the Baronet had never acknowl-
edged him. It was not so easy to explain his
errand as Clair had fancied, he had never be-
fore seen such a magnificent, queenly woman,
and his manner was so timid and hesitating as
to cause anxiety on the lady’s part. She
helped him by saying, “What news do you
bring from the young ladies at the castle? Are
they well, and enjoying the fine Spring
weather?” Thus encouraged Clair found voice
to say, “Lady Anna is not well and I have paid
this visit solely on her account, and I beg you
to listen to me, and to promise me you will see
her and have some proper understanding of an
affair that seems now to become more and more
distressingly complicated.”
	“Your ardor in her behalf speaks well for
your affection as a brother, but might possibly
be misinterpreted.” “How could that be. It is
because of my sympathy for her melancholy
condition that I have come to you;surely there
can be no wrong motive attached to that?”
Clair was not skilled in the world’s methods
and it never occurred to his ingenuous soul
that people might think him anxious to get
her married that the estate might not be en-
cumbered to him she was the perfection of
beauty and delicacy, and his heart went out in
love and tenderness to her the first time they
met. He was deeply wounded by Lady
Walton’s insinuation, and felt to resent it, yet
knew not what to say,an therefore waited un-
til she resumed the conversation.
	‘‘Are you aware that Dr. Bland came here
on the same errand to teach me my duty, and
now this young woman is desperate enough to
send another messenger to question me. Surely
this is very impolite to openly avow her senti-
ments, and not the manner of girls of gentle
blood.”
	“My sister never sent any one to plead her
cause, she is too pure to cherish any but the
most sacred, womanly feelings. Your son has
won her heart and it is breaking because of
your cruelty.” And he strode out of the room
indignantly, the hot blood mounting to his
cheek as it had never done before since his
boyhood.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


