[Vol44 | April 1957 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: 212 The Northern Far East Mission Preston R. Nibley]
Mission and Salvation Universal Joseph Fielding Smith In this book, President Smith clears up some of the problems and confusions concerning Elias and Elijah and their calling. In doing so, he speaks forcefully and directly concerning the responsibility of the living for the dead and the vital necessity of Temple Work $1.50 2. Answers to Gospel Questions Joseph Fielding Smith President Smith gives forthright answers and makes careful analyses of perplexing questions asked by lay members of the Church. These pertinent questions come from many diverse areas—from old and young alike. The warmth of President Smith's understanding, added to his scriptural knowledge, makes this book an invaluable addition to every LDS library. Ready about April 3rd. $2.50 3. Messages of Inspiration Selected Addresses of the General Authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints This collection of thirty-three addresses, selected by the General Authorities themselves, considers a wide variety of subjects including: faith, charity, reverence, prayer, chastity and appreciation. $3.75 DeseretI 1 — 44. East South Temple - Salt Lake Coty pe —— =; ee —, ( I DESERET BOOK COMPANY I I 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah I I Gentiemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) I I money order ( ) charge to my account for the encircled I I (numbered) books: 1 2 3. I I Amount enclosed $.2..0.0 00 02. Ce cece ceeeeceeneneeeees; I I Ce I ee. I Address cccceccssseeecceeeceecececcescesesecceesecesssceveeseovececeveeesseseeseeeees I r City eee cee cence eee ceeees. Zone. State eee I Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. I

NUMBER FOUR IN A SERIES: "SHARING THE GOOD THINGS OF LIFE" HAPPY FAMILIES... Do things TOGETHER "Now watch the birdie' click and we have a portrait of our happy Beneficial family—we hope! With Jimmy making rabbit ears behind Dad's back, and Susie squirming on his lap, we're not at all sure how this picture will turn out. But you can be sure how a picture of your family will turn out ten, twenty, or even thirty years from now. It's bound to be a pleasant picture, free from financial problems if you have a "Planned Future" for your family. What's a "Planned Future?" Your friendly Beneficial Life agent will be more than happy to explain it to you with no obligation whatever. Why wait longer? Give him a call soon, or write for free folder, "Planned Futures." BENEFICIAL LIFE _Jusuiane Lj tnnn Company BENEFICIAL David O. McKay, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah MAGA ZAZAIN B VOL. 44 NO. 5 MAY 1957