[Vol44 | April 1957 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Winning]
Winning Our Goal OY of achievement is mirrored on the face of the young man in the poster who has just won the footrace. He is experiencing the realization of earnest effort, training, clean living, and of learning to accept and obey orders. He _ has reached his goal because he was willing to follow the rules which led to it. Latter-day Saints who would travel life's course so as to win their coveted goal must follow a like course. They hold their bodily desires in subjection to their spiritual strength and they never become discouraged to the point that they are overcome by the trials and temptations of the world. A child once asked her mother, "Why does Sister Toone always pray that she will endure to the end? She is very old and good. Why does she always say that when she bears her testimony?" The child was too young to realize that no mortal age places one beyond the reach of temptation, but each age presents different testings and trials. 'The wisdom and experience of years, however, should expand our souls so that our love is not stopped at the family circle and beloved friends, but flows over to embrace our neighbors. We must offer friendship to the lonely, give service to the sick and needy, tender encouragement to the discouraged, and a deep assurance of faith to the doubting. To win in life's course requires the development in the soul of charity, the pure love of Christ which guides us along the straight and narrow path to the shining, glorious goal of eternal life. To win the race of life we must keep in training just like the athlete, but the course is longer, the trials more difficult, and the temptation to falter greater. In life" the race is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong" (Eccles. G:11,); but to him that endures to the end. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page' 243 Recipes From the Northern Sar East Mission Submitted by Frances P. Andrus SUSHI Sushi Meshi (Rice Mixture): 4 c. Cooked rice 2 tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) "4 c. Vinegar "2 ¢. Dry shrimp "% c. Cane sugar salt to taste Shrimp should be soaked in vinegar, sugar, and salt overnight. Cover the dish. Drain shrimp and save liquid. Use this vinegar liquid to pour over cooled rice and toss lightly so rice will not be gummy. 'This rice mixture, when placed in aburage (bean cake) cones, is delicious for in-between snacks, for picnics, and buffet parties. For Cones: 12 aburage, cut in two Filling: 1% c. Water 2 medium-sized carrots, chopped "% tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) 10 string beans, chopped small shavings from 12 aburage (fried salt to taste pressed bean cakes) when cut into few dry shrimps two for cones 1 tbsp. Cane sugar Chop carrots and beans in long, fine strips, add 1 c. Water and boil for five minutes. Boil shavings of aburage for ten minutes in % c. Water. Add sugar and salt. Cook a little longer. Drain and cool. Bring chopped shrimp to a boil and in the water drained from aburage shavings cook slowly several minutes. Add seasoning and aburage shavings. Drain and mix vegetables with rice, and scoop into the cones made from 12 aburage cut in two, making 24 filled cones. CuCUMBER SUMISO 2 medium-sized cucumbers Peel the cucumbers, remove seeds, and cut in halves lengthwise, SUMISO SAUCE 3 tbsp. Miso (soy bean paste) 2 tbsp. Cane sugar (optional ) 2 tbsp. Sesame seeds or % tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) 2 tbsp. Roasted peanuts ground 3 tbsp vinegar 2 tbsp. Green onion chopped 1 tbsp. Clam juice 1 can hokkigai (boiled clams) sliced For making the sumiso, combine miso (if desired), Ajinomoto, vinegar, and clam juice. Add the chopped green onion, sliced clams, and ground peanuts or sesame seeds. Chill. Just before serving, add the chilled sumiso (sauce) to the cucumbers. Meat or Fow. T With EccPLANT Cut up pork, beef, or fowl, ot use hamburger, and cook with little water and soy sauce. Cut up eggplant with the skin on and cook with the meat until tender. Add a little sugar if desized. SUKIYAKI 2 lbs. Tenderloin beef or chicken 2 bunches green onions 1% c. Shoyu (soy sauce) 1 can Japanese bamboo shoots fat or oil for frying 1 c. Mushrooms "'% c. Sugar or sweeten to taste Page 244 246 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 Sift dry ingredients together. Beat egg and add water. Add to dry ingredients and mix well. For thin batter, remove % c. Of the batter and add 2 tbsp. Water. The remaining portion is the thick dipping batter for the shrimps. Heat oil or fat in frying pan to 375° F. Dzip fingers in the thin batter and sprinkle over fat. Repeat several times. 'Then dip shnmp in thick dipping batter and fry until een brown. Drain on paper towel and serve immediately with tempura sauce. A TEMPURA SAUCE 2 ¢. Water /, tsp. Sugar Y, c. Bonito flakes % tsp. Ajinimoto (Accent) (dried fish flakes) "2 ¢. Grated turnip 2 tbsp. Shoyu (soy sauce) 1 tbsp. Chopped green onion Y% tsp. Salt Boil bonito in water three minutes. Strain. Add seasonings (except turnips and green onion) and bring to boil. Cool. Before serving, add turnip and green onion. —>- Sight Cancer With Research, Education, and Service Walter J. Kohler National Campaign Chairman American Cancer Society HE American Cancer Society is sending forth its annual call for contributions to fight, on an ever-broadening front, the scourge of cancer which takes so many lives. April, proclaimed by the President as Cancer Control Month, sees the launching of the Society's Crusade to raise $30,000,000. Ever since 1945 the American Cancer Society has appealed to the American people for the necessary funds to carry on its program of research, education, and service. Its accomplishments are ever more heartening, but much remains to be done. The American Cancer Society is doing its share in educating the public and the medical profession and in giving service where needed to cancer patients.

It has underway a country-wide program of research which supports more than 1,000 top-flight scientists in more than 100 hospitals, universities, and laboratories, scientists who are seeking a final cure or preventive for this dread disease. The response to the April Crusade of the American Cancer Society will determine the extent and impact of the Society's educational drive, its service in the community which brings aid and comfort, and its research program which scientists now believe will bring the ultimate victory in our lifetime. Help to hold up the Sword of Hope which is the Society's symbol! Give generously! Josef Muench ATHABASKA RIVER AND MOUNT CHRISTIE, CANADA Arn &aster Shought Della Adams Leitner Christ did not need the stone released; It did not bar his way. It was removed that those who came Might see he did not stay. The opened tomb, the grave clothes there, The angels with their word Gave to the bowed, grief-stricken ones Proof of their risen Lord. Material barriers are as nought To him, but still he needs An opened way to human hearts And lovingly he pleads That stones of doubt be cast aside So he may enter and abide.