[Column 2]
the ground of the Congress and the
Department Meetings as well. We find it
very difficult to give any sort of satisfactory
review of this extraordinary book, which to
edit was, and necessarily must have been, a
Herculean task. The value and importance
of the book to the whole civilized world can
scarcely be over-estimated. Wherever the
knowledge of the World's Columbian Ex-
position is circulated, this book should be
read in connection with that fact, for it will
give an idea of the completeness of the
mammoth undertaking which entered in-
to every department in life, mentally and
morally (so to speak) as well as educa-
tionally, industriously, socially, economi-
cally and politically, and yet its place was
so unique that it did not intefere with the
proper work of woman in any other depart-
ment of the World’s Congress work.
	The subjects are methodically grouped
under appropriate headings beginning with
the preface which every one should read;
Chapter I. contains the introduction which
gives one a good idea of the most noted
women of the Congress in a few words of
their own, then the address of the Chair-
man, Mrs. Sewall, which in itself is most
complete and beautiful in style, and perfect
in diction—Chapter II. Preparations,
giving one a brief summary of the
enormous work which was done by a few,
preparatory to holding this world-wide
Congress, and especially of Mrs. Sewall’s
visit to Europe in that interest; this chapter
closes with a Programme of the Congress—
in paragraphs presenting all the subjects
and who treated them and names of
Presidents of the day, in the Halls of
Washington and Columbus and many of
those in Department Congresses. Chapter
III—Education, opens with editorial re-
marks introducing and explaining the mat-
ter used, and throwing much light upon the
way all subjects are treated; other chapters
in their order are dealt with in a similar
manner which greatly helps and enlightens
the reader, especially those not present, or
taking part in the Congress itself, who can
somewhat better comprehend the difficulties
of editing such an over-supply of material,
although no one can really sympathize with
the editor in her work except to have had
charge of a like undertaking. Chapter IV.
Literature and the Dramatic Art has not
only an Introductory Comment by the
editor, but Editorial Comments relative to
the session of the General Congress devoted
to considering woman’s relation to Dramatic
Literature and to the stage. A telegram
was read from Mme. Janauschek excusing
herself and expressing her sympathy with
the cause—and the objects of the Congress.
Mlle. Rhea was also unavoidably absent
but the addresses of Helena Modjeska,
Georgie Cayvan and Julia Mrrlowe are
published almost in their entirety. This
chapter is certainly one of the finest in the
book Miss Marlowe closes her address
with the following paragraph:
	"That woman is capable of arduous ef-
fort and untiring devotion has been fully
demonstrated upon the stage. She has
helped to elevate the drama to its rightful
place among the educational forces of life,
and to make true what Morley says:"—
"At the play-house door, we may say to
the doubting, ‘Enter boldly, for here, too,
there are gods.’ "
	Science and Religion follows with pref-
atory remarks by the editor, scientific and
copious extracts from many papers by dis-

[Column 3]
tinguished women in the professions, and in
the ministry, worthy of special notice
would our space permit. Charity, Philan-
thropy and Religion follows, in the Editor’s
comments she says, no preceding chapter
has so clearly shown the character of the man-
agement of the great Congress as this does;
we would like to make many quotations to
show the wide scope of the addresses but in
our small paper it is impossible; however
we will mention in this connection,
"Organized work of Catholic Women,”
"Woman s place in Hebrew Thought"—
and "The Sisters of the People," the last
paper by Mrs. Hugh Price Hughes of Lon-
don, gives one a good idea of the society,
its practical benefits and results, and is com-
paratively new in methods of work.
	Moral and Social Reform comes next.
This is an invaluable acquisition to the
book, there are many addresses containing
the best thoughts, and practical propositions,
of some of the most eminent women en-
gaged in this field of work, in our own
and in foreign countries, as well as much
that has been actually accomplished in this
direction. The comments by the editor are
of great significance. Mrs. Sewall says,
"Of the seventy-one papers presented in
report congresses at least ninety per cent
treat subjects that come properly under the
head of social and moral reform, and the
same is true of at least seventy per cent of
the hundreds of addresses made in depart-
ment congresses. This chapter covers one
hundred and thirty-seven pages, Among
the famous women whose papers are given
(at least in part) are the names of Julia
Ward Howe, Elizabeth Cady Stanton
Viscountess Harberton, Maud Ballington
Booth, Laura Ormiston Chant, Lady Henry
Somerset, and Octavia W. Bates, also of
younger women famous in their own land
but not so well-known in ours, Josefa
Humpal—Zeman of Bohemia, and Mar-
garet Windeyer of New South Wales. These
young women give great promise for the
future. The last chapter in this volume
treats of the Civil and Political Status of
Women and contains many able addresses
by women who have been foremost in
laboring for the advancement of woman's
cause in the sense of moral, social and
political equality. In the address of Mrs.
Jacob Bright, sister-in-law of the Hon. John
Bright, she brings up some of the purposes
for which the LEAGUE she represents is
laboring thus, Equality of political rights
and duties—of educational opportunities,
of wages for women, for work of equal
quality and quantity with that done by
men. Of the right to hold any office or
position, paid or honorary, to which her
fellow citizens may elect her or which is in
the gift of the state. Equality in the
marriage laws, in divorce. In the right to
the custody and guardianship of children
born in wedlock. Of personal freedom and
the rights and liabilities of contract. And
the lady remarks, “The legal position of
the wife in England is a scandal to civiliza-
tion.” Other addresses are by Florence
Fenwick Miller, the Countess of Aberdeen
and other women equally able and well
qualified to enlighten the public.
	The second volume opens with Civil Law
and Government and contains extracts from
addresses by Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, the Countess of Aberdeen,
the Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg and the
Baroness Thorberg Rappe, and many others
well known to fame in our own country.


