			U. W. P. CLUB.

		[For the fiscal year 1893---94.]
	THE first meeting, with the new officers,
who were elected Oct. 31st, 1893, was held
Nov. 29th, 1893, at the apartments of the
President Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
	The subject of the hour “Thanksgiving"
was discussed. An interesting paper en-
titled, “New England Thanksgiving” was
read by the author the retiring President
E. B. Wells, who was elected Honorary
President. Also a paper by Mrs. Lillie T.
Freeze, on the “Influence of Thanksgiving
on the spiritual being, was read by the
Secretary, both contained many ideas and
different thoughts on the subject. Mrs. M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh, one of the Vice Presi-
dents at Large, addressed the Club, stat-
ing the manner of observing Thanksgiving
in Old England. Gave the origin of the
custom in that country, which dated back
to the Druids.
	The subject of Psychology was taken
up during the Spring. Able lectures were
delivered by Dr. Ferguson, Eliza Bennion,
and Gladys Woodmansee. The subject
was pretty thoroughly discussed, much
thought being given to it. All seemed to
understand it better than before.
	In the May Meeting Dr. R. B. Pratt,
read a paper on Theosophy.
	At the June Meeting, an interesting
paper on “Woman’s Clubs,’’ was read by
Mrs. Dickinson. After which President
E. B. Wells, moved that we turn the
meeting, into an informal reception, to
the Countess Wachtmeister, who was
present, accompanied by Mrs. Egbert
Roberts.
	The Countess is a disciple of “Theosophy,’’
and an intimate friend of Mme. Blavatsky,
whose death and fame in this science was
announced in the papers some time ago.
	Being invited to speak, the Countess
said, Theosophy is a great brotherhood, all
religions contain some of its principles.
It has no real organization, and no one is
required to give up his religion, who join
this brotherhood, for all religions have
some truth in them. The Countess desired
the ladies to ask questions. Several of the
ladies availed themselves of this privilege,
the questions being many and varied, which
the Countess answered in a kind and
courteous manner, giving her views, and
such information as she possessed. In this
way a pretty fair understanding was gained
of this subject, but little known in the
West, though so old in the East.
	The Countess was easy and gracious in
her address, and has the power and
eloquence of language at her command.
This interesting evening will long be
remembered by the Club.
	The National Woman’s Press Club, was

