[Column 1]
West and East Bountiful, Farmington,
Kaysville and Summit Basin were re-
ported as being in good running condition 
and good feelings prevailing.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball, “I am pleased
to meet with you, and ask your faith and
prayers,” she then read the 25th Section in
the Doctrine and Covenants then made re-
marks on what she had read, “think it a 
sermon within itself, I think the words that 
were spoken to Emma Smith meant all
that are called to the same position, we
should cultivate the best of our natures if
we do we become more and more exalted
and elevated, we all have capabilities far
beyond our comprehension, I pray that you
may be blest and comprehend what is best
for you.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant, “I have been
very much interested in the remarks of the 
sisters and can testify the spirit of the Lord
has attended those that have spoken,’’ spoke
about the power of God, referred to how
he felt when he was first called to be a
teacher. “I felt as though I wanted to
shirk my duty but the good spirit prevailed
and I went and done my duty and I have
felt thankful for the experience I had in do-
ing it, sisters dont feel that you are getting
too old to be useful. I pray that the spirit
of the Lord will continue with us that we
may be blest in meeting together.” Confer-
ence adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing
“My God the spring of all my joys.”
Benediction by Bishop Barton.
	AFTERNOON-SESSION: Opened by sing-
ing, “Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by
Brother Rouche. Singing, “Come come
ye Saints.” Minutes of the afternoon 
meeting of the previous conference read
and approved.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze then addressed the
congregation. “I heard things this morn-
that I will always remember, the prayer
was a sermon of itself.” spoke on the
word of wisdom, “I heard a man say he
was not converted to the word of wisdom 
until last conference; if I knew a certain
thing would be good for me I would grasp
it, many think that all the Relief Society
is for is to look after the poor and needy
but the Prophet Joseph said it was to save
souls, my spirit has many times needed a
physician, the Prophet also said this
Church was not fully organized until the
women were organized,” spoke about
temple work what a comfort it is to re-
deem our dead, “let us try to understand
the whisperings of the spirit, my dear sis-
ters, the teachers, you should be Angels of
mercy do not underate yourselves you are
doing much good, we should cultivate con-
fidence in ourselves. I pray that you may 
have the spirit of God to educate you that
you may be good sisters and mothers
in the kingdom of God”
	Apostle Richards then said, “I appreciate
very highly this privilege of meeting with
you, I do think the spirit of the Lord is
quite as ready to meet with the women as
the men, I do not think they have as many
bad habits they are not addicted to them,
I was pleased with what Sister Kimball
read to us.” Spoke about the early
organization of this Society, exhorted the
sisters to be more diligent and earnest in
their duties, “you have the same blessings
bestowed upon you as your husbands, and
you must understand these blessings are
yours in connection with your husbands,
there is a great deal resting upon you, your
calling is no mean one. Sisters lift up your

