S. L. CO. CONVENTION.

	THE Annual Convention of the W. S.
A. of Salt Lake Co. for the election of
officers, was held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall, Tuesday November 20th
1894, President E. MacFarlane in the
chair. Sang, “Come Away” Prayer by
Mary A. Freeze. Sang, “Why do we
seek” Roll called, minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. The treasurer’s
report for the year was read and approved.
The election of officers by ballot was then
proceeded with, and resulted in the follow-
ing being unanimously sustained.
	Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, President, Ruth
M. Fox, first Vice President, Adella W.
Eardley, seeond Vice President, Mary E.
Bassett, third Vice President, Mary E.
Irvine, Secretary, Ella W. Hyde, Treasurer,
Mary P. Silver, Chairman Ex. Board, E.
M. Price, Julia Druce, Louisa Badger and
E. MacFarlane members of board.
	The retiring President thanked the mem-
bers for their attendance during the year
just passed, said she had only been absent
once in the year. In a very pleasing
manner she then introduced the incoming
officers, feeling sure that they were the
right ones. President E. B. Ferguson
moved we give a hearty vote of thanks to
the retiring officers. It was carried unani-
mously. E. M. Price had only been absent
twice in four years, if she had not benefited
others she had benefited herself. Julia
Druce was very much pleased with the new
officers, thought they were just the ones
wanted at the present time; wished them
success, would do all she could to help the
cause along.
	President E. B. Ferguson thanked the
members for their confidence in her, would
do all she could to retain it, said there will
be plenty to do. The election is over, but
we ought to interview the members elected
to see if they intend to place women side
by side with men in the constitution, many
are inclined to hang back, saying wait till
we are a State then we will give to women
Suffrage. That women want to vote if
given the opportunity has been fully de-
monstrated in Colorado; they not only voted
themselves, but sought out all the indif-
ferent ones. We will find many who are
willing to work with us to obtain a proper
recognition in the constitution. Read a
very forcible letter from the Salt Lake Tri-
bune written by Mrs. Youngblood.
	A motion was made and carried that the
lady be waited upon and thanked for her
letter, also a communication be sent to the
daily papers expressing the feeling of this
meeting in regard to her noble defense of
woman. Moved to adjourn till December.
