PIECRUST.

	In making the statement that pie-crust
was as digestible as oatmeal or graham
bread, Mrs. Ewing wished to explain that
she meant pastry made in the proper man-
ner was more digestible than the average
graham bread or oatmeal, and that either of
the latter was not good when eaten under
protest, or with the idea that one must eat
it for his health; but if eaten because re-
lished, the case was different. A constant
use of any one article of diet is dangerous,
especially for young people. Some eminent
physicians argue that every cell of every
organ requires its own nutrition, hence the
need of variety. The average person who
is seemingly best fed may perhaps be little
fed.
	Mrs. Ewing then prepared the flaky pie-
crust in the following manner: Take three
cups of sifted flour to one cup of shortening,
(the shortening consists of half butter and
half lard;) after measuring the shortening
set it on ice to cool. Everything connected
with making pastry should be perfectly
cold. Hash the flour and shortening to-
gether before an open window so the air
enters the paste as you turn it. When
hashed so that the shortening appears like
flakes about the size of a pea, add ice water
about three quarters of a cup, and scatter
in all through, not in one place because you
don’t want to work it any more than
necessary to make a combination. Do not
use the hands, for two reasons; first, it
would warm the shortening, and second, it
would make it too fine; be sure not to rub
the pie crust any more than you can help,
rather too little than too much, for the
flakes must not be destroyed. Scatter a
little dry flour on the board and place the
pasty on, fold carefully in three, that is,
the first part over one-third of the way,
then bring the other end over so you have
three layers; turn so that the open ends are
towards and from you and roll; repeat this
folding, turning and rolling three times,
the sooner it is made the better it will be.
If made an hour or two before use, it will
be nicer. Use all the flour you need to roll
the pie crust, but be careful to brush it off
each time the paste is turned over. The
secret of fine pie crust lies in the rolling;
and considering that fact it would be im-
possible to accurately tell just how to make
puff paste as Mrs. Ewing makes it; one can
only learn that by close observation; but if
the principles of folding, turning and roll-
ing are understood, one can have perfect
puff paste by the following receipe: One
pound of flour, one pound of butter; work
the butter in a wet towel until it is waxy
and pliable set aside on the ice; take one-
eighth of the butter and work into the flour;
take the white of a large egg and enough
ice water to moisten the flour; work with
finger tips until it blisters or is the same
consistency as the butter; always work in a
cool room and before an open window; place
on the board and roll out just enough to
cover with the butter; wipe the moisture
from the butter and sprinkle with flour; lay
butter on paste and gather the paste over
the butter pinching the edges so that the
butter is folded in; press with rolling pin
slightly three times, first in the middle then
at the sides, then roll half as much as you
intend, turn over and roll the other side;
leave the paste about an inch thick; this is
to stretch the butter, and rolling always
just the same on both sides so as to keep

