BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF MAREN BARTLESON.

	SISTER BARTLESON was born in Lundie, Viborg,
Amt, Denmark, Aug. 19th, 1807.
	She was married to Niels Bartleson in the sum-
mer of 1831, and joined the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in the spring of 1853.
Her husband did not join for some time after.
	They suffered much persecution in their native
land even before they became members of the
Church, and were compelled to choose between
their home and the Gospel: for one or the other
must be forfeited, although their landlord tried
hard to have them give up their religion which
the husband would have done at that time, he,
being quite weak in the faith; but his wife pre-
ferred giving up her home, putting her trust in the
Lord, saying, it was all in the programme; so she
with her husband and ten children, the youngest
being only a year and a half old, calmly sub-
mitted to leave their home, the only one they
had occupied since their marriage, (twenty one
years.) From that time they had no permanent
home until they emigrated to America which they
did in 1863.
	The children all except two, the oldest and
youngest, had come before, the mother having
sent them as she could get means. This required
great faith, some of them being very young to be
entrusted to the care of strangers. But her great
desire was to have them gather to Zion and be
privillged to meet them there. The Lord heard and
answered her prayers in their behalf. For altho’
the companies, in which they came, were over-
taken with disaster, sickness and death, their
lives were all spared to meet their parents and
youngest sister when they arrived in Utah. The
oldest daughter still being in Denmark. After
some traveling around in the Territory, they
made their home in Mt Pleasant, Sanpete Co.,
where Brother Bartleson died a faithful Elder,
Sep. 20th, 1875. The remaining years of Sister
Bartleson’s life she lived a widow. She labored
in the Relief Society as a teacher for many years.
The duties of this office she falthfully fiulfilled.
One of her chief delights was to visit and relieve
the wants of the poor and needy.
	She still kept her home in Mt. Pleasant, but for
the last five and a half years previous to her
demise she had lived with her daughters, Lette
and Threna Dalley in Summit, Iron Co. She. was
afflicted with a consumptive cough for twelve
years, and the last two years of her life, she was


not able to leave her room or do anything for
her self; and her constant prayer was for the
Lord to take her home. She never feared death
any more than she would to pass from one room
to another. She passed very peacefully away
from this life on the third of April 1894, at the
residence of her daughter Lette Dalley. She
was the mother of ten children, one son and nine
daughters, all of whom survive her. She had
ninety four grand children and one hundred and
six great grand children.
	She died as she lived a faithful Latter-day
Saint and we know that she will reap the reward
of the faithful.
