RESENTATIVE WOMEN.

	The Congress of Representative Women,
A Historical Resume for Popular Circula-
tion of the World's Congress of Repre-
sentative Women, Convened in Chicago on
May 15th and adjourned on May 22—1893,
under the Auspices of the Woman's Branch
of the World's Congress Auxiliary.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer, President, Mrs.
Charles Henrotin, Vice President:
	Edited by May Wright Sewall, Chair-
man Committee on Organization.

	THIS is the title and explanation of a
book which emphatically marks the pro-
gress of the age, and which comprises as
nearly as possible the work of that wonder-
ful week of the great Congress of women
from all-parts of the world.held in Chicago.
The motto upon the vignette (which is a
very handsome one representing the world
in gilt) is "Not for Herself but for
Humanity."
	The book is dedicated “To the men and
women among her contemporaries who
‘having ears to hear,’ can understand its
message and having open minds and
generous hearts, can regard with favor the
ultimate absolutely equal copartnership
which it unmistakably foreshadows, this
work is respectfully dedicated by the
Editor."
	The book is published in two volumes
and in one, both containing the same mat-
ter but differing only in paper and style of
binding etc. These volumes are elaborately
illustrated the frontis piece is The New
Art Institute, where the Congress was held,
then the portrait of Hon. Charles C. Bon-
ney. President of the World’s Congressess
of 1893, and portraits of other members of
that committee and eminent women, Bertha
M. Honore Palmer, President Board of
Lady Managers, and Ellen M. Henrotin,
Vice President; May Wright Sewall,
Chairman Committee on Organization, and
Rachel Foster Avery, Secretary, also of Mrs.
Adlai E. Stevenson, Lady Henry Somerset,
the Countess of Aberdeen, Laura Ormiston
Chant, Frances E. Willard and Susan B.
Anthony arranged in groups are also
pictures of many others, several upon one
page. The illustrations are all very good.
	The subject matter is wonderfully well
classified considering the super-abundance
of material the editor had to deal with, and
her zeal and anxiety to make the book cover

