[Column 1]
Industries and Occupations in which the
Editor opens her comments with the remark
that “The idea is still current that as a rule
women “are supported” by men. Upon
this popular delusion the following pages
throw much light.” The speakers and
papers upon this subject represent different
nationalities and are therefore of wider
scope and broader thought than as though
presented from one part of the world. Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland, Germany, Bohemia,
and various states of the union. Elizabeth
Roselowsky, Lina Morgenstein, and Kaethe
Shirmacher gave definite information very
valuable as well as treating the general sub-
ject under discussion in a most able manner,
and as we Americans know most of the
work here in our own land, it is always a
good thing to understand what other
women are doing, to benefit and bless, and
build up elsewhere.
	The Solidarity of Human Interests is
most eloquently and intelligently treated in
a chapter which covers three hundred and
thirty-five pages. The editor states in a
sub-heading—“Illustrated by the Progress
of Women in Spain, the South American
States, England and her Dependencies; in
Poland, Italy, Siam, Iceland and Syria,
and by women of African Descent in the 
United States.” We note also France,
Denmark, Greece and New South Wales.
It would be quite impossible to give the
reader any correct idea of what may be
learned from this one chapter, and of its
true value to those interested in the great
questions, that are agitating the whole
civilized world. The editor in her pertinent
comments says: “This chapter proves that
the woman question is no longer an Ameri-
canism; that it is no longer a local question
at all; that it cannot be regarded as the
curious culminating expression of the in-
sane passion for independence characteristic
of the Angle-Saxon race.” The addresses
were delivered by women some of whom
are conspicuous among their colleagues
in America; Isabelle Bogelot of France,
Callirhoe Parren of Greece, Catalina D’-
Alcala of Spain, Nico Beck Meyer and
Kirstine Frederikson of Denmark, Helena
Modjeska, Poland. Fanny Zampini Salazer
and Sofia Bompiani of Italy, Lady Linchee
Suriza of Siam, Hanna K. Korany of Syria,
Segrid E. Magnusson of Iceland, Helen
Blackburn, England (Editor of the English-
woman’s Review, a magazine devoted to
woman’s work in its best sense,) Martha
Sesselberg, Brazil, Isabel King of the
Argentine Republic, Matilda G. DeMiro
Quesada of Peru, with many noted women
of Canada and the United States. The
next chapter is Education and Literature, as
presented in the subordinate Congresses.
One of the most notable of these is the
International Kindergarten Union given by
Sarah A. Stewart, and perhaps we ought to
mention among abstracts of papers in re-
port congresses such women as Belle Grant
Armstrong and John Strange Winter
(Henritta E. V. Stannard.) This chapter
contains many valuable papers, but it is
utterly impossible to even mention the
names of writers. Religion as treated in
the subordinate Congresses is another very
important chapter in this valuable book;
the Editor’s remarks contain much that
shows the drift of woman’s thought in the
religious world—Mrs Sewall closes her re-
marks with the Reverend Anna Shaw’s in-
spiring analysis and application of the
text” “which translated into current life

