EDITORIAL NOTES.

Mrs. Zina D. H. Young’s residence is 146,
4th, St. Salt Lake City, instead of 147.
	WE wish specially to call the attention of
our readers to CACTUS PAPER published
in this issue; we are very anxious all should
read it, as it is certainly one of the best
articles (if not the best) of its kind ever
published in the EXPONENT. It is by a
Utah girl and should therefore have more
weight. We recommend it to the remons-
trants and the women who have "all the
rights they want," and to all not yet con-
verted to the idea of equal political rights.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this stake of Zion will be held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this city
Saturday December 15th Meetings com-
mencing at ten a. m. and two p. m. as
usual. Presidents of all the branches in
this Stake are urgently requested to attend
or to have a representative present. All
officers and members of the Society are
cordially invited, also the presiding author-
ties, Bishops, and brethren who are interest-
ed in this charitable organization.
	ON Thursday November 15th, Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp gave a very pleasant party
at her residence to about thirty ladies (her
intimate friends.) The parlors were taste-
fully decorated with autumn leaves and
flowers, and the genial flow of conversation
was intensely interesting. The supper
which was daintily served was very de-
licious, and the “table-talk” was delight-
fully entertaining. After the guests re-
turned to the warm and pleasant parlors,
there was music by some of the young
women both vocal and instrumental. The
evening was occupied with a sort of spirit-
ual feast or meeting. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young presiding, the hymn “O, my
Father” was sung and Mrs. E. S. Taylor
offered prayer, after which each of the
ladies present spoke a few words, and ex-
pressed their love and appreciation of their
amiable hostess the sentiments were grace-
fully responded to by Dr. Shipp, and after a
benediction had been pronounced the party-
dispersed feeling spiritually refreshed.
	THE W. S. Associations in the several
counties, in this Territory are hereby re-
minded that the memberships are due this
present month, and the Territorial President
has been notified that the entire member-
ship must be sent on to the treasurer of the
National American W. S. A. otherwise we
shall lose our votes in the Convention during
the year 1896. Officers are urged to be as
diligent as possible in collecting and
forwarding the money with the names and
addresses of all paid up members. Uin-
tah, Iron and Washington Counties
just recently organized are exempt from
taxation this year. These lists of names
and addresses must be certified to by the
President and Recording Secretary of the
respective auxiliary W. S. A. The Terri-
torial President also requires a concise re-
port of the year’s work in each county to
be forwarded to her address, during this
month in time to include it in the yearly
report which must reach the Secretary
of the N.—A. W. S. A. before January 1st
1895.
	MRS. JENNINGS gave, her annual “Old
Ladies Afternoon Tea” on Tuesday, No-
vember 20th, at the Jennings house. It is


needless to say Mrs. Jennings entertain
handsomely, her parties whether for old or
young are always enjoyable. Her magnifi-
cent drawing room and library were decor-
ated with flowers mostly chrysanthemums
which made the elegant rooms still more
charming. The hostess was evidently de-
sirous to have every one enjoy herself,
and spared no effort to accomplish her pur-
pose, going from one group to another and
entering into conversation lively and serious
as the case might be. It is scarcely possible
to describe the “tea.” The large and
pleasant dining room was filled with small
tables set for four or six in the very dain-
tiest and cosiest style and at each place
chrysanthemums tied with pretty white rib-
bon, a souvenir to keep in remembrance of
the pleasant afternoon. Young girls fresh
and beautiful waited upon the ladies, and
the hostess serene and smiling poured the
tea, hot water or chocolate, which was
served to the forty invited guests. The hot
rolls, oyster patties, and other luxuries,
were warmly appreciated and elaborately
praised, as well as the dessert of the
choicest cakes, candies and fruits. Mrs.
Frank Jennings favored the ladies with
some musical selections while at table, and
after their return to the parlors, which added
very greatly to the enjoyment of this de-
lightful old-fashioned, old ladies tea-party.


