ECONOMY.
	ECONOMY in the home is the first step-
ping stone to wealth, happiness and success
in life. It is the doctrine of proportion
brought into practice; children are very
sensitive, they notice how mother does and
if they see her making the best use of
everything they will form habits of saving
which will be a benefit to them in their
future lives. To the poor, economy is in-
dispensable.
	Economy in the husband’s affairs is a
great help to the wife as they should both
try to live according to their income. *	*
Tea coffee and spices are unnecessary
articles and are injurious to health, as well
as a great expense. We should try to live
honestly within our own means. Mothers
should teach their children to be economical
in dress, as they themselves should be;
endless yards of ribbon and lace does not
teach economy but expense. We should
elevate their tender minds with noble
thoughts and good desires. They should
also be taught order in the house as
another attribute leading to economy, we
should have a place for everything and
everything in its place, as economy is far-
seeing contingencies and providing against
them; a word on bread as it is the staff of
life, and without it we would consider our
living very poor; pieces left on the table
after meals, also bread left from one bak-
ing to another should be browned in the
oven a delicate brown, put in a clean sack
and hung in the pantry, this furnishes nice
browned bread for milk toast, or tomato or
other kinds of soup, there are many things
that would be a saving,and a blessing to us,
and no person should despise economy; we


should cut buttons from old clothing, pick
up a pin and put it in a handy place when
needed, we should strive to economise our
time so we can have an hour or two to study
those things which will benefit us as moth-
ers; we should never buy what we do
not want, for if we buy what we do not
want, we will soon want what we cannot
buy. A penny is a small matter, yet the
comfort of thousands of families depends
on the saving and wise spending of them.
							M. M.


