WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

	“ALL the political parties of North Da-
kota have declared for woman suffrage.”
	NOT a home in Kansas has been broken
up, and probably not an iota of domestic
discord has ever resulted from municipal
suffrage for women during the past seven
years. If the women in the towns are
capable of exercising judgment and voting
their conclusions as to matters of city gov-
ernment (street improvements, police
regulations, gas, waterworks, etc,) are the
women in the country any less capable of
exercising judgment and voting their con-
victions as to bridges, court house bonds,
salaries of county officers, etc?—Lincoln
(Kan.) Beacon.
IRON CO. W. S. A.
	OUR organization was affected at Parowan
Sep. 29th, 1894, E. B. Wells, Territorial
President presiding at the meeting. E.
Crane Watson, President; Mary Ollerton
and Bessie Parry Vice Presidents were
unanimously sustained as officers of the
W. S. A. of Iron Co. Ella Rasmussen,
Rec. Sec., Minnie Adams Corresponding
Secretary. Mrs. Julia Lyman was voted
to be chairman Executive Committee. The
following named ladies were chosen as
members of the Committee. Mary
H. Dalley, Mette C. Matheson, Juliette


Adams, Josie Curtis, Ada Orton,
Gwen Mitchell, Belle Richards, Ida Smith,
and they have proven themselves a very ef-
ficient corps; since that date we have held
our meetings semi-monthly, for although
we are behind in becoming an association
we do not intend occupying that position in
our movements and advancement any
longer than we are obliged to.
	The Executive Committee also hold two
sessions each month; after our devotional
exercises we next have the Civil Govern-
ment class, take up about thirty minutes
being conducted by a different member
each time, we have a reading or recitation,
and music either vocal or instrumental on
each program, one or two short lectures,
these we alternate with the reading of a
manuscript paper, being edited by the
members in turn, once each month. We
think we are progressing finely already
realizing (to a slight degree of course) the
benefits of the W. S. A. Total enroll-
ment of fifty-two numbers.
	November 20—94, we gave a musical
and literary entertainment, an affair we are
justly proud of, the young men and ladies
assisted us with a vim that is greatly to
their credit; there were more than twenty
different parts including the reading of
“The Echo of Equal Suffrage” a number
we published for the occasion, not a jar or
sign of failure any where, this was gotten
up for the purpose of enlarging the
Treasurer’s funds sufficiently to obtain books
for the benefit of the association. We
think we have made a good beginning yet
we are only of the primary grade, and will
eagerly and gratefully accept any instruc-
tions, that our sister organizations, might
feel disposed to offer.
E. CRANE WATSON, President.


