[Column 2]
imbues with prophecy. The women that
publish the tidings” already “a great host”
are becoming an irresistible force.
	Chapter XIV—Industrial Social and
Moral Reform, as treated in the subor inate
Congresses. There are also extracts from
addresses in Report Congresses; among
these we notice the name of a famous
German woman Hanna Bieber Boehm of
Berlin, President of the large association
Jugundsckutz ,also Mrs. Bedford Fenwick of
England who represented the Royal British
Nurses Association.
	The closing chapter XV—Orders, Civil
and Political Reform, as presented in the
subordinate Congresses. The Daughters
of the American Revolution by Mrs. Adlai
E. Stevenson wife of the Vice President of
the United States. The Eastern Star, its
origin progress and development by Mary
C. Snedden of Missouri. Treating on this
subject Mrs. Snedden says. “How then
came women to be associated with exclusive
brotherhood of Masons? and what is the
relationship existing between the Masonic
fraternity and the Order of the Eastern
Star? This is an exceedingly interesting
paper, and indeed there are a number of
chapters in the book which taken singly,
are worth the price of the whole volume.
The last paper besides the editor’s conclud-
ing note and the appendix is by Rachel
Foster Avery Cor. Secretary of the
National Council of Women, of which
Mrs. May Wright Sewall is President; and
if it were possible we should very much
like to devote some space to our own ideas
of the work these two magnificent women
have done for this great Congress, that
has carried the new Gospel of women and
of humanity far and wide. In conclusion
we can only say (for language is inadequate)
as we said at first, this wonderful book, and
add that it should be in every home in the
land, and in other lands, where it would
sow the good seeds of the world’s actual
progress, and help to lead into the light of
a broader humanity, many who sit in dark-
ness, and many more who are struggling
for greater truths, and practical adaptation
of those already in their possession. For
the Editor of this stupenduous work we
have the highest commendation, and trust
that it may not only be like bread cast upon
the waters to return after many days, but
that she may realize here and hereafter the
great love and appreciation of the women
of all lands for her noble and magnanimous
work of compiling and extracting the
richest kernels of wisdom, and the finest
gems of truth from so many varied sub-
jects, and making such a harmonious chain
of the whole, linked together with golden
threads of her own fine spun materials.
	Rand McNally and Co., Chicago and
New York are the Publishers, a firm well
known and thoroughly reliable. As to the
typographical work, paper and binding it
speaks for itself, and one cannot help seeing
at once that it is all first class. The books
bound in two volumes are $5.00 per set, in
one, $3.50. That this book will find
ready sale, among those who understand
the signs of the times, is easy to predict.
It is a work which requires thought and
will also produce thought, and lead to higher
and better things. We heartily recommend 
the book to the reading public, and would
gladly see it put upon the Salt Lake mar-
ket, feeling certain that wherever it is read
it will awaken noble sentiments and ad-
vanced views of life its aims and objects.


