[Column 1]
	History reveals how signally man has
failed in keeping his part of the covenant,
except at long intervals when for a brief
season, the pure religion of Christ has held
sway upon the earth. It also shows how
that the stronger vessel has demanded of
the weaker, to the uttermost farthing, the
payment of the penalty passed upon her
for her transgression. “Thy desire shall
be to thy husband, and he shall rule over
thee.” For near six thousand years, the
sighs and prayers and heart-yearnings of
His daughters, for something better, have
ascended to the throne of a just and merci-
ful Parent. Doubt not but His ears have
heard, and His heart responded to their
cries. 
	This is an age of marvelous happenings.
It is an age of preparation for something 
better than the world has ever known. It
fore-shadows a time when the trammels of
sin are to be broken, and the results of dis-
obedience done away; when man and wo-
man, by fulfilling a certain law, can be
restored to their pristine glory and exal-
tation.
	Therefore I contend that the movement 
for Woman’s Suffrage presages her release
from the curse placed upon her in Eden;
that it is a sign of the times, as well as is
the restoration of the Gospel, and that to
fight against it, is to array ourselves in op-
position to the purposes of the Almighty.
	The cry is raised against woman enter-
ing the ranks of wage-earners, because she
consents to work at cheaper rates than men
can afford to do who have families depend-
ing upon them. This may be true, but can
any just mind condemn the poor worm from
rebelling, when driven to the last extremity,
and turning to account the very means
which have been used to hold her down, to
further the end of her emancipation. Hun-
dreds of women have been made earnest
equal suffragists for this reason alone, that
they have been expected to do the same
amount of work as a man in as creditable a
manner, and for half the remuneration.
Think not however, that this will be a last-
ing condition. Once installed on a sure
foundation, and woman will demand as high
a price for her labors as any man. The
question of preference will then be one of
capability and integrity, as it should be,
and not of dollars and cents.
	The old plea that the ballot for women
will admit so many immoral women to
power is indeed becoming monotonous.
Let the four times eighty thousand 
prostitute makers of New York City purify
themselves, body and soul and where
would be your eighty thousand prostitutes?
Immorality would die a natural death, and
brothel keepers sink in the ruins of bank-
ruptry.
	Show me the woman, born of virtuous
parentage, who would lead the life of a
prostitute from choice, and you will show
me an anomaly in nature. Where is the
most degraded among them who would not
gladly reform to become the honorable wife
of a reformed and honorable man?
	Ah, my friends, it is social vice and
degradation, not woman’s suffrage, which
has undermined the social structure. It
has befouled the stream and polluted the
fountain of life until it is an eyesore to the
vision and a stench in the nostrils of the
pure in heart. Let the rotten fabric be
rent asunder! let Babylon fall! let fire from
heaven devour its ruins! And from its
ashes, let there arise, like the far-famed
Phoenix of old, a structure “pure as the

