[Column 2]
spiration from her melodies; and re-echoing
her touching notes he awoke the heart of
the world to her wondrous symphonies
We may look upon him as a simile of
spring, for in the presence of his spirit we
feel the gladdening rays of the sun; hear
the twitter of the birds in the blossoming
branches, and see the rainbow covering
that clothes the earth anew.
	His comprehensive sympathies were
attuned to the great throbbing heart of
humanity, as well as to the beauties of ex-
ternal nature. He felt with it—and for it,
in all its multitudinous variety of emotions.
And his wit, charity and sympathy, as his
love of field and flowers, became contagious
to his readers. This was his happy faculty:
the charm of his great genius.
	His writings may be classed under three
periods; each one being characterized by
distinctive elements. First is the French
period; in the writing of which is plainly
detected the influence of the gay romantic
poetry of Fance; imbibed by the Author
during his stay in that country. In the
productions of this period there is a pen-
sive undertone suggestive of an unrequited
or luckless love, which is thought to fur-
nish the key note to the poet’s early life.
	His second period is called the Italian,
for the reason that the writings classed un-
der that heading are bright reflections of
the cultivated literature of that country,
which he visited more than once; becoming
acquainted and charmed with some of its
most celebrated poets from whom he first
learned the range and scope of poetry and
how to tell a tale exquisitely. From the
works of these poets he subsequently made
translations and in some cases as in Boc-
caccio’s Troylus and Creseide, extensive ad-
dition of his own.
	But ’tis in the third or last period that he
throws off these foreign influences retain-
ing all their culture, and becomes the true
English bard whom we love. ‘Tis in this
period that he blends the languages, charm-
ing court and populace with his tales of
endless variety. In this period his mood
changes. The sorrowing sentiment of his
early love is left behind with his youth,
while his soul o’erflows with delightful
merriment. This is the humorous Chaucer
of the Canterbury Tales.
	On these same Tales does his fame chiefly
rest; for in them is comprised a wonderful
variety of subjects and diversity of treat-
ment. In them he depicts with the skill of
a master, the idiosyncrasies of classes, yet
alway with a breadth of charity untinged by
the slightest shade of cynicism. They were
to have been forty eight in number supposed
to be related by a company of Pilgrims who
were wont to journey from London to
Canterbury to pay their devotions at the
shrine of St. Thomas. The company
starting from a London Inn, were each to
tell two tales, one going and one on the
homeward trip, But this gigantic work
was not fully completed.
 	Not only as a poet, an artist, as England’s
first real disciple of the Muse, has Chaucer
a claim to our esteem and admiration, but,
unlike too many of the literary lights who
succeeded him, his character as a man is be-
yond reproach. He was a true gentleman.
kind, moral, chivalrous to women and
patient in adversity. Though born in the
middle ranks of society he attained to
positions of honor and trust in the govern-
ment of his country, and, at seven dif-
ferent times was intrusted with diplomatic
commissions abroad. Indeed his abilities

[Column 3]
seem to have been unusually versatile for
so great a genius in his own particular
line.
	He was a real benefactor to his own
generation, and has been a source of in-
spiration to the generations that have fol-
lowed. And, as the forerunner of a grand
procession of English singers, his name
will ever be held in high esteem, by all
lovers of the divine art of poesy.
	He died as he had lived, in the great
busy heart of London, and in the shadow
of Westminister Abbey, where his remains
were laid to rest; first, of the grand family
of great English bards whose tablets have
since found a niche in the poet’s corner of
that monument of fame.
