GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 95
(b) The Psalms of David of which the 23rd and 24th are great favorites.
(c) The Songs and Proverbs of Solomon often referred to as wisdom literature.
(d) The Book of Job of which it has been said, "There is nothing choicer in the world of literature."
(e) The stories of Ruth and Esther each of which ranks among the best stories to be found.
D. Historical (a) The greatest volume of sacred history known, and the world is indebted to it for much of its other history and literature, it being a source of both information and inspiration. The Old Testament is wholly a product of the Mosaic dispensation.
E. Human Welfare. (a) An unimpeachable testimony of national life, declaring that heroic loyalty to the Lord is the pathway of prosperity, and that surrender to sin spells captivity.
(b) The strengthening of the northern races through the introduction of Hebrew blood.
(c) The production of two of the most favored women who ever lived.
1. The mother of the greatest prophet ever born. And
2. The mother of the Son of God.
Questions and Problems
1. Give an example of a whole-hearted devotion to God such as is requested by the first commandment.
2. Give specific evidence that the children of Israel had absorbed some of the Egyptian idolatry.
3. What is broadcasted into the universe by profanity?
4. Whose work are we to do in six days?
5. Show that tolerating disobedience in children is a great injustice to them.
6. Discuss the present day crime of careless killing.
7. Discuss: The sixth commandment provides for the preservation of life, the seventh provides for having life worth preserving.
8. Show how industry is related to the eighth commandment.
9. Connect the ninth commandment up with this thought gem: "O to breathe each tale we've heard is far beneath a noble mind."
10. When does a person steal without taking anything?
11. Prove that Christian virtues of returning good for evil,


doing good to those who hate you and loving your neighbor as yourself, were required during the Mosaic dispensation.
12. Give scriptural proof that Elizabeth was the mother of the greatest prophet born of woman.
Work and Business
TEACHER'S TOPIC ?HOME TALKS
Organization of the Church
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the most perfectly organized institution on the earth at the present time.
I. The Restoration of the Priesthood.
1. The Aaronic Priesthood. A. Deacons. B. Teachers. C. Priests. D. The specific duties of each.
2. The Melchizedek Priesthood. A. Apostles. B. Patriarchs or Evangelist. C. High Priest. D. Seventy. E. Elder. F. Specific duties of each.
II. By the authority of the Priesthood the Church of Christ was again organized. 1. When organized. 2. Where organized. 3. By whom organized.
III. The General Authorities of the Church. 1. The First Presidency. 2. The Council of the Twelve Apostles. 3. The Presiding Patriarch. 4. The First Seven Presidents of Seventy. 5. The Presiding Bishopric. 6. The Specific Duties of each.
IV. The Local Authorities. 1. The Stake. A. The Stake Presidency. B. The High Council. C. The Stake Patriarchs. D. The duties of each. 2. The Ward. A. The Bishopric. B. Priests. C. Teachers. D. Deacons. E. Duties of each.
V. Helps in Government or Auxiliaries.
1. The Relief Society.
2. The Sunday School.
3. The Mutual Improvement Association.
4. The Primary Associations.
5. The function of each in the Church.
References: Articles of Faith, Lecture XI; Talmage. Doc. And Cov. Sec. 20.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 97
LESSON III
Literature (Third Week in April)
BOOTH TARKINGTON
Some of Booth Tarkington's biographers declare that he was destined to be a writer, escape in his case being impossible as he had among his ancestors ministers of note while he himself was given to sketching, which is another way of saying that an unusual number of men of letters have descended from lines of ministers and that an unusual number of writers have been clever at sketching. Booth Tarkington is not the first prominent member of his family, for three or four generations before him his ancestors had done credit to the city of Indianapolis and the State of Indiana.
Newton Booth Tarkington, who at one time signed his name N. Booth, was born in the city of Indianapolis, Indiana in 1869. His environment has colored his life very much. Of Indianapolis Mr. Nicholson: "The man across the street or next door will share any good thing he has with you, whether it be a cure for rheumatism, a new book, or the garden hose, and it is a town where doing as one likes is not a mere possibility, but is an inherent right."
A matter that has always been very singular to people not living in Indiana, is the fact that without an exception, writers of the Hoosier state grow eloquent about the beauty of that part of the country and particularly the climate, when as a matter of fact most people visiting Indiana think it is flat, monotonous and generally devoid of scenic attractions. But to people who have lived at its hearth-stones, taken part in its community life, eaten the products of its soil, Indiana seems to have a fascination and a charm not understood by others outside.
Booth Tarkington's people were well to do so that he has not had the struggle of the poor boy. His education was obtained first at Exeter Academy, later Purdue University at La Fayette, Indiana, and finally he finished his college career at aristocratic Princeton. College life was native atmosphere to him, he seemed as much at home in college as the fish seems in water. His companions never thought of him as a grind. He carried his course with credit and without very much hard work, due to his richly endowed mind. He was in everything going on, combining as he did a number of rare gifts, being a writer, orator and singer of the first order. He was very helpful on the college magazine and has the reputation for having put the Princeton Tiger, the comic paper of the University, on its feet; he too was known conspicuously in college circles for his singing. He wrote the prize class song, sang and traveled with the Glee Club, in which he was the


soloist and for which he wrote many songs. He set Poe's Raven to music. He seems to have made a particular hit singing Kipling's ballad; "The Hanging of Danny Deever." He seemed to have his own interpretation of this song, practically every occasion, where he was present, some would call out, "Tark! Tark! Danny Deever!" and he would have to respond. He was fond of outdoor sports, a loyal supporter of the athletic team, and so enthusiastic that even now he usually finds time to get to Princeton for the foot ball season.
For many years he was looked upon as something of an idler in the city, taking part in whatever the city was doing in a public way and making himself particularly useful when Indianapolis was the host for some attractive woman from another locality. In fact Booth Tarkington seemed to have so much leisure time at his disposal that he was something of a town joke. The keen observer might have noticed that Tarkington burned the midnight oil and while others were comfortably tucked away in their beds, Tarkington was learning the very difficult art of effective writing.
Dickens has the reputation of writing a good deal about things that people eat. Tarkington's people sing. Mr. Robert C. Holliday in commenting on this fact says: "Mr. Tarkington's lovers sing; and, of all lovers, all the world must love most a singing lover. Throughout his pages serenaders nightly seek the garden with instrumental plunkings." Or, there is wafted to the ear of the rapt one without the music of a clear, soft voice within welling the "Angels' Serenade." His drunken men sing,? and that is about the most winning thing a drunken man can do. His Sunday School classes sing."
He has given us a list of the English authors he preferred. They are: Meredith, Stevenson, James, Wells Bennett and Hardy. Some critics think they have discovered in his earlier writings some likeness to both James and Stevenson.
Booth Tarkington has usually impressed people as being an extremely normal individual. He is said to admire all the things "which decent ordinary simple hearted persons admire: courage, honesty, honor, feminine virtue, graciousness and beauty, etc. He hates precisely those things hated by all honest American people: "Sham, egotism, conceit, cruelty, affectation and so on."
The Gentleman From Indiana, called Booth Tarkington's first novel, gives us a picture of life in Indiana, which is full of sympathy for the people presented. To quote from one of his biographer's, his purpose was chiefly "to paint a sympathetic picture of contemporary life in the Ohio Valley. He presented the semi-urban type celebrated in Riley's verse." His presentation is made in the same kindly spirit that Riley writes his verse. The story is not the chief interest in The Gentleman From Indiana, but rather the characters that are portrayed.
Tarkington admits that his most popular books have been so
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 99
by accident. For instance, in the case of Monsieur Beaucaire, he wrote a romantic story just at the time the romantic revival occurred, at the end of the 19th century. This practically assured the popularity of the book. It was the period of time when Charles Major's Knighthood Was in Flower, was popular, and when the public was reading Dr. S. Weir Mitchell's Hugh Wynne and Maurice Thompson's Alice of Old Vincennes. Be it said to the credit of Booth Tarkington's romance, that while the other books have fallen practically into disuse, his book is still selling and is frequently called for in the public library.
In a recent lesson we spoke of Mark Twain's ability to interest boys in such stories as Tom Sawyer, Huckleberry Finn. In books like Penrod, and Seventeen, Tarkington, to use his own words, "getting on the inside," has got on the inside of his boys in a way that seems almost unbelievable. To quote Mr. Holliday on this point: "Mr. Tarkington's interpretation of the creature, boy, has a weird quality; and, one has an uncanny feeling, his studies in boy psychology call for some sort of a pathological explanation. In effect his analysis of the utterly mad workings of the boy's mind and the throbbing of his inflamed nerves is as if a boy himself had suddenly become endowed with the faculty of thinking it out aloud. That is, the author's interpretation of the boy, moving about in what is to him the cataclysm of life, does not so much seem to be the work of a mind observing him from without, as it appears to be a voice from within explaining the matter, the voice of a boy uniquely gifted with the power of self analysis. It is as if the author had a device in his head like the plumbing giving hot and cold water to a bath-tub and as if he could at will turn off the stream of mature thinking and turn on the boy thinking. And to recapture the sensations of twelve or of seventeen is exactly what the normal adult mind cannot do. The author of Penrod and William Baxter certainly is not as other men; he commands some occult power. And the joke of this mystery is that Mr. Tarkington says boy stories are the "easiest" things to write there are. He can "do any of them" in a day and a half. And he thinks that "anybody could do it."
We insert here one chapter from Seventeen which we feel sure will remind mothers of experiences somewhat similar.
Chapter 12?Progress of the Symptoms
Mrs. Baxter's little stroke of diplomacy had gone straight to the mark; she was a woman of insight. For every reason she was well content to have her son spend his evenings at home, though it cannot be claimed that his presence enlivened the household, his condition being one of strange, trance-like irascibility. Evening after evening passed, while he sat dreaming painfully of Mr. Parcher's porch; but in the daytime, though William did not literally make hay while the sun shone, he at least gathered a


harvest somewhat resembling hay in general character. Thus:
One afternoon, having locked his door to secure himself against intrusion on the part of his mother or Jane, William seated himself at his writing-table, and from a drawer therein took a small cardboard box, which he uncovered, placing the contents in view before him upon the table. (How meager, how chilling a word is "contents"!)
In the box were: A faded rose. Several other faded roses, disintegrated into leaves. Three withered "four leaf clovers." A white ribbon still faintly smelling of violets. A small silver shoe buckle. A large pearl button. A small pearl button. A tortoise-shell hair-pin. A cross-section from the heel of a small slipper. A stringy remnant, probably once an improvised wreath of daisies. Four or five withered dandelions. Other dried vegetation, of a nature now indistinguishable.
William gazed reverently upon this junk of precious souvenirs; then from the inner pocket of his coat he brought forth, warm and crumpled, a lumpish cluster of red geranium blossoms, still aromatic and not quite dead, though naturally, after three hours of such intimate confinement, they wore an unmistakable look of suffering.
With a tenderness which his family had never observed in him since that piteous day in his fifth year when he tried to mend his broken doll, William laid the geranium blossoms in the cardboard box among the botanical and other relics. His gentle eyes showed what the treasures meant to him, and yet it was strange that they should have meant so much, because the source of supply was not more than a quarter of a mile distant, and practically inexhaustible. Miss Pratt had now been a visitor at the Parchers for something less than five weeks, but she had made no mention of prospective departure, and there were every reason to suppose that she meant to remain all summer. And as any foliage or anything whatever that she touched, or that touched her, was thenceforth suitable for William's museum, there appeared to be some probability that autumn might see it so enlarged as to lack the rarity in the component items which is the underlying value of most collections.
William's writing-table was beside an open window, through which came an insistent whirring, unagreeable to his mood; and, looking down upon the sunny lawn, he beheld three lowly creatures.
One was Genesis; he was cutting the grass. Another was Clematis; he had assumed a transient attitude curiously triangular,
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 101
in order to scratch his ear, the while his anxious eyes never wavered from the third creature. This was Jane. In one hand she held a little stack of sugar-sprinkled wafers, which she slowly but steadily depleted, unconscious of the increasingly earnest protest, at last nearing agony, in the eyes of Clematis.
Wearing unaccustomed garments of fashion and festivity, Jane stood, in speckless, starchy white and a blue sash, watching the lawn-mower spout showers of grass as the powerful Genesis easily propelled it along overlapping lanes, back and forth, across the yard.
From a height of illimitable loftiness the owner of the cardboard treasury looked down upon the squat commonplaceness of those three lives. The condition of Jane and Genesis and Clematis seemed almost laughably pitiable to him, the more so because they were unaware of it. They breathed not the starry air that William breathed, but what did it matter to them? The wretched things did not even know that they meant nothing to Miss Pratt!
Clematis found his ear too pliable for any great solace from his foot, but he was not disappointed; he had expected little, and his thoughts were elsewhere. Rising, he permitted his nose to follow his troubled eyes, with the result that it touched the rim of the last wafer in Jane's external possession.
This incident annoyed William. "Look there!" he called from the window. "You mean to eat that cake after the dog's had his face on it?"
Jane remained placid. "It wasn't his face."
"Well, if it wasn't his face, I'd like to know what?"
"It wasn't his face," Jane repeated. "It was his nose. It wasn't all of his nose touched it, either. It was only a little outside piece of his nose."
"Well, are you going to eat that cake, I ask you?"
Jane broke off a small bit of the wafer. She gave the bit to Clematis and slowly ate what remained, continuing to watch Genesis and apparently unconscious of the scorching gaze from the window.
"I never saw anything as disgusting as long as I've lived!" William announced. "I wouldn't 'a believed it if anybody'd told me a sister of mine would eat after?"
"I didn't," said Jane. "I like Clematis, anyway."
"Ye gods!" her brother cried. "Do you think that makes it any better? And, by the way," he continued, in a tone of even greater severity, "I'd like to know where you got those cakes. Where'd you get 'em, I'd just like to enquire?"
"In the pantry."
Jane turned and moved toward the house. "I'm goin' in for some more now."
William uttered a cry; these little cakes were sacred. His mother, growing curious to meet a visiting lady of whom (so to speak) she had heard much and thought more, had asked May


Parcher to bring her guest for iced tea, that afternoon. A few others of congenial age had been invited; there was to be a small matinee, in fact, for the honor and pleasure of the son of the house, and the cakes of Jane's onslaught were part of Mrs. Baxter's preparations. There was no telling where Jane would stop; it was conceivable that Miss Pratt herself might go waferless.
William returned the cardboard box to its drawer with reverent haste; then, increasing the haste, but dropping the reverence, he hied himself to the pantry with such advantage of longer legs that within the minute he and the wafers appeared in conjunction before his mother, who was arranging fruit and flowers upon a table in the "living-room."
William entered in the stained-glass attitude of one bearing gifts. Overhead, both hands supported a tin pan, well laden with small cakes and wafers, for which Jane was silently but repeatedly and systematically jumping. Even under the stress of these efforts her expression was cool and collected; she maintained the self-possession that was characteristic of her. Not so with William; his cheeks were flushed, his eyes indignant.
"You see what this child is doing?" he demanded. "Are you going to let her ruin everything?"
"Ruin?" Mrs. Baxter repeated, absently, refreshing with fair water a bowl of flowers upon the table. "Ruin?"
"Yes ruin!" William was hotly emphatic. "If you don't do something with her, it'll all be ruined before Miss Pr?before they even get here!"
Mrs. Baxter laughed. "Set the pan down, Willie."
"Set it down?" he echoed, incredulously. "With that child in the room and grabbing like?"
"There!" Mrs. Baxter took the pan from him, placed it upon a chair, and with utmost coolness selected five wafers and gave them to Jane. "I'd already promised her she could taste five more. You know the doctor said Jane's digestion was the finest he'd ever misunderstood. They won't hurt her at all, Willie."
This deliberate misinterpretation of his motives made it difficult for William to speak. "Do you think," he began, hoarsely, "do you think?"
"They're so small, too," Mrs. Baxter went on. "She probably wouldn't be sick if she ate them all."
"My heavens!" He burst forth. "Do you think I was worrying about?" He broke off, unable to express himself save by a few gestures of despair. Again finding his voice, and a great deal of it, he demanded: "Do you realize that Miss Pratt will be here within less than half an hour? What do you suppose she'd think of the people of this town if she was invited out, expecting decent treatment, and found two-thirds of the cakes
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 103 eaten up before she got there, and what was left of 'em all mauled and pawed over and crummy and chewed-up looking from some wretched child?" Here William became oratorical, but not with marked effect, since Jane regarded him with unmoved eyes, while Mrs. Baxter continued to be mildly preoccupied in arranging the table. In fact throughout this episode in controversy the ladies' party had not only the numerical but the emotional advantage. Obviously the approach of Miss Pratt was not to them what it was to Willian). "I tell you," he exclaimed?''yes, I tell you that it wouldn't take much of this kind of thing to make Miss Pratt think the people of this town were?well, it wouldn't take much to make her think the people of this town hadn't learned much of how to behave in society and were pretty uncivilized! And to think Miss Pratt has to find that out in my house! To think?" "Now, Willie,' said Mrs. Baxter, gently, "you'd better go up and brush your hair again before your friends come. You mustn't let yourself get so excited." "Excited." he cried, incredtilously. "Do you think I'm excited? Ye gods!" He smote his hands together and, in his despair of her intelligence, would have flung himself down upon a chair, but was arrested half-way by simultaneous loud outcries from his mother and Jane. "Don it sit on the cakes!" they both screamed. Saving himself and the pan of wafers by a supreme contortion at the last instant, William decided to remain upon his feet. "What do I care for the cakes?" he demanded, contemptuously, beginning to pace the floor. "It's the question of principle I'm talking about! Do you think it's right to 'give the people of this town a poor name when strangers like Miss Pratt come to vis?" "Willie!" His mother looked at him hopelessly. "Do go and brush your hair. If you could see how you've tousled it you would."; He gave her a dazed glance and strode from the room. Jane looked after him placidly. "Didn't he talk funny!" she murmured. "Yes, dear,' said Mrs. Baxter She shook her head and uttered the enigmatic words, "They do." "I mean 'Willie, mama," said Jane. "If its anything about Miss Pratt, he always talks awful funny. Don't you think Willie talks awful funny if it's anything about Miss Pratt, mama?" "Yes, but?" "What, mama?" Jane asked as her mother paused. "Well?it happens. People do get like that at his age, Jane." "Does everybody?" "No, I suppose not everybody. Just some." Jane's interest was aroused. ''Well, do those that do, mama," she inquired, "do they all act like Willie?" 
 "No," said Mrs. Baxter. "That's the trouble; you can't tell what's coming." Jane nodded "I think I know," she said. "You mean Willie?" William himself interrupted her. He returned violently to the doorway, his hair still tousled, and, standing upon the threshold, said, sternly: "What is that child wearing her best dress for?" "Willie! Mrs. Baxter cried. "Go brush your hair!" "I wish to know what that child is all dressed up for?' he insisted. "To tplease you! Don't you want her to look her best at your tea?" "T thought that was it! He cried, and upon this confirmation of his worst fears he did increased Violence to his rumpled hair. I suspected it, but I wouldn't 'a believed it! You mean to let this child?you mean to let?-' Here his agitation affected his throat and his utterance became clouded. A few detached phrases fell from him: 'Invite my friends?childrens party?ye gods! ?think Miss Pratt plays dolls? "Jane will be very good," his mother said. "I shouldn't think of not having her, Willie, and you needn't bother about your friends; they'll be very glad to see her. They all know her, except Miss Pratt, perhaps, and?'. Mrs. Baxter paused; then she asked, absently: "By the way, haven't I heard somewhere that she likes pretending to be a little girl, herself?" "What!" "Yes," said Mrs. Baxter, remaining calm); "I'm sure I've heard somewhere that she likes to talk 'baby-talk.'" Upon this a tremor passed over William, after which he became rigid. "You ask a lady to your house," he began, "and even before she gets here before you've even seen her, you pass judgment upon one of the?one of the noblest?" "Good gracious! I haven't passed judgment. If she does talk 'baby-talk,' I imagine she does it very prettily, and I'm sure I've no objection. And if she does do it, why should you be insulted by my mentioning it?" "Tt was the way you "said it," he informed her icily. "Good gracious! I just said it!" Mrs. Baxter laughed, and then, probably a little out of patience with him she gave way to that innate mischievousness i in such affairs which is not unknown to her sex. "You see, Willie, if she pretends to be a cunning little girl, it will be helpful to Jane to listen and learn how." William uttered a cry; he knew that he was struck, but he was not sure how or where. He was left with a blank mind and no repartee. Again he dashed from the room. In the hall, near the open front door, he came to a sudden halt, and Mrs. Baxter and Jane heard him calling loudly to the industrious Genesis: GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 105 "Here '! You go cut the grass in the back yard, and for Heaven's sake, take that dog with you!" "Grass awready cut roun' hack," responded the amiable voice of Genesis, while the lawn-mower ceased not to whirr. "Cut all 'at back yod 's mawnin'." "Well, you can't cut the front yard now. Go around in the back yard and take that dog with you." "Nemmine *bout 'at back yod! Ole Clem ain' trouble nobody." "You hear what I tell you?" William shouted. "You do what I say and you do it quick!" Genesis laughed gaily. "I got my grass to cut!" "You decline to do what I command you?" 'William roared. "Yes indeedy! Who pay me my wages? 'At's my boss. You' ma say, 'Genesis, you git all 'at lawn mowed b'fo sundown.' No, suh! Nee'n' was'e you bref on me, 'cause I'm got all my time good an' take up!" Once more William presented himself fatefully to his mother. And Jane. "May I just kindly ask you to look out in the front yard?" "T'm familiar with it, Willie,' Mrs. Baxter returned, a little wearily. "I mean I want you to look at Genesis." "Tm 'familiar with his appearance, too," she said. "Why in the world do you mind his cutting the grass?" ? William groaned. "Do you honestly want guests coming' to this house to see that awful old darky out there and know that he's the kind of servants we employ? Ye gods!" "Why, Genesis is just a neighborhood outdoors darky, Willie; he works for half a dozen families besides us. Everybody in this part of town knows him." "Yes," he cried, "but a lady that didn't live here wouldn't. Ye gods! What do you suppose she would think? You know what he's got on!" "It's a sort of sleeveless jersey he wears, Willie, I think." "No, you don't think that!" he cried, with great bitterness. "You know it's not a jersey! You know perfectly well what it is, and yet you expect to keep him out there when?when one of the ?one of the noble?when my friends arrive! And they'll think that's our dog out there, won't they? When intelligent people come to a house and see a dog sitting out in front, they think it's the family in the house's dog, don't they?" William's condition becoming more and more disordered, he paced the room, while his agony rose to a climax. "Ye gods! What do you think Miss Pratt will think of the people of this town, when she's invited to meet a few of my friends and the first thing she sees is a nigger in his undershirt? What'll she think when she finds that child's 
 eaten up half the food, and the people have to explain that the dog in the front yard belongs to the darkey?" He interrupted himself with a groan: "And prob'ly she wouldn't believe it. Anybody'd say they didn't own a dog like that! And that's what you want her to see, before she even gets inside the house! Instead of a regular gardener in livery like we ought to have, and a bulldog or a good Airedale or a fox-hound, or something, the first things you want intelligent people from out of town to see are that awful darky and his mongrel scratchin' fleas and like as not lettin' em get on other people! That'd be nice, wouldn't it? Go out to tea expecting decent treatment and get fl?" "Willie!" Mrs. Baxter managed to obtain his attention. "If you'll go and brush your hair I'll send Genesis and Clematis away for the rest of the afternoon. And then if you'll sit down quietly and try to keep cool until your friends get here, ?Quietly '" he echoed, shaking his head over this mystery. "I'm the only one that is quiet around here. Things'd be in a fine condition to receive guests if I didn't keep pretty cool, I guess!" "There, there," she said, soothingly. "Go and brush your hair. And change your collar, Willie; it's all wilted. I'll send Genesis away." His wandering eyes failed to meet hers with any intelligence. "Collar," he muttered, as if in soliloquy. "Collar." "Change it!" said Mrs. Baxter, raising her voice. "It's wilted." He departed in a dazed manner. Passing through the hall, he paused abruptly, his eyes having fallen with sudden disapproval upon a large, heavily framed, glass covered engraving. "The Battle of Gettysburg," which hung upon the wall, near the front door. Undeniably, it was a picture feeble in decorative quality; no doubt, too, William was right in thinking it as unworthy of Miss Pratt, as were Jane and Genesis and Clematis. He felt that she must never see it, especially as the frame had been chipped and had a corner broken, but it was more effective where he found it than where (in his nervousness) he left it. A few hasty jerks snapped the elderly green cords by which it was suspended; then he laid the picture upon the floor and with his handherchief, made a curious labyrinth of avenues in the large oblong area of fine dust which this removal disclosed upon the wall. Pausing to wipe his hot brow with the same implement, he remembered that some one had made allusions to his collar and hair, whereupon he sprang to the stairs, mounted two at a time, rushed into his own room, and confronted his streaked image in the mirror. In The Turmoil Mr. Tarkington turns from his respective roles of singer, poet, orator, psychologist and becomes a socialogist. The Turmoil is a protest against the lust for power and GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 107 wealth and a disposition to create and pay homage to mere bigness, as one often finds it exemplified in big cities. Tarkington claims that such an attitude is sure to develop a sort of spiritual, physical, and mental degeneration. We feel sure our readers will appreciate the following bit of criticism on The Turmoil: "The Turmoil is all of a piece; it drives unswervingly to its appointed end. There is not a touch of claptrap, or melodrama, of purple, in it." "It has grown, in effect, as naturally as a tree; and it has the swing and rugged balance, and careless symmetry which (contrary to some artistic theories), Nature has. The career of Sheridan is portrayed with the same sort of "composition" that exists in life (was there not "Composition" in the life of Napoleon?) and more. Behind The Turmoil everywhere is a remarkable, an amazing, pounding energy of mind. The vehemence of the satire curls the reader's hair. The evolution of the theme, so natural in effect, is positively devilish in its completeness. The idea there elaborated is exhibited kicking with all its four legs in a manner that, one cannot resist saying, could not possibly be better. And the characters are no box of tricks, but people, everyone, hot off the bat, with uncommonly human "'insides." And over all is a moving feeling of appreciation of what is fine and a compassion for what is absurd and pitiable." Questions and Problems 1. Call to mind some author whose fore-fathers have been clergymen; also some author who has been skillful in sketching. (If you do not get the answer after a moderate amount of thought on the subject, let it pass.) 2. Have one of the members of the Organization review one of Booth Tarkington's books: The Gentleman From Indiana, Penrod, Monsieur Beaucaire, Intimate Strangers, The Turmoil, Seventeen, The Man from Home. In case you are unable to get any of the books mentioned in this list, review any one of Booth Tarkington's books that you are able to obtain. 3. Mark passages indicative of the subtle humor in the chapter from Seventeen, published in the lesson.; 4. Discuss the problem of adolescence: Are you reminded in any way of your own personal experience by the manner in which William Baxter talks? 5. Booth Tarkington has the reputation of giving us only women of standards and refinement; Does the mother of Baxter, as portrayed in the chapter published, sustain his reputation? 6. Do you agree with Booth Tarkington that extremely large cities are prone to produce decadent individuals? 7. Monsieur Beaucaire, Penrod, Seventeen, and The Turmoil, while all different in character, have all proved exceptionally popular books. Do you think the personality of Booth Tarkington may account for much of this popularity, if so why? 
 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in April) PHYSICAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD CLARA AND HARRIET The study of Clara is an especially interesting one because her physical defects present two serious and common problems of childhood?namely, speech defect and heart disease. The most striking features of this history, however, is the fact that the existence of the child's more serious ailment?the heart or cardiac disease?was unknown and unsuspected by the parents when Clara was taken to the clinic. The child was taken for examination for the less serious but more obvious speech defect. Had the physician merely outlined exercises to develop muscular control without making a complete physical examination, the serious heart condition may have continued without treatment for some time. A great emphasis is being placed by the medical profession on regular, thorough physical examinations. Every study in our text shows that the patient is not examined only for the suspected disease, nor are only the obvious symptoms noted. Each patient is given a complete study, including eyes, ears, throat, chest, abdominal, muscular, glandular and, frequently certain routine clinical tests. Such examinations, especially for children, are recognized as intelligent preventive medicine, for the successful treatment of many of the serious diseases depends on early discovery. These studies are sometimes termed "health examinations," showing that the purpose is to examine apparently healthy children with the purpose of keeping them well and forstalling the development of disease and defects. A standard set by some health experts is a yearly examination. A slogan which has been introduced and become generally familiar is, "Have a-health examination on your birthday," because the emphasis is being placed on preserving health, rather than treating diseases after they have developed; such health clinics are now considered an essential part of a community health program. Clara's opportune examination for an impairment of speech, revealed an unsuspected heart condition.. Perhaps if the parents had been more observing, they would have been alarmed earlier. The child's pulse had been rapid on two previous illnesses, on both occasions at the time Clara had tonsilitis. It is now quite generally recognized that there is a relation between heart trouble and tonsilitis, and that frequently there is complication of rheumatism. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 109 Our text states, too, that an uncontrolled muscular condition, chorea (St. Vitus Dance), is often associated with these three diseases. All tonsil infection does not necessarily end in heart trouble or rheumatism, but the appearance of one is sufficient symptom to have examination for the others. In Clara's case, perhaps, if the tonsils had been removed at her first attack her heart may have remained normal. The mention of chorea, undoubtedly suggests familiar childhood difficulties. The picture of the uncontrolled muscles, of the twitching face, and of the nervous and easily fatigued child is a common one. Rest, fresh air and perhaps medication, including the removal of infected teeth and tonsils may be only part of the treatment. Muscular control, sometimes, must be restored by corrective exercise and re-education. The treatment needed for Clara at this stage of the disease. Includes not only the removal of the tonsils, but a long period of rest. Whether this time should be spent at home or in a hospital depends on the nature of the home and the community's facilities for hospitalization. In some cities special wards or convalescent homes offer rest, special diet, and close supervision needed by cardiac patients. "A patient there can receive better care than is possible in a busy home, particularly if there are other children playing about, and the mother is | occupied with many other household tasks. Clara's schooling will, of course, be discontinued for a time and later will have to be modified to suit her capabilities. She, perhaps, will learn some trade that does not require great activity, as her handicap will be one she must adjust to throughout her life. Clara's minor ailment, the speech impairment, may improve with the betterment of her health. She, however, may need some special instructing and training in muscular control. The discussion in our text of speech defectives makes some surprising revelations. That three percent of all school children, or a total of 500,000 children, have some speech defect, indicates that it is a very common problem and one that is not receiving much attention either in the schools or by the medical profession. The causes of speech defect are many and therefore no general treatment can be outlined. Speech defect is common among the feeble-minded and the deaf, but they represent only a small part of the total. Persons with malformations of the mouth frequently have speech difficulties, and may need operative measures before correction can be made. But the majority of persons with speech defects have been found to respond to training, based on muscular and nervous control. It is obvious that a person with a speech defect is handicapped 
 His economic opportunities are naturally limited to occupations where speech is not essential (which would eliminate teaching, clerking, practice of law, salesmanship, etc.). Besides the vocational handicap, the individual suffers much embarrassment, and may become shy and retiring or embittered and belligerent?behavior that results from any keen feeling of inferiority. As our author states, the treatment of the speech defectives is an almost new project, but a very hopeful and important one. The other child, Harriet, presents a problem of malnutrition resulting from queer or freakish eating habits. Because a child is found to be malnourished, it does not always mean that the family cannot provide sufficient food. Good nutrition is dependent on much more than the family's financial ability to supply an adequate diet. Nutrition involves the individual's physical defects. His social life and home habits, his mental attitudes, and many other factors besides the ones of the amount and nature of the food. Harriet's difficulty was merely that she refused to eat. She had been permitted by her parents to develop faulty habits. If she was forced to take foods against her will, she induced (unconsciously, of course) an attack of nausea. It was, therefore, necessary to change her attitude of mind toward her health problem before any improvement could be expected. She had to be made to learn that greater satisfaction could be found in activity and possessing energy than in the pampering and attention she received by being frail and pampering her appetite. It is an infantile reaction to attempt to gain attention by inducing illness. The child is not conscious of its tactics, but it is purely a subconscious mechanism. If the child's wishes are frustrated, or if others are gaining attention he desires, it is quite likely that the "spoiled" child will have a headache and an attack of nausea. These attacks should not be encouraged by further pampering, but the child (as in the case of Harriet) should be made to feel the greater pleasures and satisfactions of healthy, normal activities. Our author gives several technical definitions of nutrition, and its opposite, malnutrition, including the standards of two authorities. Dr. Holt considers that a child may be considered malnourished if he is ten per cent underweight, according to standard charts. Dr. Haven P. Emerson regards seven per cent underweight as indicating malnourishment. Because nutrition is dependent on such a great number of factors, and because the whole matter of health is inter-related with nutrition, our author gives a broader meaning to the word nutrition, considering it to be the equivalent of good health. Reference: Challenge of Childhood, by Dr. Ira S. Wile; Clara, pages 32 to 41; Harriet, pages 46 to 52. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 111 Questions and Problems 1. Why are frequent health examinations of value, especiall for children?: 2. What treatment is prescribed for a child with nervous heart trouble? How can this best be provided? 3. What is the relation between tonsil infection and heart trouble? What other diseases are frequently related to these two? 4, Why is a speech defect a handicap, 5. What facilities has your community for treating speech defect? 6. What is malnutrition, What are some of its causes? 7. What was needed to change Harriet's bad eating habits? 8. How can parents prevent children from developing faulty diet habits?