the Near East Relief, on the fast Sunday in December. We use the word privilege advisedly for we feel sure that could our members know the full necessity for such relief they would be filled with gratitude to President Coolidge, Secretary Hoover, the Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and all others who have sponsored the movement.
The latter part of February and early March of last year we had the privilege of seeing some of the work done by this organization. While visiting the city of Jerusalem we came in contact with a group of little boys left orphans, as a result of late outrages in that country. As we approached them they gave us the scout salute, which had been taught them by the American Relief Workers. Later when we visited the city of Damascus, we saw them huddled in tents on a parcel of ground just outside the walls of the city. Beirut, Syria, afforded us the best opportunity for seeing these unfortunate children, many of whom had been made orphans by the outbreak of 1922.
EDITORIAL 77
These little people, in most instances, have neither father nor mother, their parents having perished by the road side in their attempts to move out of Turkey into other lands. It is not an extravagant statement, but the plain unvarnished truth, when President Coolidge tells us that were it not for American assistance these children would starve to death. As we passed through their schools where they were seeking to learn three languages at once, the Arabic, English, and French, at the same time seeking to acquire skill in carpentry, baking and other work necessary for living in this every-day practical world of ours, we were deeply touched. They had the same lovely innocent faces, the same tender eyes that we meet with in our own children. We feel sure that there is no woman who could steel her heart against the appeal for life made by these children.
It seems unbelievable that 6,000 children could have been made orphans through racial and religious hatred in the year 1922, nevertheless, it is true. Some people desirous of helping these children have hesitated because they have feared lest those concerned in the administration of the relief fund get the money rather than the children. There is not the slightest evidence that such a thing is true, everything seems to be administered in the most economical manner, consistent with the work in hand, and those in charge are glad to have visitors see the work they are doing. Secretary Hoover assured us in an address over the radio that those who had charge were in every way trust-worthy, and if seeing is believing, all we saw in our recent visit to the Orient, would support his statement, which is no doubt backed up by accurate information.