Invalid Diet By Jean Cox While the average homemaker tries to feed her family in order ta prevent illness, sickness sometimes results from personal infringements on the laws of health which undermine the resistance of the body to disease. Over fatigue or becoming chilled pave the way to the inroad of germs which otherwise would not harm the person in vigorous health. In many cases with children the excitement of Christmas or parties burn up too much energy. Visible loss of weight results as well as corresponding loss of tone. When this physical condition exists, illness frequently results. Careful checking on colds and other minor illnesses as well as more serious disabilities will frequently show that there has been an unsatisfactory relationship between intake and activity, Frequently illness results from too low calorie intake due to lack of vitamines B in food. Food right in selection and amount is of far more importance in the comfort and recovery of the patient than the average homemaker concedes. In many instances illnesses are aggravated or prolonged because the patient is given either too little or too much food, or food that is poor in selection. This lack of understanding of the importance of the food problem is due to several contributing factors. One is the acknowledgement of close connection between food and health, which is of rather recent origin. Another reason for failure along this line is belief in unfounded food traditions in relation to illness. Perhaps the most important consideration of all is the lack of training of the homemaker along the line of invalid dietetics. The family doctor frequently gives such hazy directions that neither he nor the home nurse understand just what he means by his directions relating to diet. In further analysis of the situation, it is rather interesting to think of the accepted definition of foods according to Sherman in terms of the invalid diet. "Food is anything which when taken into the body furnishes heat and energy and builds tissues and regulates body processes." Heat and energy necessary for the fundamental body processes such as respiration, circulation, digestion, elimination and regulation of body temperature make a rather steady demand on the food requirement of the individual. In order to meet this basal need the average woman patient requires from 1100 to 1400 calories per day, while an average man would require from 1400 to 1800 calories under the same conditions. If the patient is restless, has a temperature, or sits wp part of INVALID DIET 83 the time, the demand would be somewhat increased. When the food intake is lower than this basal demand the various tissues of the body suffer as they are necessarily used to furnish the required heat and energy. In ordinary illness the dietician has almost superseded the pharmacist. If you question this, note how few patent medicines are now being featured in drug store counters. The latest addition to the list in one drug store is fresh eggs, and in defense of this expansion one druggist admitted that people buy very little medicine now adays. The crusade against indiscriminate use of widely advertised patent medicines has convinced the intelligent public that patent medicines are not always panaceas. In the treatment of disease by careful food selection, additional argument is given for the protective foods. One of the most recent experiments is the one carried on recently at Johns Hopkins Laboratories where they have experimented on diets to stimulate bone growth. The experiments justify the use of buttermilk and liver several times a week as the phosphorous containel in the liver and the calcium in the buttermilk furnish the two elements necessary for bone growth. This has been used with patients whose bone refused to knit together normally, and this diet has proven to be successful in human as well as animal experimentation. When a patient is emaciated or much run down, very careful attention must be given to diet, in addition to as complete restas is possible. The existing illness, unless the result of disease, is frequently due to continued over-expenditure of energy in proportion to the food intake. It is not logical to expect that a tenroom house could be built or heated on an amount of brick or coal required for a six-room one. Neither is it sensible to expect that extra exertion over an indefinite period is safe if the food intake is inadequate for the demands for body processes and activities. When the patient is much below normal weight, it is customary to put him to bed and feed him a diet considerably in excess of his daily needs. The patient is encouraged to relax and rest in order to build up as quickly as possible. Much serious illness could be averted if more people had the idea of prevention of serious illness. A few days in bed in addition to a satisfactory diet that would appeal to a jaded appetite, as well as build up rundown tissues, would frequently save many days of suffering and the increased expense of inconvenience of sickness,: Diets for the sick are classified as liquid, soft or semi-solid, and light or convalescent diet. The fluid diet is easy of digestion and is advantageous when for any reason a person is below par physically. In minor illness it is usually safe to use this light 
 diet for several days in order not to overtax the digestive tract, as when a person is below par physically care must be taken to provide a diet easy of digestion. The fluid diet will include (1) broths and clear soups, beef juice and beef tea, cereal gruels of various kinds, milk, either plain or modified to make it more digestible or attractive to the individual, raw egys in combination with water, fruit juices, cocoa or other fluid and cream soup of various kinds. It must be remembered however, that broths, clear soups, beef juices land beef teas have little calorie value and that their chief value is from. The standpoint of an appetizer, as they stimulate flow of gastric juices, they are agreeable to the taste and are comforting when hot or refreshing when cold. Broths, however, can be made carriers of more nutritious foods by the addition of cream, eggs, and cereals or cereal flours. Broths and bouillon are bulky, as it takes from 1 pint to 1 quart to make a one hundred calorie portion. So the old idea that a patient would become strong on broth and tea is not borne out by present investigations. Very probably, convalescence has been prolonged because of restricted use of inadequate diets. Where the flavor is liked, one-fourth of a cup of thin cream can be added to two-thirds of a cup of broth and the food value changes from 33 calories to 133 calories. The addition of two to three tablespoons of barley or rice flour will bring up the caloric value approximately 50 calories. Ease of the digestion of food for invalids needs careful consideration as toxic conditions, inactivity and general low tone all tend to inhibit flow of digestive juices. In order to stimulate sluggish digestive glands, much of the food prescribed is liquid or soft, as dry foods lack flavor when the salivary glands are not functioning normally. It is well to remember also that digestion is largely a process of getting foods into a stage of solubility. For this reason the liquid or semi-liquid foods cause less strain on the digestive tract than do solid foods. Partial or complete loss of appetite make it very important that foods are attractively served. The saying that we half eat with our eyes is especially true in regard to the sick room tray. Attractiveness here may make the patient sufficiently curious to try to eat the food provided. Absolute cleanliness, attractive dishes, clean linen, are essential considerations in feeding the sick. Stimulation of the jaded taste bulbs is sometimes effected by serving fruits, consomme, or fruit for the first course. Another factor which needs careful consideration is the psychology or feeding invalids. When food is served the patient should be expected to eat it. Perhaps actually feeding the sick person, the more difficult part of the task will be time well spent, for, if the patient is very ill, eating often seems too much of an INVALID DIET 85 exertion. If the patient is inclined to be self-centered, creating other interests during meal time may be half of the battle. Frequently positive suggestions such as "This will help you get out into the sunshine," or "Food like this will help you to sit up," will help. Cereal gruels likewise may be carriers of some of the more concentrated foods, if the digestive tract will not be disturbed. A cup of thin gruel without the addition of cream, milk, butter or egg is only about 50 calories. Thinning it with whole milk, thin cream, butter or egg will add to the food value and may contribute to the palatability. While catering to the individual likes of the patient has some advantages, the value of a surprise to the taste bulbs has some advantages. The patient without much appetite should not be required to make decisions as to what should be prepared for him. Very often feeding failure results from too infrequent meals. The home nurse doesn't always realize that a small amount of liquid food is completely digested in two to three hours. When the stomach remains empty for too long a period, faintness and lack of appetite result. The following sample menu of a fluid diet is suggestive: 7:00 a.m. Cup hot milk flavored with postum if desired. 9:00 a. M. Albuminized lemonade: 2 tbsp. Lemon juice, 2 tbsp. Sugar, egg slightly beaten, 11 c. Water...... 125 calories 11:00 a.m. 1 cup broth 50 calories 1:00 p. M. 1 cup gruel made with milk.................. 125 calories 3:00 p. M. Albuminized orange or lemonade............. 130 calories 5:00 p.m. 1 cup broth.......... 50 calories 7:00 p.m. 1 cup milk.... 125 calories 9:00 p. M. 1 cup broth...........50 calories 11:00 p. M. 1 cup gruel made with milk................... 125 calories Molasesses?.775 calories The amount of calories furnished by the above diet is too low for more than a few days. If the patient is to continue on a fluid diet, additions of more food will necessarily be made. The following variations are suggested when more calories are required: 7:00 a.m. 1 cup milk  125 calories 9:00 a. M. I cup milk flavored with postum, etc........... 125 Calories 11:00 a. M. Albuminized orange juice, 1/2 cup orange juice, 2 tbsp. Sugar, white of 1 egg............ 225 calories 1:00 p. M. Cream soup with one egg added just before it is taken from stove or 44 cup cream............ 275 calories 3:00 p. M. Grape juice eggnog: One egg, 1/2 cup milk, 1 tbsp. Sugar, 44 cup grape juice, 1 tbsp. Cream... 200 calories 5:00 p. M. Gruel made with milk.............. 125 calories 
 7:00 p. M. 1 cup tea made with  cup milk and 2 tbsp. Cream 125 calories 9:00 p. M. Gruel made with milk flavored with beef extract 200 calories 11:00 p. M. 1 cup hot malted milk...............225 calories Total. 1625 calories The semi or soft diet consists of easily digested foods that includes easily digested egg dishes, toast, jello and liquids, carrying more calories through the addition of cream, rich milk, malted milk. The number of meals is decreased by two, and the schedule changed. The following is a typical menu for a soft or semisolid diet. Approximate calories 7:00 a. M. 1 cup hot milk flavored as desired. 9:30 a. M. 1 cup fruit juice, preferably orange or part grapefruit and milder fruit juice.................. 125 1 cup thick gruel served with top milk.......... 200 1 thin slice toast with butter................... 100 12:00 m. 1 cup beef broth with white of 1 egg........... 75 1 thin slice toast with butter................... 100 2:30 p. M. 2/3 cup creamed chicken...........  200  thin slice toast........50 2 stalks celery or small serving lettuce salad..... 1/2 cup lemon jelly with |1 tbsp. Whipped cream.. 125 5:00 p. M. 1 cup milk flavored as desired..........50 7:30 p. M. 1/2 cup bouillon.......100 cup cocoa or caramel junket or cornstarch pudCh wi ar 150 plus 10:00 p. M. 1 cup gruel or malted milk................... 200 plus 1 thin slice toast with butter................... 100 Total calories......... 1955 Try oatmeal fluff when a change in texture is desired. To 1/2 cup oatmeal jelly, add 1/2 cup thin cream, | tsp. Sugar, salt, spk, nutmeg. When hot pour into beaten white of one egg. Serve at once. Failure in invalid feeding is often due to the lack of understanding as to what were the contributing factors to the indisposition. Although physicians sometimes say that their harvest in minor illness follows Christmas holidays, because people overeat, colds often result from over-exertion and fatigue. The diet treatment of colds in addition to rest is to feed liquid or semi-liquid for a day or two as the body is low tone generally. The extra amount of liquid will also stimulate elimination. Fruit juices usually used at this time are also valuable for their organic acids which tend to prevent constipation. As a rule some form of laxative is taken in addition to the fruit juices. There is a decided diet problem in the diet for colds during the convalescent period, as the system is frequently run down
INVALID DIET 87
and the cold may hang on indefinitely, recur, or develop into chronic catarrh, bronchitis, pneumonia or tuberculosis, if efforts are not made to build up the person to normal condition. In order to do this an abundance of easily digested, nutritious food should be served. If there is little danger of upsetting the digestive tract, a beverage might be used between meals for additional nutrients. As a precautionary measure it is wise for the patient not to spend more energy than is absolutely necessary. Care should be taken also that the protective foods, milk, eggs, green-leaf vegetables, citrus fruit and codliver oil should be used in each day's diet. For additional fuel fats such as butter, cream, bacon, olive and codliver oil, seem additionally desirable. Codliver oil contains more of the A vitamin than any other known substance. It should be considered more as a valuable food than a medicine. Dr. McCollum advocates ? tsp. Codliver oil and 1? tsp. of precipitated chalk twice a week for adults as a precautionary measure. In the light or convalescent diet the same protective foods are used in addition to some more solid foods such as cooked cereals, roast or broiled lean beef, chicken, mutton, lamb or fish. Baked potatoes are served and thick vegetable purees are used. Simple desserts are still served and may be a little richer and sweeter. As a rule any dessert or fruit for invalids should be less sweet than the normal appetite requires. Adults on this diet are allowed from 2,200 to 2,500 calories per day, which gives a safe margin for building tissues over the amount required for body process and minor activity of the invalid. The physician will prescribe certain regulations, but the family dietician should see to it that building, regulatory foods are generously supplied. A short convalescence is quite as much the responsibility of the home nurse and dietician as it is of the doctor in charge.
"Let us cast off our hatreds. Let us candidly accept our treaties and our natural obligations of peace. We know, and everyone knows, that these old systems, antagonism and reliance on force, have failed. If the world has made any progress, it has been the result of the development of other ideals. If we are to maintain and perfect our own civilization; if we are to be of any benefit to the rest of mankind, we must turn aside from the thoughts of destruction and cultivate the thoughts of construction. We cannot place our main reliance upon material forces. We must reaffirm and reinforce our ancient faith in truth and justice, in charitableness and tolerance. We must make our supreme commitment to the everlasting spiritual forces of life. We must mobilize the conscience of mankind."?Calvin Coolidge.