LETTER TO GENERAL BOARD 67
and again demonstrated the effect of the constructive help and excellent supervision given by President and Sister Tadje and their able associates. The conference proper was successful from every point of view and was attended by many friends who evidenced much interest. After an inspirational missionary meeting on Monday morning, the elders went with us in a body to the train which was to convey us to the border-line of Germany. Part of our journey was along the Rhine, on the farther side of which lay France.
To be the guest of Brother and Sister Cannon was next best to going home. They and all the household at Basel vied with one another to make our visit pleasant. While there I attended the local Relief Society as also a meeting of the M. I. A., and found in each the same keen interest, capable presentation of the lessons, and intelligent discussion by the members as had given me such enthusiastic encouragement in the branches of the German-Austrian mission.
Through the unusual experience gained during the years of his preceding missions in that country, President Cannon knows well what one who visits Switzerland for the first time would like to see. There were three days at our disposal while Brother Talmage made a hurried trip to Geneva to consult with President Rossiter of the French mission, who had arrived since we left Liverpool.
The first day we took a trip over beautiful Lake Lucerne—now as blue as the bluest sky and again as green as the proverbial emerald. Its nearby mountains are so close to its edge they appeared to belong each to the other. Lovely villages nestled at their base, but some of the tiny chalets were not content to remain below and were lured on and on up the steep mountainside until they reached and rested near its crest. Imagination weaves all sorts of romances here. Hotels are built on overhanging cliffs and silhouetted against the sky, so that at night the lights gleaming from their windows might well delude an amateur astronomer into the belief that he had "New worlds to conquer."
We passed the monument erected to the memory of Schiller. What a cold and silent tribute it seemed rising as it did from out the water's depths! We left the boat long enough to visit the William Tell Chapel on our way to the famous Axen Strasse, a beautiful road along the mountain-side over which we walked to the next tiny village, where we again embarked and returned to Lucerne.
Next morning, in company with President and Sister Cannon and Brother Wunderlich, we went to Interlaken, and from there took a side-trip to see a wonderful freak of nature with an almost unpronounceable name. It was a huge mountain, cleft from base to summit, with the opening apparently five or six feet in width.


At five different levels a tremendous volume of water gushed forth with a deafening roar and then formed beautiful waterfalls to the levels below. A unique inclined elevator car carried us part of the distance up the mountain-side from one landing place to the next, but there were still many steps to climb. One could look far up or down the ravine and see three of these great falls at one glance. The huge crevice was lighted artificially, as only a glimpse of sky could be caught through the opening above our heads.
In the evening we found ourselves in an area of Latter-day Saints, in this remote secluded village—how the gospel does penetrate to the uttermost part of the earth! But there was the same earnest spirit of devotion manifest as is found in the great gatherings both at home and abroad.
The third day we went on a little railway that wound up the mountain-side to the Grundelwald Valley, passing the Youngfrau in the distance. From the terminus we were driven to a real glacier. Into its depths a tunnel has been made and the light coming through the ice is blue in color. The effect is unusually beautiful in itself, but in it we looked positively ghastly. At Lucerne, on our return trip, we visited the Glacier Gardens which tell a wonderful story of the work done by glacial action of past ages.
At the entrance to these gardens, carved in the solid rock, is the famous "Lion of Lucerne." One is fascinated by the environment and by the master touch of the sculptor who has transformed the cold stone into a tribute that thrills the heart and writes its story indelibly upon the memory. This lovely region had a warm spot in my heart, inspired by the interesting descriptive articles written by Sister Annie Wells Cannon for the Woman's Exponent, and read when I was a very young girl in my secluded mountain home.
From Lucerne we went direct to Zurich and held another well attended conference, saw other evidences of efficiency, met other capable, devoted elders and partook of the bounteous hospitality of newly acquired friends. President and Sister Ernest C. Rossiter came all the way from Geneva to attend this conference, and expressed themselves as having gained much that would prove helpful to them in their new work in the French mission.
At the Sunday School session a little pageant portraying the parable of the Prodigal Son was given in an exceptionally fine manner; it would have done credit to professional supervision. We were loath to leave this beautiful city with no opportunity for sight-seeing, but after the missionary meeting on Monday we hastened back to Basel and attended a Relief Society of that branch in the evening. We found the preparation just as
LETTER TO GENERAL BOARD 69
thorough and the discussion just as animated as in the meetings in Germany. Eighteen of the twenty members present took part.
On September 22, we bade adieu to our friends in Switzerland who had helped to make our experience there so rich, and again we crossed the border into Germany to visit other branches of the Swiss-German mission. When we reached Frankfurt the pleasant experience was repeated of finding a group of elders at the station to meet and greet us. During the hour between our arrival and the time appointed for meeting, Conference President Oliver Richards took us to visit the home of the poet Goethe and also to the old Roman stronghold. A fine hall, beautiful flowers, excellent music, a large, intelligent audience, a splendid spirit as manifest in the addresses, and hundreds of warm handclasps following the close of the meeting, are among our memories of our visit to Frankfurt.
From thence we went to Mayence and took boat for Cologne. The world famed trip along the Rhine has been described by too many master artists to lure my feeble efforts. It is worthy of the best, though I concede to them no keener sense of appreciation for the beauty of those castellated hills that rise from the banks of that historic stream than I myself possess.
At Cologne, President Glen R. Dorius and his associates gave welcome just as warm and the memories left are just as pleasant as those in and of other cities already mentioned. The outstanding feature of our visit to Cologne, aside from our Church appointments, was a visit to the great cathedral, which structure as we learn from "Baedeker," "justly excites the admiration of every beholder, and is probably the most magnificent Gothic edifice in
[IMAGE: MOUSE TOWER ON THE RHINE]
[IMAGE: THE CATHEDRAL AT COLOGNE]
the world." The foundation stone was laid in the year 1248, and the last stone of the tower in 1880. Thus the building was in course of construction for more than six centuries. We were informed that more than eight thousand carved figures adorn this structure, the tower of which rises to a height of 512 feet.
We were one day in Brussels, half of which time we spent in a visit to the Field of Waterloo. A marvelously constructed panorama almost deceives one into believing that he is witnessing the actual struggle that led to Napoleon's defeat. After the short journey from Brussels to Rotterdam, thus passing from one country to another and from one mission to another, we were welcomed by President and Sister Charles S. Hyde of the Netherlands mission. We remained but one night under their hospitable roof, then proceeded to Amsterdam where the conference was held.
A few hours on Saturday afternoon gave opportunity to visit one of the great art galleries of Europe. We were fortunate in finding a special exhibition of Rembrandt's paintings being held. His "Night Watch," which has a permanent place in the gallery, holds one's interest with almost the same intensity as do Raphael's "Madonna" and Ruben's "Last Judgment." It is marvelous! Many other products of his brush as well as masterpieces by Frans Hals and other famous Dutch artists gave us great joy.
There are but four conferences in the Netherlands mission. These are in rather close proximity and thus nearly all the sixty elders laboring in that field were in attendance at the gathering in Amsterdam. The long and efficient services rendered by President and Sister Hyde in our Church organizations at home have fitted them admirably for their duties in the mission field. The capable
[IMAGE: REMBRANDT DUTCH BURGHERS]
supervision is apparent by the reports given at the officers' meeting on Saturday evening showed the conference as a whole to be most successful. We found the same spirit of earnestness in this as in the other missions visited. After our seven weeks of experience we had a far deeper sense of appreciation for the unselfish devotion of our elders and missionary sisters, as well as for the willing sacrifice of our members, than we had ever had before, and we departed with hearts full of blessings for all who are thus diligently engaged in spreading the gospel message.
[IMAGE: REMBRANDT THE NIGHT WATCH]
A Letter from Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Member of the General Board, and Collector of Customs at the Port of Hawaii
Dear Fellow Board Members:
There are so many unusual happenings here in Honolulu that I shall try to give a little glimpse of the opportunities this port affords one. I'll not tell you of any disadvantages.
We have here on the Island an organization known as the Pan-Pacific Union. This organization has for its aim the removal of racial prejudice, and bringing the nations closer together for commercial purposes and interests not all material, and an exchange of products of one country with another. It is very democratic in its scope. One of our wealthy missionary families donated an immense building which has been renovated and furnished by the Cook estate for the use of the Pan-Pacific Union. This Union brings many intellectual and interesting people to the Island who are entertained during their visit at the Pan-Pacific Building. There is a large lecture room, where the lectures, both illustrated and otherwise, are given to members as well as interested people.
The recent visit of Dr. and Mrs. Jordan and Dr. and Mrs. Evermann to the Island, I am sure, will interest you. The presence of Dr. Jordan seemed most opportune, at this time, he being President of the Pan-Pacific Union, because of the plan to transfer from Japan through Dr. Ishikawa, President of the Tokio University, thousands of eggs of the ayu fish to the streams of Hilo, "Our Island," where the active volcano is located. Dr. Ishikawa was accompanied by Dr. Yoshire Wakiya, head of the Fisheries Commission of Korea, who made the trip for the purpose of introducing into the Islands the Korean Oyster, that is planted and grows so well in Korea. That gave us three most distinguished officials greatly interested in this transfer.
These gentlemen, Doctor Ishikawa and Yoshiro Wakiya brought the eggs of the ayu fish, which were especially sealed and kept in a cold temperature sufficient for their needs. The ceremony attending the depositing of the same in the waters of Hawaii was most interesting, Doctors Jordan and Ishikawa taking part. The fish are fresh water fish, which is most unusual for the Islands, and the way in which they are caught is an interesting feature, as well as the thought of their being transferred from Japan to the United States.
These fish are caught by a duck-like bird, known as the cormorant, which is introduced and used in the ayu fishery business in Japan. It is claimed to be a perfect gormandizer, and has