A Real Christmas Present
This Christmas a goodly number of mothers, throughout the Church, received a present of very unusual significance and of very great worth. The mother received on a card or in some other way a Gleaner message from her daughter, which reads: "In appreciation I will endeavor to make possible one hour of daily diversion for my mother."
The thought is beautiful and brings to mind the fact that it is possible to make spiritual gifts which are far more valuable than gifts of a material nature. It is with the hope that the mothers may feel the full significance of this most praiseworthy effort on the part of the Y. L. M. I. A. to develop the daughters of Zion, that we make this appeal for cooperation through the Editorial columns of the Magazine.
If after all that has been done by the Mutual board, the mother does not cooperate with her daughter, then failure will be the result, and a good many tender girls will be wounded in spirit and be greatly disappointed. We should think that mothers would be on their "Tiptoes" to assist their daughters in binding this sheaf.
In this busy world of ours which is gaining in momentum


every day, mothers are pressed for time to do many of the things they would do. Sometimes they need time to spend a few hours with their husbands, to go out with them for a little recreation so necessary to both; sometimes they are pressed for time to read the latest magazine, a new book, to really relax, to call up a neighbor, to cultivate the acquaintance of a friend, to attend a lecture, to do a piece of needle-work or many other things that they desire to do. That is just what the girls' sheaf is for; her gift is an hour each day that mother may use as she chooses.
Mother, this offering from your daughter was placed into your hand on Christmas day; if you are Christian at heart, you will receive it in the spirit of the Divine Master; if you are a loving mother, your heart will not permit you to refuse so beautiful a gift at the hand of your lovely daughter, for it is more fragrant than violets, more beautiful in color and texture than roses. If you are a wise mother you will receive it because of the great benefit it will be to the giver. Do not humiliate that proud daughter of yours by having her report at her meeting that her mother did not cooperate with her. Seek to have the flush of pride come to her cheek and joy beam in her face as she relates to her companions what she has done, and how mother has helped her to do it.
Near East Relief
Members of the Relief Society, in connection with all other members of the Church, had the privilege of contributing to