LETTER FROM MRS. JEANETTE A. HYDE 73
a sack under its beak which makes it most profitable for the uses to which it is put. A ring is placed around the cormorant's neck before it is let loose in the stream, and a long string tied to its leg; the fisherman sits on the side of the stream or in a boat while the cormorant goes into the water and brings up the fish in the sack under its beak, catching from ten to a dozen fish, depending upon the size, the average size being from eight to twelve inches long. The fisherman on the shore or in the boat knows the length of time required for the usual catch; when he thinks the cormorant's sack is full he draws the string and brings the bird to him, gives it a sharp hit on the back, when it disgorges the fish yet alive; they are taken in hand by a second fisherman, washed, which process snaps out the life of the fish, and then put upon the market ready for sale. Should any of the fish caught be smaller than is profitable for market the cormorant is rewarded by being fed the small catch.
To me the whole affair is so unusual that I thought you, too, would be interested in knowing something of the exchange that is going on between this Island and the Islands of Japan and Korea, as well as this real fish story.
When Dr. and Mrs. Jordan arrived, Consul-General Ioka, with the Japanese Legation gave a very extraordinary reception. Consul-General Ioka is a small, trim, very cultured gentleman; a typical Japanese, who always wears the afternoon or evening frock on occasions of this kind; Mrs. Ioka stood in line with her husband and Dr. and Mrs. Jordan. Mrs. Jordan, by the way, wore a beautiful afternoon gown with an exquisite Spanish shawl in yellow, beautifully draped about her shoulders; while Mrs. Ioka was exquisite in a beautiful Japanese kimona, brilliant obi, Japanese slippers, and groomed to the latest, with hair dressed in the latest mode, made fluffy and puffy with a solution of starch which is used as a last treatment by the up-to-date Japanese ladies, finger nails polished, and eyes as bright as diamonds. This made a wonderful picture with a background of roses, palms and ferns, colorful draperies and hangings and much teakwood furniture.
Consul-General and Mrs. Ioka received about one hundred fifty guests. Refreshments were served from one of the most beautifully decorated tables I think that I have ever seen. The Japanese use roses and chrysanthemums when in season; great brass candelabra, with hand-painted cathedral candles and silk shades of pale pink, yellow and green, immense bowls of punch with the nicest of silver and cut glass, Japanese cookies and cake and American candies. The Gentry always do the honors, giving the service from the table, while the Japanese maids patter around in beautiful vividly colored kimonas, like butterflies, as quiet and noiseless as fairies, passing the sandwiches and refreshments to the guests, who are seated or standing around in groups. No music


except the sound of voices of the different nationalities, which seems after all to be strains of music in harmony and keeping with the surroundings and occasion.
Dr. and Mrs. Jordan have been here for some time and just returned to the mainland last week. During their visit the Doctor has given many lectures, one of which was in the "Mormon" church. I hope you will enjoy this letter as much as I have enjoyed the lectures and interesting things connected with them, at least it was of great interest to me because of its unusualness and definite aim.
It might be well to state that Honolulu is the cross-roads for the Orient to the main Pacific coasts; this accounts for the visit of so many foreign notables. In my next letter I want to tell you of our Ambassador MacVeagh's recent visit on his way to Japan. Also the visit of the Chinese General Hsu, and the public receptions and affairs given for both of them. It was stated to me by the Secretary of the Chinese Consul that General Hsu will probably be the next President of China. His visit here was of two-fold interest to us all.
Sincerely Yours, Jeanette A. Hyde.
Keep Cheerful By Alton Packard
If you would live to a green old age, And tell life's tale to the last fair page, Let sweet content your thoughts engage; Keep cheerful.
Let no dread doubt your joys dispel; The Soul that does each duty well Shall fear no challenging sentinel; Be not fearful.
The tide of sorrow will subside; Dark discontent cannot abide, If we but view the brighter side And keep cheerful.
Ohio Educational Monthly.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS


Editor - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XIII FEBRUARY, 1926 No. 2

EDITORIAL