Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman St. Johns Stake The St. Johns Relief Society stake board was reorganized on April 30, 1922, at the stake conference. Mrs. Josephine Patterson was appointed president and she later selected for her counselors Mrs. Ethel Whiting and Mrs. Dora Udall. Mrs. Laura Day was chosen secretary. The retiring president, Mrs. Eliza L. S. Udall, has presided over the Relief Society of this stake for nearly thirty-five years, having been appointed to this position July 23, 1887. She has been a tireless and resourceful worker and has succeeded in overcoming many obstacles incident to building up the organization from a small beginning to its present efficient standard. She has worked with a love in her heart for the members of the entire stake and she has endeared herself to all the women of the Relief Society and all the members of the community. Mrs Udall was particularly fitted by nature, and by training, 'o meet the responsibilities of the difficult undertaking of organizing at this time a Rel'ef Society in this newly settled part of Arizona. During her many years of service she has manifested the earnest devotiom and industry of the pioneer in the cons ructive development of the community, and she has also ever been an inspiring character of culture and charm. Besides her puble work, she has been a devoted mother and has maintained a beautiful and hospitable home., Mrs. M. E. B. Farr, who has served as an officer on the board for the same period, was secretary until 1906, and since then has been the first counselor. Her work in both capacit'es has been of a high standard and she has discharged all of her duties in an efficient and energetic manner. Mrs. Margaret Jarvis has served as counselor since 1912, and she was treasurer of the organization for six years prior to this time. She has been a faithful officer and has been a great asset not only to the Relief Society but to the community because of her willing service in her profession of nurse. Mrs. Rachael E. Berry served as secretary since 1913, and Mrs. Wilmirth Dewitt served as treasurer since 1919. These two sisters have proved to be faithful and efficient in keeping the records of the society and maintaining a high standard in this particular branch of the work.  Snowflake Stake The stake board of Snowflake report that they have examined the record books of all the wards in the stake, some of them several times. The stake is trying to establish the plan of having the secretaries bring their books to union meeting once every three months, so that the new secretaries will be able to receive the necesasry instructions, and so that any difficulties or problems may be discussed and solved. In order to make -he secretaries' department an efficient one a request was made and granted by the stake presidency that the secretaries would not be called to any other position while acting in this capacity. FIVE GENERATIONS OF THE FAMILY OF MRS. WILLIS * The accompanying -picture shows five generations of the family of Mrs. Frances Reeves Willis. Grandma Willis has attained her eighty-second birthday, the venerable head of a family of twelve chilldren, eighty-six grandchildren, fourteen great grandchildren and one great great grandchild. She was born in England, and, at the age of three, her parents were converted to the Church and later the family moved to Nauvoo, and after a year's residence there crossed the plains with the early pioneers. She and her husband were called to help settle Arizona, in 1875, and after her husband's death in 1888, Mrs. Willis demonstrated her determination and perseverance in fulfilling the mission to which she had been called by remaining with her young family in this new community. Her life has been an example of faith and earnestness and she has merited the love and respect of her family and friends. She has been a zealous Church worker and has been especially active in Relief Society work. With the characteristic w'llingness of the pioneer to serve she has spent many hours caring for and comforting the sick. 478. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Cottonwood Stake A sewing department has recently been organized in the Cottonwood stake and the Relief Society held an entertainment to raise the necessary funds to make the initial purchases. A delightful one-act play was presented by the Extension Division of the University of Utah under the direction of Professor Chauncey Houston, and several dancing solos were given by the pupils of the Granite High School, under the direction of Miss Tipton. Over one thousand tickets were sold and the affair was entirely successful. To introduce the details of the sewing work to the ward officers, a luncheon was given by the stake board on May 5, in the South Cottonwood ward house. Eighty guests enjoyed' the luncheon, and while they were seated at the tables, instructions and announcements were made. It was explained that the profits of this department would be used to maintain the baby clinic which was opened in Murray last January. Salt Lake Stake. The Salt Lake Stake Relief Society choir gave a concert in the Twenty-second ward meeting house in March. The affair was arranged by the stake chorister, Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas, and the stake organist, Mrs. Eva. J. Olson. Mrs. Clara G. Smith was the business manager of the entertainment. Excellent vocal and instrumental numbers were 'rendered and an interesting dramatic sketch was produced. Besides being an artistic stccess the concert netted the stake the satisfactory amount of $140. Nebo Stake The Nebo Stake Relief Society presidency visited the Genola branch of the Church on July 2, 1922, and effected an organization of the Relief Society there. The following officers were chosen and sustained: Maud Larsen, president; Anna Neilson, first counselor; Edith Evans, second counselor; Minnie Chatwin, secretary; Serena Rosley, treasurer; Grace Smith, organist; Margaret Hartrickson, assistant organist; Beatrice Larson, chorister. Cassia Stake On July 2, 1922, the Cassia stake board with the help of the various wards gave an entertainment for the "Old Folks" of the stake. They were guests at a matinee at which the play "Sazy" was presented. Later they enjoyed an elaborate banquet which was followed by an interesting program. The oldest sister present was seventy-nine years old and the oldest brother eighty-nine. A Relief Society choir has been organized by the stake and they  are planning to furnish 'the music during the stake conference convention which will be held soon, Taylor Stake The General Board of the Relief Society was pleased to have Mrs. Fannye H. Walker, secretary of Taylor stake Relief Societies call at the General Offices in July. She gave an interesting report of the activities in the Relief Society in their remote stake. She reported 'that President Georgina O'Brien, after her return from the June conference in Salt Lake City, called a special stake conference. This conference was held May 5, at Sterling, and a complete report of the instruction given at the Salt Lake conference was presented to the local workers. An interesting synopsis of the conference speeches was also given at this meeting. It was reported that a pennant is to be presented in August to the ward which makes the greatest increase in both membership and average attendance for a period of three months. As a special activity last spring the Relief Society members decided to plant a tree. The surroundings in this locality are not very attractive as the country is newly settled and somewhat barren, This campaign of tree-planting was instituted with the view of making the community more attractive. The women are also encouraged to plant flower gardens and the Relief Society is planning to have a festival in the fall, a feature of which is to be a flower show. California Mission The Relief Society office was pleased to receive a picture CHINO BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY of the Chino Branch Relief Society, which is a small but active organization! In Arizona. Besides finding the Relief Society meetings beneficial to themselves, they report that through the  organization they have been able to accomplish much good in their community. Among other things they are endeavoring to raise a chapel fund towards which they already have $60. Botse Stake The Relief Society of Glenn's Ferry Branch, in the Boise stake, was organized in October, 1921, with Mrs. Addie E. Blaser as president. At the time of the organization there was a membership of eleven. Six of whom were officers. Six months later the membership had grown to twenty-five active workers. The Relief Society in this little village has become a power for good and the officers are proud of their achievements and progress. In commemoration of the Relief Society Annual Day, a celebration was held to which all members of the branch were invited. An appropriate program was rendered, one feature of which was a poem composed for the occasion by the secretary of the branch, Elfrida T. Thompson. IN MEMORIAM It is in deep sorrow that the Boise Stake Relief Society announces the death in April of their beloved sister, Mrs. Ruby Young Rawlings, first counselor in the Relief Society presidency. Mrs. Rawlings was a beautiful and devoted young mother, and an active and capable Relief Society worker. Her sweet spirit and earnest work won for her a host of faithful friends who mourn her loss. She was an ardent and willing worker in her Church and in her community, and her achievements reflect credit on her name and on her family. Morgan Stake The Morgan Stake Relief Society held its annual conference in April. The stake presidency and members of the high council were special visitors. Various topics were assigned to the different wards and many valuable suggestions were made by the sisters presenting the topics. A part of the afternoon session was devoted to a testimonial in honor of the former stake officers. An appropriate speech was given by Counselor Hilma Rose who paid tribute to the devoted service of the retired officers. She also read a poem which was written for the occasion by one of the board members. The three members of the former presidency, Mrs. Maryette Waldron, Mrs. Nettie Durrant, and Mrs. Martha Heiner, were each presented with a signet ring, and each of the former board members were presented with a breast pin. A fitting response was given by Mrs. Margaret Waldron. The South Morgan Relief Society presented a play entitled,  "An Old Fashioned Mother,' to a crowded house on April 4. It was thought by those present that the entertainment was one of the best ever given in the ward. St. George Stake A delightful party was given by the East St. George Ward Relief Society in the amusement hall of the stake tabernacle. An interesting program was carried out and various games were played for which prizes were given to victors. Some of the younger members present created much amusement by appearing in the costumes of their grandmothers. The crowning feature of the evening was reached, however, when some of the older members were taken without previous warning and adorned in the apparel of their granddaughters of the present generation. They were given gallant partners, improvised for the occasion, and after their interpretation of ball room dancing, they were greeted with an enthusiastic ovation. Garfield Stake _ We take pleasure in mentioning that the Garfield Relief Society, for a period of five months, has maintained a record of 100 per cent of teachers' visits in all of the wards. The stake has been emphasizing the work of the teachers and a wholesome rivalry in this work has been created among the wards, which is perhaps responsible for the splendid record made. An excellent spirit of cooperation exists in the stake. When the Widtsoe ward was striken with an epidemic of influenza, in the winter, the Relief Societies of the nearby wards collected and prepared food for the distressed community. Weber Stake: At the quarterly conference of the Weber stake, held in Ogden on June 25, 1922, the stake was divided. Part of the stake retained 'he name of Weber and the new division was given the name of Mt. Ogden stake. The Relief Society Board, together with the other stake officers, were released, and two new organizations were effected. The new officers of he Weber Stake Relief Society are: Agnes H. Stevens, president; Marian M. Browning, firs: counselor; Ellen H. Tanner, second counselor; Mary C. Stevens, secretary and treasurer; Ellen J. Stevens, chorister; Rosabel Scowcroft, organist. The Relief Society officers selected and sustained in the new Mt Ogden stake are: Almira C. Rich, president; Elizabeth Dee Thomas, first counselor; Annie Petty, second counselor; Christina G. Collins, secretary and treasurer; Dora H. Holther, assistant secretary; May L. Hobson, chorister; Mary M. Ure, organist. A Dollar Saved is a:'Dollar Earned By Lalene H. Hart A great deal has been said about the high cost of living, and many suggestions have been offered as a solution; but instead of adopting some new fad or plan, why not change the old plan, utilize what material is at hand and improve the methods of utilization? Just at this season it is quite fitting and essential that an inventory be taken of the family wardrobe, and perhaps some readjustments can be made in this department of the household whereby time, energy, money and worry can' be economized, Clothes Budget A definite amount, not to exceed one-fifth of the family income should be allowed in the household budget for clothing. It is a good plan to have a separate clothes budget. List each article of clothing each member of the family has, then the number each will require and also the probable cost. Are the requirements more than the allowance? If so, what can you do without and still keek up your s andard? What can you remodel or make at home? Study needs first, desires second. Study textiles and fabrics and dyes; learn how to make over, to color, to cut and sew and to properly care for your clothes. "Make friends of your clothes. They really have a personality. Give them care and thought and they will give you comfort when with them. They will add charm to your charms. Treat them with disrespect, neglect to care for them, and there is no knowing how they will make you look and feel." Well dressed people are not always the most expensively dressed; but clothes do have their place and function in the making of a man or woman. It is poor policy to spend mony for expensive foods, if the housewife must go without a proper and suitable dress and thereby give up her Church duties and social affairs. Neither is it proper for the children to have everything they want and mother nothing. Equally wrong is it to spend too much money for clothing and do without proper food and other necessities. Standards ' Two definite standards of taste can be applied to clothing and textiles; these are suitab'lity and simplicity. Since the homemaker is the principal purchasing agent, it is well to keep these