[Vol26 | July 1939 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Our Cover]
.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 11038, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
OUR COVER
This beautiful and story-telling monument by the sculptor Torlief Knaphus stands in a prominent position in the Bureau of Information on Temple Square. It represents nearly 4,000 men, women and children who crossed the plains on foot in the great Handcart migration from 1856 to 1860. These courageous people pulled or pushed their handcarts for 1,000 miles between the Missouri River and Salt Lake City. Some may wonder at this method of pioneer travel. The following quotation from the general instruction of the First Presidency of October, 1855, sheds much light:
"We are sanguine that such a train will out-travel any ox train that can be started. They should have a few good cows to furnish milk, and a few beef cattle to drive and butcher as they may need. In this way the expense, risk, loss and perplexity of teams will be obviated, and the saints will more effectually escape the scenes of distress, anguish and death which have often laid so many of our brethren and sisters in the dust."
The three Handcart companies who left early in the summer of 1856 arrived safely in September and October without serious adventure or loss. There were two other companies that set out too late in the summer of 1856. Their history is a tragedy, making one of the saddest pages of Latter-day Saint history. They were caught in the mountains by snowstorms and would never have reached the Salt Lake Valley if their rescue had not been effected by heroic men with teams and provisions. Even this help arrived too late for many. Other companies followed with the years, but the tragic experiences of the 4th and 5th companies were not repeated.
The Handcart companies brought to the State artisans, traders, agriculturists, blacksmiths, and men learned in all professions. While the hardships were many, the Handcart migration stands out as one of the greatest economic and social factors in the history of the Pioneers.
HERITAGE
The will and power to make our destinies, To seek, to choose, to cherish, and to work; The right to worship how and where we please— God gave; we must not, dare not, shirk
The task, the joy, of passing on this creed To those whose strength must serve tomorrow's need. —Cleone Montgomery. The Relief Society? Magazine Vol. XXVI Woman As An Interpreter ~ Of The Faith By Maude Beeley Jacob "A woman's rank lies in the fullness of her womanhood." WOMEN today point with pride, and justly so, to their accomplishments in the professions, the arts, commerce, industry, education, and politics. Today, the position and service of woman is elevated to a point never before attained; today, the power and responsibility of woman is most potent. In this new pride of achievement one pauses to ask, is the ancient pride of the mother of the Gracchi forgotten? In this new elevation of responsibility is woman neglecting her place in the trinity of father, mother, and child? Many and varied are the opinions of those who are considering the role of woman in the world of today. In discussing the heritage of woman, invariably the emphasis is placed upon her ignominious role as the possession of man in the ancient world. Anathemas re still being hurled at Eve for the woes of man and the world generally. The long struggle of emergence from "female to woman" receives much historical attention. Feminism and anti-feminism call for many a eulogy and many a diatribe. The pessimist looks to the future of civilization with alarm as he claims that because woman has stepped out of her role family and fireside have "left the house". To reveal the delusion of equality woman is constantly reminded that a woman has not yet been a Shakespeare, or a Newton, or a Michelangelo, or a Beethoven. Of the divinity of woman, her place in the scheme of creation, what has been said? Of the age-old role of woman, that of mother-teacher, her supreme contribution, what is needed most to be said? That which will bring to the heart of woman the conviction that: "God has placed the genius of woman in their hearts, because the works of this genius are always works of love." In the great heart of woman her significance intellectually, politically, or socially is not the supreme issue. Now, as of old, she accepts her dual role, that of mother and of teacher. Today, the sanctity of the home rests primarily upon marriage. The entire future of civilization depends upon parenthood. "To open the capacities of body, mind, and spirit, so that life may flow in upon a young soul" is the mission of motherhood. To this double-natured motherhood St. Augustine pays tribute as he records his eulogy of his mother, Monica: "She was twice my mother, brought me to birth in the flesh, that I might be born into this earthly light; in heart that I might
JULY, 1939 No. 7 436 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be born into light eternal." Ibsen, the keen analyst of the social forces that have molded our modern civilization, saw the significance of woman's dual role: "Women will solve the question of mankind, and they will do it as mothers.
They will serve also as teachers, the earliest of schoolrooms being the mother's knee."
From the pages of the great literary expression of the ages as well as from the creations of art and sculpture it is in this dual role which woman stands glorified and immortalized. S the "Mothers of Israel" lie revealed in the lives of the women of the Old Testament, it is the mother-love of the mothers of Moses and Samuel we turn to for inspiration. It was the mother-love that inspired the mother of Moses to place her babe that the woman-heart of Pharoah's daughter might cause his life to be spared. It, too, was her task to keep alive in her child's soul the faith of his fathers, trust in the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, a preparation which was to make him ready to be called by God to deliver Israel. It was gratitude for the gift of motherhood that gave Hannah courage to fulfil her promise and prepare her son, Samuel, for God's service.
Directing the boy's earliest thoughts toward Jehovah she related the great events in the history of the Hebrews, the lives of great leaders were told and retold with pride of detail; for in the Talmud Hannah had read, "Who is best taught?" also the answer, "He that is taught by - his mother." To her this was her sacred obligation.
After her son was accepted for service in the temple, Hannah's task received its approbation.
Then yearly she went to present the family sacrifice, taking with her the garments she had fashioned with her own hands for her son to wear.
This was her joy and her renewing. The reward of Hannah as of the mother of Moses came in the service of the sons that they had prepared for God's great purposes. Christianity, through Mary of Nazareth, the mother of Jesus, brought to the earth the divinity of motherhood. 'To us today Mary, the Mother, is a mystical figure unless her life is re-created out of the historical fabric of the New Testament. At her knee Jesus learned the record, laws, and wisdom of the Jews. To Joseph and Mary as Hebrew parents the training of a son was a serious responsibility. By the age of twelve he must know the commandments of Moses, the six hundred other laws that had been added to them, also the two hundred and fifty-eight forbids, for Judaism had become a religion of exacting discipline.
Then there was the historical record of the Old 'Testament to know in detail as well as the wisdom of the prophets.
Knowing as she did the divinity of Jesus and expecting the fulfillment of the Messiahship, how sacred the early training of the boy Jesus must have been to Mary. How she must have followed with eager concern the preparation for the first Passover at Jerusalem; how anxious for the approbation of the learned rabbis for her son's preparation, preparation for the divine mission.
