[Vol26 | July 1939 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Music Barnby]

MUSIC DEPARTMENT
SIR JOSEPH BARNBY (Composer of music for Tennyson's Crossing The Bar)
Of all the lovely verses the poet Tennyson has written perhaps no one verse has been more frequently quoted or has been accorded more popular favor than the one so familiar to all, Crossing The Bar. Today these words are of particular interest to us due to the fact that they have been set to appropriate music. Sir Joseph Barnby, the English composer and organist, was perhaps the first person to compose music for Tennyson's Crossing The Bar. This music is of "survival value," for it has lived through the years to comfort and bless humanity. Quite recently, through the fine cooperation of Dr. Frank W. Asper, this particular music was arranged for women's voices, and at the present time most of our Relief Society Singing Mothers are very familiar with both words and music, and copies of it are to be found in many of our Relief Society music libraries.
Sir Joseph Barnby lived an interesting, active musical life. He was born in York, England, August 12, 1838, the son of Thomas Barnby, the organist. At the age of seven he entered the Royal Academy of Music and also became a member of the choir of York Minster at the same time. At the age of twelve he was appointed choirmaster. In 1854, while a student at the Royal Academy of Music, he was "narrowly defeated" by Arthur Sullivan in the competition for the first Mendelssohn scholarship offered to the school. During the years of 1851 to 1863 he was known as "precentor and choirmaster". The word "precentor" was quite commonly used at that particular time, designating a leader of a choir or a singing director, or probably more specifically a leader of a choir in a cathedral. He was at one time music instructor in Eton College and later head of the Guildhall School of Music in London for many years. From 1871 to 1886 he was organist in St. Ann's School.
"In 1867, Novello, to whom he had been musical advisor since 1861, established Barnby's Choir, which gave oratorio concerts from 1869 to 1872 when it was amalgamated with the choir formed and conducted by Gounod, under the title of the Royal Albert Hall Choral Society, now the Royal Choral Society.
"He was appointed precentor of Eton in 1875, a post of the highest importance in the musical education of the upper classes, and retained this until 1892 when he succeeded Thomas Weist Hill as Principal of the Guildhall School of Music."
Several of his fine compositions, such as King All Glorious, The Lord Is King and his cantata Rebekah, a sacred idyll, as well as several secular choruses and songs won for him many favors both in England and in America, and in 1892 he was knighted. His works include 246 hymn tunes as well as some part songs, among them the popular Sweet and Low. It has been said of him that as a choirmaster he had great gifts and managed to secure a wonderful degree of accuracy.