Hoops For Amanda (Continued from page 450)
gers over her curls. "I'll wash and get changed. You're too fine for me."
With her young arms around him as far as they would go she hugged him and cried, "Oh, no, but we'll be the handsomest couple there."
Lifting her from the floor he held her close before releasing her. Amanda put on a large apron. It didn't cover her as it had when she wore no hoops. With a pad in her hand she lifted the pot of hot water from the hook and carried it over to the wash basin to pour into the cold water John had dipped out of the water bucket. John took off his shirt and stood waiting.
"I'll stop to give Carl his share of the molasses on the way. We still got that two gallon bucket around here?"
Amanda felt as if the hot water she was pouring from the kettle was going over her. She hadn't planned on telling John about the molasses until after the dance. John grabbed a handful of soap, using it vigorously. What could she do? Mechanically she handed him the towel.
"Where's the bucket?" he asked through the towel.
"It's in the spring house. Won't tomorrow be soon enough to take it to Carl?" she managed to say.
"His folks 've been without sweets, and it'll be good for breakfast.
What could she do?
This would spoil everything. She stood shivering.
John was combing his hair in front of the looking glass. She picked up the milk crock and began to pour milk into the cups. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY  503 "Did you move the molasses to the spring house? It's not in the corner."
Amanda took a deep breath. "It's gone," was all she could say.
John looked at her, comb in hand. "Where?" "M-Mr. Rader's boy Willie took it over to the store." She stood very still beside the table, but her hands made the bread knife tremble. "Why'd Willie do that? I didn't say I had any molasses to sell. There's a mistake." "N-noI- Isold the molasses."
John put the comb slowly down on the bench. "YOU sold the molasses?" She could only nod her head. It wasn't easy to talk when she might cry. "Tt wasn't yours to sell, Mandy." "It was half mine?wasn't it?"
John looked like he would drop to the floor. "Half yours?" he echoed. "Father gave it to both of us, didn't he? B-because you were married to me?" "He gave it to me to do with as I saw fit.
Part of it was promised for payment of work done."
John took a deep breath. '"Where's the money?" "T-there wasn't any." The tears were giving way to anger. He stared at her open-mouthed. "He had to give you something in money or barter." "Th-the hoops?I got the hoops for my dress." "Those things under your dress?" She nodded. "He allowed me a dollar a gallon."
John sat down on the nearest stool with a thump. "You set vanity before honor," he said slowly. 504 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "But father'll give us some more." "That is not the point. You knew the molasses was promised." "S-supper's ready," she said weak- "I don't want any." "You'd better change then or we'll be late." "['m not going. I promised molasses to Carl before the dance, and I can't give it to him. I don't feel like partying now." "But it's the first party since we've been married.". "You spoiled it. We stay home." "John Stopher, I had to have those hoops, but you'd never understand that. Mary Anne Davison'll be there and she's so?" _ She stopped at the bewildered expression on his face. "T won't stay home," she finished. "You can't go without me." "Oh, can't I?" Sobbing, Amanda rushed to the bedroom, tied on her bonnet and put on her heavy cape. She sailed past John with head high. If she hurried, it would be possible to get to the Jenson's before they left in their wagon for the amusement hall, for the building was too far away to walk in party finery.
Anger and pride soon dried the tears that had slipped from her lashes. "Could I ride with you to the dance?"
Amanda asked as Mrs.
Jenson answered her knock. The tenyear-old twins stood with their cloaks on ready to go out the door. Mrs. Jenson's eyes shone with admiration. "Sure, Mrs. Stopher. Say, you got hoops underneath that skirt?" "Yes.
John h-has something to take care of before he goes, and I thought I could go ahead with you folks?if you don't care." "I should say so. Girls, stop your staring and go get into the wagon. You can sit up with Carl and me in front."THE new amusement hall was fairly bursting with laughter, bustle and hustle and light.
Candles stood on the rough little shelves on the walls of the room, but there were none above the roaring fireplace, as the flames threw their dancing light over that end of the room. Ona long table with log legs were pies, side pork, roast wild turkey and sage hens.
Homemade bread and cornpone was piled high on a wooden platter.
Fresh butter glistened like captured gold.
Puddings made of "Mormon" corn gave forth savory odors, while jugs of milk and cider waited for the thirsty dancers. On one side of the fireplace Jeff Minton and Asael Trestor tuned up their fiddles while old Hezzy Whipple ran the scales on his accordion. Mary Anne had arrived before Amanda. She lifted her eyebrows when she saw that John was not with his wife. And when she saw the new dress her face seemed frozen with surprise.
Amanda hung her things on a peg and giving her waves and curls a pat she went to the fire to warm her hands. Mary Anne followed her. "So the little girl-wife has grown up now? You're dress is beautiful, Amanda. Is it a wedding present?" "The goods is. I made the dress." It made Amanda feel less triumphant when Mary Anne was so nice. "But the hoops. You must have seen a picture." "Aunt Annie sent me a new magazine called Harper's."
Amanda felt almost ready to offer Mary Anne the book when Mary Anne said, "Well, it makes you look more like a woman and less like a slat," and hurried away.
Amanda had many partners. Charlie Winton had told her she'd never be happy with John and should maryy him, but here he was dancing with her and admitting that he was wrong.
Anyone as radiant and lovely as she, and in such new style, must be very happy.
Amanda explained about John's tardiness, never doubting that he would come and save her reputation, for women didn't go to dances without their husbands. No one said anything, but she felt guilty. 'The evening went on and still no John. Mrs.
Jenson came up with a worried look. "You want Carl should go see if nothing's wrong?", "No, thank you, Mrs. Jenson. He'll be here soon," Amanda replied.
Then the thought of Indians shoved itself into the foreground of her mind.
Indians had been prowling around.
What if they got mean, knowing everyone was at the dance? Amanda's heart almost stopped beating. "If he isn't here in fifteen minutes Carl can go after him," she told Mrs. Jenson. "He's got to come. Heavenly Father, he must come," Amanda kept saying to herself. "I'm a selfish pig. He's right. I put vanity before his honor." But she couldn't rush into the night after her husband, nor could she tell everyone present that her husband might be in trouble and it was her fault. She was a baby and should be spanked. Why did she have to have such silly pride? She shouldn't have sold the molasses. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY 505
But if John was staying away to frighten her he should be ashamed? just as she was ashamed. HE was dancing with Fred Brown when she saw John standing just inside the door. Her heart felt as though it had pushed itself up against her breast-bone. She wanted to cry out, to run to him. John didn't look very cheerful, but that didn't matter as long as he was safe. Mrs. Jenson was talking and gesticulating with expressive arms in Amanda's direction. John had to look over and wave a hand, so she waved back with what she hoped looked like airiness. If she only could keep from crying. Darling John! So stern and unbending! He had saved her face by coming?just to be there. The music was brisk, and Amanda had to watch her step. John went over to the fireplace and talked to Carl. The older women were busy at the long table now. Would John come to her after the dance was over? The couples began moving around when the musicians stopped to rest, and Fred guided Amanda over to John. "Evenin' Fred." "Glad to see you here," said Fred. "We wus just beginning to think we'd better form a posse and go back to your cabin." "I told them you'd be late, but we all got worrying," Amanda said hurriedly. John looked at her with such a sober glance it made her catch her breath. "Everybody git your partner fer the Virginia Reel," called old Sam. "Git ready now. Last dance before? 9? The eatin'. "I get my wife fer this dance," said Fred Brown and ducked his head in a little bow. 506 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "You promised this to me," Charlie Winton had come rushing over, then saw John. Amanda looked miserably at her husband. "Sure," said John, "go on with Charlie." Oh, dear, this would never do. She'd have to dance the whole thing through with John standing there, and her heart was broken. He did not care after all. "Bow to your partners," sang out old Sam. Just as Charlie went back to his place opposite her, Amanda saw John leave the fireplace with a quick stride and come toward them. He took Charlie gently by one arm and pulled him out of line. Charlie grinned and stood back. Amanda almost stumbled. She knew everyone there was amused and thought it some little joke. As they held hands and went skipping up and down the line, John squeezed her hands and whispered, "Haven't I seen you somewhere before?" She smiled at him from the corners of her eyes, and her heart kept time with her feet. "Your face does look familiar, sir," she giggled as John grinned. As they held their arms high to allow the other dancers to pass through, John looked deep into her eyes, and Amanda felt like a flash of lightning had welded them together. The world was a cloud, and they were floating upon -UNDERWEAR.- Newest Improved Patterns For both Men and Women we have served you now for 39 years?can be purchased as usual
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42
South Main Street 1939
Samples and Prices sent FREE on Request stumbled. She knew everyone there was amused and thought it some little joke. As they held hands and went skipping up and down the line, John squeezed her hands and whispered, "Haven't I seen you somewhere before?" She smiled at him from the corners of her eyes, and her heart kept time with her feet. "Your face does look familiar, sir," she giggled as John grinned. As they held their arms high to allow the other dancers to pass through, John looked deep into her eyes, and Amanda felt like a flash of lightning had welded them together. 'The world was a cloud, and they were floating upon it. THE END TEMPLE & BURIALCLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN  In One Volume Published by Columbia University Press CONTAINS over 5,000,000 words; 1,965 pages of text matter; 53,313 articles, each designed to cover its subject adequately. Although prepared by scholars and experts, every article is simply and clearly written so that it is understandable to every reader. Nowhere is there waste verbiage or irrelevant or obsolete material. No religious, racial or political bias or prejudice. "The first one-volume encyclopedia in English worthy of the name," says the New York Times. The most useful book for home, school and office.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah $17.50
Yes! It's Convenient! It's Inexpensive!
Our New, Convenient, Inexpensive ready-made Binder for keeping your Relief Society Magazines readily accessible with a minimum of trouble. These binders are durable, attractive, and so made that a whole year's issues can be conveniently kept, issue by issue, ready for immediate reference. And the price is only $1.00 per binder!
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah Prompt Attention Given to Mail Orders and Inquiries
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
INSURANCE Heber J. Grant, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah