[Vol26 | July 1939 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: The Selection of an Widtsoe]
Bread, flour and cereals 20 15? 10? 15-10? including fats, sugars and; accessories Fats, sugars and accessories 20C lsc 15-20C *Stiebeling and Ward. Compiled from U. S. D. Of Agr., Circ. 296, 1933. SOME of the common weaknesses of the American diet, "meat, potatoes, white bread and dessert", are: First, twice as much money is spent for meat as is necessary to insure good nutrition. Meat is a good food but very expensive in terms of its food value. A little meat to flavor: a large quantity of vegetables is a good practice. Second, this type of A74 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE diet is lacking in the necessary protective foods, fresh fruits, vegetables and milk, that supply the mineral salts and vitamins.
DAILY FOOD SELECTION GUIDE
The following suggestions may be of further help in building balanced dietaries: Milk: Adults: At least one pint either as a beverage or in cooked food; fresh milk or its equivalent in evaporated or dried milk. Children: One pint to 1% pints or 1 quart of fresh milk. Do not let too much milk crowd out the green and colored vegetables. Vegetables: Adults: One serving of green vegetables, raw in salads or cooked; two other vegetables including colored vegetables, carrots or tomatoes, and potatoes two or three times a week. Growing Children: Two vegetables other than potatoes. Include green leafy or colored vegetables, carrots and tomatoes as often as possible. Fruits: Adults: One glass of fruit juice or tomato juice or fresh citrous fruits. Children: One glass fruit juice or tomato juice and two servings of fresh, raw or canned fruits. Whole Grain Cereals: Adults: One serving of cereal or one | serving of whole wheat bread. Children: One serving of cereal and two of whole wheat bread. Meat, Eggs, Cheese: Adults: One serving meat; one serving eggs or cheese. Children: One serving meat; one serving eggs or cheese. Cheese is an excellent protein food and should be used more extensively. Growing children require much more protein food in proportion to their weight than do adults. Cereals should be the dark, whole gtain varieties such as whole cracked wheat, dark farina, oatmeal, or whole pufted cereals. It is an excellent idea to add a small amount of wheat germ to the cereals. EXAMPLES OF WELL-BALANCED DAILY FOOD SELECTION These foods and amounts meet the average requirements for energy, protein, calcium, phosphorus, iron and vitamins A, B, C, G: Infants: Mother's milk or a modified milk formula with supplements such as cod liver oil, orange juice, vegetable jices, vegetable purees, etc. As prescribed by a physician. Child One Year: Class of Foods 1. Cereal grains 2. Milk Fresh liquid. 3. Vegetables Peas, canned or fresh Carrots String beans (All well cooked and strained ) Baked pototo. 4. Fruits Dark farina with added wheat germ. Bread?thoroughly toasted. Orange, pineapple, grapefruit juice. Prunes, apricots, peaches, pears Quantity ? cup 2 slices 1 1/2 pints?1 quart 2 tablespoons 2 tablespoons 6 tablespoons 1-2 tablespoons (Cooked and strained?Canned fruits may be used. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 475
Butter Butter?fresh. 1 teaspoon Sugar Sugar. 1/2 teaspoon 7. Egg yolk Egg yolk, soft boiled. 1/2 yolk 8. Cod liver oil Cod liver oil. As prescribed by a physician. Pre-school Child: 1. Foods from whole Whole cereals with added wheat germ. 3/4 cup  wheat bread. Crackers, whole wheat. 2 small 2. Milk Milk. 1 1/2pints?carrots, beets, well cooked but not strained. 1/3-1/2 cup Potato baked. 1 medium 4. Fruits Orange, pineapple, grapefruit juices cup All cooked fruits. 1/4- cup Banana. 5. Butter Butter. 2 teaspoons 6. Sugar Sugar, honey, molasses. 1 teaspoon 7. Eggs, cottage Egg, boiled or coddled, or 1 egg cheese, meat. Cottage cheese. School Children: Larger servings of each of the food groups as the children advance in age, leading up to a maximum amount for an active boy, should include all kinds of well-cooked whole cereals with top milk, all kinds of bread rolls, Graham crackers; a quart of milk used as a drink or in cooking; large servings of vegetables, potatoes ?2 medium size, cabbage?1 cup or more, cooked or raw; all kinds of cooked vegetables?at least two kinds daily other than potatoes, lettuce??%4 head; butter?3-4 tablespoons; bacon?2 slices; sugar, honey, molasses, 3 tablespoons; eggs, cheese, meat?one helping daily, one or two eggs and 2-3 ounces of cheese. Adults: It is a serious mistake for adults Ground lean beef patty, or 1-2 tablespoons 3-4 tablespoons to feel that since they have ceased to grow they do not need to give special consideration to their diet. There would be far fewer sets of false teeth, far fewer cases of digestive disturbances and much less premature aging if adults were well nourished. To maintain health there is never a time in life when adequate nutrition is not an important consideration. The adult needs all the various nutrients that children require but in different amounts. Our quantities of food for energy will vary in terms of our activities, but our needs for adequate protein, mineral salts and vitamins is urgent throughout the entire life cycle. The problem for adults is to select a balanced dietary and to limit the quantities to our needs. Overreaching is a common error, cereal grains in Bread, whole wheat including whole Flour for thickening white sauce. 3. Vegetables 2
Slices 2 teaspoons All mild flavored vegetables: Peas, beans, carrots, beets, well cooked but not strained.
