Miss Lena M. PHILLIPS President Business and Professional Women's Clubs—1928—who touched the 'button and illuminated Shoshone Falls. THE Relief Society Magazine Vor. XVI AUGUST, 1929 No. 8 The Touch of a Woman's Hand By Cora C. Ritchie At last the great Shoshone Falls at Twin Falls, Idaho, were to be lighted. For days men had planned and studied, and now the necessary money was ready. On May 28, 1928, a big celebration was arranged. The falls, higher than the famous Niagara, were to be illumined, so that by night as by day their beauty and grandeur could be seen in a nature color scheme. They are 212 feet high and across the entire width of the river water plunges in white and downy clouds. The falls are located on the mighty Snake River, five miles east of Twin Falls City. As one nears the molten masses of lava, by the edge of the canyon, the rumble and roar of the falls increases till at high water it is deafening. This night the rocks were covered with thousands of people, old and young. Cars from many States had been seen on the highways leading to the falls. From the level above the falls the first sight of the Snake River, muddy and treacherous, angry and powerful, causes a feeling of fear to grip the soul. Then, as it breaks over the falls, the water takes on a false tone. Muddy swirls are changed to soft billowy white. Still farther the spray breaks up into a mist as dainty as baby-breath flowers and as alluring as the Lorelei. Thousands of people clamber up and down the precipitous edges of cliffs, in every direction. Cars are parked on the canyon rims and on opposite sides of the river. The water, leaving the falls and rolling on, gives. Life to thousands of acres of otherwise barren waste. Meditating, listening, wondering, we gaze far out over all the panoramas. Level streches of water, gorgeous falls, sparkling spray and delightful mists—then the still, deep water so far below that  one becomes dizzy from looking down. We meditate on God and man; on God the creator and this splendid miracle, just one small item in his vast creation! Or listen to those who exclaim, "How wonderful that man could light up this great spectacle;" or wonder what this mighty Snake River with its molten masses of lava looked like when God planned a change and formed it: What was it like when the impenetrable lava was soft and hot? Or when the crash came, and these vast crevices were opened? What sounds? What shocks? Who saw? What of man? What deep sorrow? What terrors? The answers were given only by the ever-onward rush and roar of the mighty falls—mocking, laughing, sneering, but ever falling, falling, falling. Why, the people have shrunken smaller, insignificant as the busy ants that hurry over the round top of the lava seat. The car lights are as dim as the distant stars. Yes; but man is struggling—uis going on, is imitating the one great Creator. How near will he ever attain? Even now, in order to change darkness to light, man is harnessing part of the vast volume of water for light and power. As nine o'clock approached, excitement ran high. A woman's hand to illuminate that great river! The touch of a finger was to change the face of that dark, fearsome, roaring chasm, into life and beauty beyond description. Miss Lena Phillips of New York, the President of the Business and Professional Women's Club of the United States, was given the privilege of performing this miracle. At a given signal Miss Phillips touched a button. A glow of light breaking over the darkness brought color and beauty indescribable to river, falls, spray, and mists. Darkness turned to day. Void changed to life. The same river, the same falls, spray, mist; but oh! How different. How like the wonders wrought in all life by the touch of a woman's hand! Silence and gloom followed by exclamations of awe. Thousands stood, one mighty "Oh! How grand," was heard mingling with the roar of the mighty Shoshone. The episode was significant of woman's life, her works, her miracles, her absolute control of all life, if she but touches the right spring. I wonder if God did not create the river, the rocks, the falls, the mountains, the sea, the land, then ask woman ever to carry on, to give life, light, and beauty. Just to look at the great Shoshone Falls, suggests that God has never failed. Pray that God's woman never may.