Reynolds, Editor, Relief Society Magazine, 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not later than October 15, Through Clouds to Sunshine By Sophy Valentine One evening in May, when twilight was falling over the landscape, Ellen Saunders stood by the gate that separated her little world from the dug-way and what lay beyond it. In front of her streched the valley with its patchwork of wheat and corn fields; newly planted tomato rows; acres of sugar beets, thick and thrifty, ready to be thinned; here and there a brown gray bit of fallow and a corner patch of potatoes. Farther away, showing darkly green against the evening sky, were waving peach and cherry orchards. Close behind her rose the eternal granite wall of Rockies in their dark, mysterious majesty. Still closer was the ravine, filled with rocks and boulders, and then the sagebrush-covered stretch, all inclosed in her own little ten-acre farm. To the west lay her five-acre piece of lucern land, with its sweet-scented blossoms softly swaying in the evening breeze. Over it, as far as the eye could see, the afterglow painted the sky a thousand beautiful tints. And to the east!?to the east lay what had been Ellen's pride and prize possession, her one-acre strawberry patch. Have you ever owned a strawberry patch? One from which you have hauled every rock on a wheelbarrow, plowed every inch with an old worn-out plow and a ditto old nag; harrowed it with a borrowed harrow because you could not afford to own one yourself? And then, at last, set out in leng even rows your young healthy plants, and tenderly tended, hoed, and watered them, month after month in the season thereof, and finally picked the luscious fruit ready for the market? If you haven't, Ellen would tell you that you have missed half your life. But Ellen's face is drawn and worried; her eyes are eagerly, anxiously scouting far along the road toward the town, and her ears are atune to every sound that rises on the still air. She is aroused by a meadowlark, who sends his happy notes skyward. She starts, turns, and with heavy masculine tread goes to shut up her chickens. On the way back to her observation post, she passes the little adobe house, with its creeping vines, and walks slowly, reluctantly, over to the berry patch. There she stops and, with folded arms and grief-filled eyes, contemplates, as it were, every well-rounded hill and vine, now heavy with buds and blossoms. THROUGH CLOUDS TO SUNSHINE 433 A sob-like sigh escapes from the overloaded heart and she finally tears herself away and walks toward the gate. From thrifty old habit she picks up a stone in her path, weighs it in her hand undecidedly; a malicious gleam shoots into her eyes and with a swift, strong stroke she hurls it into the berry patch. With rising anger she searches the ground for another; and then, as if ashamed, hesitates and drops down on a nearby tree stump, where she buries her face in her hands, resting elbows on knees, and sobs out her anger and grief. After a little the storm has spent itself and she dries her tears with the old, rough string apron. Night is settling over the valley. Mysterious shadows come out. Down from the foothills, where he daily finds his food, comes old Buck, stops 'at the stable door a while, and then shuffles awkwardly over to the gate, where his mistress is again at her post. He, too, seems sorrow-laden, or perhaps it is just old age that weighs him down. He noses about her elbow; and, absently, Ellen picks up the dragging halter-rope and leads him to the stable, where already Mirandy lies chewing her cud in stupid contentment. Then she takes up her waiting and watching once more. Finally there's a familiar sound in the distance?halting footsteps. Tom, at last. Tom is her 18-year old son, the apple of her eye, the pivot on which her universe turns. But Tom is a cripple and a weakling; he has a "bad hip," left him from a protracted case of scarlet fever when he was four years old. Ellen goes hurriedly out to meet him. With an effort she endeavors to keep her voice natural. "What makes you so late, Tom?" "Oh, we had some trouble; Al's Liz went on the blink and we had to hoof it most of the way home. We left the old bug at Pete's store, so you see we had quite a tramp of it." "And?and?" "Yes, Ma, its just as we've known all along?the survey was bunk and it was no use hoping that the papers would show anything different. We'll have to look for our land up in the foothills; among the boulders and sagebrush. You knew it all before, Ma; the berry patch is his?its no use whining." Yes, Ellen knew. It had been explained to her, in technical terms, time and again, that there had been a wrong survey made and that when she had bought the ten-acre farm eight years ago, the former owner had sold it to her in good faith, no one suspecting any trouble till the previous fall. Then her neighbor on the east, Fred Bowen, had taken it into his head to have his farm surveyed and it was discovered that his land took in two acres of what Ellen supposed was hers, including  her precious berry patch. Her own plot of ground took in only the ravine and two acres of sagebrush-covered ground stretching above that. It had come as an awful blow when it was first made known to her, and Ellen refused to believe it. But the county surveyor had been out and it was all certified; today the papers had been handed to Tom, that plat so and so, covering the ravine and two acres above it, together with five acres of lucern land, etc., belonged to Mrs. Ellen Saunders. Mother and son went into the house. With shaking hands Ellen brought down the kerosene lamp from its shelf. Lighting it she set out Tom's supper of bread and milk on the oii cloth covered table, in silence. Tom ate his supper, also in silence, while his mother studied the papers. Off and on a vengeful expletive escaped her. At length she folded the papers with a deep sigh and rose to her feet. She rested both toil-hardened hands on the table and stared stonily into vacancy. "There ain't no justice and there ain't no kind God, Tom," she said at length. "I know its tough, Ma! It seems a shame you should lose out. But, I dunno?maybe it'll come out all right." "How can it come out right, when its all wrong, you loony boy!" she snapped. Tom had finished his supper; pushing the dish away, and leaning his elbow on the table, he cleared his throat once or twice. "Well," he began, "I been thinking a whole lot lately, since all this crazy business begun; and I've been looking at the dirt above the gully; its good stuff. And I'm going to clear it?grub out the stage and haul off the rocks." Ellen turned in amazement. "You?" incredulously. "Yes, me! I've tinkered around doing nothing long enough. And maybe we've got just what was coming to us?? me for being so no-account and you for humoring me." He looked accusingly at his mother. "Well! Trouble never comes single-handed, I've hearn! You know you ain't able to do it with yer lame leg and?" "Yeah, I've heard that tommy-rot so often; but I'm going to try; that's all." Ellen got but little sleep that night; she lay tossing and thinking. She knew now that there was no use hoping any more. The bottom seemed to have dropped out of everything. Her years of hard work had come to nothing. She couldn't do it all over again, she was well on the other side of fifty. Tom's talk of clearing the ground above the gully was all bunk; he THROUGH CLOUDS TO SUNSHINE 435 hadn't the strength, poor kid; he might be willing enough. Talk about a kind Providence! Huh! Hadn't she had her share of troubles? Widowed since Tom was a baby, and Tom, her only child, a cripple! No, they needn't come to her and talk. The Relief Society teachers came and tried to comfort her, offered what help was in their power. Ellen wanted no help from them. They tried to make her feel that all would work out for her good. She snorted. If there was justice in anything, she would like to be shown; they need not waste their sympathy on her; she wanted none of it. The summer passed. In the pride and hardness of her heart, Ellen refused to pick the berries when they ripened, as ber neighbor urged her to do. She flung in his teeth that since he had stolen her land, he could have it all. Fred Bowen was a fair-minded man, who was willing to deal justly with her. But Ellen spurned his offers. He had his own children pick her berries, sold them, and keeping out only the price paid to the pickers, he paid the money to Tom, who gladly received it and put it in the bank. For fear of meeting her obnoxious neighbors, Ellen ceased going to her meetings and retired into her own hard shell, growing more bitter as time went on. Tom was as good as his word. He worked late and early having many a hard tussle with the stubborn sagebrush and the heavy rocks. In the beginning, he nearly collapsed and had to lie down often, flat on the ground, and groan and pant, almost shedding tears of exhaustion. He never complained. His mother saw but made no comment. The boy would likely work himself to death. Where was the difference? Why should not her only bit of comfort be taken from her? Neighbor Bowen came over and cut Tom's lucern and Tom was more and more taking the responsibility of the little farm. Ellen wondered but said "nothing. His appetite increased amazingly and he grew brown as an Indian. Fall came; the taxes were paid, and Tom and old Buck brought down the winter's supply of wood from the mountains. He had cleared nearly an acre of ground single-handed. A new light had come into his eyes; he was growing taller and broader. Ellen grimly suppressed a smile the day she saw him lift the old plow into the wagon. "He couldn't have done that last spring," she mused. They had a couple of favorable fall months with plenty of moisture and warm weather. Tom plowed the ground he had cleared. It was hard work; there were lots of deep-rooted stumps and he shook his head many times as he wiped the perspiration from his face and neck.  Tom and the neighbor had many friendly consultations over the fence. The fence had been moved. Ellen saw this friendly intercourse and objected strenuously. "What you havin' all them long confabs with that land thief for?" she wanted to know. "I don't like it and I want you to stop it!" "Yes, but I ain't going to, and he ain't no land-thief. The land's his." "Well, for the lan' sakes!" Tom dared to defy her. Ellen kept silent from the sheer amazement that stirred so peculiarly within her. Tom had grown up. One day, about the middle of January, Tom had gone over to the neighbor's and was gone a long time. Ellen couldn't imagine what was in the wind. After a while he came back bearing a bushel basket tightly covered. He came in flushed and smiling. "Do you want to see something pretty, Ma? Then come out."' Ellen eyed the basket apprehensively and with disfavor. Tom uncovered it and showed three fine young turkeys, two hens and a gobbler. Ellen knew the neighbors kept turkeys and had often wished she could get a start. "Well, what you goin' to do with them?" bruskly. "Going to raise turkeys, and this is the start. Fred Bowen's made me a present of 'em; they're worth a good biti of money. There's money in turkeys, and up here among the boulders under the mountains is just the place for them. They'll roost in the old poplars summer and winter and they can almost find their own feed all summer; in the fall, of course, is the time it'll take something to fatten 'em up for the holidays." "Oh, I see; the old rascal knows he's done wrong and now he's going to try to make up for it," she blurted wrathfully; "but I won't have 'em on my place, them nor nothin' of hisn's." She strode away in anger; but Tom took no notice. They had what the old settlers called an open winter that year, and Tom kept busy, digging post holes for a fence around the land he had cleared. He had bargained for a lot of cedar posts and in the spring he hoped to be able to get the wire. Off and on of an evening he would disappear without saying where he was going, but Ellen had her suspicions and sat nursing her resentment till his return. In February the turkeys began to lay. Ellen began to take an interest. She turned the big, fine eggs daily till the latter part of March, when both turkey hens were set on 20 eggs each. In due time they came off with 16 and 18 chicks respectively. Ellen's interest grew. THROUGH CLOUDS TO SUNSHINE 437 Spring came early that year. Tom plowed and harrowed the land he had cleared, and his mother helped him set out the young strawberry plants from her own old patch. In eatly July the turkey hens set again and came off with a brood of 37 between them. Ellen's old chicken coop had been thoroughly disinfected and her chickens disposed of. They seemed to have good success with their turkeys. The early birds were sold at Thanksgiving; the later ones at Christmas time. My, what busy times! They sold about 55 altogether, at an average of $4 a piece; kept some, of course, for the next year's crop. Another winter, which was long and rather cold; but Tom kept busy every day, tending the turkeys, hauling rock, when that was possible, for a coop of bigger dimensions. Evenings found him busy doing Church work; he was seldom at home, but his mother had ceased to harbor any resentment about it. Seeing, perhaps, the futility of objecting further. Spring came again?came with a bound and a wealth of promises for the inmates of the little adobe house. This year they would be able to harvest quite a crop of berries. Tom had bought a new horse and was contemplating getting a new wagon. The turkey business was growing. Ellen marveled at Tom. Was this the listless weakling she, like a silly old hen, had clucked to all these years? He had grown in height, in breadth; the limp was scarecly noticeable. The face too, once so thin, had grown strong. He looked self-reliant and every inch a man. One Sunday afternoon in late September Ellen, seated once more on the old tree stump, viewed with inward pride her domain?Tom's farm she called it. Over to the east, near the old berry patch, which now laid in rows of sugar beets, Tom had cleared a piece of ground and was laying the foundation of what he called their new house. But Ellen nodded her head significantly. Nobody needed to tell her that she was ever going to live in that. Not she! She could see through a millstone as far as most people. It wasn't for nothing that he and Bertha Bowen rambled the side hills in the twilight. But then, what of it? She wouldn't leave her little old house any way, and maybe it'd be all right. She "guessed them Bowen people was a pretty fine family." How she hated to admit it. A meadowlark sent up his glad song to heaven. Ellen looked up. The beautiful, fleecy clouds were tinted pink by the fiery afterglow in the west. How delicate and unfathomable they seemed as she gazed at them drifting slowly over behind the mountains, where they took on more somber colors. Just then came the strains from Tom's old accordian and a  minute later his voice rose in accompaniment to an old favorite tune of Ellen's. Tom played but indifferently and couldn't sing at all, as he himself would tell you; but the pleasing sound that floated out on the early evening air was like heavenly music in Ellen's ears, as the last bit of ice that had coated her heart melted away in warm tears flowing down furrowed old cheeks. She had to whisper to herself, "Yes, there is a good. Kind Father up there."