[Vol18 | March 1931 | Sequence: 13b | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field]

Notes to the Field

Bicentennial of George Washington
In 1924, when Calvin Coolidge was President of the United States, the George Washington Bicentennial Commission was created by joint session of Congress.

The purpose as expressed by that body is—"to so commemorate the first true American that future generations of American citizens may live according to the example and precepts of his exalted life and character and thus perpetuate the American Republic."

An important part of this celebration will be the planting of ten million trees throughout the United States to be dedicated with appropriate ceremonies by the citizens of the various communities on Feb. 22, 1932.

A record will be kept of all trees planted and the names will be recorded as members of the American Tree Association, and certificates will be sent to each one.

In Dec., 1930, Governor George H. Dern appointed the Utah Bicentennial Commission of which Chauncey P. Overfield is chairman, to arrange Utah's part in the National celebration.

The Utah Commission aspires to have each city and town in Utah arrange a tree planting program for Arbor Day. (Which will be on or before April 15.)

Such trees are to be dedicated with appropriate ceremonies Feb. 22, 1932.

The General Board of Women's National Relief Society in recent session voted to co-operate with the Utah Commission in this tree planting program.

Every stake and ward might arrange for appropriate planting in suitable places such as grounds of houses of worship, play grounds, public parks, etc.

The Relief Society has always responded to every patriotic appeal. This is a rare opportunity to honor the father of our country and at the same time to enrich the forestry and beautify some sacred spot.

The Jones-Cooper Bill
The General Board is watching with keen interest the fate of the Jones-Cooper Maternity Bill, the successor to the Sheppard-Towner Act, which authorizes "an annual federal appropriation of one million dollars to be spent along with equal amounts from states for promotion of the health and welfare of mothers and infants."

The Bill passed the Senate by a vote of 56 to 10 on January 10. On January 15, night letters were sent to Utah's representatives Colton and Loofbourow by the General Board stating that the Relief Society strongly favored the passage of this measure, and replies were received that these representatives favored the bill.

Magazine Subscriptions
We had hoped to publish in this issue the record of stake subscriptions to our magazine. So few stakes have made their report to us that we will wait to get word from more stakes. We note with pleasure that earnest, efficient work has been done by those who have reported. Many stakes have given prizes to the wards securing the highest percentage of subscriptions. Kindly send in your reports as soon as possible.

* * *

We wish to inform subscribers to the Magazine who have not yet sent in their renewal for 1931 that we still have January numbers. Also let us suggest that as an organization you have one volume bound each year and keep for reference in the files of your Relief Society.

Class Teachers:
Are you having the membership of the class participate or are you occupying all the time yourselves? Teaching is not a pouring in process. Draw out the members, stimulate their thinking, encourage them to express themselves.