Religious Education in the Family
By Milton Bennion

RELIGION, in some form or other, has been and still is one of the most powerful factors in development both of the individual and of the race. Religious education should, therefore, be an aspect of all education. This is also true of character education. These two most important aspects of education cannot be segregated. Whichever term we use should be regarded as including the other. Religious education is impossible without striving for development of character in the highest degree; character education is narrow and seriously deficient without the force and inspiration of religion. There is both a religious and a character aspect to all thinking, feeling, and doing. Formal theological instruction may be assigned to a particular day or to specific hours of every day. This cannot be true of religious education; it goes on all the time. The old idea of identifying religion almost wholly with public worship on Sunday and with family prayers at home has long since been superseded by a broader conception of religion. Not that these acts of worship are to be undervalued, but rather that their value is questioned if they are not supported by an active religious life every day and every hour. This intimate association of religion with everyday life is one reason why the family is the primary religious education institution. This has been one of the major functions of the family through all historic times; it must always be so, if the race is to continue to develop toward a higher civilization.

WHAT is the essence of religious education? It is concerned primarily with the development of personalities, with helping each person to realize the highest ideals of human life, to approach divinity as nearly as may be; as Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in Heaven is perfect." This is the supreme and ultimate goal of religious endeavor. It includes a keen sense of the intrinsic worth of personality and its evaluation above all else. It is also in high degree social because persons are essentially social. A person develops in and through association with other persons. Thus the welfare of community becomes a major factor in religion, and training in the amenities of social life becomes a major factor in religious education.

Religion is usually correlated with faith in Divine Providence or