[Vol9 | November 1922 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Prohibition Enforcement Clarissa S. Williams]

Prohibition Enforcement Clarissa S. Williams, President Relief Society. The passing of the saloon has been a beneficial social measure. With its disappearance certain undesirable social conditions have been removed and in a proportional ratio certain desirable social conditions have gained in strength. The elements that make for a h'gh standard of living, both for the community and for the individual, have been strengthened. The prohibition legislation has made possible to a greater degree the attainment of the essential elements of normal life—economic independence, health, education, recreation, and religion.. In the opinion of the police department, physicians, social workers, public officials, and others who are in a position tc make observations, socialconditions, since the enactment of the prohibition law in Utah, in 1916, have steadily improved. There has been an improvement in the living standards of the working men. Workers have become more regular and reliable, and their earnings have been applied to the maintenance of their families. Visible signs of want have decreased, and men, long under the surveillance of the police and other agencies, have become sober and self-supporting citizens. A certain Mr. W., the police chief stated, was almost a permanent resident of the jail before prohibition legislation, and the members of his family were dependent on charitable agencies for support. Now he owns an auto truck and earns a comfortable living as an expressman; he provides for his family and is purchasing an attractive little home. The health of the community has improved according to the reports of hospitals and physicians. Children are better clothed and fed, and as a result the community has enjoyed a higher standard of general health. The number of victims of alcoholism has decreased, although the few present cases are more malignant than they were formerly because of the inferior grade of liquor consumed. The educational improvement among adults has been marked by an increase in scholastic activities and by a greater circulation of books. That recreation has become more wholesome has been apparent by the increased demand for outdoor clubs and by the large attendance at public parks. In their new stability many wayward ones have responded to the appeal of religious teaching and have gained a guiding faith and a spiritual security.  Simultaneous with the strengthening of these constructive forces, there has been in the state a general decrease in crime. In Salt Lake City, the total number of arrests decreased from 9278 in 1916 to 7510 in 1921. (The latter figure includes a number of traffic violations of recently enacted ordinances, or the comparative figures would be more striking). The number of arrests for intoxication was 40% of the total in 1916, and only 8% in 1921. The number of cases of non-support and desertion has been reduced, and the number of children arrested by the police department has noticeably decreased. In both the Salt Lake City jail and the state prison there have been significantly fewer inmates since the enactment of the prohibition law. Prohibitionists, locally and throughout 'the country, must not permit the current encouraging facts, which various surveys disclose, to act as rose-tinted spectacles, through which they can see no drab nor gray effects. Every observing and open minded person realizes that alcoholic beverages are still obtainable in all parts of the country, and that various liquors are manufactured for sale and for private consumption. The practice of making intoxicating beverages in the home is a pernicious one. Such an infraction of the law has the unwholesome effect on the individual of making him an acknowledged law breaker and thus breeding in him a contempt for the laws of the land. That there is considerable traffic in the clandestine manufacture and sale of various beverages is obvious by frequent police raids and discoveries. These discoveries and arrests of guilty persons may represent, of course, only a small per cent. Of the number engaged in the illicit bus'ness. That these conditions were anticipated and are a natural incident in the adjustment period does not mitigate the seriousness of the situation It is somewhat early to! Predict if home brewing and illicit sale of intoxicants will be a protracted or a permanent problem. The degree of permanency and seriousness, however, will depend largely on the attitude and action of the public during the present stage of the prohibition history. Indications are that in Utah, public sentimen is strongly in favor of prohibition and against the modification of the Volstead act. Acknowledging then, that the sale and consumption of liquor is not entirely eliminated, it is obvious that something more than printed words on the statutes is necessary to bring about a realization of the prohibition plans. Unless public conversion, moral sense, respect for law, and social sentiment become acting and potent forces, the prohibition legislation will not accomplish its full possibilities. If the breaches and 566 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE violations are ignored and connived at by public officials, it is only natural that illicit consumption of liquor will increase, and some of the old pre-prohibition conditions will reappear. The problem, then, assumes a twofold aspect, that of preventing the making and consumption of intoxicants, and that of developing a wholesome regard for the laws of the land. Fundamentally, the printed word of the law is not the controlling force. Laws are but expressions and' outgrowths of the sentiments of the public mind. To be effective and efficacious a law must be supported by a general and wholehearted public approval. The law, of course, gives the prohibition movement a new strength. If the majority in a community have developed a sentiment in favor of law enforcement, violators are in danger of apprehension and conviction, and necessarily cease their activities to a large extent. On the other hand, a group of enforcement agents, no matter how zealous and diligent they may be in performing their duties, can accomplish but little in a community which, by the silent approval of the majority, permits the clandestine dispensing of intoxicants at restaurants, clubs and hotels.; In continued educational propaganda lies the only ultimate solution of the problem. Women can promote sentiment in favor of law enforcement by means of lectures, pamphlets, and by newspaper and magazine articles. An educational campaign may be conducted by them with a definite purpose of creating a sentiment in favor of a strict enforcement of the Volstead act. As a first step publicity should be given to. The dangers of consuming "moonshine" and home brewed liquors. Such a series of articles as has been printed recently by Samuel G. Blythe, giving the chemical analyses of these concoctions and revealing the actual poisonous elements in their composition, should be effective propaganda. The more the public learns of the deadly activ: ties of the butyl bug, and of the disastrous effect of the fusel oil and acetone contained in these home brewed drinks, the more abstentious the majority of individuals will become. An appeal more fundamental and permanent than the fear appeal is that of developing a motivating ideal. On a higher level than the individual who abstains because of physical fear, is the abstainer who is controlled by an active, realistic faith in the upbuilding and growth of humanity, and who, because of this ideal, refuses to dissipate his strength, his vitality, and his capabilities of appreciating the finer and more lasting beauties of life. PROHIBITION ENFORCEMENT: 567 From a confirmed personal ideal it is but a small expansion to a similar social ideal. If an individual develops a social sense he will desire to extend his own standards to the community group. Only by establishing high ideals and by creating a social conscience may the prohibition problem be brought to a permanent and satisfactory solution. Women in their organizations and federations'can do much to establish proper ideals and standards and to extend effective educational propaganda. In our Latter-day Saint communities, one of our active principles has been that of absolute abstinence from intoxicants. Abstinence, to our people, is more than a social standard: it is a religious ideal and law. Note: This paper was prepared by request for the Nationai Woman's Christian Temperance Union. MONUMENT TO EUGENE FIELD UNVEILED A monument to Eugene Field, the "children's poet," was unveiled October 9, 1922, in Lincoln Park, Chicago. The monument was the gift of thousands of school children, who assisted by contributing their pennies to the Ferguson memorial fund, in financing its erection. The speakers were Rev. William E. Barton, and Melville F. Stone, of the Associated Press, who is a surviving friend of Mr. Field, and who was influential in bringing Mr. Field to Chicago while Mr. Stone was editor of the Chicago Daily News.. Jean Field Foster and Robert Eugene Field, grandchildren of the poet, unveiled the statue. In the eulogy to the children's laureate, Mr. Stone said: "Tuning his lute to humanity's burden of care and grief, he sang the song of the helpless. He was 'notably the poet of sympathy. He was a many-sided character. He had a profound religious, even spiritual nature. The Puritan strain of his ancestry frequently cropped out in his daily life. Yet, over all there spread the warm, mellow ray of human sympathy which prompted some of the sweetest and most pathetic verses of our language. He sounded all the depths of tender emotion and voiced the agonized cry of bereaved motherhood and sisterhood and childhood with the tone and timbre and tempo of a master." The monument depicts a brooding angel bending over two sleeping children, dropping the flowers of poetry upon them. A Modern John Alden Julia A. Farnsworth Lund "What's that you say about Utah and New England institutions?" "Of course, we preserved them. Why shouldn't we? Many of us were from New England, of her very best blood I would say; and we brought with us the highest of her ideals, and perpetuated and fully developed them here in the valleys of the mountains. To the Puritans and their descendants, Thanksgiving was the greatest holiday of the year—a time of joyous festivity, in which every one must share, as well as a time of devout gratitude to God for his boundless mercies and blessings. I really am inclined to believe that we approach nearer to a correct observance of this sacred day than we do to any of the other holidays. It hasn't the spirit of vandalism of Hallowe'en, nor the boisterousness of the Fourth, nor the extravagant perversion of the true spirit of giving which has gone far toward spoiling Christmas. But then, you know, I have a very special reason for being fond of Thanksgiving." "Oh yes, tell it to us again, Grandpa; a life story such as yours is far more interesting than fiction." "Well, this little story is real life, of 'the time when the great west was being colonized and Utah was young. Crossing the plains in the fifties and sixties was not what it is now; you know nothing about the great American Plains. You have to cross them with an ox team to really know them. Think of it! In two days and nights you fly across a space of country that used to take us nine long weeks to travel.: "How did I happen to come west so early? Well, it was just this way. For some time I had been discontented in my New England home. Kate and I had come to look at things kind of cross wise, which didn't make me more content with my lot, so I just decided to pick up and go clear out to the far west. It was pretty hard to leave, and perhaps if Kate had given me a little encouragement, I wouldn't have left when I did, but I guess some would say it was my destiny, or something. At any rate, one morning in early spring, I said goodbye to my old home and started on the long journey down the coast from Boston, clear across the Gulf of Mexico to New Orleans, then up the winding course of the 'Father of Waters' to what was then called 'Winter Quarters,' in Missouri. From this place travelers started on the trip across the plains. "At frequent intervals, there were companies of emigrant trains, and it was never safe to attempt to cross the plains except