[Vol9 | November 1922 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Pioneer Days Laura F. Crane]

Pioneer Days Laura F. Crane The work on
PIONEER  the farm, usually done by the women—making butter, raising chickens, pumping water, milking cows, hitching horses and driving to town for groceries, was too much for this child who had only seen horses at a distance, and knew nothing about cows. She had been reared with a book in her hand, so she had read and heard much about those fearless pioneers and she had spent much time while in the lavas in comparing her life with theirs. She pictured the rugged men, saying to their courageous wives, as they built crude dwellings on the sage brush land, "This is the place where we shall live.' Oh my, those pioneer women were wonderful! So she spoke and thought as they wound farther and farther into the hills., Soon they reached a big, open space and the boy decided it was a good place to camp. They stopped and unhitched. The girl was much interested as he tied the front legs of the horses, explaining that this was just a precautionary measure. The horses were two of the best on the farm. He said he would feel safer, if he had to go far out of sight, if he knew the horses could not run. "You know," he said, "if the horses get away, you would have to walk these eighteen miles home or stay here after dark alone while I went: for help. So you keep your eye on the horses. Keep them headed away from the trail to the road and they will be all right." The girl had had no experience whatever with horses. She was really afraid of them. She had only come on this trip because she knew they would go slowly. She realized that she was somewhat nervous. At any rate she was glad the horses were hobbled. They fixed a comfortable little camp, and after eating the _ luncheon she had prepared, the boy took his ax and climbed up onto the hill, calling as he left, "Be sure to watch the horses." The girl cleared the luncheon, and fixing a seat in the shade opened her bag and began to work on the garments she had come to love so much. Working fast, the boy cleared the best poles around the rim of the dell where they were camped. Then he worked farther back. He planned to cut thirty or forty poles, then tie them together and drag them down. The regular thud of the ax became less and less distinct and soon all was still except for the sound of the horses as they munched the grass. Shadows were beginning to lengthen, Suddenly, without warning, the horses with wild rears started through the sage brush. She was frightened but thought that since they were hobbled she could easily catch them. She ran as fast as she could. One of the horses stopped long enough to turn and see her coming, then ion again he went at fearful jumps and leaps.  She ran on calling, "Whoa, whoa, whoa," but driven on by thirst, and maddened with the hobbles, they had no intentien to stop. It seemed as if they were headed for the ends of the earth. The girl stopped and fell to her knees, and in sobbing supplication asked her heavenly Father to help her. In an instant, as if those animals had been struck by lightning, they stopped dead still. The girl was amazed and wondered what they could have seen or heard that could so effect them. She, too, stopped. The horses turned and saw her but made no effort to move. She approached them, telling them gently, "Whoa, Pete, whoa, Lad." Trembling till she was almost unable to, unstrap the buckles, she let loose the hobbles, took the horses by the bridles, and started back, humility to God filling her soul. Coming up the trail the husband found her a few minutes later. When, after seeing from the ridge of the hill that his wife was gone and the horses, too, he had dashed down and following the prints of the horses' hoofs, had found their trail. Carrying her gently back to the wagon, he hurriedly hitched the horses and as fast as he dared, traveled home. The next day a tiny, tiny babe was born to them, and though weak and tired, the mother came through the ordeal safe and sound. At bed time she often tells her little boy tales of her pioneer days out by the lavas. GIVE GOOD BOOKS TO THE CHILDREN FOR CHRISTMAS The children's room of the Public Library of Salt Lake City, on State Street, will have an exhibit of books suitable for Christmas gifts for children, during Children's Book Week, (November 12 to November 18) and after. There w: ll be on exhibition the beautifully illustrated editions of the classics; for instance, Rip Van Winkle, illustrated by Wyeth There will also be a number of less expensive books, but all will have been selected under the supervision of the children's librarian and will be well worth buying and keeping. So much money is wasted every year during the Chr'stmas season in buying worthless books for childrea that this exhibit should be looked upon, by parents, as an opportunity to receive help in selecting the best for their homes.