[Vol9 | November 1922 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: An Old Time Thanksgiving Helen Everston Smith]

An Old Time Thanksgiving Helen Everston Smith (Copyright, 1910, Moffat, Yard & Co., New York, Reprinted in the Relief Society Magazine by courtesy of the publishers.) The following account of a Thanksgiving dinner in 1779 is given in a letter of Juliana Smith's, copied by her into her diary—a praiseworthy practice not uncommon, when letters were written with care axd might easily be lost in transmission, This letter was addressed to its writer's "Dear Cousin Betsey." Who the latter may have been, I do not know, but presume that she was a daughter of the Rev. C. M. Smith's elder brother, Dan. After the usual number of apologies for delay in writing, Juliana proceeds: "When Thanksgiving Day was approaching, our dear Grandmother Smith (nee Jerusha Mather, great-granddaughter of the Rev. Richard Mather of Dorchester, Massachusetts) who is sometimes a little desponding of spirit as you well know, did her best to persuade us that it would be better to make it a Day of Fasting & Prayer in view of the Wickedness of our Friends &c. The Vileness of our Enemies, 1 am sure you can hear Grandmother say that and see her shake her cap border. But indeed there was some occasion for her remarks, for our resistance to an unjust Authority has cost our beautiful Coast Towns very dear the last year & all of us have had much to suffer. But my dear Father brought her to a more proper frame of Mind, so that by the time the Day came she was' ready to enjoy it almost as well as Grandmother Worthington did, & she, you will remember, always sees the bright side. In the mean while we had all of us been working hard to get all things in readiness to do honour to the Day. "This year it was Uncle Simeon's turn to have the dinner at his house, but of course we all helped them as they help us when it is our turn, & there is always enough for us all to do. All the baking of pies & cakes was done at our house & we had the big oven heated & filled twice each day for three days before it was all done, & everything was GOOD, though we did have to do without some things that ought to be used. Neither Love nor (paper) Money could buy Raisins, but our good red Cherries dried without pits, did almost as well & happily Uncle Simeon still had some spices in store. The tables were set in the Dining Hall and even that big  room had no space to spare when we were all seated. The Servants had enough ado to get around the Tables & serve us all without over-setting things. There were our two Grandmothers side by side. They are always handsome old Ladies, but now, many thought, they were handsomer than ever, & happy they were to look around upon so many of their descendants. Uncle & Aunt Simeon presides at one Table, & Father & Mother at the other. Besides us five boys & girls there were two of the Gales & three Elmers, besides James Browne & Ephraim Cowles. (Five of the last-named seven, were orphans taught and in all ways provided for by Parson & Mrs. Smith.) We had them at our table because they could be best supervised there. Most of the students had gone to their own homes for the weeks, but Mr. Skiff and Mr.—, (name illegible) were too far away from their homes. They sat at Uncle Simeon's table & so d'd Uncle Paul and his family, five of them in all, & Cousins Phin & Poll (probably Phineas and Apollos Smith, sons of Dan). Then there were six of the Livingston family next door. They had never seen a Thanksgiving Dinner before, having been used to keep Christmas Day instead, as is the wont in New York & Province. Then there were four Old Ladies who have no longer Homes or Children of their own & so came to us. They were invited by my Mother, but Uncle and Aunt Simeon wished it so. "Of course we could have no Roast Beef. None of us have tasted Beef this three years back as it all must go to the Army, & too little they get, poor fellows. But Nayquittymaw's Hunters were able to get us a fine red Deer, so that we had a good haunch of Venisson on each table. These were balanced by huge Chines cf Roast Pork at the other ends of the Tables. Then there was on one a big Roast Turkey & on the other a goose, & two big Pigeon Pasties. Then there was an abundance of good Vegetables of all the old Sorts & one which I do not believe you have yet seen. Uncle Simeon had imported the Seede from England just before the War began & only this Year was there enough for Table use. It is called Sellery & you eat it without cooking. It is very good served with meats. Next year Uncle Simeon says he will be able to raise enough to give us all some. It has to be taken up, roots & all & buried in earth in the cellar through the winter & only pulling up some when you want it to use. "Our Mince Pies were good although we had to use dried Cherries as I told you, & the meat was shoulder of Venisson, instead of beef. The Pumpkin Pies, Apple Tarts & big Indian Puddings lacked for nothing save Appetite by the time we got round to them.. "Of course we had no Wine. Uncle Simeon has still a cask or two, but it must all be saved for the sick, & indeed, for those  who are well, good Cider is a sufficient Substitute. There was no Plumb Pudding, but a boiled Suet Pudding, stirred thick with dried Plumbs & Cherries, was called by the old Name & answered the purpose. All the other spice had been used in the Mince Pies, so for this Pudding we used a jar of West India preserved Ginger, which chanced to be left from the last shipment which Uncle Simeon had from there, we chopped the Ginger small and stirred it through with Plumbs and Cherries. It was extraordinary goods. The Day was bitter cold & when we got home from Meeting, which Father did not keep over long by reason of the cold, we were glad eno' for the fire in Uncle's Dining Hall but by the time the dinner was one-half over those of us who were on the fire side of one Table was forced to get up & carry our plates with us around to the far side of the other table, while those who had sat there were as glad to bring their plates around to the fire side to get warm. All but the Old Ladies who had a screen put behind their chairs." sHere it may be allowed to break in upon Juliana's narrative to explain that the hall in which this dinner was laid, now long used as a kitchen, is a room about thirty feet long from north to south and twenty-two feet wide. A glazed door and a window open upon piazzas from each end. On the western side a broadly hospitable door opens into the staircase hall of the main building, while in the dining-room itself another flight of stairs ascended from the same side to the wing's chambers. On the eastern side is the immense chimney where once yawned a fireplace that "would comfortably hold a full sled load of eight foot logs." With such a fire it is no wonder that the guests seated near to it were glad to exchange places with the others, who—probably half freezing— were on the other' side of the room. When I was about seven or eight years old the heavy ceiling beams, darkened with age and smoke, were hidden away from view by a plaster ceiling. I pleaded in vain for the "pretty brown beams" to be left in sight, but my grandmother was inflexible, and no doubt, in the interest of comfort for her servants, she was quite right to close the drafty fireplace and lower the lofty ceiling. Nevertheless it was a pity, and I have never ceased to regret it. "Uncle Simeon," proceeds Juliana, "was in his best mood, and you know how good that is. He kept both Tables in a roar of laughter with his droll stories of the days when he was studying medicine in Edinborough, & afterwards he & Father & Uncle Paul joined in singing hymns & Ballads. You know how fine their voices go together. Then we all sang ahymnandafterwards my dear Father led us in prayer, remembering all Absent Friends before  the Throne of Grace, & much I wished that my dear Betsey was here as one of us, as she has been of yore. "We did not rise from the Table until it was quite dark, & then when the dishes had been cleared away we all got round the 'fire as close as we could, & cracked nuts, & sang songs & told stories. At least some told & others listened. You know nobody can exceed the two Grandmothers at telling tales of all the things they have seen themselves, & repeating those of the early years in New England, & even some in the Old England, which they had heard in their youth from their Elders. My father says it is a goodly custom to hand down all worthy deeds & traditions from Father to Son, as the Israelites were commanded to do about the Passover & as the Indians here have always done, because the Word that is spoken is remembered longer than the one that is written * * * Brother Jack, who did not reach here until late. On Wednesday though he had left College very early on Monday Morning & rode with all due diligence considering the snow, brought an orange to each of the Grandmothers, but Alas! They were frozen in his saddle bags. We soaked the frost out in cold water, but I guess they wasn't as good as they should have been?" x * x