[Vol4 | September 1917 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Poem | Title: Reclaimed. A Poem Coral J. Black]
Reclaimed. Coral J. Black. T stood beside the casket where she lay Robed for her last long sleep in snowy white  My only child, my hope for future years, The center of all dreams, my soul's delight. For me the sun of joy would shine no more, Nor would the songbird pipe one happy note; Their sweetest melodies would only seem to me Echoes of tones thrilled from her slim, white throat. The fair face wore a look of peace divine, A smile did part the lips once proudly curved; Tt only made my anguish more acute And fed the flame of wrath against my Lord: "O do they tell me Thou art good and just, That Thou dost heed the widow's tears and prayers? If that were true, Thou wouldst have left her here To share my joys and lighten all my cares." RECLAIMED. 487 Alone, Alone! Ah ye who have not been alone Can never know the anguish of that word; The aching void within  the dull despair, The bitter pangs with which the heart is stirred! I was alone. My lips refused to pray, And from my heart dark, vengeful feelings rose, I could not murmur, "Lord, Thy will be done," Nor see the hidden blessing in my woes. Then a deep brooding calm slow settled down Over my aching head and broken heart  Thick, soft and warm like velvet o'er me piled, And from my burning eyes the cool tears start; And then, while still my tired senses clung To things most earthy, tangible and real  A vision of surpassing loveliness Enwrapping and entrancing me did steal. It seemed I sat beside my cottage door, Before me stretched a highway broad and clean, Whose vista showed an ever narrowing way Lined on each side with lindens fresh and green. And down the street, not very far away, I saw my child in dainty garments dressed Walking away from me with sprightly steps. What throbs of joy pulsed through my aching breast! A stranger stood beside me. Thus He spoke: "Behold thy child  and life she would have led. They are thus shown to thee that thou mayest say, 'Thy will, O Lord, be done.' " I bowed my head And gazed intently on the picture there, A fair youth met the maid with fond embrace And arm in arm they slowly wandered on  My child with such a happy, beaming face. And then it seemed, though distance dimmed the view, Some trouble or dispute had marred the day. With vain endeavor did he seek to lead My gentle darling from the peaceful way Into With a thorns by-path and rocky, weed-overgrown, thistles hidden in the sand. She pleads with him  she points the better way, And clings with love and fervor to his hand. But see! She hesitates  which way, which way! "The one who hesitates is ever lost." She gazes back at me and then at him, And seems within her soul to count the cost,
