Relief Society Bulletin Volume 1 December, 1914. Number 12 Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims in a very definite way to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction Is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders. Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. Relief Societies' Headquarters For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods. Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request. CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street INDEX TO LESSON STATEMENTS. PAGE

Thoughts and Reflections 1
Editorial Star of Bethlehem 3
Work and Business 5
Genealogy and Testimony 5
Home-Ethics 7
Home Gardening for Women 9
Literature 12
Art and Architecture 14
Note 15

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY

Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist.

1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah.
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City.
3. WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO., 29 W. First South St. Phone Was. 5234, Salt Lake City.
4. L. C. SMITH & BROS., Typewriter, 379½ So. Main St., Salt Lake City.
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South St., Salt Lake City.
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City.
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City.
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St., Salt Lake City.
9. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City.
10. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.
11. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City.
12. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main St., Salt Lake City.
13. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City.
14. CUTLERS, 36 S. Main St., Salt Lake City.
15. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City.
16. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Salt Lake City.
17. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City.
18. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City.
19. JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake.
20. MARION BANKS, Millinery, and Charlton's Suit & Cloak Co., 321 So. Main, Salt Lake.
21. SCRACE'S BAKERY, 24 S. Main, Salt Lake City.

ADVERTISEMENT: L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER

Ball Bearings Give Greater Speed and Stability to the L. C. Smith & Bros. Typewriter
Ball Bearing, Long Wearing

Because of ball bearing typebars, the keys respond as readily as perfect piano keys. The capital shift works with equal ease—no lifting of a heavy carriage but simply shifting the light typebar segment, thus insuring absolute accuracy.

Another advantage—this machine is complete in itself for all kinds of work: tabulating, billing, large envelopes, cards or paper as narrow as a postage stamp.

WRITE FOR CATALOGUE To L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER CO.
379 SO. MAIN STREET
Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENT: S. M. TAYLOR & CO.

Established 1860 Incorporated 1908

S. M. TAYLOR & CO.
UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS
Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR
The Pioneer Undertaker of the West

53 years in one location
251-253-255-257 East First South St.
Salt Lake City, Utah

MODERN METHODS
COMPLETE EQUIPMENT
EFFICIENT SERVICE

ADVERTISEMENT: L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE

A SUCCESSFUL COLLEGE GROWS

In one year our increase has been forty per cent.

L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

Day Sessions: seven dollars a month
Night Sessions: four dollars a month

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Vol. I. December, 1914. No. 12 Editor Mrs. Susa Young Gates Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Julina L. Smith Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society Office Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City One Dollar a Year Ten Cents a Copy Entered as second-class matter on February 18, 1914, at the Post Office at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. 

THOUGHTS AND REFLECTIONS. As the year draws to its close, we naturally turn to contemplate the past and to consider what has been accomplished worthy of merit or to be remembered as contributing to the general good of the world, or the people at large, and whether the year has been one of growth, in the larger sense, for mankind. In looking back this year we cannot help feeling that every other consideration falls into insignificance in view of the uncalled for and totally unnecessary war in which Europe is involved, and which surpasses in cruelty and horror any war since modern civilization began. In this terrible conflict the ambition of kings and rulers has surely reached its climax. Upon the slightest pretext, the horrid enginery and agencies of bloodshed have been set in motion, battle has been forced upon friend nations, and countries whose dreams and labors were all directed along the lines of universal peace have been compelled, in order to save their honor and their life, to take up the sword. Who is to answer for the lives lost in the conflict and the widows and orphans, whose sufferings must be beyond description? Who is to still the prayers, tears and entreaties which avail so little against armed hosts, called into battle under orders from their leaders, whom they must obey? 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN The lines of Kipling's poem continually force, themselves into the mind: "Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet, Lest we forget, lest we forget!"  Alas, there is no fear now of our forgetting it would be a relief indeed could we but forget the awful situation across the sea. But this is a relief impossible to those whose hearts are filled with pity and compassion. The dreadful spectre of bloodshed and carnage leaves neither peace nor rest in the minds of those who love their fellow men, and whose aim and struggle has been to bring about an era when war should be known no more. However, though our hearts bleed because of the desolation and strife, yet we should remember that there is a God in Heaven, who watches over all, and put our trust in Him, knowing of a surety that He doeth all things well. We should not be forgetful of the peace in our own land of promise, for we all know that America is the promised land, choice above all others. It is cause for gratitude that we as a nation are at peace with all the world; for though Mexico, our southern neighbor, has been and continues to be disturbed, there is no need for anxiety on our part except by way of sympathy with those who are being troubled and injured. As a nation we fortunately still seem free from any entanglement or participation in the unhappy conditions existing beyond the Rio Grande. The Latter-day Saints, as a people, have every reason to rejoice in the prosperity that has been showered upon them this year, especially in vegetation and fruits, the cattle upon a thousand hills, the sheep, and every living thing that adds to the support and sustenance of the people who inhabit these mountain vales. Great things are expected of this peculiar people, and they should keep in mind the counsel given by our leaders in days past and present, concerning the fulfillment of prophecies, when those who are in trouble and in want will flee to Zion for assistance. We who know these things and believe them, should be active and diligent, and on the alert at all times, making preparations for the fulfillment of prophecy, that the people may not be taken unawares, but be ready for emergencies with our lamps trimmed and burning. In these perilous and distracting times, great wisdom should be exercised by those who teach among the sisters in the Church. They should be careful and wise in giving advice, seeking diligently in prayer for the spirit of the Lord to guide them in all their sayings and doings, and duly recognize those who preside over them in the Relief Society. Our organization is expected to be in perfect harmony with the Priesthood in each: RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 3 locality; and if this is done, there is safety for all, and no danger of getting wrong ideas on any subject. Pride, says the Scripture, goeth before a fall, and the warning is a true one. Humility is one of the noblest attributes of human character, and it will bring down upon its possessor the blessings of Heaven. Finally, in view of the dire condition of the world today and the events about to transpire in the near future, it behooves us as women of Zion to set an example of excellence to all the world having that true charity that never faileth, ; exercising at all times wisdom, in season and out of season and; in all respects ordering our lives and conduct in accordance with our high profession as Latter-day Saints. EMMELINE B. WELLS. EDITORIAL. STAR OF BETHLEHEM. Into the eastern heavens, there shines today the first faint glimmer of that star or comet which astronomers tell us shone over the cave in Bethlehem. It has shone once before when great destructions and devastations swept over the earth, in the year 1300 and today; men who study the heavens are questioning the portent of that glistening star which may be seen about ten o'clock on clear nights, at a point almost directly below the polar star. As the night wanes, it arises higher in the heavens, and in the early morning, between 2 and 4 o'clock, it reaches its greatest altitude above the horizon. Scholars are asked if this world-war be not the battle of Armageddon, referred to in the 16th chapter of the Book of Revelations. Astronomers have been forecasting for years the coming of this star. One prophesy which was made by a monk named Brother Johannes, in the year 1600, written in Latin, is translated into the French papers of the present day. Says Prof. Sothnos Latillier This is the predestined year in which the Star of Bethlehem r*appears in the heavens to herald the battle of Armageddon. Already in the evening skies the star, which is really a comet, is dimly discernible, and as the titanic conflict now raging reaches its climax it will be visible to all eyes. We know what events happened in the year when the Star of Bethlehem first appeared, and we know what has happened on every appearance of the star since then. Can we doubt that the mighty events of this year are connected with its return? Will any reasonable man question that this world-war is the battle of Armageddon foretold in the Bible, in the 16th chapter of the Book of Revelation? 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Truly, my beloved sisters, we are on the threshold of great events. The Star of Bethlehem shines over every cradle and threshold in this present year. As it was in the days of Noah, so it is in these days which are so near the coming of Christ. We are busy with the temporal things of the Kingdom we are giving gifts and making; merry, when our thoughts should rather dwell on the solemnities of the eternities which are understood only by the Latterday Saints. One year is a very short, or a very long time. It is one year ago since the General Board of the Relief Society prepared outlines of study, and one year ago since they decided to publish a monthly Bulletin which should contain these lessons and some other notes. Those who have received the Bulletin are the best judges as to the success or failure of this experiment. This is the month in which we celebrate the nativity of Christ, and although we are reasonably certain he was born in April, and not in December, still we join with the Christian world in making the 25th of December a memorial day to our worshipped Savior and Redeemer. When we go to lay our gifts on the altar of the future, as did the wise men in the cave of Bethlehem, we are minded to question ourselves as to the value and potency of those gifts. When I see a mother with a babe at her breast, to whom she has given the gift of a body, through her own body when; I see a father's loving arms around the shoulders of his growing sons; when I see a teacher forming character in the little students gathered about her desk, when I see a man cheerfully relinquishing a coveted prize that another may profit thereby; when I see our leaders giving of themselves without stint nor withholding in their labors of guidance and wise direction amongst people when I see the women of the Relief Society; trudging about the snowy streets with their gifts for the poor, and their words of encouragement for all, when I see men and women going down into the waters of baptism to bring their  kindred dead out from their prison houses, when I see all of these things, then I say, these noble men and women all have gifts of inestimable value to lay at the feet of the Babe of Bethlehem, and I ask myself, are any of these gifts mine to give? RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN S What have I done for the sick, the poor, the tempted, the tried, the widow and orphan, the weak and erring, or for the spirits in prison? Have I saved a soul, or have I fed and nourished a starving body, or administered to a hungry spirit? If I have, then these are my gifts of frankincense and myrrh. I know a good woman who has gathered over $-400 to distribute to the destitute Saints in the European missions through President Hyrum M. Smith. Many of the givers of these gifts were poor widows themselves, struggling and almost destitute, but they have gladly denied themselves, and have appealed to the tender impulses of their friends to use their Christmas money in thus relieving the wants of our own Saints in Europe, whose fathers and husbands have gone out to this dreadful war. This, indeed, is a work of love and charity. Such work and kindred labors will prepare a Christmas atmosphere that will envelope us all in a robe of love and peace. What are you giving this Christmas to the Master? December WOKK AI^D BUSINESS Lesson I. "Charity is the pure love of Christ and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it  shall.be well with them. "Book of Moroni, 7:47. December GENEALOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson IL Ten minutes talk on Current Events. How to Secure More Genealogical Data: "For the children of this world are in their generation  wiser than the children of light." Luke, 16:8. "The greatest responsibility in this world, that God has laid upon us, is to seek after our dead. "Joseph Smith. The people of the world have done vastly more in securing and preparing their genealogical data than the Latter-day Saints have done in utilizing that information and data in their temple work. The libraries and printing offices of the world are engaged frequently in storing and publishing the family 6 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN histories, and parish and church records, which antiquarians in Europe and America have prepared for this purpose. The Prophet Joseph Smith has told us that The greatest responsibility in this world, that God has laid upon us, is to seek after our dead." Write to all your relatives at home and abroad for information concerning theirs and your dead relatives. Ask them for names and dates, and all historical facts which they can remember or secure. If they do not answer promptly, write again, and if they still are dilatory, write again. Always enclose a stamped envelope for reply. This is an invariable rule in correspondence. Keep on writing for information. It might be said that one is to write for information as often as one is to forgive one's enemy, and that was seventy times seven. Write the Genealogical Society, Salt Lake City, Utah; state your facts and difficulties; ask for information. They may not be able to supply it, but you will certainly receive a courteous answer. Join the Genealogical Society of Utah. This will prove of much help spiritually for you in your work for the dead. Truth is truth, whether you believe the truth or not. The gospel is true whether you embrace it or not, but if you are converted to its truth, and go down into the waters of baptism, wonderful powers and gifts and blessings will follow your entrance into the Kingdom of God. In like manner, you may be converted to the necessity of working for your dead, or you may not be. That does not alter the truth or the principle of salvation for the dead, nor lessen the spiritual value of membership in the Genealogical Society of Utah. If you will take out a membership in that society a flood of genealogical light and inspiration and assistance will come to you on all sides, and from many hidden sources. Practically speaking, your membership in that society at $1 a year entitles you to free study in the library, while you secure the services of the trained genealogist at a reduction of 40 cents an hour. Your subscription to the Genealogical Magazine is, $1.50 a year, if you are not a member, and it is only $1 a year, if you are. Whatever you do or do not do, be sure to prepare the data already in your possession, in the manner indicated in these lessons. Group your families in proper form, giving all the data obtainable, record sources of information and relations-hip to the heir, number them properly and after having written all your data in your lead pencil note-book, then copy with ink in your record book for temple use. If all you who have followed these lessons will take the counsel given in this last lesson, we will promise you freely RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 7 that the good spirit will constantly lead your mind to those persons and places where you can secure further light and information concerning your dead. You may experience difficulties, you may find obstacles in your path, but if you will persist, the angels will assist you, your dead will pray for you, and finally, you will achieve such a labor as will crown your whole life here and hereafter with perfection and peace. DecemberHOME ETHICS AND GARDENING Lesson IIL Ten minutes talk on Current Events. Ethics The Christmas Spirit: Christmas Greeting to our Relief Society sisters. Loving thoughts, good will toward all. After reading of the birth, life, suffering and death of Christ, one cannot fail to appreciate more fully the causes for celebrating his birthday. His biography from the night the Star appeared in the heavens, when the Shepherds of Judea were tending their herds in the vicinity of Bethlehem, down to that period of time when he was betrayed and crucified, is one of the saddest, as also, the most interesting stories of which poet or historian ever gave us record. It touches the heart and awakens the deepest sympathy that frail mortal is capable of experiencing. Following him through vicissitudes or childhood, we have but the meagre accounts of his home life and associations, yet we have the rich influences of his association with the poor unfortunates, his never failing humility and charity, and one is lost in reflection. These, together with his humble parentage, the want, privation and frugal habits of his life present themselves and then we see later how he was besieged by enemies; and seeming friends, persecuted and scoffed at; yet, how patiently he bore the sneers, sarcasms, and unjust taunts of all. Grandly living by precept and example, he gloriously died on the Cross to save the sinners of the world meanwhile pleading; with his Father for their forgiveness, when he was suffering the most excruciating pain at their hands that a human being could be called upon to experience. And while the Romans would have set him free, and spared his life, and their governor, Pontius Pilate, would have honorably and justly exonerated him, yet his own people, the sons of Judea, cried out, Let his blood be upon us, he must surely die!" When we contemplate these facts, and compare his life! 8 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN with our own selfish, careless, and indifferent way of laboring and living, we cannot help wishing that we had better improved our time, and had shown ourselves more worthy; for Christ's life was a good, grand, noble, unselfish and maganimous one His character was without a blemish; not one single wrong act, deed, wish, or even thought, marred the purity of its whiteness. Therefore, let us never fail to commemorate and celebrate his birthday let us teach our children to honor and revere his; name, while we constantly cherish and make indelible the remembrance, of his mission here on earth. What an extensive and elaborate definition has this day of all other days, to the juvenile mind. It is the one great event of the year, and includes untold wonders and unexplained pleasures. The brightest dreams of childhood, the most innocent anticipations of babyhood concentrate upon the coming holiday. The Christmas trees and dear old Santa Claus' visit to the chimney corner, where hangs the varied-colored and many-sized stockings of the anxious little ones, show that these feelings are shared by babies all, whether the occupants dwell in palace or dreary hovel. Then comes the dainty, blushing maiden in her teens, along with the comely gallant near her own age, their thoughts are all in a flutter, for 'tis not toys and sweetmeats they are looking for, but their tastes turn to books, music, painting, poetry, etc., aside from the opera, theatre, and ball which they anticipate attending at Christmas time during vacation. Papa and mama have also their hopes, loves and fond expectations. Perhaps there is a neglected or long-forgotten life-dream to be again awakened, a chord in the heart once more to vibrate in that inner harmony. Christmas is ever an appropriate period to reunite the members of the home circle to; strengthen the weak, and to banish any little unpleasantness that may have disturbed our intercourse in the past. It will make us better men and women to extend charity and sympathy to one another. Even on this day, grandpa and grandma come in for their full share of consideration. They have their joyous thoughts of past happy periods, when their own genial, glowing fireside sheltered a host of bright-faced sons and daughters, and who now look with pleasure to the coming Merry Christmas, surrounded by generous, loving, healthy grandchildren who, to be sure, never forget to pray and send word to Santa Claus to fill to the brim their grandparents' stocking with pretty, also useful presents. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 9 HOME ETHICS. I. Christmas greetings to our Relief Society sisters. II. One should read, study and give sincere attention to the birth, life, and mission of our Savior. III. Follow him through all the different vicissitudes from birth until his crucifixion. IV. Ater doing this, one can more fully appreciate the greatness, beauty, and magnificence of Christ's character. V. Why we celebrate this day. VI. How the children, old and young, papas and mamas, and grandparents, join in its observance. HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN. "I am the true vine, and my Father is the Husbandman." John, 15:1. House Plants: Geraniums are the most popular and easiest grown of all house plants. They require less attention, a moderate heat, and but little moisture, compared with many other varieties. This is a very good time of year for starting new plants, taking slips from those which have been growing in summer gardens. For this, provide a shallow box of sand, and place in a dark closet or room, planting the slips in the box, keeping it rather cool and moist. They will soon show signs of germination, and be ready to transplant into pots. Then bring into the warm room and give sunlight. They will soon put forth blooms. Have good, thick mountain loam, or sandy soil, with good stable manure mixed thoroughly, before placing in pots or boxes for use. Always put a few small pebbles in the bottom of the pot, then put in the soil, thus assuring proper drainage. Mignonette Can be planted anew by planting fresh seeds: as you did in the spring, or by taking up the plants from the garden, with plenty of dirt around the roots, so they do not feel too much disturbed. Place the plants in a cool place for a few days. They will soon begin a new life, and continue to bloom, giving a dainty fragrance to the whole house. There are many who prefer the perfume of mignonette to the fragrance of any other house plant. Begonias: There are many varieties and kinds. All are beautiful, whether of the blossoming variety or the wonderfully 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ornamental begonias with their variegated leaves. Begonias are also easily propagated from slips. They, however, require a great deal of moisture and indirect sunlight they are like the; geranium in that they are almost perpetual bloomers, if they are of the flowery varieties. Fuschias: Once you get a good fuschia plant and give it the proper care, study its wants as to light and heat, spraying its leaves, etc., you can keep it easily for three or four years, or until it grows into a large tree-shaped plant. Fuschias like a south window in winter, plenty of moisture and a good tub bath once a week. Try the purple Storm King if you are fond of fuschias. Give it the treatment and care mentioned above, and you will be rewarded with a plant filled with blossoms the year round. Treat the slips from fuschias as you would geraniums, begonias and other plants. They will bring like results. Placing glass over the slips assists their growth and helps to retain the moisture in the sand. Bulbs: Try the following method of planting bulbs. It will be interesting to the children, as they can watch the development of the roots, and better understand how things mature: Take an ordinary drinking glass or old-fashioned spoon-holder or sugar bowl. Place in the glass a piece of cotton batting about three inches deep, then set in a hyacinth or tulip, crocus, or snow-drop bulb. Keep the glass filled with sufficient water to cover the cotton. Place in a cool, dark closet for ten days then bring it out, place in a north or east window; where there is but little heat or sun, as too much of either will cause too rapid a growth. In a few days the roots begin to push through the cotton, green leaves shoot up from the top, and soon it blossoms. Through the glass the children watch the growth of the plants. Let the mother talk to the children about plant life. Teach them how to plant and care for flowers. This will be both instructive and interesting to the whole family, more especially to the children. Christmas Trees: There is no other people in all the world that makes such extensive preparations for Christmas as do the German-speaking people. The poorest of the poor have the Christmas tree, with its glittering decorations. Its message of good will and friendly wishes for all mankind are better understood and more deeply felt by them than by any other people. The trees most extensively used are red pine, black balsam, red cedar and fir, the red and white pine being generally preferred for Christmas trees, on account of the symmetry and exquisite beauty of this tree. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 11 Holly: This is a plant used extensively in America for decorative purposes during the Christmas holiday seasons. There are several varieties of the shrub, and it is found mostly in temperate climates. The leaves are glossy, blossoms white, and the fruit mostly a bright scarlet. Holly bears cutting extensively and this makes it excellent for hedge fences. Its wood is white and hard, and it is useful in making knife handles and wood instruments. It grows very extensively in the United States and Africa. The state of Oregon produces a most beautiful variety, which is shipped by tons into our own western cities and states. It is made into wreaths and ornamental designs and sold at Christmas time on our market. Mistletoe: This is a parasitic plant growing on many varieties of plants, especially oak, poplar, ash, apple and other fruit trees. There are about 30 varieties. It grows in length from two to five feet. Its leaves are oblong, and are of a green yellowish tint. It is found extensively in the United States and Eurasia. The ancient Celtic peoples of Europe and the Druids regarded the mistletoe with much veneration. It was thought to be very effective in curing diseases, and in preventing sickness. There are still many old supersitions in Germany and Europe regarding the mistletoe, such as kissing under the mistletoe at Christmas, which is a proof that it is an emblem of love. In Europe it is used very extensively for decorative purposes during the Yuletide season. Potted Plants and Bulbs as Christmas Gifts: While the suggestion may be somewhat late for this year's gifts, especially if we are depending on giving gifts from our own slips and planting, they can be purchased cheaply at florists. We should begin e.arly in September and October to have bulbs and plants, named and marked for our friends whom we love and admire, for Christmas remembrance. A spirit of moderate and sensible giving and receiving may be encouraged in this way. Chinese lily bulbs planted in small pebbles in an earthen or china bowl makes an appropriate gift, and are not expensive, and are more lasting than cut flowers. Any kind of bulbs may be planted in the same way as the Chinese lilies. Of course, they require plenty of water and but little heat, especially at the first stages of germination. . ; 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN December LITERATURE Lesson X. (Thirty Minutes.) Ten minutes talk on Current Events. Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin: Subject Franklin as a Patriot and Statesman. : Sentiment: "He is a lucky fellow who is made prudent by other men's perils." 1. Franklin represents Pennsylvania in a General Convention at Albany. (Altemus, pp. 230-233 Crowell, pp. 188-191.) ; a. Proposes a plan of union for colonies. b. Conventions adopt plan which is later rejected by Colonial Assemblies. 2.Franklin assists Braddock in preparing for his expedition against the French and Indians. (Altemus, pp. 238-252 Crowell, pp. 195-210.) 3. Franklin takes charge of frontier, builds line of forts. (Altemus, pp. 254-260; Crowell, pp. 212-217.) 4. Franklin sent to England to insist upon the rights of the province to tax the proprietors of land, still held under the Pennsylvania Charter, for their share of expense in the Indian war. (Altemus, pp. 235-236; pp. 252-253; p. 264, Chap. '12; Crowell, pp. 193-194; pp. 210-211; pp. 221-222; pp. 228 to end.) See introductions to Altemus and Crowell. Explanatory: Pennsylvania was founded by Wm. Penn. King Charles of England owed Penn's father 16,000 pounds on a debt, and settled this account by a grant of wild land in America (40,000 square miles), afterwards known as Pennsylvania. The proprietorship of Pennsylvania was hereditary in the Penn family. There were other proprietors of land in America, and they all objected to paying taxes on their vast estates for the defense of the colonies. Franklin was completely successful in his mission. (See introductions.) 5. Positions of trust held by Benjamin Franklin. 1. Member of City Council. 2. Alderman. 3. Justice of Peace. 4. Clerk of Assembly. 5. Member of Assembly (elected to this position every year for ten years) 6. Delegate to Convention at Albany. 7. Postmaster General of America. 8. Agent to carry petition to King of England, insisting on the rights of the province to tax the proprietary estates to help defray expense of de: : . RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 13 fence against Indians. Acts as agent for Massachusetts, Maryland and Georgia. 9. Sent on second mission to England by colonies to protest against taxation without representation. 10. Delegate to second Continental Congress. 11. Member of committee appointed to draw up Declaration of Independence. 12. Special envoy to France to negotiate a treaty of alliance. Franklin signed treaty of peace between America and England. 13. Minister to France for nine years. 14. Elected President of the State of Pennsylvania. Twice unanimously re-elected to this office. 15. Delegate for Pennsylvania to the convention which framed the Constitution of the United States. (See any American History, and introductions to Altemus and Crowell.) 6. Description of Franklin's reception in France, when he went to form a French alliance. On his first arrival in Paris, he is thus described "Doctor Franklin, who lately arrived. .is very much run. of him. after, and feted. .by all people who can get hold. . this Quaker wears the full costume of his sect. He has an agreeable physiognomy, spectacles always on his eyes, but little hair, a fur cap is always on his head. He wears no powder, .linen very white, a brown coat make his dress.", One of the most famous French women of that time thus describes his 'reception, after he became our full minister to France "Elegant fetes were given to Dr. Franklin, who united the renown of one of the most skilful naturalists, with the patriotic Apostle virtues which had made him embrace the noble role of the most of Liberty. I was present at one of these fetes, where beautiful of three hundred women was designated to go and philosopher's white locks a crown of laurel, and place on the to give the old man two kisses on his cheeks." QUESTIONS. 1. What was the object of the Congress at Albany? 2. Why were the Assemblies opposed to Franklin's plan of union? 3. Why was England opposed to the plan? 4. If this plan had been universally adopted, what might have been the result? (Altemus, 5. Read and discuss the paragraph on work. p. 258; Crowell, pp. 215-216.) 14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 6. What was Franklin's scheme to get the soldiers to prayers. (Altemus, pp. 2'59-260; Crowell, p. 217.) 7. Franklin is known as one of the notable figures of the world. Why? 8. Mention his chief characteristics. 9. Prove that he was highly intellectual; that he was industrious; that he was shrewd; that he was practical; that he was versatile beyond almost any other man. 10. Enumerate the public benefactions of Franklin. (See Lessons VIII and IX.) 11. What can you say of Franklin's style? 12. In looking back over Franklin's life, which act of his, or which quality of his, do you admire most? ART AND ARCHITECTURE. Our Own John Hafen. "And all mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them." Words of Christ. Native Country. Conversion to Mormonism. Acceptance of the Word of Wisdom in youth. Trials of poverty and hunger. Ideal of himself and wife. Devotion to his "calling." Sudden death on the threshold of success and recognition. Reference: Young Woman's Journal, February, 1910. John Haf ftn, by Alice Herrill Home also Devotees and Their; Shrines, 41-49. Not all individuals meet fame quickly, but Time will immortalize the truly great, eventually. The constructive type (such as Hafen) will be remembered. The scale of greatness depends upon the measure of soul-sympathy. When you study Hafen 's art for sympathy you learn where to place him. "Home in Springville" and "Corn Fields," pages 41-45, offer two paintings in which even the layman may discover the  quality of sympathy artists call it feeling. Here everything is built around the thought of home, and the feeling of home permeates the whole scheme. The home essence that Hafen idealized is lofty, dignified, simple, humble. Now these beautiful pictures did not just happen, but they sprung from Hafen's heart, experience, thought, study, and they have feeling because they reflect the inner life of a great soul. They could not have feeling if they were photographs from even a beautiful scene. Open your books, compare these pictures with a photograph until you discover for yourself the difference between art and commercial pictures. Feeling is the greatest quality a picture can have. It can not be made, but it comes without effort from the gifted. There are other Utah artists who paint RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 15 paint for us with feeling, but our dear Hafen can never again, so it is well for us now to understand what he has done. I hope his lessons are not in vain, nor his heroism and fidelity forgotten by us. We are glad Hafen has sons. Speed them on blest, for theirs their toilsome pathway of art. They are doubly also is the gift of a sympathetic mother. The State Fair shows by one of Hafen sons but if he would achieve, he, canvases 's too, must begin humbly and keep his humility. Tell of John Hafen 's life. ' (a) (b) Describe his qualities of heart. (c) What can you say of his devotion to art? (d) What influence did Brigham Young exert on him? (e) How did Hafen find his gift? (f ) Have you found yours? (g) Why was he true to his gift? (h) Why are you seeking to be loyal to yourself and what God hath given you? (i) If you are not making the most of you not? (j) What could you do to better realize yourself? (k) What could you do for another to foster his or ' her talents? (1) Name some of the talented people in your neighbor m) What is a talent or gift, and whence (Foot note As this is John Hafen 's day. : endeavor to have as many pictures by that artist as you can hang the Relief m Society hall during the lesson.) NOTE ON GENEALOGICAL LESSON. The blanks provided by the temple are intended to be used only by persons coming to the temple to perform ordinances. They should not be used as practice sheets in genealogical class work. The notebooks, that can be obtained at the office of the Genealogical Society, 60 E. So. Temple St., furnish sufficient opportunity for the practice that may be needed to become familiar with preparation of forms for temple work. Yours very truly. RECORDER. 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. THOMAS HULL ELIJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH SCRACE'S BAKERY and CAFE Fresh Bread, Cakes and Pastry Daily Headquarters for Relief Society Visitors. A GOOD PLACE TO EAT. E. L. SAUNDERS, Prop. Phone Wasatch 12.30. 24 So. MAIN STREET THE I UTAH STATE It is the our NATIONAL pose of this BANK SALT LAKE CITY Bank at all UTAH times to render helpful service, and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. Utah State National Bank Your Account Is Cordially Invited JOS. F. SMITH, Pres. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Deliver Phones: Wasatch 32233224 When you buy a Diamond of McCONAHAY you don't spend the money you save it. 64 MAIN ST., Salt Lake City. $22 and up W. N. "Williams. Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Sup Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges. Heaters, Qo=Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Address JULINA L. SMITH. Phone Wasatch 207. 67 South Temple Street Salt Lake City Utah A Grafonola for the Ward $25 Upward $10 Cash $5 a Mo. Play over in your Ward House records of the singing of the famous TABERNACLE CHOIK Also any records you want for any occasion  dance  popular sacred, etc. Older than the State of Utah Write for Catalogue and FREE calendar. "Jensen's" r/;e Every Meal Butter Two Kinds One Quality. "Four-in-One" "Blanchard" Four separately wrapped cubes. One standard size print Made from the heart of the mountain states' finest cream. Pasteurized. Better butter is impossible At triple the price, we couldn't make it better. Your grocer will supply you. JENSEN CREAMERY CO. We are prepared to supply you with all books recommended for J^ELIEF SOCIETY CLASSES ALSO ALL RELIEF SOCIETY BLANKS, BLANK BOOKS and RECORDS DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE LEADING BOOK CONCERN No. 6 MAIN STREET ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. C. M. I. School Shoes They keep the Children's feet warm and dry. Our RANCHO SHOES Will stand the ammonia of the barn yard. ''MOUNTAIN" and "THE LEADER" Overalls don't rip. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake City, Utah Marion Banks FINE Charlton's Millinery CLOAK & SUIT CO. Up=to=Date Styles AT REASONABLE PRICES for Ladies and GOODWIN CORSETS Misses. This ad. will redeem 10 per cent on purchase at regular price Moved to 242 South Main Street LIFE INSURANCE and the RELIEF SOCIETY Two Great Institutions working in the same great cause the service and comfort of humanity. Life Insurance provides against poverty and want and distress. If more of our people provided life insurance for their families the burden of the Relief Society workers would be made lighter. JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N.STOHL 1st. Vice President. 2ad. Vice Pres. & Mgr The Beneficial Has Insurance of over $11,000,000 JOEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building C.W. NIBLEY Richard Young Member Ex. Com. Salt Lake City, Utah Counsel Beneficial Agents everywhere will gladly explain how insurance ** Western Insurance helps you to save, at the same for Western People" time it is protecting your family.
