[Vol57 | October 1970 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: 721 October Comforts Me Warm, Kathryn Kay]
OCTOBER  COMFORTS  ME  WARM 
October  whirls 
within  my  breast 
like  scarlet  leaves  in  roiling  wind  .  .  . 
October  stirs  my  throbbing  pulse 
now  that  summer's  maize  is  storage-binned, 
garnered  from  rows  of  April  green, 
now  harvest-thinned  .  .  . 
\? 
Kernels  bulging  with  promised  strength 
against  a  frost-filled  hunger-need, 
holding  the  secret  of  new  life 
within  each  sleeping  seed  .  .  . 
Now  against  the  darkness, 
foreboding  sky, 
and  impending  winter-harm 
crimson  October  swirls  in  my  heart 
with  fire-gold  to  comfort  me  warm. 
—Kathryn  Kay 
The  Cover: 
Frontispiece: 
Art  Layout: 
Illustrations: 
Mount  Hood,  Oregon,  Wearing  a  Cap  of  Snow 
Transparency  by  Dorothy  J.  Roberts 
Lithographed  in  Full  Color  by  Deseret  News  Press 
Autumn  Morning 
Photograph  by  Harry  Harpster,  Jr. 
Dick  Scopes 
Mary  Scopes 
721

f/mi/{ 
Very  Dear  Sisters  Everywhere:  May  I  tell  you,  please,  of  my  deep  gratitude  for  the 
honor  and  privilege  of  illustrating  your  beautiful  stories  these  past  years?  I  shall  trea- 
sure always  the  happiness  and  inspiration  you  have  given  me  so  generously.  Thank 
you,  thank  you,  for  your  many  kindnesses.  What  fine,  wonderful  people  you  are!  I'll 
think  of  you  often— and  miss  you  all!  Mary  Scopes,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
We  of  the  Tempe  Stake  wish  to  express  our  thanks  and  appreciation  to  all  of  you  for 
the  Relief  Society  Magazine.  We  love  and  sustain  our  Prophet  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
and  know  the  adult  magazine  will  bring  great  blessings  as  the  Relief  Society  Magazine 
has  in  the  past.  Barbara  Ellingson,  Tempe  Stake  Relief  Society  President, 
Tempe,  Arizona 
Church  Magazine  Conversion  Rules 
The  following  are  rules  the  Church  Magazine  Office  is  using  to  apply  The  Era, 
Instructor,  and  Relief  Society  credits  toward  the  Adult  Magazine. 
The  subscriber's  name  and  address  as  it  appears  on  The  Era  file  will  be  used 
for  the  Adult  Magazine.  The  Era  file  is  being  used  as  the  base  for  the  Adult  file. 
The  months  remaining  on  an  Instructor  subscription  and  a  Relief  Society  Magazine 
subscription  will  be  added  to  The  Era  subscription. 
The  number  of  Adult  Magazines  a  subscriber  receives  will  be  determined  by 
the  number  of  Eras  being  received.  If  a  person  is  not  receiving  an  Era,  the  number 
of  Adult  Magazines  he  receives  will  be  determined  by  the  number  of  Instructors 
being  received.  If  a  person  is  not  receiving  The  Era  or  Instructor,  the  number  of 
Adult  Magazines  he  receives  will  be  determined  by  the  number  of  Relief  Society 
Magazines  being  received.  In  the  case  of  institutional  subscribers  such  as  seminaries, 
institutes,  and  ward  libraries,  the  number  of  Adult  Magazines  they  will  receive 
will  be  determined  by  the  largest  number  they  are  receiving  of  either  The  Era  or 
The  Instructor. 
Samples  of  typical  situations  encountered  in  the  combining  of  Era  and  Relief 
Society  subscriptions  are  printed  on  the  following  pages.  The  rule  being  followed 
in  each  case  is  stipulated.  While  it  is  realized  on  occasion  these  may  not  be  the 
actions  subscribers  desire,  rules  have  to  be  adopted  that  would  seem  to  apply  in  most 
cases.  Where  a  particular  example  fits  your  situation  and  the  action  taken  isn't  what 
is  desired,  write  and  tell  the  Church  Magazine  Office  at  79  South  State  Street,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah  84111,  and  they  will  attempt  to  follow  your  wishes. 
1.  If  the  complete  name  and  address  are  exactly  the  same  on  the  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine and  Era  list,  the  remaining  months  of  the  Relief  Society  Magazine  beyond 
December  will  be  added  to  The  Era. 
SAMPLE 
Era  Subscription  List  Relief  Society  Magazine  Subscription  List 
84302HUME-216E017  0CT71 
OLIVE  A  HUME 
216  E  3RD  S 
BRIGHAM  CITY  UT  84302 
722 
MRS.  OLIVE  A  HUME 
216  E  3RD  S 
BRIGHAM  CITY  UTAH  84302  JAN72 
BRIG  C-B  C  17 
(Continued  on  p.  744)

The 
Magazine     Volume  57     October  1970    Number  10 
Editor  Marianne  C.  Sharp    Associate  Editor  Vesta  P.  Crawford 
Business  Manager  Belle  S.  Spafford 
Special  Features 
722    Church  Magazine  Conversion  Rules 
724    Be  a  Professional  Homemaker,  My  Daughter     Lillian  Y.  Bradshaw 
732    Relief  Society  Song  Contest 
Fiction 
734    Elberta  Goes  Visiting    Hazel  K.  Todd 
746    Snow  Cream     Lena  Mae  Hansen 
759    The  Secret  of  Blueberry  Hill— Chapter  4    Rosa  Lee  Lloyd 
General  Features 
722  From  Near  and  Far 
740  Notice  to  Magazine  Subscribers 
741  Woman's  Sphere    Ramona  W.  Cannon 
742  Editorial— In  Appreciation  Louise  W.  Madsen 
773  Notes  From  the  Field— Relief  Society  Activities 
800  Birthday  Congratulations 
The  Home— Inside  and  Out 
750    Cooking  With  Peanut  Butter    Julia  Read  Clark 
752  Small  Quilts  That  Qualify    Edythe  K.  Watson 
754  A  Walk  in  the  Woods    Lillian  L.  Woolley 
755  Hobby  Features— Lettie  Stoker  and  Gladys  K.  Richins 
756  Meatless  Casseroles— Part  II     Edythe  K.  Watson 
758  Call  It  Not  Common     Verda  F.  Welch 
758    A  Lesson  Learned     Cora  H.  Arnold 
Lesson  Department 
781  Spiritual  Living— The  Creation 
787  Visiting  Teacher  Message— Appreciation  of  Excellence 
789  Homemaking— Exercise,  Posture,  and  Grooming 
790  Social  Relations— Women  Are  People  Too 
795    Cultural  Refinement— Sisterhood  in  a  Worldwide  Church