[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 758 | General Feature | Call It Not Common Verda | F. Welch]
[Call It Not Common Verda F. Welch]

Verda F. Welch I have seen the tamarisk bush in a field, unimpressive and unneeded, uprooted because it grew in the way of the plow. I have seen it cut into stove lengths to give quick heat to cook a meal and bake loaves of fragrant bread. In the summer I have seen it show its gratitude for deep draughts of water by bursting forth into a mass of beautiful, feathery pinkness. Even between blossomings, its dainty branches may be used as a filler for bouquets, its soft gray-green harmonizing with any color decor. It could be called a poor man's fern. On a crisp morning, especially after a fog-enshrouded night, I have seen the tamarisk adorned in king winter's richest mantle of silver and crystal, its boughs needled to catch and hold the frost, slender and supple to arch gracefully with the treasured weight. This beauty is mine outside my window. A Cora Hill Arnold "Mama, please lie by me a little while." He was three and ready for his afternoon nap. I decided the housework could wait a few minutes more. He snuggled up to me at first and then rolled a little away to get more comfortable. I reached over and took his soft, little hand in mine, and as I thought of how much I loved him, I held it more tightly. He immediately tugged to ge his hand loose. The tighter I held it, the harder he pulled. So I opened my hanc and he snatched his away. I left mine open close to him and soon I felt him carefully place his in mine again. This time I closed my hand very gently, so he could remove his any time he so desired. But he left it there until by his quiet breathing I knew he had fallen asleep. This day I have learned a lesson, I said to myself. I must not hold too tightly as my children grow towards adulthood. If I do, they will always be trying to get away and I will lose them. But if I hold just enough so they know I love them and am always there to listen when they need to talk, if I just let them know I trust them when they do leave—then it may be they will always return. Oy ae CH HOPE Snow, deep snow everywhere, But high on a limb, a robin's there.

ng." Lila's heart beat up into her throat. Norman could be hurt somewhere and they wouldn't even hear about it. Telephone wires were down, electricity was off. Radio and television were dead. "We mustn't think his plane is down, Steven. Don't say that!" Her voice was brittle. "Facts are facts, Lila. You have to learn to face reality. We hope he didn't crash, but we won't know for awhile." Lila tugged at Steven's arm. "But I can't bear it, Steven. What will this world be for me without Norman? He has always been here when I needed him. Now he might be alone and hurt— even dying. Find him for me, Steven." 762 She stood pale and trembling before them. They looked at her in amazement, but they did not speak. "I have to know what's happened to Norman," she repeated. "Find out for me, Johnny. Someone uptown will know if his plane crashed. Oh, Elizabeth—" Her hands went out toward her sister. "Why didn't I know what he means to me? Why! Why didn't I know?" E lizabeth put her arms around her and let her cry against her shoulder. "I don't know the answer, Baby," she crooned. "Sometimes we look for happiness in faraway places when it's right in our own backyard. But the tornado was quite low. I watched it from the car window. It seemed to skim the ground. So let's hope his plane got above it. It would have been destroyed if they hadn't taken off. In the meantime we have to remember something Aunt Lucinda told us a long time ago. No matter what happens you have to go on. So be a good girl. Go back downstairs and fix us something to eat. We'll be back after we search the neighborhood." At that moment Johnny called from the front yard. "My car! My car is gone!" They hurried out to him. There was no trace of Johnny's new car. "Sucked up in the funnel," Steven said. "I hope you have insurance, Johnny." "Of course I do. But I want that car. It was the best car I ever had. I'll find it piece by piece and have it put together." " "Oh, Johnny," Lila called out. "Look over there where the Wilkins' lived. Their whole house is gone! Where are those dear people? They didn't have a cellar. Their house was only a shell!" They ran across the yard to the Wilkins' place. The sunflowers were whipped to the ground, and lay like naked stalks. "IT saw Casey on his bicycle after the funeral," Johnny said. "Little Pearl and Mrs. Wilkins got in the Bryson's car," Elizabeth added. "Let's hope they took the upper road—maybe stayed with friends." "They got home," Steven said. He had gone ahead and was stooping over the silent forms of Little Pearl clasped in her mother's arms. A heavy beam had struck them, killing them both. "The car that brought them home must have got away," Elizabeth whispered. "Casey—" Lila breathed. "Where is Casey? He _ hasn't anyone but a distant relative— Australia, I think. What can we do?" "We can take him in," Steven said. "We can be his family." "Oh, let's do that," Lila said. "He will need courage." "Look—over there!" Johnny pointed toward the McIntyre front yard. "That old oak tree is our symbol of courage. Its leaves are gone, its branches are twisted and broken, but its roots are still down deep and solid." Steven nodded. "It's ready to send up whatever it needs to make branches and leaves grow again." A gleam of memory sparked Lila's heart. "Casey told me only a day ago that the oak tree made The Secret of Blueberry Hill him think of Aunt Lucinda and what she stood for. Something to cling to." SL Steven's eyes gentled as he looked down the highway.