[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 734 | Fiction | Elberta Goes Visiting | Hazel K. Todd]
Elberta Goes Visiting "Rooster Brewster!" Jimmy yelled back at the house, and I picked up a big clod and lammed it at Horace. It hit him square in the jaws just as the door opened and Lorenzo came out. We didn't wait to hear what he had to say. We ran for home. Hot and panting, we burst into the house. "He wouldn't let us 'pologize!" Jimmy screamed. "He slammed the door at us!" Mother caught Jimmy and put her good arm around him. "Just a minute. Don't get so excited." Elberta looked us over. "Didn't the pie even get to him?" she asked. "Horace gobbled up the pie!" Jimmy yelled. Her face sort of worked. "Well," she said dryly, "I hope he enjoyed it. I've never made pie for a dog before." She thought a minute, and then her face brightened. "But if at first you don't succeed, try, try again!" So in a day or two she cooked up a big batch of beautiful cream puffs and announced that she was going to do a little visiting herself. '""Lorenzo Brewster's forgotten his grandfather pushed a handcart across the plains for the Church's sake. I'm going to remind him about the strength and stamina of his forebears," she said. "He's acting like a silly nincompoop just because a better man took his girlfriend. Doesn't he know that all's fair in love and war?" I She was stuffing cream puffs into a basket as if she meant business. She stopped a minute, eyeing me up and down because I was standing there with my mouth watering. She handed me a cream puff. "Where's Jimmy?" 

737 October 1970

 she asked, and started picking up another one. "He's already got one," I said, motioning to the crabapple tree through the open door. She put it back with a brief glance toward the tree where Jimmy sat perched on a limb enjoying his stolen goodie. "Seems to me," Elberta muttered, '"'a slick worker like Jimmy should have been able to bribe Mr. Brewster with a pie." She started down the lane with her basket, walking with firm steps as if she was going to make an important speech at a convention. Dad smiled and stroked his chin. "I'd give a nickel to watch what goes on," he said, "but I guess we'll find out soon enough." But we never did find out for sure. It was two hours before Elberta came tripping down the lane like the world was made of honeysuckles and apple pie. We were all waiting in the living room. She just flitted in as though she was sweet sixteen, only she was old as Mother, I guess, and smiled at each of us. Dad cleared his throat and said kind of casually, "Everything go all nght?" Elberta looked a little surprised. "Why, of course," she said. "Why shouldn't it?" And then she added, "Lorenzo Brewster is a right nice man. He just needs somebody to take a personal interest in him." _ Dad and mother were exchanging pleased looks. Dad winked at Jimmy all ready to say something. "All that's been wrong with me, I just don't know how to make cream puffs,". He said. "Oh, go on with you!' Elberta 738 said. "Don't you know the way to a man's heart is through his stomach?" "But I." Mother began. But Elberta stopped her. "You didn't let him taste a sample of what was in store for him if he came to dinner." She paused and smiled to herself. "Lorenzo surely does relish cream puffs." And then she added, "He's coming to dinner Saturday. I thought you wouldn't mind since you've been trying for so long." Mother went over and put her good arm around Elberta and told her how glad she was. And Dad said, "Elberta, I wish you were permanent in the ward so you could show me how to make friends with Lorenzo." "Maybe I'll just move into the ward," Elberta laughed. Everybody seemed happy. Dad picked up Janie and threw her into the air and caught her and made her laugh. Elberta gave me and Jimmy each another cream puff from the plateful she had saved for dinner. We went out and sat in the tree and tried to think what it would be like to have Mr. Brewster eating dinner at our house. "We will have to quit teasing old Horace for sure, won't we?" Jimmy asked. "I guess so," I said. "We had better go fill that dog-trap hole up good and pile rocks on it so Horace won't fall in or dig it out again." So Lorenzo came over, and everybody was nice and polite. He held Mother's and Elberta's chairs when we went to sit down to the table, and patted Janie's curls so she smiled at him and showed her dimples. He was sitting next to Jimmy and asked if Jimmy would like to catch a few balls after dinner. I couldn't believe it, but after dinner while Elberta was washing the dishes with Mother helping as well as she could with one arm, Dad and Lorenzo and Jimmy and I went out in the back and played work-ups. Lorenzo could really bat the ball. He knocked it clean over the back fence and had to lift Jimmy over it to get the ball. Dad told us that Lorenzo used to be the star pitcher in high school. Lorenzo grinned at Dad and said, "I'd nearly forgotten that, George, it's been so long ago." The next thing we knew Dad had invited him to go to sacrament meeting with us tomorrow. Lorenzo said, well, he guessed it was time he began to live up to the example of his handcart pushing ancestors, and he had wanted to for a long time, but he just hated to break the ice. When he went to go home, he told me and Jimmy there was some fresh wet sand in the gulch, and if we wanted to, we could come and play in it. Elberta Goes Visiting "Golly, goody, Mr. Brewster!" Jimmy said with big eyes. And I patted old Horace on the head and gave him a jelly tart. He slurped it down and wagged his stumpy tail. After that Lorenzo went to Church all the time, and we visited back and forth. Jimmy and I built a big long town in the sand gulch, and Lorenzo came and looked it over and said it was real nice. Old Horace slept under the currant bushes and the crabapple tree, and we didn't pay any attention to him. It looked like Lorenzo and Elberta were getting awful friendly. So Jimmy and I hid in the crabapple tree and watched them sitting in the patio swing holding hands. The first thing you know, they were going to get married. Mother's arm _ was ready to have the cast off, so we wouldn't need Elberta any longer. Mother said it was worth having a broken arm in order to get Elberta to help Dad with Mr. Brewster. Jimmy whispered to me that it looked like Elberta was helping herself as much as she was helping Dad. Oe HAPPY EVER AFTER We were spring and youth and laughter, hand seeking hand and arms entwined. Looking toward that ever-after realm of each young lover's mind.