[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 781 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— | The Creation]
[Spiritual Living— The Creation]

the physical creation all things became a living soul. The uniting of the spirit and the body make a soul. (D&C 88:15.) So it was with man, plant, and animal. The Lord said to Moses: And I, the Lord God, formed man from the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul... And out of the ground made I, the Lord God, to grow every tree, naturally,... And it became also a living soul. For it was spiritual in the day that I created it; for it remaineth in the sphere in which I, God, created it, yea, even all things which I prepared for the use of man And out of the ground I, the Lord God, formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air... And they were also living souls.... (Moses 3:7, 9, 19.) Temporal creation means that the individual may pass away, being temporary or mortal. The Lord refers to the earth as having 7,000 years of temporal existence from the fall of Adam. (D&C 77:6.) 

785 October 1970

 AFTER THEIR KIND The Lord established in the beginning that each plant and animal should procreate after its own kind. Unto Moses and Abraham the Lord set forth this law at least twenty times in the account of the creation. Representative of this fact is the following: And the Gods prepared the earth to bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind; and it was so, as they had said. (Abr. 4:24.) SUMMARY The Pearl of Great Price provides an ancient testimony for the benefit of a modern generation. This testimony is a verification of the biblical account of the creation of the earth and living creatures, and it clarifies and brings into focus pertinent information obscure in the biblical record. The modern books of Scripture do not reveal the how of creation, but this knowledge is promised to men in a day of righteousness ushered in by the second coming of Christ. (D&C 101:32-34.) Theories and notions regarding creation are to be accepted only as_ tentative propositions, not fact. The motion and regularity of the stars and the wonder of created things upon the earth bespeak the glory and marvelous workings of God. God's multitudinous creations observed by man through scientific means represent only a fraction of what exists in the heavens. By Urim and Thummim, Abraham saw some of these creations. (Abr. 3:2-4.) 786 Orderliness or freedom from confusion describes the operations of God's work for man in providing him with an earth environment. The courses of the stars are fixed, and they move in their times and seasons by law instituted by their Creator. A modern revelation explains that through the "light of Christ"—that spirit which proceeds from the presence of God throughout all space— these heavenly orbs are governed and sustained. (D&C 88:11-13.) IMPLEMENTATION The Lord says that his house is a house of order and not one of confusion. (D&C 132:8.) Latterday Saints know that obedience to law brings successful living. The mother who teaches her children to be neat and tidy and to keep the house in order, as is their responsibility, must also develop the quality of orderliness herself. Orderliness in one's life becomes a matter of discipline. The counsel to put one's house in order has_ been expressed many times by the leadership of the Church. This advice from President George Albert Smith pertains to all families in the Church: "I pray that you may have wisdom to set your own homes in order today, not delaying." (Conference Report, April 1937, p. 36.) Class Discussion Relate the foregoing statements to a mother's responsibility as to: (1) the physical aspects of the home; (2) the spiritual aspects of the home. To be wise is to place one's life in harmony with law. The laws of the gospel of Jesus Christ require continual attention to changing habits out of harmony with those laws, and the acqulring of worthwhile practices that bring greater efficiency and wholesome living. The Nephite prophet Benjamin taught that if parents upheld the laws of God, they would teach their children the ways of truth and soberness, to love one another, and to serve one another. (Mosiah 4:15.) The key to success in living the laws of God is to place one's life in order and then to implant this same quality in the lives of those who are entrusted into one's care. These words from President Lesson Department John Taylor make the application this lesson teaches: We talk of becoming like God. What does he do? He governs this and other worlds, regulates all the systems and gives them their motions and revolutions; he preserves them in their various orbits, and governs them by unerring, unchangeable laws, as they traverse the immensity of space.... He takes care of and provides for, not only the hundreds of millions of the human family, but the myriads of beasts, fowls and fishes. We would be like him!... We are far behind, but we have time for improvement; and I think we shall have to make some important changes for the better in our proceedings, before we become like our Father who dwells in the heavens. (JD, 10:260.)