[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 746 | Fiction | Snow Cream Lena | Mae Hansen]
[Snow Cream Lena Mae Hansen]

"It just rains," I mumbled to myself as I started to pack my clothes. "What can a person do with rain in the winter? Who ever heard of rain cream, or a rain man, or riding a sled down a rainy hill?" I thought about the rain all the while I finished packing, and I thought about it all the time we were traveling. "Mama," I said finally, "won't it ever snow where we're going?" "Not likely," she answered. Snow Cream Mama said that it had snowed once or twice where we were going, but that it was very unusual, and I made up my mind, then and there, that this Christmas would have to be an unusual time. "Mama," I said, "do you think it is silly for me to want something to eat more than I want a doll?" I asked. "Not at all," Mama answered. "What is important to one isn't to another. If this is important to you, then it isn't silly." The next day was chilly and clear, but being Christmas eve it was full of excitement, and I forgot, temporarily, my anxiety for the soft white flakes. We had electricity in our new home, and Mama had purchased two strings of little lights to put on the tree. The front room smelled piney and good, and we sat in front of the cozy fireplace listening to Mama tell the story of Jesus' birth. The tree bulbs were the only light in the room, and they glowed warmly in the semi-darkness as_ she talked. " And because we are so happy that Jesus was _ born," Mama was saying, "we celebrate his birthday each December 25th. Jesus came to earth because he loves us, and it is through love that we honor his birth by giving gifts to each other and we must learn to accept the fact that we can't have everything we want, and remember that love and giving are the really important things in life." Even though she was telling the story to all of us, I felt that Mama was trying to tell me something extra, but I didn't 

747 October 1970

 know exactly what. The next morning we awoke early, and we fairly tripped over ourselves as we bubbled with excitement into the front room. I didn't go to the tree, but hurried to the window. I could hardly wait to see if the snow had come. As I stood looking out at the bare ground, a feeling of disappointment touched my heart and caused me to hurt all over inside. I must learn that I can't have everything I want, I scolded myself silently to keep from crying. Then, turning around, I ran to the tree, picked up the beautiful grownup doll, and held her tightly to me hoping that no one had seen the big tear that fell in her almost real hair. Suddenly, through the blur in my eyes, I saw the round. Wooden bucket half hidden under a tree branch. Mama came over and put her arm around my waist. "This is an ice cream freezer," she said, and she told us how it worked. While Mama made the ice cream custard, the rest of us helped Papa crack the block of ice he had purchased from the ice man. We took turns turning the crank connected to the top of the freezer. Round and round and round went the tall slim can sitting between the ice and the wooden bucket. At first the handle was easy to turn, then slowly it became harder and, finally, it wouldn't turn at all. The ice cream was ready. Papa removed the crank, and Mama lifted the can out and took off the lid. Everyone crowded around and looked down in. "Oh, Mama," I breathed, not daring to hope, "is it as good as snow cream?" "Taste it and see." Mama's eyes twinkled. The white mixture was creamy and smooth, and I held a delicious spoonful in my mouth for a long moment before I swallowed. "It's even better." I hugged her again and again. Then, reaching up, I pulled her gently down so that her ear was very close to my mouth. "Put my share in the yellow bowl," I whispered softly. Mama smiled, and in her smile I saw that what was important to me was important to her. And as she handed me the bowl, I smiled back. This was the best Christmas ever.