DANGEROUS EXCESSES.
			   
   Revolutions are ever attended by excesses.
No matter how wisely designed, or how well
conducted, there are always found associated
with them people of ill-balanced minds and in-
temperate judgments who run riot in extremes.
There is a social revolution now in progress in
the United States. While it affects all classes,
colors, and creeds, and both sexes, its progress
promises to be directly fraught with grave re-
sults to women. The mere recognition of a de-
fined and extended political status would be
comparatively unimportant, when weighed
with the sweeping changes in the very struc-
ture of society which some advocates of wo-
man’s rights contemplate and defend. Time
was when the retiring grace of modesty, with
which maidens and matrons were adorned, was
considered their greatest charm, when home-
life and domestic affections were considered
holy and sacred things, and when a union of
hearts and hands was held as enduring as exist-
ence. True, there were exceptions as there are
to all general rules, and many of them ; but
this was the prevailing sentiment. Now, to
the demand for a wider recognition of the claims
which are justly preferred for women, are added
others which aim at securing full license to
gratify every passion or wild desire by which
ungoverned minds may be swayed. With the
right to vote, and the right to earn honest mo-
ney by honest industry in pursuits from which
women have been debarred, is claimed the
privilege to set natural laws and sound social
regulations at defiance. It is demanded that
the sacred bonds of marriage shall be disre-
garded whenever fleeting fancy desires change;
that the holy feelings which unite parents and
children shall be discountenanced ; and that
the offspring of a relationship unhallowed by
any stronger matrimonial tie than mutual de-
sire shall become the property of the State, thus
seeking to destroy the family circle, filial love,
parental care, and fraternal affection.
  These are some of the dangerous excesses into
which certain advocates of woman's rights have
already run. That they will encourage immo-
rality, increase vice and work serious evil to a
limited extent, is beyond question; but that
they will ever find an abiding place, or an en-
dorsement, in the sober thoughts and calm re-
flections of the women of America, we  do not
for a moment imagine. Still, as children should
be taught carefulness in handling dangerous
weapons, or instructed on the fatal effects of
deadly poisons, so parents should earnestly
warn the young against specious doctrines
which, under the sacred name of liberty, claim
license of the most revolting and unrestrained
character ; and, if universally adopted, would
make society a chaos and a scene of unbridled
passions, from which every pure intelligence
would shrink with loathing unutterable.


﻿THE following is Aunt Betsey’s descrip-
tion of her milkman : “He is the meanest
man in the world !  He skims his milk on
the top, and then he turns it over and skims
it on the bottom.”


