HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	One special care of every housekeeper
should be to know that the current expenses
of her household do not exceed the general
income. By keeping a regular account of
every article purchased, this object is not
only attained, but the value of things may
be learned, and the judgment and memory
strengthened. It is one mark of good un-
derstanding not to get anything that is not
really needed, and if it can possibly be
avoided, never to take what cannot be paid
for at the time. But if, as at times such
things will occur, it is necessary to ask for
trust, keeping a small account book and
having the tradesman charge both himself
and the purchaser at the same time, often
saves money and future trouble and uncer-
tainty. A lady of experience remarks that
in large families it is best to purchase large
quantities of household requisites at a time;
but less where a family is small, as, where
plenty is known to exist, there is apt to be
too lavish use. Buy articles of clothing that
will wear and wash well. A beautiful con-
sistency should pervade the whole house,
and if there must be stint, let it not be in
the kitchen comforts and conveniences. Let
there not be a well furnished parlor and
shabby sleeping rooms; or all these things
in abundance, and an ill supplied kitchen
and pantry. A correct system of economy
and how to make the proper and best use of
things in these respects, can no more be
learned without experience and pains-tak-
ing, than any other trade or science. Yet,
these are principles that every woman should
understand, and practice understandingly.
It need not and should not occupy the whole
time of a woman’s life to keep her house
and all pertaining to it in perfect order and
neatness. A portion of her time should
wisely be appropriated to the culture and
development of the intellectual faculties
[end of column; start of new column]
with which she has been blessed ; arrange-
ments should be made, if possible, so that
religious services, the reception of friends,
or the acceptance of a cordial invitation to
wait on friends, need not be hindered by, or
interfere with, the general domestic duties.
And because usefulness is to be considered
paramount to everything else in selecting
household furniture, utensils, etc., the proper
adornments need not be neglected. Pictures
and flowers, and everything that is truly
beautiful and pleasing to the eye, enhance
general happiness, and the lowliest home
should not be without a proportionate share
of them.
	Using the Mop.—Mrs. L. H. C. Wayne,
of New York, writes : “Where one has a
hardwood, oak or maple floor, strong, hot
soapsuds may be freely used. If, on the
contrary, the floor is pine and nicely painted,
it will need painting two or three times a
year, if hot or even strong soapsuds are used.
Hired girls and washer-women often make
sad havoc with the paint, soaping, and even
scouring with hot ashes. With a clean mop
and clean, soft, warm, or hot water, first run
the mop all along the mop boards, in the
corners, on the thresholds, over the oil-
cloths and zincs, in the pantry and all the
particular places. Change the water before
it assumes a muddy appearance. Draw
out the table a little and run a clean mop
behind that. There is no need of breaking
one’s back stooping down, if both mop and
water are quite clean.”
	Eve’s Pudding.—Half a pound of apples;
half a pound of bread-crumbs; a pint of
milk; half a pound of currants ; six ounces
of sugar ; two eggs, and the grated rind of a
lemon. Chop the apple small ; add the
bread-crumbs, currants, sugar, and lemon-
peel, then the eggs, well beaten; boil it
three hours, in a buttered mold, and serve
with sweet sauce.
	Furniture Polish.—One pint of linseed
oil, one wineglass of alcohol; mix well to-
gether ; apply with a linen rag; rub dry
with a soft cloth, and polish with a silk one.
Furniture is improved by washing it occa-
sionally with soapsuds. Wipe dry, and rub
over with a little kerosene oil upon a clean
flannel. The application of kerosene oil is a
preventive of vermin.
	To Prevent Suppuration.—Acetate of
lead dissolved with strong vinegar. Apply
cloths dipped in the liquid as often as they
dry, say every fifteen minutes, for an hour
or two, until the pain abates. Repeat at in-
tervals. For a delicate person the compound
must not be too powerful, or injury may be
sustained.
	Cold meat is not healthful or digestible,
except to very well conditioned stomachs,
and when perfectly tender. Most house-
keepers would find it advantageous to study
methods of making it into varied and palat-
able dishes, such as minces, croquettes,
gravy-pies, English and Irish stews, and the
like.
	Hydrophobia.—It is asserted by medi-
cal men, that if lunar caustic is used imme-
diately after the bite of a rabid animal, well
rubbed into and dissolved in the wound, the
virus is counteracted.
	Warm Indian bannocks, or a light Sally
Lunn tea-cake, make a nice relish for tea,
and crackers may be utilized by being dip-
ped in water or milk, heated in the oven,
and then buttered.


﻿A LAWRENCE machine for making wall
paper produces seventy-nine miles of paper
daily, being run twenty-three hours out of
the twenty-four.


