THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.
A BRIEF SKETCH OF ITS ORGANIZATION AND WORK-
INGS IN THE CITY OF NAUVOO, HANCOCK CO.. ILL.
		BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
			(Concluded.)
	When organized, the Society consisted of
nineteen members, exclusive of its officers.
This number augmented from time to time,
until at the close of the fiscal year it
amounted to 1158. The meetings were so
large that the largest hall in the city was
densely crowded and it became necessary to
adjourn to the Grove, the usual place in
the Summer for holding Sabbath meeting,
which was provided with a suitable stand
and a supply of seats for large assemblies.
	The Society soon became so popular that
even those of doubtful character in several
instances applied for admission, and to pre-
vent imposition by extending membership
to such ones inadvertently, stricter rules
were adopted than seemed requisite at first.
Each one wishing to join the Society was
required to present a certificate of her good
moral character, signed by two or more re-
sponsible persons.
	The meetings were opened and closed by
singing and prayer, and systematic order was
observed throughout. In each meeting reports
were given by those whose duty it was to
visit from house to house and inquire into
the circumstances of the sick and destitute
—donations were received and those subjects
discussed which appertain to woman’s du-
ties, influence, responsibilities, etc., etc.—
whatever has a tendency to benefit and ele-
vate society at home and abroad.
	Frequently President Joseph Smith, Bish-
op N. K. Whitney and brethren of the
Twelve met with the sisters, and through
the inspiration of the Spirit of God, imparted
rich counsel and intelligence; instructing,
not only in duties concerning the poor, but
also in all the relations of life, as wives, me-
thers, daughters, sisters, and, as saints of
the Most High, our duties to one another
and our responsibilities as examples to the
world, etc.
	The first winter after the Society was or-
ganized, was exceedingly cold and severe.
Many, in consequence of exposure and hard-
ship in their expulsion from the State of
Missouri, and the unhealthiness of the cli-
mate of Nauvoo, had been reduced by sick-
ness to destitution, and had it not been for
the timely aid of the F. R. Society would
have suffered very much, and propably some
would have perished.
	About the last of July, 1842, when some
of the officials of Missouri were taking meas-
ures to drag President Joseph Smith from
Illinois by an illegal process, the F. R. Soci-
ety sent a petition to Thomas Carlin, Gov-
ernor of Illinois, in behalf of Pres. Smith,
claiming his protection as chief magistrate.
The petition was signed by every member
of the Society, and presented by its Presi-
dent, Mrs. Emma Smith, accompanied by
Mrs. Amanda Smith and Miss E. R. Snow.
The Governor’s residence was in Quincy,
fifty miles south from Nauvoo.
	The following is transcribed from my
journal, written after my return :   “The
Governor received us with as much cordi-
ality and politeness as His Excellency was
master of, assuring us of his protection by
saying that the laws and Constitution of our
country shall be his polar star in case of any
difficulty. He manifested much friendship,
and it remains for time and circumstance to
prove the sincerity of his professions.”
We subsequently ascertained that at the
very time that the ladies of Nauvoo were
[end of column; start of new column]
visiting him, presenting the petition and
listening to his protestations of friendship
and love for legal right and justice, his em-
issaries were engaged in secret plotting in
his behalf, against the rights and safety of
Pres. Smith, and aiding the unprincipled
bloodhounds of Missouri.  But whatever
the result, the F. R. Society had made a no-
ble effort, and it was compensated by know-
ing that the great, good man, Joseph Smith,
appreciated it.
	The city of Nauvoo was divided into four
wards, and after the Society became too nu-
merous to convene in one assembly, it was
decided to meet alternately in the different
wards from week to week so as to give equal
opportunities to all.
	Pres. Joseph Smith donated a city lot to
the Society for the purpose of making homes
for the homeless, and also to furnish work
to those who were able to work and were
out of employment, which he proposed
deeding to the Treasurer and her succes-
sors in office, for the use of the Society. He
also donated the frame of a house, and made
arrangements for it to be moved on the
aforesaid lot, for a commencement of the es-
tablishment. But this benevolent and judi-
cious project, with many others which were
designed for the amelioration of the condi-
tion of suffering humanity, was blasted in
the bud by the blighting hand of religious
persecution, and through which the once
beautiful city of Nauvoo became a desolation,
and its inhabitants exiled to Mexico.
	God, who makes the wrath of man praise
Him, has overruled, as He ever does in all
things, for the good of them who put their
trust in Him. In having been driven from
a city, we have become a Territory—
should have been a State—and here,
the Female Relief Society, more amply
developed than in Nauvoo, has extended its
branches to every ward, and settlement
from Bear Lake in the North to Santa Clara
in the South, and yet, as seen in prospec-
tive, it has but little more than emerged
from its embryo state in comparison to its
great future.


