HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	UTAH is credited with having made more cor-
rect land entries and receiving patents up to a later
date than any other place in the country.
Brief as has been the EXPONENT's existence so
far, it has been praised and bespattered already in
different quarters, Those who uttered the first
have our thanks; and as it suits the others to so
advertise our paper, we are content.

  SALT LAKE CITY is putting on metropolitan airs.
Large iron-fronted stores are being multiplied, busi-
ness crowds the streets, massive chignons and
 “Dolly Vardens” dot the sidewalks, and small
youths with slender canes make themselves conspic-
uous at limited intervals.

    STOREKEEPERS AND salesmen ought to be grate-
ful to the municipal authorities of Salt Lake City
for the ordinance which requires them to keep their
doors closed on Sundays, as it gives them a chance
for a needed periodical day of rest, which ' might
otherwise be denied some of them.

  HON. W. H. HOOPER, Delegate in Congress for
Utah, is expected home to-morrow night, the l6th.
He deserves well of the people of Utah, for he has
been an energetic, faithful and unflinching advocate
of their rights.   Hons. Geo. Q. Cannon and Frank
Fuller, who have also been in Washington acting in
behalf of the citizens of this Territory accompany
him.

  THE JUDGE who from his place on the bench
sought to brand thousands of the purest women in
Utah—matrons whose blameless lives would sanctify
any community on the continent—with the foulest
stigma, returns to again occupy the same position.
He may exercise the power, but he will fail to
command the respect which his office should receive.
The Supreme Court of the United States has so pro-
nounced, and the country at large has endorsed the
justness of the decision.

   WE HAVE received numerous words of encour-
agement, by letter and orally, since the first number
of the Exponent was issued, These are gratify-
ing, and in several instances they have been accom-
panied by more substantial tokens in the shape of
lists of subscribers. It is pleasing to know that
the paper meets the general approval; and to re-
ciprocate the kind wishes offered for its success,
we shall endeavor to make it as interesting, instruc-
tive and valuable as we possibly can.

  SEVERAL CASES of drowning and other serious
accidents have occurred within the last few days in
this and neighboring localities. One of the saddest
was the case of Mrs. Whitehead, of Sugar House
Ward, who on the eve of approaching maternity
accidentally fell into the swollen creek and was
swept down stream and drowned. Her name
stands upon the EXPONENT'S subscription list, but
the day the first number was carried out to Sugar
House Ward she was thus untimely snatched from
earth.

   THE IOWA Press Association are en route to Salt
Lake, a hundred persons, it is said, forming the
excursion party. Still other delegations of the edi-
torial brotherhood could visit this region to advan-
tage, if they would remain sufficiently long to learn
facts, so that they might afterwards speak justly
and understandingly of Utah and its inhabitants. 

A little more knowledge concerning Utah as it is
and has been, possessed by editors, and a great
deal less reliance on the misrepresentations of cer-
tain correspondents, would hurt nobody and would
benefit the country.

  THERE HAS occurred some difficulty in having
the EXPONENT delivered in this city, which we are
wiling to meet thus: We will send the papers
through the postoffice, or in parcels into the several
wards; and for those who are desirous of having
them delivered at their residences, a newspaper-
carrier will so distribute them for twenty-five cents
a year from each subscriber.  Will subscribers in-
form us which way they prefer?


