IMPORTANT INDUSTRIES.
			   
  Virtue reigns in the rural districts. This
truism though old will bear repeating. And
every industry which offers employment for
the young in their own homes, with equal pe-
cuniary compensation to that which would be
obtained in large factories, where contamina-
tion with immoral tendencies is too frequent,
should be encouraged.
  Just now two industries of this character pre-
sent themselves for consideration and a season-
able word in their favor. One is straw-plait-
ing; the other is sericulture. Both are easily
learned, light and cleanly. Many women in
Utah understand the straw-plaiting business
thoroughly, and we have seen as handsome
work made by some of them as we have ever
seen on imported straw goods. It is an occupa-
tion that can be followed in the Winter; and
when Spring comes, the plaited straw can be
worked up into the desired fashions that vari-
ous tastes demand. The outlay is compara-
tively nothing. A bunch of rye or wheat straw
furnishes the material and lithe young fingers
can soon learn to deftly weave the plaits with
neatness and dispatch. One great objection
made against patronizing home-manufactured
straw goods Is that they cost more than impor-
ted goods. This should be met by workers not
demanding too high pay, and by dealers doing
with the lowest possible profits. By and by,
when a thriving business has been successfully
created,it will be found that Utah straw goods
can be made and furnished as cheap as those
imported, if not cheaper.
   Sericulture only occupies a portion of the time
during the Summer. The mulberry trees grow,
and when Spring time comes they put forth
their leaves as food for the busy worms, which
eat and work, spinning the silken home for
their eggs. These eggs are valuable as an arti-


cle of commerce. Apart from the fact that the
manufacture of silk is a pleasant as well as
profitable occupation, from the breeding and
sale of the eggs alone a handsome income can
be secured with little trouble and less outlay.
  We do not design to elaborate on either topic
now, but merely present them to keep them
before the public mind, for they have often been
dwelt upon through the press and from the
stand, and should be familiar to most of the
readers of the EXPONENT.


