FACTS AND FIGURES.
				
THE piano was Invented 155 years ago.
BONNER'S ten horses have cost him $145,-
500.
 THE new style of artificial flower is called
“ cinders do Chicago.”
   IN England wedding rings are required
to be made 22 carats fine.
  No less than 685,000 sewing machines
were made in America last year.
  MENTION is made of umbrellas in Chinese
books printed more than 1,500 years ago.
  GLASS bottles were made in England about
1558, but the art was practised by the Ro-
mans in 79, A. D.
  ONE person is born in London every five
minutes, and another dies every seven min-
utes in that great city.
 A .MASSUCHUSETTS organ grinder has a
bank account of $10,000 and shows no dis-
position to retire from his lucrative profes-
sion.
 THE first daily paper established in Eng-
land is said to have been published in 1702
by Elizabeth Mallet. It was called the
“ Daily Courant.”
   THERE are but three farms in Massachu-
setts having over 1,000 acres of land—one of
them is in Bristol, one in Dukes and one in
Norfolk county.
   FOOT'S comedy of “ The Lame Lover,”
first played at the Haymarket Theatre, Lon-
don, in 1770, was recently revived in that
city, but with poor success.
  THE State of Florida has 58,268 square
miles, while Pennsylvania has only 46,000.
Its situation resembles that of Italy, and it
is estimated that it can support as large a
population.
 THE Catskill (N, Y.) Mountain House
stands 3,000 feet above the Hudson, and
from the front balcony a view extending
over about 10,000 square miles can be had
on a clear day.
 THE population of Europe at the present
time is three hundred and forty millions.
It has doubled within a century. The Uni-
ted States doubles its population every quar-
ter of a century.
  A VERY curious map is in the Galerie d’
Apollon, in the Louvre.  It represents
France in the time of Louis XIV., and is
composed of various colored marbles, like
Florentine mosaic.
  MR. Julius A. Sumner, of Akron, Ohio,
claims to be the first man to ride on a pas-
senger car in the United States; that he
sailed on the first steamboat on Lake Erie,
and built the first rolling mill and nail fac-
tory in Ohio.
 THERE are 22 saw-mills at Muskegon,
Michigan, most of which doubled their ca-
pacity last winter, and are now running day
and night, with two gangs of hands. The
daily lumber product of Muskegon will be
about 2,000,000 feet, besides lath.
  IT requires five millions of men, half a
million of horses and eight thousand can-
non, maintained at an annual expense of
seven hundred millions of dollars to pre-
serve the peace of Europe. This is exclu-
sive of the cost of forts, arsenals, ships, wa-
gons, tents, hospitals, etc., etc.
  SWITZERLAND is said to be the only coun-
try in Europe where more money is spent
on education than on the army. The edu-
cational budget is two millions of francs,
while the military expenses remain below
that sum; yet, when needed, the little re-
public can raise an army of 200,000 men.


