SPLINTERS.
			
  The coming musical prodigy is an infant
three years old, in New York, who sings
airs from the operas and plays the accompa-
niment correctly without practice or teach-
ing, apparently by instinct......A prayer
meeting was held in a Connecticut village,
over the case of a sister who had determined
on wedding-“a man of sin.” During the
meeting the sister arose, went out, and mar-
ried the fellow......It is reported that more
than two-fifths of the population of Brooklyn
are boarders, and more than one fourth of
its fifty-eight thousand houses are boarding
houses......The Prime Minister of the Fiji
Islands has gone to Australia for the purpose
of negotiating a loan......The proposed Rus-
sian canal, intended to connect the Black
Sea with the Caspian, is favored by the Gov-
ernment......A combined purpose to put
down gambling hells in London, is largely
occupying the attention of the police and
Government of that metropolis......The fa-
ther of James Fisk may be met frequently
in Broadway, New York, a plain, quiet old
man, who saw a world of trouble in his way-
ward son......A tent 100 x 150 feet was put
up in Oakland last month, for the Sunday
School Convention.......Champanini, a new
tenor, who appears in London, is said to sur-
pass Giuglini.......The price of water in Pi-
oche has been reduced from four to two and
a half cents per gallon......Mining wages in
Montana average about $5.00 per day......
The Santa Barbara “Press” continues to
urge the people to aid the railroad......La-
borers now get $2.50 per day in Oregon, for
the first time in ten years......Mrs. Mary
Patelle has reported at Washington that she
is going to be successful in procuring pre-
emption rights for the women in Oregon
and the Territories......Theo. Tilton thus il-
lustrates Greeley’s “disciplined and pene-
trating instinct:" “We have known him
to sleep through a long speech, and then at
its close rise and reply to it, point for point.”
......Thomas Carlyle, the great English au-
thor, has come out in favor of a prohibitory
liquor law for England......A young man in
Chicago, being intoxicated, recently hung
himself in a barn window, while endeavor-
ing to enter the barn, and was not discov-
ered until he was suffocated......Miss Nellie
Grant has been entertained at lunch by Ma-
dame Thiers......The Imperial army band of
Germany and the band of the British Gren-
adier Guards, will participate in the World’s
Peace Jubilee at Boston......Captain Bird, of
the trading schooner “Eagle,” and crew of
six men, are reported to have been murdered
by savages on one of the Solomon Islands......
An English statesman, now seventy-four
years of age, publishes a work entitled “ As-
tronomy and Geology compared,” in which
he controverts the theory of Darwin......Half
a million of dollars is said to have been
drawn from the San Francisco banks, from
the latter part of April to the first of June,
by small depositors who were enticed into
mining stock purchases......Recently, while
a party of engineers were examining the
disused gangway of Pine Ridge colliery, two
miles from Wilkesbarre, Pa., an explosion
of fire-damp took place. Three men were
killed and another badly hurt......The body
of a man, supposed to have been murdered
was lately found in East river, New York
with his hands and feet strapped together.
......The Equal Rights Convention, at New
York, after volumes of persiflage, voted to
enter the canvass with the Goddess of Lib-
erty on their banner, and authorize $3,000
in bonds to elect Victoria Woodhull to the
Presidency......Mr. Quincy, of Massachu-
setts, opposes woman suffrage. Who cares?

......Abram Garber, of Virginia, died a
few days since of lockjaw, produced by a
slight wound to one of his toes.....James
Gordon Bennett leaves an ample fortune,
entirely the results of his journalistic labors.
......Taxation is a vestige of civilization un-
known in Morocco. The funds raised there
are called “loans,”......Prof. Ring, of Bos-
ton, loses $20,000 in his mammoth balloon
which took fire spontaneously, and was de-
stroyed, on the 6th inst......Mr. Georrwine,
of Louisville, a German 62 years of age, ac-
cidentally walked into a cistern and was
drowned......A medical and surgical history
of the rebellion is soon to be completed and
published......The French band that came
from France to take part in the Jubilee, ar-
rived at Boston on the morning of the 7th.
.....An Indiana man lately obtained a divorce
from his ninth wife......A Kentucky bull,
worth a thousand dollars, and a locomotive
had an encounter recently. The hide and
tallow didn’t sell for much......Belladona in-
jected under the skin of the arms saved a
Massachusetts woman who indulged in a
deathly dose of opium........The Emperor
William, of Germany, is said to be steadily
sinking into his grave.


