PEN AND SCISSORS.
				
	 HAVE you your great grandmother’s bon-
net put away anywhere? If you have bring
it out, and wear it, envied by all your
friends as the happy possessor of the latest
thing out.

   IT HAS been estimated that at least one-
fifth of the land should be planted with for-
est trees in order to maintain the proper hy-
grometic and electric equilibrium for suc-
cessful farming.

   Somebody tells the “Scientific American”
of a way to clear a well of carbonic acid gas.
It is to lower a red-hot iron in the water, so
as to produce a little steam. The vapor in-
stantly absorbs the gas.

  THE average wages paid per day to me-
chanics in Austria is $1; in England, $1.25;
in Prussia,75 cents; in France, $1.10; in
Belgium, Norway and Sweden, 60 cents; in
Italy and Portugal, 40 cents.

	“CAN you tell me how old the devil is?”
asked an irreverent fellow of a clergyman.
"My friend, you must keep your own family
record,” was the answer.
	A PEKIN woman, asked if her husband
feared the Lord, replied, “Fear him ? why,
bless you, he is so ’feared of him that he
never goes out of the house o’ Sundays with-
out taking his gun along.”
	There are 103 ladies employed in the dif-
ferent branches of the Interior Department
at Washington.  Their salaries range from
$900 to $1,200. The Treasury Department
gives employment to 265 women.
	An eccentric Connecticut gentleman, re-
cently deceased, left to religious institutions
$75,000, to his cook $120,000, and to each of
his five children $400. This man’s affec-
tions lay principally in his stomach.
	Said a Detroit lady to a gentleman of that
city, “You are a musician, I believe?”
"No,” said he ; “ If I were the proprietor of
a hand organ, set expressly to play ‘Old
Hundred,’ I couldn’t get seventy-five out
of it.”
     A BALTIMORE minister has been deposed
just for playing whisky poker and auction
pitch for the drinks in a lager beer saloon.
How particular some people are becoming.
The next thing will be to stop clergymen offi-
ciating who indulge in any of the “larger
vices.”
   PROGRESSIVE teacher to a pupil of the
period : “ Sary Jane Hooker, just take that
chewing gum right out of your mouth. Lit-
tle girls who chew gum in school need
never expect- to become President of the
United States.” Ambitious young ladies,
with Presidential aspirations, will please
take due notice, and reduce the gum traffic
proportionately.
   “Will you please hand me the scissors ?”
asked a lady of her little boy. And when
he had done as requested she courteously
acknowledged the accommodation by say-
ing, “ Thank you, dear.” A young “rough”
who happened to be present enquired,
"Why do you say ‘if you please’ and ‘ thank
you’ to that boy?”  To which the lady re-
plied : “Because I wish him to do the
same by me, and all others.” If that boy
does not make a polite and affable man,
it will not be the fault of his mother.
	Some of the magnesian cements used in
India are remarkably firm and durable.
They begin settling in two or three hours,
and become hard in a few days, continuing
to harden for many years.
	At a recent trial the counsel for the prose-
cution, after severely cross-examining a wit-
ness, suddenly put on a look of severity and
exclaimed:
	“Now, sir, was not an effort made to in-
duce you to tell a different story ?”
	“A different story from what I have told,
do you mean?”
	“That’s what I mean.”
	“Yes, sir; several persons have tried to
get me to tell a different story from what I-
have told, but they couldn’t.”
	“Now sir, upon your oath, I wish to know
who these persons are.”
	“Well, you’ve tried about as hard as any
of them.”
  He was questioned no further on that
point.


﻿THE New Haven “Palladium" says: A young
man, at a wedding in Bedford recently, while prom-
enading with a lady, chanced to approach the offi-
ciating clergyman, who happening to be deaf, and
supposing them to be the couple he had come to
unite, immediately married them in spite of remon-
strance.  They accepted the situation.


