ABOUT WOMEN.
		
	THE Empress of Austria is said to be the
most beautiful woman in Europe.
  THE religious department of a St. Louis
paper is in charge of Miss Fanny Holy.
  A PROVIDENCE lady lecturer concludes it
won’t pay. Only two tickets were sold.
  THE Michigan University at Ann Arbor
has sixty-three young women students.
  MAGGIE MITCHELL has made her re-entry
to the dramatic world on the stage of a Bos-
ton theatre.
  MRS. Fanny Frazer Foster is considered
one of the most successful singing teachers
in the United States.
  A BALL was recently given at Marion,
New York, at which every lady present
wore a Dolly Varden costume.
  NEW HAVEN has a ladies’ reading room,
furnished with piano, tables, handsome car-
pet, local and weekly papers, etc.
  A TERRE HAUTE lady aged threescore
years and ten has attended every circus
within reach since she was five years old.
  MRS. Florence Donahue, a lady of Chicope,
Mass., not yet thirty years old, is mother of
fifteen children.  She weighs 249 pounds.
  MISS Ellen F. Starbuck has been the con-
fidential clerk to the last three Governors of
Massachusetts—Andrews, Bullock, and Claf-
lin.
  ’TIS said that a Hindoo in the city of Al-
labad (“ city of God”) has a diamond worth
an untold amount and weighing above 100
carats.
  FANS for the convenience of lazy women
have been attached to sewing machines and
are worked by the power which runs the
machine.
  MRS. Jane Farley, in a fit of jealous des-
pondency, cut her throat in a friend’s house
in New York, lately, dying in a few
minutes.
  HALF the depositors in the Massachusetts
savings banks are women, and $26,000,000
is the sum total of the amount deposited by
these delightful darlings.
  MADAM Kibrisli Pasha, widow of the late
Grand Vizier Kibrisli Mehamet Pasha, will
issue an autobiographical work called
“Thirty Years in a Harem.”
  A LADY who was inclined to favor ,the
woman suffrage movement, went to Wash-
ington, had a chat with Dr. Mary Walker,
and came back bitterly opposed to it.
  MRS. Dr. Mary J. Studley ranked third in
a recent competitive examination for five
positions on the house staff of the New York
Charity Hospital. She will not have a place,
however, on the ground that the medical
board “deem it inexpedient to appoint a fe-
male to such a position.”
   A BOSTON bride, whose groom remonstra-
ted with her at the wedding for indulging
in a rather indiscriminate bestowal of her
maiden kisses on a number of her male
friends, remarked with natural naivete that
the gentlemen in question had been in the
habit of kissing her all her life, and she
didn’t see why they should stop now.
  MRS. Peter Gronda, of Mackinac, is the
prolific mother of twenty-three children,
the grandmother of fifteen children, the off-
spring of a son, and thirteen more the off-
spring of a daughter.  Another daughter
has twelve more little ones, and still others
of Mrs. Gronda’s brood have flourishing
families. This multitudinous mother is vig-
orous and hearty, and uses snow-shoes in
her frequent ten-mile tramps.


