F. M. SOCIETY REPORTS.
	Mrs. Amelia M. Frodsham writes from
Ogden, under date June 12, that at the last
meeting of the Society there the same good
feelings and lively spirit were manifested as
previously reported. Meetings are held
regularly every three weeks, in Child’s
Hall, at 2 P. M., and the members will be
pleased to see any one from this city inter-
ested in the Society, who may be visiting
Ogden. The next meeting will be held on
the 27th inst.
	Will the Secretaries of other Societies, in
different parts of the Territory, kindly for-
ward us reports of their progress ?


﻿“Spotted Tail” indignantly denies that
he authorized the association of his name
with that of Victoria C. Woodhull on the
Presidential ticket. The following dispatch
has been received from him : “Woodhull ?
Squaw ! Ugh ! Me no run !” “Spotted
Tail” is evidently an intelligent mortal, but
not capable of understanding what a mania
for notoriety and bad politics will lead peo-
ple to do.
	Several of the New England woollen
mills have stopped work on account of the
high price of wool and the small demand
for goods.
	A young lady of Buffalo is about to sail
for Russia to fulfill a marriage engagement
with M. Levy, the famous cornet player.
She will be accompanied by her mother.


﻿WHY ?
	Why are all these “strong minded” peo-
ple using such strong language in relation 
to woman suffrage? Do “strong minded
women” think to coerce strong minded men
into believing as they do by waging a war 
of bitter words ? And do men think to put 
a stop to this burst of enthusiasm by scoffing
at and ridiculing it ? Who ever heard of 
an intelligent man yielding to a woman who
undertook to drive him, or of a woman who 
would not continue with increased persist- 
ence in the way she had chosen the more 
she was jeered at ?	
	When a man of sound judgment marries 
a woman of good sense, there is no necessity 
for the ruling authority to be manifested in 
their home; good order can be preserved 
without it.
	If they differ in opinion at times, the one 
who is possessed of the greater power of
persuasion, or the more gifted as a reasoner,
gets the best of it in most cases, and as this 
happy portion nearly always falls to the wo-
man, let us hope that she is, at least gener-
ally, in the right. She is certainly of a
more refined and delicate nature, less im-
petuous and venturesome, more considerate 
and sympathetic; conseqently less liable to 
rush into temptation. This, it is her right 
to be, the great Creator having so intended
it, and it is no discredit to either sex that it 
is so. Had God created man the superior
in all respects, it would have been very un-
just to give him, for a companion and help
mate, so inferior an object as woman must 
have been. Had He made woman the supe-
rior in most respects, the arrangement would 
have been equally unjust. But He created
them for each other, as nearly alike as it was
wisdom in Him to form them, and so that
one is of little or no consequence without
the other.	
	When a woman designates men as
“ brutes,” does she consider the relationship
she cannot help sustaining to at least one of
them,  and the debt she owes him for her
present existence? And when a man
speaks of women as a class, calling them 
“fools,” can it be that he reflects upon those
laws of nature which often bequeath to chil-
dren—especially boys—more of the moth--
er’s intellectual characteristics than the fa-
ther’s ?
	Why so much contention and babbling?
If one couple can live agreeably by studying
and practicing the art of peace, why should
not a community for the same cause be af-
fected in like manner? If women seek the 
right to vote—a right which without doubt:
belongs to them—why do they not go to
work systematically; and good naturedly, 
persuasively and lovingly sue for it ? And, 
then, why should not the men, like honest,
sensible coadjutors, universally concede it?


Quick Atlantic Passage. — The Na-
tional Line of steamers, which have become
deservedly popular with European tourists,
as sumptuously appointed and substantially
constructed vessels, are also acquiring celeb-
rity for their speed, as well as their safety
and splendor. The "Spain,” which is one
of the finest specimens of naval architecture
in this favorite line, has just completed one
of the quickest passages across the Atlantic
on record. She sailed from Queenstown on
the 18th ultimo, at 2 P. M., and arrived at
Sandy Hook on the 27th at 3 A. M., making
the run in the remarkably short period of
eight days and thirteen hours. Invention
and science are so shortening distance, in
point of time, that a trip from Salt Lake to
London, made in seven days, is within the
bounds of probability within ten years.


