WEATHER AND HEALTH.
			  
  The weather has a great influence—great-	
er than is commonly supposed—upon our 
physical systems. Every person has a time 
for being especially sick, if ever sick at all,
apart from all effects of diet, occupation, or
general habits. Some cannot abide a pro-
longed “dry spell." Many individuals
are surely depressed by the approach and	
reign of Spring; others have their weak	
spots probed sharply by the heats and	
draughts of Summer ; the majority of peo-
ple suffer pains and disabilities from the pe-
culiar atmosphere and sudden changes of
Autumn; and the chill rigors of Winter in-
capacitate multitudes from physical and
mental ease and comfort. In certain cli-
mates, there are “fatal” months, during
which everybody should be most careful of
their health, using every endeavor to be
clothed properly, and to be in every other
respect protected from baleful and climatic
injuries. In the majority of the United
States, the months of March and November
exercise the most pernicious influences, and 
witness the greatest number of deaths. In the 
Southern States, and in what may be termed
the Middle States, the Summer months reap 
for grim Death the greatest harvest. But 
even the effects of the extreme heat could,
in many cases, be prevented from operating 
fatally, or even to moderation of great suf-
fering, by prudential habits and systemati-
cal observance of common-sense sanitary
rules. Taking the country at large, we
have more deaths in the six colder months 
of January, February, March, April, Novem-
ber, and December, than in the other six
months of the year. It is in the colder
months that the most terrible maladies are
contracted—those which hang on, and tor-
ture, and punish, and linger only (if not 
treated according to the best and only sensi-
ble method) to kill. The warmer months
are made especially the season of the quick
fatalities, which make short work when
they get hold of systems that have been at
any other season improperly medicated, or
in any other way enfeebled, and thrown
open to the assaults of malignant disease.
Children come in for a larger share of suffer-
ing in the Summer than in any other season.
If their parents and guardians would see
that they are kept properly clean, and have
free range out of doors (never at mid-day,
or in the night air), subsist on a plain and
mildly stimulating diet, of which cooked
fruits, or the ripe fruits of the season un-
cooked, should form a lagre proportion,
sleep in well-aired and well-sunned apart-
ments, and avoid the usual course of drug-
ging, relying for medicines upon what Na-
ture so amply provides during the Summer
season, in the fields, woods, and by the
roadside, mortality among the juveniles
would be decreased by a large percentage.
Grown people would do well to adapt this 
advice to their own cases.—“Shakesperian  ' 
Almanac.”


﻿THE CELEBRATION of the recent marriage
of the second son of Mr. Powers, the sculp-
tor, at Florence, brought together all the
English and American residents of that city.
There was something, it was observed, ex-
quisitely picturesque in all the accessories
of the social festival; the handsome old
man, surrounded, as in patriarchal days,
with his blooming family of sons, daughters,
and grandchildren, receiving his family in
one of the loveliest of the Tuscan villas
which lie scattered over the wonderful high-
way that now surrounds the City of Flowers.


