[Vol53 | December 1966 | Page 888 | Poem | Lullaby For Jesus Mabel | Jones Gabbott]
I am sure your good brethren, I being among them, love you for the great work eS LULLABY FOR JESUS Mabel Jones Gabbott Sway more gently, cedar trees. Catch the almond-scented breeze That carries heavenly song to earth Of peace, good will, the Savior's birth. All bright stars that shine tonight Lend your brilliance to his light That guides the shepherds, say to them: "The Babe is born in Bethlehem." Cradled in a manger, Gentled by the hay, He is softly sleeping. It is Christmas day. Wrapped in swaddling clothes In the stable there, Look, the mother Mary Has sunshine in her hair. Warmed by oxen's breathing On this most blessed morn, Unto all men everywhere The holy Child is born. Waken, buds on olive boughs, And springtime blossoms open now. Let all nature smile and say, "Christ is born to earth today." you are doing and the integri of your hearts. We pray for yo we uphold you, we want you walk in the light and the unde standing of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that President McKay would want me to leave his bl ing with you, along with min that the Lord will continue bless you good sisters in all y do, and may he bless you wi health and strength to carry this great Relief Society work, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Sister Jesse Evans Smith; President Joseph Fielding Smith; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Counselor Louise W. Madsen; Elder Spencer W. Kimball; Elder S. Dilworth Young. The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1966 Hulda P. Young General Secretary-Treasurer ain a spirit of rejoicing and dedication Relief Society leaders from near and far assembled in Salt Lake City for sessions of the Relief Society Annual General Conference on Wednesday and Thursday, September 28 and 29, 1966. Included among them were devoted and able representatives from "the lands down under" of Australia, New Zealand, and Tonga, and from the first stake created in South America at Sao Paulo, Brazil; from the northlands of Norway, and from Germany; from Mexico and from most of the States in the United States, including Hawaii and Alaska. Special facilities provided simultaneous translation into the Spanish, Norwegian, Samoan, and German languages. For the first time a part of the conference was broadcast internationally via the Church-owned shortwave station in New York— WNYW. Portions of the Tabernacle sessions were aired in English and Spanish. These same broadcasts were also heard on KSL Radio beginning at midnight on October 9. Prior to the formal opening of the conference on Wednesday,