[Vol53 | December 1966 | Page 884 | Special Feature | Keeping the Commandments of Our Eternal Father | Joseph Fielding Smith]
President Joseph Fielding Smith Of The First Presidency XXXXX KAAA ti ve mitt JUUUL Hdd JUUU heeping the Commandments of Qur Eternal Father [ Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] a My dear sisters, it is a privilege for me to speak to you at this conference, and I appreciate President McKay assigning me to this session. This is certainly a wonderful sight to think that you good sisters have come from all parts of the world to attend this conference. I congratulate you for your faith and your integrity and I want to say to you, we pray for you constantly. You are doing a wonderful work, and the Prophet certainly was inspired by the Spirit of the Lord to have such an organization as the Relief Society given to the Church. You have a great work to perform. We want you to know that the work you are performing BB4 is fully appreciated by the brethren of the Authorities of the Church. There is not a home in any part of the world where the Bible should not be found. There is not a home in which The Book of Mormon should not be found. I am _ speaking of Latter-day Saint homes. There is no home where the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price should not be. Don't keep them on the shelves or in the cupboard, but opened where they can easily be reached, that the members of the family might find access to them and sit down and read and study the principles of the gospel for themselves.

KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS OF OUR ETERNAL FATHER I feel that many Latter-day Saints—our sisters as well as our brethren, are under condemnation before the Lord because he has given us so much pertaining to our present needs and our salvation, and yet the great majority of us, if I have the right understanding, don't study, and we don't hunt for these things and we don't know about them, and sO we are in danger—danger of being led astray. We ought to live the truth, that is, the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That ought to be the choicest thing in all the world, and why not? These words are so beautiful here: 'More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb" (Psalms 19:10). How many of us feel that way? Are they sweet to us like that? Well, sisters, if they are not, we have nobody to blame but ourselves. I will ask you this question, and you can answer it for yourselves. Who should have a better understanding of the fundamental principles of the gospel than the mother in the home? Well, I don't know of anybody. Why? Because she is with those little children of hers more than the father, if she is doing her duty as she ought to do, and they come to her with their questions. They come to her knee, and that is why she ought to instruct them. She could make a _ far better job of it than the father, and I am not excusing the father. It is as much his responsibility to see that the children are reared in light and truth as the Lord has said. The Lord has placed that responsibility upon us. He has made it so definite, and he also gave us a warning that it is the fathers and mothers of children who will have to answer if their children go wrong, if they have neglected these responsibilities. I said something about this in the Relief Society Conference in 1962, but it will not hurt to repeat some of it. Teach your children. Now, you good mothers, © you should teach your children virtue, chastity, and they should be taught from their early childhood. And they should be made aware of the pitfalls and the dangers that are so prevalent throughout the world. We are living in a wicked world. When you read your newspapers you can discover that, and they give us but a small fraction of what goes on. Wickedness prevails. One of my good brethren who had the right to speak some years ago said: "Chastity is dead." I hope that isn't true of virtue. The tendency of the times is toward evil. I deplore, and I know my brethren do, the tendency in the world which Latterday Saints imitate and copy, as far as women are concerned, at least in their dress. You mothers in your homes, are you in the habit of letting little children run around scantily clothed because it is warm weather, practically naked or nearly so? And they grow up that way, that is, thinking that there is nothing wrong in exposing their bodies. What did the Lord give Adam and Eve garments for? To clothe themselves, and the Lord does not like nakedness. And I think the Latter-day Saints should not follow the fashions and the immodesty of the 


 world. We are the people of the Lord. He expects us to live clean, virtuous lives, to keep our thoughts clean and our minds pure and faithful in the observance of all his other commandments. Why should we follow the world, why can we not be modest, why can't we do the things the Lord would have us do? I am not finding fault with any of you good sisters here, and what I am saying maybe doesn't apply to a single one of you, because you are the women who are active. You are the women who are teaching and directing. I am not talking to you particularly, but to the sisters of all of the Church and to the fathers of all of the Church for that matter. When you go into the homes to visit, can't you do something to encourage the mothers to teach their children, to read the scriptures to them and bring them up as the Lord has said, in light and truth? You sisters have a_ glorious work to do laboring with the sisters of the Church and teaching them to keep the commandments of our Eternal Father. The Savior said: "If ye love me, keep my commandments" (John 14: 15). Never in the history of the world has the need of keeping the commandments of the Lord been made manifest more than today. Now you good sisters are playing your part in-this great undertaking of bringing to pass righteousness and truth and a love of God in the hearts of the members of the Church. We ought to be grateful that we live in this day, notwithstanding all the fears and the troubles and the anxiety which come upon us because of conditions that prevail in the world. Our sisters are entitled just as much to the inspiration for their needs of the Holy Spirit as are the men. They are entitled to the gift of prophecy concerning matters that would be essential for them to know as it is for the men. When they pray, they should pray earnestly, expecting to have an answer to their prayers. The Lord will hear them, if they are earnest, true, just as well as he will the brethren. The women have a voice in the government of the Church. When someone is appointed to an office, we do not ask the men only to vote, but we ask the whole congregation. The women have a right to raise their hands. They have a right to speak. And it was by the inspiration of the Almighty that the Relief Society came into existence. When the Lord said that no person could be saved in ignorance, I think he meant women as well as he did men, and I think the women of the Church are under the obligation of studying the scriptures just as well as are the men. We are living in a day of turmoil, strife, and contention, I think nearly as bad as the world has ever seen. There may have been times worse, but I don't know of any other or reading of anything worse than what we are getting today—the violation of law, the selfishness of men, the greed, the ambitions, the turning away from faith in God. I think we are getting today, speaking of the world, in a very serious condition in relation to matters of that kind. Now it is my opinion, and I KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS OF OUR ETERNAL FATHER have a very strong opinion of that to that effect, that this world is rapidly reaching the point when the cup of iniquity will be full. I think that day of wickedness is rapidly drawing upon us. We need the help of our sisters, you good sisters of the Relief Society, to help us teach the principles of eternal truth just as well as we do the elders of the Church. You can teach it in your organizations. Our sisters need to be taught, many of them, just as well as do our brethren. We have sisters in the Church who are losing their faith. We have sisters who love the world more than they do the kingdom of God. There is plenty of work to do for the sisters of the Relief Society. Today there is a condition existing in this country among our youth, and something ought to be done as far as we are concerned to see if we can't keep them on the path of "light and truth [and] forsake that evil one." I hope that our good sisters of the Relief Society will join us in this effort, instead of going out to join clubs to play cards and waste their time while their children, perhaps, roam the streets. Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God. We should remember that. But here is our trouble... That wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth, through disobedience, from the children of men, and because of the traditions of their fathers (D&C 93:39). But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth (D&C 93:40). This is the commandment to the members of the Church. Now our sisters of the Relief Society can help in this matter, as can the other organizations, to see that the children of the Latterday Saints obey counsel, understand the truth, walk in its light, are taught to pray, and have a love for their fellow men. We don't want our sisters, because of responsibilities given to them in the organizations of the Church, to have to neglect their families. We don't want any sister in the Relief Society to have to attend her meetings and at the same time leave her children to run the streets. If her Church duties require her attention, then she should see to it that some provision is made to care for her children, if she has children, that they might be protected and taught to pray and be faithful and true, and brought up in light and truth. That is our responsibility. No, we do not want any sister to neglect her responsibility, but we do not want her to have to do it at the sacrifice of children by neglect, leaving them to find bad company or to be idle. Let us see to it that our children, if we are called into the ministry in this regard, are provided for, that they have protection. We are in a wicked world. I know there are good people in the world, yes. But the Lord says it is wicked, and if he says it is wicked, I think maybe I can, too, and [ think it is getting more so every day. We have many responsibilities, but none of them to cause us to neglect our homes. Now, you sisters, when you go home, teach your good sisters in stakes and wards to have a little more interest in revelations the 


 Lord has given us pertaining to our exaltation, and may the Lord bless you. I am grateful for you and for the work you are doing and for your loyalty, and for the integrity of these good sisters who preside and who direct you in your labors. The Lord has called this organization, as you all know, by prophecy, into existence for the building up and strengthening of his kingdom, along with the other organizations.