[Vol53 | December 1966 | Page 942 | General Feature | Homemaking . . . Don't Let Your Yearning Exceed Your Earning Celestia | J. Taylor]
HOMEMAKING MEETING — Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Don't Let Your Yearning Exceed Your Earning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To explain that credit wisely used can be a tool in assisting family income, but that it can be a hazard to family happiness Note: if over-extended. The material and principles in this discussion may need to be adapted to the culture and way of life in different areas of the world without, however, in any way changing the objective of the discussion. INTRODUCTION Latter-day Saints are counseled by Church leaders to stay out of debt. They are reminded of the serious problems and unhappiness caused by debt. Credit buying involves spending income before it is realized and, unless families use credit or installment buying wisely, they may find themselves in serious financial straits. No matter how carefully a family works out its financial management plan, there are times when it becomes necessary to use some form of credit. The very nature of modern economic structures, not only in America but in some other countries as well, is based on a system of credit. Monthly bills for telephone and utilities are standard practice, and many other services depend almost entirely on the policy of credit which is established between businesses and their customers. The ordinary commercial bank is organized primarily to give commercial credit as well as other services to their customers. Credit is used to establish con- 942 fidence in the ability, reputation, and character of an individual or a family. This is termed '"'credit rating," and it is essential to have in modern business practice. The self-supporting and selfsufficient family can use credit in emergencies and do so with a feeling of confidence and selfrespect. Yet for the greatest amount of satisfaction and peace of mind, credit, if necessary, should be used wisely as a tool in strengthening a family's ecoomic future rather than as a crutch to bolster an already overburdened financial structure. THE USE OF CREDIT Understanding the use of credit is essential if it is to be beneficial. Credit, when used, should be looked upon as a part of the whole family business plan determined by wise choices and decisions and harmonized to agree with the best reasoning of the group.

Although the use of credit increases the purchasing power and thus makes possible the pr: - vision of added goods or services, repayment for the amount bor- rowed or credit extended, together with interest for its use, must eventually be made. Credit is simply deferred payment and a payment which generally involves extra costs. For example: a refrigerator may be priced $219.00. If purchased on the installment plan the dealer may require a $20.00 down payment and $10.00 monthly payments for 24 months. Total credit cost 0 0 $260.00 Cash price --.--.---..---.--------- 219.00 Difference __ -.--.-.--2. E eee 41.00 The saving of $41.00 could be a significant factor in determining to save the money beforehand, and pay cash for the refrigerator. To use credit intelligently, the consumer must be sure that he is fully aware of the terms of the contract and that the satisfaction derived from its use is worth the price. The credit load should never be so heavy as to cause tension in the family during the repayment period. A_ thorough analysis of available types of credit or installment buying is necessary in order to choose the source that offers the best buy with the least hazard of extras: fees, penalties, salary assignments or possibilities of repossession of goods or property. In some instances there are no "carrying charges" or interest payments for credit extended for a year or less. It would be wise to contract for payments which will complete the purchase in less than a year. Many people do not know what credit costs; they only know how much the payments are per month. Learning to use credit in ways that contribute to individual and family happiness LESSON DEPARTMENT is the only real justification for its use. WHEN IS CREDIT JUSTIFIED The use of credit is never justified if repayments exceed the ability to pay. The ease of obtaining credit seems to make it difficult for some families to keep their spending consistent with their income. Many families who manage their finances well use credit for the purchase of necessary commodities and profit by doing so, while others are caught in a_ continual round of debt which they cannot control. What should be bought on credit — a house, a car, furniture? Is the desire to possess some commodity sufficient justification for its purchase? Discuss the dangers involved. One valid reason for using credit is to make possible additional earning power. Education, including training ln special fields and professions, is increasingly being financed by credit plans. The purchase of equipment for the carrying on of a profession or occupation would also be included in this category. To Discuss There are certain questions a family should be concerned about which, if answered honestly and realistically, can guide in making intelligent decisions about the use of credit. 1. Is the use of this credit worth the added cost to the family? 2. Can the family budget justly assume the credit loan? Can it meet the loan payments completely and on time? 3. Will this transaction be a good thing for the family as a whole? 4. Does the credit add a needed and essential utility or satisfaction? 5. Are the terms of the contract completely understood so that the transaction is free from unexpected penalties or hazards? 


 If the family cannot answer all of these questions in the affirmative, they may be sure that they are treading on dangerous ground and that it would be well for them to refrain from jeopardizing their future by the contracting of unjustifiable debt. Elder Thorpe B. Isaacson gave the following advice in an address delivered in General Conference, April 1963: It would be well if a man and his wife could sit down and go over their finances together, particularly pertaining to their indebtedness, and plan to get out of debt and not go in any deeper, unless they know there is a way in which they can repay their obligations. Women would do well to know more about their husbands' finances and to make sure that they have a sound fiscal policy in their own family. They would do well if they could save a little for the future, practice the law of thrift, not be extravagant and wasteful, and save a little of what they make and not spend it all. It would be well if a family could go without some things until they can afford them. List the Disadvantages and Advantages of credit buying. DISADVANTAGES You will be in debt! Cost of article is increased. Over-buying and extravagance are encouraged. Buyers sometimes feel less responsibility to the payment of their obligations when not paying cash. 5. Unforeseen emergencies may make repayment difficult. ~ ~ See ADVANTAGES 1. Buyer has use of article while paying for it. 2. Installment buying may encourage thrift in persons who do not save unless obligated to meet payments. 3. Some things may be acquired that otherwise would not be possible.