THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
FEBRUARY 1930

Relief Society Women--- Attention

After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department.

The Presidency of the Church, realizing the needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people.

The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys.

We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges.

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

For a HAPPIER NEW YEAR and many of them

at the dawn of a New Year * * * is the time for you to bring your home the supreme comforts of Natural Gas heat * * * heat that is clean, uniform, healthful, convenient and surprisingly economical.

For cooking, too, Natural Gas is the ideal fuel. Modern Natural Gas ranges are marvels of beauty and efficiency. Automatic Gas refrigerators, gas incinerators and automatic gas water heaters are other modern appliances for your comfort, health and convenience.

Plan now to start the New Year right and modernize your home with complete Natural Gas service.

Natural GAS The Ideal Fuel

Phone or write for information and free estimates

Utah Gas & Coke Co. SOUTH MAIN --- PHONE WASATCH 600 Salt Lake City

Ogden Gas Company Wasatch Gas Company (Branch Office) Phone Kaysville 200

Serving: OGDEN -- LAYTON -- FARMINGTON -- BOUNTIFUL -- CENTERVILLE -- MAGNA -- TOOELE -- GRANTSVILLE

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

SAFE From Clothes Line To Basket

The weekly washing represents an investment worth careful treatment. The most delicate garment is safe in the Maytag satin-smooth cast-aluminum tub. Even buttons are not harmed by the Maytag Roller Water Remover. The large, flexible top roll carefully and thoroughly squeezes out the soap and dirt that hides in the meshes of the clothes, and leaves no hard-to-iron wrinkles.

For homes without electricity, gasoline models are available

PHONE for a trial Maytag washing. If it doesn't sell itself, don't keep it. Deferred payments you'll never miss.

MAYTAG INTERMOUNTAIN CO. 211 South State Street Salt Lake City

Distributors

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

February, 1930

WINTER EXCURSION FARES

Via Southern Pacific Lines

To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning direct or route reversed $58.00

Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA.

STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS

For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE

PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008?3078

Instant Starting.... With

PEP '88' GAS with a PUNCH

WINTER'S HOTTEST GASOLINE

Here's the new winter gasoline that brings to your car a wonderfully improved cold-weather performance. Yet it costs no more than ordinary gasoline!

PEP '88' is the high quality, balanced, PEP gasoline you know so well, but made with a lower "initial boiling point" so that it starts quicker in cold weather. Try it. You won't need to use the choke so much.

All PEP dealers can supply you with PEP '88'. Look for the signs.

Manufactured and Guaranteed by UTAH OIL REFINING COMPANY, Salt Lake City

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made

CHILDREN'S ALLOVERS Khaki and White Khaki and Peggy Backed Denim for Clothes, Dutch Cut Boys For Girls

The Famous MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Give Splendid Satisfaction

Sego MILK

Such Delicious Puddings Sandwiches Pies Custards Creams

Good bread is the foundation of a good sandwich * * * and of good health, too. Try Long Royal. It is rich in nutriment, uniform in texture, wholesome and delicious in flavor!

All Grocers

LONG ROYAL

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

L. D. S. GARMENTS WINTER LINE

Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of winter wear:

No. 1 New style, ribbed light weight. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent Ladies number $1.25

No. 2 Old style, ribbed light weight and summer weight .75

No. 3 Ribbed med. weight. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number 1.00

No. 4 Ribbed heavy weight. Unbleached cotton. Our best selling double back number 2.25

No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number 3.00

No. 6 High grade rayon trimmed silk. For particular people $1.00

No. 7 Light weight. New or old style, mercerized?

No. 8 Ribbed heavy weight. Unbleached cotton and all wool. Our 50% wool number 3.25

No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only 2.50

No. 10 Medium weight. Silk for men and women, new style only 4.25

In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.

FACTORY TO YOU?THE ORIGINAL

Utah Woolen Mills Brigham Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates

Protection

Our stock of Nationally Advertised Food Products protects you in the selection of your favorite food items. By patronizing our stores, you can always be assured of receiving more for your money.

O. P. SKAGGS System Stores

ROTAREX WASHER

Convenient Terms

INTER-MOUNTAIN ELECTRIC CO. Was. 354 43-69 East 4th South Salt Lake City, Utah

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

L. D. S. GARMENTS

Good grade, and well made. In ordering state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady.

147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave $1.10

208 Light Weight Rib 1.35

32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Weight 1.30

222 Cotton Rayon Stripes 1.65

294 Ladies' New Style, Rayon 2.00

302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon 2.50

307 Men's New Style, Rayon 2.75

1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton 3.35

Postage prepaid. Sample on request.

BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah

258 Double Card. Cotton, Med. Weight. 1.35

628 Mercerized Lisle, Light Weight 1.65

264 Rayon Silk, Fine Quality 2.50

748 Unbleached Cotton, Heavy Weight 2.15

754 Bleached Cotton, Heavy Weight 2.25

908 Unbleached Cotton, Extra Heavy 2.35

DESERET UNDERWEAR MILLS 36 South Main Street

No. 160 A medium weight. Unbleached double back garment prevents breaking in the back $1.75

No. 260 Same weight. As above only bleached and without double back 1.75

No. 650 and 651 Heavy cotton garments made like above styles 2.15

No. 86 An unusually strong and long wearing ribbed light weight garments. New style 1.75

New Style or long legs .85

Old Style or long legs .95

No. 46 Light Weight Cotton 1.10

No. 67 Lisle 1.35

50% wool med. Weight 3.35

Heavy 3.85

All weights cottons and wool. Samples on request.

"CUTLER" MADE L. D. S. GARMENTS, 36 SOUTH MAIN STREET

L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory

You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. Made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.

No. 68 Light Cotton knee length $.75

No. 68 Old style or new style ? or long legs .85

No. 74 Ribbed light weight Cotton 1.10

No. 84 Ribbed Mercerized Lisle 1.35

No. 76 Ribbed light weight Lisle 1.64

No. 61 Ribbed Med. light Cotton 1.35

No. 62 Ribbed Med. Heavy Bleached 1.70

Fine Wearing Rayon, Elbow and Knee Length 2.35

Long Sleeves and Legs 2.85

No. 61 Ribbed Med. Heavy. Unbleached Double Back 1.75

No. 56 Ribbed Heavy Cotton bleached 2.15

No. 55 Ribbed Heavy Cotton, Unbleached Double Back 2.15

No. 27 Ribbed Med Weight. 50% Wool 3.35

No. 39 Ribbed Heavy Weight. 65% Wool 3.85

No. 32 Silk and Wool 4.50

WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75

SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS

In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.

SPECIAL?When you order three pair of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair.

Postage Prepaid. Marking 15c.

237-8 Constitution Bldg. 34 So. Main

GARMENTS LONG WEARING UNDERWEAR

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.

TROY LAUNDRY Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. Hyland 190

SACRAMENT TRAYS

NEW TRAYS FOR WATER GLASSES

A tray designed to give service and satisfaction. A tray every ward would be proud to own and display. The metal is Chromium plated and is guaranteed not to tarnish and it will always keep its lustre. The tray is light in weight and easy to handle. It will last indefinitely, it is very easy to keep clean and will always look just like new.

Now is a good time to replace your worn sets and add to your present sacrament sets with this new perfected tray and glasses.

The glasses used in this tray and for sale by us for your own trays are the best available. They are of lead composition, and have a bluish cast. They are less likely to break and will stand heat and cold much better than the ordinary glasses. These glasses are hand fashioned which insures uniformity of size and weight, thus allowing perfect balance in the tray.

PRICES (Note.?If cash in full accompanies the order, we pay transportation)

Water Tray with 3 dozen glasses complete?each $18.50

Glasses?Dozen 1.50

Manufactured for and sold exclusively by

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City

USE HUSLER'S FLOUR Made in SALT LAKE CITY

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

CONTENTS

20 Recompense Merling Dennis Clyde 54

Blizzard Alice Pierce Willardson 55

Portrait of Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood 56

Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Rose Jenkins Badger 57

Portrait of Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker 60

Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Ruth May Fox 61

Snowflakes Nina Eckart Kerrick 63

The Nutrition of the Child 64

Editorial?Tobacco 70

The Women in the Cage 71

Welfare Work of the League of Nations 72

Every Wednesday Evening Ivy Williams Stone 73

The Place of Woman in the Farm Home Dr. Thomas L. Martin 81

Notes from the Field

Guide Lessons for April

Books for the Family Lais V. Hales

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah

$1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c

Foreign, $1.25 a Year?15c Single Copy

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

Phone Wasatch 3123
VOL. XVII FEBRUARY, 1930 NO. 2
RECOMPENSE
First Poem to Receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest.
By Merling Dennis Clyde
I writhed in deepest agony. My mind Reached out to ask why I should thus endure This untold pain—this age-old cross. Oh, more: I fretted with the knowledge that mankind (And all of Nature's laws are so aligned) Demand that woman touch that unknown shore— Meet Death, yet safely bring the child she bore. But now, all dark and tortured hours combined Can never dim the glory that I know. The sacrifice became a cleansing power That robbed my beating soul of its unrest. Through utter pain came ecstasy. I go Content to live from shining hour to hour, Since I have felt sweet lips against my breast.
BLIZZARD
By Alice Pierce Willardson
Skies are distant, cold, and gray; Winds are hissing, raging, moaning Through a mist of icy turmoil; Snow in clouds is driven upward, Whipped from quiet into chaos, Dancing now in crazed confusion, Rests again in heaps and mounds. Winter, wild and lost and wailing, After all your moods and madness Shall we find the summer mild?

VOL. XVII FEBRUARY, 1930 No. 2
Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood
By Rose Jenkins Badger.
Hazel Agnes Hill Greenwood was born November 16, 1886 in Mill Creek, Salt Lake County. Her father, William H. Hill, who came here in pioneer days, was of Scotch descent, born in Canada. Her mother was Elizabeth Ann Hamilton. Hazel was the youngest of her father's children, eighteen in number. Of these, seven were her mother's.
I became acquainted with this wonderful family when Hazel was a little girl about eight years old. I was her teacher. When the weather was too severe to come into town at night, I stayed at the Hill home. It was a real privilege to become intimate with this family. One gets a peculiar and valuable training as a member of a large family where there is unity and love. One's nature is unconsciously broadened by learning in babyhood to get along with people, to adjust to others, to fit in readily; and certainly these traits are Hazel's.
Hazel began her schooling in the old frame school house of the 39th District School. Later for two years she attended the Granite Stake Academy. From there she went to the Latter-day Saints High School, from which she graduated in 1906. She was a regular attendant at Sunday School and Mutual. A spiritual awakening came to her while studying the Book of Mormon in Mutual under the leadership of Sister Marie Hazelman.
In the fall of 1907 her father died, and that same fall she began teaching. The first year she taught in Holliday; the three years following, in the 39th District where she first went to school. While teaching in Holliday she met Jacob C. Jensen, a young man of fine character, whom she married in 1910. The next year her son Grant was born. One year later typhoid fever robbed her of her young husband. This terrific blow was made bearable only
58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
by her faith. As he left her, she looked out across the fields where she had lived since babyhood, now drab and dismal to her. Said a friend to her, "Hazel, sorrow never leaves us where it finds us." Impressed by this remark, she said to herself, " I shall go back to the school room, but not to teach as I have done, merely to pass a few years away. I shall make of myself the best teacher I can become."
Thus began some busy years?teaching in the winter and studying in the summer. When she climbed the hill to the State University on a hot summer day, the remembrance of the happy, restful, summer afternoons on the farm would come to her. She would wish then that she had used them to better advantage, so that it would not be necessary for her to work so many hours now. By this means, however, she was able to get her life certificate for teaching.
To be a companion her mother gave up her home in Mill Creek and bought a home in the city, taking care of little Grant and making home cheerful and comfortable for Hazel, who was no less devoted as a daughter. In the death of her mother in 1916 sorrow again came to her. It is at such times that one's family is most appreciated. Her brothers and sisters most lovingly tried to help her to readjust her life. They insisted upon deeding the little home to her in addition to her full share in the other properties of her mother. A niece came to live with her to assume the household tasks that grandmother had been accustomed to perform.
Hazel kept her resolve to become the best teacher of which she was capable, doing her work efficiently and faithfully. She made a real home for herself and her boy, besides finding time to do considerable church work. Her experience extended to all the organizations except Religion Class. At this time she was living in the LeGrande Ward.
At the home of a friend she met Judge Joshua Greenwood, who was also a member of the LeGrand Ward. In 1921 Hazel and Elder Greenwood were married. He had two grown daughters at home. Hazel soon won their love, as the Judge gained the love of little Grant. A beautiful home life has been theirs. With the work of her clever fingers Hazel has beautified the house. The broad experience and trained intellect of the Judge have made him a most valuable help to her. He has always had a sympathetic interest in everything she has undertaken. Since her marriage to the Judge she has had the opportunity to travel. She has accompanied him on pleasure and business trips throughout Utah, California, the Northwest, New York and other cities of the East.
MRS. HAZEL H. GREENWOOD 59
Now began her Relief Society experiences. She first served as secretary in Liberty Stake, she next served as counselor to Sister Myrtle Shurtliff in the Presidency of the Stake. In 1925 she was made Stake President, resigning to become a member of the General Board. All persons who have worked with Sister Greenwood in the Liberty Stake agree that her leadership was outstanding. The qualities that contributed to this leadership were congenial personality and unusual tact. Good will and harmony was the prevailing tone of the board over which she presided, and as a result the cooperation was of a very high order, due in large measure to her own temperament.
She comes to her new position on the General Board, well trained, and with a deep-rooted love for the gospel. She loves Relief Society work. She is full of energy. Efficient, dependable. One of her co-workers says that under the most trying circumstance she is always good natured. As president of Liberty Stake, Sister Greenwood put over the Relief Society program in a strikingly intelligent manner. During the beautification campaign she concentrated on better and more beautiful Relief Society rooms. As a result of her work the meeting places for the Relief Society in the wards of Liberty Stake are conspicuous for comfort and good taste. She had her heart set on improving the class work of the Stake and in that project was very successful.
All Relief Society workers know that welfare work can hardly be approached let alone accomplished unless there is fine cooperation between the Bishops and ward Presidents and others who may be doing welfare work in the wards and stakes. Sister Greenwood was unusually successful in bringing about this cooperation. She also stimulated the reading of standard Church Works, the response to this idea being practically general.
In summarizing her work we would say: she exhibited the ability to maintain harmony among her workers; and was fearless in defending the right. She is in very deed a true daughter of her splendid pioneer parents and a worthy representative of a real Latter-day Saint family.
Mrs. Greenwood and Mrs. Kearnes Honored
Honoring Hazel H. Greenwood, their former well loved President, and Ovanda Kearnes, Welfare Class Leader, the Liberty Stake Relief Society Board entertained Saturday, January fourth. A prettily arranged luncheon took place at the home of Ruby Henderson on Michigan Avenue. All who had worked with Sister Greenwood on the Stake Board were guests. Between courses limericks written to the two honored guests were read and at the close of the luncheon gifts which were symbols of the love and esteem in which Sisters Greenwood and Kearnes were held, were presented to them. Liberty Stake wishes them success for the future.
MRS. EMELINE Y. NEBEKER
Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker
Ruth May Fox
"The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage." So sang the sweet singer of Israel, and well may the subject of this sketch cherish the song in her heart of hearts.
Emeline Young Nebeker was born in the Fourteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, September 27, 1875. Her father, Hyrum S. Young, was the son of the late President Brigham Young, of whom it is only necessary to mention his name to awaken in the minds of thousands of people memories of the marvelous accomplishments of that inspired leader. His mother, Emeline Free, was a charming woman of those early days.
Emeline's mother, Lucy Georgianne Fox, was the daughter of Jesse Williams Fox and Eliza Jerusha Gibbs. All the hardships, persecutions, and occasional romance of pioneer times are recalled with the names of these two people. Jesse Williams Fox is remembered as the first general surveyor of the territory of Utah and also as being one of the kindest and most unselfish of men, who might have made himself wealthy because of his opportunities to acquire choice tracts of land; but these he passed by saying: "Let poor men have it." In the veins of his wife, Eliza Jerusha Gibbs, Emeline's grandmother, ran the blood of the Carter family prominent in early church history. Her family, consisting of three sisters and a brother, were orphaned when quite young. They lived in Montrose and frequently crossed the great Mississippi to and fro between that town and Nauvoo, during those troublous times. The brother, Gideon Carter Gibbs, was in the battle at Far West when the Saints were ordered to stack their arms and deed away their property to the enemy. Eliza Jerusha, a girl of eighteen, crossed the plains i in 1848 in the same company with Jesse Williams Fox, who, by the way, had been her school teacher. Friendship ripened into love, so the two decided to marry while on their journey. They had their first wedding supper sitting on an ox yoke,, and spent their honeymoon wading streams, crossing deserts, and climbing mountains to an unknown land. Emeline's father, Hyrum S. Young, who for a long time was cashier of the Deseret National Bank, was a loyal son, a devoted husband, and an indulgent father, a gentleman in every 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sense of the word. Like her mother before her, Lucy Georgianne Fox was a gentle, kind, and hospitable woman, making friends of every one, especially the needy. She was one of the first women associated with the kindergarten movement in Utah, and became very active in that organization, holding meetings in her own home and assisting in organizing kindergarten groups. For many years she was counselor in the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society when Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams was president of that stake, holding that position when she passed away to a more beautiful sphere of action. Emeline was graduated from the normal school of the University of Utah in 1895 and taught four and one-half years in the public schools of Salt Lake City. She was also active in Sunday School work. In her choice of husband she was fortunate in joining hands with another notable pioneer family. Walter D., her husband, is the son of George Nebeker and Maria Dillworth. In the early 60's Mr. Nebeker was called to preside over the Hawaiian Mission and also to start the sugar industry in that then far-away land. His wife, Maria Dillworth went with him and taught school, having a group of native children for her pupils. An interesting incident is recalled in connection with this trip. Mr. And Mrs. Nebeker had both crossed the plains by ox teams; now they must journey to Sacramento in the same slow way, thus crossing the con- - tinent in that weary, dreary mode of travel. They rode the great Pacific on a sailing vessel. But lo, what a change! Five years later when returning to Salt Lake City they traveled from San Francisco with what appeared to them to be the speed of the lightning. The Great High Way had been completed. This visit, however, did not terminate Mr. Nebeker's mission. He returned to the Islands, remaining four years longer, making a mission of nine years in all. Since her marriage, as before, Emeline has been active in church organizations, having worked in the Primary, Mutual, and Relief Society. She has been ward president of each of these associations, also a stake officer in the Primary Association. At this writing she is president of the Twelfth-Thirteenth Ward Relief Society. Emeline is able to trace her lineage on both sides to that eventful war which won American independence; consequently she is a member of the Utah State Society of the Daughters of the Revolution, and she has held the position of regent in that Institution. Civic work also has claimed her interest, and she is now a director on the Community Chest Board. Emeline is the proud mother of two children, a son and a daughter. Both are attending school, the daughter in Junior High MRS. EMELINE Y, NEBEKER' 63 and the son majoring in history at the University of Utah. She has a lovely home and is a real home-maker, believing absolutely that home happiness is the greatest factor in a successful life. What more need be said? Up to the present she has filled her mission nobly. Her natural abilities, her activities, and the experience she has gained therefrom make her eminently fitted for the great work to which she has been called as a member on the General Board of the National Woman's Relief Society. ? SNOWFLAKES By Nina Eckhart Kerrick. See snowflakes in the air, Falling, falling, everywhere; In their crystal purity? Thoughts, by words sent forth on earth, Oft in sadnes, oft in mirth. Oft in just the quiet way That the snowflakes fall today, Beautiful and pure and Oh! It is God who made them so. He who send the snow from heaven To the world has also given Blessed thoughts, so pure, devine, Just to drift to earth and shine Like the snowflake as it lay Glistening on the ground today. The Nutrition of the Child (Prenatal and Postnatal) By Dr. L. L. Daines, University of Utah. In infancy, sickness and death are due largely to diseases, of the intestines and stomach and to acute respiratory diseases. There has been a remarkable decrease in the past few years in the death rate in infants from diseases of the intestines and stomach, mainly because we have a better knowledge of the proper diets for children. For the welfare of the child clean heredity is not the only thing to be seriously considered during the prenatal period. While the twelve months before the child is born is the period most neglected in regard to his care and feeding, we are learning a great deal concerning what can be done then to guard his welfare in a physical way. Diseases From Prenatal Conditions. Breast milk is often deficient in the essential inorganic salts, as well as in vitamins?a fact that undoubtedly explains, at least partially why some breast-fed infants suffer from rickets, scurvy, goitre, etc. It seems safe to assume that the blame for this condition lies in improper prenatal maternal feeding. Evidence is accumulating that the need of calcium and phosphorus for bone building are greatest in foetal life. The calcification of the first teeth is said to begin early in the prenatal period; while calcification of the second or p?rmanent set begins some time before birth. The mother who at this time, is willing to include in her food goodly quantities of these essential things is going far toward insuring the proper development of her child. Another inorganic substance that is commonly lacking is iodine?a condition often completely neglected in the diet of the prenatal period. Dr. Robert Olesen, in Public Health Service, says: "During the prenatal period, iodine should be administered under the direction of the medical attendant, thereby preventing the development of goitre in the child as well as in the mother." The inorganic salts and vitamins needed by the foetus or the nursing infant cannot be built up in the mother's body; they must be obtained from her food or from the store of such substances in her own body tissues. Diet For Infants In the case of artificially fed infants, it is of course just as THE NUTRITION OF THE CHILD 65 essential to concern ourselves with all these necessary elements. While many of the serious disturbances of digestion in infants are due to bacterial contamination of food, still perhaps as many, or more, such disturbances are due to improper balancing of the infant's food. The pediatrician, or specialist in children's diseases, can usually correct these conditions by a careful adjustment of the proteins, fats and carbohydrates. In proper hands, this is one of the most fruitful fields in the prevention and treatment of human disease. It seems safe to say that a large proportion of the decrease in infant mortality is due to the intense interest that is being taken in foods and nutrition by the general public as well as by the medical profession. There never has been a time when so many people have been interested in foods and nutrition as now. This is because the importance of a proper diet for health and long life is more apparent than in the past. In determining a proper diet, many things must be considered, such as the right kinds and proper amounts of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Mineral salts make up a very necessary part of the diet. It is desirable to give attention to the things that will stimulate the appetite; and we must carefully supply a sufficient amount of indigestible material to keep up the proper tone of the intestinal muscles. * Substances Essential For Health Recently there have been discovered five or six substances. Whose presence in the food is necessary for health, for the proper physical development, and for the propagation of the race. Because nothing is yet known of their chemical nature, they are assigned letters of the alphabet. The first to be discovered was vitamin C. This substance is present in milk and fresh uncooked vegetables and fruits, especially in orange, lemon and tomato juice, when these are ripened in the field. It is sensitive to boiling and even the temperature of pasteurization of milk, if air is present during the process, destroys it. Its absence from food for any length of time results in the development of a definite and serious disease called scurvy. This disease in infants occurs especially in babies who receive for many months a diet limited to heated cows milk, with or without cereal addition. These babies grow pale and fretful, fail to gain in weight, give evidence of tenderness of the limbs, and perhaps bleeding of the gums. It is decidedly possible that in lighter cases, many of the so-called "growing pains" may be evidences of this disease. The greatest danger lies in the fact that a marked susceptibility to infections is associated with this nutritional disturbance. It has recently been determined that it is not the heat that 66 ? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mainly destroys this vitamin but the oxidation that generally accompanies the process. If milk or other food is heated with but little access of air during the process, almost all of the vitamin is preserved. As a result of this knowledge it has recently been learned how to preserve vegetables and fruits so that they retain their antiscorbutic properties throughout the winter season. Even dried milk contains this factor in almost undiminished amount. This is due to the fact that dried milk is not subject to oxidation in its preparation. The Water-Soluble Vitamins. The next to be discovered was water-soluble vitamin B. This is now considered to be a complex and will probably be called vitamins F. And G. It is present in milk, fresh vegetables, the hulls of cereals, in yeast, eggs and glandular meats, such as liver and kidneys. The absence of this vitamin complex from the diet permits the development of both Beri-beri and pellegra. Of far greater importance to us, however, is the fact that both these substances in vitamin B. Are essential to growth. Several workers have repeatedly demonstrated the marked effect of this vitamin on the appetite. While often referred to as "growthpromoting," this vitamin, like each of the others, is essential to normal nutrition at all ages. This vitamin is not destroyed by boiling unless too liberal amounts of soda are added to the food during the process of cooking. The third is fat soluble vitamin A. It is present in butterfat, milk, eggs, and fresh green vegetables. It is found in the green leaves of plants and in general these are much richer in this vitamin than are other organs of the plant. The pale inner leaves of headed lettuce and cabbage are not nearly so rich as are the green outer leaves. Recent careful work has shown that the green plant tissues other than leaves, used as food in the form of string beans and green peppers are, like the green leaves, rich in vitamin 'A. McCollum found that by depriving an animal of vitamin A, a serious condition of the eye and other complications arise. Although this is important in times of war and famine, \when there is the most serious lack of these vitamins, under more normal conditions the chief interest in vitamin A, centers around its importance in promoting growth as well as in being a regulatory substance. Several investigators have emphasized the fact that respiratory diseases are more frequent among experimental animals whose food is relatively poor in vitamin A. A liberal allowance of this vitamin certainly tends toward a higher degree of health and vigor; and when more is consumed than is needed, the body t THE NUTRITION OF THE CHILD 67 has power to store the surplus and hold it available for future use. This has been found to be strikingly true both of young animals and of adults. That vitamin A plays an extremely important part in the nutrition not only of the young but also of the adult, is now well established. Experiments by Sherman and McLeod in feeding two parallel groups of rats two types of diets, one rather low and the other fairly high in vitamin A, gave the very interesting result that the group given the liberal allowance of vitamin A lived on the average a little over twice as long as those on the diet equally good in all other respects but lower in vitamin A. This vitamin is relatively stable under the conditions generally maintained in the cooking of foods. Rickets and Vitamin D. Vitamin D is correlated with the development of rickets in children and has therefore been called the antirachitic vitamin. It is present in large amounts in cod-liver oil, and occurs in small quantities in butter-fat and the yolk of eggs. Rickets can be cured or prevented by exposure to summer sunshine or to ultraviolet rays, provided the sunshine is not robbed of its necessary properties as in passing through ordinary window glass. It has been shown that the ultra violet irrodition of oils, in themselves not antirachitic, or cholestero, produces a substance identical with, or metabolically equivalent to, vitamin D. The insolation of this compound has recently been claimed. The development of rickets depends on an unsatisfactory relation among three dietary factors?calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D?and of sunlight. The results of recent experiments emphasize the fact that the outstanding feature of the disease is an incorrect metabolism of phosphorus rather than of calcium, and that this condition is brought about by insufficient amount of both vitamin D. And sunshine. Rickets is a disease of infancy. After the first two years of life, children become rapidly insusceptible to its development. The essential feature of the disease is a defect in the development of bone. This leads to deformity?to abnormal enlargement of the ends of the bones, and to distortion due to bending, owing to lack of resistance of the bone to the body weight. It is caused also by muscular tension and atmospheric pressure. Features of Rachitic Diseases Bow-legs, knock-knees, enlarged joints, flat or deformed chests, and abnormal conformations of the skull, are all the result of failure by the bones to develop in a normal manner. These defects alone do not endanger the life of the infant. Only in severe cases are there permanent distortions and mechanical dis- 68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ability. The disease presents, however, in addition to these defects in bone growth, other features indicating a general disturbance of nutritional processes. There is marked anemia, flabby musculation, and impairment of digestive function. Rachitic children are predisposed to dangerous gastro-intestinal disturbances and readily contract infectious diseases, especially those of the respiratory tract. Since rickets is so widely prevalent it is indirectly responsible for a large part of infant mortality. Findley in a recent survey of rickets says: "In England, as in most civilized countries, rickets-is one of the most common diseases of children. Further, it is probably the most potent factor in interfering with the efficiency of the race. It not only stunts the growth and causes deformities, some of which greatly increase the dangers of child-bearing, but it raises considerably the mortality rate of such diseases as measles and whooping cough." It should be said that in order to suffer serious injury from any of these so called deficiency diseases, it is not necessary to have frank or severe cases of them. Scurvy and rickets, for example, may do serious damage without symptoms that would be readily recognized. In pointing out the great importance of the vitamin D. (calcium-phosphorus combination in the proper development of the teeth) McCollum says: "While commendable as a general hygienic measure, mouth hygiene has little if anything to do with the preservation of the teeth. All measures hitherto proposed which stress cleanliness and prompt repair do not get at the root of the evil. The development during very early life of a sound set of teeth is the most important factor in preventive dentistry." A Cause of Sterility In Animals Recently a remarkable series of experiments has been published, setting forth the probability of another vitamin that is essential in preventing sterility in animals. It was found that on certain diets rats could grow to full maturity and appear normal, but were incapable of reproduction. This condition can be cured or prevented by a change in the dietary program. This change involves the addition of certain single natural foods high in a new food factor, vitamin E: or the addition of much smaller amounts of extracts of these foods. This vitamin is found most abundantly in the lipoid extracts of cereal grains, but is abundant also in various leafy vegetables. Additional work has recently shown that young animals nursing from mothers deprived of this vitamin develop paralyses. THE NUTRITION OF THE CHILD 69 The Best of Foods What foods, then, are important in furnishing these essential food factors? It is chiefly because of their outstanding importance as sources of vitamin A as well as calcium and the complete nature of their proteins that McCollum has designated milk and the green vegetables as the protective foods. In view of this fact, a Committee on Nutritional Problems appointed by the American Public Health Association emphasizes the importance of including milk in the daily diet to the extent of at least a quart for every child and not less than a pint for the adult. Sherman says that the standard of a quart of milk in some form every day should be maintained at least up to the age of 14 years. In order to get an adequate supply of vitamin C, uncooked fruits and vegetables must be included in the diet. Foodstuffs suitable for human consumption are, almost without exception, deficient in the antirachitic vitamin D. Butter and egg-yolk are the only common foods which have been shown to contain appreciable amounts. Cod-liver oil and sunshine have a marked protective as well as curative influence. The glandular organs, such 'as liver, kidney, and sweetbread or pancreas, are extremely rich in vitamins as compared with, other parts. The mucle meats and cereals are very poorly supplied except for vitamin E. Milk, leafy vegetables, fresh uncooked fruits and vegetables, eggs, butter, cod-liver oil, and grandular meats are our protective foods, and they furnish in addition appetite stimulating substances and the necessary calcium and phosphorus as well as other minerals. Apparently, too much of these important food factors cannot be taken. The American Public Health Association's Committee on Nutritional Problems says in its report: "Of total food (calories) we can advantageously use only a little more than we actually need; but in recent experiments with vitamins, intakes of several-fold the amounts demonstrably needed have shown no danger, but on the contrary have proved distinctly advantageous. As with fresh air, we can exist without conspicious injury on relatively little, but we can use advantageously a many-fold, larger allowance, generally as much as we can conveniently get." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ON - - -. -. - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN MILD - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. Z. - - General Secretary, and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Em Mrs. Gora L. Bennion Mrgs. Elise B. Alder Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Inez a Alten Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynoldgy Smith Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs, Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood; Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = - - -: - - - - - - Alice Louise Reynolds Manager - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - Amy Brown Lyman Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Uta Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt. Lake City, Utah VOL. XVII FEBRUARY, 1930 No, 2 EDITORIAL Tobacco A recent report published in the daily papers of the State, shows a marked increase in the sale of tobacco in Utah during the past year. We wish we could be sure that no women of the State were adding to this increase. Particularly are we anxious on behalf of women who have been reared in Latter-day Saint homes and have been taught the value of the Word of Wisdom. Yet reports occasionally come to us that seem to indicate that Latter-day Saint women are not 100 per cent strong on this point. Last year a public official refused to eat at a restaurant in one of our towns south of Salt Lake because he said women smoking there offended him. As the population of that town is overwhelmingly Latter-day Saint, the chances are that some of the women who gave offense to that official are from Latterday Saint homes. One of the amazing facts of recent years is the way women have taken up smoking and we regret to say that frequently these women have been encouraged by their husbands to smoke. There are persons in official positions who think it just as intolerant to bar 4 woman from teaching because she smokes as because she has short hair or skirts of the prevailing length, but we are not of EDITORIAL 71 that opinion. We think smoking is a habit that interferes with physical, mental, and spiritual growth, and that it is detrimental to motherhood. Recently a group of American scientists were making their way by train through Continental Europe. A woman was with the men in one of the non-smoking compartments. She was a smoker, and consequently grew restless. She offered the gentlemen cigarettes, which they refused, saying, they did not smoke. She replied to their refusal, "This is embarrassing; do you mind my smoking?" This certainly looks like a case of tables turned; as we view it,?turned in the wrong direction. Not long ago a woman riding on one of our railroads, found herself the victim of her own bad habit. She wanted to smoke; she said she had to smoke, but added, "If I do, I shall give offense to every man and woman on this train". However she went into the smoker and began to smoke, and, as she had anticipated, there was a fuss. The conductor said that every woman in the car was scolding him for letting her smoke. She certainly was unpopular in that company, and very much to be pitied. Perhaps she took up with this undesirable habit by associating with men and women who urged smoking, and led her into it. Hence her trouble. Compared to the embarrassment of this woman the perverbial fish out of water is to be envied. We trust that Utah standards will not break down. Let us hold the line, even as the French held it at Verdun. "Thou shalt not pass," is as important a slogan in the spiritual realm as it ever could be in the realm of the physical., The Women in the Case In our New Year's issue we paid tribute to President Herbert Hoover and Premier Ramsey MaDonald. These two men deserve the support and confidence of all people who believe in the possibility of a better world?a world no longer torn by national prejudice or by such strife as wars are made of. And here we wish to pay tribute to the women who are officially hostesses for these two great men. Lou Henry Hoover is a college trained woman with fine American traditions behind her. She is socialized in the real sense. For years those close to her know how sincere have been her efforts to better untoward conditions in the world, and how generously she has given of her means to foster such movements. The Twentieth Century with its program of betterment for children and peace for humanity has in her an intelligent and sympathetic supporter. The hostess of Premier Ramsey MacDonald is his daughter, Ishbel, a very serious minded young woman interested first of all in social work. While in America with her Father, she spent 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE much of her time in settlements and other places where up-to-date social work is being done. She and her father attended a social work Conference in New York City; afterwards they were guests of Miss Lillian Wald of Henry street Settlement fame, of the Settlement Workers' Home in Saugatuck, Connecticut. This is the second time Miss MacDonald has been her father's hostess at No. 10 Downing Street. During Mr. Stanley Baldwin's term of office she devoted herself very actively to Social Work in England. Surely the world is growing better. It is a far cry from the time when the poor little ignorant Queen of France, Marie Antonette, hearing the murmurings of the mob in front of the Palace, asked why they were protesting; when told that they were asking for bread, she exclaimed, "Why don't they eat cake?" Mrs. Hoover and the young Miss MacDonald are each zealous that their grasp of present day situations shall be in a high degree intelligent and comprehensive. Welfare Work of the League of Nations Social workers the world over will be interested in knowing of the Welfare Work that has been done by the League of Nations during the ten years of its existence. For that reason we include the following account of Welfare Work as published by the New York Times, January 5, 1930: "The League health organization, and especially its conference at Warsaw in 1922, attended by twenty-eight States, including Russia and Turkey, has been a most powerful influence in preventing the spread of epidemics from Eastern Europe and laying down principles of international health control. The League's conference on the protection of children and the traffc in women have created legislation in various States checking cruelty and immorality and educating world opinion. One of its most humane works was the repatriation of 500,000 war prisoners who still despaired behind their barbed wire four years after the armistice. Another was its rescue of Russian refugees and other victims of war and revolution. In this work the American Red Cross gave generous help. A committee of the League was appointed in 1924 to secure more efficient suppression of slavery and forced labor among primitive peoples and its conventions have been signed by fortysix states. The Opium Commission has not yet succeeded in restricing the traffic in that drug owing to the fortunes gained by the evasion of regulations. The absurdity of the passport system in Europe and its constant annoyance to travelers have been lessened by representations from Geneva to various governments. Every Wednesday Evening By Ivy Williams Stone. At three o'clock on Wednesday afternoon Nancy Ware was hurrying to finish her ironing. There remained only the rompers, six pairs of them for the sturdy, robust twins, also the baby's creepers. The dish towels and sheets, smoothly folded, but unironed, were piled on the table. The sink was full of milk bottles and unwashed dinner dishes. Little ripples of lint lay under the ironing board and around the table legs. Baby Jean had been fretful with her teeth, and the boys had run away. Now, in the temporary peace caused by the three little sleepers, Nancy ironed with desperate haste. She had to get through. The kitchen must be cleaned and the dining room dusted. Most good housewives would have ?heir ironings finished by Tuesday evening. Thus pondered Nancy, as the iron sputtered over 4 wax crayon in a coverall pocket. But perhaps they did not have three babies; and besides, it was her birthday. The icecream was ripening in the basement, and the cake only lacked icing. John would be sure to bring her a gift, and they would have a family celebration. Nancy hurriedly pressed the last coverall. She was leaning over to disconnect the iron when the doorbell rang with an insistence that would have awakened the sleeping babies, had it not been muffled. "Company," muttered Nancy, pulling a wry face. "Of all times!" Brushing a lock of moist hair from her forehead, she hastened to answer. There stood a Personage, who in contrast to Nancy's flushed appearance could only be called "The Cool Lady." From her perfect fresh marcel to the tips of her new tan slippers she reflected a study in personal care. "How do you do, Nancy?" The voice was musical, -perfectly modulated. "Why," floundered Nancy, struggling to place this face in the mental gallery of people she used to know. "May I come in?" A hand as white as any lily of the field opened the screen; and with a faint odor of delicate perfume, the Cool Lady entered the clean but toy-strewn room. One rocker held a set of tinker toys, another a sand dumper; while a set of blocks littered the floor. Nancy hurriedly cleared a chair and thrust it toward her guest. "O Henrietta Long," she cried triumphantly, "Where, oh where, did you drop from? Why, I haven't seen you since we graduated!" "Not since that June night when you successfully screened 74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE John and me while we sat out a dance I cut with funny little Laffy Myers. Have you ever seen him since? I'm spending the summer with Grandma Long. Remember, I lived with her when I went to High." "And John and I have been married seven years,' mused Nancy. 'Have you. Ever?" "Never," supplied Henrietta. "Guess you think my name has been Long long enough. But I went to France as a war worker. Since then I've been teaching home economics in High School." A turn of the beautiful hands revealed nails polished and manicured to perfection. Truly Henrietta was beautiful; didn't look a day older either, except that she had a touch of arch poise. As Nancy surveyed the waxwhite profile, the drooping lids, the charming mouth, she was acutely aware that her own hands bore the stains of recent apple jelly. She knew her nails hadn't been polished for months, that her marcel was nearly gone. She was swept with an inferiority complex. She felt a surging return of the old, inexplicable resentment which Henrietta used to create. She had always seemed so superior. She had always conveyed the opinion of having the most dresses, the newest styles, the highest grades, the most beaux. How well Nancy remembered the eventful evening Henrietta had just sketched. She had been beautiful in her flowered mulle, long, of course, with three-quarter sleeves. She had always possessed a way of making the boys curious. Over little nothings, and her programs were always full. There had been an odd little fellow in their class?Lafayette Myers. But because he was queer and lived among the retorts and bottles of the chemistry laboratory, everybody called him "Laffy." Somehow he had managed a dance with Henrietta and she had cut it?and sneaked out on the balcony with John. Nancy's John! That, of course, long before he had noticed those sterling qualities which made Nancy a most desirable life companion. Laffy Myers had been unable to find Henrietta. So, after his near-sighted eyes had traversed the hall twice, he had sat the dance out with Nancy. She had been obliged to appear interested in his technical explanations of blue liquids in retorts and of the antidote for something he expected to perfect.: Nancy fancied she could still see his rapt expression, the skrewed-up face, the blinking eyes behind the thick lenses. All the time Myers had talked and Nancy had pretended to listen, she could hear Henrietta's subdued laughter from the balcony. Henrietta had really expected too much! As she faced her graceful, smiling guest, all these memories in kaleidoscopic array flashed across Nancy's mind. Henrietta's delicate yellow silk heightened the whiteness of her skin. In EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING 75 contrast Nancy compared her own housedress to sack-cloth and ashes. Suddenly Henrietta sniffed and puckered her nose. "I smell, smell something burning," she said. "Oh my gracious!" cried Nancy, dashing kitchenward. "I forgot the iron!" Henrietta followed the precipitated Nancy. They found the cloth charred under the iron, but otherwise no harm done. "Are you ironing?" queried Henrietta. "Why Grandma and I finished ours Monday afternoon. Mustn't get slack, Nancy!" "I was just finishing when you rang," defended Nancy.. "Oh, no!" contradicted Henrietta, "you weren't finished. All these sheets and teatowels?" "I don't iron them," countered Nancy. "They are healthier sun kissed. All doctors claim that." "I'll iron them," announced Henrietta with finality. "They'll look so beautiful you'll want them so always. Tidy up your sink and get your dinner started. I believe I'll stay and see old John." "We have dinner at noon. But we'll be glad to have you eat supper with us, Henrietta. It's my birthday, and John will be delighted to see you." "The nicest people," added Henrietta, moving the iron with snail-like speed over the first hem of the first sheet, "The people who care, have dinner at six and lunch at noon. Supper is obsolete."' "But John can't sleep if he eats heavily at night;" and Nancy, washing dishes with lightning rapidity, felt the old sweeping resentment rising within her. Henrietta should not remodei the customs of their home with her notions on etiquette. ' Nancy finished the kitchen, dusted the dining room, cleared the litter of toys from the living room, before Henrietta reached the last hem of the fourth and last sheet. Nancy put away the coveralls and, unobserved, tucked the unironed teatowels into their proper drawer. After all, one must be courteous to the guest. "Let me put away the board." she offered. Henrietta relinquished the iron with no protest, making no inquiry about the missing towels. "I do feel rather fatigued," she admitted. "Strange how strenuous work weakens one!" The babies awakened and Nancy cuddled and mothered each one in turn. Then, while baby Jean drained her bottle, the boys were dressed in white suits. Presently two sturdy, fine specimens of future manhood stood before Henrietta. "Now" thought Nancy with pardonable pride, "Henrietta can't brag of nicer children than ours." "You should dress them in colors, Nancy, never white." "But white boils clean." began Nancy, then stopped. Why argue with Henrietta? She always would be superior. 76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "White," continued Henrietta, as if addressing a class in sewing, is a difficult color for even the very beautiful to wear." Here one of the twins poked an inquisitive finger toward the pale yellow silk. "Oh don't let him touch me," she cried. "He'll spoil my gown." Thus admonished, little John took refuge behind Nancy ~ and cast frightened glances toward the cool lady. Nancy hurried to prepare the meal. Supper or dinner?at least they must eat; the best linen and the sterling silver; Haviland china for the three adults; heavier ware for the boys, with a baby plate for Jean. "Why don't you give your boys the good china too?" queried Henrietta, surveying the table critically. "They can't be trusted yet," replied Nancy determined not to become ruffled. "Since the war, you can't match the better china." "Teach your children a love for the beautiful and they will treat it accordingly," chanted Henrietta in a class-room voice. "Children must be trained to handle good dishes. You should have used a boiled icing on your cake, Nancy." Nancy thought of the time little John threw his spoon and shattered her one piece of Tiffany cut glass. She also thought of the pale yellow silk he had been forbidden to touch, and smiled silently. Six o'clock brought John, carrying a confectioner's box. Nancy, looking sweet and happy in her pink frock, smiled joyously at his greeting. Thoughtful John, who never forgot! "Sweets to the sweet, Mrs. Ware," he called, extending his gift, "even if you are thirty and married." He bent to kiss her but Henrietta, who had slipped behind the door, now stepped, between them. "Not in public," she reproved archly, "it isn't good form. How do you do, Johnny? My, but you're fat!" "Why Ritta," cried John Ware, seizing her hand with what seemed to Nancy over zeal. "This is a pleasant surprise. From where, what to and why?" alte John and Henrietta the meal was food with memories. Nancy, feeding the baby and serving the boys, found little opportunity to eat. "Do you remember the time you and I cut Latin and went rowing?' queried Henrietta, tapping John familiarly with her cake fork. "You mean played hooky and got all wet on the raft?" counted John. 'This is sure some cake, Nancy. Mind if I have another piece?" "It would have been better with boiled icing," persisted Henrietta, nibbling daintily. John stopped eating and shot a quick glance at Henrietta, EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING 77 then on to Nancy. Then a queer little smile puckered his lips and he almost whistled. "Do you remember the time I sprained my ankle and you practically had to carry me home?" "Um-Hum?" mumbled John eyeing the last piece of cake. "Do you remember," continued Henrietta with her old gaiety and air of mystery, "the time you coaxed me to cut Laffy's dance and hide with you on the balcony? Wasn't the moon georgeous and the lilacs heavy with perfume?" "I remember old Laffy sitting the dance out with Nancy? made me sore," mumbled John, his mouth not quite empty. "Help me up," commanded Henrietta. "Let's go sample Nancy's candy." Nancy had already risen with baby Jean in her arms. But Henrietta sat still, holding out her hand toward John who, finally understanding, gave her a none too gracious assistance. Nancy went to the bedroom; Henrietta, with never a glance toward the disheveled table, led the way to the living room. As John passed, he picked up his still unopened newspaper. "Oh, you mustn't read with guests around," admonished Henrietta, "it isn't done." As Nancy undressed the two little boys, a service usually performed by a proud father, she heard the crackling of paper as Henrietta unwrapped the precious box of candy. There was not room for many boxes of candy in their strict budget. As she tried to quiet the fretful little Jean, Henrietta's voice drifted in, musical and modulated, but always beginning, "Do you remember, Johnny?" How he loathed the term Johnny. Finally peace reigned among the three little sleepers and. Nancy tiptoed out. Henrietta had moved beside John on the divan and emphasized the high points of her reminiscences with little taps on his arm or knee. "I was surely surprised when that French Colonel kissed me and pinned the medal. Ah, Nancy, your candy was wonderful. John has a good memory. He used to buy the same kind for me!" "I really must be going," she added, "beauty sleep comes before midnight." She looked significantly at John who had slid to the far edge of the divan and was stealthily reading the headlines. "I'll walk a ways with you," smiled Nancy. "The air will do me good, and it gets rather dark before you reach the arc light." "But you'll be afraid to come back," reasoned Henrietta. "It's not modern, I know, but I still feel safer with an escort." 'At this direct hint John dropped his paper and rose hurriedly. "Come on," he said, "I'll get you there in a hurry." "Do come again," urged Nancy, who felt she could and should be nice to Henrietta. After all, her life was narrow. 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "I'd love to. I'll be here all summer. Suppose we say every Wednesday evening? I'll enjoy old friends?old memories. Thanks, Nancy." As they went down the walk Nancy turned toward the library table. The box contained little frilled cups and crumpled tinsel, but not one piece of candy. She was clearing the table when John returned shortly after. He was whistling and radiant. "Helloo, Mrs. Ware," he bantered, "was your candy good?" "You and Henrietta," began Nancy. "Henrietta only," contradicted John. "TI ate only a chocolate nut. That girl is some whiz with sweets. Wonder she isn't sick. But she offered to teach me golf, so I won't get too heavy. She's keeping her looks, though, in spite of time. You'd better have your hair curled again to-morrow, hadn't you?" "Say," he called from the bedroom after the dropping of one shoe and before the falling of its mate, "Henrietta told me what's become of that little old Laffy Myers. He's got a job in the experiment lab. At the State U. He married, and had two pairs of twin boys. Then his wife died. Think I'd stay in the lab. Too!" finished John. Thereafter for ten strained weeks Nancy's life became one round of getting ready for Wednesday evenings and clearing up afterwards. Each week Henrietta came fresh and resplendent in a different gown. Each week she suggested new dishes and desserts ?all expensive in ingredients, time consuming in their preparation, and unsuited to the diet of growing babies. Somehow, Nancy got her laundry out of the way by Tuesday evening. She managed to have her hair marceled weekly. Each Wednesday evening found the Ware home clean and tidy, the table set with the best linen and china. As always in the old. School days, Henrietta had her way. At first John was interested in the prospective golf lessons. But when he learned the price of sticks and club dues, his enthusiasm waned. "Can't cut it this year," he negatived Henrietta's urgings, "got too many little shoes to buy." So Henrietta brought a checkerboard. While Nancy sang strained lullabyes to the teething Jean, Henrietta and John became absorbed in the intricacies of kings and double corners. Every evening John had to walk home with Henrietta. And Nancy, washing the delicate china with dangerous haste, yielded to the insidious encroachings of jealousy. John was staying a trifle later each Wednesday evening. He seemed less his buoyant self. He was impatient with the babies, reserved toward Nancy. On the tenth Wednesday night he was unusually late. The dishes were washed, three little sets of clothes were arranged for EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING 79 the morning, and Nancy was setting the table for breakfast when he arrived. He looked elated, like a person who has finished a set, odious task. '"Where's the paper? Late, as it is, I'll read the headlines." He dropped his shoes in the living room and stretched out contentedly on the divan. The next week was an unhappy one for Nancy. Stung by jealousy she attached grave meanings to John's every look or action. Her mirror revealed swollen eyes and occasional tears sizzled on the iron as she hurried through this odious task. She dared not seek advice, urged by pride to keep her misgivings to herself. Good John, unsuspecting John, like clay in Henrietta's clever. Hands! Finally, after wakeful nights, Nancy devised a plan of defense. He sent the washing to the laundry. She hired Edna Watts, who wanted odd jobs, to tend the babies and clean the house. There- ~ upon Nancy went shopping. She choose a dress as elaborate as any Henrietta had flaunted, with slippers and hose to match. She had her hair trimmed, shampooed and marceled. When she left the shop, her finger nails were brilliantly polished. For once the terms of their budget were flagrantly disregarded. In her marketing she selected an elaborate meal. She would keep Edna to help serve, watch the babies, wash the dishes. She, Nancy, would stay in the parlor and be a member of the walking home party. She would learn, first hand, the important things Henrietta had to say to John.. Turning a corner hurriedly, she encountered a little man. A very diminutive man with skrewed-up face and doubly thick lens in his glasses. "Excuse me," he muttered apoligetically, "I did not see you!" Nancy's reply was a spontaneous laugh. "Why Laffy Myers, where did you come from? And what brings you to this old town again?" "Upon my word, Nancy!" The little man seemed glad to see again a familiar face. "You haven't changed a bit. I'm snatching a two-day vacation, and ran down to meet an old friend. Can't take longer. You remember that antidote I once told you I was perfecting? Well, it's almost perfected. I've tested it on several forms of animal life and it responds beautifully. Really, Nancy, I'm so engrossed. It will mean the saving?" "How about your babies?your children?" demanded Nancy, more concerned over the welfare of babies than the saving of, poisoned adults. "Oh--yes." The tone lost its enthusiasm. "That's what brings me to see this old friend.. They must be cared for." He made the excuse of haste and hurried on. Nancy, watch- 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ing the retreating form, thought of the motherless boys whose father had no time for their care. Then her thoughts reverted again to her own problems, the memory of Laffy Myers fading with the cares of her own day. Five-thirty found Nancy ready and expectant. The flush of conflict made her cheeks becomingly pink! The new gown certainly made her look younger. The house was clean, the children spotless, the table perfect. Nancy sat down to await the coming of her husband and guest. At six-thirty John arrived with a confectionar's box under his arm. "Gosh, Nancy, but you look nice," he commented. Then reaching for the paper he stretched out full length on the divan and kicked off his shoes. Nancy sat puzzled. Why didn't he dress for dinner? Henrietta would be here any minute. There was a tiny round hole jn the toe of John's sock. If he didn't get it covered, Henrietta would comment on the duty of wives! John finished the paper and sat up inquiringly. Supper ready?" he grinned. "Why yes," answered Nancy. "Long ago. But you wouldn't eat without your guest, would you? This is Wednesday, you know." John stared incredulously, then understanding slowly dawned upon him. | Have you cooked dinner for Henrietta'? He demanded. "Do you mean to tell me you don't know?" "T know nothing except that Henrietta comes to dinner every Wednesday evening. I have tried to prepare a nice dinner for your friend?" "My friend," scoffed John. She never was my friend, except in her own mind. What you've had her here all summer for, beats me. Making me take her home nights when my feet ached and J wanted to read the paper. Last time I yawned in her face three times before she got through asking for advice and guidance." "Advice? What for?' gasped Nancy, half stupidly, half happily. "Bout old Laffy Myers. He wrote and asked her to marry him. Said he'd take a couple of days off from his beloved retorts. They were married at noon and took the afternoon train back to his antidotes and bottles and babies. Now I know she's gone, I've brought you another box of candy." Nancy's hands trembled as she took the proffered box. Before her mind marched the array of her groundless fears and suspicions. She felt nothing but compassion for Henrietta?playing to the galleries to the very last. How narrow her life had become! Now Nancy understood the superior mannerisms, the little EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING 81 criticisms. Having no home, no babies, Henrietta had pretended an indifference for all the little services and sacrifices that make up a life worth living. Poor Henrietta! She would no longer wear pale yellow silks, or serve every meal on Haviland china!. "What say," continued John, since you're all dolled up and Edna's here to tend the babies, that we take in a show?" Nancy smiled demurely. "Supper is ready," she answered. "Not luncheon or dinner, but plain, old fashioned supper." The Place of Woman in the Farm Home By Dr. Thomas L. Martin, Agronomist, Brigham Young University. At various times a feeling has prevailed that agricultural work is not dignified. This feeling has changed, or is changing. During the last ten years social and economic leaders, have sensed the need of a more sympathetic regard for the farm; and in order to counteract the migration to the city which robs the country of much of its leadership they have used their energies to create a better attitude toward country life. They are doing everything in their power to get farmers to organize. They aim to bring about conditions which will make the country so attractive that it will take its due place in civilization. Country roads are being improved. Ease of communication is aiding advertisers to offer the installment buying system thus putting their goods into rural homes. Changed conditions are influencing the thinking in the farm home. Extension work through colleges, country high schools, country agents, farmer's bulletins, and leadership-week activities are doing their part. Rural Ideas are changing all. This is of vital interest, for it has its influence on each member of the farm family, particularly on the farm' woman. The Mother Overlooked In the rural home the mother has been overlooked. Her importance has not been appreciated. She it is to whom one must look for leadership in rural life. She is the spiritual force in the home, the guardian of her children. Her presence, her hands, her smile, her fingers, have always done their part in stimulating the men who have ruled the world. She is always home while the workers are in the field. If the father is sick, she manages the farm. If he becomes disappointed she gives him courage. She is the one who knows the child mind before the child can talk. She interprets one child to another and composes their conflicts. 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE She interprets the father to each child. She is the very foundation of the home. Without her the nation would dwindle into decayAnd it is to the mother of the farm home that the nation must return if American civilization is to continue. Why Help The Farm Mother? Because of her importance in life, woman must be given more consideration. It may be that man has done his part; yet our rural surveys of the standard of living and conditions in the home reveal the fact that man has been negligent. He has built the house and then assumed that his home job was completed. The four walls of shelter have been provided, but what else? Has it ever been considered that those four walls constitute the woman's workshop? It is in this workshop that ideals develop and it is here that inspiration for the accomplishment of those ideals is created. But long hours of lifting, carrying, cleaning, labor with utensils, with clothing, etc., have fatigued her until it has stamped its impress upon her countenance. As one great writer has stated, "Fatigue has poisoned her nervous system, has weakened her capacities and energies for which she is noted and needed, and has made many a promising young maiden decide that such is the fate of all who accept rural life." Farm Life and Insanity Statistics indicate that there is a lot of insanity in the world and that, with the exception of the alcohol addict, a vast number of the insane are recruited from rural homes. It is estimated that 80 per cent of the inmates of a Georgia institution are wives and daughters of farmers. The rural socioligists attempt to explain this condition as probably due to drudgery and lack of social life. This explanation may be right or wrong, yet the mother is often made a beast of burden because of the great labor she must perform in the home where conveniences have not been considered. Unthinkingly on her part or on the part of the household, she takes the burden of the sacrifices in the home. When the woman on the farm wears out her vitality, the well of inspiration is dry. The spirit life in the farm home is dead. Can we do something for her? What Can We Do For Farm Homes? The story is told. Of one woman who said that she would like to live on the farm, but that her husband must make the home in which she lived a fit place for living. It was agreed that this should be done. The farm home was made over, the house rearranged with the same care that is given in planning barns for high grade livestock. Windows were lengthened to admit more THE PLACE OF WOMAN IN THE FARM HOME 83 light,. A porch was added, cement walks were laid from the front porch. She insisted on and secured a side porch and drive-way to the barn. Windows were arranged for a good view of the outside world, the kitchen was painted white, water faucets were placed in the kitchen, cupboards were built in, gas lights were installed, a bath tub found its place, a well lighted laundry was built in the basement, a sink installed in the laundry, and sewer pipes were connected with a cesspool. A windmill was erected; automatically it pumped air and water for a large pressure tank in the basement. A gasoline engine was installed for light and heat. This sounds like a tremendous lot of luxurious things, but the cost, the windmill excepted, was less than $500. Who will deny that the changes were not worth more to the comfort of the home than would be a used Ford? That farmstead was changed over from one on which a living was to be made to one which provided for nearly all the privileges that can be secured in the much lauded town home. Can Farms Afford The Above Expenses? All farmers in our country cannot do just what is above indicated but they certainly can spare a few dollars for at least the fundamentals of decent working conditions for the women. There are many leisure days in the twelve months of the year. During these periods much that would relieve the burden of the housewife could be done by the husband. This question is serious. Consider the tendencies in city homes. The nation seems to be growing city minded, because city life provides pleasant home conditions. But in the city there are less than two children to the home. In such homes the mother loses both the home instinct and the family instinct. Rural leaders insist that the nation must return to the mother of the farm home. The farm woman lives longer than the city woman, her average life being five years more. She is less frequently found in the divorce court. The apartment houses and family hotels destroy domesticity and weaken home ties. The entertainment is much more conventionalized and superficial. The Nation In Danger How different in the farm home and with farm woman. If one but makes observations he will be led to the conclusion that as the nation continues its city-mindedness so will it arrest the completion of its destiny. The mother of the farm home is the bulwark of the nation and should be treated as such. Rural life needs attention. The accusation is made that the best blood is leaving the country and moving to the city. The condition is becoming alarming. Latter-day Saints pride themselves 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on their wonderful home life. Great claims are made, yet it will prove profitable if the father and mother in our rural homes will take stock of a very important and delicate situation?the conditions of the farm home and the attitude toward the mother of the farm home. Fathers should co-operate with mothers and make the home a better place in which to live. Some of the supposed luxuries of life must be placed in the home and the standards of living improved. An attempt at city conveniences must be made. Pictures, carpets, wall paper, running water, cupboards, closets, sinks, and many things of convenience must be there. Magazines other than those at fifty cents a year are needed. Good Housekeeping, Literary Digest, Pictorial Review, Geographic Magazine, Popular Science Monthly, as well as the religious magazines of the Church will do much to make life more pleasurable and profitable. Consider The Farm Woman The suggestion may be made that it takes money to do these things. The suggestion is a correct one, but some things can be done that will cost but little. Then again are we really doing our best to budget our time and money? Are we 100 per cent efficient in the way we manage? Do we give five per cent of our actual thinking to the problems of the home? Or do we drift along the lines of least resistance? The woman in the farm home is entitled to more attention. The mental and spiritual possibilities of our children must not be stultified by low hom? standards. Let us put energy to the questions of home life as well as to the care of animals and barns; then our mothers will be most appreciative, our children will grow up with kind feelings towards rural life, and rural America will furnish what she is expected to furnish?the ideal American citizenship. FORGOTTEN NOBILITY The deizens of pen and fold With broken panes and shingles Are snugly walled against the cold leaking In structures reared on studied lines And blackened walls and knotty floors Laid down by well-conceived designs. They dwell in cosy comfort there, Behind the battered, sagging doors. With just enough of light and air What is good farming for, anyway? And exercise and balanced ration. To furnish children with the wealth Due heed is given each sensation; Of happiness in sparkling health; For farmers prize their blooded stock, To pour the molten mind of youth Aristocrats of herd and flock. In forms of beauty, toil, and truth; To give that mind a rugged form, That's well enough; but I object To shield it from the warping storm When some men wilfully neglect Of lies and disillusionment; The true aristocrats of earth: To keep unstemmed and yet unspent Their daughters, sons, and wives, In every breast a tide of love? whose worth Such is the farm's bright treasureThey risk in houses warped and trove! Creaking ?Carlton Culmsee. Notes from the Field Tintic Stake. Reports from Tintic stake indicate that the Relief Society has been very successful during the year, with ward conferences throughout the stake, and in September a noteworthy Class Leaders' Convention at Goshen, in which the wards all participated. A preview for the coming year's work was given by the different class leaders, inspiring talks were given by the president, and others of the stake Relief Society, and by the Priesthood president. In this late Summer, the Stake Presidency and Bishops entertained the aged and the widowed of the stake?nearly two hundred guests?at Provo, with movies, followed by a delicious supper, at the home of President and Mrs. E. Frank Birch. Enthusiasm marked the fall work in all the ward Relief Societies. The feeling of the leaders is one of real gratification. St. Joseph Stake. The Secretary-treasurer of the El Paso Ward writes: "We are pleased and happy to report a substantial growth, with increasing development in the spirit of our El Paso Ward Relief Society. We are keeping in mind the mission of the Relief Society as the Prophet Joseph Smith outlined it?to look after the wants of the needy. Very efficient women we have in our organization, having excellent support by the officers. Over the lesson work the women are enthusiastic, and they enjoy the opportunities it gives for discussion and self expression. A majority of our members attend the meetings regularly. And are active in the various phases of the work. It is remarkable to note the personal development that takes place. The sisters become more efficient as home-makers, and better able to manage their children. The Relief Society Magazine is greatly appreciated. Along with our regular work we provide special entertainment, and wherever possible secure able lecturers on problems of vital interest to our members. Patriarch Harry M. Payne of the St. Joseph stake recently visited us giving many of the sisters wonderful blessings during his stay. For old-time's sake, and as a help in developing the spirit of Relief Society work among our Mexican Latterday Saints, the association commemorated Mexico's National Independence Day, the 16th of September, with decorations, program, and special refreshments featuring a Spanish theme. Spanish-speaking missionaries enjoy themselves with us. Along with our Social Service lessons we have had the 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pleasure of hearing Mrs. D. H. Huffaker, a very efficient leader, in a wonderful presentation of Child Welfare." Weber Stake. Weber stake, reorganized during last Summer, has shown that the officers, though but recently called to leadership, are veterans in the cause of Relief Society service. On August 27, in the nineteenth Ward hall a brilliant Flower Show was held, eight wards offering beautiful exhibits. Hooper Ward received first prize, the Eleventh Ward second, and the Ninteenth 'Ward, third. There were also ninety-four special exhibits, for which special awards were made. Three times during the past year the stake board has received a great deal of joy and satisfaction from visiting the County Infirmary. To each inmate they sent a Thanksgiving and a Christmas box, feeling that the real Relief Society spirit exists where joy is brought to those who are not able to do for themselves. In September at the Eleventh Ward rooms the board entertained, in honor of the ward executive committees and the retiring Stake board members and officers?President Marianne Browning, First Counselor Ellen H. Tanner, and board members Isabell Garner and Ada Quinn. It was a delightful afternoon with a lovely three-course luncheon served to forty-eight sisters. Gifts and expressions of appreciation were presented to the retiring stake members. North Sevier Stake. The North Sevier Stake Annual Flower Festival was held on August 20, 1929, at the Salina Second Ward. The opening program consisting of speeches and greetings and appropriate musical numbers, was furnished by the various wards. The-concluding event was a one-act play presented by the Redmond Ward. A profusion of beautiful flowers adorned the banquet room where light refreshments were served. Judges, chosen from the Gunnison Stake,. Awarded prizes for the best ward collections, and the best individual displays of the following flowers: Sweet Peas, Mixed Boquets, Roses, Zinnias, Dahlias, and house plants. We feel that flower festivals do much toward the beautifying of our communities, Hyrum Stake. The Annual Stake Relief social and testimonial was held on Thursday, August 22, 1929, in the Third Ward Meeting House. The event was in honor of the retiring executive officers: Sisters Susannah Nielson, Emily: Savage, Hazel Peterson, and Millie M. Peterson. A color scheme of yellow and green was carried out NOTES FROM THE FIELD 87 Malad Stake. Malad stake is endeavoring through public lectures to stimulate interest in the Book of M ormon. At one of these lectures a rather of Lamanite sisters gave a hymn, taking all the parts, One of the Lamanite sisters garbed in her native costume, stood beside another dressed in present-day clothing, giving a striking illustration of the contrast between what the Indian was, and what he now is. An able address on the characters of the Book of Mormon, by Elder John Henry Evans, followed the prologue. Minidoka Stake. In Rupert, Idaho, on September 14, Minidoka stake Relief Society held a splendid exhibition, combining literary features with exhibitions of handwork. Nine wards participated. The exhibition opened at noon, with displays of a most attractive array of art and crafts, showing what the various wards had done during the summer and early fall. The display was so arranged that each ward had its own section. Beautiful features of handwork, exhibiting a wide Tange of articles that combine utility and was an abundance of Tugs, pillows, and other articles of house furnishings. Of special merit was the display of children's wearing apparel. Altogether, the display was a triumph of art, coupled with a feeling of thrift and good taste in industry,?all developed within the Relief Society. The literary program that followed was especially fine. The theme was the home; and short talks were given on the following subjects: "The Home," "What Mother Teaches and Her Influence in the Home," "Music and Reading in the Home," "Honesty and Loyalty in the Home." "Prayer, a Divine Guidance," "Reverence for Parenthood," 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Beauty in Every Day Life," "Opportunities of Old Age," "Spirit of the Master." Appropriate music and an hour of informal recreation with games and other delightful features, made this program a very injoyable feature of the organization work?a combination of social activity and real achievement. Porineuf Stake. In connection with the annual Stake Relief Society Conference in September a unique exhibition of art work was given. Ten wards were represented. The display was a revelation of what may be accomplished by the industrious Relief Society sisters. The stake showed its appreciation for the splendid efforts of its wards in the exhibit by giving to each a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine. The conference itself was an inspiration, from the presence of President Louise Y. Robison, and was an incentive to the sisters to make this year one of signal achievement in our history. Granite Stake: During the season of 1928 and 1929, Granite stake has stressed particular activity in regard to the Relief Society Magazine. 'With a view to promoting more intelligent interest in class work' a slogan was adopted: "Read the Magazine from cover to cover, and re-read each week's lesson on the day before the lesson is given." Agents, in securing subscriptions, have urged members to devote the equivalent of ten minutes a day to the Magazine. To bring before the women of our Church the high cultural value of subjects therein, the last Thursday in October was designated as Magazine Day, when a revue and pageant dramatizing one article from each month's Magazine during the year, was presented in every ward. Beautifully typical of our publication, this pageant conveyed by picture, prose, and verse, the scope and variety of subjects contained in each issue. The setting for the presentation of these subjects was a large frame representing the cover? the Relief Society Magazine, with the lettering done in black and gold. Those taking part on the program appeared behind the open oval in the center of the frame, and special lighting effects made a very effective demonstration. The number of subscriptions has noticeably increased. The following slips were handed to every woman attending the meeting: Granite Stake Relief Society Slogan: Read the Magazine from cover to cover, and repeat the reading of each lesson before the day on which the lesson is given. Are you a subscriber?......... Will you subscribe? Guide Lessons for April LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) MOSIAH AND THE ELDER ALM. This lesson includes the matter between page 212 and page 251 of the Book of Mormon. Excepting the disquisition of King Mosiah II on popular government and that of Alma the younger on religion, the lesson is mainly narrative. It gives, first, the escape of Alma the Elder and his people from the Land of Nephi to Zarahemla and his work in the Church there in behalf of the younger generation; second, the change in the political government of the Nephites from a kingdom to a sort of republic, due to the Nephite mission to the Lamanites and the cool temperament of the reigning monarch: third, the period of internal struggle among the Nephites, induced by the ambition of one Amlici, and the subsequent conflict with the Lamanites; and fourth, the conversion of Alma the younger, with the king's sons, and his early efforts to undo his first bad works and to build up both the political and the religious organization which had been placed in his efficient and trustworthy hands. In outline form this material would appear as follows: 1. Alma the Elder on his way to Zarahemla. 1. At Helam: (a) Approximate location with regard to the Lands of Nephi and Zarahemla.; (b) Conditions there. (c) Arrival of Lamanites?results. (d) Departure to Zarahemla.
2. Arrival at Zarahemla. (a) Dual people there. (b) Comparative number of each. (c) Reception of newcomers.
3. New duties of Alma.
4. The Younger Generation:
5. Whom this younger set consists of.
6. Causes and results of their defection.
7. What was done about it: (a) Alma's difficulty in the situation. (b) The king's attitude.
90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
(c) Solution.
3. Alteration in the Nephite government:
4. Form of government before this. (a) Trace the rulers up to now. (b) Tell how they acted toward the people. (c) Give the occasion for the change.
5. Nature of the new government. (a) The grades of judges. (b) Their relation to one another. (c) Their relation to the people.
6. Its workings.
7. Strife under the new regime.
8. Nehor. (a) Who he was. (b) His ideas. (c) What was done about him.
9. Amlici. (a) Who he was. (b) His pretentions. (c) Conflict with him.
10. Alma the Younger.
11. His education and early associations.
12. His early character and purposes.
13. His conversion.
14. Subsequent events. (a) Elevation to the priesthood and chief judgeship. (b) Characteristics of his ministry. (c) His message to the Nation (pp. 245-51).
OBSERVATIONS.
1. This lesson is filled with big ideas, religious, political, and social. Mention has been made on more than one occasion in the course of these lessons of the necessity of going to original sources for our knowledge of spiritual things. An idea so fundamental cannot be too often called to our attention. Anyway, it occurs over and over again in the Book of Mormon. And one of the outstanding occasions for mention of it once more occurs in the present lesson. A "document" has been placed in the hands of King Mosiah, which is in an unknown tongue. Instead of puzzling over it and beating his brain about its contents, he proceeds to use his prophetic office to decipher it. With the plates was found an instrument called a urim and thummim, and this he employs in the translation of the foreign language. The result is that the tragic story of the Jaredites is unfolded before the Nephites.
Alma the Younger, although he was instructed in religion by
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 91
his gifted father and by means of such literature as the Nephites had, yet he does not depend on that source for his information concerning divine matters. "How do you suppose", he asks the people, "that I know of a surety of the things of which I have spoken?" And he answers with great emphasis, "Behold, they are made known unto me by the Holy Spirit of God, and I do know for myself that they are true. Moreover," he adds, "it has been revealed to me that the words that have been spoken by our fathers, are true." Thus these two men were qualified to speak on the things of the spirit, not because they had conversed with prophets or pored over books, but because they had contacted with beings and powers in another world.
Then look at just one of the political ideas that are in this lesson. Mosiah believes that the people should have a say as to who should rule them. Or strictly speaking, he believes they should govern themselves. In other words he accepts the idea which lies at the very basis of our modern American Government, expressed in the phrase the Voice of the People. "It is not common", he says in a very fine sentence, "that the voice of the people desireth anything contrary to that which is right * * * * And if the time comes that the voice of the people doth choose iniquity, then is the time that the judgments of God will come, with great destruction." If any American of modern times has better expressed a belief in democratic government than that, we have not come across it.
And then there is that age-old doctrine, so repugnant to most people in practice and so much vaunted in theory, the doctrine of social equality?a doctrine too on which the Lord has thrown every possible emphasis through all his prophets in all ages of the world. "Thus saith the Lord," says the Elder Alma. "Ye shall not esteem one flesh above another, or one man shall not think himself above another." This was given as a reason against the decide of kingship. To have a king means that one person is lifted above the people. And this in turn means the building of an aristocracy?lifting a group, or class, of persons above the masses. This democratic doctrine the Nephites of this period carried out in practice. For Benjamin and Mosiah "worked with their hands" so as not to become a burden to the people. And even the religious teachers, including the high priest, earned their living by manual labor. Their society however was of the primitive sort, not highly specialized and complex like ours.
2. No doubt these ideas come to the surface at this particular time in Nephite history because of the very high character of the leaders during this period?Mosiah and the two Almas. For all
92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
three men were exceptionally endowed with intellect and moral fiber. We have already mentioned the fine moral courage of the Elder Alma, as instanced when he broke with his iniquitous colleagues and the king. His son Alma, it seems, had the same rare quality, as shown when he invited the ridicule (and doubtless received it a-plenty) of his companions and followers at the time of his conversion. To break with the past, whether that past be either wrong or merely conventional, places a heavier tax on our moral stamina than most people imagine, who have not been put to the actual test.
And then, most of all, observe the great clearness of vision, coupled with courage, exhibited by Mosiah when he changed the form of political government. He was king. His eldest son would, in the course of events, be King after him. And what father does not wish his children and his children's children held up in the spotlight? But Mosiah is more anxious for the welfare of his people than he was that the kingship should remain in his family. And so he made it impossible for his sons, any or all of them, ever to change their minds, bring division and probably bloodshed to the Nephite nation. Mosiah was under no illusion as to his children, as most parents are. He knew human nature. He knew that his sons were made of the same clay as other men. And who could tell how long they would retain the Spirit of God?
3. Another very illuminating observation grows out of our contact with such characters as Mosiah, the two Almas, and Ammon (of whom we shall hear presently). We mean the tremendous grip that spiritual things have on the human soul. People who have never had any spiritual experiences often sneer at the knowledge that religious persons claim to have of the unseen forces of the universe, as if the only matters of which the human mind can have any real knowledge are material. The truth is, as President Brigham Young long ago asserted so positively, that there is no knowledge whatever that is at once so sure-footed, so definite and certain and so dependable as the knowledge that comes from a well-defined spiritual experience. In other words, when the Lord reveals anything to you you know it better and more surely than you can know anything in the merely sensuous world. And it is both silly and ignorant for what Professor William James used to call "tough-minded" persons to discredit a spiritual experience on the ground that it was not founded in the senses.
It is doubtless on account of this absolute sureness of knowledge that great conversions like that of Alma and Ammon, in the Book of Mormon, and of Saul of Tarsus, in the New Testament, are so crucial, so shattering to old ideals, so powerful in
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 93
directing the life into new channels, so steadying to faith in the divine. For only on this assumption of knowledge?and knowledge too of the most assuring sort?can we account for the conduct of such men as these. Alma endured contumely and persecution, Ammon suffered hardships and privation, and Paul invited martyrdom, by merely following the light which never was on land or sea. And strong-willed, intellectual men like them would not have done so for a will-o-the-wisp.
Coupled with the sureness of spiritual knowledge is the very singular thing that no sooner is a person taken hold of by a spiritual experience than he is restless till the whole world comes under the spell of the same influence. It is characteristic when Galileo discovered the great potential fact that a pound of lead and a pound of feathers reached the ground at the same time when dropped from the tower of Pisa, or when, a few days ago, two young scientists discovered that hydrogen is a compound and not an element, these men did not feel an irrepressible urge to spend the rest of their lives showing people that these were facts and not illusions. But when Alma and Ammon and Paul came to know that Christ opens the way to salvation, they could rest neither night nor day as long as anyone remained ignorant, through fault of theirs, of this redemptive truth. It is indeed a marvelous thing, and a wonder.
Questions
1. Relate the story of how Alma and his converts escaped to Zarahemla.
2. Explain the change that took place in the political government of the Nephites at this period.
3. Tell about Nehor, about Amlici.
4. Relate the conversion of Alma.
5. Why should the "younger generation" be slow in accepting religion?
6. What is the difference between a "democrat" and an "aristocrat"?
7. Can you think of a situation in which your love of honor for a child would conflict with the welfare of your people or community?
8. Why should Alma "rejoice" when he was told that his son had fallen to the ground and been stricken dumb?
References. 1. The text pp. 212-251. 2. The "Dictionary of the Book of Mormon" and the "Story of the Book of Mormon" by George Reynolds. 3. "Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon," by John Henry Evans.
94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON II
Work and Business (Second Week in April)
HONESTY.
1. Honesty is more than a mere policy, it is a principle. It embraces truth, a reverence for right honorable dealing, and it holds sacred the rights of property. "An honest man is the noblest work of God." Honesty should be cultivated throughout life.
2. Teaching Children to be Honest:
3. Begin Early. "Train up a child in the way he shall go: And when he is old, he will not depart from it."
4. "Honesty is acquired, not inherited." a. The child must understand property rights?"mine and thine." b. He should have his own possessions and jurisdiction over them. c. The group attitude and ideals are of great importance. d. Happiness and success are results of honorable living.
5. There is generally a motive underlying a dishonest act, and it is most important to find it. In a child who has a feeling of inferiority, the motive may be a desire to appear more important. Again it may be to gain recognition of his group, to become more popular. An example of this is taking money to buy candy for friends. Sometimes the group may approve of acts of dishonesty. It may be a result of jealousy or a means of getting even. Whatever the motive may be, "The earlier we recognize that these children are not bad or vicious and necessarily doomed to a criminal career, but that they are simply floundering around, trying to find some outlet for their pent up emotions, the more we can do for them." Let them know we trust them, give them understanding, love and confidence.
6. In referring to a non-tithe payer, President Heber J. Grant said, "How can a man sing lullabys to his conscience and compromise himself with the Lord, when he is strictly honest with men.
7. "We believe in being honest" ?13th Article of Faith "Thou shalt not steal." "Thou shalt not bear false witness." Exodus 20:15-16. "Providing for honest things"?2 Cor. 8:21.
8. We owe it to our God, our country, our neighbors and ourselves to be honest. If we observe the Golden Rule in all our dealings, it will be a positive power in character development.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 95
LESSON III
Literature (Third Week in April)
ERNESTINE ROESSLER SCHUMANN-HEINK
Ernestine Roessler, later known as Schumann-Heink, was born of Austrian parentage on June 15, 1861, in Lieben, Prague. Her father's name was Hans Roessler; her mother's Charlotte Goldman. The two were married in Italy; for at that time a part of Italy was under the control of Austria. Hans Roessler was a soldier, rough-hewn and uncultured, as he himself declared. "I must admit it, a real old rough-neck soldier just the same! A good, good man he was?but a rough-neck! God bless him!" Charlotte Goldman was fairly well educated; she could speak French and Latin very well, and was possessed of a beautiful contralto voice. It was probably from her that Ernestine inherited her gift.
That Schumann-Heink's great voice was a gift of nature there can be no doubt, for early in her life it was recognized as being very unusual. Though the Roesslers were very poor, friends who could appreciate what they early heard the child sing volunteered to teach her how to use her voice properly. Ernestine's parents were soon separated, owing to the fact that he could not understand her; and poverty glared at them continually. Later Mrs. Heink, then divorced from her first husband who had deserted her, married Ernst Heink, a secretary in the Government Department at Dresden. Heink, however, soon developed tuberculosis, and finally died.
Later on Schumann-Heink married Paul Schumann, a member of a celebrated operatic family, and a fairly successful actor. Schumann's health was poor. He gradually grew worse and at length died, leaving his wife a widow. Schumann was a Mason; Schumann-Heink a Catholic, but love soon overcame these barriers.
After Schumann's death, the great singer felt much alone with her eight children. It was then she decided to marry, seemingly as a matter of convenience, her third husband, William Rapp, who was her secretary. These two, however, did not remain together so very long.
Schumann-Heink made the United States her home. During the war she had one son, August, in the German army, and her others in the United States forces. She became the greatest contralto singer of her time and is still an active singer. In the summer of 1929 she returned to Bayreuth, the scene of her early triumph, to participate in a great celebration and reunion of musicians. The names of her children are: August, Charlotte, Henry, Hans, Walter, Ferdinand, Marie and George Washington.
96 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
SCHUMANN-HEINK?THE LAST OF THE TITANS.
By Mary Lawton.
"Madame Schumann-Heink is one of the few active survivors of a wonderful musical period and of a group of famous singers?great singers of distinction, whose training and whose association with an equally important group of musicians and conductors seem to set them apart from the singers before and after them. In telling her story to Mary Lawton, Madame Schumann-Heink includes her memories of many of these celebrated people, as well as the events of her own rich life. Miss Lawton has not only recreated the singer's interviews into an absorbing narrative but has taken great pains to catch the homely idiom in which they were expressed; and, while setting down the incidents in orderly fashion, to convey the full impression of Madame Schumann-Heink's personality.
"The story tells of Schumann-Heink's early privations and struggles, of her first successes, of her experiences in America, of London days, of singing to the soldiers during the War, and of the climax of her fame and her golden jubilee."?Editor's note.
The above quotation gives in a few words the contents of this rather remarkable biography of a great person, but of course it cannot give the charm of the narrative nor can it convey the impression one gets from reading the life of a truly great character. One must read the book to get those impressions. Since this biography appeared in "The Ladies' Home Journal" a few years ago, it is probable that there are a few in every community who have already made the acquaintance of Schumann-Heink. 
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 97
Libraries and even homes probably still possess the volume of the Journal in which it appeared, hence there is little doubt but that the story is accessible in every ward.
There probably are in every community, too, a few people who have actually seen the great Heink and who have heard her sing. Due to the cleverness of Miss Mary Lawton, this biography reads like an autobiography. We have no third person narrative but a warm, informal story which seems to come from the very lips of the singer. So realistic is it that in places the reader feels that he is not only hearing her talk, but is actually seeing her. This illusion is enhanced by the copious illustrations, which show the Madame during all periods of her life and also many of the great musicians with whom she has associated.
The narrative is simple. It even suggests in its quaint phrasing that Schumann-Heink, though a naturalized American citizen and one to her heart's core, is of foreign birth. The idiom of her own language shines through the English to add charm. Miss Lawton succeeds in keeping herself entirely out of the reader's mind. She, it seems, acts as a wise stenographer and allows the interviewed?Schumann-Heink?to draw her own likeness; and what a likeness it is!
Here we have, to begin with, the daughter of a poor army officer who has scarcely enough to eat, let alone to give his family any sort of training. We behold the child sallow of skin even from youth, and to off-set that handicap with no good features except a pair of dark eyes. We see her as a child, doing childish things until her marvelous voice?even then marvelous?an inheritance probably from her mother?is heard by a sympathetic person who knows when she hears an unusual voice. Then we see the free lessons, followed by the struggle up and up towards a career. We see the disappointments the girl meets, but see shining through them all the heart of a Titan, as she struggles on and on. We come, through reading this book, to know just how much that one slothful servant of the parable might have accomplished with his one talent had he been possessed of the courage of this Austrian girl.
What would many of us have done under the following circumstances: LeBatt, a tenor from the Vienna Opera had heard the child sing through the efforts of Tante Nina Kienzl, the wife of a great composer who lived near the child and who frequently had celebrities call. LeBatt suggested that the child go to Vienna and sing before his director. Ernestine, however, had no money with which to go to Vienna, so she prevailed upon Tante Nina to introduce her to a rich retired officer who lived near by. This
98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
man heard her sing and afterwards gave her money with which to make the trip.
"Yes, I went to Vienna?to the director?and sang." Madame Schumann-Heink declared, "I sang 'Ah, Mon Fils', and the 'Drinking Song' from 'Lucrezia Borgia'?'the Brindisi', they generally called it?which made me famous in the United States long years after?though at that time I didn't know anything about the United States; didn't know even that there was such a place!"
"Well, I had a good success, but that wasn't enough. The Director (Zauner was his name) listened to me patiently, and then turned to LeBatt, and said, shrugging his shoulders. "Well, what you want? What's all the fuss? Look at her! Mein Gott! With such a face?and such poverty?nothing? What do you want? What do you expect? Gott in Himmel!"
"And then to me, 'No, no my dear child, waving his hands. "Go home quick, and ask your kind friends who helped you to come to Vienna to buy you instead a sewing machine, and learn to be a good dressmaker maybe, or something like that?but a singer?an opera singer! Ach, no! Never?never in this world."
So home I went, heartbroken. Upon her return her father flew into a rage and told her to get back to school and learn to be a school teacher; but her old teacher and her mother still thought otherwise, and so also did Schumann-Heink.
Soon afterward a little Jew named Levi came to Graz to make engagements for singers. He went to Marietta von Leclair. Ernestine's teacher, and told her that the whole Vienna opera company was buzzing over the marvelous voice of the child. "Now I am interested in young singers," said he, "and I telegraphed to the Dresden Royal Opera, and they are willing to pay the expenses and hear her there, and if they find she is what they think, and has talent and voice, they will make a contract with her, I am sure." The teacher hastened over to the home of Ernestine. "Now," she said, "this is the real opportunity! I know positively this child will have a success. It is a sign of God!" The family was upset, for they had no money with which to pay the child's fare even though she was to be reimbursed. Again, however, the money was forthcoming from a friend. Ernestine had her chance and this time she was engaged at 3,600 marks the first year, 4,600 marks the second and 5,000 marks the third year.
"God knows what will happen to you, Tina, you are so young," her father said as she was ready to leave to embark upon her career.
"Well, his fears were useless," Schumann-Heink declares,
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 99
"Because from the very first, I had one big protection: I was homely * * * * I knew from the beginning how homely I was. But homely or not?nothing mattered then. For at last I have my contract for the Dresden Royal Opera?signed by the King."
The child's troubles were not by any means over, but from that point there was little turning back. She went from one triumph to another, though in between were many periods of despair, during one of which she even contemplated the killing of her children and suicide, because of her extreme poverty. It seems, however, that the gods or fate had decreed that she was to be a great singer, and nothing seemed capable of stopping her after once she set her foot upon the right path. Her greatest triumphs were achieved after she came to this country. Here in America she was acclaimed everywhere; and the little child who in Austria often had insufficient food received as high as $28,000.00 for a single week's engagement. No wonder that she adopted this country and was willing that some of her sons should fight for it in the World War even though one son was on the German side.
Any woman who reads this remarkable volume through will come from it, I feel sure, believing that the struggle is worth while. That it is great to be a great singer, but that it is also great to be a great mother who would, if need be, sacrifice her career or her life for her children. I think some of her closing words are worth repeating here, for fear that some of the sisters will not see them.
"It's a long, long trail?a long way I've come, a rough way in places, but it has been a wonderful life, all told, and I wouldn't have missed an hour of it or changed it for any other; for I've learned something, I hope, in these starving, working, bitter, and golden years. And now that I no longer look with the eager eyes of youth, I see more clearly than ever that one point, the very mainspring of my life, has been the concentration on my art. I never looked to the right or the left, I had simply this one big idea from the beginning?to reach the goal, to fulfill my childhood ambition?to be one of the great contraltos of the world. And, thank God! I've stuck to my point, through thick and thin, through poverty, sickness, and death, from youth to old age?and I've come at last to the top of the little tree that I planted so many, many years ago.
"The value of this to young singers is my only object in telling it all over again. This shall be my parting word?know what you want to do?then do it. Make straight for your goal and go undefeated in spirit to the end. And that, let me tell you, requires some doing?take it from Mother Schumann-Heink?and who should know better than I?"
100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Yes, children, see it through, and perhaps you, too, will come, as I have, to a Golden Jubilee. This is a Golden Jubilee for me, in every sense of the word?as full of touching tributes as my heart is of gratitude. Gratitude!? that's my very last word? gratitude to the American people who have so made my American career! For it is here in America that my happiest years have been spent?it is here in America, please God, that I shall end my days?march on, 'booted and spurred,' as my father used to say, like an old soldier of fortune.
"For how better could one make the grand finale?and ring down the last curtain? Still marching on!"
"That is the great wish of my heart?to die as I've lived?in harness."
One closes the book feeling that here is a woman well worth the knowing, an achievement of which the world may well feel proud.
LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in April)
LESSON IV?PHYSICAL AND MENTAL DEFECTIVES
In lesson III we considered the extent and causes of physical and mental disease, and discussed the treatment of physical and mental defects operating to produce poverty and demoralization. The present lesson we shall devote to a consideration of (a) the crippled and disabled, (b) the blind and the deaf, and (c) the mentally defective.
A. The Crippled and Disabled.
The Minnesota State Board of Control defines a disabled person as "Any person who by reason of physical defect or deformity, whether congenital or acquired by accident, injury or disease is, or may be expected to be, totally or partially incapacitated for remunerative occupation."
The question arises: How many such persons are there? Statistics on this subject are difficult to secure. In 1916 a house to house canvass in Cleveland revealed the presence of more than 4,000 cripples?a ratio of about six disabled persons to every one thousand inhabitants. A census taken in Massachusetts in 1905 (Queen and Mann, "Social Pathology," Crowell, Page 521) gives "more than 17,000 lame, maimed and deformed persons, ?a ratio of 5.7 per thousand of the state's population. The close similarity of the figures from these two studies leads us to feel that an estimate for the entire United States may be based on
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 101
them, giving for the United States, 660,000 seriously disabled persons. Mr. Dean estimates the number of crippled and disabled in the United States to be over 2,000,000 'of whom 600,000 have been so incapacitated as to be rendered occupationally useless.' "
The causes of physical disability in adults can be determined only approximately. It is estimated (Queen and Mann, 524) "that of 600,000 permanently disabled persons in the United States, 300,000 represent the results of disease, 100,000 of industrial accidents, and 200,000 of other accidents."
For children, there are more accurate data of the causes of physical disability. The following table is furnished by the Spalding School, Chicago.
Diagnosis of Crippled Children In Chicago
Diagnosis Per cent. Infantile paralysis.............................32 Tuberculosis of bone..........................18 Spastic paralysis..............................10 Cardiac defects................................10 Amputations....................................6 Congenital defects.............................6 Osteomyelitis..................................5 Arthritis......................................3 Obstetrical paralysis..........................3 Sleeping sickness..............................1 Accidents......................................6
Types of Service
There are two distinct types of service for crippled and disabled children: one is medical; the other, educational. Medical services vary all the way from the out-patient department of the private general hospital to the highly specialized orthopedic sanitarium, maintained out of public funds. An example of the latter type is the remarkable institution maintained by the State of Iowa, at the State Medical School. During recent years great progress has been made in inventions and adaptations of prosthetic devices, artificial limbs, supports, braces, etc.
In most large cities, schools for crippled children are part of the public-school facilities, as in the Spalding School, Chicago, connected with the Institute for Destitute Crippled Children.
For the care of the crippled and disabled adult a new principle has been introduced in the United States. Following the World War, ex-soldiers and ex-sailors, instead of being pensioned, as in previous wars, were granted subsidies under the war-risk-insurance act. In addition to insurance, disabled soldiers and sailors
102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
receive compensation, the amount varying with the nature of the injuries and with the number of their dependents. Our government went further and provided vocational rehabilitation and training for disabled veterans. These services are administered through the Veterans' Bureau, the American Red Cross, and the Federal Board for Vocation Education.
The same principles have been applied to the care of adults disabled in industry, so that now more than half the States have what is called civilian rehabilitation laws, which provide (a) insurance, (b) disability compensation, and (c) vocational re-education.
It is probably safe to conclude that in our own country, at least, society is dealing much more intelligently with the crippled and disabled than it has ever done before; but, many possibilities lie in the field of prevention.
B. The Blind And The Deaf.
In 1920 the United States census reported 52,500 blind persons in the United States, approximately 500 per 1,000,000 of the population. Of these 30,000 were male, and 22,500 were female. Only 10,000 of the blind were under the age of twenty-five. Most of these persons are greatly handicapped. It is probably safe to say that the great majority of the adult blind are not self-supporting. On the other hand, large numbers are employed and become partially self-supporting in broom-making, chair-caning, piano-tuning, basket-weaving, etc; and many blind persons are employed as news-dealers, clerks, salesmen.
The causes of blindness are interesting. In the case of 35,000 blind from whom data are available in the census, "two-fifths reported specific affections of the eye, such as cataract, glaucoma, atrophy of the optic nerve, ophthalmia neonatorum, and trachoma. One-sixth reported their blindness to be due to such general diseases as measles, meningitis and scarlet fever. Another one-sixth reported the cause of their blindness to be accidents from explosives, firearms, falls, etc. Finally, there were about one-fourth whose reports as to causation were indefinite or inaccurate. These included the blind who stated that their condition was congenital (not otherwise specified) that it was due to neuralgia, sore eyes, etc. From the first to the fifty-fourth year, external injury is the most frequent cause of blindness. From the fifth to the thirty-fourth year it produces more than one-fourth of all blindness, but from fifty-five on, cataract is the leading cause. Atrophy of the optic nerve gradually increased in frequency up to middle life, after which it continues as the second most important causal factor." (Queen and Mann, 552).
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 103
Cared For By States
Every State in the Union has one or more state boarding schools for the blind, furnishing systematic instruction in the fundamental school subjects and in vocational subjects. In most of the large school systems, provision is also made for the education and training of blind children. A number of states have gone so far as to provide special pensions for blind adults.
In addition to the facilities provided out of public funds, many private agencies support adult homes for the blind, workshops for the blind, special schools, home instruction, vocational education, libraries, bureaus of information, "light-houses."
The blind constitute perhaps the oldest and most permanent group of the physically handicapped, and while more social and public welfare work is done for them than for any other group of the disadvantaged, it is also true that a great deal has yet to be done on the preventive side. Social work and social workers could well afford to concentrate their energies on the causes of blindness.
Deafness, while a serious handicap, is not so disabling as blindness; yet the last census gives the number of deaf persons in the United States as 45,000, most of whom were over ten years of age. Approximately one-third of this number are persons able to speak, and about one-half are able to read lips. Four-fifths use the sign language, and an equal number employ finger-spelling. The great majority can write; the point being that practically all deaf persons are able to communicate.
Causes and Cures of Deafness
Deafness, of course, does not carry with it the economic disadvantage that blindness involves; most deaf persons being self-supporting.
One of the striking things about deafness is that about two-fifths of the deaf are born so handicapped. It is well known that certain types of deafness are hereditary, yet it must not be assumed that all cases of congenital deafness appearing in infancy are due to heredity. As a matter of fact, among the chief causes of deafness are scarlet fever, meningitis, brain fever, measles and typhoid.
Most states have provided systems of care for the deaf almost parallel to the facilities set up for the blind, boarding schools, special classes in the public schools, etc. Private agencies, supported out of private funds, are doing all sorts of helpful things for the deaf?research, job-finding, education of public opinion, etc.
What was said of blindness might be said with equal truth of deafness: the greatest effort yet remains to be exerted on the
104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
side of prevention. Here again we find that the diseases of childhood, if intelligently controlled and prevented, would greatly reduce the amount of blindness and deafness. Intelligent parents can no longer take the position that whooping cough, scarlet fever, measles, are diseases inevitable in childhood and the sooner their children have them "and get it over with," the better.
The advent of the radio, particularly through the use of the earphone, has contributed greatly to the increased happiness of many partially deaf persons.
C. Mental Defectives.
Feeblemindedness is to be clearly distinguished from insanity; the latter is a mental disease; the former, a mental defect. Says the British Royal Commission: "A feebleminded person is one who is capable of earning a living under favorable circumstances, but is incapable, from mental defect existing from birth, or from an early age, (a) of competing on equal terms with his normal fellows; or (b) of managing himself and his affairs with ordinary prudence."
Psychologically, mental deficiency is sometimes described as a condition of arrested development, limiting the individual to a mental capacity not exceeding that of twelve-year-old normal children.
Most authorities agree that the percentage of feeblemindedness ranges from one-half of one per cent to three per cent of the population. Taking the smaller figure, this means that we have in the United States over 500,000 mental defectives; and, in Utah, a total of 2,500, 1,700 of whom would probably be children of school age, i. e., under fifteen years. Only the low-grade defectives need permanent care in state institutions. Higher grade defectives can and should be dealt with in the public schools.
While it is true that most feeblemindedness is the result of defective inheritance, it is also true that a large amount of mental deficiency is congenital, the direct result of alcoholism, tuberculosis, or syphilis, in the parents. Conditions acting before birth, during birth, and after birth can produce feeblemindedness. Such things as abnormal conditions of the mother during pregnancy, injuries to the fetus, abnormalities of labor, premature birth, head injuries, toxic conditions, convulsions, nutritional disturbances, are all well known causes of feeblemindedness that is not hereditary.
Treatment of the Feeble-Minded
Not much can be done medically and surgically for mental deficiency, although limited success has been achieved by means of what is popularly called "gland" treatment. Following are
GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 105
principles generally accepted as the basis of a community's program for the control of feeblemindedness:
1. Identification.
2. Registration.
3. Special education in the public schools followed by community supervision, for the high-grade defective.
4. Segregation in a separate state school for the low-grade defective.
5. Segregation in a separate state institution for the defective delinquent.
Many states, during the last generation, have tried sterilization as a preventive measure against feeblemindedness. In most states where sterilization laws have been passed, however, this form of control is anything but successful. On the other hand, California, for instance?where the great majority of all sterilizations have been performed?seems to have achieved considerable success in the matter.
Questions For The Further Stimulation of Thought.
1. How many crippled and disabled persons are there in your community? How do they get along financially? What occupations do they follow?
2. Do you know of cases of poverty and family disorganization due to physical disability? How might social work meet this situation?
3. What sort of vocations and leisure-time activities are pursued by the blind in your community?
4. What do your own state laws provide regarding the education and training of blind children in the public schools?
5. Are the schools in your city, county, or district equipped with special classes for the education of blind, deaf, and crippled children? Why not?
6. What do your own state laws provide for the rehabilitation of workmen injured in industry?
7. Have you ever noticed that deaf people are inclined to be a little more irritable, sensitive, and suspicious than the blind? How do you account for this fact?
8. What provision has your community made for the education and training of high grade feebleminded children in your public schools?
9. What are the arguments for or against sterilization of mental defectives?
10. How intelligent is your community in the control of those children's diseases which sometimes result in physical deformity, blindness, deafness, and even feeblemindedness?
Books for the Family
By Lais V. Hales.
THE CHARM OF A WELL-MANNERED HOME
By Helen Ekin Starrett.
Most young couples start with a dream of an ideal home. But they fail to accept the conditions necessary to the realization of this ideal, such as infinite patience, constant love, confidence, devotion, unselfishness, willingness to spend and be spent in the service of each other. "Nowhere are beautiful manners so beautiful as in the home"; and no higher aim can be set before any young couple than the building of an ideal home and family.
The girls of today are not well prepared for the responsibilities of wifehood. In them is a lack of physical and mental stamina, a lack of spirit of steady industry, of definite aim, of responsibility. The fault lies mainly with the mothers and the times in which these girls live. In most homes there is overpressure on the mother, which prevents her from giving the right amount of time to training her daughters. Again, too many things are pressed upon the attention of the young girls?too many studies, too many diversions, too much going about, too much of seeing people. To make up for these serious deficiencies, the young wife of today must, above all things, "be guided by a high sense of duty, and by a sincere, unselfish determination to do her share in the work of building a home."
Housekeeping and homekeeping are two very different things. There are times when the mother may make housekeeping secondary but homemaking, never. To proportion the two properly will require patience and wisdom.
Some of the things that will help are early rising, intelligent preparation of meals, an active superintendence of the duties of the home "which most of all dignify young wifehood." She must early realize that the cares of the home, in all their multiplicity and wearisomeness of detail, will devolve chiefly upon her. She must have the patience to avoid bickerings and quarrels, which utterly destroy the dignity of the home.
The mother is the heart of the home. The atmosphere of the home is determined largely by the mother. She it is who will decide upon the character of the friends who shall visit the home. The spiritual plane upon which she lives will regulate her influence and measure her power in moulding the character of her
BOOK FOR THE FAMILY 107
children. She must constantly keep in mind that the most effective training for children is the training of example. She must be happy, kind, patient, humble, unselfish, if she wants her children to possess these virtues. She must remember and be strengthened by the thought that the confining home duties and cares occupy only a passing period of her life. She must know that she is practicing an art?"incomparably the highest of all arts,?the moulding of human character. A kingdom in the hearts of her children, it is worth any mother's toil and care and weariness to win."
"Even this shall pass away," is a comforting, useful household maxim. The young mother should be as happy as she can in the busy care-crowded days, remembering that all annoyances will pass away. She would miss one of her troublesome little noise-makers from among the flock?
"The mother in the sunshine sits Besides the cottage wall; And softly, while she knits and knits, The gathering tears down fall; The little hindering thing is gone, And undisturbed she may knit on."
She must exercise wisdom in dividing her time sanely among the unending demands of home life. The higher must never be sacrificed to the lower. A good mother must realize the relative importance of things. Her first duty is to be cheerful, healthy, patient, and loving; and all work that tends to prevent her from fulfilling this duty is comparatively unimportant, being better left undone.
Scolding, in its effect on family life, is like "throwing sand into a delicate machine; it causes all parts to grate upon each other; it does no good, but only evil and that continually." To choose the happy medium and golden mean in everything should be the study of every sensible young wife and mother. The comfort dispenser in the home is usually a woman. Comfort and repose go hand in hand. The desire to adorn and beautify the home is one of the highest and best instincts of the human heart. Order, neatness, system, tidiness, are the first elements of household decoration. Home is, first of all, for use and comfort. A window is to look out of, and a chair to sit in; and anything that gives other than an impression of permanence, consistent with the use for which it is intended and of having an "excuse for being," is poor taste. In this business of establishing a "well-mannered home," happy is that wife and mother who finds a friend and companion in her mother or mother-in-law. Half the cares and troubles of married life and of rearing a family may be lifted by suchj kindly, loving, and sympathizing companionship as the latter may 108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE give. Where she shines supreme is in the care of little children. No house that has a baby in it is complete without a grandma; and happy beyond worlds is that baby, and happy is that young mother, who possesses one. She is the one member of the family who can do more to make household affairs run smoothly than any other, for she knows all the ins and outs of housekeeping and homemaking." These and many other helpful and sincerely beautiful thoughts are contained in Helen Ekin Starrett's delightful little book, "The Charm Of a Well-Mannered Home." Mrs. Starrett lived the mother-life that she expounds in this book; her book, therefore, is sincere, and free from any didactic quality. It contains much of the "inspiring influence" of its author, whose whole life was one of love and unselfishness. It is distinctly a gentle book but its effect is powerful and stimulating. For every member of the family there is real help in this little volume. Although it is addressed primarily to the mother, it discusses problems that concern the father and the children. One critic has said it is a book "for both men and women to read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest." Prosperity: An Answer to Hope As a topic of the day, no one can doubt the popularity of the word "Prosperity." The word is on the tongues and in the minds of millions daily. Some dispute its existence. Others assert it. The word prosperity has an interesting fact in its history. Fundamentally, from its origin, the word means "an answer to hope." An effective popular definition of prosperity could perhaps be phrased: "Prosperity is that condition of economic affairs which the people earnestly hope will come to pass." This origin of the word prosperity is borne out by Webster's New International Dictionary, which traces the word to the Latin prefix "pro," meaning "according to," plus the first four letters of the verb "sperare," meaning to hope. Is your 1929 job good enough for 1930? If you want to make more money in 1930 than you did last year?if you are serious about getting ahead, we may be able to help you. Many young people who have been working, come back here to school for a few months to learn the fundamentals of business. Our Employment Department then cooperates with them in finding a better position where their business training can be capitalized. Don't struggle along in the same old rut this year. Get the facts about this simple and easy avenue to a bigger job and better pay. Send in your name today for complete details. No obligation. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. Address................And he took it down, and wrapped it in linen and laid it in a sepulchre that was hewn in stone." ?Luke 23:53. Thus did Joseph of Arimathea care for the body of Christ. From the earliest records we find Mausoleum entombment being used by the wealthy and aristocratic families. Today this preferred type of burial can be afforded by everyone?space in Sunset Mausoleum is less expensive than desirable ground burial.. Mausoleum burial is not cremation. In this "Cathedral of Peace" each casket, with its precious remains contained therein, as if in sleep, rests in its own pure white sanitary vault or crypt, hermetically sealed, and faced with beautiful imported marble. Space may now be reserved. " SUNSET MAUSOLEUM Corner of Twenty-third East and Thirteenth South Office?1404 Deseret Bank Building Phone Wasatch 3414 Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine eo a "YOU CAN'T GO WRONG" THAT'S WHY WE SAY "Buy Blue Pine Food Products" and if for any reason your purchase is not entirely satisfactory, go to your Grocer and he will refund your money. Scowcroit's BLUE PINE FOOD PRODUCTS RELIEF SOCIETY Books of Study for the 1930 LITERARY LESSONS These Books Are Now Available A Son of the Middle Bordev............$1.00 The Lost Commander...................$ 3.00 Joaquin Miller $1.75 Schumann-Heink (A new and cheaper edition)..........-- 2.50 Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson 5.00 Postpaid If Money Accompanies Order Order Now Deseret Book Company 44. Kast on So. Temple 5 Seven ? Times ? Champion of the World Sent to you on Free Trial Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 177 E. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine P-Ws Mountain Grown \SEEDS "TREES | Are Hardier The Flowers, Vege. Tables, Fruits, and Ornamental Shrubs and Trees, you will want are fully deseribed in P-W's Seed and Nursery Book. It tells how, what and where. Be sure today to? Write for Free Jeed and Nursery Book. PORTER-WALTON CO. Jeed and Nursery Specialists SALT LAKE CITY - UTAH Save This Coupon It will be accepted same as 50c in cash on your first order selected from our Catalog amounting to over $2.50. PORTER-WALTON CO., Salt Lake City (Void after March 15, 1930) Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone?Telegraph Orders. Open Daily, 9 a.m.?5 p. m. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 - 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Complete Printing and Binding Service Se eee ee OFFICE wrwyw RULING AND AND BANK WW BOOK FORMS BINDING SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.? Write us about them. The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Relief Society Women--- Attention | After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department. The Presidency of the Church, realizing tle needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people. The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys. We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The Evening Story by the Firelight Utah Gas & Co SOUTH MAIN --- Ogden Gas Company 419 TWENTY: FOURTH ST. --- PHONE 174 THIS is just one of the things which Natural Gas does better than any other fuel! A cozy, cheerful, radiant warmth from a conveniently placed burner! Clean, smokeless and instantly responsive to your needs, Just the thing for the variable temperatures of early spring and fall. And surprisingly economical. For house-heating, a Natural Gas heating plant is ideal. Why not enjoy its supreme comfort NOW! Let us give you an estimate of cost for your home. Most people are truly surprised at the low cost. And for cooking, water-heating, sanitary incineration and automatic refrigeration, this fine, modern fuel has no superior. It is worth looking into. Aluna(GAS The Ideal Fuel Visit any of our display rooms and see for yourself the many new ways in which Natural Gas can add to your enjoyment of living. Wasatch Gas Comp Serving Salt lake City Phone Wasatch #300 Serving Kaysville (Branch Office) Phone Kaysville 200-Layton-Farmington?Bountiful?Centreville?Magna?Toowle?Garfield (Branch Office Phone Murray 583)--MIDVALE -Utah Gas &Coke Co 45 South Main?Phone Wasatch 1300 Serving Salt Lake City Ogden Gas Company 414 Twenty-Fourth ST-Phone 174 Serving Ogden  A BENEFICIAL GUARANTEE No one can read the future?No one can tell how long you will be able to support your family. Can and Will Guarantee to Complete an Estate Savings Fund Even Though You Die Tomorrow A BETTER OR MORE SECURE FORM OF INVESTMENT "CANNOT BE FOUND THAN A BENEFICIAL POLICY WHERE YOU GET  Participating Insurance  At Low Non-Participating Rates  All Beneficial Policyholders Share in Our Net Earnings Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home Office, Vermont Building, Salt Lake City, HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr. Any Beneficial Representative Will Give You Full Details When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  WINTER EXCURSION FARES Via Southern Pacific Lines RETURN BOTH WAYS $50 50 To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISSCO returning direct or route vented $58.00 Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE D. R. OWEN, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008?3078 Ride with if PEP-ETHYL YOU will never know what your car. Can do until you use PEP-Ethyl?PEP gasoline with its quick starting and high power features plus the anti-knock quality of Ethyl fluid. I Fill your tank with PEP-Ethyl today. Make sure you ask for PEP-Ethyl. It is made to perform better in mountainous regions and will start your car quicker. PEP-Ethyl is manufactured and guaranteed by the UTAH OIL REFINING COMPANY Salt Lake City ETHYL the GAS with a PUNCH WITH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine 41 SO, MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY 
