L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS

Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:

No. 1 New style, ribbed it. Est cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent Ladies number $1.25

No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. Wet., eotton, our standard summer wet. 1.25

No. 3 Ribbed med. wt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number 1.90

No. 4 "aw r poe dou Haci'number N 2.25

No. 5 oo ba ae, pies ier ber 3.00

No. 6 Light weight summer garMent. Old style or Ladies' new style 95

No. 7 Light wet. New or old style, mercerized—silky finish 1.75

No. 8 Light weight Spring and Summer garment. Men only 1.00

No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only 1.50

No. 10 Medium wet. Silk for men and women, new style only 1.95

In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid. Special discount to missionaries.

FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL

Utah Woolen Mills 2.25 Briant Stringham, Manager only, new style only 1.50 28 Richards Street

LDS. GARMENTS

Good grade and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady.

Postage prepaid. Sample on request.

147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave $1.10
508 Ladies' New Style Extra Lt.
82 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt 1.50
Wt. Combed Cot 1.25
208 Ut. Wt. Rib. Double Card Co 1.35
302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon 2.50
222 Rayon Striped Combed Cot 1.65
307 Men's New Style, Rayon 2.75
258 Med. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot. 1.85
ate ACRE
628 Mere. Lisle Light Wt. 2.00
754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.25
908 Unblecahed Cot. Ex. Hvy. 2.75
1118 Wool and Cotton Mixed 3.50

BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

Temple and Burial Clothes

COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN

Variety of Grades and Prices

Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders

Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M.

General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah

L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory

You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.

No. 68 Old Style new style % or No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached. Long legs $.85 Double Back 1.75
No. 68 Ribbed It. Cot. Knee length $.75 No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15
No. 74 Ribbed It. Wt. Cotton 1.10 No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., Unbleached
No. 76 Ribbed It. Wt. Lisle 1.35 No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 60%
No. 63 Lt.. Med. Unbleached Double Wool 3.15
Back 1.35 No. 89 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 60%
No. 64 Ribbed Lt. Med. Cot. 1.35 Wool 365
Re. Oe Eithed ne Ags bieesped 1.75 No. 32 Silk and Wool 4.35
on Run Rayon, ow an nee Defeth 2.15

WHITE TEMPLE PANTS
Long Sleeves and Legs, or old style 2.85 8 oz. Heavy Duck 1.95

SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS

In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight. Sizes above 48—20% extra.

Marking 15c. Postage Prepaid.

Special—When you order three pair of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on third pair only.

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle 1.95

GARMENTS Double Back 2.15

UNDERWEAR

Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.

C= SELLY LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.

GETTING READY?

You will soon look around for suitable gifts. Electrical gifts are not only practical but also decorative and therefore always appreciated.

For Father, Mother, Brother, Sister or Sweetheart we have suggestions to offer.. Before you decide come in and look over our complete line of appliances, lighting fixtures and ornamental table lamps, you will be inspired to see our new creations now on display at our "Modern" show rooms.

Modern Electric Co. 128 South State Street, Salt Lake City Phone Wasatch 2307

Fred C. Wolters, President F. Boede, Secretary-Treasurer

GRATITUDE

Day by day more Food Buyers are patronizing our stores, showing their gratitude for having in their community, a fine, clean O. P. Skaggs System store where the highest quality merchandise can be bought at economy prices.

O0. P SKAGGS. Officient Service FOOD System gps "A Surety of Purity"

Cottonwood Stake Maternity Home

Under the direction of the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society. Graduate nurses in attendance. Prices from $45.00 to $55.00 for 12 days. Everything complete. Hospital service and home-like atmosphere.

404 E. 56th So. Tel. Murray 476

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

CONTENTS

The Madonna with St. Jerome Frontispiece
Her Christmas Gift Katharine C. McKay 63
Dahlias to Love Harrison R. Merrill
Santa Claus by Adoption Silas L. Cheney
For Christmas (Poem) KateThomas
Mom's Vacation Elsie C. Carroll
Thoughts (Poem) Helen M. Livingston
"Verse of Our Day'' Lais V. Hales
The Making of Personality Claire Stewart Boyer
Snow-Covered Pines in the Rockieg
Relief Society Conference Julia A. F. Lund
Expansion of Interest in Terms of ChildWelfare Jean Cox
The Weman at the Well Ada Taylor Graham
Editorial—"'Our Joyfullest Feast'"
Evan Stephans
"The Life Story of Brigham Young
Guide Lessons for February
The Virgin and Child with St. Paul and St. George 698

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15e Single Copy
mtered ag second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123

 VOL. XVII DECEMBER, 1930 NO. 12 =e THE MADONNA WITH ST. JEROME THE Relief Society Magazine VoL. XVII DECEMBER, 1930 No. 12 Her Christmas Gift By Katharine C. McKay T was dusk when Amy Tremaine /brought in the last load of wood for the big porch box. Large flakes of snow were beginning to fall, softly, just as they had last evening and Amy sighed as she thought of the paths to be made on the morrow. No need to worry about that tonight, though, the evening ahead of her was her own. Her chores were all done, the cows milked and fed, fresh hay down for the horse, pigs and chickens cared for and enough wood in the porch box to last at least a day—nothing to do till tomorrow. Amy shook the snow from her old felt hat and mackinaw and hung them on the nails reserved for that purpose. Her heavy overshoes she placed carefully beneath them. The warm fragrant air that greeted her as she opened the kitchen door reminded her of the cake in the oven. She hurried to the stove and flung open the oven door quickly, "My land, I forgot all about it—. Well thank goodness it isn't burned." She carried it to the table pleased with its rich brownness and delicious aroma. "Imagine making a cake that size for me. 'Well anyway," and Amy smiled to herself as she said it, "It'll probably do me for this Christmas and the next so I won't need to make a cake for a year." She filled the stove with wood, pushed her soup kettle to the front of the stove and then pumped up and lit the gasoline light, strained the milk and carried two foaming pans to the cold little pantry. She hesitated a moment over a cloth for her table—this old blue print one or a fresh linen one for tonight? The decision was for the linen one. Why shouldn't she celebrate once a year and that on Christmas eve? She brought a lovely cloth, redolent with cedar, from the chest in her room and selected from her plants the gayest of them all, a flaming red geranium for the centerpiece. One knife, one fork, one spoon, a plate marked her place. The fire was burning briskly, the soup bubbling -merrily and the kitchen filled with warmth and comfort. Amy drew an old rocker to the stove —"Just a minute," she coaxed herself, "The rest will make my appetite better." Selecting the January edition of her favorite magazine she sank down in the soft old cushions. How tired she was. She hadn't realized it until now. The paths, of course —shoveling through two feet of snow was a bit hard on a woman of fifty. She'd get Henry Steele or some other little boy to help her tomorrow. With a sigh she lay back in her chair and closed her eyes. Was 638 it because she was so tired that she felt so terribly lonely? "I'm celebrating tonight," she told her hard old self, whimsically, "'so T'll weep if I want to and I'll fairly revel in feeling sorry for myself. It's a treat you never allow me. To begin with —I'm terribly, miserably lonely— there isn't a person closer than a half mile—oh I know I have a home, better than a good many and a good enough living and I ought to be contented, but I'm not. I want someone of my own—my very own. Oh," Amy's eyes filled with tears, "If I could just have a baby, a warm, snug, soft little baby to cuddle in my arms." "It would be funny," she thought, "If it wasn't so pathetic—I was the only one of our bunch that really wanted a baby— wanted one enough to admit it, that is. The girls called me Victorian, said it 'was indecent to think about such things let alone talk about them—that nobody had families now-a-days. But I declared I would have a baby anyway and 'was going to accept the first chance I had. Here I am, grumbling along all alone and every one of them has a home filled with children. Every one of their homes will be filled with Christmas packages tonight, and rows of empty inviting stockings, shimmering, glimmering trees, merry laughter. I could go to any of them, yes, but they wouldn't be mine. I want something of my own—oh why couldn't I have just one baby? It was all I ever ere wanted." MY Tremaine's life had never been very happy except with such joy as one can get for service. Faithfully she had served and well and now that she was needed no longer she was left alone. First there had been her Mother —that sweet hard working little RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE soul, who had wakened one morning, when Amy was still a girl and wondered why there was no light. She wondered ail day and tried and hoped and prayed to see and when night came had surrendered to the inevitable and Amy's care. How devoted the girl had been. Never once did she allow a thought of herself to interfere with the care of her mother. Volume after volume she read to her. Every day when the weather permitted, she led her on long walks cautioning her about uneven paths, explaining the beauty of the scene, chattering gaily about everything and nothing to keep her mother happy and contented. Every one remarked about Amy's devotion—everyone thought it noble, wonderful in this day of thoughtless children, but no one offered to help make her burden lighter. Perhaps she might have married —she was pretty enough, sweet, attractive, charming when she wished to be but she resolutely put all thought of marriage aside and offered nothing but discouragement to those who sought her thinking always of her dear, blind little mother. In Amy's thirtieth year Mrs. Tremaine died and Amy, released from long, strenuous service, blossomed out into beautiful womanhood— gayer, brighter, fairer now than she had ever been. She was wooed by every eligible male in the countryside and at last gave her consent to one, Theodore Worley, a good man, good looking, clean, substantial. He would give Amy a fine home. Everyone in the little town was glad for Amy and she was supremely happy. (ee winter Jed Tremaine, who had made love to every girl he had ever met, yet had never married, nearly died with inflammatory rheu- HER CHRISTMAS GIFT matism. By April he was better but still 'bed-ridden so Amy postponed her marriage until fall. All during the summer she nursed Jed faithfully. His strength returned very slowly. Sometimes in bad weather his body, bent and cramped, ached so terribly that every effort he made to straighten even a finger brought forth a tortured cry. Amy did all the work of the little farm. Her soft white hands became rough and coarse, her hair she slicked close to her head and pushed up under an old hat of Jed's, her pretty clothes were put aside for overalls. What little time she could spare in the house she gave to Jed. When Theodore Worley came she released him from his promise. "I couldn't leave for another six months, anyway," she said, "And I can't hold you that long." He vowed she could and that he would wait forever for her but the next spring he married someone in town. Jed never got entirely well. Some days he tried to be of use outside but always after any particular exertion he spent the following day or days in bed. So eventually the entire care of the farm and of Jed came into Amy's capable hands. Sometimes when Jed 'was particularly trying or the work seemed more than she could manage she was on the point of giving it all up, of selling the little farm and moving into town. Living would be of the most frugal nature, no milk, no eggs or even comforts for Jed but at least she would be near someone. Then always she became ashamed of herself. 'Was she a weakling that she could not care for a small farm and a brother? There was another reason, too, why Amy clung to the old farm, another reason why life seemed to hold promise of something brighter. 639 HE fall before Jed was so sick, the "Poplars," the name the townsfolk had given the estate next to Amy's farm, was undergoing a complete renovation. The shambling, old fashioned house was being remodeled and modernized for the new residents. For twenty years the house had stood empty, the windows boarded, the gates leading to the drive, barred. Rank undergrowth covered the yard. Gardeners, plumbers, builders, came from the city. The little village was agog with the greatest excitement it had ever known. But Amy, her mind on something far more pleasant, had paid no heed to the comings and goings of her nearest neighbors. Not until Theodore Worley returned to the city and Jed's demands and complaints drove her nearly frantic did she turn to her neighbors and neighborhood gossip for solace. One day she saw a car come up the drive with David Worthen, the last of a famous old family, and a frail, doll-like little lady beside him whom gossip said was his new wife, coming here to regain health and strength. That was the only time Amy ever saw her. After a time there were nurses from the city, then doctors, then news that the Worthen's had been blessed with a baby boy. An evening sometime later Mr. Worthen himself brought a little parcel to Amy's back door. "I hate to trouble you, Miss Tremaine," he said, "But I'd appreciate it very much if you would care for my little David tonight. His mother is very, very ill. His nurse was taken with a severe cold and had to leave for town this morning. No other help can be spared now. A new nurse will come out on the. Morning train." 640 Would she care for him? She almost snatched the bundle from the man's arms. All night she sat _ rocking the baby, crooning softly and when in the morning the grief stricken father came for him she could hardly bear to give him up. She saw him occasionally after that always closely guarded by nurses. Mr. Worthen had decided to keep the house open just for the boy, coming out himself when business permitted.. When David Worthen was four he escaped the vigilant guard of his nurse one day and climbed through ' the fence to the Tremaine's barnyard. It was one of Jed's good days and he was puttering around the chickens and pigs trying to do something worth while. The baby, out of his element was fascinated by all he saw. Amy fotind him hanging to the chicken wire shouting in glee at the antics of the fowls. She took him in the house, washed his hands, and producing a cookie jar let him reach in and take one himself. "I'm always going to have a few cookies in there for you, David," she told him, "So if you do happen to come over you won't be disappointed." It happened just as Amy hoped it would. David eluded his nurse at every turn and made for the Tremaine's pantry and cookie jar until that conscientious woman was nearly beside herself. She made haste to report to Mr. Worthen but he only laughed. Said. "He'll never come to harm over there." The day before Christmas, David was there as usual and discussed in his serious way the coming of Santa Claus and his hopes for the big day. "Do you hang up your stocking, Aunt Amy?" "No, David,' she said seriously enough though Jed was nearly convulsed with mirth. "Let him go," he RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE "I don't see why not. I'm sure Santa would bring you something." Jed started to reply but Amy interposed, "I tell you what I think would be fun, David. Ill let you have a stocking that I used to use when I was a little girl and you can hang it over here. Maybe that will start Santa Claus coming our way." " he delved into an old trunk and at length produced a white cotton stocking decorated with red bands and lots of tiny tinkling bells. The boy clapped his hands in delight. "Goody, Goody, Goody. Where'll I hang it?" After much deliberation he selected a place and with great ceremony and much seriousness fastened it up. The next morning he gave his magnificent tree and expensive presents only a passing glance and hastened to Tremaine's for his surprise stocking. The cheap little toys, purchased from the town general store were more than ample to satisfy him. Amy and Jed laughed as they hadn't laughed for years at the funny remarks and eager enthusiasm of the boy. When he had to leave at last he left the stocking with Amy. "You keep it here, Aunt Amy, and I'll come every Christmas eve to hang it up." And so he had. Vee after year Amy watched him. Saw him grow from babyhood to boyhood, from boyhood to youth. Every summer he spent sometime at the Poplars and always he and his Dad came out for Christmas. "It wouldn't be Christmas without my stocking," he told her once. When he was ten his stocking held a box of crayons and a rude set C of drawing cards. He discarded the cards and on an old notebook HER CHRISTMAS GIFT made some really clever sketches. Amy marveled at them—David laughed, "They're nothing," he said, "T can draw lots better than that. I'll show you my book sometime. It's got all my best drawings in it." Two years later Amy gave David the best water colors she could buy. The boy was delighted. "Aunt Amy, you darling. How do you always manage to get just the thing I want? You must be thinking about me all the time. I'd rather have these than anything I know—and such beauties too. Gee you're good to me." "It's because I love you so much, David." -Amy's voice was low and sweet and the boy glancing up saw that her eyes were filled with tears. He took her rough hand awkwardly, "I love you, too, Aunt Amy. You can always bank on me." It was the only time affection was ever mentioned between them but Amy knew the boy's love for her was deep, true and lasting—as for her— the very thought of him brought a sob to her throat. She could not have cared more for him had he been her own. Occasionally after that he sent her sketches and during his summers at home they spent long hours together. She tramped the woods with him seeing beauty where she had never guessed it to be before, stopping to gaze at a sunset sky until the beautiful colors merged into a dull gray, exclaiming, over the grace and symmetry of a tree, spending hours just looking and seeming to inhale the beauty around: her. Sometimes she took a book and read while David sketched; at other times she was content just to sit near him and watch him as he worked. AIlways he asked her opinion before he completed a picture: Once she said to him, "The back- - ground is beautiful. David. It looks as natural as life. I can almost hear 641 the wind in those trees. But your animals—all of your animals are terrible. You haven't the right perspective or whatever you call it have you? Now if you notice Landseer's dogs—" "Landseer,' David interrupted, "Aunt Amy, what in the world do you know about Landseer?" "Not much," Amy admitted, "And I don't know a great deal about art, either, David, but if you take my advice you'll stick to landscape. Some of your sketches are very fine. I have high hopes for you." "Oh Aunt Amy I have for myself, too. No one but you knows I even try to paint and no one is going to know either until I do something that is really good. Then I'll burst into fame over night—the boy wonder—the child Rembrandt, or Murillo or even Landseer, maybe, who knows. You're going to be proud of me someday." David laughed and Amy pleased with his boyish exuberance laughed too, "That will be to make others proud of you, David. I am proud of you right now and have been ever since the first time I ever saw " you. Ay TER Jed died Amy spent all her leisure time preparing for and looking forward to her visits with David. She read everything she could find on art, even took a correspondence course in art appreciation that she might better assist him in his work. David's joy and his pleased astonishment at some of her criticisms and suggestions more than repaid her for her effort. One Christmas he came dashing over, hardly entering the house before he exclaimed, "It's wonderful, Aunt Amy, couldn't have turned out better," and before the amazed Amy could question him, "I told Dad all 642 about it, my painting, you know— he's some sport—I thought he'd be mad or at least disappointed but he wasn't, not a bit—said I could have the Poplars for my own, he'd settle enough on me for a comfortable living and maybe if I finish school this spring, I can have a year abroad. I'm going to fix that big south room upstairs into a studio and—" the boy stopped, breathless, and turned to the woman standing very still beside him—'My land, Aunt Amy, you're not going to cry are you? Why don't you shout or sing or dance? Aren't you glad?" "Oh David, boy," she answered tremulously, "I'm too glad to do any of those things. I'm too glad for even words." But the plan never. Materialized because David had gone to a New Year's party in town and had met and after a whirlwind courtship, married Marcia Day. He left school and brought Marcia to the Poplars and Amy, going over two days after they arrived was surprised to find their 'boxes still unpacked and Marcia repacking a trunk. "Why David," she said, "You're not going back already?" "T''ll say we are." It was Marcia who answered, "If I have to stay one more day in this God forsaken dump I'll go mad." "It is kind of quiet here," David admitted, "Not like Marcia's used to," he told Amy and to Marcia, "You'll like it better in the spring, dear." "Like it?—I'll say I won't. I never hated a place so much in my life and if you think, David Worthen, that you'll get me here in the spring or summer or any other time for that matter you're mightily mistaken." She banged the trunk top down and sat on it to hold it there, "Hurry and fasten it. That -least for the summers. 'RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE man said he'd be here for the things at four." "But David,' Amy protested, it was all so sudden, so upsetting, "What about your art?" The moment she said it she regretted it. David's art was sacred to her. "Art? Pooh," Marcia jumped up and flung herself out of the room. David shrugged, "See how it is, Aunt Amy?" he smiled and then sobered instantly and led Amy to a couch seating himself beside her with one of her hard worn hands held closely in both of his long graceful white ones. "I just adore Marcia—she's a wonderful girl, Aunt Amy when you really know her. She isn't used to so much quiet and solitude and it sort of got on her nerves right now. She's lots different usually. And isn't she pretty? I could be hanny forever just looking at her. The money Dad settled on me won't begin to keep us in town so Marcia's father has offered me a most acceptable position in his bank, mighty decent of him, we're going to take a little apartment and just enjoy life and each other. It's what Marcia wants so I want it too." "But boy—" David interrupted, "I know, you think I'm giving up all my dreams and ideals and all that, Aunt Amy, but I'm not. Marcia exceeds my fondest dream right now and always will but I don't intend to quit painting; for a while, maybe, just till we get adjusted to the new order of things; then I'm going to dabble at it a little in my leisure time and when Marcia gets tired of playing around, she will you know, before long, we'll come out here again, at Doesn't that sound all right?" "Tt sounds just fine, David, and HER CHRISTMAS GIFT I'm so happy for you and so glad you found a lovely girl like Marcia. There is nothing more wonderful than young people in love starting out life together." Amy rose to go and David took the brown leathery face in his hands and-bent to kiss the thin pale lips, "I knew you'd understand. You always do. We will be back soon. Goodbye—" "Godbye, David. Tell Marcia to take care of you. I'll be expecting you about summertime,' and Amy hurried down the walk to the haven of her own closed doors before the storm she was having such difficulty to stem should break. X ok x ape roaring fire had burned to embers then to a soft white ash. Winter chill had crept into the room, the light sputtered occasionally as if protesting overwork, a yellow crust of grease had formed over the untouched soup. The woman did not stir. There was no sound in the room but the faithful ticking of the old clock.. Some one tramped on. To the porch and knocked loudly at the door. Still the figure in the chair remained motionless. The door opened to admit a man covered with snow, one arm laden with bundles the other dragging a heavy suitcase. "Aunt Amy, you old darling. You have never failed me yet. Imagine sitting up for me till this time of night." The man dropped his suitcase, laid his bundles down carefully and ran to the side of the sleeping woman. She sat up with a start. "David," she cried, you're a dream?" "T certainly am not," he denied vigorously, "I'm very much here, very much frozen to death and so hungry I could eat a farm." "Oh David, boy, I've been want- "David, bundle to Amy. 643 ing you so terribly." She rose trembling and put her hands on his shoulders. He put his arms around her and held her close. 'I'm covered with snow but you don't care, do you? I knew you would want us Aunt Amy and we didn't have any place to go but to you. Will you keep us?" "Us? David." She looked around him around the room then back into his smiling eyes. He loosened his arms and going to the chair brought a warm little "My traveling companion," he said, "we've been stalled for six hours and she is the best little sport you ever saw." "A baby, David? A baby?' Amy's shaking hands were trying to undo the multiple coverings. "Let me show you," David tore the blankets back. "No, cover her up till I get a fire. Here give her to me. Oh, David, isn't she lovely?' Amy took the precious little thing in her arms and held her close to her breast to check the sob rising there before she put her back into the chair. In a moment she had the fire burning, the soup set to warm, some preserve and cold milk from the pantry and a chair drawn up to her unused place. David, dropped into her rocker, seemed content to just sit and watch her. At length Amy asked, "What about Marcia?" David hesitated, "I hardly know how to tell you. We just couldn't make it. We tried awfully hard. I guess we aren't suited to each other. I'm exceedingly slow and Marcia— well she craves speed. I hoped the baby would make us both different and unite us. They are supposed to do that aren't they? But it only made matters worse. Marcia was pretty sick and nervous and mad be- 644 RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE cause the baby was coming. She wouldn't even look at it when it arrived. When she did she said she never saw such a homely creature. Just imagine that, Aunt Amy, about her—our—baby."' Imagine it—Amy with the strongest imagination she could muster could not achieve that. "She's gone abroad now," David finished. "Your supper, David," Amy said - gently. David drew his chair to the table. "How festive,' he said, indicating the geranium, "And a real true Christmas cake. You can't make me believe you weren't expecting me tonight. Supper ready, this is delicious soup, and you waiting up and everything. Did you hang my stocking, too?" "You always do that yourself. I'll get it.' Amy glad for an excuse to leave the room busied herself making a bed for David. It couldn't be possible she kept telling herself over and over, it was too good, too wonderful, her heart was fairly bursting with joy. Calmer at length, she brought the stocking back to David. "Ts it true, David," she said, "Are you really going to stay here?' "Tf you are willing," he answered, "T thought we would move to the Poplars. Ill get that Wood's kid, what's her name, Mamie, to do the house work and her Dad to do the chores. You can take care of the baby and me and we'll take care of you." "And Marcia won't came back, ever?" "She is so glad to be rid of us she will never come near. No need to worry about her, Aunt Amy. She intends to marry again as soon as possible.". "Your room is ready, David. I know you are tired. "T'm all in. I'll go now if you don't mind. Lots of Christmas stuff in those packages," he said, indicating them, "But that can wait until tomorrow." He took a peep at the baby, "Isn't she a darling, Aunt Amy? Guess what I named her?"' "Marcia, of course." "Of course not. She has the finest name in the world for the finest person—Amy." "David you didn't? It doesn't seem possible that I could be so Go to bed now before I cry. He took her face in both his hands and bending down kissed her tenderly, "Good night you dear, good, sweet Aunt Amy. Cry if you want to and take care of your namesake. The house now quiet Amy fixed the fire again, cleared the table, removed some of the coverings from the baby, filled the bottle with fresh milk and set it in warm water to have it ready and wiped up the snow and water brought in by David. Her spirits were so light she seemed to be dancing. Every minute or two she took a peep at the sleeping baby humming and singing to herself, wanting to shout her joy. At length the baby stirred, uttered a faint little cry. Immediately Amy was at her side. She picked her up tenderly and drawing the old chair close to the fire undid the manifold wrappings. "You can easily see a man has been tending this child," she said as she made her comfortable and gave her the warm satisfying bottle. Light appeared in the east. Amy put the lamp out and sat with the baby in her arms waiting for the day—Christmas morning. She looked down at the warm, beautiful body, hers to keep and to care for and to love. "Dear God," she said softly, "Thank you for giving me the only thing I ever really wanted." Dahlias to Love By Harrison R. Merrill abouts, Mr, J. P. Fugal, of Pleasant Grove, Utah, brought a more or less shriveled up little tuber home to his wife. She placed it tenderly in a flower pot and nursed and cared for it until it grew up into a rather delicate plant which later flowered. Whether it was because the dahlia seemed like an orphan in need of love or whether she was intrigued by the flower I do not know, but the fact remains that for a fifth of a century Mrs. Fugal has been growing and loving dahlias. For much of that time, on account of her skill, her constant boosting of the plants, and her willingness to assist others to grow the gorgeous flower, she has been called "The Dahlia Woman." OD cists, | years ago, or thereWith an eagerness born of devotion to a cause, she has combed the dahlia gardens of the United States and Canada until this fall she reveled in a garden of dahlias which contained more than two hundred varieties of blossoms ranging in size from the dainty little sports with varigated petals and delicately molded pom poms to gorgeous old Chang, a foot in diameter, Bashful Giant, an immense flower of delicate apricot shade, and Jersey Beauty, which raised its gorgeous head eight feet and four inches above the soil from which it sprang. Mrs. Fugal has paid as high as fifteen dollars for a single bulb, but she has loved all sorts, and finds place in her precious garden for any dahlia that reveals any sort of quality of form, coloring, or size, although she isn't satisfied with size alone. The big dahlias must also be refined: and delicate if they are to find place in her affections. What began as a mere pastime has been transformed from a hobby to a life's work, almost. During the twenty years since Mrs, Fugal got her hands on that first dahlia tuber, she has reared a family, has seen several of them graduate from Brigham Young University, at Provo, with Bachelor's degrees, and has celebrated the weddings 'of both girls and boys. While she has been engaged in growing refined and mighty dahlias she has also been engaged in rearing refined and mighty children. A SON thirteen years of age is now growing dahlias with all the avidity of his mother. This year he had a splendid garden rivaling in beauty his mother's. They work together like two great lovers of one great cause. Of course, Mr. Fugal is brought into the picture when the hard work is to be done. He says his wife must have grown more than two tons of tubers last year. He ought to know, she says, for he carried them all out of the garden into the cellars. This year he groans—pleasantly, be it said—under the knowledge that she will have -at least three tons of tubers. Since these tubers sell from fifty cents or more each to a dollar or so a dozen, Mr. Fugal feels better about his wife's hobby. Last year the half acre or so of ground produced about $500 in cut flowers and tubers. That was not all clear profit, however, as Mrs. Fugal was continuing her combing of the 646 RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE Photo by W. P. Cottam MRS. J. P. FUGAL IN HER DAHLIA GARDEN dahlia gardens of the country and paid out $150 or thereabouts for choice tubers from prize gardens. "T've heard people say," Mrs. Fugal said, "that dahlias of the large and choice varieties cannot be grown successfully in our Utah valleys. To such people I merely wish to say that they are mistaken, Come with me." She led Dr. Walter P. Cottam and me over to the end of her garden and stood beside a huge dahlia. "Here's a ruler, measure us," she said smiling. We did. The plant stood eight feet and four inches in height—a prodigious height for a dahlia. We measured some of the blooms. There were not a few but many measuring ten inches in diameter, "All dahlias need in Utah is plenty of sunshine, plenty of water, and some good fertilizer," Mrs. Fugal declared. "We use for fertilizer litter from our coops. I have found nothing better." ERE'S a hint from her as to how to care for the tubers. After the first frost cut the stalks off six or eight inches above the ground and leave the tubers for two or three weeks if the frost doesn't strike down too deep. Then dig them and place them in a box of sand—she likes the sand moist—and keep them in a cool place—as near to freezing as may be, safely. That's all. In the spring set them out to sprout, cut them apart, being careful to leave a good tuber with each eye, and set them out to grow. Mrs. Fugal has been instrumental in establishing a number of dahlia gardens. In fact, she has charge of flower culture for her ward in the Relief Society and is kept busy giv- DAHLIAS TO LOVE 647 ing talks and instructing people in loves dahlias and as a result she has the art of growing dahlias. She dahlias by the hundreds to love. Ih. Photo by Cottam A BOQUET OF LOVELINESS Santa Claus by Adoption By Silas L. Cheney T any other season of the chaotic whirl of snowflakes filtering year Dr. Dever would have thickly through the dusky gray atbeen oppressed with a feeling mosphere. But since it was the of melancholy as he sat alone by his twenty-fourth of December he office window and gazed upon a_ smiled as he gazed at this pregnant 648 promise of a Merry Christmas. Even the fact that he waited for patients instead of having patients wait for him was in itself reassuring as it betokened the prevalence of the spirit of good will which led people to think and plan for the happiness of others rather than for their own personal welfare. "Fine! Fine!" he exclaimed as he pressed his well-formed, sensitive hands together and lay back in his chair with closed eyes to enjoy the luxury of visions that were crowding upon him. A door opened and closed followed by the firm, brisk tread of someone in the outer office. "Must be an urgent case," Dr. Dever told himself as he arose hastily and stepped into the waiting room. He stood non-plused at sight of the large, handsome, darkcomplexioned man before him.. The face was strange, yet familiar, causing him to hesitate before committing himself to either, "What can I do for you?" or "Why, hello, old chap! How are you?" The visitor's eyes expressed the silent amusement he enjoyed at the momentary chagrin of the other. "Bet you 'can't guess," he said. Then gradually his features relaxed into a broad grin. "Tom Richardson!" exclaimed the Doctor. "Well! Well! When did you arrive in town? 'You certainly have changed since the last time I saw you. It's more your fault than mine that I didn't know you." "My fault did you say? You're up to your old trick of passing the buck, and as usual I'm the goat. Yet I confess you've aroused my curiosity. Just how have I changed, may I ask?" "Well, you are rather more dignified and sophisticated. You see RELIEF, SOCETY MAGAZINE those splotches of gray about the temples tone down your characteristic schoolboy's complexion giving you a rather distinguished appearance," "Distinguished? That's a good one! Perhaps I've changed but you haven't. You're just as flattering as ever. Still I may have a certain air of distinction if, as some claim, it is acquired by either enjoying or suffering unusual experiences. To this I plead guilty. I've endured hell for the last two years. Jove! But I wish I'd never met that cousin of yours, Ross. She has certainly proved the joy-killer for me." "T'm indeed sorry to hear that. I understood your difficulties were in: the nature of a misunderstanding which a little time would serve to explain and erase." "T thought so, too," replied Tom, "but have been sadly disillusioned, for during all the months of our separation she hasn't made a single advance toward offering an explanation." "And how about you? I presume you have been doing everything possible to bring about a reconciliation?" "T've been waiting, patiently waiting." "Then there have been no advances on either side apparently. Have you ever gone to see her?" "No. Why should I? Goodness knows she has made me suffer enough personally, socially, and professionally to make me disinclined to add to it needlessly." "T suppose you are aware that she is living in this city?" "Yes. I was told of her moving here a short time ago, but haven't her address if that's what you mean." "T'll be glad to give it to you," said the Doctor reaching for his SANTA CLAUS C memorandum book. "I just saw her the other day and had quite a talk with her." Tom held up his hand in warning. "Never mind the address. I don't wish to know it. You see I'm subjected to moments of weakness when I'm afraid I so far forget myself that I would crawl to her on my knees if only I knew where to crawl." Dr. Dever shook his head slowly. What could be done to overcome this stubborn, false pride which made of little domestic troubles a barrier to happiness? After a pause during which each was absorbed with his own thoughts, the Doctor laid a hand on his friend's knee saying quietly: "Tom, it ought not to be impossible for two who love each other to meet on common grounds of sympathy and understanding at such a time as this. Why nct observe this day in the true sp'rit of Christ by manifesting a willingness to forgive and forget." "What do you recommend?" Tom asked dryly. "Knowing Eva as I do I'm ready to confess that I cannot imagine her commiting wilfully any very grievous offense. But she has one fault; she is a slave to her pride. I have never known her to be the first to humble herself before anyone. And I think she would rather die than do so now. Yet she loves you, Tom —she wants you. If you would go to her as you did in your sweetheart days with the suggestion of letting by-gones be by-gones, I am oe your troubles would be at an end." Tom sprang to his feet, a dark scowl marring his handsome face. His eves snapped challenginely and the muscles about his mouth grew taut and hard. Dr. Dever knew what that meant. He had seen him BY ADOPTION 649 wearing such an expression a few times and inevitably it had spelled disaster for the opposition. "You want me to go to her? Never!" Tom exclaimed. "The trouble is I've already gone too often and she's come to expect it. Our adjustments have ceased to be on the basis of compromise. I give and she takes, that's the size vf it. It's just too humiliating for endurance." HR paced about nervously for a minute before resuming his seat half-ashamed, half-defiant. The snow was still falling heavily while from the street sounds of throbbing motors, honking horns and the shuffling of rubbershod feet upon the snowy pavement evidenced that business was still running at its highest. "Look at those lucky devils down there,' Tom muttered after awhile. "They seem to have Christmas cheer stuck about every available portion of their anatomies. Jove! How I'd like to play Santa Claus for my two boys again, though perhaps I never shall. I don't mind telling you that my purpose in coming here is to commence divorce proceedings immediately.: "Ts that so?" asked the Doctor blankly. "Yes," rejoined Tom. "Tomorrow you'll present your wife with a box of chocolates, and possibly some jewelry, while my season's greetings to the wife, coming perhaps a few days late, will be a suit for divorce. Quite the irony of fate, isn't it?". There was no reply. The Doctor sat looking out of the window moodily. If he could only hit upon a plan there might still be hope of preventing a most unfortunate and disastrous occurrence, As he 650 groped about for ideas he was elated by a sudden inspiration which winged its way into his consciousness. With forced nonchalance he asked: "And so you would like to play Santa Claus, would you, Tom?" "Would I? Why there is almost nothing I would rather do. To see my boys' eyes grow large with expectancy and then to have them go into paroxysms of rapture over the gifts presented them have afforded me moments of the purest happiness I think I have ever experienced." "Yes, I know, remember I have kiddies also. Certainly if I were you I would not forego Santa Clausing tonight." Tom looked at him coldly. "I thought I had made myself clear," he said. "Now, old boy, don't go jumping at conclusions. I only intimated that you might be a Santa Claus meaning, of course, a Santa Claus by adoption." "Guess I don't follow you," declared Tom. "I know I'm dense but never suspected before that I was impenetrable. Do you mind explaining?" "Here's the proposition in a nut shell: you want to play Santa Claus but you lack the children. Well, there are hundreds of children in this city who are destined to miss a visit from that venerable old man since they have no father. Why not act as proxy and bring Christmas cheer to a number of unfortunates as well as to yourself?" Tom's eyes gradually brightened as by degrees the uniqueness of such a plan dawned upon him. "Well, by Jove! If it isn't the old brilliant intellect on the job as usual. Just furnish me with three or four appropriate addresses and I'll certainly try out this idea of yours—this Santa Claus by adoption as you call it." RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE The Doctor beamed with pleasure. "Good for you!" he exclaimed. Then glancing at his watch he said, "Four o'clock. We must get busy. Now let me see—supposing you make a trip to toyland while I dash out and get you a classy costume—beard, mask, and all that. Say, but won't it be rich to see you dolled up? Ha! Ha! Meet me here as soon as possible, then we'll run _ out to the house to see the wife and have dinner, after which you can do your stuff." "Agreed." Tom chuckled as he swung out of the office wearing a boyish grin. OUR hours later a closed car drew up in front of 36 Bond Street. After some awkward twisting and pulling Santa Claus alighted 'and proceeded to a little dilapidated house in the rear. The greeting he received from several ragged and half-starved Italian children, cheered and gladdened him He could not understand what they said but their actions spoke a language world-wide. He left with his pack considerably lighter. The next call filled him with strongly conflicting emotions. He was thrilled by the happiness brought to three little fatherless children with the bluest and most astonished eyes he had ever seen and an emaciated mother who plainly was scarcely able to keep the wolf from the door. But at the same time he was sobered by a keen realization of what right-minded people must think of a man who would willingly desert his wife and helpless children as this one had done. Looking at his card of directions he discovered the next address was 128 Hazel Street. This took him to another part of the city, and as he drew up before a small though SANTA CLAUS well-cared for bungalow he was mildly astonished. "Looks as though I'm advancing in society," he thought. "Well, there goes, the water's fine; might as well get wet all over." He rang the bell and waited breathlessly as he heard little feet running across the floor. The door was opened with difficulty, then Tom stood dumbfounded as he gazed into the eyes of his four-yearold son, Bobbie, who hopped about clapping his hands with glee and crying at the top of his voice, "Oh, Tommy, come quick—it's Santa Claus!" So it was a trick. Well he would certainly get even with Ross for this. But Jove! How good it was to see the kiddies. It would be hard but now that he was here he intended going through with the makebelieve. Changing his voice to avoid discovery he asked where their mother was. "T don't know," spoke up Tommy. "She just went out somewhere." If he hurried perhaps he could get away before she returned. "You've been mighty fine little boys all year," he said. "That's why I've come to see you. Now what can I do for you? What do you want more than anything in the world? If I haven't it with me I'll try to send it to you." Tommy, the eldest, became suddenly thoughtful and his voice plaintive as he said: "I want my Daddy to come back." "Me too," piped up little Bobbie. "T asked Heavenly Father to send him but maybe He can't find him 'cause Daddy's not come yet." Tom stood irresolute trying desperately to control his feelings, then abandoning the struggle he tore the mask from his face and sweeping the boys into his arms sobbed conBY ADOPTION 651 vulsively, "My little boys! My darlings!" For a moment the children seemed bewildered then Tommy, followed closely by Bobbie, flung his arms about Tom's neck crying, "Daddy! Daddy!" It was this tableau that greeted Eva's vision as she opened the door. "Tom!" she cried in a trembling voice. Slowly he disentangled the boys' arms and slid them down carefully to the floor before looking at her. How charming—how lovely she was. He could scarcely restrain himself. Striving hard for control he said, "I'm sorry to have troubled you, Eva. I shall try not to have it occur again," and with a look of misery he started for the door. "Tom—Tom, you're not going— you're not leaving me again?" she was at his side tugging at him. Seizing her in his arms he crushed her to him. Moments passed during which they became conscious of strains of music, faint at first but growing clearer and clearer until they could catch the words, "Silent night, Holy night—" "The carolers," "Beautiful, isn't it?" "Yes," he replied simply. "There is beauty all around when there's love at home," and bending over her until their lips met he kissed her tenderly, reverently. She did not answer but her large, expressive eyes filled with tears of joy distilled by the unexpressible happiness which welled up. Within her. "My darling, I am so happy," he murmured huskily. "If this is Christmas Eve what will Christmas be?" "Oh, Tom, it will be just what we make it. Let's—let's make it glorious!" she breathed. . For Christmas," \\\ — \ < By Kate Thomas Because I am a mother, Christmas time Looks different to me. \ When I have put the last thing on the tree I am no longer weary, I can see The early morning and the children's glee. So something coming that I have not now Refreshes me. The many trips to town, the dizzy head, Slip to the background; in their place instead A cruze of comfort for an act well done— A service that gives pleasure to someone. All is so silent. There the tepid snow Lies luminous; and here the candles glow Their wordless message. In this minster dim I sink into a chair and think of Him. \ The anguished head, the every hurt that is, \ V That we, like children, shall have Christmas trees With little lights of faith that softly glow The trust we know. O little Christmas tree, so sweetly bright, You send your flickering beams into our night; And something coming that we have not now Brushes a distant breath across our brow, '—"- And hope renewed sings "'Ave!'' All is right. His were the weary feet, the miseries, N \ j Mom's Vacation By Elsie C. Carroll HEN Uncle Anthony's W check for two hundred dollars came with his characteristic note, "Have a merry Christmas," the Fishers decided to divide the money evenly among the four of them and each take a much desired Christmas vacation. Tony, as a matter of course, would go to Glendon where Madge was at school. He had been considerably worried of late over frequent references in Madge's letters to a certain fascinating young football captain by the name of Ken Halliday. While Tony and Madge were not formally betrothed, he had been sure ever since they used to make mud pies in her Aunt Harriet's back yard, that some day they would keep house in reality. Fifty dollars would take Nell to the district convention of the Business and Professional Women's clubs to be held in Montrose two days after Christmas. She had talked of that convention for weeks. There were so many places Betty wanted to go that she wavered for several days, finally writing to Kate Donnel (whose cousin Phil she had met last summer who was to be a guest at the Donnel home) that she was pleased to accept her invitation. When they asked Mom where she was going, she said that for years she had wanted to visit Janet Langton, an old school friend who continued to send her invitations each year. If she didn't go to Janet's she would run over to Aunt Grace's for a few days. The check arrived on the fifteenth, and there was much excitement in the Fisher household from that time until the twentythird, the date it happened that Tony and the girls would all leave for their trips.' Mom would not go until the day before Christmas. Tony asked the family to give him the amount they had intended to spend for his presents in cash. He explained that he had his eye on a nifty little diamond down in Kimbark's window that he could get for a thirty dollar deposit, and he was determined to put a stop to those perpetual allusions to that insufferable Ken Halliday in Madge's letters. Nell gave him five dollars, explanning that she had intended to make him a silk shirt and that the material would have cost her about that much. Betty came through with another five, confessing that she was tempted to cut it in two because she would simply have to have a lot of new things for herself now she was going to Kate's. Mom, sensing the disappointment in Tony's eyes, supplied the other twenty dollars, figuring that if she went to Grace's instead of to Janet's she 'could make her old coat do until the spring sales. Nell complained so much about her shabby traveling bag, that Mom took back the beautifully bound volume of Keates she had paid six dollars for, for Nell's Christmas present, and bought instead an eighteen dollar bag, reasoning that she could sponge and press her brown crepe and with a new collar make it do a while 654 longer. Nice things meant so much to Nell. Betty's wants were so many that Mom, who couldn't bear to see the children disappointed, lay awake nearly all of two nights trying to devise ways and means for the new party dress with silver slippers and bag to match that anyone, according to Betty, would simply have to have at a house-party at the Donnel home. Already Mom had spent more than her budget allowed for Christmas presents, and she had drawn practically all from her own clothing budget. But she still remembered so vividly how she had longed for a new gown that time, more than twenty years ago, when Betty's father had been coming to spend the holidays with her brother Anthony, that she felt as though nothing mattered quite so much as that Betty should have her outfit. If only Richard could have been spared, these things that meant so much to the children would have been theirs by natural right. It was hard, trying to be father and mother both, but she had made a heroic effort to remain cheerful and courageous under the burden Richard's death had left upon her shoulders, and always there was the satisfying assurance that he was near her, loving her still and trying as best he could to comfort and sustain her. Near dawn of the second sleepless night, the thought came to Mom that if she could endure the smoky, sagging paper on her room for one more year, Betty could have her things; and she went to sleep happy. O*r the morning of the twentythird Tony came down stairs just as Mom was breaking the RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE eggs for the omelet. She gave a little start as he bounded into the kitchen with his customary, "Say, Mom, where's my ln This morning it was one of his military brushes that was missing. He wanted it to put in his bag he was packing. The thing that had startled Mom was the boy's likeness to his father. _Every day he grew more like Richard. The sound of his voice, that quick little shrug of his shoulders, the way he had of touseling his hair when he was excited, that very, "Where's this or that?"—all these reminders hurt her, at the same time they thrilled her. "Have you asked Betty if she borrowed your brush? She was cleaning her coat last night." "Gosh, I might have thought of her." Tony started back to his packing, but he stopped at the foot of the stairs and after a moment's hesitation came back to the sink where his mother was working. "Say, Mom, I guess you couldn't lend me a five or a ten until my next pay day could you? Things might come up that a fellow can't count on you know, and it's tough to have to crawfish before a crowd. I want to show that new bunch of Madge's that Ken Halliday's not the only squash in the garden. I may have enough dough; I have all I ought to spend; Manly gave me an extra ten for a present last night; but gosh I'd hate to be embarrassed. Just an extra five or ten would make me feel safe. It's only until my next pay you know. Could you spare it, Mom?" Mom checked a sigh as she answered a bit hesitantly, "Why, maybe I could spare that much." She knew from past experiences MOM'S VACATION that although Tony's intentions were perfectly good and honest in regard to paying her back when he received his next part-time salary, that there would be so many demands upon his check that she would probably say, as she had said so many times before, "Never mind, Son. That will be all right." "Tt takes so gosh darned much to sport a girl," Tony apologized, as Mom wiped her hands and started toward her room for the money. "But Madge is worth it, don't you think, Mom?" "She's a dear little girl, Tony. I have always loved Madge." As she opened her dresser drawer and took out two of the five dollar bills from her vacation portion, she could hear Tony whistling contentedly as _ he whirled the egg-beater in the mixing bowl. FTER breakfast while Nell was gone to get her credentials from the local president of the B. P. W. C., Betty came to the window where Mom was putting the last few stitches in the altered hem of the blue party-dress. She had in her hand a tissue wrapped box. "Isn't it the darlingest dress?" she exclaimed, touching the filmy material that matched her own shining eyes. "I'm just thrilled to death with it! And that bag is the dearest thing. You do have the best taste, Mumsy! I don't see how you could know just exactly what would suit me the way you do." Mom smiled _ reminiscently. This might be the very dress of her seventeen-year-old dreams. "Say, Mom," Betty's fingers were toying with the tinsel bow on the parcel she held in her hands. "I'm worried to death 655 that Kate will give me something expensive for Christmas. You know Id just feel too cheap for words to give her this little boudoir outfit if she gave me something big you know. I was just wondering, Mom, if maybe you could lend me about ten dollars, so I could get something real nice there in Winchell while I'm waiting for connections. Just so I'd have it, you see, if she should give me something expensive." Betty stood waiting, her eyes caressing the pink rosebuds on the blue girdle. "You see, Mom," she continued, as her mother deliberated, "after Christmas there won't be so many things, and you can take it out of my school allowance - next month or the next when I get caught up. I'd just be embarrassed to death to have Kate showing this dinky little present to her friends—and cousins—if she had given me something expensive." "Why—maybe I can let you have the money," mother answered slowly. "But I think that gift you made for Kate is lovely." "So do I. But you can see, Mom, how it might. Be—can't you? You know her cousin Phil Ashton—and a lot of other swell people will be there, and they'll all be giving her just wonderful gifts you see. NEL did not get back until it was almost time for them to start to the station. Very much excited. "I met June Frandson coming over. Here. She had a telegram from her Aunt Laura in Orton telling her to bring one or two of her girl friends with her when she comes to spend the holidays. She has a great big house and is lonesome, June says. June wants me She was 656 to go. She says she'll come back with me to the convention you see, and that will make another delegate for us. But the main thing is that I'll get to study that library cataloguing system they have in Orton and learn all the things I need to know so I can put the system in here. "It would only cost twenty dollars more to go with June. Mom, couldn't you lend it to me? I know the library board will increase my wages as soon as I get that new system in operation, and here's my chance." "Nell," called Betty from the head of the stairs. "Don't you know it's time we're off?" "Couldn't you, Mom? Real chance isn't it?" "Go on and get your things while I get you the money," Mother said, and Nell rushed up the stairs for her bag and wraps. Their mother stood on the porch and waved the three of them goodbye as the whistle of the approaching train sounded from down the gully. At the gate each of the children in turn halted a moment and called back a final godbye. "Have a good time, Mom." "Don't worry about us." "We'll see you next year." It's a RS. FISHER stood watching them until they were out of sight. Even then she did not move. She stood until the puffing of the train had subsided at the station, and until a shriller whistle and renewed puffings announced that her children were off on their Christmas vacations. At last she slowly turned back into the house, shivering a little as she closed the door. How still it was! The clock seemed fairly to shout at her, RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE She picked up the paper from the floor where Tony had dropped it when he had finished breakfast. She removed Betty's sweater from the living room couch and hung it on the hall tree. She glanced through the kitchen door at the panful of unwashed dishes in the sink. Somehow the stillness of the house and that queer feeling of being alone seemed to recall all the Christmasses she and her family had spent in this home which had never seemed so still before. There had been the first one with just herself and Richard making as merry as two children, the next one with Baby Nell; and others and others with the happiness of childhood expectancy making a glamor over mere commonplaceness; the last one before Richard left them— and the five since that time when she had tried so hard to do the things he would have done;—and now this one—and she was alone. The clock seemed to be shouting that word at her: "Alone! Alone!" it kept saying. Her eyes began to blur, so with her customary resolution she started toward the sink. She had found that work usually sent the blues scampering. As she passed her bedroom door, however, the sight of her open dresser drawer caught her eye. She went in to close it. She picked up the one lone ten dollar bill 'that remained of her brother's gift. Her unshed tears seemed to make it dance mockingly in her hand. Suddenly a wave of overwhelming bitterness swept over her. She was tired. She wanted a rest and a change as much as the children did. [What did they care for her? It was always give, give, give! Her whole life had been made up of doing for and giving to her chil- MOM'S VACATION dren. Did they appreciate it? No! What did it matter to them that they had taken her Christmas money—that she didn't even have enough to go to Aunt Grace's? What did it matter to them that she who loved pretty clothes as much as Betty, must go on wearing her shabby coat and frayed dress, for months. Or that she who loved beautiful things about her as much as Nell, must go on sleeping in this room with its soiled paper? What did anything matter to them just so they had what they wanted? ° Suddenly she felt that motherhood, that life itself was empty and futile. She threw herself upon her bed and began to sob. Each sob intensified her feeling of self-pity, and the more she pitied herself the harder she wept. As she recalled all the sacrifices and hardships of her years of motherhood, she wondered how she had endured them. There had been the winter when Betty was three that all the children had had whooping cough. For weeks she had not known a night's rest. There had been Tony's operation with the complications afterwards and the months and months of anxiety and expense—hills that had cramped them for years. The year of the influenza epidemic seemed like a nightmare to her. Then had come Richard's sickness and the paralyzing shock of his death; and new worries and responsibilities. She had never concerned herself with the financial side of their life while Richard was with them. In his blind consideration he had shielded her from that. It 'had meant mistakes and scheming and terrifying worries after he had gone. There had been other agonizing experiences as well. She shuddered 657 as she recalled Nell's infatuation two years ago for that middle-aged man from the East who had pretended to be an artist—and how near it had threatened to ruin her life. Some of Tony's gang escapades made her go cold when she recalled them, and Betty's impetuous love affairs with every Tom, 'Dick and Harry of their own and neighboring towns. Always it had been work and sacrifice and anxiety on her part. And what had she been given in return for it all—nothing but thoughtless selfishness of which today was a typical example. What did she mean to her children anyway but a drudge, a source to be drained for their pleasure. They hadn't even cared enough about her to realize that they had taken with everything else she had given, her Christmas vacation. Once Mom had given vent to her feelings, the bitterness against her lot grew more and more intense. 'She cried until her head and throat ached and her mouth was dry and parched. She thought of the sink full of dishes and the disordered rooms she knew the children had left upstairs; but she made no movement to get up. What did it matter how the house looked? What did anything matter? She wished she could lie right there and die, leaving the dishes and the disorder for the children to find when they came back. Maybe they would appreciate her when she was dead. Then suddenly she was aware of a presence in the room. She hadn't heard anyone come in, and yet there was someone standing beside her bed. She sat up to see if it were one of her neighbors; but it was neither Bertha Shober nor Angie 'Hartley. She didn't know the woman and yet she seemed strangely familiar. 658 As she was looking at her, trying to recall where they had met, the woman asked quiety, "Are you ready?" "Ready?" Mom repeated. "Ready for what?" "Vour trip." "But I'm not going. There isn't enough money. I gave it to the children." "But I came to take you. Come!" With a vague feeling that she should have washed the dishes and tidied the house before going away, she followed her visitor. Almost instantly they were entering a home she had never seen before. Suddenly she gave a little cry. "Why—there is—Richard in the other room and the ch—No! 'Why —it's—it's Tony—and Madge!" "Yes. And those are their children. See how happy they are." "What a fine man Tony is. How much he is like Richard. I must speak to him and to those lovely children." "Not now. We must go." Reluctantly she followed her guide. While she was still wondering who this woman could be, they entered a large white building. On all sides of the long room the walls were lined with books. People were seated at tables reading. In a little alcove off from the main room a group of men and women sat talking. "Why, there is Nell," exclaimed Mom. "What is she doing here?" "She is having a meeting with the board of directors of the new library. She is presenting her plan for a rural circulation of books that will bring the best reading to be had to every home in the land." How fine she looks—how contented. I must tell her—" Almost in the next breath they were in a lovely home. Beautiful music came to their ears. It was RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE Schubert's Serenade and recalled to Mom the thrill she had felt the time Betty played it the night she was promoted from junior high school. How proud she had been and thankful she had made the necessary sacrifices for Betty to keep on with her music. Through an open door could be seen a dark haired boy at a piano, with another boy standing near with a violin. Beside them was a beautiful woman directing them. "Betty! It is my Betty! 'What is she doing here?" "She belongs here. This is her home. Those are her sons!" "How wonderful! And I used to be so afraid she was going to throw herself away on that good-for-nothing Pete Granger." "We must go now." Reluctantly Mom followed the guide out from the loveliness in which she had been reveling. A moment more and— M OM opened her eyes. For a moment she stared about in bewilderment. Where was she now? A corner of smoked, sagging paper convinced her she was in her own room. A damp greenback crumpled in her hand made her sit up and rub her eyes. It was only for a second, then she remembered. She sat on the edge of the bed for a few moments staring at the money in her hand. Finally she addressed the bill with conciliation in her voice. "T expect you think I'm a great baby, don't you? Even if you are not big enough to take me to Janet Langton's or to Grace's, you're big enough to help me have a good time right here at home. Let's see—I know. You are big enough to help me make a real Christmas for that bunch of motherless Thompsons down the gulch. And I guess I'd MOMS better get busy giving you a chance to do your Christmas service. I'll bring those kiddies right here. The house won't seem so lonesome, and I won't have time to worry about how abused I am." Mom got to her feet with a new determination shaping itself in her mind. "It's time right now that I begin to understand that it is instinctive and natural for children to seem selfish and ruthless as they go after the things that mean their own future happiness and success. The world is built that way. Parents should know better than to expect their children to pay them for their work and sacrifice. The way that debt is paid is by the children passing on what their parents have done for them to the next generation—to their children. I ought to have had sense enough to see that all the time. I guess Nell and Tony and Betty aren't the monsters I was trying to make out to myself they are; they're spoiled some by my—what is it some writer called it—'smother love'—but mostly they're just natural." This new philosophy gave Mom something interesting to think over as she went about her work getting ready for the Thompson children's Christmas party. Soon she was her busy, contented self—outwardly, though there still lingered the ghost VACATION 659 of a longing for at least a little sign that her children recognized what she was doing for them. Her recompense came Christmas morning in the form of a night letter, a telegram, and a special delivery. The first was from Nell. It read: "The Orton librarian will give me three days next week. That twenty dollars means my whole future. You're a treasure, Mom." Tony's was a ten-word slang masterpiece: "Sparkler put skids on Halliday. Your twenty bucks saved day." Betty's was a five page diary of thrills. It ended: "And Mumsy, Kate's cousin— listen while I whisper this in your ear—He's the real prince charming I've always dreamed about. How could I ever have looked at Pete Granger. He thinks my blue dress is a dream and I wish you could have heard him rave over my good taste in the plaque I gave Kate. (Thanks to your ten dollar loan.) Mumsy, you're the darlingest dear in the whole world! Tony and Nell and I were talking about it on the train, and we all made a pre-New Year's resolution that we're going to be worth all you are doing for us. If you don't believe it, just ask Old Lady Future." Thoughts By Helen M, Livingston There are some who live in rooms all elegant, Soft-carpeted and hung with richest tapestry. But whose thoughts, like beggars, walk deserted streets With soiled clothes, and in degraded company. There are some who live in homes of humble mein, Who know what hunger is, and want for worldly things, But whose thoughts, soft-velvet robed with supple forms, Tread stately measures oft, and march abreast with kings. "Verse of Our Day" Gordon and King By Lais V. Hales pleasing book entitled "Verse Of Our Day" appeared off the press. It contained some three hundred and fifty poems representing the work of one hundred and thirty-four modern poets, both American and British. It was compiled by two women, both conducting classes in literature in New York City. They earnestly desired that through their teaching their students should develop a permanent interest in poetry. Having had trouble in linking such poems as Gray's "Elegy" and Goldsmith's "Deserted Village" with the student's experience they decided to bring the student in contact first with the poetry of his own day—to make him realize that there were "living authors." So they assigned as a term problem the compilation of an anthology of modern poetry to be selected both from magazines and books. "Verse Of Our Day" had its inspiration in this student anthology.. Out of many anthologies "Verse Of Our Day" stands out for its grouping method, its great variety, and the general excellence of the poetry included within its covers. The poems of Nature, Love and Friendship, the Sea, etc., are grouped together making comparison easily possible to either student or casual reader. The poetry reflects the tastes and interests of the adolescent. Many are of lyric quality for youth is essentially lyric. There are, however, many of contemplative mood which gives the book variety and universal appeal. As poetry A FEW days ago a rather small rather than poets has been the main aim of the compilers of "Verse Of Our Day" there are many poems of occasional poets. The aim has been to cultivate a taste for good poetry wherever we may find it, by known or unknown writers. Te is no better way to open the door of the child's mind to the beauty of the world around him than through the study of poetry. Poetry gathers the beautiful into words. The child instinctively loves poetry and it depends on the teachers and parents as to whether that love is blighted or developed. William Blake once said: "JT will give you the end of a golden string, Only wind it into a ball, It will lead you in at heaven's gate Built in Jerusalem's Wall." Whether the child will wind that golden string all through life will depend upon the way it is presented to him. All children should have access to a good anthology in which he may browse at his will. We have received more comfort, inspiration, intellectual and emotional experience, through poetry than any other literary form. Certain it is that poetry has a place in the life of every human being. Thomas Carlyle wrote—"We are all poets when we read a poem well." Just as truly we are poets when we respond to the beauty, rhythm, or thought of good poetry. Wee rise to the heights of the poet as we read: VERSE OF Red Geraniums "Life did not bring me silken gowns, Nor jewels for my hair, Nor sight of gabled, foreign towns In distant countries fair, But I can glimpse, beyond my pane, a green and friendly hill, And red geraniums aflame upon my window-sill. "The brambled cares of every day, The tiny humdrum things, May bind 'my feet when they would stray, But still my heart has wings While red geraniums are bloomed against my window-glass, And low above my green-sweet hill the 'gypsy wind-clouds pass. "And if my dreamings ne'er come true The brightest and the best, But leave me lone my journey through T'll set my heart at rest, And thank thee, God, for home-sweet things, a green and friendly hill, And red geraniums aflame upon my window-sill." —Martha Haskell Clark. We feel through this short poem the personality of its author; her love of beauty, her beautiful soul, her thankful attitude for "homesweet things." If her life is to be passed alone she will thank God that she has been allowed, "A green and friendly hill, "And red geraniums aflame upon my window-sill." We are not only touched and inspired by the poetry but also by the thought expressed. About good poetry there is something universal. We have all some vain regrets, some cheated desire. As we read this poem we rise to the noble, sacrificial attitude of its author. Ww eee is poetry? Poetry is old, so old that we have no history of poetry. It is so old that no man knows how and why the first poems came. We have old poems, some so old no man knows how far they go back in OUR DAY 661 time. Nobody knows who wrote them or whether they were first spoken centuries before they were written down to meet our eyes in books. What is poetry? Much has been written in an effort to explain what it is. Walt Whitman says— "The poet is the answerer" but what is the answerer. Another poet has said poetry is "emotion remembered in tranquility." As yet we have no adequate definition of poetry. What is poetry for any given individua: depends on that individual and what his personality responds to as poetry. What is poetry for one person is not for another. Because, as the leaves of the forest, no two of us are alike, we should have access to much poetry by many authors. Anthologies of poetry offer us just this. Because they are colored by the personalities of the compilers we should read from a number. We cannot measure the good derived from reading poetry. \We watched a child of tender years enjoy Lowry Nelson's three beautiful lines: "The silver river; Robbed of summer volume, Tries in vain to spread its pebbled ~ nest." We were almost awed by the look upon the face of that child. Not long ago we watched a silver-haired lady wrapped in the beauties of AS IN A ROSE-JAR "As in a rose-jar filled with petals sweet Blown long ago in some old garden place Mayhap, where you and I, a little space Drank deep of love and knew that love was fleet; Or leaves once gathered from a. Lost retreat By one who never will again retrace silent footsteps—one whose gentle ace Was fairer than the roses at her feet; 662 "So deep within the vase of memory I keep my dust of roses fresh and dear As in the days before I knew the smart Of time and death. Nor aught can take from me The haunting fragrance that still lingers here— As in a rose-jar, so within my heart." One of the best ways to interest people in the great poetry of the past is through the poetry of the present. "Verse Of Our Day" will do much for those who think poetry is difficult or dry. They will find here a poetry which touches so RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE closely their own thoughts and feelings that they are comforted and inspired. Life always looks grander, braver, fuller of worth-while things to the man or woman who reads. The poet sees, creates, and sings. After reading— "More soft than press of baby lips They fleck the russet willow-slips Before the bluebirds hither wing— These first, faint footfalls of Spring." how much more one sees in the pussy-willows. Thus poetry enriches our lives in a thousand ways. The The Making of Personality Bliss Carman By Claire Stewart Boyer HE Making of Personality" by the late Bliss Carman, American poet and author, is a poetic yet practical book on the development of personality. "All of life," he says, "is a mere setting for the infinitely intense and enthralling drama of personalities." Making the most of ourselves is the end to which we were created, therefore it is our main business to understand the nature of personality, to appreciate its possibilities and to develop it. Personality is threefold in composition: physical, mental and spiritual. Definite training in morality, intelligence and physique is the plan of procedure he recommends. Inasmuch as we both get and give our impressions of personality through its physical expressions, it is natural that the physical side should be emphasized. The making of personality begins with learning to breathe and move. Many people breathe improperly and grace of movement is rare among civilized peoples. POE is an ideal of personal culture and can be achieved. It begins with good posture and completes itself in graceful, rhythmical movement. The best standing position is one in which the weight is upheld and fore-carried over the ball of one foot while the other foot is dropped a little back, resting lightly to help balance and ready to swing forward at need, the knees being slightly flexed and never thrown flatly back. A distinctive requisite of good living poise is that the weight of the body should be carried lightly, with elation, with spirit, with elasticity. The habit of good motion gives us greater ease and efficiency for work. We must be able to stand firmly but unrigidly as the trees stand in the wind; we must be able to move without thought or hindrance as animals move. A perfect foot is the beginning of beauty as a fine caste of the head is its crowning attribute. Our entire symmetry and poise and vigor depend largely upon our development and use of our feet. Mental and spiritual demoralization result from hurting feet. The sorcery of the hand is also THE MAKING OF PERSONALITY revealed. There is love in the voice, understanding in the eye, but in the hand there is a touch of sympathy out of which human relationships are made. [* mental development the value of instinct and the proper use of reason are important factors. Instinct would make us lords of ourselves instead of slaves of fashion. Reliance upon instinct relieves one of self-consciousness, of worry; it lends distinction and charm to any personality. Instinct pronounces judgment on the value of opinion and the worth of experience. Reason should be the pilot of our lives, to keep us from extreme winds of passion and wayward tides of thought. S PIRITUALITY is recognized by personal vibrancy. The person who is in tune with the infinite, whose soul is chiefly concerned with goodness, sends out waves of spirituality to his fellows, which they recognize. This personal vibrancy is more powerful than beauty, more effective tthan intelligence. Only those who have responded to life's griefs and raptures are mellowed 663 instruments from which the music of life may come in spiritual strains. Love of Nature and appreciation of the fine arts also intensify the personal tone. One of the most delightful touches of spiritual culture is good manners. To live without manners would be as detrimental to the soul as it would be to the body to live without exercise. And finally joy must be nurtured in the soul. Genius is the spontaneous coordination of inspiration, aspiration and execution; it requires for its perfect development the most harmonious culture of the spirit, the intelligence and the senses. He is master of his world who can both plan and achieve, who keeps his plans within bounds of the achievable and brings his achievements up to the requirements of his plans. "He who espouses perfection Must follow the threefold plan Of soul and mind and body To compass the stature of man." In a symmetrical cultivation of all our powers, in a balanced exercise of all our faculties the treasure of personal happiness is likely to be found. Pietomty=Glen Pemins SNOW COVERED PINES IN THE ROCKIES Relief Society Conference Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary HE semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, October 1 and 2, 1930. Four sessions were held. The opening meeting in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, Wednesday morning at ten o'clock was for general and stake officers; the afternoon session on Wednesday and both sessions on Thursday were in the Assembly Hall on the Temple Block, and were open to the general public. All of the twenty-three General Board members were in attendance. Seventy-eight of the one hundred four stakes were represented by 368 officers and board members. There were also six mission presidents in attendance. President Louise Y. Robison presided at all of the meetings. The music was in charge of the chorister, Lizzie Thomas Edward. Special features were: contralto solo, Mrs. Cora H. Ballif; solo, Mrs. Evangeline Thomas Beesley; The Chaminade Chorus, directed by Prof. Anthony C. Lund; violin solo by Prof. Reginald Beales, accompanied by Mabel Borg Jenkins. Brother George Minns was at theorgan. PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON G INCE we met six months ago much rich experience has come to all of us. I have visited many of the stakes and some of the missions, have seen the splendid work of the missionaries, and of women born and raised in the Church and also of others who, as converts, have embraced its teachings. I wish to tell you how dearly the General Board, my counselors and I, love you and all other Relief Society sisters, how much we appreciate the wonderful effort you are making in the very wide field of your endeavor. May the blessing of our Father in heaven be with you during this conference, and in all your work. A fine piece of work was done for some of the underprivileged children of Salt Lake, forty-four of whom were entertained by the Oneida and the Logan stakes during the summer. The little children were taken into the homes of the Relief Society sisters and cared for with loving kindness. We are most grateful for the hospitality shown these children and for the generosity of the Salt Lake City stakes who have defrayed the traveling expenses. It is a marvelous opportunity for the children, and we cannot overestimate the benefit to them. In addition to this fine work done by Oneida and Logan, we were able to send nine children to the Tuberculosis Camp in Big Cottonwood Canyon. These little ones were tuberculosis contacts or those who had the disease in its incipient stage. Much improvement was noted in these children too. There are two reorganizations to report. In the Blaine stake, Sister Mirtis Cooper, who had made a most capable Relief Society president, was released to take up other duties in the stake, and Sister Jennie Sanford was made Relief Society stake president. In the Blackfoot stake, Sister Flora H. Johnstone, who for many years had been one of our, stalwarts in Relief Society work, due to the illness of her hus- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE band was released from the position of stake president, and Sister Mary Bills was called to take the position. We acknowledge with grateful appreciation the services of these retiring sisters, and pray that the blessings of the Lord will be with them. We extend our greetings to those who are taking up the work, and our support and prayers are with them. During the last summer it was my privilege to attend some of the vacation camps for women in Idaho, which were held under the supervision of the Agricultural College. A. Very splendid work is being accomplished, and the objective— recreation, education and inspiration were all realized by the women who were fortunate enough to be in the group, among whom were many of our Relief Society members. It was my pleasure to participate in their discussion and to share the camps with these sisters. In response to requests for the publication of the names of our committees we say that the work is greater than any person or committee, and whatever is sent out goes from the General Board as a whole. According to the schedule arranged for our Relief Society stake conferences, a two-hour luncheon period is allowed. It has been suggested that this might be cut to one hour. This saving of valuable time would be a great advantage to the women of the stake and would enable the visiting General Board representatives to make better return connections. We never wish to leave until our work is entirely completed, but busy women as we are, we are anxious to return home as quickly as possible. Many stakes have asked for instructions in reference to free sewing for burial. This is an old custom and a very beautiful one if not — 665 carried too far. There are, how-: ever, some striking examples of real hardship, not to say injustice, being worked upon our willing sisters through this custom, This is what we wish to prevent. Sewing is a class of service which may be given as charity, but like anything else, it should not be given except where there is a definite need. Those who can afford to pay should do so, as they would for anything else. I hope that the Relief Society sisters will never let anything stand in the way of their looking after the people who are in sorrow, but they go with a loving spirit which is more than financial help, and a price can never be set upon the succor and comfort they carry. We should like to call attention to the Cottonwood stake maternity hospital, which is being so ably and so successfully conducted. Sister Bagley and her co-workers were responsible for its founding, and her successors in office have carried on so well that today we are very happy to express our appreciation for their efforts which are the means of accomplishing so much good. There is another movement in the field of health education which we wish to most heartily endorse, and that is the course in home hygiene and care of the sick given by the American Red Cross. This great national organization acknowledges its indebtedness to the Relief Society for the fine cooperation in their work. There are three or four stakes where the splendid results are in evidence, and we stronglv recommend our women to avail themselves of this fine opportunity whenever or wherever it is offered. The question of our relief work is one that is ever with us. We have some stakes where reports come from fortunate wards where there are no needy, but these are 666 more than offset by those where there is great need. We feel very sure that if our sisters where there is plenty, just know of those in distress, they will be willing to contribute toward the relief of the poor. The question of what to do in Work and Business meeting is often answered in just this way: We call your attention to the plan that was suggested in the April conference department meeting. We wonder if the General Board members and stake officers have made their contribution of the articles for which the plan called. We can never get very far unless we begin by doing it ourselves. We sincerely hope the women have not forgotten the Relief Society has pledged itself to stand firmly for prohibition, and this fall we must not fail to uphold our standards. There is powerful opposition to it, but we feel that our women may be depended upon to use their franchise wisely. During our stake conferences we have spoken of the great service of Susan B. Anthony in the cause of women. Her belief was, that if women had the ballot, the great evils from which people suffered would be corrected. Let us therefore use our franchise in a manner which will justify the faith Miss Anthony had in us. The Church authorities and the Presiding Bishopric have given to the Relief Society a very special piece of work to do. All the bishops of the Church have been asked to entrust to the Relief Society the investigation of all cases of charity requiring relief work. This great responsibility was given to us last spring, and we keenly sense the need of special training to do this very important work well. The result of careful plannng was to hold a series of institutes covering a peRELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE | riod of six weeks in which a representative from each stake would — be given a course in the fundamental principles of correct social service. These workers would then be able to carry it back to the wards in their stakes. Experience has demonstrated that. A group of 25 is about as large as can be satisfactorily trained at one institute. We expect, therefore, in this educational program, to extend to every stake in the Church the opportunity of sending its representative to one of these institutes. We know that in the past our dear sisters have done most excellent work in the field of charity, but in line with the march of progress we wish to become more efficient and since we can learn much from experience and from scientific methods, it is quite in line with our policy to bring these things to bear upon our work. We have highly trained women here in our office and we wish you all to profit by their knowledge. We feel that it is one of the greatest pieces of work we have ever tundertaken, and we want you to know the details. One very successful institute has just been completed. REPORT OF SOCIAL SERVICE INSTITUTE Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Member of General Board HE class instruction of the institute was under my charge. In making out the program it was aimed to make it just as comprehensive as possible in the time allotted. We had one hour a day in sociology, as that is the real basic course of social work, dealing as it does with human relations, with the development, organization, and function of social service. This course was taught by teachers from RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the L. D. S. University. The second hour was devoted to the principles and technique of case work. We discussed the principles and also cases bearing upon the methods and technique and the proper way of handling the various social problems that all workers meet in their wards. The third hour was devoted to special lectures. These were given by Salt Lake physicians who are pre-eminent in the subject they were asked to speak upon, by university professors, and by other men—men all expert in the special field of social work. These lectures were grouped under special headings. There were ten lectures on health subjects, including medical tradition and ethics, bacteriology and disease, the early detection of physical disease, common diseases and resulting disabilities and treatment, nutrition and principles of growth, maternity and infancy, prenatal care, public health, public and private agencies dealing with health, trend in public health work, social hygiene, and hospital social work. Mental hygiene was given a prominent place. Under this were discussed mental hygiene movement and principles, mental hygiene problems of childhood, mental diseases, the care of the feeble-minded, human behavior, the unadjusted adult, and psychiatric aspects of social work, The third general heading was child welfare, and under this we had character education, the delinquent child, child in the court including dependent, neglected and handicapped children, school problems, and the visiting teacher. The fourth division was the legal aspects of social work, the laws governing child welfare, welfare of women and domestic relations, welfare laws in general, and the types and problems which bring the social worker in social control, 667 in contact with the law, agencies in law enforcement, the place of law the socialized court, the place of the social worker in the law. There were also two excellent lectures on prison problems, including crime and treatment of criminals. In the afternoon from one until two (we did let the women have one hour off for lunch) we had a discussion of required reading which included such books as Social Diagnosis, 'The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble, Our Neighbors, The Charity Visitor, What a Social (Case Worker Should Know About Her Own Community, What is Social Work, and so on—books that are considered as authority in the field of social work. The women reviewed these books and read them and gave them very careful consideration. From two until five every day, those who were taking field work were busy visiting families in all parts of the city. Some of them picked up whole families and took them to doctors for medical examination; they went to the Capitol and discussed plans for rehabilitation with the State agent; they came in contact with as many of our state and county resources as possible in the work. The workers all did wonderfully well. The Relief Society social service department was assisted in the field work by the Family Service Society, which co-operated in training some of the women. We also had an opportunity of giving the women some insight into the way Red (Cross work functions by contacting the Red 'Cross organization here. Visits were arranged to institutions in the state, county, and city, thus giving the women an idea of what resources jwe have in our state and in what we are lacking. 668 COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN COURSE in social service usually covers two years, full-time, but we are trying to give-you a birdseye view in six weeks. Thisseems a long time to those who are called to take the work, especially if they have to leave their homes and children, but we would rather you would not send anyone who cannot stay the full six weeks. Choose women who like the work. It is most important to get people who are interested in it; persons of good judgment and stability are required. In choosing, get people who are fitted for this, who are conservative and can keep things to themselves. People should be chosen who are willing to give up all other activities for this work. In this, we have the approval of President RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE Robison and Presiding Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon. We cannot have professional people to do this work all over the Church, but we want it well done and we are asking for those who will specialize in it, keep track of reform movements in the nation and in the state, and who will be willing to give all the time they have for public service to this particular work. If one gets interested in the training, she is sure to like it. It is also necessary to have women who are able physically to do this work, and are young enough to stand the strain, for it is strenuous and requires much thought and time, so that our recommendation is to get as young women as you can for this type of work. It is well for the stake presidents to bear these things in mind when choosing the stake representative. GENERAL SESSION Assembly Hall October 1, 1930—2 p. M. MRS. JENNIE B. KNIGHT Member of the General Board 4p ug is an age of magazines, so I wish to mention the dear Rehef Society Magazine, our messenger to you, which for the mere trifling sum of 2c a week will enter into your home and help you be a better woman, a better officer, a better teacher, a 'better class leader, and a better member. I was asked for a little information concerning the literary work of the Relief Society from the beginning, going to the bound volumes I was amazed to find the vast scope of the literary courses, in poetry, drama, biography, and so forth. It is indeed a veritable library. Last winter I was asked to be a judge of a retold story contest of the Mutual Improvement Association. Three out of five contestants had taken stories from the Relief Society Magazine. A woman might just as well expect a seamstress to make a beautiful dress without a pair of scissors as to think that Relief Society class leaders can do without the Magasine. The Magazine is a text book. How can we keep up with our adult education if we do not have our text? And no magazine that covers the same field the Relief Society Magazine does, comes at such a nominal fee. - For the young mothers it can be the touchstone to Relief Society work. Perhaps they are not able to go to all the Relief Society meetings, but by reading the Magazine they will feel its spirit, and it will keep them in touch with the organization. To our ward vis- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE iting teachers, it is an indicator of the things they are to discuss in the homes, and will help them to cultivate that much desired art of conversation. In the Magazine there is always something of pleasure and profit. Readers are never disappointed. Articles, poems and stories are all well chosen and timely. The editorials, lessons and reports are all full of instruction. Contact with the Magazine conveys a spirit of high endeavor. It is good to know that thousands of other women with similar aspirations and desires are reading the Magazine and seeking to follow its ideals. Subscribers feel that the coming of the Magazine is like the visit of an intimate friend who brings sympathetic understanding of daily problems and strengthens the resolve to carry on. We hope that you officers will make an enthusiastic canvass for subscribers to the Magazine. Let it not be said that there is one home in your ward where there is a Relief Society member 'who does not have the opportunity of subscribing for the Magazine, that they may not be cheated of the admonition which says, "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning even 'by study and also by faith;" and that they may reap the reward which says, "If any person through his own diligence gains a greater degree of intelligence in this world than another, it will rise with him in the world to come." As women interested in adult education let us not fail to go to the fountain head, namely, our Magazine, and let us remember that our first allegiance as Relief Society women to any magazine is to that of our own organization.; "The Indian Appeal," an address by Julia A. F. Lund; and "The Lamanite in the Gospel Scheme," by 669 President Rey L. Pratt, will be published in a subsequent issue of the Magazine. SAN JUAN STAKE RELIEF |SOCIETY Mrs. Hattie R. Barton, President se San Juan Mission was established in 1880. About eighty families were called from different parts of the state to go to San Juan county and establish friendly relations with the Lamanite people. It has been a long time—fifty years the sixth of last April—since our pioneers first entered the little valley of Bluff. It was fifty years in September since the first Relief Society was organized in San Juan, with fifty-eight members. That sounds like a small beginning, but to me it is a marvel that away from all the outside world, in the little town of Bluff, our pioneer mothers organized that Relief Society. The spirit of the Lord was with them and it has been with the organization ever since. Not the least interesting part of the history of our country is the contact we have had with the Indians. Our stake is situated in the heart of the Indian country. We have always had a special mission there, and we are just now beginning to get results. A number of these Lamanite children are en- - rolled with our own children in our district school at Blanding. It was said that it could never be done, but it is being done. It is marvelous the way the Indian children are re- — sponding to the instruction. It seems now that the predictions that were made concerning the remnant of the house of Joseph is being fulfilled to these little people, and they are in a position now to become white and delightsome. This experiment is so closely related to our Book of Mor- 670 mon study that the Relief Society feels a very special interest in it. The government has established its dormitory at Blanding and is cooperating very splendidly in the work. We are watching this experiment very closely and the eyes of many parts of our great country are on us, for in no other place in the United States are the Indian children going to school under just the same (circumstances and conditions as are these little people in the San Juan stake. This is one very satisfactory way of helping the government to solve its problems and discharge its moral obligation towards the Indian, and it is our way of fulfilling the mission entrusted to our pioneer fathers and mothers. We are a long way from the fine educational centers where there are so many conferences, institutes, clinics and lectures of all kinds, and yet we have our problems and are working for the same end as are you in other parts of our Church. During the summer months our stake board held a Relief Society teachers' institute in each ward as we are so widely separated. Last winter our stake board presented to the public the pageant play "Joseph and His Brethren," which was a great financial and educational achievement. One of the most interesting and valuable projects that we have undertaken, is the preservation of the history of our pioneers and of our organization, taken from private diaries and journals, from ward and Relief Society records. This interesting material is being compiled and in book form it will be a heritage for our children. Each ward Relief Society now has its own meeting place. In Blanding we have the use of the domestic science rooms of the school where there is a small cannery. At RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE times we have a great surplus of fruits, vegetables and meats. We are hoping that this will be the beginning of an enterprise which will enable us to take care of much that has gone to waste and it will also preserve food for winter use for some of our needy families. RIGBY STAKE [RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs. Lettie E. Call, President Be aweeeeS the grounds and the exterior of the homes in our Stake has been very noticeable and has encouraged the refinement and the culture of the people. One of our achievements is the visiting teaching. In some wards 100% is reported, and this, in our farming districts where many miles, in some instances, have had to be traveled in order to cover a teacher's district. Possibly the most outstanding thing we have accomplished in our stake has been our health program. About four years ago our stake board began this special work, and by co-operation with the AntiTuberculosis Association we were enabled the first year to maintain a trained public health nurse for two months. Our efforts have been untiring and we have enlisted the aid of not only the Anti-Tuberculosis Association, but of the Red Cross. The schools and the county. This longer nursing service has been an immense advantage. In the last year there were 227 corrections made besides those by the dentists and the oculist. Through the fine work of our county nurses and the work of the Relief Society members and others, we got before our county commissioners the state law (in Idaho) which provides for a nurse program in the counties. Through RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE this year-round program of nursing, the boys and girls of the future will gain much and the men and women of the future will be healthy and strong. The development of health will form a splendid basis for the improvement of the moral conditions of our communities. YOUNG STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs. L. Nettie Behrmann, President WE live away down in southern Colorado and New Mexico. We have quite a distance to travel in contacting all our people. Some of the roads are not very good, but we are thankful we have the roads to go on. It may be a good thing for us to know what poverty means, but it is a great inconvenience sometimes to be poor. Lack of funds and the scattered conditions of our people create many problems. Some of our organizations have 100% in visiting teaching. One president reported that no matter upon whom they call, the sisters give to charity. We have some good outside friends, too, who donate to us. We have in one of our branches three members belonging to our association who are non-members of the "Mormon" Church, and we have been told that they are anxious and willing to pay their annual fund. In Durango our people work in stores and places of that kind, but most of our stake is composed of farming communities, and we have been thinking that if the brethren and sisters would cooperate and the father would say to the mother at twelve o'clock on Tuesday, "Mama, I will stay and keep the children this afternoon _ while you go to Relief Society meeting," we would have an average at- 671 tendance of 100%. And in turn, I believe if the sisters would say on Sunday morning, "Now, Papa, you get ready and go to Priesthood meeting and I will feed the pigs and milk the cows," and shove papa off to Priesthood meeting, he would appreciate it, and be more willing to take care of the children while mama is gone to Relief Society meeting. We have not been able to have a clinic in our stake, but we have cooperated with our county commissioners, our Red Cross workers, and our county school nurses in the two states, and we have been successful in the last year and a half or two years in having our children examined. This has been very beneficial, and fine corrective work has been done. Our stake, in the last three years, has built three new meeting houses, and our Relief Society has helped with these. We have done a great deal along the charity line, as there are many calls in our communities. We have decided this year to make a greater effort for membership, and to try to see if we can get a Magazine in each home. One branch of our stake has seven members enrolled, and. In that branch they take twelve Magazines. Weare going to try to send a representative to attend the social service institute. It will be difficult, but we feel that we need this knowledge and so we are going to put forth every effort to send some one here to get that training. I feel grateful to my Heavenly Father that missionaries came to my home and brought me to Zion. I feel grateful that I am priyileged to work in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I certainly do enjoy Relief Society work. 672 SNOWFLAKE STAKE RELIEF S@eIETY Ars. Leonora S. Rovers, President Pay v7) HE dental work done for our children, through clinics arranged by the Relief Society in cooperation with the Parent-Teacher Association, is one of our greatest achievements. We weren't fortunate enough to have a wheat fund willed to us, therefore we are trying to build up a substitute. Since the General Board has discontinued our temple fund we turned that into a health fund. It is collected by the visiting teachers in July, and is being reserved exclusively for health work. The women have manifested a wonderful spirit in this project, though we continue to support temple work all we can. This small health donation which was formerly given for the redemption of the dead is now helping to save the living. Very excellent results followed the social service institute held in our stake by the General Board. There are a few points about our visiting teachers' work which are commendable. Last year our wards reported 100% officers and teachers have access to the Relief Society Magazine. They reported 100% teachers carry the message as outlined to the homes. In our stake we include each month a president's message in the teachers' topic. This special message may be from the General Board, stake board or the local president. This has been an effective way of 'reaching our women. Last summer our Relief Society stake board, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary stake boards united in trying to correct a social problem. Our block teachers carried the special message to the mothers in behalf of the Primary and M. I. A,, meLIEF SOGERY MAGAZINE and we immediately noticed that the Primary work went over with much more zeal. Our teachers have an efficiency record. Card which they enjoy filling out each month. They score on each of the ten activities which if completed make them efhcient teachers. They are: 1. I have attended preparation meeting and report meeting. 2. I have collected 100% annual dues on my district. 3. I have made prayerful preparation of my teacher's topic. 4.1 have made my monthly visit. 5. I have filled out the activity report in my teacher's book for this month. 6. I have carried my president's special message to each sister this month. 7. I am a subscriber for the Relef Society Magazine. 8. I have done a good turn to at least one individual in my district this month. 9. The homebound or aged in my district have had a special visit from me or someone I have invited to go. 10. At least 50% of the women of my district have attended one or more Relief Society meetings during this month. (A possible 100% can be made. Each number counts 10%.) Another thing we did this year was to send a Christmas gift to the Arizona State Children's Home. The superintendent of the school intimated a gift would be acceptable. We sent a box containing twelve new quilts, made and donated by our twelve organizations. Last May we made and donated a beautiful bridal suit to the Arizona temple. This is to be worn by the young people who go from our stake to be married in that temple. During the lesson season members of the stake board wrote and regular RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE presented a play "Joan of Arc." This was taken principally from our literary book, "The Girl in White Armor." We received good advertisement from the schools because of its historical value. It proved a very fine success. Our special activity for March 17th last year was a double trio prepared in each ward and rendered on that program. At the following union meeting these trios were all assembled in the form of a musical contest. This brought a_ special group into an activity. In the president's annual visit to the members of the ward at the close of the year, we prepared an outline to help her. Besides the regular message, we asked her to stress the following points: 1. Invite new members to join. 2, Annual dues should be paid in January. 3. Magazine should be accessible to every officer. 4. Encourage home study of lessons. 5. Pay special heed to fatherless and motherless. 6. Ask every woman to do a good turn during Christmas week, Our union meetings are our best means of putting over the following month's work, but because of the distance of most wards we cannot hope to have a full attendance of officers. However, we have the assurance of at least one representative each month, for our good bishops provide a way for one representative from each organization to come in. Our secretary sends notice in advance telling the presi- 'dents of any special activity to be given at the meeting, often designating the special officer we would like sent in. For example, if there is to be some demonstration or plan for the Work and Business Meeting, we ask for the counselor who has that work in charge to come. And I might say in passing that we 673 have found more work can be accomplished in Work and Business Meeting when the work is planned ahead than will otherwise be done. This plan for union meeting has carried over fairly well in our stake. We find better efforts put forth when each officer carries her division of responsibility. In so doing she soon becomes a specialist along her particular line. This has proved so in our educational activities. From ward reports it is quite evident that our outstanding achievement for the past year has been in our lesson work. We conducted a contest for six months beginning with January and ending with the June lessons. The objective for this contest was to increase our attendance. Tollowing are the points used for the literary class since that was the heaviest course. The score of the contest was based on: ~ 1, Attendance. 2. Preparation of lesson in Magasine. 3. Reading of the biography for that particular month. 4. Copying neatly one or more gems found in the biography. For the month we allowed 30% for attendance, 20% for Magazine reading, 30% for reading the book, and 20% for the gem; 4% of the women of the stake scored 100% in the literary class. 108 women read "Son of the Middle Border;"' 133 women read "Florence Nightingale;"' 114 women read "Joaquin Miller;'" 167 women read "Schumann-Heink;" 90 women read "Emily Dickinson;" making a total of.612 good books read by the literary class. The score cards used for the Theology were the same as the literary for numbers 1 and 2. No, 3 was reading of Book of Mormon text; No. 4, Application of lesson in the home (which meant a dis- 674 cussion or review of the story); 9% of the women of the stake made 100% in the Theology class work; 242 women reported part reading of the Book of Mormon. In the Social Service, the score was based much the same with the exception of No. 4 which required outside reading along the line of social service; 30% of the women read the "Art of Helping People out of Trouble." This lesson activity has been a wonderful course for the education of our women. The women have had this social contact at meeting and then return to their homes enriched, refreshed, and their burdens lightened for another week's work. Such work develops love, harmony, and lasting joy. OGDEN STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs, Ida M. Treseder, President HIS summer when the General Board sent out to the stakes a questionnaire we felt that they did us a very great favor. From the investigation necessary we learned more about our Relief Society organizations than we had ever known before. I think this winter that our big work will be to try to get hold of sisters who are enrolled and who have not been attending the ward organization meetings. Our greatest achievement is through our class work. We have some very efficient and capable class teachers on our stake board, and they help to' make efficient teachers in our wards. Our sisters have surely gotten a very good education out of the class work. Every year we are developing teachers and class leaders. Since we have had the teacher training class our visiting teachers' RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE work has been done better than before. We co-operate with all the social service agencies in our stake, and in this respect I would like to mention our hospital. We go to the hospital each month and do sewing for that institution, and we have had the privilege given to us to send a limited number of charity maternity cases to the hospital. We have had that privilege for some time and have sent a great number of our sisters to the hospital for attention at that particular time. We have followed up this work and found that they have had just as good attention as though paying the money for it. We are very thankful to our hospital for giving us that privilege. MARY C. KIMBALL Member of the General Board and Editor of the Relief Society Magazine ne different, from the prevailing spirit and thought of the times, was the attitude of Joseph Smith toward women when he organized the Relief Society in 1842! He said: "This charitable Society is according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feeling of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms, If you live up to these principles, how. Great and glorious!" From that time on the condition of women changed for the better. The way he recognized the divine instincts given women by our heavenly Father, and his desire to see these instincts have a fuller expression is a mark of his divine inspiration. I am deeply grateful for the privilege that is mine, of laboring in this great cause. No finer band of women could be gathered together in the world than RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are found in our ranks. Every talent we may have has opportunity for expression. Are we clever with our fingers? Then we may quilt, make little garments for children, make over clothing for the poor, and find joy in that service. Do we long to know books and writers better than we have done? Our Society calls us together each week to study some of the finest things that have been given to people. And so we delve into religious subjects, into literature, into social service questions, and this great field is opening up more and more to us all the time, and we are learning that it is not enough to supply the needs of people temporarily, but that we must study what has caused their condition, and how we may help them to help themselves, how we may raise them to a higher plane of living, and how we may teach them to budget their resources and to live within them. Everywhere we turn we may give expression to these longings that are in our souls to help our brothers and our sisters in need. When we realize the vastness of this work and its many opportunities, we do well to ask, how may we better serve? What qualifications should we cultivate to make us more fit for the burdens we assume? We should think and study and observe, read and ponder over what we read, that vision may come to us. We should keep God's commandments in order that we may by example as well as by precept show the better way of life. Then only will truth and light come to us because our Father has pronounced that he that keepeth his commandments shall receive truth and light until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things. We should cultivate poise so that we are not perturbed by little things, but that we can keep our eyes steadfastly fixed | 675 on the big things of life that need our attention. We should maintain a balance of interest—sometimes we become so intensely interested in one thing that we are unbalanced. I have heard of women who become so wrapped up in genealogical research that their children became secondary considerations. No matter how good a thing is we want to obtain a balance of interest. Work, recreation, rest—so goes the cycle, and we should not be one-sided and devote all our time and energy to one thing. How we need to cultivate patience in our work with the unfortunate! Sometimes they try us; we wonder whether we will ever accomplish anything, but we find if we maintain a patient attitude that gradually things become brighter and the object we have had in view comes nearer, and if we will keep a right attitude, that means much. We need to keep the spirit of youth. Youth is not a matter wholly of young muscles and of arteries that have not begun to harden—it is a matter of our outlook, our interests, of joy in life, and enthusiasm. Let us put into action our better selves, and look into our own hearts and see what needs rooting out, see what good qualities we have that we can develop. Let us be not petty, but broad; not fault-finding, but constructive; not hasty, but wise in judgment; not prejudiced, but open minded; not selfish, but generous; not erratic, but dependable; and let us remember the admonition of Paul that we should be an example in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity. May our Father enable us to see the wonderful work that he has established, and may we show our appreciation of it by putting the very best we have into it, and then, my sisters, we will learn the paradox of service that Christ tried so hard to plant in 676 the hearts of his followers—by giving we shall have more; by studying it will be like putting grain into the granaries so that the staff of life may be taken out; we then, because of our study and research and thought will have developed into more splendid women, and will be able to give greater service. ALICE L. REYNOLDS Former Member of the General Board and Editor of the Relief Society Magazine F OR over seven years it was my high privilege to edit your Magazine. We did seek to keep to the front women who are achieving, and we sought, also, to embody the lives and efforts of people who are not just of our own day but who made their worthy contribution in the past. One of the particular privileges that came to us during our term as editor was to cover the centenary of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and the centenary of the organization of the Church. It was a great privilege and we hope that when another hundred years shall come that if those who are doing the work shall be interested in turning back to see what was done in 1930, that they will find there material worthy of perusal. One of the things we do hope is that through all the work the golden thread of the gospel could be felt and seen. Sister Kimball is a noble woman. She is a woman who loves God and loves the gospel of Jesus Christ. She is an able woman who has devoted herself to study; she is a woman who loves women, so that I am full of joy and rejoicing that the work that I found necessary to lay down has fallen into the hands of one so well prepared to do it and RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE one whose spirit is in such hearty accord with all Latter-day Saint women. I want to say a word about this Board. When I was a member of it, it would not have been the best of taste for me to say what I am going to say now, but since I am not one of them now I can say it perhaps with some propriety. They are magnificent women; they work early and late, and their eyes are always looking ahead. There are no back wheels to the General Board of the Relief Society. It is progress; onward, onward is the slogan, and they work and they deliberate and they plan to bring to you the very best that there is to bring to you. The Relief Society has an ambitious program. It has such a worthwhile program that all Relief Society women should feel that they have a very worthy aim in life when they are doing the work of the Relief Society. You know some of those who are philosophers tell us today there is no happiness for people who haven't a worthy object, a worthy aim. One of the things that makes me rejoice in the gospel of these latter days is that it furnishes such high ideals and such worthy aims for its workers. ALICE D. MOYLE President Eastern States Mission. Relief Society WISH to voice my appreciation and esteem for the wonderful women who have boys on missions. It is not only the fighters in the first ranks who assist in the progress of the Church, but those who stay at home and make it possible, and I am sure, after being acquainted with several hundred of your boys, what _kind of mothers they have at home. I know the Lord will bless you for your sacrifices, both of their presence and the money it costs to keep RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE them there, and I want to assure you mothers that your confidence is well placed for I have come in contact with some most wonderful boys in the year and a half that I have been in the Eastern States Mission. The girls are doing a marvelous work, work the boys could not do, in Primary work and Mutual work; and they go into homes where the elders cannot go, and I have never come in contact with one girl in the mission field that I was not proud of and that I could not take in my arms as my own child. They are all possessed of the same spiritual power in the mission field that makes them all beautiful and all lovely to be with. PRESIDENT _RUDGER CLAWSON HE (Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized one hundred years ago, and a little later, the Relief Society was organized, nearly one hundred years ago, and it has been going strong and was never stronger or more influential or powerful than it is today. Think ofa membership of 62,- 900 souls! I wish to say a word in respect to the Relief Society Magazine. It is a wonderful Magazine. You must never forget that it is the Relief Society organ, it is your publication, it belongs to you, it is issued for your benefit. If a Relief Society sister should come to me and say, "Brother Clawson, what is my responsibility to the Church publications?" I should say, without hesitation, "My dear sister, your first obligation in this matter is to subscribe to the Relief Society Magagme. In it you will find every instruction and teaching that is necessary for you, and then after that, if you want to subscribe for other magazines, it is all right, but for 677 you, it should be the Relief Society Magazine first." COUNSELOR JULIA A, CHILD ELIEF SOCIETY offers an opportunity for adult education for the women of our Church that is not found anywhere else. We are proud of our outlined lessons and the work that is being accomplished through them. The course of study this year is particularly interesting. In theology we continue the study of the Book of Mormon. We are hoping that by the end of next year when we will have completed the course that every woman in this Church not only will have read the Book of Mormon but will have within her heart a testimony that it is true. Our literary work is The Short Story. This course will interest many in the text book which covers the best in this field of literature. We also hope that before the course is ended (it is going to be a twoyear course) that many of the stories of our pioneers will have been gathered and written by the members. These may be compiled as short stories. We hope a rich contribution will come from our members in this way. The text of the social service course is Influencing Human Behavior by Overstreet—an excellent book and one of the very latest. Quoting from our text, Overstreet says: "As individuals, our chief task in life is to make our personality, and what our personality has to offer, effective in our particular environment of human beings." We need to know how to interest our fellows, how to arouse their expectations, how to build up habits to a favorable response, and how to lead and adjust and control. Now to the mothers in our Church an opportunity is given to study how 678 better to understand ourselves as well as our children, and how to increase our personalities so as to become more effective in the service of others. We must learn something about science, its aims and its limitations; above all we must learn something of how we can apply science to ourselves, especially in relation to others. The topics that are outlined for the visiting teacher are of very great importance. The visiting teacher is one of the very first activities that was given in our Relief Society. The visiting teacher goes into the home of many who do not go to our meetings, so it is very important that they have this message and deliver it intelligently. For this purpose a training class has been organized and the visiting teachers are asked to come one Tuesday of each month and discuss their problems. They are instructed to carry whatever message is necessary from the president, and they should leave one beautiful, helpful thought in every home. In the preparation of this educational work, committees from the General Board are chosen, and they decide on the subjects of our work. It is not done hastily, but carefully and prayerfully. Whenever a new or old subject is to be taken up, it is thoroughly discussed; after the subject of study is chosen, great care is exercised in selecting the writer of the lessons. We feel particularly pleased for all the authors of the lessons have the background of Relief Society work and are able to write splendid lessons. Then, in your wards capable class leaders are chosen. After all this work has been done, the members of the association should support the teachers. Very full lessons are given in our Magazines, and these should be read carefully. Reference books are RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE often mentioned there, but it is not the intention of the writers of the lessons that you purchase these reference books, but we are anxious that just as many as possible buy the text books. Of course we realize that all class leaders must have the text book and we hope that at least all ward associations will have one besides that, and we urge as many of the members as can possibly do so to buy the texts and use them. While we are urging that this work go on, we want you to remember this, that at the bottom of it all is the spirit of the gospel, and we hope it will be taught with every lesson because upon that we build our work. We trust that this year the lesson work throughout the Church will be, if possible, a little bit better than it has ever been before. We hope the members and officers will go away with a determination to work a little bit harder. We hope the visiting teachers will go out fully determined to visit every home and carry a message to each one. I hope that we will have a successful year, and I am sure we will. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT I CAN truthfully say that it is always a pleasure to me to meet with our sisters. My dear departed mother was both father and mother to me, and some of the dearest friends I have ever had in the world have been the officers of this association. My mother was a girl with "Aunt Em" Wells and with Sarah M. Kimball, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young, and others, in Nauvoo. My earliest recollections are associated with the very splendid and wonderfully inspirational teachings of Eliza R. Snow. As a little child, residing on Main Street where the Z. C. M. T. Now stands, I very often RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE went over to the Lion House and spent many hours in the rooms of Aunt Eliza, as I called her. She was full of interesting, inspirational experiences, personal experiences with the Prophet Joseph Smith, She instilled into my heart, and so did my mother and these other noble women to whom I have referred, and many others whom I have not mentioned, especially "Aunt Mary" Partridge, a love for the inspiration and spirit and ability and wonderful power of Joseph Smith. I learned to love him as a child and I am pleased to say to you that in all of my travels at home or abroad, wherever I have gone, that I have constantly been finding something that added to my love and respect for the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is a wonderful thing that under the inspiration of the Lord this man should have established the first women's association of any note in the United States of America. I am sure that there is no other class of people of the same numbers as the Latter-day Saints that could ever get together such a body as I see before me here today, interested in religious matters and in the welfare of the good women of their respective communities where they live. I was particularly impressed with the last remark that was made by the sister that preceded me, that above all, the main thing is to get the spirit of the gospel. The spirit gives life, the letter kills, and I have no fear for the Church of Jesus Christ as long as the women of the Church are as devoted as you are and as others are in their various organizations. I am convinced that it is the mother that shapes the lives of the children far more than the father, and if we can only keep a deep spiritual interest in the hearts of our sisters in the Primaries, in the Mutuals, and in the Relief Societies, this work is bound to pro- 679 gress. The absolute faith in the hearts of these noble women I have mentioned, in the gospel of Jesus Christ and the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, I am sure, has come down to you and me and to others that are of the second and third and even of the fourth generation of faithful workers in this Church, I pray constantly for all of the officers of this Church, whether in the Priesthood or in the auxiliary associations. J am sure, in my secret prayers particularly, that I never forget, morning or night, those that have been called to preside, to direct the affairs in the Priesthood quorums and in the auxiliary associations. My prayer is that each and every one of you holding a place of responsibility shall so order your lives that they shall be examples of diligence and energy and of the spirit of the living God, that can be followed in every part by those over whom you preside. I am proud of our mothers; I am proud of our daughters. I do not believe you can travel in any part of the world and find finer people than among the Latter-day Saints. I have often said in the past when we were suffering slander and persecution and trouble that if we could have a real, genuine photograph of the splendid women that were connected with the women's organizations in our Church, published in various periodicals that were maligning the people, that the very faces of these women would be a refutation to all the charges made against our people. I remember well in Japan of reading an article by a man who stated it was his business to analyze the 'faces of people, and he said he had just come from visiting the president of the "Mormon" Church (that was when Lorenzo Snow was president) and he said, 680 with one single exception, in all his life he had never looked upon a more God-like face than that of the "Mormon" leader. If the 'Mormon' Church can furnish leaders like this, it will need no greater proof of the integrity of the people. I have often felt that a photograph of our dear sisters, with the intelligent, god-like faces they. Possess, would be a testimony to all the world of the integrity of our people. One thing I expect to speak upon tomorrow is the gratitude in my heart for the wonderful change that has come about in the world today with regard to our people. We are becoming known for exactly what we are—a God-fearing people, a people with an abiding faith in God as our father, the father of our spirits, aS one we can approach, and who, we know, hears and answers prayers; a people with an absolute faith in Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world, and with an absolute faith also that Joseph Smith was in very deed a prophet of the true and living God. These are fundamentals today. The world is drifting away from faith in God and in Jesus Christ as the Son of God. They have no belief in a living prophet; they worship the dead prophets, but we have an abiding faith in Joseph Smith as the absolute prophet and instrument in the hands of God in establishing here upon the earth the plan of life and salvation. It is, my dear sisters, in very deed the truth, it is the pearl of great price which is of more value than anything else in all the world, and I rejoice that we are becoming known as a God-fearing people. That God will bless the officers of this association, the general offcers, the stake and the ward officers, and all the members, is my most earnest and humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus, our Redeemer, Amen. RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE ACHIEVEMENTS OF WOMEN Counselor Amy Brown Lyman I DESIRE today to speak of some achievements of women in the last century, for it is really astounding what advancement has been made by and for women in one hundred years. We read constantly of the service of women's organizations and of women who are working successfully in business, education, scientific research, music and art, in the professions of social work, law, and medicine, and in politics. It is a strange thing that men have opposed the activity and development of women, but stranger still that many women have also joined the opposition, while others have been indifferent. For it is a fundamental fact that the development of the race itself depends largely upon the development and activity of women, and that the race develops in proportion to the development of woman. Even the great central fact has sometimes been lost sight of "that with each generation the entire race passes through the body of its womanhood, as through a mould, reappearing with the indelible marks of that mould upon it." Only an able, active, working womanhood can permanently produce an able and active manhood. In social work especially, women have had a large part. There are as many noted women in this profession today as there are men, Social work has contributed much to the comfort, happiness and well-being of the world. It has fought poverty, crime, disease, and immorality, and has accomplished much in protective and preventive work. It was the social worker and not the doctor who first began the organized fight against tuberculosis; against venereal disease; against the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE unventilated and unclean tenement houses. It was the social worker who sought protective legislation for human beings, for sickness and accident insurance, workmen's compensation, minimum wage for women, eight-hour day; the social worker who organized plans for infant and maternity care, for birth registration, and for health opportunity for everybody, and women workers have played a large part in this work, James Gerard (former ambassador to Germany) recently named a list of fifty men whom he designated as rulers of the United States. In September, 1930, Miss Ida M. Tarbell, herself a distinguished writer and editor, at the request of the Los Angeles Times and the North American Newspaper Alliance, made a list of fifty foremost women of the United States, entitled "Living Women Who Have Done Most to Advance the Welfare of the Country." Her measuring rod was (1) ability to create and initiate, (2) ability to lead and inspire, (3) ability to carry on. She listed the women in groups as follows—Artists and Writers, 16; Educators and Scholars, 12; Social, Industrial and Political Workers, 18; Business Women, 2; Women in Sports, 2. Being a humanitarian organization ourselves, I am sure we will all be interested in a few of the women listed in the social, industrial and political class whom I shall mention: Jane Addams, America's most revered woman; Carrie Chapman Catt, the country's leading stateswoman; Julia Lathrop, a Hull House volunteer worker of thirty years standing, a child welfare specialist, the first chief of the U. S. Children's Bureau; Grace Abbott, chief of Children's Bureau, immigration expert; Lillian D. Wald, originator of district nursing in 681 New York at Henry Street Settlement, and the woman who suggest ed the Children's Bureau; Florence Kelly, leader to improve factory conditions; Judge Florence Allen (a Utahn), Justice of Supreme Court of Ohio; Mary Anderson, chief of Woman's Bureau of U. S. Department of Labor, who has worked unceasingly for women and girls in industry; Maude Ballington Booth, for forty years a prison worker; Helen Keller, master of her fate. A discussion of women and women's work in the United States would not be complete without mention of our L. D. S. Women's organizations—the Relief Society, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary Association. I shall speak only of the Relief Society today. For eightyeight years the 'Relief Society has existed. In this time it has grown in membership from 18 to 62,902; in branches from four Nauvoo wards to 1665. Last year the amount paid out for charity was $98,925.02. The Relief Society today encircles the globe—an invisible band connects the branches which are held together in love, unity of purpose and loyalty by the spirit of the work and by gospel ties. Beginning in Illinois, on the banks of the Mississippi River, the Relief Society first grew westward into the fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains, then across the continent, and on to the countries of Europe; later, southward to Hawaii and New Zealand, 'Australia, Tahiti and Tonga, and then to South Africa and Asia Minor, forming a circle. The same influence directs the work everywhere; there is the same uniformity of purpose; the same benevolence and sympathy are extended; and the same spirit—the spirit of the gospel—permeates the work. Expansion of Interest in Terms of Child-Welfare By Jean Cox EEN interest in the welfare of the child has changed the term "Adult Education," by some groups to "Parent Education." In a broad sense this may include all kinds of adult education because what the parents may learn in any field of educational endeavor will react to some extent upon the welfare of the child. The careful intensive work in child study and parent child relationships which is _being carried on in the half dozen outstanding child welfare stations, is representative of the sympathetic concern in the welfare of the child. The present day interest in child welfare is somewhat typical of an experience related of Mrs. Isaac Leah Hillis of Jowa, who was largely instrumental in getting state appropriation for the study of how children grow. While she was working for this, a president of a university suggested to her "That - the women of Iowa might indeed do a worth while service if they put chimes in the tower." Her reply was prophetic. "Mr. President, the women of Iowa are going 'to start chimes ringing which will ring throughout eternity." That was the beginning of one of our best child welfare stations. 110,000 people were represented in the request for an appropriation in 1912, The careful persistent study which has been carried on in the Iowa Child Welfare Station, to increase the number of normal children free from remedial defects has indeed set the chimes ringing in Iowa. Other states can well follow this lead. Ge national child welfare conferences have been called by presidents of the United 'States. President Roosevelt called one in 1901, where two hundred child welfare workers met to consider dependent children. The outstanding recommendation of this conference was that dependent children be not removed from their homes, but that the homes be made acceptable. This is another example of the need for adult education. The second recommendation was, where children necessarily had to be cared for in institutions that the cottage plan be used and that home conditions be approached as nearly as possible. The next big step in child care was the organization of the Children's Bureau. In 1912, in addition to the national conference, regional conferences were called to discuss social economic problems in child welfare. In 1929 the outstanding conference of the year was the White House Conference on child welfare called by 'President Hoover. This marks keen interest in the problem. $500,000 from a private source is being used to determine present and future needs in the care of children. The original committee of twentynine has been expanded to almost one thousand specialists who are making a most careful study of problems such as these: The needs of the child as a member of the family group. What must the child get out of family relationships which will give durable satisfaction? CHILD WELFARE What kinds of play are best suited to develop the child's capacity in joy of living? What is needed in terms of training to help children live together in the most efficient way? The child has a right to proper physical and mental development. When the best is done for the child the potential economic value will be greatly increased. Some members of the committee are making a careful study of the delinquent factors in modern life which defeat agencies already going. One group is trying to determine how much can be expected from the home for nurturing its citizens so that lives may be extended. The vision of the committee makes it possible to place considerable emphasis upon preventative measures against ill health, delinquency, and other undesirable standards. To offset these it stresses the importance of good habits, desirable attitudes, good citizenship, worthy ideals. When the findings of this committee are released, more minds will be thinking together and will have a more definite ideal of a welltrained child having good physical and mental health. While the specialists are trying to make a foundation on which to expand a program on what is best for the children of the United States, they realize that they cannot go higher than the 683 minds of the people. Before many definite or worth while results can be obtained, a period of parent education must ensue which will result in a desire to adapt and make the most of the findings of these specialists. Opportunity to study problems pertaining to child welfare should be eagerly sought for by understanding and thoughtful parents. This will call for a program in parent education for parents and those adults who have children under their direction. It is expected that rapid strides 'will be made in this field of education. AMO any sacrifice should be considered worth while if careful persistent study in child problems will improve not only the physical but mental health of the child. Parent education is one phase of education which makes possible extra returns. In nine cases out of ten when a mother becomes: interested in child training she very soon realizes that she herself needs application of psychological principles in order to make her the kind of a mother her trained child should have. In many cases while the mother would not make the initial sacrifice for herself, she becomes converted to the fact that for better children there must be more intelligent parents. "And a little child shall lead them" scores high in terms of child welfare and parent education. THE WOMAN AT THE WELL "Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him, shall never thirst, but it shall bein him a well of water springing up into everlasting life." How Old is Old? By Ada Taylor Graham Executive Secretary Utah Tuberculosis Association ETHUSELAH was 969 M years old when he died; the poet Chatterton only 18. What does it mean to be old? When are we old? How old is old, anyhow? Perhaps it is reduced earning capacity? American industry scraps its men and women at forty. But age doesn't necessarily have anything to do with productivity. Some of the finest things in the world came from so-called "old-people." Giovanni Bellini, Michael Angelo, Sidney (Cooper, painted some of their best works just a short time before they died. Titian was painting with "incomparable 'steadiness of hand" until the day of his death at the jage of ninety-nine. Goethe, Voltaire, Anatole France, Frederick Hanson, Littre, van Ranke, retained their creative energy unimpaired until their deaths. So we needn't be old after all! How can we prevent senility? Most of us exercise too little, get insufhcient rest, live too hard and fast, drink too little water, eat too much, do not recognize or correct disease until it has become chronic and almost incurable. Yet from time immemorial our sages have been trying to teach us differently. Some of the most famous sayings in the world are simply rules for retaining health and increasing pleasurable longevity. Statisticians say that the majority of centenarians eat sparingly. Montaigue writes: 'Man does not die, he kills himself." And don't you remember translating that passage of Cicero: "Nature has lent us life at interest, like money, and has fixed no day for its payment"? And Cowper's. Couplet runs: "Men deal with life as children with their play, Who first misuse, then cast their toys away." Nowadays it is not considered the most effective means to preach the building of positive health and prolonging life by maxim or couplet. The present age demands precise and organized work, such as medical research, the maintenance of hospitals, sanatoria and clinics, and also the education of children in the schools. Such definite measures as these appeal to the practical American mind in the fight against tuberculosis. The effectiveness of this present-day mode of promoting a healthy, long life and fighting disease is evidenced by the gradually diminishing death rate of tuberculosis during the two and a half decades in which this method has been used. The results are encouraging. However, tuberculosis will kill more persons between the ages of 18 and 40 than any other ailment. It is still the outstanding preventable, but as yet wholly prevented, disease problem. The Christmas Seal Campaign, under the sign of the double-barred cross, fights disease, establishes the means to promote good health, points the way to healthy old age. It preaches a gospel of sunshine, fresh air, rest and nourishing food, both as preventive and curative agents, "Medicine out of the earth, the sky, the sea, makes getting well a pleasure, and keeping young and MERRY_CHRISTMAS y Uh} HEALTH TO ALL - vivid almost automatic." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Fatleth THE GENERAL BOARD _ MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN. - -__- MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - Mrs, Emma A. Empey Mrs. Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Mrs, Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Ethel Reynolds Smith Rogannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Elise B. Alder Inez K. Allen President First Counselor - - Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - 5 = = 5 ms "4 7 Manager - - ~ = = c: Assistant Manager. - a Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Mary ConneLty KimBaLt Louise Y. Rosison Auy Brown LyMAN Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VoL. XVII DECEMBER, 1930 No. 12 EDITORIAL "Our Joyfullest Feast" "Our Joyfullest Feast." Christ's coming was looked forward to with joy, his advent was heralded by angelic shouts of joy and ever since, at each recurrent anniversary of his birth, carols are 'heard, bells peal forth their joyous message, while pulpit and press again joyously tell of the coming of the Bethlehem Babe. From north to south and from east to west all over the globe are found men and women who bow in reverent devo- _tion and with joy acclaim their faith in Christ the Lord. Many people lose the joy of Christmas by making it a time to be dreaded because they spend more for Christmas giving than they can afford and overtax their strength. The message of Christmas is one of peace and good will. Christ's W ELL may Christmas be called followers should be careful that they do not make a mockery of his birthday by being dishonest in giving what they cannot afford and by going to such extremes during the holiday time that they are physically, mentally, and spiritually exhausted. Christmas should not be characterized by an orgy of exchanging presents and of worry lest the one given is not as costly as the one received, but by a season of peace and good will and joy, when giver and receiver give and take in joyous remembrance of God's great Christmas gift to the world—his only begotten Son, who came that they who believed on him should not perish but have everlasting life. I' addition to the giving which characterizes the Christmastide we suggest that it would be very fitting to reverently read his life, 686 ponder well over his teachings and see how our lives square with them. It is marvelous how they have suited and been applicable to the lives of those in both the humblest and most exalted stations, and not only to those who lived when they RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE were enunciated, but to those who live in the present century. All through the ages since they were given, Christ's teachings have been as a lamp to the feet and a light to the path, a beacon beckoning to higher place and more abundant life. Evan Stephens [* the death of Evan Stephens there passes from among us one who has rendered signal service to his Church and to the world of music. Twenty-two years before he died, his native land, Wales, recognizing his ability, sent two composers of international reputation, Parry and Prothero, to honor him and authoritatively constitute him "A Bard." His life has been devoted to music, as teacher, composer and director of musical bodies. In his young manhood, thousands of children attended his classes. Those having signal promise he trained individually. Later, the Tabernacle Choir achieved distinction under his able direction. In 1893 he took 250 members of that organization to the World's Fair to compete with choirs from all over the world, and won second prize. More than one judge averred that his singers should have been given first place. He has composed thousands of songs; hymns and anthems being his outstanding contribution. His name will ever be familiar to Latter-day Saints for he has put the gospel spirit and teachings into compositions that will be sung by generations yet to come. He was a tender, sympathetic friend. Many boys have been his especial care, and with fatherly devotion he looked after their training and education, going without things he desired for himself that they might have opportunities. Not only did his artistic soul delight in music, but everything beautiful appealed to him—flowers and trees, babbling brooks and mountain fastnesses, each conveyed messages to his soul and inspired many of his compositions. Quiet and unassuming, he lived his life, devoted to his art. He loved his home and his people, and they in turn honored and loved him. Blessed be his memory. "The Life Story of Brigham Young" A VERY valuable contribution to biographical literature is "The Life Story of Brigham Young," by his daughter, Susa Young Gates, in collaboration with her daughter, Leah D. 'Widtsoe. Brigham Young is an interesting character from any viewpoint. Many look upon him as a divinely inspired leader, while others are interested in him as a great pathfinder and colonizer. An earnest effort has been made to give, in this volume, a true picture of this great, many-sided man. One charm of the book is in the intimate — things recounted that only a member of the family could tell, while his life history as wrought in the public eye stands out in bold relief. The book is beautifully printed and illustrated, and is published by The Macmillan Company. Guide Lessons for February LESSON I _ Theology and Testimony (First Wlek in February) Book oF MorMON—SAMUEL THE LAMANITE ASSIGN MENT This lesson includes the material in the Book of Helaman, from the beginning of chapter 13 to the end of the seventh chapter of the Book of Third Nephi. The time is between B. C. 6 and A. D. 34—a period when the pendulum swings from good to evil among both Nephites and Lamanites with a swiftness that takes one's breath. If the books are available, the student will find an interesting treatment of the characters involved in the lessons in Reynolds's Dictionary of the Book of Mormon, especially under the names of Samuel, Nephi the son of Nephi, and Laconeous; and in Evans's Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon, chapter twenty-seven. The Story The narrative opens with the preaching of Samuel on the wall surrounding the town of Zarahemla. Samuel is a Lamanite. Having been directed of God to preach to the Nephites there, he scales the wall because the people will not let him in at the gates, and preaches to them from its top in spite of their opposition. His message, which is extremely distasteful to the inhabitants of the town, is one of warning and repentance. He assures them that they are headed for complete destruction, and that it will overtake them unless they mend their ways. Also he tells them of Christ and His work of redemption in Palestine. When Jesus is born across the waters, there will be three days of continuous light here, without any intervening darkness; and, at the time of His death, there will be a period of thirty-six hours of continuous darkness, with convulsions of the elements in the earth and in the sky. X few of his hearers are converted and go to Nephi, who is still ministering, to be baptized. But others try to hurt him with stones and arrows. After finishing his preaching, Samuel disappears from the pages of the Book of Mormon. That happened about six years before the advent of the Savior. The very next year some of the signs which the Lamanite prophet predicted made their appearance, but were disposed of by unbelievers, at least to their own satisfaction, with the "explanation" that they were "guesses." But, when the period of continuous light appeared, there was no such explanation forthcoming, and many were converted through it. On the whole, however, the Nephites were a hardened lot. It was the Lamanites that carried the torch. Once converted, they stayed so. During this period the Gadianton band became a terrible menace to those who wished to preserve the rights and government of the people. To this gang of outlaws went 688 all those who thought they had a grudge against the government. At one time, it seems, this secret organization became so numerous and dangerous, not to say powerful, that all the Nephites and Lamanites were compelled to assemble in one place for self-protection. Under the leadership of Laconeous and Gidgiddoni the order was finally uprooted. Towards the end of the period we are considering the political government of the Nephites became a thing of the past, and the people broke up into tribes, the binding cord in each tribe being kinship. The historian says, however, that there was a general agreement not to interfere with one another and that this rule was strictly ol: served, although the Nephites and most of the Lamanites made no pretense of holding to any religious beliefs. Notes 1. Freedom of the Will: Perhaps nowhere in religious history is the doctrine of free agency made clearer than it is in this lesson. The statement of the doctrine comes from the Lamanite prophet, Samuel. "Ye are free," says the prophet to the Nephites; "ye are permitted to act for yourselves; for, behold, God liath given unto you a knowledge and. He hath made you free." He draws the conclusion, therefore, that whoever is condemned, brings the condemnation upon himself. "Remember, my brethren, that whoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself; and whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself." "God," he continues, "hath given unto you that ye might know good from evil, and He hath given unto you that ye might choose life or death; and ye can do good and be restored unto _his brother. RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE that which is good, or have that which is good restored unto you; or ye can do evil, and have that which is evil restored unto you." ". Lines Wiped Out: Here, for the first time since Lehi's family came to the New World, we find all the Americans of the same color, creed, and nation, although not for long. In the preceding lesson we learned that the Lamanites were converted to the teachings of Nephi and But these hitherto benighted people still retained their copper color. In this lesson, however, we are told that, not only did the Nephites and the Lamanites become one people politically, but that the Lamanites became white like the Nephites. In both lessons the former became the teachers of the latter in religion. Particularly were the Lamanites steadfast in the Church, - once they saw the light. Samuel points out this fact in his sermon on the wall of Zarahemla. "The more part of them," he says, "are in the path of their duty, and they do walk circumspectly before God, and they do observe to keep His commandments and His statutes and His judgments according to the law of Moses.... Therefore as many of them as have come to this, ye know of yourselves are firm and steadfast in the faith, and in the thing wherewith they have been made free.- And ye know also that they have buried their weapons of war, and they fear to take them up lest by any means they should sin. They will suffer themselves that they be trodden down and slain by their enemies, and will not lift their swords against them, and this because of their faith in Christ." 3. A New Nephite War Policy: In this period we observe a deviation on the part of the Nephites in GUIDE LESSONS their policy respecting killing their enemies. It will be recalled that heretofore, whenever there was a war between the Nephites and the Lamanites, the Nephites would never take an enemy's life if they could help it. This seems to have been their invariable policy in war with the Lamanites. In this period, however, Gidgiddoni does not follow that policy in his encounters with the Gadianton robbers. What is the reason? The historian does not give the reason, but we can easily gather it from the spirit of the Book of Mormon and the general practice of the people. It is this: The Lamanites had not been trained in the distinctions so well recognized by the Nephites—the distinctions, namely, between right and wrong from the higher point of view. In more than one place we have had occasion to point this fact out in these lessons. Not so, however, with the Gadianton robbers. They were Nephites. They had been accustomed to the moral and religious distinctions of Nephite life and culture. They knew, therefore, the difference between what they were doing and what they ought to have done. In other words, they were more accountable for their actions than the Lamanites because their knowledge was greater. And so Gidgiddoni is not satisfied to defeat the robber band merely. He shuts the door to their escape when they are overcome in battle. He surrounds them, and orders his men to slay them right and left. Al! Who are not taken prisoners have, on this policy, been put to death—as they richly deServe to be. Moreover, the leader of this outlaw band, which must have numbered tens of thousands, is hanged to a tree, after which the FOR FEBRUARY 689 tree is cut down with no little ceremony and shouting. It is almost. A religious festival, this hanging. The explanation lies, not in the greater desire of the Nephite commander for blood, but in the greater culpability of the enemy on the assumption that they knew what they were doing. This was the end, during that period, of the Gadianton robbers among the ancient Americans. 4, Political Anarchy: At one time during this short period of twentyseven years crime became so prevalent as to tax all the resources of what government there was to put a stop to it. That was toward the end of the period, after the Nephite nation had broken up into tribes. The division of the people was not into Nephites and Lamanites any more, nor into believers and non-believers in Christ, but rather into those who were for law and order, on the one hand, and those who were for organizing a government of tyranny and oppression, on the other hand. And so a fierce struggle ensued for mastery. The usual methods employed by the criminal element were adopted— secret killings and the customary ways of hiding their guilt and avoiding punishment. For instance: Prophets arose to warn the lawless of their evil ways, and these prophets were put to death secretly. The murders, however, were perpetrated by the judges, contrary to the law. And when complaints were lodged against the judicial murderers, their friends and kinsmen} who were very numerous, united with 'almost all the lawyers and the high priests" and entered into "a covenant to combine against all righteousness." The result was, as the book tells us, that they "delivered those who were guilty from the grasp of justice 690 and set at defiance the law and the rights of their country." Questions and Problems 1. How do you account for the superior faithfulness of the Lamanites? 2. How does evil get such a hold as it seems to have had at this time? Discuss the predominance of the criminal element in Chicago and the RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE bribery of judges in New York City, in this connection. 3. Why is it usually more difficult to organize the better element than the criminal? What motive actuates the latter always? How strong is that motive in man? 4. What are some of the problems that confront our American communities today? How may these be best solved, in your opinion? Work and Business LESSON II Work and Business Teachers' Topic for February (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in February ) THE RELIEF SOCIETY AS A SOCIAL OpporTUNITY "Society: is the great educator. More than universities, more than schools, more than books, society educates." —John Dewey. "And do I love to associate with my friends? I do, and I love to reflect and talk on eternal principles."—Brigham Young. 'We receive social development in the Relief Society by— I. Personal Contact with Women. (a) Who have like aims and aspirations. (b) Who have kindred interests. (c) Who have knowledge of the gospel and a love for its principles. (d) Who are seeking self-development. (e) Who have high standards of motherhood and child care. (L) Who are home loving and wish to preserve the standards of the home. II. Participation in the Social Life of the Relief Society at— (a) Meetings. (b) Socials. (c) Bazaars. (d) Plays. (e) Exhibits. ({) Study Groups. (g) Trips. A desire to contribute something to the group, to have a share in its success, brings social development of a high order. III. Visiting Teaching. (a) Meeting women in. Their own homes. 1. Fosters cordial and pleasing attitude. 2. Gives opportunity for exchange of ideas. 3. Develops tact and judgment. (b) Contact with officers as their representatives develops a feeling of sisterhood. (c) Comradeship with teaching companion engenders kindred feeling with all workers. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 691 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February) THE SHorT STorRY IN GREAT BRITAIN, Part II This last period of the English short story can be extended into 1930. It had its beginning in the tales, designed to suit the purposes of the moralists of the 18th and early 19th centuries, but it has now reached a place where there are almost no restrictions of subject matterr, style, or treatment. This decided change began early in the 19th century and was affected by the romantic movement of Wordsworth, Keats, and others. It was a time when England was flooded by French ideas (The revolution and Napoleon had given England more to think about than morals and manners). Novelists, who had been inspired by Addison, Swift. And Defoe, had been writing books of English life, and their experiments were broadening into many fields. In fact, some forward-looking men and women had begun to write of political and social ideals, and even of education. But novels and short stories were not yet in their present-day repute. One respectable magazine advertised that it would consider novels, tales, and romances provided they were not more than three or four pages in length. Weak little tales of horror, sentiment, and pathos were appearing humbly in a few magazines. Later, the tales were strongly marked with horror and pathos. These reached their full maturity in the vivid tales of our American Edgar Allen Poe. In the 1830's these tales, either of horror or of pathos, were made into decorative gift books, and no lady's table was complete without one. Then came Sir Walter Scott, bred on the border legends, who wrote three short tales, yet whose books inspired many a writer of romantic short narratives. Over in America, Poe, Hawthorne, and Irving had brought perfection of style and humor into the short story. Still, the English writers were slow to grasp the Americans' technique. Dickens, Thackeray, Gaskell, and others were writing short narratives along with their long novels, but not one of them achieved the short story as we know it today. Of them all, Dickens rose to the greatest fame. Much of his success in the field of short narratives was due to his Christmas books. Even now there are few persons who do not know "Scrooge" and "Tiny Tim"; and the 'Christ mas Carol" and "Cricket on the Hearth" have not been displaced in our Christmas literature. The Dickens' stories were long and meandering, but they contained his -characterizations—without which there would be no Dickens. With Charles Reade and Henry Kingsley came a transitional period. Reade's story, "The Box Tunnel," gives the effect of a single idea. 'However, it was not until 1877, when Robert Louis Stevenson's first story, "A Lodging for the Night" appeared that England awoke to the modern short story. It was right that Stevenson should be the first to produce it. He was steeped with French culture, and the short story is French in its art of restraint and grace. 692 Stevenson is best known in the short story field for his impressionistic stories. Perhaps '""Markheim" is the best liked. This story does not appear in the text (and his one story is not listed for class use because of the difficulty of the dialect), but it is worth the effort of finding it in another collection. It is a psychological story—of a man's struggle with himself and his decision. Aside from grace of style, Stevenson will live because he has made his characters act and made them English. And his subject matter is decidedly Anglo-Saxon. If Stevenson made the short story beautiful, it remained for Kipling to carry it into new fields. Of all the English writers during the latter part of the 19th and the forepart of the 20th centuries, Kipling is the most vigorous, versatile, and highly gifted. His stories carry a glamor no other English writer has been able to obtain. This glamor is due to many things; racial contrasts, foreign settings, descriptions that made the reader smell and. Feel the Orient, and a sense of England's might, and above all to the fact that everything he wrote was interesting. Kipling was often journalistic, an accusation that covers poor taste, sensationalism, and even vulgarity, some critics claim, but he has written a few of the most exquisite stories in the English language. The "Brushwood Boy" and "They" are two of his best. Neither he nor any other contemporary English writer is found in the text, but he must not be neglected. The two stories mentioned, 'Without Benefit of Clergy," "The Man Who Would Be King," "The Return' of Imray," "The Man Who Was," and a hundred others are worth reading. Helped by Kipling, England took the short story to herself, and her RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE writers today rival America's. There are but few English novelists who do not write short stories. John Galsworthy, Conrad, Hardy, Hewlett, Aldous Huxley, Moore, Rebecca West, Katherine Mansfield, Macefield, James Joyce and J. M. Barrie are only a few whose names are familiar to American readers. Brief Summary of the Short Story in Great Britain 1. Short story first came into England with the Roman church. 2. France next influenced the story by means of her fables, fairy tales, and miracle stories. 3. Chaucer then took the medieval tales and made them alive with characters of contemporary England. 4, After a long period Italy's influence was next felt. 5. Engiland's talents and tastes then began to improve and she learned to value home writers—Addison, 'Steele, Defoe, etcetera. 6. Romantic movement, with. Its sensational and melodramatic tales came next; and was followed by the modern short story. Suggested Stories The 'White Trout by Samuel Lover.* Dickens' The Old Man's Tale of the Queer Client. Wilkie Collins' A Terribly Strange Bed. Thomas Hardy's Squire Petrick's Lady. Oscar Wilde's The Selfish Giant.* George Moore's Julia Cahill's Curse. Arthur Morrison's That Brute Simmons.* *The starred stories are all brief and delightful reading. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY Brief Biographical Sketches Samuel Lover is the Irishman of romantic legend. He had a joyousness of spirit that sorrows, illness, and financial reverses could not quench. In him were housed many talents. At various times he was a painter, a caricaturist, a composer of songs, a singer, a dramatist, and a writer of fairy tales and poems. It was his stock-broker father's plans to make Samuel into a business man, but at seventeen the boy set himself up as an artist. One of his miniatures made him famous and he moved from! Dublin, where he was born in 1797, to London, It was here that he wrote his delightful "Irish Legends and Tales," from which "The White Trout" is taken. His songs, "Rory O'Moore," "Widow Machree," "The Girl I Left Behind Me," and a great many others are still loved and sung. In 1842 he wrote his best novel, "Handy Andy." Then his eyesight began to fail him and for very necessary reasons he took himself to America, where supposedly every one was wealthy. At any rate America lost many a dollar when he departed, but she was the richer for the memories of his "Irish Evenings." It was next England's turn to listen to "American Evenings," and there was no longer any worry in the Lover family about bank accounts. His health now gradually failed him; he died on the Isle of Jersey in 1868. Charles Dickens When Charles Dickens came to America, people stood in line for hours to get tickets for his entertainments. He wrote home that each ticket-buyer was furnished with a little bag of bread and meat, two blankets, and a bottle of whiskey, and thus outfitted they would 693 sleep on the pavement the whole night before his performances. Re- | gardless of the truth of this description, no president or hero, unless it were Lindbergh, has ever received quite the ovation Dickens did on his visits to America. And he came the second time after he had written many caustic criticisms of us. Today his name is more of a household word than any other writer, living or dead. To be very brief with him, he was born at Landport in Portsea on the southern coast of England, February 7, 1812, and he died at his home, Gadshill Place, June 9, 1870. It is said of him that he overcame two of a writer's greatest obstacles— poverty and lack of an education. In appearance, he was small with clear, blue, intelligent eyes and quick movements. As the years passed on and he wrote. An almost impossible number of novels and stories, he grew more strained and nervous. Perhaps as a compensation for the poverty of his earlier years, he was inclined to be foppish in his dress. At nineteen he became a reporter. A few years later he dropped a little story into a "dark letter box in a dark office up a dark court in Fleet Street." Before he died, he was the most famous author in the world, and in addition to his many novels, stories, and Christmas books, he had managed a company of actors and given countless numbers of personal appearances, where he read his stories and impersonated his characters. It is said of him that he did a great deal to help the condition of the poor in England, to establish prison reform, and to. Forward education; yet he discharged a servant girl because he objected to her language, which she, poor thing, could not help. He was tender, and kind, 694 and sympathetic, and gave liberally to his family and friends and to any one in want; yet he was vain and conceited and he estranged his father and mother and many of his friends by his caricatures of them, and he made his lovely and intelligent wife's life miserable for a good many years. William Wilkie Collins Tales of mystery and horror have always been popular, and in late years the detective story and novel have grown even more so. "The Crime Club," made up of members who regularly subscribe for such books, is one of the modern developments of this kind of literature, The fact that many people, daily employed in strenuous mental work, find the completest relaxation in mystery stories is one of the reasons for their popularity. A second reason is another variation of the "escape mechanism." People read these stories and for a time forget their own troubles. William 'Wilkie Collins (1882- 1899) is a skillful writer of mystery tales, one of which, "A Terribly Strange Bed," appears in the text. He believed that plot was the most important part of the story, and it was his aim to make his readers follow his stories with breathless absorption. No one can read "A Terribly Strange Bed" and say that Collins failed. When Wilkie Collins was young, he was surrounded with the atmosphere of art, but his inclination was for writing. At first he wrote only for his amusement, being in turn a business man and a lawyer. He finally found that he could be more successful in writing. Some of his best collections are ''Moonstones," "A Woman in White," and "After Dark." RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE Oscar Wilde Oscar Wilde was a genius and an artist, but he was a man of too much artifice. He was born in 1854 at Dublin of distinguished parents. It was always his misfortune that he valued art above life. He was indifferent to almost everything save sensuous beauty; cared nothing for social questions of the day, though his imprisonment in an English jail was reflected in his most significant poem "Reading Gaol." Yet he wrote beautiful poetry, brilliant dramas, and charming fantasies, and as a Stylist he has not been excelled. Passion and affectation made Oscar Wilde weak in character, However, he could produce beauty, and because of this beauty he is assured a place among the immortals. For years he has been a favorite subject for biographers; perhaps the truth has not yet been learned about him. Two of his plays that have been produced almost every place that English is spoken are the "Importance of Being Earnest" and "Lady Windemere's Fan." "The Selfish Giant" is found in his "The Happy Prince and Other Tales." George Moore George Moore was born in Ireland, County Mayo, in 1852, of a distinguished statesman's family. He is aS many-sided a person as can be expected even of the great celebrity he is. In him there is the pagan, the Protestant, the artist, the realist, the. Stylist, the patriot, the antiIrishman, and the dramatist. And he started life a Catholic, When he was quite young he wrote poetry—his "Poems of Passion" being his best known—but he lost the gift as he grew older. Painting he loved better than anything in life, and had the sense, after giving it a fair trial, to know that he GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY could not win fame by following it. However, his essays on painting are among the best of his works. It was hard for him to separate himself from his writing—essays, novels, poems, dramas, or stories. Some part of him is always in them in a vivid way. At the time of the Boer War London disgusted him and he came back to Dublin for a ten year's stay. One of his friends during this period said that the reason Moore grew so dissatisfied with Ireland was that, brilliant actor that he was, he could find no audience. All of his Irish intimates were equally gifted in acting, and Moore could not be happy in the background. After ten years he disowned Ireland and her seeming futility. And Ireland hated him for his "Parnell's Island." Not even his '"Untilled Field," a collection of beautiful Irish folk tales, could heal the hurt that Moore had made. A critic of Moore said that he was a man who by personal taste liked to see his stories end happily, but would not allow them to do so for the sake of his art. Moore had great insight into people, especially into 695 women. Often he wrote of the lowly. Where Dickens would have said of these people: "How amusing," Moore's reaction was: "How alike everywhere is the human heart." Questions Which of the stories that you have read do you think best achieves the single impression? Why? What are the essentially British characteristics that you find in these stories? Could any of the stories have been written with another country for a background? Discuss. In which story or stories is plot emphasized, in which character, and in which setting? How does George Moore show his feeling toward the Catholic church in "Julia Cahill's Curse?" Do you think you could recognize other stories by these same authors? Discuss why? Why would Morrison's "That Brute Simmons" make a capital oneact play? How has Morrison achieved humor in this story? (Every one will enjoy Simmons. ) LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February) Personality Study: How to Change Persons Based on Overstreet's "Influencing Human Behavior," pages 143- Our previous lessons for the most part have dealt with the relatively simple and frequent methods which we employ to temporarily influence human conduct. We wish to capture someone's attention. How is it best accomplished? We wish to persuade a person to do this or that. What means are appropriate to employ? Our desire is to make our speech or writing more effective. How can psychology be of service here so that the ideas we express will stick long enough to accomplish the desired end? Such have been 696 the problems of our first four lessons and if we have been taking the work seriously enough, we are fairly well prepared to consider the next five lessons. We are now to attempt to understand the possibilities of influencing human behavior in more fundamental ways; also something of the more difficult and probably more interesting techniques that must be used in making these rather permanent changes in ourselves and others, Many people have the notion that our personalities are fixed for good or ill at birth or before. They say we are as helpless in making honest-to-goodness changes in our personal traits and characteristics as we would be in changing the color of our eyes. We have all heard them repeat with almost convincing effect such cliches as these: "She's redheaded so you know it is her nature to be hot-tempered;" "He's a chipfrom the old block and can't help but be that way;" "Human nature never changes," etc. Even the sayings about leopards not being able to change their spots and of sows returning immediately to wallow in the mire are given as if they applied with equal force to human beings. We have already had emphasized quite a different point of view in our previous lessons. We know that most competent psychologists would have us regard our personalities as not necessarily static or fixed, but as being still in the making. They would have us know that the saying that "human nature never changes" is at most only partly true. Probably no one is capable of settling for us the problem of the relative importance of heredity and environment or of the exact proportion of our behavior traits that really are inborn on the one hand or acquired on the other. As Overstreet says, RELIEF; SOCETY MAGAZINE "It is not always easy to say precisely where the human nature that is unchangeable leaves off and the human nature that is changeable begins." However, we can be sure that those parts of our behavior that are tentative, conscious, plastic and changing in character are in reality as much human nature as those parts that are characterized as being fixed, automatic, unconscious, unchanging, etc. In short, some parts of human nature are relatively static and rigid, so to speak, while other parts are subject to change and development. That human beings are not on the same plane as the great mass of the animal kingdom when it comes to considering the spossibilities for individual change and development is well stated in the following short quotation from Bagley's Educative Process, pages 30-31: "The lower animals are born with nerve connections already fixed and, except in the higher vertebrates, comparatively permanent and stable. In the nervous system of man, the entire cerebrum is practically unorganized at birth. It is a mass of latent possibilities, and whatsoever connections are made later are due almost entirely to the forces of the environment and not to the forces of heredity." The author of our text rightly insists that our insight into the nature and possibilities of human personality will be improved by considering it as a large number of more or less unified habit-systems rather than as an unanalyzable whole. As we said in Lesson Two, personality is not a mysterious entity—something wholly apart from our everyday habits, attitudes and ideals, It is made up of "all those traits and chracteristics of (one's) self that make or mar his efficiency in dealing with other individuals." In this GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY same lesson Bagby was quoted as C saying that the traits of personality are "essentially... Products of the training and the experience through which the individual has passed." From all of this it follows that personalities can be changed and that an important entering wedge for the improvement of a personality is to diagnose some of the habit deficiencies and then proceed with the "comparatively simple step-bystep process of redirecting and remoulding specific systems of habits." In understanding how to go about the job of building habits we are helped by a consideration of methods employed in training animals. In the text and also in the supplementary reference given below, will be found interesting accounts of how certain conditioned responses (or habits) are developed in the case of dogs. These experiments are important because they furnish us a simple pattern of the way all habit formation takes place. They help us to see the futility of admonition and exhortation as means of initiating the kind of habits we are interested in developing. If they are thoughtfully considered we can even understand how it is that the techniques we use at times may result in establishing habits absolutely opposed to the ones we think we are developing. For example we may unwittingly make misbehavior seem interesting to the child by the fact that it actually turns out to be exciting or profitable to him. In this connection read with especial care pages 162 and 163 of our text. It is perhaps hard for us to believe that in our efforts to help young people we use a technique which associates virtue with "dullness, suppression, scolding (and) being bad * * * with gaiety, approval, excitement, mastery." 697 Speaking of rewards and punishments we may summarize in part, in this paragraph a previous discussion of this subject by the writer: (1) Character development like other growth takes place from within and does not result from merely having children go through the outward motions of right conduct. (2) Corporal and other forms of severe punishment nearly always complicate the process of reforming the wrong-doer. At best they constitute only a beginning and should be followed by evidences of "love unfeigned." (See D. & C. 121:41-44.) (3) Rewards and punishments should be just and appropriate. They should seem to follow the acts as their natural and invariable consequences. Therefore they should not be so artificial or capricious as not to be operative in any good social group. (4) Learners should not be denied the advantage of making some mistakes, especially such as are not too serious or incompatible with safety. Some guidance in the early stages of each learning process may be quite helpful, but who has not seen numerous examples of pitiful personalities with whom parental or teacher-guidance has been carried too far? No discussion of the topic of this lesson would seem complete to the writer without a quotation of the classic rules given by William James for the formation of habits. They are as follows: (1) "In the acquisition of a new habit, or the leaving off of an old one, we must take care to launch ourselves with as strong and decided an initiative as possible. (2) Never suffer an exception to occur till the new habit is securely rooted in your life. (3) Seize the very first possible opportunity to act on every resolution you make, and on every emotional prompting you may experience in 698 the direction of the habits you aspire to gain. (4) Keep the faculty of effort alive in you by a little gratuitous exercise every day." Supplementary Reference Poulson—"Human Nature," pages 7- 24, 31-32, 74-82. (This reference is to the Teacher Training text used throughout the Church durng 1927-28. Since nearly 10,000 copies of this little book were distributed at that time we are assuming that there are enough of them still available to justify the reference to it in this connection although it is now out of print. Future references to supplementary material such as this will be omitted in forthcoming lessons if the editor of the Magazine receives information at once that the little book is not available in most of the wards and that the material referred to in it is not actually helpful. Those wards not being able to locate this supplementary reference can get along very well with the material furnished by Overstreet and in the Magazine.) A Few of the Possible Problems for Discussion 1, Distinguish between social heredity and physical heredity. Why RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE is social heredity so very important in human development? 2. Discuss rather fully the statement that "human nature never changes." 3. Why is it so important for us not to develop too many fixed ideas? How is eternal life and progress related to our open-mindedness and teachability here and now? When do people become old fogies? 4. Give the best definition of personality that you can. Show how habit-systems are related to one's personality. 5. Discuss each of the rules of habit formation quoted from James. 6. Discuss the propositions given above on rewards and punishments. 7. Relate the circumstances of the profound changing of a personality given in the text, pages 149-152. Add an account of a similar case. 8. In what ways may habits be our servants and set us free so to speak? How may they enslave us or hinder our progress? Discuss fully. Bellini THE VIRGIN AND CHILD WITH ST. PAUL AND ST. GEORGE Such. As I By Bertha A. Kleinman I hope I never climb so high Above the swarted plain, That homely tasks that test and try Shall humble me or mortify Or kindle my disdain. I hope I never learn so much Of rare philosophy That I shall lose the 'common touch" _. The home folks atmosphere and such Of those who do for me. I never want that fling of power— Not even for a day— That anything obscure should cower Or make of me a conning tower Of things you do and say. I never want to soar so far That plain things pass me by, My vision though it trail'a star, Begins where home and home tasks are, Mid plain folks such as I. Earthbound By Grace Zenor Pratt Sometimes my soul clings to this earth, I know not why Oftimes the dross, the crude, the minor things Appeal, and draw me on relentless wings; I love the ease, the pampering of self— The laughter of the multitude, the careless smile, I love the swish of silks, the music of the dance— All this has power to hold me, to entrance. It is not ever so, for there are times When the spirit rises from the earthy way— Glimpses of mystic vales, fragments of song Have power to fill my soul with ecstasy. -All my temptations—comforts held so dear, Are naught to me when heaven seems so near. How complex is this earth-bound soul of mine, Clinging to life with all its cares and joys, Seeking an upward path with groping hands, Thrusting aside the doubting which annoys, Searching for light, and failing, strives, once more C To glimpse a clearer vision of that shore. Back to the Fountain Head By Theodore E. Curtis Back yonder in the ancient night The prophet Malichi Beheld afar, in vision bright, A judgment from the sky Descending like an avalanche And in the flaming day He saw the wicked, root and branch Pass from the earth away. Before that dreadful day would come Elijah would be sent To plant in every Christian. Home The ancient covenant— To turn the children's hearts again To their repentant dead And weld the old parental chain Back to the fountain head. But look! (Oh age of miracles) A sudden burst of light Breaks from the Kirtland Temple halls Across the dusky night. Elijah comes! Hail to his name! The judgment is at hand, His spirit kindles like a flame Encircling the land. According to the seer's dream His priesthood is restored— Another monumental stream Into the ocean poured. The mystery is cleared away The eager saints arise, And lo! Our temple—towers today Rekindled in the skies. Old Fashioned ROYAL FRUIT CAKE Pay off the mortgage Cn the monthly payment loan we offer to home owners, owning prop- | HOLIDAYS erty in the choice resiLake, Ogden and Provo, necessary part of the joyous Yuletide season. Just ask your grocer for a ROYAL FRUIT CAKE. It's made with nine different kinds of fruit— and fresh eggs and creamery butter! Order from your grocer Made by the makers of LONG ROYAL BREAD No Commission No Red Tape, | Ashton-JenkinsCo. L ROYAL BAKING F Correspondents Equitable COMPANY Life Assurance Society of the United States. 4 Salt Lake City and Ogden Te Cpt WIQYYINGS Both are Here, Be it an Appropriate Book or Other Gift— or Just the Paper-Seals, Tags and Ribbonzene to Wrap your Gifts— Your Every Xmas Need Can be Supplied by DESERET BOOK COMPANY P. O. Box 179344 East On South Temple St.—Salt Lake City, Utah "When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine your home by way of dential deistricts of Salt Get one for the An old-fashioned fruit cake is a After A Million Years BLUE Sesgo MILK / Puddings Pies ""¢ Custar BLAZE COAL Comes to you from _ glittering seams deep in the earth, filled with heat energy. IGNITES READILY BURNS STEADILY Remarkably free from smoke, ash and clinkers, Blue Blaze Coal Company ot ia What Shall I Give for Christmas? The Relief Society Magazine What could a dollar purchase that would be as acceptable as a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine? A subscription will be a monthly reminder of your love. Why not, as an organization, subscribe for the 'Relief Society Magazine for the widows in your Ward? Also for your lady missionaries? Note: Send the name and address where the Magazine is to be sent and your own name and we will send a card of greeting bearing your name to your friend. WHEN DOES YOUR SUBSCRIPTION EXPIRE? Why not subscribe now and make sure of receiving every number for the next year. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine 1102 Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City, Utah Creams Rival At All Grocer's | That reflect your /| Personatity i ERE you will find Cards in infinite va- | [keteeet riety of artistic designing and _ appropriate greetings.... Distinctive )} cards to express your indi- | viduality.... See this superb collection while it is complete.... Choose now..... ON Your name can be im.-. Printed on the Christmas cards you send out this year at very small additional cost. "+" We are prepared to take care of this for you, matching | your name with the type on the cards you select. Vv [fh e Deseret News Press 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City REMEMBER: Select Your Cards Now a LE, ALREADY SUPERIOR— NOW BETTER STILL! "MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS. Equipped with STOP-LOSS POCKETS wear longer—give greater satisfaction The same famous "Mountaineer" quality of materials, design and workmanship—with these famous new pockets, which really protect your tools and ghee etc., included at no extra cost you. ' Ask for them at your Dealer's!. Mountaineer Overalls and Work Suits (equipped with Stop-Loss Pockets) _ Are Manufacfured by Z C. M. I. CLOTHING FACTORY Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magabine MRS OLIVIA P sensen Si} 32RD EAST 103 WA ae mrTY vuTAK Exp (ite PARENTS— _Youul 7. Problem Solved | (or problem of selecting a college with which 1 2 { 4 entrust the business training of your sons and daughters is of the utmost importance. _ lives are involyed—your own flesh and ble and the training received will become an inseparable p of those lives. If good it will bring success and I if poor. It will prove a handicap for life.. 'The development of character is the chief aim of al a), education, and you lwant to be sure that, your sons - anc a 4 daughters will be surrounded by good influences. You | want them to gain in business integrity as well as ir a A knowledge and technical ability, and no matter how goo d their home training has been their character will be | ie fat fluenced by the-environment in which they' Sova b a), -, business education. Fe oe vitae At L. D. S. The maintenance of a al moral stan dard is considered of first importance, and' when 'you. Ent ' your sons and daughters to our, care you may be s that they will be surrounded by influences that will mak for upright manhood and: womanhood, as well as fo ro educational thoronghness. ° 4 A ' 4 Wea Doesn't this appeal to you? You cannot rial Wh: d i¢ dollars and cents the advantage of having your daughters: receive business training amid lev and refining influences. You need have no fear a ndin them to us alone, for we will take your place at ". After their mental, moral and_ physical' welfare, al ",-eam rest assured that when they leave: us they fully equipped for 'the fature'in evens ar =e Bi ane ass i ed " 4 ria ee Wty ' soorsesorooes:. When Bs 4 Mention ty 'i at wd