[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Early Amusements in Utah Sarah Jane Rich Miller]

Early Amusements in Utah. By Sarah Jane Rich Miller. The first winter in the Old Fort was a busy time, as hauling woo 1 from the canyons, feeding and taking care of the stock, such as horses, sheep, cows, oxen and even goats, kept the men at work ail day. Amusements were not much indulged in  sometimes a range would be given in some home that had a "puncheon floor," if the lady of the house would consent to let it be used for that purpose, as dirt floors were the fashion in those days. Visiting was more indulged in, as the lady of the house would generally get up a good meal and the men would come to supper, and the evening would be spent in innocent games. In the early 50's President Young, as Trustee-in-Trust. had a bath house built for the Church, and in the front of this, was a dwelling for the care-taker, as well as place for amusement. There was a large dancing hall, also a long dining room. This was fitted up for public entertainments, and Brother Hendricks and family, of Haunts Mill fame, were placed in charge, and here the "swell" dances of that time were given. Tickets were sent out, and reasonable prices charged the invited guests. This was to pay the expenses of lights, music and supper. These parties generally commenced in the afternoon at two o'clock. At these parties, a program would sometimes be given at intermission, usually singing, recitations and fancy dancing. I remember going to a wedding party when William Hendricks and Jane Andrews were married. A dance was given and supper was served. President Young was in a happy mood and full of fun. He called on Thomas Bullock and wife to sing the comic duet, "I Won't be Made. I Swear I Won't, To Keep Time Like a Watch." This was a quarrel between man and wife, bemuse the man had staid out late, but did not want to tell where. ft was a great hit and brought down the house. President Young always remembered the wives of those on missions an 1 sent them invitations to attend these entertainments. I sometimes went with my mother. This house was afterwards used as a hotel, with Jesse C. Little in charge. The first house built in Utah which stood at the corner of First North and West Temple streets, was used for dancing and he-longed to Sister Carrington. She would move her furniture and beds out into the garden and let the room to the young folks for a dance, and after the dance was over the young men would place the things back in the room, and thus all went home satisfied. 
 Mrs. Alfred Lampson also allowed her house to be used for dances. At these home dances only one cotillion could be danced at once, but they kept things going and did not allow the floor to get cold until intermission. The music at these small parties was usually two violins, and sometimes an accordion would accompany them. When larger parties were wanted the schoolhouses were obtained, and later the Social Hall was built for both dancing and theatricals. In the hall many happy hours were spent; here, in the early 30's, the Polysophical Society used to hold its meetings and also its dances. This was the first of any organized social work in Utah. and was inaugurated by Lorenzo Snow. Claudius V. Spencer. Henry W. Xaisbitt. William Eddington, and others, and was for instruction as well as our amusements. The Polysophical was patronized by the best society in Utah, and many happy hours were spent at these meetings and entertainments.