[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Shoemaker]
[POETRY In Joyful Trust — Frontispiece Iris W. Schow 785 Sacred Night Lela Foster Morris 793 First Fall Margery S. Stewart 797 A Prayer for Christmas Margaret B. Shoemaker]
ence. I  re-read  the  poetry  in  the  July 
issue  and  found  it  all  most  delicate,  deep, 
and  appealing.  Since  now  there  seem  to 
be  few  places  where  such  lovely  poetry 
is  printed,  I  want  to  let  you  know  how 
much  I  enjoy  and  appreciate  the  Maga- 
zine. 
— Dorothy  J.  Roberts 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Please  accept  my  appreciation  for  a 
wonderful  Magazine.  ]\Iv  family  have 
enjoyed  it  \ery  much.  M\'  thanks  go  to 
my  sisters  in  Libby,  Montana,  for  the 
wonderful  opportunity  to  enjov  Relief 
Society  and  the  Afagazine.  It  was  a 
source  of  great  joy  to  me  through  several 
months  of  illness  last  }ear.  I  looked  for- 
ward to  each  new  issue  and  read  every 
Magazijie  sexeral  times. 
— Esther  Eilertsen 
Libby,  Montana 
I  simply  can't  let  another  month  go 
by  without  letting  you  know  of  my  ap- 
preciation for  the  Magazine.  Since  my 
grammar  school  days  it  has  played  a  big 
part  in  my  life  —  my  mother  read  the 
stories  to  us  then.  I  shall  never  forget  one 
story  in  particular  —  "Grandma  Jack- 
son" —  which  was  in  the  Magazine  about 
1947,  We  lo\'ed  to  read  it  over  and  over. 
Having  been  a  member  of  Relief  Society 
since  my  early  'teens,  I  have  had  close 
contact  with  the  Magazine,  and  now,  as 
a  Magazine  representative  for  our  branch, 
I  can  truly  say  it  is  a  joy,  for  it  sells 
itself. 
— Valeria  M.  Mitchell 
Athens,  Alabama 
The  articles  in  the  Magazine  inspire  me 
to  live  better  each  day  and  continually 
build  upon  my  testimony,  and  thus  the 
testimonies  of  my  family  are  influenced. 
The  lessons  are  giving  me  a  rich  and 
varied  education  and  a  text  to  teach  and 
be  taught  by.  I  have  served  as  presi- 
dent, secretary,  \isiting  teacher,  and  class 
leader  for  the  work  meeting  and  litera- 
ture class.  Through  these  years  the 
Magazine  has  been  my  companion  and 
guide.  The  reactions  of  women  in  the 
Church  to  a  wide  variety  of  experiences 
are  brought  out  in  the  stories  in  such  a 
way  that  I  feel  as  if  I  were  there.  These 
women  influence  my  reactions  to  my 
problems,  my  large  family,  my  dear  hus- 
band, and  my  Church. 
— Beth  Milner  Raynes 
Menlo  Park,  California 
I  enjoy  The  Rehef  Society  Magazine 
immensely  and  look  foru'ard  to  it  every 
month.  At  times  when  I  need  help 
spiritually  and  mentally,  and  I  read  the 
Magazine,  I  am  always  inspired  and  life 
seems  more  worth\\hile  and  gives  me  just 
the  uplift  that  I  need,  and,  at  other  times, 
when  I  need  to  be  humbled,  it  does  that, 
too.  I  think  it  is  one  of  the  best  Maga- 
zines published  anyuhere. 
— Mrs.  Aleta  Drew 
Orem,  Utah 
Page  786