[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
Six  til    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woiiiaii's  Exponent,  December  1901 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
SPECIAL  CONFERENCE  —  RELIEF  SOCIETY  REORGANIZED:  .  .  . 
This  became  necessary  on  account  of  the  demise  of  the  late  beloved  President,  Sister 
Zina  D.  H.  Young,  who  has  held  the  position  for  thirteen  years,  ha\'ing  been  appointed 
l)v  President  Wilford  Woodruff  and  sustained  at  the  April  Conference  in  1888,  being 
the  third  president  in  order  since  the  Society  was  first  organized  in  1842,  when  Sister 
Emma  Smith  \\as  elected  president,  and  afterwards  Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow  ,  .  .  who 
presided  for  many  years,  having  been  called  by  President  Young  before  her  regular 
appointment  on  June  21,  1880,  by  President  John  Taylor.  .  .  .  We  now  have  our 
fourth  President.  .  .  .  President  Bathsheba  W.  Smith  was  selected  by  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  Apostles  of  the  Church,  in  Council,  on  Thursday,  October  31,  1901.  .  .  . 
—  Editorial 
RETURN  OF  A  TRAVELER:  Sister  Lucy  B.  Young,  who  has  .  .  .  been 
absent  from  Utah  for  over  twenty  years  has  returned  home  from  her  traNcls,  She  spent 
most  of  the  time  in  Germany  in  charge  of  her  granddaughter.  Miss  Emma  Lucy  Gates, 
who  has  been  studying  music  abroad,  most  of  the  time  in  Berlin.  Mrs.  Young  while 
in  Germany  was  appointed  to  preside  over  the  branches  of  the  Relief  Society  in  that 
mission  and  will  be  able  to  give  us  definite  information  concerning  the  work  of  this 
charitable  organization  in  that  country.  .  ,  . 
—  Editorial  Notes 
THE  NATAL  DAY 
....  Now,  while  Christendom  rejoices, 
Let  all  blend  their  grateful  voices. 
All  the  world  in  one  grand  union. 
On  Christ's  birthday  hold  communion. 
Sacred  truth  is  now  appealing 
To  each  inmost  soul  revealing. 
Cause  of  praise  and  true  thanksgiving, 
That  the  Gospel  still  is  living. 
—  Ellis  R.  Shipp 
CHRISTMAS  THOUGHTS:  ....  May  this  be  a  happy  Christmas,  with  peace 
and  goodwill  and  plenty  for  all  —  that  the  hearts  of  the  poor  may  be  made  glad,  that 
there  may  be  no  suffering  for  food  or  raiment  in  this  goodly  land,  and  faith  and  confi- 
dence may  increase  among  the  Saints,  and  may  that  good  fellowship  which  manifests 
itself  in  deeds  of  benevolence  abound  and  the  charity  which  is  long-suffering  and  kind, 
and  faith  and  love  grow  stronger  until  each  one  can  love  his  neighbor  as  himself 
according  to  the  words  of  the  blessed  Savior  whose  birth  men  and  women  profess 
to  celebrate. 
—  Editorial 
A  HAPPY  AFTERNOON:  Sister  Johanna  Nystrom,  of  the  Twentieth  Ward,  of 
this  city,  gave  a  delightful  dinner  party  to  the  aged  and  infirm  widows  of  the  ward.  .  .  . 
Some  of  the  favorite  songs  of  Zion  ucrc  sung,  prayer  was  offered  and  earnest  heartfelt 
testimonies  were  borne  .  .  .  and  several  interesting  recitations  were  gi\en.  ...  At 
five  o'clock  the  company  sat  down  to  n  fine  old-fashioned  dinner,  .  .  . 
—  News  Note 
Page  822

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
ly/TRS.  EMILY  SMITH  STE- 
^  ^  WART,  daughter  of  President 
George  Albert  Smith,  who  has  been 
chairman  of  Salt  Lake  County  Chap- 
ter, National  Foundation,  in  the 
fight  against  polio,  has  resigned  that 
position,  although  she  will  still  serve 
as  vice-chairman  in  the  Foundation's 
Salt  Lake  County  Chapter.  She  has 
worked  in  the  organization  for 
twenty  years,  has  won  wide  inter- 
national recognition.  She  has  now 
become  international  director  of 
Phi  Sigma  Alpha,  a  new  organiza- 
tion for  helping  lonely  people.  She 
will  travel  in  many  parts  of  the 
world  helping  the  lonely  ones  to 
organize  cultural,  social,  literary,  and 
group  activities  in  their  com- 
munities. 
A/f  ARGARET  F.  CONAWAY  is 
a  highly  skilled  social  worker 
who  lived  in  the  East  and  became 
converted  to  the  Church.  She  be- 
came deeply  interested  in  the 
Lamanites,  from  reading  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  as  a  result  trans- 
ferred her  efforts  to  social  work 
among  the  Indians.  She  taught 
them  in  Pine  Ridge  Reservation, 
South  Dakota,  and  she  now  works 
among  the  Cheyenne  River  Reser- 
vation Indians  in  Montana.  She 
helps  these  Indian  families  with 
problems  of  every  description. 
"r\R.  CONNIE  GUION,  at  the 
age  of  seventy-nine,  practices 
medicine  from  7:30  a.m.  to  6  p.m. 
in  New  York  City.  She  is  also  a 
gifted  teacher,  a  noted  research 
worker,  and  a  much-in-demand  pub- 
lic speaker,  with  a  delightful  sense 
of  humor.  The  vast  new  hospital 
under  construction  in  New  York, 
which  will  house  most  of  the  city's 
eighty-six  clinics,  bears  her  name, 
the  first  time  a  woman  has  been  so 
honored  in  America. 
glLLIE  PAT  DANIELS  set  the 
American  girls'  mark  in  the  400 
and  800-mcter  races  last  summer  at 
the  American  tryouts  for  the  Olymp- 
ic games,  in  Corpus  Christi,  Texas. 
Miss  Daniels  is  now  a  student  at 
Brigham  Young  University  in  Provo, 
Utah.  In  the  i960  Olympics  she 
fell  and  did  not  finish.  She  hopes 
to  compete  in  the  next  Olympic 
games.    She  is  a  native  of  Utah. 
pEARL  BUCK,  Pulitzer  and  No- 
bel prize  winner,  continues  her 
writing  of  fiction  which  stirs  the 
heart  to  kindness  and  wide  apprecia- 
tion. In  a  biographical  sketch  of 
her,  her  husband,  Richard  Walsh, 
says,  'Tew  modern  writers  have 
done  so  much  to  further  the  com- 
mon understanding  of  the  human 
heart." 
Page  823

EDITORIAL 
VOL.  48 
DECEMBER  1961 
NO.  12 
Q/ne  i3ist  Semi-Jrinnual  (church   (conference 
npHE  131st  Semi-Annual  Confer- 
ence of  the  Church  was  held 
in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  September  29th  and  30th, 
and  October  1,  1961.  Under  mild 
autumn  skies,  the  saints  assembled 
to  hear  again  the  word  of  the  Lord 
and  counsel  and  comfort  from  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 
It  was  estimated  that  over  a  million 
listeners  heard  the  proceedings  by 
radio  or  television.  President  David 
O.  McKay,  venerable  and  beloved 
Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator,  con- 
ducted all  six  general  sessions  and 
the  Priesthood  meeting. 
A  feeling  of  sadness  pervaded  the 
audience  to  see  the  vacant  chair  of 
ninety-year-old  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.,  who  was  confined  to  his 
home.  Other  General  Authorities 
absent  from  the  conference  meet- 
ings were  Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie 
and  Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  who 
are  presiding  over  missions,  respec- 
tively, in  Australia  and  South  Ameri- 
ca. The  far-reaching  growth  and 
widening  influence  of  the  Church 
were  reported. 
Elder  Gordon  Bitner  Hinckley, 
an  Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  since  1948,  was  sustained 
as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  to  fill  the  vacancy  arising 
from  the  appointment,  in  June 
1961,  of  Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  to 
be  a   member   of   the   First   Presi- 
Page  824 
dency.  Two  new  Assistants  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  were  sus- 
tained: Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson, 
former  counselor  in  the  Presiding 
Bishopric,  and  Boyd  K.  Packer,  a 
member  of  the  administrative  coun- 
cil of  Brigham  Young  University 
and  the  Church  School  System. 
The  Presiding  Bishopric,  Joseph  L. 
Wirthlin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  were  released, 
and  Elders  John  H.  Vandenberg, 
Robert  L.  Simpson,  and  Victor  L. 
Brown  appointed.  Also  released 
were  President  Bertha  S.  Reeder  of 
the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association,  and  her 
Counselors  Emily  H.  Bennett  and 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  together  with 
all  members  of  the  board.  Ap- 
pointed as  the  new  presidency  were 
Florence  Smith  Jacobsen,  Margaret 
Romney  Jackson,  and  Dorothy 
Porter  Holt. 
In  stirring  and  inspirational  mes- 
sages of  hope  and  faith,  the  saints 
were  counseled  to  observe  all  the 
principles  and  ordinances  of  the 
gospel  and  to  walk  humbly  before 
the  Lord  in  these  times  of  confusion 
and  adversity  in  the  world. 
IN  his  opening  address,  President 
McKay  announced  as  his  text: 
''Be  of  good  courage,  and  he  shall 
strengthen  your  heart,  all  ye  that 
hope  in  the  Lord"  (Psalms  31:24). 
Declaring  freedom  to  be  a  gift  from 
God,  President  McKay  said: