[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
[Visiting Teacher Messages — "According to Men's Faith It Shall Be Done Unto Them" Christine H. Robinson]
5.  Discuss:    It   is    possible    to   become 
perfect  in  many  ways  in  this  life. 
Visiting  cJeacher    1 1 Lessages — 
Truths  to  Live  By  From  The  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Message  38  —  "According  to  Men's  Faith   It  Shall  Be  Done  Unto  Them" 
(D  &  C  52:20). 
Christine  H.  Robinson 
For  Tuesday,  March  6,  1962 
Objective:     To  show  the  remarkable  power  and  blessings  of  faith. 
npHROUGHOUT  the  scriptures, 
ancient  and  modern,  no  truth 
is  emphasized  more  repeatedly  and 
clearly  than  the  promise  that  the 
Lord  will  bestow  blessings  upon  us 
according  to  our  faith.  Since  the 
davs  of  Adam,  God's  children  have 
been  admonished  to  '\valk  by  faith." 
In  the  solution  of  all  their  problems, 
they  ha\'e  been  urged  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  this  limitless  reservoir  of 
power.  So  great  is  the  power  of 
this  principle  that  the  Lord  has 
said,  '\  .  .  If  ve  have  faith  as  a  grain 
of  mustard  seed  .  .  .  nothing  shall  be 
impossible  unto  you"  (Mt.  17:20). 
The  scriptures  are  replete  with 
outstanding  examples  of  remarkable 
faith.  The  stories  of  Abraham  and 
Lehi  both  echo  this  absolute  con- 
\iction.  "Bv  faith  Abraham,  when 
he  was  called  to  go  out  into  a 
place  .  .  .  went  out,  not  knowing 
whither  .  .  ."  (Hebrews  11:8).  Lehi, 
obedient  unto  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
took  his  family  and  departed  into 
the  wilderness,  leaxing  the  land  of 
his  inheritance,  his  home,  his  gold 
and  silver  and  precious  things. 
In  the  Old  Testament,  examples 
are  told  of  how,  through  the  power 
of  faith,  Moses  led  the  children  of 
Israel  through  the  parted  waters  of 
the  Red  Sea,  how  David  vanquished 
Goliath,  and  how  the  Lord  shut  the 
mouths  of  the  lions  and  saved  his 
prophet  Daniel. 
The  New  Testament  has  many 
accounts  of  the  great  miracles  the 
Savior  and  his  disciples  wrought 
through  the  application  of  faith. 
Through  faith  the  sick  were  healed, 
the  blind  were  given  sight,  and  the 
dead  brought  back  to  life. 
Among  the  many  examples  of  the 
power  of  faith  in  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, two  particularly  stand  out. 
One  is  the  story  of  Helaman  and  his 
two  thousand  sons.  These  young 
men  fought  a  great  and  victorious 
battle  against  the  Lamanites  and 
not  one  soul  perished  because  of 
the  exceeding  great  faith  in  that 
which    their    mothers    had    taught
