[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Boyd K. | Author: Tingey]
[Boyd K. Packer Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Dale T. Tingey]
Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer  Appointed 
Assistant  to  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve 
Dale  T.  Tingcy 
General  Supervisor  of  Seminaries  and  Institutes  of  Religion 
ber  10,  1924.  He  was  the  tenth  of 
eleven  children  born  to  Ira  W.  and 
Emma  Jensen  Packer  in  Brigham 
City,  Utah.  Elder  Packer  counts  him- 
self fortunate  indeed  to  have  been 
reared  in  a  home  characterized  bv 
great  love  and  devotion.  The  pass- 
ing years  have  not  altered  this  family 
unity. 
As  a  young  man  Elder  Packer 
enlisted  in  the  United  States  Air 
Force. 
At  the  cessation  of  the  war,  Elder 
Packer  commenced  his  college  train- 
ing at  Weber  College.  Both  the 
Bachelor  and  Master  Degrees  were 
earned  at  Utah  State  University.  His 
doctorate  work  in  the  field  of  edu- 
cational administration  is  now  near- 
ing  completion  at  Brigham  Young 
University. 
It  was  while  he  was  speaking  at  a 
sacrament  meeting  in  Brigham  Citv, 
that  a  lovely  girl  whispered,  'That 
is  the  type  of  person  I  would  like 
to  marry."  Boyd  K.  Packer  and 
Donna  Smith  were  married  in  the 
Logan  temple  July  27,  1947.  Today 
they  rejoice  in  their  family  of  eight 
choice  spirits,  five  boys  and  three 
girls. 
The  Packers  live  on  a  miniature 
farm  in  Lindon.  Brother  Packer 
who,  himself,  loves  the  out-of-doors, 
finds  one  of  his  greatest  pleasures  in 
following  the  trails  on  Timpanogos 
Boy  art  Studio 
ELDER  BOYD  K,  PACKER 
ONE  lonely  night  during  World 
War  II,  a  young  air  force 
cadet,  discouraged  and  home- 
sick, poured  out  his  soul  to  his 
Heavenly  Father.  In  that  humble 
and  earnest  supplication,  he  prom- 
ised God  that  if  he  would  help  him 
to  succeed  in  accomplishing  life's 
real  purpose  and  to  resist  tempta- 
tion, he  would  dedicate  himself  to 
the  Lord.  On  September  30,  1961, 
this  same  young  man  answered  a 
call  to  the  office  of  President  McKay 
and  was  informed  that  he  had  been 
chosen  as  an  Assistant  to  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve. 
Boyd  K.  Packer  was  born  Septem- 
Poge

EDLER  BOYD  K.  PACKER  APPOINTED  ASSISTANT  TO  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  809 
ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER  AND  HIS  FAMILY 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  Russell  Packer;  Kathleen  Packer;  Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer; 
Gayle  Ann  Packer;  Donna  Smith  Packer,  wife  of  Elder  Packer;  Spencer  Packer. 
Back  row,  left  to  right:  David  Packer;  Allan  Packer;  Kenneth  Packer;  Laurel 
Packer. 
on  his  horse,  with  one  of  his  sons 
riding  at  his  side. 
Elder  Packer's  heartfelt  desire  is 
that  his  children  live  close  to  the 
Lord.  The  same  love  and  close- 
knit  relationship  enjoyed  by  Brother 
and  Sister  Packer  in  their  childhood 
homes,  have  carried  over  into  their 
own  home.  Anyone  who  has  met 
Sister  Packer  readily  recognizes  that 
Brother  Packer  receives  much  en- 
couragement and  inspiration  from 
her. 
He  has  always  taken  an  active  part 
in  community  affairs.  For  four 
years  he  was  a  member  of  the  City 
Council  in  Brigham  City,  and  re- 
ceived the  Distinguished  Service 
Award  in  1947  from  the  Junior 
Chamber  of  Commerce. 
Elder  Packer  has  a  great  desire 
to  help  the  Indian  people.  He  pio- 
neered the  Seminary  program  for 
Latter-day  Saint  Indian  students  at 
the  Intermountain  Indian  School  in 
Brigham  City.  Intense  interest  in 
the  Indian  people  has  taken  him  to 
Indian  reservations  in  all  parts  of 
the  United  States  and  in  Canada. 
From  the  small  beginning  in  1949, 
the  Indian  program  has  grown  to 
eighty-five  Indian  Seminaries  with 
3500  students  involved. 
Two  characteristics  of  Brother 
Packer  which  contribute  to  his 
exemplary  life  are  his  complete 
obedience  to  authority  and  his  will- 
ingness to  work.  As  supervisor  of 
Seminaries  and  Institutes  of  Reli- 
gion, his  attitude  has  been  to  follow 
the  leadership  of  the  brethren.  His 
willingness  to  remain  on  a  problem 
or  project,  regardless  of  the  hours, 
is  a  characteristic  recognized  by  all 
who  work  with  him.  He  has  been 
heard  to  say  that  hard  work  com- 
pensates  for  a  lack  of  talent  and