[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 14 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Conferen]
[Editorial: /the 131st Semi-Annual Church Conference]
TABLECLOTH AND CENTERPIECE All of us enjoy eating more when attractive food is placed on an artistic table. Christmas especially lends itself to some extra, festive touch. This table decoration is inexpensive and fun to create. The cloth is made from 7% yards of green cotton. This is easily made by cutting the yardage in half and cutting one half lengthwise, flat seaming the two narrow pieces on cach side of the wide piece, then border it with white fringe. You will enjoy making the dolls from cones picked up from under pine trees. The cones form the body, a Styrofoam ball the head, and pipe cleaners the arms. Skirts are made from a circle of art paper, and hats from the tops of the cones or cut from art paper. Faces can be painted on with water colors or cut from felt scraps. Hair for the dolls is made of yarn. Evergreen tree limbs, sprayed with commercial snow, and a gas lamp complete the arrangement. 'Oh, Little Sown Beatrice R. Parsons S she opened the office door A marked: REAL ESTATE, RALPH EWING, the midDecember snowflakes buffeted the gray hair beneath Emma Lorimer's perky blue hat. She brushed them away, smiled at the pretty young girl behind the desk, and asked, "How are you, Alma?" Alma's large brown eyes were shadowed. "Homesick," she confessed wistfully. "I won't be going home for Christmas. 'Too much work." There was a boom in real estate. The city was growing like a brush fire, spilling over into rural communities. A large manufacturing plant was being built. Young couples and their small families were crowded into trailer parks and motels. An inner door opened, and Ralph Ewing came out to shake Emma's hand firmly. He was a youthful forty-five with the habit of raising his right shoulder as though forever shouldering aside anything that got in his way. "You're lucky, Mrs. Lorimer," he said briskly, "I have a buyer for your old house. The location in Laytonia, there on that rise of land, is perfect for a super-market." He was smug. "You can't stand in the way of progress, can you? Ina few years, Laytonia will be a bustling little city." Emma couldn't imagine it. As long as she could remember, Laytonia had been a peaceful little town filled with growing children and elderly people who had owned their homes since they were young. "Now that your husband is gone..." said Ralph sympathetically, "the house is too big for you. So much work. Right now you can sell and make a very nice profit. It would be foolish to wait. You might be the loser." He caught her elbow, ushered her into the snowy street, and into his sleek, red car at the curb. He was so enterprising, so sure of himself, that Emma had to smile. Yet she had to agree. It was only sensible to sell her house while there was a demand for it. The red car slid to a slushy stop before a tall, slim building with a dignified placque: The Plaza Arms. They entered the lobby of the modern apartment building into a sea of pale-blond tile. There was a haughty white Christmas tree near the self-help elevator. They moved silently to the ninth floor. Mr. Ewing fitted a key in a door. Emma found herself quite carried away by the thick, wall-to-wall carpeting, the handsome, copper-toned drapes. The furniture, Danish modern, was, she found, more comfortable than she had expected. Mr. Ewing waved an expansive hand. "Everything at your fingertips, Mrs. Lorimer." He mentioned the compactness of the tiny kitchen, the restfulness of hidden lights, the dainty loveliness of the small bedroom. "Tm sure you will enjoy living here," said Mr. Ewing with finality, as he led her to the elevator, and Page 829 830 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1961 assisted her into his car. It swung out into hurrying traffic, past lighted shop windows and strands of colored lights. Huge, shining. Stars hung between tall buildings. A group of children stood at one window, their eyes glowing over the display of toys. "My husband Bob and J," said Emma reminiscently, "used to bring our little ones into the city for shopping." Mr. Ewing stopped on a red light. "I don't have time to take my kids. My wife complains of all the people pushing and shoving." He started again on the green light. "Sometimes I think Christmas is just a time of worry, worry, worry!" He seemed so pleased with himself at his diagnosis that Emma wanted to say: "Rob and I found a lot of joy and pleasure in it." But she was silent, lost in warm memories. The car glided out into the highway, leaving the city lights behind. It passed several small communities where snow-touched skeletons of new buildings raised unfamiliar frames among the small homes. It mounted the rise towards Emma's home, and she could see the neat streets and cozy houses stretching away beneath them. Mr. Ewing stopped in the ankle-deep snow of her driveway. He glanced deprecatingly at the outline of the old, square house. "You'll be glad you made the deal, Mrs. Lorimer. It must be lonely, rattling around in those big rooms alone." He got back in the car, started it, and leaned forward to say: "I'll draw up the papers. You can come in, in the morning, and sign them." 'Then his car disappeared down the rise. CONSCIOUS of snow gathering chillingly about her galoshes, Emma moved up the steps to the front porch. She was remembering how proud Rob had been when they bought the house. "It's a place for living, Emma. It's going to be one of the family. It will see children born. Watch them grow. It will ring with laughter, keep warm with love. It will be our home. Laytonia will be our town." He had kissed her, then, and letting herself inside the darkened hall, Emma seemed to feel his lips warm against her own. Her finger trembled as she pushed a switch, flooding the rooms with light. } The house had been built when substantial family homes, with bedrooms upstairs and living rooms down, had been the fashion. It was sadly out of date, compared with that apartment at the Plaza Arms! Instinctively, Emma_ glanced at the tall staircase, as though expecting a child to come hurtling down the banister to greet her. But the house was silent. So silent it hurt her ears. It swept over her that the house had been mute, waiting, for five years, ever since Rob had left it. His big chair still stood by the fireplace. 'There was Susan's little rocker in the corner. Susan had grown up to work the needle point on its seat. On the bookcase stood the little music box that Bill had wound so tightly that it had never played again. Inside was a row of Jenny Marie's favorite books. Familiar things reminded her of Walter and Lea. "OH, LITTLE TOWN." She glanced at the high. Ceilings that had sheltered all of them. But there was no one to shelter, now, except Emma. Her family was gone, far away in distant cities, married, settled with families of their own. Their laughter had vanished. There was nothing left. 'This was only an old house. Old like Emma was old. She would be glad to be rid of it. Rid of the pictures it kept painting in her mind. Rid of memories that made the lump in her throat, the tears in her eyes. She flicked them away with a stern finger, mentally scolding herself. "Emma Lorimer! You'd think you were the first person to dispose of an old house. 'There's no reason to be so so drippy!" Another tear disappeared with an angry finger. "You're sixty-eight. You've had a wonderful life. You've always known it couldn't go on, forever." T struck her, that because she had known it so long, she, herself had muted the old house. How long since she had had young folks around her? How long since she had smiled and laughed with teenagers? Yet the house was big enough to hold a great many people. If she had looked around, she might have found someone — a girl from the university, an older woman, to share the empty bedrooms. She thought of the work, and shrugged. The apartment offered rest and quiet. She was ready for that, now, at sixty-eight!