[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Relief | Author: Brown]
RELIEF SOCIETY — AN EXTENSION OF THE HOME 815 marriage. When they have homes of their own, they are inclined, when the first difficulty arises, to turn to the divorce court. Where the highway of conjugal happiness is obstructed by roadblocks of criticism, intolerance, selfishness, lack of charity on the part of either spouse, the resulting detour leads to divorce. Children in such homes pay a heavy toll, and they must travel a lonely, confused, dangerous, and often a dead-end road. 'That you women of the Relief Society help families to avoid such disasters is part of your charge. When the opportunity to serve is recognized as a blessing, where thoughtfulness, courtesy, tolerance, kindness, consideration are habitual, where duties become privileges, where virtues are recognized and gratefully mentioned, where faults are minimized or overlooked, where the home is enveloped by love and hallowed by prayer, there is heaven on earth, and there eternal homes are in the making. 'To foster such homes is the most effective part of your service to the Church. When Jesus said: "What God hath joined together, let not man put asunder' (Mt. 19:6), he referred not only to the final sundering of the divorce court, but, by implication, to those little termites, those acts or omissions which undermine the home and _ gradually destroy it. Breaking up the home doesn't come all at once; it is a gradual process. Every broken home weakens the superstructure of the Church, for the homes of the people are the framework of the Church. Men may build houses, but women must breathe into them the spirit which transforms them into homes. When God created man and woman and called the woman a helpmate, which means a companion, her status was established, and in this dispensation it has been revealed anew, that no person, man or woman, can attain the highest degree of the celestial kingdom without a companion. ALVATION then is a joint and progressive undertaking. Jointly earned, the blessings will be equally shared. While the ordinances of the temple are distinctly of Priesthood character, still worthy women have access to all of them. The highest blessings of the temple are conferred only upon man and wife together. The Lord endowed you women with many gifts and graces, capacities and capabilities, of a quality that he did not grant to men, and these will strengthen the partnership, as they minister to and increase the intellectual and spiritual stamina of men. He gave you such qualities of mind and _ spirit as patience, endurance, love, loyalty, devotion, in greater measure than is usually found in men. The Lord's special bequests and endowments to men and women separately can only be fully realized when they are combined, added upon, and enjoyed jointly. The gifts and graces of each must supplement and complement the other, if they are to be fully realized. The Prophet Joseph Smith in 1842, and reference has already been made to his organizing the Relief Society, said to those women who were before him: You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of 816 those appointed to lead, guide and direct. In this last dispensation; and I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and the needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 16; D. H. C. IV, 603). That responsibility for teaching the gospel is to be shared by men and women is evidenced by the 68th Section of 'The Doctrine and Covenants, wherein we are told that "... Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion... That teach them not " the gospel (you remember the quotation) " the sin be upon the heads of the parents" (D & C 68:25). But the other side of that is, if we teach as we should, jointly in the homes, then we will be entitled to all the blessings that come to those who are instrumental in bringing souls unto him. They who attain the highest glory in the celestial kingdom must enter into this order of the Priesthood, meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage. From the beginning, the Lord arranged for a division of responsibility, not only in the family, but in the Church. The eminent position of women in the work and purposes of the Lord is recognized wherever there is a Relief Society organization, whether it be the smallest branch, the largest stake, or the General Board. More than twenty years ago, President McKay emphasized the sacred responsibility of motherhood, and I quote him: Womanhood should be intelligent and pure because it is the living life-fountain RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1961 from which flows the stream of humanity. She who would pollute that stream by tobacco, poisonous drugs, or by germs that would shackle the unborn, is untrue to her sex and an enemy to the strength and perpetuity of the race (Gospel Ideals, page 449). ND again President McKay points to the pre-eminence of motherhood over any other activity as note the following: This ability and willingness properly to rear children, the gift of love, and eagerness, yes, longing to express it in soul development, make motherhood _ the noblest office or calling in the world. She who can paint a masterpiece or write a book that will influence millions deserves the admiration and the plaudits of mankind; but she who rears successfully a family of healthy, beautiful sons and daughters, whose influence will be felt through generations to come, whose immortal souls will exert an influence throughout the ages long after paintings shall have faded, and books and statues shall have decayed or shall have been destroyed, deserves the highest honor that man can give, and the choicest blessings of God. In her high duty and service to humanity, endowing with immortality eternal spirits, she is co-partner with the Creator himself (The Relief Society Magazine, Vol. 23, January 1936, page 6; Gospel Ideals, page 453). Motherhood is the one thing in all the world which most truly exemplifies the God-given virtues of creating and sactificing. Though it carries the woman close to the brink of death, motherhood also leads her into the very realm of the fountains of life and makes her co-partner with the Creator in bestowing upon eternal spirits mortal life. Artists may make new visions real; poets express thoughts never known before or dress old ones in a more becoming garb; engineers may transform deserts into bounteous fields and fill them with prosperous towns and thriving villages; scientists may discover new elements and by various combinations thereof create means contributive either to progress or destruction — all these are in a measure trevealers of unknown things; but the RELIEF SOCIETY — AN EXTENSION OF THE HOME mother who, in compliance with eternal law, brings into the world an immortal spirit occupies first rank in the realm of creation (Gospel Ideals, page 456). Throughout the history of the Church, the Priesthood has honored womanhood, and we appreciate the wonderful service you render to the Church. We know you will be worthy of your transcendent calling. We want you to look up and listen and believe and make the blessings of Relief Society available to women everywhere. You will not be satisfied until every woman in the Church is engaged in Relief Society work. Some misguided men and nations today — and here I am going to depart from what I was going to say and speak extemporaneously. 'These men who are building walls, physical and mental walls, which divide people, cities, and nations are emissaries of the adversary. We call upon the Relief Society and all. Members of the Church to continue to build bridges which unite individual hearts, unite people, groups, and nations and thereby help to establish universal peace. As we meet here today in Relief Society Conference, there is peace and beauty all around us, but we are keenly conscious of the dangers which beset our divided and imperiled world. Nineteen sixty-one and two may go down in history as the most crucial years of all times, but, despite the daily dirges of the press, we shall not leave this session in a mood of fearful apprehension. I read from the writings of a great woman on that. She said, "The gloom of the world is but a shadow; behind it, yet within our reach, is joy. There is radiance and glory in 817 the darkness, could we but see, and to see we have only to look." We beseech you to look. While we know that all is not well in the world, we bring a message to offset what I said about the awful conditions that confront us, a message from the Priesthood to the Church: While all is not well in the world, we testify that God is still in heaven, that Christ will defeat anti-Christ, that the millennium will be ushered in, that Satan will be bound, and there will be a new heaven and a new earth, and you are to join with us in helping to build that new world and prepare for the second coming of the Lord. You are the harbingers and builders of a new and better world. We challenge you to catch the vision of your exalted callings. Accept the obligation, rise to its privileges and blessings. We recognize the Relief Society as a most important arm of the Church. And now, sisters, part of the duties resting upon some members of the Priesthood today has to do with bearing testimony. There never was a time when conviction and dedication were more needed than now. We need men to match our message, men who have the testimony that makes it possible for them to be witnesses of Christ, to stand before the people and testify of him, and women to inspire them. In humility, but with the same authority that enabled Peter to say in answer to the question of Christ, "Whom do men say that I am?" and from the same source of inspiration, I declare to you, my beloved sisters, and to him, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God" (Mt. 16:16). 818 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1961 OME years ago in England, Sister for it is in harmony with what I Brown wrote a poem. I hope have been trying to say. She titled I will not be thought indelicate if it "Woman Exalted." I bring you some parts of that poem, Ye chosen ones... List to his word:— "Man is not without woman in the Lord," -Think ye then that Gods are half-Gods, not whole, And reign, and make these orbs of light, and live incomplete, alone, And in celestial might make harmony with harps half-strung? The answer's thine already. 'Thou hast it in thy heart. "Twas Mary knew from angel bright that she was Chosen to clothe the Spirit of our Lord. Her heart Sang its exquisite joy! Told she this to the other Honored of the Lord: And found believing response from this Her woman kin. Followers of our Savior and his church were women not a few. How great their love, how complete their trust in him! EF'en when the cross the Son and Master bore, and lifted, tortured, Broke the chains that bound the mortal man and had bade him sleep forever. How great I say, in that trusting humility like unto a child's, how supreme! Last at the cross were they — first at the tomb — heralds of the Risen Lord! "Not honored," say you, and "below your brother man?" Open thine eyes and see what place is given thee, O woman fair! Hold high thy head to wear its crown. Kneel thou, too, in Reverence to thy Lord. For thank offering remember thou his word — - "O be ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord." Prepare thy souls to bear the souls of men. When the spirits of the dark shall stalk the earth to stay his second coming's time, Fear not to array thyself in armor white, as symbol of thy state And arise in power and womanhood.

At the portal of thy home Guard that which is dearer than life itself. By thy companion's side Uphold him in his priesthood and godly power. Remember thou art high priestess of the home — the home, The heart of all the world, and the altar at his throne, The heart whose throbbing life holds in its power, the molding of good or ill. And sends forth the sinner or the saint, or weak ones "tween the two. Sends the mortal-clad spirit, born of woman, to sow discord, hate, and greed. Or be messengers of light, who seek to guide their fellows Back to him where only harmonies abide. O be ye strong, and let not the weak ones grope and find him not. Be thou a woman whole and pure, with that militant love That fights for her own, and God's, RELIEF SOCIETY — AN EXTENSION OF THE HOME 819 Take then thy seat in nations great and small. Still not thy voice wheu its clarion call should speak for him 'To thy sisterhood the world around, Thou champions of righteousness, thou mothers of his little ones, Thou believers of his Word. Lend to his priesthood Thy powers of purity and love that falter not. And that faith that makes their faith more strong. Daughters of Zion, ye mothers of men, hold fast these gifts of thy calling great, Lest they be lost — these priceless pearls of purity and purpose holy. Know ye not that thy place is at the side, and not below, This companion to whom thou art given of the Lord? Thou woman exalted, thou first to forgive and last to forsake, Thou priestess queen, Thank thy God who made thee thus, that thou wast born A Woman. I leave my blessings upon you, my dear sisters, by the authority I have to bless. O God, bless these mothers of Israel with peace in their hearts. May peace and love and harmony reign in their homes. May they be stalwart as they stand beside their husbands, may they and their husbands and children be guided back to thee. I leave this blessing with you, my dear sisters, with my testimony as to the divinity of this work, and I do it humbly in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. A Prayer for Christmas Margaret B. Shoemaker Dear Lord, look down upon the earth tonight. The calendar says "Seasons Greetings." y Candles Are gleaming, trees hold trinkets loved and bright; We hang up holly wreaths and mistletoe and handle Our gifts with care to celebrate your birth; A chalk-white moon pours silver on the snow. The clear bells toll, and children beam with mirth, While old men tell that tale of long ago. Judge not this tinseled brilliance mockery Against thy name, but deem it mortals' cry For peace and faith; for we wear heavily Life's weary crown of thorns. O Lord, we try So hard to live our love for thee. Please, then, Lead us like children to the star, Amen.