[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 22 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: King]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME What Is Christmas? Agetha King]
physical  features.  The  title  implies 
a  degree  of  economic  ability.  This 
ability  contributes  to  the  failure  or 
success  of  the  financial  structure  of 
the  home.  Mother  should  know  how 
to  get  the  maximum  return  for  every

358  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER    1961 
dollar  spent.     Such  physical  needs  mother  are  responsible,  but  mother 
as   food,   clothing,   heat   and   light,  will  have  to  assume  the  role  of  the 
furnishings,     comforts,     and     each  starter.     She  has  the  management 
child's  necessities  for  school,  recrca-  of  the  home  and,  in  order  for  her 
tion,   and   the   unending  miscellan-  planning  to  be  effective,  she  must 
eous  list  must  be  supplied  without  allow  for  the  necessary  time  to  carry 
over-spending  the  part  of  the  family  out  her  plans. 
income  allotted   for  the  home  ex-  Possibly  the  most  significant  tan- 
penses.     In      other  words,  mother  gible  feature  responsible  for  happi- 
should  be  a  financial  wizard,  to  ful-  ness   in   the  home   is   the   physical 
fill  her  economic  role.     She  should  presence  of  mother.     Both  parents 
seriously    study    the    problem    and  are  vital  to  a  successful,  happy  home 
become  proficient  in  the  wise  use  life.     But  the  fact  that  mother  is 
and  handling  of  money.    More  un-  there  to  say  goodbye  when  the  chil- 
happiness    occurs    in    the    average  dren  leave  for  work,  school,  or  play, 
home  over  money  matters  than  over  and  that  she  is  ready  and  waiting 
almost    any   other   single    problem,  with  good  food  and  a  demonstration 
The  economic  security  and  success  of  her  love  in  word  and  deed  when 
of  the  average  family  are  dependent  they  come  home  at  noon  or  night, 
in  large  measure  upon  the  efficient  makes  mother  the  pillar  the  children 
planning  and  organizational  ability  tie  to  from  birth  throughout  their 
of  the  mother.  lifetime.    Of  course,  the  more  father 
The  effectiveness  of  the  home  is  participates  in  the  activities  of  the 
expressed     in     its     smooth-running  home  the  more  he  becomes  a  part 
operation.    There  are  homes  where  of    this    anchorage    of    the    family 
everything  seems  just  a  little  behind,  members  to  the  home, 
where  the  family  just  does  not  catch  Recentlv    the    following    figures 
up  with  things.    The  clock  is  always  were  released  about  married  women 
just  one  step  ahead  of  their  readi-  gainfully  employed.     Women  who 
ness.     In  a  case  like  this,  someone  work  out  of  the  home  cannot  give 
must  establish  a  pattern  that  will  the  needed  amount  of  their  personal 
facilitate  the  activities  in  the  home,  attention  to  the  developing  children. 
They  may  begin  with  a  proper  hour  In  the  vear   1900  there  was  about 
to   retire,   so   that  a  new   day   can  one    in    eighteen    married    women 
begin  on  time  after  a  good  night's  gainfully  employed.     By   1930  this 
rest.    The  hour  of  rising  must  be  so  had  changed  to  one  in  nine.     By 
arranged  that  there  is  time  for  the  1940  it  had  changed  to  one  in  seven, 
necessary  preparations.  It  takes  time  By  1957  wi\'es  eighteen  years  or  old- 
to  prepare  the  family  for  the  day's  er,  living  with  their  husbands,  had 
activities.     There    should   be   time  reached  to  almost  one  in  three  gain- 
for  the  family  to  kneel   in   prayer,  fully  employed.  One  in  two  married 
There  should  be  time  for  the  morn-  women  is  a  wage  earner  during  the 
ing  meal,  properly  served.  To  estab-  first  year  of  marriage,  while  one  in 
lish  this  facility  requires  a  co-opera-  five  is  a  wage  earner  after  five  years 
tive  action  from  parents  particularly,  of  marriage. 
hut  from  all  members,  as  well,  if  it  There    are    many    reasons    given 
is    to    succeed.     Both    father    and  whv  mothers  work.     The  working

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
859 
mother  cannot  be  phvsicallv  present 
with  her  famih-  enough  of  the  time 
during  their  waking  hours.  The  re- 
sults we  do  know  are  not  for  the 
best  good  of  the  family.  One  im- 
portant cause  of  delinquency  is  the 
absence  of  mother  from  the  home. 
2.  Mother's  Role  Includes  an 
Intangible  Strength 
and  Influence. 
These  radiate  from  her  personality 
as  the  warming  rays  of  the  sun  — 
generally  taken  for  granted,  fre- 
quently unnoticed,  and  often  unap- 
preciated, but  ahvays  there. 
One  is  reminded  that  a  tiny  baby, 
unhappy  in  the  arms  of  anyone  else, 
is  comforted  in  the  arms  of  its 
mother.  The  child  \\'ith  an  injured 
finger  is  relieyed  of  the  suffering  by 
mother's  kiss,  and  goes  about  his 
play.  If  mother's  place  is  estab- 
lished on  the  basis  of  being  always 
available  with  sympathetic  under- 
standing, the  child  will  seek  her  in 
time  of  his  need. 
Mother  is  not  only  a  comforter 
but  a  counselor  and,  more  impor- 
tant, an  ideal.  A  child's  preference 
for  a  counselor  in  seeking  adyice  and 
direction  in  life  should  always  be 
his  own  parents.  This  will  be  the 
case  if  parents  haye  de\eloped  a  con- 
fidence and  an  assurance  in  their 
children  by  wise  and  judicious  as- 
sociation with  them  from  babyhood. 
Mother  being  more  available  natural- 
ly becomes  the  first  contact  when 
problems  arise.  This  favored  re- 
lationship should  be  shared  with  and 
evaluated  by  the  father  to  insure  the 
confidence  and  understanding  of  all 
concerned  and  to  keep  balance  in 
the  family  unit.  Counseling  to- 
gether is  a  safe  method  and,  through 
it,  dangerous  and  hasty  decisions  are 
often  avoided. 
Mother's  great  strength  lies  in  her 
living  representation  to  her  children 
of  the  ideals,  values,  and  moral 
standards  she  wants  them  to  acquire. 
There  can  be  no  deviation  in  her 
own  life  from  the  teachings  she  gives 
to  the  children.  The  Savior  im- 
pressed all  who  knew  him  with  the 
fact  that  what  he  taught  he  prac- 
ticed as  his  way  of  life.  Children 
are  constantly  in  strategic  positions 
for  observation  of  their  parents.  Of- 
ten mothers  who  have  not  had  the 
support  of  fathers  in  regard  to  ideals 
and  standards,  have  been  able  to 
establish  fine  idealism  and  excellent 
patterns  of  behavior  in  their  chil- 
dren because  mothers  were  true  to 
the  teachings  they  ga\e  their  chil- 
dren. There  is  no  one  way  to  teach 
love,  respect,  patience,  self-control, 
loyalty,  humility,  and  all  the  other 
fine  and  desirable  traits.  Each  moth- 
er, with  sincerity  and  humility,  will 
teach  out  of  the  richness  of  her 
experience,  using  the  helpful  things 
that  man  has  learned  through  his 
generations  of  research  and  experi- 
ence, and  calling  upon  the  revealed 
mind  and  will  of  God  to  set  her 
standards  and  values  straight. 
We  are  always  impressed  by  the 
statements  of  people  of  greatness 
when  they  refer  to  their  mothers  as 
their  ideals  and  source  of  inspira- 
tion. They  often  attribute  their 
success  to  their  mothers.  This  is 
credit  justly  given.  It  should  be 
more  commonly  expressed  than  it 
is.  What  a  vital  place  and  position 
of  influence  mother  holds!  Surely 
there  is  no  substitute  for  her  and 
no  way  of  her  avoiding  the  responsi- 
bilities of  motherhood.

860 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER    1961 
Christmas  Music 
for  Three  Part 
Womens 
Choruses
