[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Thorpe | Author: Richards]
[Thorpe B. Isaacson Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve LeGrand Richards]
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
Appointed  Assistant  to  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve 
Elder  LeGrand  Richards 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Tweh  e 
Boyart  Studio 
THORPE  B.   ISAACSON 
WHEN  Elder  Thorpe  B. 
Isaacson  was  sustained  in 
the  General  Conference  of 
the  Church  on  Saturday,  September 
30,  1961,  as  an  Assistant  to  the 
Quorum  of  the  Twehe  Apostles, 
his  friends  from  far  and  near  who 
appreciate  his  faith  and  his  ability 
were  very  pleased. 
One  of  our  Articles  of  Faith  reads: 
''W^e  believe  that  a  man  must  be 
called  of  God,  by  prophecy  .  .  .  ." 
We  are  sure  that  Elder  Isaacson 
was  so  called. 
When  Bishop  Marvin  O.  Ash  ton 
passed  away  fifteen  years  ago,  I  was 
pri\ileged,  as  the  Presiding  Bishop, 
to  choose  a  counselor  to  take  his 
place.    I  selected  Elder  Isaacson  be- 
cause I  thought  his  heart  was  right 
before  the  Lord  and  his  fellow  men. 
He  was  then  serving  in  the  bishop- 
ric in  mv  ^^•a^d.  Mv  familv  and  I 
were  very  fa\orablv  impressed  with 
him.  When  I  mentioned  his  name 
to  President  George  Albert  Smith, 
also  a  member  of  our  ward,  he 
heartily  appro\ed  my  recommenda- 
tion. 
When  President  Smith  asked 
him  if  he  would  be  willing  to  serve 
as  my  counselor,  he  responded  in 
the  affirmati\e  and  asked  if  he 
might  take  the  matter  up  with  the 
officers  of  the  insurance  company, 
for  which  he  had  been  general 
agent  for  many  years.  He  wanted  to 
see  whether  they  would  permit  him 
to  retain  his  agency  and  appoint  a 
manager  to  insure  him  against  the 
loss  of  his  continuing  income.  He 
stated  that  if  his  company  would 
not  grant  him  this  request,  he  would 
tell  them  to  take  the  business. 
Another  experience  that  im- 
pressed me  with  the  sincerity  of  his 
heart  was  during  the  sickness  of  his 
son  Richard,  who  had  been  strick- 
en with  polio.  Elder  and  Sister 
Isaacson  came  to  the  office  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  and  asked  us  to 
kneel  with  them  in  prayer  for  their 
son  who  was  in  an  iron  lung  in  the 
hospital.  Elder  Isaacson  promised 
that  if  the  Lord  would  spare  his  son, 
Page  805

806 
RELIEF   SOCIETY   MAGAZINE— DECEMBER    1961 
Boyart   Studio 
ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON  AND  HIS  FAMILY 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  Peter  Isaacson  (son  of  Richard  A.  Isaacson  and  Gayle 
Olsen  Isaacson);  Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson;  Judith  Isaacson;  Liila  Jones  Isaacson  (wife 
of  Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson);  Rebecca  Tribe. 
Back  row,  left  to  ri^ht:  Richard  A.  Isaacson  and  his  wife  Gayle  Olsen  Isaacson; 
Royal  L.  Tribe  and  his  ^^•ife  Joyce  Isaacson  Tribe;  Royal  L.  Tribe  III. 
he  would  do  anything  he  was  asked 
to  do.  The  Lord  spared  his  son, 
and  shortly  thereafter  he  was  called 
as  a  counselor  in  the  Presiding 
Bishopric. 
Elder  Isaacson  has  great  faith  in 
the  power  of  prayer.  He  comes 
from  sturdy  Scandinavian  parentage 
on  both  his  father's  and  mother's 
ancestral  lines.  He  tells  of  his 
grandfather  who  used  to  pray  over 
the  sacks  of  wheat  he  planted  in  his 
field  to  insure  an  ample  harvest. 
He  is  very  considerate  of  those  in 
trouble.  He  writes  more  personal 
letters  of  encouragement  than  any 
man  it  has  been  my  privilege  to 
know.  When  I  was  sick  with  a 
heart  attack  in  Idaho,  he  was  then 
serving  in  the  ward  bishopric.  He 
\^  as  the  first  one  to  send  me  a  com- 
forting letter.  When  he  was  sus- 
tained   as    my    counselor    in    the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  his  first  request 
was  that  his  assignment  might  be 
with  the  senior  members  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  and  the  men 
who  held  no  Priesthood.  He  has 
had  a  wonderful  influence  upon  the 
lives  of  manv  of  these  men.  Some 
of  them,  even  men  of  prominence, 
have  been  brought  into  activity  in 
the  Church  through  his  influence 
and  efforts. 
He  is  verv  sensitive  and  has  tender 
feelings.  ^Vhenever  he  learns  that 
he  has  offended  someone  or  that 
someone  has  aught  against  him,  he 
does  not  permit  time  to  pass  until 
he  attempts  to  rectify  any  such 
offenses  or  ill  feelings. 
He  has  a  deep  love  for  the  Proph- 
et of  the  Lord,  President  David  O. 
McKav. 
His  wife,  Lula  Maughan  Jones,  is 
a  faithful,  capable  Latter-day  Saint,

THORPE  B.  ISAACSON  APPOINTED  TO  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE                      807 
and  a  real  support  to  her  husband,  much  greater  opportunity  for  par- 
They  have  had  three  children,  two  ticipation  in  the  spiritual  affairs  of 
still  living,  Mrs.  Joyce  I.  Tribe,  and  the   Church.      I    am    sure   he   will 
their  son,  Richard  Alonzo.  prove  to  be  a  great  blessing  to  the 
In  this  new  call  that  has  come  to  saints  and  an  effective  Assistant  to 
him,    Elder    Isaacson    will    have   a  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
vi/hat  0/5   (whilst mas? 
Agetha  King 
CHRISTMAS.  .  .  .  what  is  Christmas?     If  I  were  to  ask  each  one  of  you  personally 
the  question  "What  is  Christmas?"  I  feel  certain  that  I  would  receive  a  different 
answer  from  each  one  of  you.     For  Christmas  means  something  different  to  each  of  us. 
Christmas  is  for  children.  And  children  are  just  as  capable  as  adults  of  enjoying 
the  true  meaning  of  Christmas.  They  love  the  thought  of  Baby  Jesus  and  the  shep- 
herds. They  will  almost  always  choose  to  sing  "Silent  Night,  Holy  Night"  before  they 
sing  "Santa  Claus  Is  Coming  to  Town."  I  do  not  believe  that  children  put  Santa  Claus 
before  Jesus  at  Christmas.  They  love  the  story  of  Jesus  too  much  to  put  anything  or 
anyone  before  it.  And  Santa  Claus  has  one  major  trait  in  common  with  Christ;  he 
gives  because  he  loves.  And  this  is  the  spirit  and  feeling  that  should  permeate  the 
whole  of  Christmas.     The  spirit  and  feeling  of  love. 
Just  what  do  I  want  my  children  to  remember  about  their  childhood  Christmases? 
If  you  were  making  a  list,  what  would  you  include  in  making  up  vour  children's  mem- 
ories of  Christmas? 
I  want  mv  children  to  remember,  first  of  all,  the  true  meaning  of  Christmas,  and  all 
the  love  that  goes  along  with  it. 
The  arranging  of  the  nativity  scene  and  placing  it  in  a  prominent  spot  as  a  gentle 
reminder  of  the  true  meaning. 
The  singing  of  carols  spontaneously  or  in  planned  groups  about  a  cheerfully  lighted 
tree. 
Reading  together  in  a  family  group  the  gospel  account  of  the  hoh"  birth,  and  other 
wonderful  Christmas  stories,  such  as  "Why  the  Chimes  Rang." 
Then  I  also  want  them  to  remember  the  special  trip  each  vear  to  \isit  Santa  and 
the  whispered  list  of  greath'  desired  gifts. 
The  trip  the  whole  family  makes  to  choose  the  "just  right"  Christmas  tree. 
The  search  through  the  record  cabinet  for  all  axailablc  Christinas  music,  to  be 
played  over  and  over  all  through  the  season. 
The  special  baking  of  endless  cookies,  the  making  of  cand}'  and  cakes  to  be  en- 
joyed by  everyone  who  may  happen  by.