The day before Christmas, David was there as usual and discussed in his serious way the coming of Santa Claus and his hopes for the big day. "Do you hang up your stocking, Aunt Amy?" "No, David,' she said seriously enough though Jed was nearly convulsed with mirth. "Let him go," he RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE "I don't see why not. I'm sure Santa would bring you something." Jed started to reply but Amy interposed, "I tell you what I think would be fun, David. Ill let you have a stocking that I used to use when I was a little girl and you can hang it over here. Maybe that will start Santa Claus coming our way." « he delved into an old trunk and at length produced a white cotton stocking decorated with red bands and lots of tiny tinkling bells. The boy clapped his hands in delight. "Goody, Goody, Goody. Where'll I hang it?" After much deliberation he selected a place and with great ceremony and much seriousness fastened it up. The next morning he gave his magnificent tree and expensive presents only a passing glance and hastened to Tremaine's for his surprise stocking. The cheap little toys, purchased from the town general store were more than ample to satisfy him. Amy and Jed laughed as they hadn't laughed for years at the funny remarks and eager enthusiasm of the boy. When he had to leave at last he left the stocking with Amy. "You keep it here, Aunt Amy, and I'll come every Christmas eve to hang it up." And so he had. Vee after year Amy watched him. Saw him grow from babyhood to boyhood, from boyhood to youth. Every summer he spent sometime at the Poplars and always he and his Dad came out for Christmas. "It wouldn't be Christmas without my stocking," he told her once. When he was ten his stocking held a box of crayons and a rude set © of drawing cards. He discarded the cards and on an old notebook HER CHRISTMAS GIFT made some really clever sketches. Amy marveled at them—David laughed, "They're nothing," he said, "T can draw lots better than that. I'll show you my book sometime. It's got all my best drawings in it." Two years later Amy gave David the best water colors she could buy. The boy was delighted. "Aunt Amy, you darling. How do you always manage to get just the thing I want? You must be thinking about me all the time. I'd rather have these than anything I know—and such beauties too. Gee you're good to me." "It's because I love you so much, David." -Amy's voice was low and sweet and the boy glancing up saw that her eyes were filled with tears. He took her rough hand awkwardly, "I love you, too, Aunt Amy. You can always bank on me." It was the only time affection was ever mentioned between them but Amy knew the boy's love for her was deep, true and lasting—as for her— the very thought of him brought a sob to her throat. She could not have cared more for him had he been her own. Occasionally after that he sent her sketches and during his summers at home they spent long hours together. She tramped the woods with him seeing beauty where she had never guessed it to be before, stopping to gaze at a sunset sky until the beautiful colors merged into a dull gray, exclaiming, over the grace and symmetry of a tree, spending hours just looking and seeming to inhale the beauty around: her. Sometimes she took a book and read while David sketched; at other times she was content just to sit near him and watch him as he worked. AIlways he asked her opinion before he completed a picture: Once she said to him, "The back- - ground is beautiful. David. It looks as natural as life. I can almost hear 641 the wind in those trees. But your animals—all of your animals are terrible. You haven't the right perspective or whatever you call it have you? Now if you notice Landseer's dogs—" "Landseer,' David interrupted, "Aunt Amy, what in the world do you know about Landseer?" "Not much," Amy admitted, "And I don't know a great deal about art, either, David, but if you take my advice you'll stick to landscape. Some of your sketches are very fine. I have high hopes for you." "Oh Aunt Amy I have for myself, too. No one but you knows I even try to paint and no one is going to know either until I do something that is really good. Then I'll burst into fame over night—the boy wonder—the child Rembrandt, or Murillo or even Landseer, maybe, who knows. You're going to be proud of me someday." David laughed and Amy pleased with his boyish exuberance laughed too, "That will be to make others proud of you, David. I am proud of you right now and have been ever since the first time I ever saw " you. Ay TER Jed died Amy spent all her leisure time preparing for and looking forward to her visits with David. She read everything she could find on art, even took a correspondence course in art appreciation that she might better assist him in his work. David's joy and his pleased astonishment at some of her criticisms and suggestions more than repaid her for her effort. One Christmas he came dashing over, hardly entering the house before he exclaimed, "It's wonderful, Aunt Amy, couldn't have turned out better," and before the amazed Amy could question him, "I told Dad all 642 about it, my painting, you know— he's some sport—I thought he'd be mad or at least disappointed but he wasn't, not a bit—said I could have the Poplars for my own, he'd settle enough on me for a comfortable living and maybe if I finish school this spring, I can have a year abroad. I'm going to fix that big south room upstairs into a studio and—" the boy stopped, breathless, and turned to the woman standing very still beside him—'My land, Aunt Amy, you're not going to cry are you? Why don't you shout or sing or dance? Aren't you glad?" "Oh David, boy," she answered tremulously, "I'm too glad to do any of those things. I'm too glad for even words." But the plan never. Materialized because David had gone to a New Year's party in town and had met and after a whirlwind courtship, married Marcia Day. He left school and brought Marcia to the Poplars and Amy, going over two days after they arrived was surprised to find their 'boxes still unpacked and Marcia repacking a trunk. "Why David," she said, "You're not going back already?" "T''ll say we are." It was Marcia who answered, "If I have to stay one more day in this God forsaken dump I'll go mad." "It is kind of quiet here," David admitted, "Not like Marcia's used to," he told Amy and to Marcia, "You'll like it better in the spring, dear." "Like it?—I'll say I won't. I never hated a place so much in my life and if you think, David Worthen, that you'll get me here in the spring or summer or any other time for that matter you're mightily mistaken." She banged the trunk top down and sat on it to hold it there, "Hurry and fasten it. That -least for the summers. 'RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE man said he'd be here for the things at four." "But David,' Amy protested, it was all so sudden, so upsetting, "What about your art?" The moment she said it she regretted it. David's art was sacred to her. "Art? Pooh," Marcia jumped up and flung herself out of the room. David shrugged, "See how it is, Aunt Amy?" he smiled and then sobered instantly and led Amy to a couch seating himself beside her with one of her hard worn hands held closely in both of his long graceful white ones. "I just adore Marcia—she's a wonderful girl, Aunt Amy when you really know her. She isn't used to so much quiet and solitude and it sort of got on her nerves right now. She's lots different usually. And isn't she pretty? I could be hanny forever just looking at her. The money Dad settled on me won't begin to keep us in town so Marcia's father has offered me a most acceptable position in his bank, mighty decent of him, we're going to take a little apartment and just enjoy life and each other. It's what Marcia wants so I want it too." "But boy—" David interrupted, "I know, you think I'm giving up all my dreams and ideals and all that, Aunt Amy, but I'm not. Marcia exceeds my fondest dream right now and always will but I don't intend to quit painting; for a while, maybe, just till we get adjusted to the new order of things; then I'm going to dabble at it a little in my leisure time and when Marcia gets tired of playing around, she will you know, before long, we'll come out here again, at Doesn't that sound all right?" "Tt sounds just fine, David, and HER CHRISTMAS GIFT I'm so happy for you and so glad you found a lovely girl like Marcia. There is nothing more wonderful than young people in love starting out life together." Amy rose to go and David took the brown leathery face in his hands and-bent to kiss the thin pale lips, "I knew you'd understand. You always do. We will be back soon. Goodbye—" "Godbye, David. Tell Marcia to take care of you. I'll be expecting you about summertime,' and Amy hurried down the walk to the haven of her own closed doors before the storm she was having such difficulty to stem should break. X ok x ape roaring fire had burned to embers then to a soft white ash. Winter chill had crept into the room, the light sputtered occasionally as if protesting overwork, a yellow crust of grease had formed over the untouched soup. The woman did not stir. There was no sound in the room but the faithful ticking of the old clock.. Some one tramped on. To the porch and knocked loudly at the door. Still the figure in the chair remained motionless. The door opened to admit a man covered with snow, one arm laden with bundles the other dragging a heavy suitcase. "Aunt Amy, you old darling. You have never failed me yet. Imagine sitting up for me till this time of night." The man dropped his suitcase, laid his bundles down carefully and ran to the side of the sleeping woman. She sat up with a start. "David," she cried, you're a dream?" "T certainly am not," he denied vigorously, "I'm very much here, very much frozen to death and so hungry I could eat a farm." "Oh David, boy, I've been want- "David, bundle to Amy. 643 ing you so terribly." She rose trembling and put her hands on his shoulders. He put his arms around her and held her close. 'I'm covered with snow but you don't care, do you? I knew you would want us Aunt Amy and we didn't have any place to go but to you. Will you keep us?" "Us? David." She looked around him around the room then back into his smiling eyes. He loosened his arms and going to the chair brought a warm little "My traveling companion," he said, "we've been stalled for six hours and she is the best little sport you ever saw." "A baby, David? A baby?' Amy's shaking hands were trying to undo the multiple coverings. "Let me show you," David tore the blankets back. "No, cover her up till I get a fire. Here give her to me. Oh, David, isn't she lovely?' Amy took the precious little thing in her arms and held her close to her breast to check the sob rising there before she put her back into the chair. In a moment she had the fire burning, the soup set to warm, some preserve and cold milk from the pantry and a chair drawn up to her unused place. David, dropped into her rocker, seemed content to just sit and watch her. At length Amy asked, "What about Marcia?" David hesitated, "I hardly know how to tell you. We just couldn't make it. We tried awfully hard. I guess we aren't suited to each other. I'm exceedingly slow and Marcia— well she craves speed. I hoped the baby would make us both different and unite us. They are supposed to do that aren't they? But it only made matters worse. Marcia was pretty sick and nervous and mad be- 644 RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE cause the baby was coming. She wouldn't even look at it when it arrived. When she did she said she never saw such a homely creature. Just imagine that, Aunt Amy, about her—our—baby."' Imagine it—Amy with the strongest imagination she could muster could not achieve that. "She's gone abroad now," David finished. "Your supper, David," Amy said - gently. David drew his chair to the table. "How festive,' he said, indicating the geranium, "And a real true Christmas cake. You can't make me believe you weren't expecting me tonight. Supper ready, this is delicious soup, and you waiting up and everything. Did you hang my stocking, too?" "You always do that yourself. I'll get it.' Amy glad for an excuse to leave the room busied herself making a bed for David. It couldn't be possible she kept telling herself over and over, it was too good, too wonderful, her heart was fairly bursting with joy. Calmer at length, she brought the stocking back to David. "Ts it true, David," she said, "Are you really going to stay here?' "Tf you are willing," he answered, "T thought we would move to the Poplars. Ill get that Wood's kid, what's her name, Mamie, to do the house work and her Dad to do the chores. You can take care of the baby and me and we'll take care of you." "And Marcia won't came back, ever?" "She is so glad to be rid of us she will never come near. No need to worry about her, Aunt Amy. She intends to marry again as soon as possible.". "Your room is ready, David. I know you are tired. "T'm all in. I'll go now if you don't mind. Lots of Christmas stuff in those packages," he said, indicating them, "But that can wait until tomorrow." He took a peep at the baby, "Isn't she a darling, Aunt Amy? Guess what I named her?"' "Marcia, of course." "Of course not. She has the finest name in the world for the finest person—Amy." "David you didn't? It doesn't seem possible that I could be so Go to bed now before I cry. He took her face in both his hands and bending down kissed her tenderly, "Good night you dear, good, sweet Aunt Amy. Cry if you want to and take care of your namesake. The house now quiet Amy fixed the fire again, cleared the table, removed some of the coverings from the baby, filled the bottle with fresh milk and set it in warm water to have it ready and wiped up the snow and water brought in by David. Her spirits were so light she seemed to be dancing. Every minute or two she took a peep at the sleeping baby humming and singing to herself, wanting to shout her joy. At length the baby stirred, uttered a faint little cry. Immediately Amy was at her side. She picked her up tenderly and drawing the old chair close to the fire undid the manifold wrappings. "You can easily see a man has been tending this child," she said as she made her comfortable and gave her the warm satisfying bottle. Light appeared in the east. Amy put the lamp out and sat with the baby in her arms waiting for the day—Christmas morning. She looked down at the warm, beautiful body, hers to keep and to care for and to love. "Dear God," she said softly, "Thank you for giving me the only thing I ever really wanted."