12 EDITORIAL "Our Joyfullest Feast" "Our Joyfullest Feast." Christ's coming was looked forward to with joy, his advent was heralded by angelic shouts of joy and ever since, at each recurrent anniversary of his birth, carols are 'heard, bells peal forth their joyous message, while pulpit and press again joyously tell of the coming of the Bethlehem Babe. From north to south and from east to west all over the globe are found men and women who bow in reverent devo- _tion and with joy acclaim their faith in Christ the Lord. Many people lose the joy of Christmas by making it a time to be dreaded because they spend more for Christmas giving than they can afford and overtax their strength. The message of Christmas is one of peace and good will. Christ's W ELL may Christmas be called followers should be careful that they do not make a mockery of his birthday by being dishonest in giving what they cannot afford and by going to such extremes during the holiday time that they are physically, mentally, and spiritually exhausted. Christmas should not be characterized by an orgy of exchanging presents and of worry lest the one given is not as costly as the one received, but by a season of peace and good will and joy, when giver and receiver give and take in joyous remembrance of God's great Christmas gift to the world—his only begotten Son, who came that they who believed on him should not perish but have everlasting life. I' addition to the giving which characterizes the Christmastide we suggest that it would be very fitting to reverently read his life, 686 ponder well over his teachings and see how our lives square with them. It is marvelous how they have suited and been applicable to the lives of those in both the humblest and most exalted stations, and not only to those who lived when they RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE were enunciated, but to those who live in the present century. All through the ages since they were given, Christ's teachings have been as a lamp to the feet and a light to the path, a beacon beckoning to higher place and more abundant life. Evan Stephens [* the death of Evan Stephens there passes from among us one who has rendered signal service to his Church and to the world of music. Twenty-two years before he died, his native land, Wales, recognizing his ability, sent two composers of international reputation, Parry and Prothero, to honor him and authoritatively constitute him "A Bard." His life has been devoted to music, as teacher, composer and director of musical bodies. In his young manhood, thousands of children attended his classes. Those having signal promise he trained individually. Later, the Tabernacle Choir achieved distinction under his able direction. In 1893 he took 250 members of that organization to the World's Fair to compete with choirs from all over the world, and won second prize. More than one judge averred that his singers should have been given first place. He has composed thousands of songs; hymns and anthems being his outstanding contribution. His name will ever be familiar to Latter-day Saints for he has put the gospel spirit and teachings into compositions that will be sung by generations yet to come. He was a tender, sympathetic friend. Many boys have been his especial care, and with fatherly devotion he looked after their training and education, going without things he desired for himself that they might have opportunities. Not only did his artistic soul delight in music, but everything beautiful appealed to him—flowers and trees, babbling brooks and mountain fastnesses, each conveyed messages to his soul and inspired many of his compositions. Quiet and unassuming, he lived his life, devoted to his art. He loved his home and his people, and they in turn honored and loved him. Blessed be his memory.