Expansion of Interest in Terms of Child-Welfare By Jean Cox EEN interest in the welfare of the child has changed the term "Adult Education," by some groups to "Parent Education." In a broad sense this may include all kinds of adult education because what the parents may learn in any field of educational endeavor will react to some extent upon the welfare of the child. The careful intensive work in child study and parent child relationships which is _being carried on in the half dozen outstanding child welfare stations, is representative of the sympathetic concern in the welfare of the child. The present day interest in child welfare is somewhat typical of an experience related of Mrs. Isaac Leah Hillis of Jowa, who was largely instrumental in getting state appropriation for the study of how children grow. While she was working for this, a president of a university suggested to her "That - the women of Iowa might indeed do a worth while service if they put chimes in the tower." Her reply was prophetic. "Mr. President, the women of Iowa are going 'to start chimes ringing which will ring throughout eternity." That was the beginning of one of our best child welfare stations. 110,000 people were represented in the request for an appropriation in 1912, The careful persistent study which has been carried on in the Iowa Child Welfare Station, to increase the number of normal children free from remedial defects has indeed set the chimes ringing in Iowa. Other states can well follow this lead. Ge national child welfare conferences have been called by presidents of the United 'States. President Roosevelt called one in 1901, where two hundred child welfare workers met to consider dependent children. The outstanding recommendation of this conference was that dependent children be not removed from their homes, but that the homes be made acceptable. This is another example of the need for adult education. The second recommendation was, where children necessarily had to be cared for in institutions that the cottage plan be used and that home conditions be approached as nearly as possible. The next big step in child care was the organization of the Children's Bureau. In 1912, in addition to the national conference, regional conferences were called to discuss social economic problems in child welfare. In 1929 the outstanding conference of the year was the White House Conference on child welfare called by 'President Hoover. This marks keen interest in the problem. $500,000 from a private source is being used to determine present and future needs in the care of children. The original committee of twentynine has been expanded to almost one thousand specialists who are making a most careful study of problems such as these: The needs of the child as a member of the family group. What must the child get out of family relationships which will give durable satisfaction? CHILD WELFARE What kinds of play are best suited to develop the child's capacity in joy of living? What is needed in terms of training to help children live together in the most efficient way? The child has a right to proper physical and mental development. When the best is done for the child the potential economic value will be greatly increased. Some members of the committee are making a careful study of the delinquent factors in modern life which defeat agencies already going. One group is trying to determine how much can be expected from the home for nurturing its citizens so that lives may be extended. The vision of the committee makes it possible to place considerable emphasis upon preventative measures against ill health, delinquency, and other undesirable standards. To offset these it stresses the importance of good habits, desirable attitudes, good citizenship, worthy ideals. When the findings of this committee are released, more minds will be thinking together and will have a more definite ideal of a welltrained child having good physical and mental health. While the specialists are trying to make a foundation on which to expand a program on what is best for the children of the United States, they realize that they cannot go higher than the 683 minds of the people. Before many definite or worth while results can be obtained, a period of parent education must ensue which will result in a desire to adapt and make the most of the findings of these specialists. Opportunity to study problems pertaining to child welfare should be eagerly sought for by understanding and thoughtful parents. This will call for a program in parent education for parents and those adults who have children under their direction. It is expected that rapid strides 'will be made in this field of education. AMO any sacrifice should be considered worth while if careful persistent study in child problems will improve not only the physical but mental health of the child. Parent education is one phase of education which makes possible extra returns. In nine cases out of ten when a mother becomes: interested in child training she very soon realizes that she herself needs application of psychological principles in order to make her the kind of a mother her trained child should have. In many cases while the mother would not make the initial sacrifice for herself, she becomes converted to the fact that for better children there must be more intelligent parents. "And a little child shall lead them" scores high in terms of child welfare and parent education.