Guide Lessons for February LESSON I _ Theology and Testimony (First Wlek in February) Book oF MorMON—SAMUEL THE LAMANITE ASSIGN MENT This lesson includes the material in the Book of Helaman, from the beginning of chapter 13 to the end of the seventh chapter of the Book of Third Nephi. The time is between B. C. 6 and A. D. 34—a period when the pendulum swings from good to evil among both Nephites and Lamanites with a swiftness that takes one's breath. If the books are available, the student will find an interesting treatment of the characters involved in the lessons in Reynolds's Dictionary of the Book of Mormon, especially under the names of Samuel, Nephi the son of Nephi, and Laconeous; and in Evans's Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon, chapter twenty-seven. The Story The narrative opens with the preaching of Samuel on the wall surrounding the town of Zarahemla. Samuel is a Lamanite. Having been directed of God to preach to the Nephites there, he scales the wall because the people will not let him in at the gates, and preaches to them from its top in spite of their opposition. His message, which is extremely distasteful to the inhabitants of the town, is one of warning and repentance. He assures them that they are headed for complete destruction, and that it will overtake them unless they mend their ways. Also he tells them of Christ and His work of redemption in Palestine. When Jesus is born across the waters, there will be three days of continuous light here, without any intervening darkness; and, at the time of His death, there will be a period of thirty-six hours of continuous darkness, with convulsions of the elements in the earth and in the sky. X few of his hearers are converted and go to Nephi, who is still ministering, to be baptized. But others try to hurt him with stones and arrows. After finishing his preaching, Samuel disappears from the pages of the Book of Mormon. That happened about six years before the advent of the Savior. The very next year some of the signs which the Lamanite prophet predicted made their appearance, but were disposed of by unbelievers, at least to their own satisfaction, with the "explanation" that they were "guesses." But, when the period of continuous light appeared, there was no such explanation forthcoming, and many were converted through it. On the whole, however, the Nephites were a hardened lot. It was the Lamanites that carried the torch. Once converted, they stayed so. During this period the Gadianton band became a terrible menace to those who wished to preserve the rights and government of the people. To this gang of outlaws went 688 all those who thought they had a grudge against the government. At one time, it seems, this secret organization became so numerous and dangerous, not to say powerful, that all the Nephites and Lamanites were compelled to assemble in one place for self-protection. Under the leadership of Laconeous and Gidgiddoni the order was finally uprooted. Towards the end of the period we are considering the political government of the Nephites became a thing of the past, and the people broke up into tribes, the binding cord in each tribe being kinship. The historian says, however, that there was a general agreement not to interfere with one another and that this rule was strictly ol: served, although the Nephites and most of the Lamanites made no pretense of holding to any religious beliefs. Notes 1. Freedom of the Will: Perhaps nowhere in religious history is the doctrine of free agency made clearer than it is in this lesson. The statement of the doctrine comes from the Lamanite prophet, Samuel. "Ye are free," says the prophet to the Nephites; "ye are permitted to act for yourselves; for, behold, God liath given unto you a knowledge and. He hath made you free." He draws the conclusion, therefore, that whoever is condemned, brings the condemnation upon himself. "Remember, my brethren, that whoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself; and whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself." "God," he continues, "hath given unto you that ye might know good from evil, and He hath given unto you that ye might choose life or death; and ye can do good and be restored unto _his brother. RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE that which is good, or have that which is good restored unto you; or ye can do evil, and have that which is evil restored unto you." «. Lines Wiped Out: Here, for the first time since Lehi's family came to the New World, we find all the Americans of the same color, creed, and nation, although not for long. In the preceding lesson we learned that the Lamanites were converted to the teachings of Nephi and But these hitherto benighted people still retained their copper color. In this lesson, however, we are told that, not only did the Nephites and the Lamanites become one people politically, but that the Lamanites became white like the Nephites. In both lessons the former became the teachers of the latter in religion. Particularly were the Lamanites steadfast in the Church, - once they saw the light. Samuel points out this fact in his sermon on the wall of Zarahemla. "The more part of them," he says, "are in the path of their duty, and they do walk circumspectly before God, and they do observe to keep His commandments and His statutes and His judgments according to the law of Moses.... Therefore as many of them as have come to this, ye know of yourselves are firm and steadfast in the faith, and in the thing wherewith they have been made free.- And ye know also that they have buried their weapons of war, and they fear to take them up lest by any means they should sin. They will suffer themselves that they be trodden down and slain by their enemies, and will not lift their swords against them, and this because of their faith in Christ." 3. A New Nephite War Policy: In this period we observe a deviation on the part of the Nephites in GUIDE LESSONS their policy respecting killing their enemies. It will be recalled that heretofore, whenever there was a war between the Nephites and the Lamanites, the Nephites would never take an enemy's life if they could help it. This seems to have been their invariable policy in war with the Lamanites. In this period, however, Gidgiddoni does not follow that policy in his encounters with the Gadianton robbers. What is the reason? The historian does not give the reason, but we can easily gather it from the spirit of the Book of Mormon and the general practice of the people. It is this: The Lamanites had not been trained in the distinctions so well recognized by the Nephites—the distinctions, namely, between right and wrong from the higher point of view. In more than one place we have had occasion to point this fact out in these lessons. Not so, however, with the Gadianton robbers. They were Nephites. They had been accustomed to the moral and religious distinctions of Nephite life and culture. They knew, therefore, the difference between what they were doing and what they ought to have done. In other words, they were more accountable for their actions than the Lamanites because their knowledge was greater. And so Gidgiddoni is not satisfied to defeat the robber band merely. He shuts the door to their escape when they are overcome in battle. He surrounds them, and orders his men to slay them right and left. Al! Who are not taken prisoners have, on this policy, been put to death—as they richly deServe to be. Moreover, the leader of this outlaw band, which must have numbered tens of thousands, is hanged to a tree, after which the FOR FEBRUARY 689 tree is cut down with no little ceremony and shouting. It is almost. A religious festival, this hanging. The explanation lies, not in the greater desire of the Nephite commander for blood, but in the greater culpability of the enemy on the assumption that they knew what they were doing. This was the end, during that period, of the Gadianton robbers among the ancient Americans. 4, Political Anarchy: At one time during this short period of twentyseven years crime became so prevalent as to tax all the resources of what government there was to put a stop to it. That was toward the end of the period, after the Nephite nation had broken up into tribes. The division of the people was not into Nephites and Lamanites any more, nor into believers and non-believers in Christ, but rather into those who were for law and order, on the one hand, and those who were for organizing a government of tyranny and oppression, on the other hand. And so a fierce struggle ensued for mastery. The usual methods employed by the criminal element were adopted— secret killings and the customary ways of hiding their guilt and avoiding punishment. For instance: Prophets arose to warn the lawless of their evil ways, and these prophets were put to death secretly. The murders, however, were perpetrated by the judges, contrary to the law. And when complaints were lodged against the judicial murderers, their friends and kinsmen} who were very numerous, united with 'almost all the lawyers and the high priests" and entered into "a covenant to combine against all righteousness." The result was, as the book tells us, that they "delivered those who were guilty from the grasp of justice 690 and set at defiance the law and the rights of their country." Questions and Problems 1. How do you account for the superior faithfulness of the Lamanites? 2. How does evil get such a hold as it seems to have had at this time? Discuss the predominance of the criminal element in Chicago and the RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE bribery of judges in New York City, in this connection. 3. Why is it usually more difficult to organize the better element than the criminal? What motive actuates the latter always? How strong is that motive in man? 4. What are some of the problems that confront our American communities today? How may these be best solved, in your opinion? Work and Business LESSON II Work and Business Teachers' Topic for February (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in February ) THE RELIEF SOCIETY AS A SOCIAL OpporTUNITY "Society: is the great educator. More than universities, more than schools, more than books, society educates." —John Dewey. "And do I love to associate with my friends? I do, and I love to reflect and talk on eternal principles."—Brigham Young. 'We receive social development in the Relief Society by— I. Personal Contact with Women. (a) Who have like aims and aspirations. (b) Who have kindred interests. (c) Who have knowledge of the gospel and a love for its principles. (d) Who are seeking self-development. (e) Who have high standards of motherhood and child care. (£) Who are home loving and wish to preserve the standards of the home. II. Participation in the Social Life of the Relief Society at— (a) Meetings. (b) Socials. (c) Bazaars. (d) Plays. (e) Exhibits. ({) Study Groups. (g) Trips. A desire to contribute something to the group, to have a share in its success, brings social development of a high order. III. Visiting Teaching. (a) Meeting women in. Their own homes. 1. Fosters cordial and pleasing attitude. 2. Gives opportunity for exchange of ideas. 3. Develops tact and judgment. (b) Contact with officers as their representatives develops a feeling of sisterhood. (c) Comradeship with teaching companion engenders kindred feeling with all workers. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 691 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February) THE SHorT STorRY IN GREAT BRITAIN, Part II This last period of the English short story can be extended into 1930. It had its beginning in the tales, designed to suit the purposes of the moralists of the 18th and early 19th centuries, but it has now reached a place where there are almost no restrictions of subject matterr, style, or treatment. This decided change began early in the 19th century and was affected by the romantic movement of Wordsworth, Keats, and others. It was a time when England was flooded by French ideas (The revolution and Napoleon had given England more to think about than morals and manners). Novelists, who had been inspired by Addison, Swift. And Defoe, had been writing books of English life, and their experiments were broadening into many fields. In fact, some forward-looking men and women had begun to write of political and social ideals, and even of education. But novels and short stories were not yet in their present-day repute. One respectable magazine advertised that it would consider novels, tales, and romances provided they were not more than three or four pages in length. Weak little tales of horror, sentiment, and pathos were appearing humbly in a few magazines. Later, the tales were strongly marked with horror and pathos. These reached their full maturity in the vivid tales of our American Edgar Allen Poe. In the 1830's these tales, either of horror or of pathos, were made into decorative gift books, and no lady's table was complete without one. Then came Sir Walter Scott, bred on the border legends, who wrote three short tales, yet whose books inspired many a writer of romantic short narratives. Over in America, Poe, Hawthorne, and Irving had brought perfection of style and humor into the short story. Still, the English writers were slow to grasp the Americans' technique. Dickens, Thackeray, Gaskell, and others were writing short narratives along with their long novels, but not one of them achieved the short story as we know it today. Of them all, Dickens rose to the greatest fame. Much of his success in the field of short narratives was due to his Christmas books. Even now there are few persons who do not know "Scrooge" and "Tiny Tim"; and the 'Christ mas Carol" and "Cricket on the Hearth" have not been displaced in our Christmas literature. The Dickens' stories were long and meandering, but they contained his -characterizations—without which there would be no Dickens. With Charles Reade and Henry Kingsley came a transitional period. Reade's story, "The Box Tunnel," gives the effect of a single idea. 'However, it was not until 1877, when Robert Louis Stevenson's first story, "A Lodging for the Night" appeared that England awoke to the modern short story. It was right that Stevenson should be the first to produce it. He was steeped with French culture, and the short story is French in its art of restraint and grace. 692 Stevenson is best known in the short story field for his impressionistic stories. Perhaps '""Markheim" is the best liked. This story does not appear in the text (and his one story is not listed for class use because of the difficulty of the dialect), but it is worth the effort of finding it in another collection. It is a psychological story—of a man's struggle with himself and his decision. Aside from grace of style, Stevenson will live because he has made his characters act and made them English. And his subject matter is decidedly Anglo-Saxon. If Stevenson made the short story beautiful, it remained for Kipling to carry it into new fields. Of all the English writers during the latter part of the 19th and the forepart of the 20th centuries, Kipling is the most vigorous, versatile, and highly gifted. His stories carry a glamor no other English writer has been able to obtain. This glamor is due to many things; racial contrasts, foreign settings, descriptions that made the reader smell and. Feel the Orient, and a sense of England's might, and above all to the fact that everything he wrote was interesting. Kipling was often journalistic, an accusation that covers poor taste, sensationalism, and even vulgarity, some critics claim, but he has written a few of the most exquisite stories in the English language. The "Brushwood Boy" and "They" are two of his best. Neither he nor any other contemporary English writer is found in the text, but he must not be neglected. The two stories mentioned, 'Without Benefit of Clergy," "The Man Who Would Be King," "The Return' of Imray," "The Man Who Was," and a hundred others are worth reading. Helped by Kipling, England took the short story to herself, and her RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE writers today rival America's. There are but few English novelists who do not write short stories. John Galsworthy, Conrad, Hardy, Hewlett, Aldous Huxley, Moore, Rebecca West, Katherine Mansfield, Macefield, James Joyce and J. M. Barrie are only a few whose names are familiar to American readers. Brief Summary of the Short Story in Great Britain 1. Short story first came into England with the Roman church. 2. France next influenced the story by means of her fables, fairy tales, and miracle stories. 3. Chaucer then took the medieval tales and made them alive with characters of contemporary England. 4, After a long period Italy's influence was next felt. 5. Engiland's talents and tastes then began to improve and she learned to value home writers—Addison, 'Steele, Defoe, etcetera. 6. Romantic movement, with. Its sensational and melodramatic tales came next; and was followed by the modern short story. Suggested Stories The 'White Trout by Samuel Lover.* Dickens' The Old Man's Tale of the Queer Client. Wilkie Collins' A Terribly Strange Bed. Thomas Hardy's Squire Petrick's Lady. Oscar Wilde's The Selfish Giant.* George Moore's Julia Cahill's Curse. Arthur Morrison's That Brute Simmons.* *The starred stories are all brief and delightful reading. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY Brief Biographical Sketches Samuel Lover is the Irishman of romantic legend. He had a joyousness of spirit that sorrows, illness, and financial reverses could not quench. In him were housed many talents. At various times he was a painter, a caricaturist, a composer of songs, a singer, a dramatist, and a writer of fairy tales and poems. It was his stock-broker father's plans to make Samuel into a business man, but at seventeen the boy set himself up as an artist. One of his miniatures made him famous and he moved from! Dublin, where he was born in 1797, to London, It was here that he wrote his delightful "Irish Legends and Tales," from which "The White Trout" is taken. His songs, "Rory O'Moore," "Widow Machree," "The Girl I Left Behind Me," and a great many others are still loved and sung. In 1842 he wrote his best novel, "Handy Andy." Then his eyesight began to fail him and for very necessary reasons he took himself to America, where supposedly every one was wealthy. At any rate America lost many a dollar when he departed, but she was the richer for the memories of his "Irish Evenings." It was next England's turn to listen to "American Evenings," and there was no longer any worry in the Lover family about bank accounts. His health now gradually failed him; he died on the Isle of Jersey in 1868. Charles Dickens When Charles Dickens came to America, people stood in line for hours to get tickets for his entertainments. He wrote home that each ticket-buyer was furnished with a little bag of bread and meat, two blankets, and a bottle of whiskey, and thus outfitted they would 693 sleep on the pavement the whole night before his performances. Re- | gardless of the truth of this description, no president or hero, unless it were Lindbergh, has ever received quite the ovation Dickens did on his visits to America. And he came the second time after he had written many caustic criticisms of us. Today his name is more of a household word than any other writer, living or dead. To be very brief with him, he was born at Landport in Portsea on the southern coast of England, February 7, 1812, and he died at his home, Gadshill Place, June 9, 1870. It is said of him that he overcame two of a writer's greatest obstacles— poverty and lack of an education. In appearance, he was small with clear, blue, intelligent eyes and quick movements. As the years passed on and he wrote. An almost impossible number of novels and stories, he grew more strained and nervous. Perhaps as a compensation for the poverty of his earlier years, he was inclined to be foppish in his dress. At nineteen he became a reporter. A few years later he dropped a little story into a "dark letter box in a dark office up a dark court in Fleet Street." Before he died, he was the most famous author in the world, and in addition to his many novels, stories, and Christmas books, he had managed a company of actors and given countless numbers of personal appearances, where he read his stories and impersonated his characters. It is said of him that he did a great deal to help the condition of the poor in England, to establish prison reform, and to. Forward education; yet he discharged a servant girl because he objected to her language, which she, poor thing, could not help. He was tender, and kind, 694 and sympathetic, and gave liberally to his family and friends and to any one in want; yet he was vain and conceited and he estranged his father and mother and many of his friends by his caricatures of them, and he made his lovely and intelligent wife's life miserable for a good many years. William Wilkie Collins Tales of mystery and horror have always been popular, and in late years the detective story and novel have grown even more so. "The Crime Club," made up of members who regularly subscribe for such books, is one of the modern developments of this kind of literature, The fact that many people, daily employed in strenuous mental work, find the completest relaxation in mystery stories is one of the reasons for their popularity. A second reason is another variation of the "escape mechanism." People read these stories and for a time forget their own troubles. William 'Wilkie Collins (1882- 1899) is a skillful writer of mystery tales, one of which, "A Terribly Strange Bed," appears in the text. He believed that plot was the most important part of the story, and it was his aim to make his readers follow his stories with breathless absorption. No one can read "A Terribly Strange Bed" and say that Collins failed. When Wilkie Collins was young, he was surrounded with the atmosphere of art, but his inclination was for writing. At first he wrote only for his amusement, being in turn a business man and a lawyer. He finally found that he could be more successful in writing. Some of his best collections are ''Moonstones," "A Woman in White," and "After Dark." RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE Oscar Wilde Oscar Wilde was a genius and an artist, but he was a man of too much artifice. He was born in 1854 at Dublin of distinguished parents. It was always his misfortune that he valued art above life. He was indifferent to almost everything save sensuous beauty; cared nothing for social questions of the day, though his imprisonment in an English jail was reflected in his most significant poem "Reading Gaol." Yet he wrote beautiful poetry, brilliant dramas, and charming fantasies, and as a Stylist he has not been excelled. Passion and affectation made Oscar Wilde weak in character, However, he could produce beauty, and because of this beauty he is assured a place among the immortals. For years he has been a favorite subject for biographers; perhaps the truth has not yet been learned about him. Two of his plays that have been produced almost every place that English is spoken are the "Importance of Being Earnest" and "Lady Windemere's Fan." "The Selfish Giant" is found in his "The Happy Prince and Other Tales." George Moore George Moore was born in Ireland, County Mayo, in 1852, of a distinguished statesman's family. He is aS many-sided a person as can be expected even of the great celebrity he is. In him there is the pagan, the Protestant, the artist, the realist, the. Stylist, the patriot, the antiIrishman, and the dramatist. And he started life a Catholic, When he was quite young he wrote poetry—his "Poems of Passion" being his best known—but he lost the gift as he grew older. Painting he loved better than anything in life, and had the sense, after giving it a fair trial, to know that he GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY could not win fame by following it. However, his essays on painting are among the best of his works. It was hard for him to separate himself from his writing—essays, novels, poems, dramas, or stories. Some part of him is always in them in a vivid way. At the time of the Boer War London disgusted him and he came back to Dublin for a ten year's stay. One of his friends during this period said that the reason Moore grew so dissatisfied with Ireland was that, brilliant actor that he was, he could find no audience. All of his Irish intimates were equally gifted in acting, and Moore could not be happy in the background. After ten years he disowned Ireland and her seeming futility. And Ireland hated him for his "Parnell's Island." Not even his '"Untilled Field," a collection of beautiful Irish folk tales, could heal the hurt that Moore had made. A critic of Moore said that he was a man who by personal taste liked to see his stories end happily, but would not allow them to do so for the sake of his art. Moore had great insight into people, especially into 695 women. Often he wrote of the lowly. Where Dickens would have said of these people: "How amusing," Moore's reaction was: "How alike everywhere is the human heart." Questions Which of the stories that you have read do you think best achieves the single impression? Why? What are the essentially British characteristics that you find in these stories? Could any of the stories have been written with another country for a background? Discuss. In which story or stories is plot emphasized, in which character, and in which setting? How does George Moore show his feeling toward the Catholic church in "Julia Cahill's Curse?" Do you think you could recognize other stories by these same authors? Discuss why? Why would Morrison's "That Brute Simmons" make a capital oneact play? How has Morrison achieved humor in this story? (Every one will enjoy Simmons. ) LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February) Personality Study: How to Change Persons Based on Overstreet's "Influencing Human Behavior," pages 143- Our previous lessons for the most part have dealt with the relatively simple and frequent methods which we employ to temporarily influence human conduct. We wish to capture someone's attention. How is it best accomplished? We wish to persuade a person to do this or that. What means are appropriate to employ? Our desire is to make our speech or writing more effective. How can psychology be of service here so that the ideas we express will stick long enough to accomplish the desired end? Such have been 696 the problems of our first four lessons and if we have been taking the work seriously enough, we are fairly well prepared to consider the next five lessons. We are now to attempt to understand the possibilities of influencing human behavior in more fundamental ways; also something of the more difficult and probably more interesting techniques that must be used in making these rather permanent changes in ourselves and others, Many people have the notion that our personalities are fixed for good or ill at birth or before. They say we are as helpless in making honest-to-goodness changes in our personal traits and characteristics as we would be in changing the color of our eyes. We have all heard them repeat with almost convincing effect such cliches as these: "She's redheaded so you know it is her nature to be hot-tempered;" "He's a chipfrom the old block and can't help but be that way;" "Human nature never changes," etc. Even the sayings about leopards not being able to change their spots and of sows returning immediately to wallow in the mire are given as if they applied with equal force to human beings. We have already had emphasized quite a different point of view in our previous lessons. We know that most competent psychologists would have us regard our personalities as not necessarily static or fixed, but as being still in the making. They would have us know that the saying that "human nature never changes" is at most only partly true. Probably no one is capable of settling for us the problem of the relative importance of heredity and environment or of the exact proportion of our behavior traits that really are inborn on the one hand or acquired on the other. As Overstreet says, RELIEF; SOCETY MAGAZINE "It is not always easy to say precisely where the human nature that is unchangeable leaves off and the human nature that is changeable begins." However, we can be sure that those parts of our behavior that are tentative, conscious, plastic and changing in character are in reality as much human nature as those parts that are characterized as being fixed, automatic, unconscious, unchanging, etc. In short, some parts of human nature are relatively static and rigid, so to speak, while other parts are subject to change and development. That human beings are not on the same plane as the great mass of the animal kingdom when it comes to considering the spossibilities for individual change and development is well stated in the following short quotation from Bagley's Educative Process, pages 30-31: "The lower animals are born with nerve connections already fixed and, except in the higher vertebrates, comparatively permanent and stable. In the nervous system of man, the entire cerebrum is practically unorganized at birth. It is a mass of latent possibilities, and whatsoever connections are made later are due almost entirely to the forces of the environment and not to the forces of heredity." The author of our text rightly insists that our insight into the nature and possibilities of human personality will be improved by considering it as a large number of more or less unified habit-systems rather than as an unanalyzable whole. As we said in Lesson Two, personality is not a mysterious entity—something wholly apart from our everyday habits, attitudes and ideals, It is made up of "all those traits and chracteristics of (one's) self that make or mar his efficiency in dealing with other individuals." In this GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY same lesson Bagby was quoted as © saying that the traits of personality are "essentially... Products of the training and the experience through which the individual has passed." From all of this it follows that personalities can be changed and that an important entering wedge for the improvement of a personality is to diagnose some of the habit deficiencies and then proceed with the "comparatively simple step-bystep process of redirecting and remoulding specific systems of habits." In understanding how to go about the job of building habits we are helped by a consideration of methods employed in training animals. In the text and also in the supplementary reference given below, will be found interesting accounts of how certain conditioned responses (or habits) are developed in the case of dogs. These experiments are important because they furnish us a simple pattern of the way all habit formation takes place. They help us to see the futility of admonition and exhortation as means of initiating the kind of habits we are interested in developing. If they are thoughtfully considered we can even understand how it is that the techniques we use at times may result in establishing habits absolutely opposed to the ones we think we are developing. For example we may unwittingly make misbehavior seem interesting to the child by the fact that it actually turns out to be exciting or profitable to him. In this connection read with especial care pages 162 and 163 of our text. It is perhaps hard for us to believe that in our efforts to help young people we use a technique which associates virtue with "dullness, suppression, scolding (and) being bad * * * with gaiety, approval, excitement, mastery." 697 Speaking of rewards and punishments we may summarize in part, in this paragraph a previous discussion of this subject by the writer: (1) Character development like other growth takes place from within and does not result from merely having children go through the outward motions of right conduct. (2) Corporal and other forms of severe punishment nearly always complicate the process of reforming the wrong-doer. At best they constitute only a beginning and should be followed by evidences of "love unfeigned." (See D. & C. 121:41-44.) (3) Rewards and punishments should be just and appropriate. They should seem to follow the acts as their natural and invariable consequences. Therefore they should not be so artificial or capricious as not to be operative in any good social group. (4) Learners should not be denied the advantage of making some mistakes, especially such as are not too serious or incompatible with safety. Some guidance in the early stages of each learning process may be quite helpful, but who has not seen numerous examples of pitiful personalities with whom parental or teacher-guidance has been carried too far? No discussion of the topic of this lesson would seem complete to the writer without a quotation of the classic rules given by William James for the formation of habits. They are as follows: (1) "In the acquisition of a new habit, or the leaving off of an old one, we must take care to launch ourselves with as strong and decided an initiative as possible. (2) Never suffer an exception to occur till the new habit is securely rooted in your life. (3) Seize the very first possible opportunity to act on every resolution you make, and on every emotional prompting you may experience in 698 the direction of the habits you aspire to gain. (4) Keep the faculty of effort alive in you by a little gratuitous exercise every day." Supplementary Reference Poulson—"Human Nature," pages 7- 24, 31-32, 74-82. (This reference is to the Teacher Training text used throughout the Church durng 1927-28. Since nearly 10,000 copies of this little book were distributed at that time we are assuming that there aré enough of them still available to justify the reference to it in this connection although it is now out of print. Future references to supplementary material such as this will be omitted in forthcoming lessons if the editor of the Magazine receives information at once that the little book is not available in most of the wards and that the material referred to in it is not actually helpful. Those wards not being able to locate this supplementary reference can get along very well with the material furnished by Overstreet and in the Magazine.) A Few of the Possible Problems for Discussion 1, Distinguish between social heredity and physical heredity. Why RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE is social heredity so very important in human development? 2. Discuss rather fully the statement that "human nature never changes." 3. Why is it so important for us not to develop too many fixed ideas? How is eternal life and progress related to our open-mindedness and teachability here and now? When do people become old fogies? 4. Give the best definition of personality that you can. Show how habit-systems are related to one's personality. 5. Discuss each of the rules of habit formation quoted from James. 6. Discuss the propositions given above on rewards and punishments. 7. Relate the circumstances of the profound changing of a personality given in the text, pages 149-152. Add an account of a similar case. 8. In what ways may habits be our servants and set us free so to speak? How may they enslave us or hinder our progress? Discuss fully.