VOL. 23.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1894.		NO. 8.


CONTENTS:

	After Many Years—L. M. H. Call For The
Second Triennial Session of the National Council 
of Women. Utah W. S. A. Convention—Nellie
Little U. W. P. C.—Ella W. Hyde. Mrs. East’s 
Visit. Dr. Parkhurst Crusade. Women Name
Candidates. Notes And News. R. S. Reports.
A Tribute Of Love—Emily G. Cluff. Obituary—
Kate Sanders. In Memoriam—E. C. E. F.
	EDITORIAL:—Interesting Trip South. Edi-
tonal Notes..
	POETRY:—Come. Back—Hyacinth. Autumnal
Dreams. Equal Rights—S. C. M.


COME BACK.

BRING back those happy days,
	When peace reigned in my heart,
And birds trilled forth their lays,
	In joyous merry part;
		When love was here,
		And naught was near,
		Thy presence here,
		To interfere.

My heart is lonely now,
	Since thou art far away,
No longer hopes allow,
	My sorrow to allay:
		Come back, my own,
		Nor leave me lone,
		Joy once mine own,
		Forever’s flown.

The waiting years have fled,
	In silence and in pain,
My blighted hopes are dead,
	No more to wake again;
		Ah, leave me not,
		To mourn my lot,
		Come back, lose not
		The goal we sought.
							HYACINTH.
August, 8th, 1894.


AUTUMNAL DREAMS.

WHEN the maple turns to crimson
	And the sassafras to gold;
When the garland's in the meadow
	And the aster's on the wold;
When the moon is lapped in vapor
	And the night is frosty cold;

When the chestnut burrs are opened
	And the acorns drop like hail
And the drowsy air is startled 
	With the thumping of the flail,
With the drumming of the partridge,
	And the whistle of the quail,—

Through the rustling woods I wander
	Through the jewels of the year,
From the yellow uplands calling,
	Seeking her that still is dear;
She is near me in the Autumn,
	She, the beautiful, is near.
					BAYARD TAYLOR.


"M. E. FRANCIS” is in private life Mrs.
Blundell, and resides at Crosby Hall, near
Blundellsands, Lancashire.


AFTER MANY YEARS.

	I HAVE found some things here much the
same as twenty three years ago and many
others seem to open a new world of pro-
gress of changed improvement of laud and
labor, the prime factors in wealth produc-
tion. It seems strange to be rapidly whirl-
ing over, around and through places I have
traveled walking on foot or conveyed by
common wheel now on electric cars or
wings of steam. Your pretty fancying
this visit after so long a lapse of years like
going to another world is unique indeed.
But the satisfaction great as it may prove to
be, must come far short of what we are led
to expect in the world immortal, where
there is no sorrow or sighing and where
tears are wiped from all faces, and no graves
dot the surface as here on hillside and vale,
to constantly remind us of our mortality
and assure us that here, “we have no con-
tinual city or abiding place;” but there is
pleasure akin to pain coming back after
long years to revisit once familiar lands and
places, and although we mark the changes
and meet but few of those that once
gladdened our hearts in the past and often
find that they too have changed, we love to
linger over memories associated with them
and every scene of the long ago is renewed,
of sunshine or shadow, of joy or sorrow,
and so we have a series of panoramic views
of the people, and times we once lived in.
	We have been to the old homestead in
North New Salem we walked over the spot
where the house once stood lingered long
upon the broad stone door step on the south
side from which I last beheld and bade a
tearful farewell to our Sainted mother, we
marked and gazed long upon the grand
spreading trees in front of where the house
once stood that our mother’s hands planted
when little saplings; we looked lovingly in-
to the clear waters of the never-failing well
which has supplied five families all through
the long drought while nearly all the wells
and springs around had failed. The well-
sweep and bucket looked the same as fifty
years ago and the pure waters from which
we drank were just as sweet and refreshing;
the little brook in which we gazed to be
reflected as in a mirror, went bounding and
leaping over its pebbly bottom as of yore,
singing the same musical song o’er and o’er.
	The School House and the Church in their
coats of white and green, the village store,
blacksmith shop and every house with very
few exceptions looked the same and in as
good condition with scarcely a mark or
change of decay. The roadways were the
same; some few more trees along by them,
but the orchards, homes and farms, looked
as when I last beheld them. There were
more graves in the pine grove cemetery
where we spent an hour or more the first
day of our visit, read names of many we
had known in the long ago inscribed upon
the marble. I spent the sabbath attending
Church service and Sunday School.
Besiah Fay now a noted man in this part
of the state taught the Bible Class, I was
greeted very cordially and invited to visit
and prolong my stay among them; was

[Column 2]
shown the inside of a door leading into a
closet from the vestibule in the Church
where in large painted letters I read the
names of our step father with the date Dec.
1836 after this names of sisters and several-
nieces who have visited the old Church
where our mother and her family worshiped
long years gone by—I added my name in
pencil to the list wondering who of onr kin
would inscribe theirs next. Mrs. Amos
Ellis took me to Moss Village. The Pond
and Vose places look the same, most of the
houses are replaced with large sized glass
for the small 8x4 lighted windows of yore.
The Lowell Vose place is now marked by
heaps of stones with shrubs and trees grow-
ing out of and among them; but strange to
tell: the grand Barberry tree that stood near
a back window of the house over fifty years
ago, remains bearing fruit annually.
All the places seem to stand still, undis-
turbed by steam or electric cars. The
sleepiest, quietest, unprogressive part of
this busy world imaginable, which seem-
ingly nothing less than a tornado would
startle into activity, and that came very
near Sept. 10th, giving parts of New Salem
a sudden shaking, leaving North village 
undisturbed in its Rip Van Winkle Sleep.
You will read accounts in the papers of
this somewhat rare experience here in the
tornado line.
	A few inhabitants of North Salem are on
the superannuated list but the majority are
old people whose children, children’s,
children to the third and even fourth gen-
eration are scattered abroad or removed for-
ever. The merry ringing voices of child
ren are no longer heard in the streets, very
few attend day or Sunday School and these
come in from homes outside the village
proper. I saw only three lads the four days
of my stay and these were visiting grand-
parents. At the village store the Post
Office is kept as of yore. A hack conveys
United States Mail with passengers &c., to
and from, daily starting from Orange at an
early hour a. m.
	What we admired most in the way of
flowers was the dear old fashioned flowers
and shrubs which are ever tenderly as-
sociated with days of childhood and youth,
we were generously supplied of these and
other floral beauties to take with us. The
dear old neverfailing well, the clear run-
ning brook, just below, the broad spread-
ing apple tree, our dear mother’s hands
planted, the long wide stone now marking
the spot where her house once stood from
which she and her younger children went
out to return no more with all the surround-
ings of groves, fields and hills, were re-
viewed with an indescribable, mournful
satisfaction of feeling, mingled with grate-
ful thanks to the kind Providence that had
permitted this visit to these old places and
scenes (with dear sisters) after long years
in the West.					L. M. H.


THOMAS BAILEY ALDRICH has been
writing poetry since 1856, when he pro-
duced a small volume of ballads. He was
then a clerk in a New York counting-room.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
CALL FOR THE SECOND TRIENNIAL
SESSION
OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
OF THE UNITED STATES.

	THE first Triennial session of the National
Council of women of the United States
was held in Washington in 1891. The
second such session would have occurred
in 1894 but for the fact that the organiza-
tion of the World’s Congress of Representa-
tive Women, held in Chicago in 1893, was
 entrusted to a committee of which the
President and the Corresponding Secretary
of the National Council were, respectively,
Chairman and Secretary. The time and
strength of these executive officers being
thus diverted from national to international
plans, it was ordered by the Executive
Committee of the National Council that
four instead of three years should elapse
prior to its next regular public session, the
date of which was then fixed for 1895. The
attention of women throughout the country
is thus early solicited to the following points
relating to the approaching Triennial:
	I. The Council will open formally on
February 18th, 1895, and, continuing two
weeks, will close on March 2nd, 1895; it
will be held in Metzerott’s Music Hall,
Washington, D. C.
	II. A meeting of which the officers of
the Council will have charge will be held
in the same Hall on the afternoon of
Sunday, February 17th. A second re-
ligious service will occupy the afternoon of
Sunday, February 24th.
	III. Exclusive of the Sunday meetings,
there will be twenty-four sessions of the
Council proper, twelve morning and twelve
evening sessions, besides probably two or
three extra afternoon sessions. The morn-
ing sessions will open at 10 a. m. and ad-
journ at 1 p. m.
	The first of these, held on Monday,
February 18th, will be occupied by the
President’s Address, and by the introduc-
tion of delegates, regular and fraternal,
and of guests; the second, held on Tuesday,
February 19th, and the last, held on Satur-
day, March 2nd, will be devoted exclusively
to formal business. The remaining nine
morning sessions will be filled by pro-
grammes made by the Committee of Ar-
rangments of the National Council. Topics
of broad general interest will be introduced
at these sessions by an adequate address
which will be followed by discussion in
which only duly accredited members of the
Triennial Council may participate, as
follows:
	(a).	The General Officers of the
National Council.
	(b).	 The patrons of the National
Council.
	(c).	The Members of all the four stand-
ing Committees of the National Council.
	(d).	The President of each organization
belonging to the National Council.
	(e).	The Delegate of each organization
belonging to the National Council.
	(f). The President of every State Coun-
cil, and of every Local Council, which
shall be affilliated with the National Coun-
cil prior to February 1st, 1895.
	(g).	The Delegates of every such State
and of every Local Council.
	IV.	In the business sessions mentioned
where alone discussion will culminate in a
vote, while the seven classes enumerated in
the conclusion of the preceding paragraph

[Column 2]
may participate in all discussions, the classes
described under (b), (c) and (g) may not
vote; but all persons included in classes
described under (a), (d) (e) and (f) may
vote upon all propositions thus formally
acted upon.
	One morning session will be devoted to
each of the four subjects continuously con-
sidered by the National Council through
its four standing Committees. The pro-
gramme for all the morning sessions will be
published later in detail.
	VI.	The evening sessions will open at
8 p. m., and will adjourn at 10.30 p. m.
Exclusive of the last they will be devoted
to the presentation to the general public of
the work of the organizations composing
the National Council, through programmes
which will be prepared by the officers or by
special committees of such organizations,
the separate programmes being subject to
the approval of the Committee of Arrang-
ments. The last evening session, viz., that
held on March 2nd, will be occupied in pre-
senting the work of the National Council
proposed for the immediate future, and in
introducing the officers elect for the next
term.
	VII.	According to the Constitution,
national organizations entering the National
Council later than three months prior to the
opening of the Triennial Session of 1895,
cannot be considered members of the Coun-
cil until after said session, although the
officers and members of such associations
will be welcome guests at the Triennial.
	VIII. The National Councils of women
already formed in foreign countries, as
France, Switzerland, Belgium, Germany
and Canada, will be invited to send frater-
nal delegates: while all of the officers of
the International Council of Women will be
invited to attend, and its President, the
Countess of Aberdeen, may be confidently
expected.
	Pending the publication of the programme
in detail, the officers of the National Coun-
cil bespeak the interest of all who read this
Call, and solicit correspondence on the sub-
jects which it suggests.
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL, President,
		343 N Pennsylvania St. Indianapolis, Ind.
FRANCES E. BAGLEY, Vice-President,
		113 Washington St., Detroit, Mich.
LILLIAN M. N. STEVENS, Treasurer,
		Stroudwater, Maine.
RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec'y.
		Somerton, Philadelphia, Pa.
ISABELLA CHARLES DAVIS, Rec. Sec.
		158 West 23rd St., New York City.


U. W. P. C.

	MEETING of the U. W. P. C. held in
the office of Dr. E. R. Shipp, September
29th, 1894. President Shipp in the chair.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. E. W. Hyde.
Roll call was responded to with sentiments
from Elizabeth Barrett Browning. An in-
teresting program was carried out as follows:
Miss Maude Pratt favored the club with a
vocal selection. Vice President R. M. Fox,
read an original poem entitled, “Retribu-
tion” which was very pathetic. It
was followed by an instrumental selection
from Mrs. [-]. Boyden. President Shipp
gave a select-reading entitled, “The true
home the salvation of the nation.” After
which Olea Shipp favored the club with in-
strumental music. Mrs. E. Boyden recited
in a pleasing style, “Othello’s Apology.”
	A motion was made and carried
that the club meet at half past seven in-
stead of at eight o’clock, as the evenings
were getting longer.
	President Shipp gave notice of a lecture
to be given in the theatre by Edwin Milton
Royle for the benefit of the Pioneer
Library, urged the club to attend. Also
said the next session of the club would be
the last one of the year, she desired a good
attendance, and hoped to have an interest-
ing meeting. A special committee was ap-
pointed to meet and arrange a program for
the occasion. Meeting adjourned for one
month. Benediction by Mrs. N. C. Taylor.
After which refreshments were served.
	ELLA W. HYDE, Asst. Sec.


UTAH W. S. A. CONVENTION.
	THE Annual Convention of the Ter-
ritorial W. S. A., of Utah was held Oct.
9th, 1894, in the Fourteenth Ward Hall.
First Vice President Emily S. Richards in
the chair. Opening prayer Mis. E. J.
McFarlane. The minutes of the previous
Annual Convention were read and accepted.
The Treasurer read her report for the past
year which was approved. The Associa-
tion then proceeded to elect its officers for
the year 94 and 95., as follows—
	Emmeline B. Wells, President Emily
S. Richards, First Vice President; Julia P.
M. Farnsworth, Second Vice President;
Carrie E. Dye, Third Vice President; Nel-
lie Little, Recording Secretary; Augusta
W. Graut, Corresponding Secretary; Ruth
M. Fox,Treasurer. Phebe Y. Beatie, Chair-
man of Executive Committee. Elizabeth


McCune, Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, Dr.
R. B. Pratt, E. J. McFarlane, Ella W.
Hyde, members of Executive Committee.
May Wells, Chairman of Publishing Com-
mittee. Louisa Greene Richards, Annette
W. Culmer, members. Eliza A. Bennion,
Susie Bennion, Auditors.
	The chairman called for reports from the
different counties. Mrs. E. J. McFarlane,
Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, Mrs. C. M. White
and Mrs. M. J. Shelby responded, repre-
senting respectively Salt Lake, Davis,
Beaver ard Rich counties. The following
resolutions were adopted by the Convention.
	“WHEREAS the Political parties of Utah
have manifested their approval of woman
suffrage by inserting in their platforms a
plank to that, effect.
	THEREFORE be it resolved that the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association in Territorial
Convention desires to express its grateful
appreciation of the liberality and justice
of both parties in thus recognizing the wo-
men of Utah as being entitled to equal
suffrage with themselves: that we have im-
plicit confidence in the earnestness of the
parties and we assure them that they will
never have cause to regret adopting said
resolutions. And when these champions of
liberty shall meet in convention to frame a
constitution for our State government, con-
taining such enlightened and progressive
sentiments as those embraced in their plat-
forms not only ourselves but our
co-workers throughout the Nation will
unite in showering heart-felt praises upon
their honored heads."
	Lucy A. Clark Chairman of Com-
mittee on Resolutions.
	The Convention adjourned to the call of
the president after the Resolutions were
adopted.
	NELLIE LITTLE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


EQUAL RIGHTS.

(Written for the B. C. W. S. A., Words and Music
	By S. C. M]
Now the voice of womankind is startling all the
	world;
	Woman must have equal rights with man.
Everywhere beneath the sun her banner is un-
	furled,
	Woman must have equal rights with man.
We but ask for freedom and the right to live and
	be,
	What we are designed in God’s great plan
And we’re sure all thinking men will very shortly
	see,
Woman must have equal rights with man.
	Chorus.
We but ask for freedom and the right to live and
	be
	What we are designed in God’s great plan;
And we’re sure all thinking men will very shortly 
	see
	Woman must have equal rights with man.
Should it be that in the land o’er which our
	standard waves
	And our eagle soars so proud and free,
Mothers, sisters, daughters should all be held as
	slaves,
	Should they have to beg for liberty?
We must pay our taxes, and the laws we must
	obey.
	And it’s time an era now began
When in the elections we can also have a say—
	Woman should have equal rights with man.
	Chorus.
Come my sisters, let us rise and educate our
	minds,
	Put aside our follies great and small
Work with heart and soul to help all womankind,
	Gather round our standard one and all.
Do not pause nor falter. but be valiant in the
	fight,
	And the flame of liberty we’ll tan.
Till it spreads o’er all the land, then hail the time
	of right,
	When woman shall have equal rights with man.


[Column 1]
MRS. EAST'S VISIT.

Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	DEAR SISTER:—Yours of September was
forwarded to me, and gladly received, bring-
ing with it a blessing from Sister Zina and
yourself, which I assure you was ap-
preciated, as I was not well, and far from
the Saints of God, in the midst of darkness
and opposition; to whom could I go but
God, O how glad I was that I had learned
to know that He was a tangible being, and
that He could hear and answer prayer, and
when asked the question by two Evanglists
what denomination I belonged to, my re-
ply was Latter-day Saints.
	Evangelist. "What's the difference be-
tween Mormons and Latter-day Saints?"
	"We are called Mormons because of the
record that was found containing a History
of an ancient people that dwelt on the
American Continent."
	Evangelist. "What do your people be-
lieve of the Trinity?"
	"We believe in the Bible which informs us
that God created man in His own image
and that Adam heard Him walking in the
garden and God called Adam, which proves
beyond a doubt that our Father and God
has a body and His Son Jesus has a separ-
ate body and the Holy Spirit or Holy Ghost
is an acting Agent bearing record of the
Father and son constituting one spiritual-

[Column 2]
ly, agreeing in all matters they are one."
	Evangelist. "I'll never be satisfied until I
visit Salt Lake City, do come and see us we
are not afraid of investigation, our doors
are open to receive all that's good and sift
truth from error, good morning!"
	The beautiful land of Texas has been
visited by cyclones and floods and the land
is filled with Evangelists, the people are all
joining some Church, it makes no difference
to them if they do worship a God without
body, parts or passions; fear has come upon
the people and saloons are being closed and
dancing disfellowshiped.
	I have found five that believe the Gospel
but do not feel that they can gather out;
they have defended our doctrines, and have
no doubt removed some of the prejudices
and misrepresentations in circulation
against us; I find the women are taking the
lead in some matters, they have organized
a society of women to get means to hire the
graveyard beautified and fenced, and are
hunting up the records; this is a laudable
undertaking, we understand this and would
recommend it to others.
	One dear friend said I was deluded, I
bore a faithful testimony to him, and sang
that beautiful, inspirational hymn, "O, my
Father," and told him the world knew not
that we had a mother in heaven, they
know not what a Temple is for, but thanks
be to God that I can testify of these things
the pre-existence of Spirits, it is the hap-
piest theme of my soul, the tears rolled
down his cheeks, from henceforth you
shall see me no more until you shall say
blessed is he that cometh in the name of
the Lord.
	I must not close without saying I wish
our sisters to appreciate the EXPONENT
I have with me the No. 15th, July with an
account of the testimonies of the Sisters on
the fiftieth anniversary of the martyrdom
of the Prophet Joseph by which my friends
here will see that our Sisters are intelligent
and not in bondage also have sent me by
Bro. Plant the Deseret News containing Ser-
mons of President Woodruff and O. F.
Whitney, that was a great help to me when
our people were accused of taking from
and adding to the words written in this
book, long before the Bible was compiled,
which they the accusers had to acknowledge.
also the funeral services of our beloved
Brother John Morgan whom we all loved
and can testify concerning, "blessed are
the dead that lie in the Lord."
	I am as ever your devoted Sister,
WILLMIRTH EAST.
	P. S. I desire to be prayed for in the
Temple, my health has been poor and no
one to administer to me or pour out my soul
to but God my Heavenly Father, I have
an abiding faith that I shall return to my
family and the Saints that are dearer to me
than all the splendor of a fallen world.
Kopper, Bosque Co. Texas, Oct. 10, 1894.


DR. PARKHURST CRUSADE.

	AN APPEAL FOR AID.
	NEW  YORK, Oct. 13—One thousand wo-
men, all members of leading social circles,
gathered yesterday afternoon to hear the
Rev. Dr. C. H. Parkhurst speak of “The
Condition of our city and woman’s relation
to it.”
	Dr. Parkhurst, after portraying the exist-
ing municipal evils, said:
	“It is your sphere, your duty, to aid in


retarding and extirpating the corruption,
vice, and wickedness which are damning
our young men and their possibilities. It
has been said that the development of the
past year and a half, have done much to
abate this. But this is not so. With all
the fighting that has been done and all the
efforts that have been put forth, it remains
patent that the police department today is in
precisely the same condition as it was two
years ago—in league with vice and with
those who foster and promote vice and
crime.
	“You must help in rubbing out forever
our present city administration. The work
of stopping this is woman’s sphere. Your
power is immense. You can do nothing
more effective in the four weeks between
now and the election than intensify the
personal feeling which should actuate this
campaign. You women should do this.”


WOMEN NAME CANDIDATES.

	SAN BERNARDINO, Cala., Oct. 13.—The
women of San Bernardino met in conven-
tion and nominated a full county ticket,
selecting candidates from the four tickets in
the field. It purports to be non-partisan,
but the temperance element predominated
and candidates were chosen with that quali-
fication in view.
	On November 3rd an election will be
held in all the precincts of the county, and
the women will turn out in force to elect
their men. The convention consisted of
sixty-five delegates and was conducted in a
creditable manner. A dispute arose as to
the non-partisan platform but was soon set-
tled. Many stirring speeches were made
and all the delegates were on the qui vive
of ecstatic delight.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	JEROME K. JEROME has retired from the
editorship of the Idler in favor of his as-
sistant, Robert Barr. Mr. Jerome has his
hands full with his weekly, Today.
	A NEW magazine, called the Bostonian,
is to be published in Boston, beginning in
October. Its editor will be Arthur Well-
ington Brayley, and the periodical will be
devoted mainly to the past and present in-
terests of Massachusetts, and of Boston in
particular. A novel feature of the publica-
tion will be the issuing of two editions, one
in paper covers, at the price of fifteen cents,
and another in cloth binding, at twenty-five
cents.—The Writer.
	MISS DOROTHEA KLUMPKE, who has
distinguished herself in Paris, and who
passed her examination before the Sorbonne
so triumphantly, presenting a thesis on the
nature of the rings of Saturn, and receiv-
ing her doctor’s degree, is a sister of Miss
Anna Klumpke, of Boston, an artist who
has a studio on Beacon Street, and who
is known as a portrait painter of very excep-
tional power. Her sister in Paris, who has
been made a doctor of science, presented in
her thesis before the Sorbonne a very new
and original theory regarding the rings of
Saturn—that they are composed of solid
masses rather than of gaseous or fluid sub-
stance, as has heretofore been believed.
There is still another of these talented sis-
ters—Dr. Djerine Klumpke, who is a doc-
tor of medicine, and is living abroad.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, -- Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Cam[-]lia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
Salt Lake City,	OCTOBER 15, 1894.


[Column 1]
INTERESTING TRIP SOUTH.

	IN company with Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, President of the Relief Society,
we left Salt Lake City, Wednesday morn-
ing Sep. 12th ult., on the Union Pacific
Rail Road, on a trip through some of the
Southern counties in the interest of Wo-
men's Organizations. Arriving at Milford
we found a carriage in waiting and dear
Sister Lucinda Howd, President of the
Beaver Stake Relief Society, who had come
all the way from Beaver (in a high wind) to
welcome us, and accompany us on our
journey. We lost no time in stepping from
the train into the carriage, and were soon
on our way, it was a beautiful moonlight
evening but the wind was blowing a furious
gale; we arrived safe at Brother McKnight's
at Minersville about 10 p. m. and found a
warm welcome, from Brother and Sister
McKnight and supper prepared.
	At ten, the following morning Sep. 13,
we attended a meeting of the Relief Society.
Sister Lydia McKnight presiding in the
absence of the President Sister Susan Rob-
erts, whose mother was so ill she could not
leave her. At this meeting there were
some veteran brothers and sisters among
them, Brother Henry Rollins and wife
and Sister Mary E. Lightner, these were
old aquaintances of ours particularly of Sis-
ter Zina who had known them in Kirtland.
Brother William Wood who leads the choir
there, was also a veteran, had known
Joseph the prophet in Nauvoo. Some very
interesting testimonies concerning the
Prophet were borne by these brethren and
sisters who had been intimately acquainted
with him.
	Leaving Minersville early in the after-
noon we reached Beaver in good time and
were driven to the residence of the Presi-
dent of the Stake C. M. White. Several
sisters, some we had never met before, had
gathered there to meet us, and among
them one particularly dear old friend Sister
Ruth W. Tyler. It is needless to say we
were feasted, but we were everywhere we
went, and the good feeling manifest to-
wards us at all times and in all places was
very gratifying except that we felt un-
worthy of so much attention.
	Friday morning September 14, the Re-
lief Society Conference, began in the Meet-
ing House, Mrs. Lucinda Howd presiding.
Considerable pains had been taken before-
hand with the choir under the manage-
ment of Brother William Bickley, and the
music was excellent, which always adds
very much to the enjoyment of the services.
The stands were beautifully decorated with

[Column 2]
flowers and the sweet perfume was very
delightful. There was a good attendance
although it was harvest time and conse-
quently not many of the brethren could
leave the fields, and some sisters were de-
tained to cook for the harvesters, as is in-
variably the case in farming localities at
this season of the year, although afternoon
and evening meetings were very full. The
reports from wards were very satisfactory,
Beaver City has a flourishing Society, Ruth
W. Tyler, President; the Society has a
house large enough for the regular meet-
ings and is well fitted up, and also a granary
and some land and other property. It is a
great satisfaction to see the several branches
of the Society prospering as they are in
Zion. It is a good omen, and a great credit
to the active workers and a blessing to all
Israel.
	Friday night we were at Brother and Sis-
ter Bickley's, who gave a musicale as an ex-
pression of their esteem and good will,
(notice of the affair was published last
month) the evening was very enjoyable.
Saturday was the Primary Conference
which was very pleasing, Mrs. Mary E.
Murdock presiding. In the evening there
was a general meeting very numerously at-
tended and we returned home with Brother
and Sister Tyler and had a very pleasant
time, listening to Sister Zina and our host
and hostess, talking over scenes and inci-
dents of the early days in the Church in
Kirtland and Missouri. Brother Tyler was
also a member of the Mormon Battalion of
which he wrote and published the History,
a few years ago.
	On Sunday morning we went with
Brother Bickley and visited the Sunday
School in the various departments and
listened to some exercises, then repaired to
the meeting house where the children and
teachers also all the higher classes of the
young people came together, and we had
the opportunity of speaking to them upon
the good work in which they are making
great progress. It is always a source of
satisfaction in visiting the different Stakes
of Zion to see what interest is manifested
everywhere in the Sabbath Schools, and is
certainly a favorable indication for the
future of Zion.
	We attended the regular service in the
meeting house in the afternoon, and by
special request of the presiding authorities
we each of us spoke a short time from the
stand.
	At the close of meeting we accompanied
Sister Sarah M. Dell to her lovely home.
Sister Dell was well and favorably known to
the Latter-day Saints formerly in Kirtland
and Nauvoo, by her maiden name Sarah
Milliken. She was associated with the
Prophets family in early days and also con-
nected by marriage, her brother Arthur
Milliken married Lucy Smith, sister of the
Prophet. Sister Zina had been very
intimately acquainted with Sister Dell in
Kirtland when they were both young
ladies, and the reminiscenses were many
and rather pathetic. Sister Dell is one of
the most able and useful women in Beaver
County, is influential and interested in all
lines of progress and enlightenment, and
lends her aid in all directions for the ad-
vancement of every good cause. Although
she has reached four score years, she is re-
markably well-preserved and there is no ap-
parent failure in any respect, except per-
haps she cannot do quite so much actual
work.

[Column 3]
	In the evening there was a Young
Ladies Meeting, though all were invited to
come and there was a very large and in-
spiring congregation.
	Monday morning at 10 a. m. the Conven-
tion of the Beaver W. S. A. was held.
The stands were elaborately decorated,
with flowers, the suffrage color, (yellow)
predominating, the association has a hand-
some flag with the two stars representing
Wyoming and Colorado, on the deep blue,
and Utah just faintly seen in the distance,
but they are not by any means fearful that
Utah will not shine in the galaxy of in-
dependent states with equal suffrage. The
ladies came wearing their yellow ribbons,
and not lacking in mental talent, or a
knowledge of the subject in which such a
deep interest is taken by the Association.
One pleasing feature of the meeting was
the original songs, written for their own
use, one of them we publish in this issue
composed by Sarah E. Maeser, President of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of Beaver Stake.
Music by William Bickley, who has also
written one or two himself and who seems
to take as much interest in woman suffrage
as the ladies do themselves. The brethren
there are good staunch supporters of the
suffrage movement, which makes it so much
easier and more interesting for the Associa-
tion.
	The address of welcome by the President
Mrs. C. M. White was worthy of a college
graduate, it was a sort of surprise, as we
had not realized that Beaver was so far
ahead in suffrage work, though we knew
by the delegate who had attended the Ter-
ritorial Conventions, that they were mak-
ing rapid progress in this direction. We
really felt rather delicate about speaking be-
fore a convention that seemed to have so
many able speakers among their own num-
ber.
	The County officers are all well-qualified
for their duties and the President is un-
doubtedly a real leader. Mrs. White pre-
sided with dignity and is up in Par-
liamentary rules. We could not but feel
that Beaver Co. was well-equipped for the
necessary work preparatory for the fran-
chise. Possibly we may have minutes of
this Convention and of many of the meet-
ings held during our journey, sent for pub-
lication and therefore it is only needful to
make brief mention.
	In the afternoon the W. S. A. gave an
entertainment in the Relief Society Hall
with a regular program, Mrs. C. M. White
in the chair. The affair was quite elaborate,
and the program was a very instructive as
well as an entertaining one. The Hall was
profusely decorated with flags, flowers and
banners, and the large pictures of the
two great leaders of the National W. S. A.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B.
Anthony were hung in conspicuous places,
and the noble work of these women, as also
the late lamented Lucy Stone (always
reverentially mentioned) were often alluded
to by the speakers.
	Monday evening there was a meeting of
the Young Ladies Association of Beaver.
It was a beautiful sight to see the hall well
filled with young girls and young mothers,
all engaged in mutual improvement and in
spiritual growth and development, it is a
positive proof of the advancement of the
youth of Zion, for as women are, men are,
in a large degree, and society everywhere
is judged by the women of the community.
Many testimonies were borne and the work


of the Guide class favorably reported up-
on. At the close of the meeting Sister
Zina spoke in the gift of tongues with great
power, and the Holy Ghost thrilling the
entire audience. Many were present who
had never before heard the gift exercised,
and expressed great joy in being privileged
to hear it and to realize the spirit manifestly
attending its expression.
	Monday night we stayed at Brother J. R.
Murdock’s, Brother Murdock was absent
from home having gone to Salt Lake City
to attend the Republican Convention. We
had a most enjoyable time during our stay
in Beaver and were very hospitably treated 
by the brethren and sisters, for whom there
was so little we could do, however we
visited the sick and were much blest in do-
ing so, and we sought to give comforting
words to all that were in trouble and in
sorrow. One afternoon between meetings
Bishop Mumford took us in his carriage out
to Ft. Cameron, or what was once the
military station of that name.
	The “Post” is deserted now, and the
large buildings formerly used as Barracks
and Hospital, officers dwellings, and
Headquarters of the Army stationed there,
are all deserted and show plainly that the
place is uninhabited. One old couple live
there rent free to take charge of the
property, the groves are much frequented
as pleasure resorts during the summer
season, and this seems the only practical
use the once flourishing grounds can serve 
at present. One cannot help feeling what
a serious mistake the Government has
made in expending money to no real pur-
pose at Beaver and elsewhere in Utah.
	Tuesday morning September 18th, we
left Beaver for Parowan going by way of
Buckhorn Springs, Brother Harris of Beaver
driving, accompanied by his wife; we
lunched at Brother Ward’s at Buckhorn
Springs and after the horses were fed and
rested we continued on, arriving towards
evening at Parowan, where we were
hospitably entertained at Bishop Adams. 
	Wednesday the 19th, we attended two
meetings at Parowan and after the after-
noon meeting started in company with Sis-
ter Mary Ann Lunt for Cedar City. On
our way we called to see Almira Johnson
Barton, a veteran of the days of Kirtland.
She expressed great joy at seeing us and
was anxious we should stay and visit with
her, but the carriage was waiting and we
were expected at Cedar City that evening
and had promised to take supper at Sum- 
mit on our way. It was dark when we
arrived at Brother Dalley’s at Summit, but
a warm supper and a warmer welcome was
ready and we fully enjoyed the pleasant 
visit of about an hour, when we bade those
dear friends good-bye promising to have a
meeting there on our return trip. About
ten o’clock we drove into Cedar City to the
residence of Brother and Sister R. R.
Birkbeck receiving the most cordial welcome
from these dear old friends. We remained
in Cedar City two days meeting with the
Relief Society, the Young Ladies’ and the
Primary, and we had very interesting
meetings, the organizations all in good
working order and a spirit of love and
union prevailing. We spent some of the
time visiting the sick, and renewing old
acquaintances as we met with the people in
public and in private. The sisters spared no
pains in entertaining us, and we thoroughly
enjoyed our visit spiritually as well as
temporally. President Jones fitted up a

[column 2]
conveyance and furnished a driver to take
us on to Bellevue, and on Saturday morn-
ing, Sep. 22nd, we started for St. George;
the weather was exceptionally fine and the
ride was enjoyable, though the roads are
very rough. We reached Bellevue in time
for dinner, and drove to the Gates House
formerly occupied by the late Elder Jacob
Gates,now the residence of his son Welling-
ton, who was absent from home, but Mrs.
Gates made us very welcome and showed us
every attention. Here we saw the first
real Dixie vineyard, and the grapes were
being picked and dried in very large
quantities; how luscious they looked, and
sweet to the taste; after resting awhile and
dining sumptously with the most delicious
frnits for dessert we proceeded on our journey,
but before going very far we met Brother
Windsor coming with a light conveyance
from St. George to take us in charge. We
stepped from one carriage to the other, and
bade good day to Brother Birkbeck and
Brother Walker who had come with us
from Cedar City and drove on towards
Leeds; Brother Windsor made our journey
very pleasant by telling us much that was
interesting concerning the Southern country
and their labors in that vicinity, also con-
cerning the Temple, and the work which
had been done since its completion and
dedication. The scenery during the drive
was enchanting, the gorgeous red moun-
tains flaming high up on either side, and
the bright sunshine like a brilliant glory of
light and splendor is past all description.
	It was dark and late when we came to
Leeds, but we found the President of the
Relief Society, Sister Martha Wilkinson,
who gladly entertained us for the night.
Here as at Bellevue were luxuriant vine-
yards and women busy drying and caring
for the fruit
	After breakfasting with Sister Wilkinson
next morning, we proceeded on our way
towards St. George passing through Har-
risburg and Washington, the morning was
delightful and the whole landscape charm-
ing, and Brother Windsor pointed out the
cotton farm and meadow lands, and told
us of the hard work that had been done in
those once desolate valleys to make them
“blossom as the rose.” and of the new
dam that had put into the Virgen river at
such great expense, which would convert
hundreds of acres of arid land into fruitful
fields. The long and dangerous dugway of
which one hears so much is indeed some-
thing like a terror to the timid traveler, but
when one reflects that everything which
has made St. George habitable, and when
one sees the comfortable homes and
furnishings and that all had been hauled over
these dangerous roads, one must admire the
industry and perseverance and the indomi-
table energy of the people who have built
up Southern Utah.
	As one nears St. George and looks down
into that lovely valley from the winding
hills, and beholds the beautiful white
Temple standing in the centre as though it
were “let down from heaven,” what
reverent emotions fill the soul. How won-
derful it all seems to those who know the
history of this people. St. George is in-
deed very beautiful seen from the hill-tops,
and this was a season when the trees and
vines were laden with fruit, and the picture
of this city in the valley, a few years since
silent and solitary, made such an impression
upon the writer as can never be effaced.
		[To be Continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE General Relief Society Conference
held on the 4th, of October in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall was well attended by
officers and representatives from a distance,
though there were some stakes not reported
by any one. There were three sessions
morning, afternoon and evening, and much
good counsel given and valuable instruc-
tion imparted. Much regret was felt at the
absence of Counselors Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith who were absent
from their accustomed places and deep
sympathy was felt and expressed for Sister
Richards who was absent on account of the
very recent death of her only sister, Sister
Sarah S. Richards. Sister Smith had the
misfortune to fall and hurt herself a short
time before the Conference, though her in-
juries are not considered serious. We shall
publish as soon as possible, minutes of the
Conference so that all interested may know
the general tenor of the reports and the
teachings of the President.

	THE death of Oliver Wendell Holmes,
on the 7th, of October, was a sort of shock
to all those to whom his name and life-
work had become known. Since the de-
mise of John Greenleaf Whittier this event
has perhaps been looked forward to as a
thing that must transpire ere long, yet one
is none the less shocked when it actually
takes place. Of the great intellectual
giants of New England, this century has
produced (of whom there was a dozen or
more) Dr. Holmes is the last. To be sure
there are three others left of the class at
Harvard of 1829 but neither of them have
distinguished themselves as those to whom
we allude, whose names are forever en-
graven in the literature of the country and
whose noble lives will ever be an incentive
to the generations who came after them
while time shall last to “go and do like-
wise.” When poets, philosophers and
statesmen are also honest, honorable and
correct in their lives, beloved for their good-
ness of heart and admired for their virtues,
such examples are way marks to follow.
Dr. Holmes, was an upright,consistent con-
scientious man of the people, notwith-
standing his great fame, beloved and
reverenced by those who knew him inti-
mately, true as steel in all the relations of
life. When such men pass away, though
the nation mourns, they are not dead, and the
name and fame of Oliver Wendell Holmes
is immortalized.
	IT is with a considerable degree of satis-
faction we announce that Dr. Maggie
C. Shipp’s summer class of women students
in Obstetrics, recently passed a successful
examination before the Territorial Medical
Board. This is the first time any class has
been quizzed by them, as formerly it was
customary that the classes taught were ex-
amined as to their attainment by two or
three M. D’s. invited to judge of their
qualifications. In this instance it was quite
an ordeal, and naturally enough the Doctor
herself is somewhat proud of it and is cer-
tainly entitled to congratulations and well-
merited praise on account of the success of
her class, which reflects great credit upon
her method of teaching, and proves what
we have often heard before, that she is
practical and thorough in the discipline and
training of her classes. Each one of the
class received her certificate to practice in
her profession from the Territorial Board,


[Column 1]
and is now fairly equipped to enter upon
the practice of her chosen profession. The
names are Miss Sarah Reed, Woodruff
Rich Co., Miss Beda Erickson, Manti,
Sanpete Co. Mrs. Mary A. Turner West
Jordan, Salt Lake Co. Mrs. Elizabeth
Froerar, Huntsville, Weber Co. all of Utah.
We must also congratulate these students
that they have been so successful in their
studies and we hope and trust that they
will be wise, prudent and conscientious in
the use of the knowledge they have gained,
that they may be a blessing wherever their
services may be required.
	THE Semi-annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints held this month was in all respects
satisfactory and encouraging. The at-
tendance was numerous and the teaching
and instruction all tended in the direction
of spiritual uplifting and comforting to all
who desire to keep the commandments ot
God, and in temporal matters in the estab-
lishment and sustaining, of such home-
industries, as would be instrumental in
building up home institutions and manu-
factories that would give employment to
those in need of work and make the people
self supporting. Some very impressive
counsel was given in regard to the obser-
vance of Fast days and also upon the Word
of Wisdom, and the spirit of God was
poured out in rich abundance upon the
speakers and the immense congregations
assembled to listen. On Sunday Oct. 7th,
the last day of the Conference the people
could not all be accommodated with seats,
or even standing room, notwithstanding
there was an overflow meeting in the As-
sembly Hall, after the large Tabernacle had
been crowded. The spirit of the Confer-
ence augurs well for the future of Zion and
shows the great interest of the Latter-day
Saints who live at long distances from the
Centre Stake, who many of them travel at
great expense and inconvenience, that they
may hear the words of life and salvation
from the lips of servants of the Lord at
these great Conferences of the Church, and
carry home with them the spirit, and a
portion of the instruction given to impart
to others, and as a guide to their lives in the
work in which they and all true Latter-day
Saints are so deeply interested.
	THE North American Review for Oct.
contains a bright and argumentative
article by Lady Henry Somerset entitled,
“The Renaissance of Women.” The
reasoning is so broad and so clear that we
delight to republish it, had we the space
and power, but we hope most of the readers
of the Exponent especially those interested
in Suffrage might read it all. We quote
the following paragraph and from that we
may judge the pleasing and commencing
style of the article.
	"I believe that woman should vote be-
cause she is a different being and always
will have a different work to do in life from
that of man. She has a divine task to ac-
complish, you entrust her with the most
sacred duty on earth; you ask her to give
the nation her children; you ask her to nur-
ture and care for them; you ask her to in-
stil into their minds the holiest aspirations
that are to be their guide in after life; you
ask her, with all her experience and judg-
ment, to look upon the world with its
many social evils that her mother’s eyes are
swift to see while yours are blinded, and
then you ask her to believe that it is
'justice' that her voice should be silent, her

[Column 2]
action powerless to guard the interests of
her girls whom you declare that men, and
men alone must represent. You ask her to
sit through long weary nights rocking the
cradle, but when the child grows up to
manhood you say that she has no right to
deal with those questions that make for the
weal or woe of his future life. You do not
deny that in many cases women maintain
the home by their own labor, that by the
‘Sweat of their brow do they eat bread,’
that the children owe their education, their
clothing, the roof over their heads, to the
work of their mother’s hands; you do not
ask the men of the state represent the wo-
men when they have no one to earn a liv-
ing for, the children who are deprived by
death of a father or deserted by a worthless
husband; but only when you come to the
edge of the Rubicon, where toil is merged
into privilege, and penalties jars over into
power, do you say to the woman, “Stand
back; thus far and no farther!”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

			SALT LAKE STAKE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake convened in
the Assembly Hall Sept. 21st, 1894.
President M. I. Horne presiding. On the
stand with the President were her Aids,
Julia C. Howe and Lydia D. Alder and
other ladies. Meeting opened with sing-
ing, “O happy souls who pray,” etc.
Prayer by Sister Julia Pack. Singing, “For
the strength of the hills we bless Thee.”
Minutes of previous conference (morning
session) read and approved. Roll called,
thirty-nine branches being represented,
leaving eight without representation.
	President Horne gave special instruction
in regard to the time and manner of making
out reports. Spoke at some length on the
subject of Home Industry, and the impor-
tance of patronizing the Woman’s Store, felt
hopeful of its being a success The pro-
ceeds from the excursion had helped it
wonderfully, felt to thank all those who had
assisted in getting up the excursion said it
had been a success socially and financially,
gave a report of the same. Spoke of the
evils of fault-finding and pointed out the
duties resting upon us, dwelling especially
on the importance of mothers watching over
their children and guarding them from the
vices and evils that are so prevalent.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder was pleased with
the report that had been given of the ex-
cursion. Spoke chiefly on Home Industry
and the Woman’s Store. Exhorted the
sisters to live as saints of God, because we
take with us the record we make in this
life.
	Sister Julia C. Howe was pleased with
the timely advice that had been given,
spoke of the evil results of being negligent
in our duties, continued the subject of
Home Industry and gave good advice in
regard to the care of children.
	Sister Mary E. Irvine made interesting
remarks on obedience, and the necessity of
watching over our children and teaching
them correct principles. Meeting adjourned
until 2 p. m. singing, “Satan’s empire long
has flourished,” ect. Benediction by Sister
Elvira S. Hurst.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—On the stand
with President Horne was her Counselor
H. M. Whitney, her Aids and others.
Opened with singing, “How firm a founda-

[COLUMN 2]
tion,” etc. Prayer by Sister Martha Bar-
row. Singing, “We thank Thee O God
for a Prophet,” etc. Minutes of previous
conference (afternoon session) read and
approved.
	President Horne was pleased with the
increased attendance. Stated it had been
decided to change the day of meeting from
Friday to Saturday, that the sisters who
were at the Temple might be present.
	Counselor H. M. Whitney asked for the
faith and prayers of those present as she
felt very weak; but still felt to thank the
Lord for his blessings. We all have trials,
thought they were sent for our purifica-
tion and for a wise purpose.
	Sisters E. Webb, E. Pixton, E. C. Claw-
son and L. D. Alder, addressed the con-
ference, touching upon the topics discussed
by previous speakers, and urged the im-
portance of having faith in sickness, and
not depending too much upon doctors.
	President Horne in her closing address
said we should let the things we had heard
sink deep in our hearts, and feel thankful
for the privilege of taking part in the Gos-
pel and dwelt upon the importance of train-
ing our children while young. Urged the
sisters of the Relief Society in all its
branches to be prepared to take care of the
poor through the coming winter that none
might suffer. Also thought the Relief
Society should make an effort to have an
appropriate exhibit at the Territorial Fair.
	Conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing, “Doxology.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Diana Reed.
				ELLA W. Hyde, Asst. Sec.

			BEAVER STAKE.
	MINUTES of Relief Society Conference
of Beaver Stake held in Beaver City, Sep.
14th, 1894. Conference called to order by
President Lucinda Howd. Singing, “Now
let us rejoice, etc. Prayer by Patriarch
Daniel Tyler. Singing, Come all ye Saints
of Zion, etc. President Howd was pleased
to meet with the sisters in conference.
Thought that nothing but sickness ought
to keep us at home on these occasions,
was also pleased to announce that President
Zina D. Young and Sister E. B. Wells were
with us and would give us good instruc-
tions. Minutes of previous conference
read and approved. President R. W.
Tyler of Beaver reported the Relief Society
of this place as in good condition financially
and spiritually. There are about one hun-
dred and seventy members. Hold meet-
ings three times a month and we are study-
ing the Lectures on Faith in the Doc. &.
Cov. We are united in our labors and are
trying to perform our duties. President
Mary Davis reported the Relief Society of
Greenville Ward as being united in their
labors. Counselor Lydia McKnight re-
ported the Relief Society of Minersviile.
We try to feed the hungry and clothe the
naked. We rejoice in the gospel and the
testimonies of each other and have good
times in our meetings.
	President Zina D. H. Young then ad-
dressed the sisters in a very affectionate and
impressive manner. "I am thankful to see
your faces once more. We are all de-
pendent on our Heavenly Father for as-
sistance in all our labors.” Explained how
we are sanctified and justified through
keeping the whole law of Christ. Faith is
our guiding star and we should live for it.
Spoke of her visit to Canada and of the
gifts and blessings of the gospel enjoyed by


[Column 1]
the sisters there obtained by them through
fasting and prayer. Spoke on the proper
training of children, the benefits of home-
industries, especially of the manufacture of
silk, and the hygiene of dress. Said if we had 
observed the counsel of President Brigham
Young on this latter subject we would now
lead the world in these mattess. “We are
blessed above all other people on the face
of the earth and we should so live in the
performance of all our duties that we may
escape the snares of the evil one.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said the sisters were a
great help in all the important labors in the 
church. Spoke at some length on our ex-
hibits at the World’s Fair, said they were
an object lesson to the whole world. Re-
ferred to the manufacture of straw goods
and thought it might be made a great in-
dustry. “Our young people should be
taught to respect and honor the aged, and
to strive for a testimony for themselves.
If we have faith and perform our duties we
can receive every gift and blessing of the 
gospel necessary for our salvation.”
	President C. D. White would have liked
to have seen every sister in the stake at the
meeting to hear the instruction that had
been given. Appreciated very much the
labors of the Relief Society. “There are 
no better organizations, or none doing bet-
ter work than they. Thousands of bushels
of grain will be raised this year that would
not have been had not the sisters furnished
the seed. The church and kingdom of
God would be a failure without the sisters,
and the time is near when they will be
recognized as a great power in the earth.”
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. sing-
ing, “I saw a mighty angel fly.” Benedic-
tion by Bishop George Mumford.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Conference called
to order by President Howd. Singing,
“We thank thee O God, ”etc. Prayer by
Elder Robert Stoney. Singing, “O God 
our help,” etc.
	Stake Counselor S. M. Dell gave a few
words of counsel and bore testimony. The
statistical and financial report of the stake
for the year ending Dec. 31, 1893, was
read, showing a total cash disbursement of
$188.25; Property disbursed $168.63.
On Hand Cash, $160.65; Property, $187.82;
Real Estate, $3,670. Wheat 1194 bushels
17 pounds.
	Stake Counselor Lydia White testified to
the truth and her appreciation of the coun-
sel of the sisters. “Counselor Mary A.
White said: Relief Society women should
be exemplary in their lives as more is expected
of them than of other women. We should
exercise humility and diligence and strive
to overcome our weaknesses.”
	Sister M. E. Murdock:—“The allurements
of the world are great and we need the
"still small voice" to prompt us that we 
may escape them. Teach our children, boys
as well as girls, the priceless value of
chastity and as parents associate more with
our young people to encourage and lead
them in the right way.” The minutes of
the last annual meeting of the Beaver
Ward Relief Society were read by the
Secretary of that association, Sister Alice
Tanner.
	President Zina Young again addressed
the conference. “When the Relief Society
was first organized by the Prophet he said
the sisters could have no idea of the great-
ness of their work. Joseph turned the key
for women and their sphere has been widen-
ing ever since until now their influence and
power are felt all over the world. The sun

[Column 2]
never sets upon the Relief Society.
That is it extends more than half way
around the globe.” Spoke of the impor-
tance and sacredness of the work in the
Temples. “The spirit of Elijah is working
in the hearts of the people, even those who
are not of us, to hunt up their records that
the work in the Temples may go on.
Obedience and humility brings to us the
grandest knowledge on earth and opens the
door of Heaven to us. We can feel the
presence of angels even in our amusements
if they are conducted aright. Knowledge
is power and we need to learn the laws of
life and health so we can do without doc-
tors.” Gave instructions with regard to
clothing the dead and exhorted the sisters
to sustain the EXPONENT.
	Sister E. B. Wells also spoke of Temple
work. "There is, in the Temple, a heavenly
influence so exalting and inspiring that one
seems to be near the other shore. We
ought to be willing to sacrifice our worldly
interests once in a while to do some of this
great work.” Spoke of the importance of
education and the good we can do with it
if we only know how to use it. Re-
ferred to the great opportunities af-
forded by the World’s Fair to remove prej-
udice and error with regard to the great
work of the Latter-days. “In establishing
our home industries we hope to pay our
employees enough to honorably sustain
themselves.” Advised the mothers to keep
their girls at home and not expose them to
the dangers and temptation of city life.
“Use all the influence we possess to refine
and elevate ourselves and those around us.”
Spoke of the sisters store and asked the
sisters to help sustain it.
	Bishop Mumford was pleased with the
counsel that had been given and thought
the mothers in Israel the most important
part of the community,said I would not want
to be a bishop if I could not have the help
of the Relief Society. Exhorted the
mothers to teach their children the principles
of repentance and baptism that they might
better understand them when they come to
be baptized. Conference adjourned until
Saturday 10 a. m. Singing, “Lord dismiss
us.” Benediction by Elder Frank Harris.
	SATURDAY MORNING:—Conference called
to order by President Howd. After the
opening exercises President R. W. Tyler
testified to this being the work of the Lord
and He would give us knowledge intelligence
and strength if we were faithful to our trust.
	President Zina D. H. Young greeted the
sisters with words of love. “The greatness
and power in Israel consists in the people
being taught correct principles, and the
capacity the people have of self government.
Gave instructions on the order to be ob-
served in our organizations because we
want to enjoy the same spirit that prevails
in Heaven where obedience and order are
the first laws.” Exhorted the sisters to be
faithful to their duties particularly in the
matter of family prayer, and especially
those who have no husbands and are them-
selves heads of families, that a bond of
union and strength might be around them
and their children taught by precept and
and example, especially the latter, the way
of eternal life. President Howd spoke on
the mission of the sisters, their various
duties in the Relief Society and also in
their families. “The welfare and future
greatness of our children depend in a great
measure on the training they receive from
the mothers, hence we cannot be too pains-

[Column 3]
taking and conscientous in our teaching and-
examples. Pray for wisdom and knowl-
edge and our Heavenly Father will give
them to us.”
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke very
beautifully on the principle of obedience.
“It is only throught his principle we receive
all the gifts and blessings of the gospel.
The National Council of women will be
held in Washington next February and we
must make a good representation there.
It was the mind of our leading brethren
that we become a part of these great coun-
cils of women and it is a great advantage
to us and our money is not thrown away
that goes to pay our membership in those
Councils.”
	Sister Mary McDonough a sister from
Emery County; “I received the first gospel
sermon in this house and I have been faith-
ful to the work ever since. As I am about
to leave for my distant home and may
never see your faces again I wish to leave
this testimony with you.” The general and
stake officers were presented to the con-
ference and unanimously sustained. Bishop
Mumford gave further instructions to the
mothers with regard to the training of
children. President Zina Young blessed
the sisters and asked God to strengthen us
and help us to live unitedly. Conference
adjourned for six months. Singing, “Glory
to God on high,” etc. Benediction by
Patriarch D. Tyler.
	Thus closed the best and most interesting
Relief Society Conference ever held in
Beaver Stake. We appreciate very much
the counsel and instructions of our beloved
President Aunt Zina and her co-laborer Sis-
ter Wells and our prayers go with them that
may be blessed in their labors of love and
return in safety to their homes.
			LOUISSA JONES, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RICHARD HARDING DAVIS was thirty
years old last April.
	“Curtis Yorke’s” real name is Mrs. John
Richmond Lee. Mrs. Lee was born and
educated in Glasgow.
	MISS ANNIE HOLDSWORTH, whose first
story, “Joanna Traill, Spinster,” was pub-
lished some months ago, edits the Woman's
Signal in London and is associated with
Mr. Stead in the literary work of the
Review of Reviews.
	MRS. ELIZABETH B. GRANNIS, of New
York City, as president of the Christian
League for the Promotion of Social Purity,
has a great many cases of suffering brought
to her notice. She is making appeals for
help from the charitable for funds to build
city and country industrial homes for women
where they may also take dependent mem-
bers of their families. In this connection
the fact is being brought to light that there
is no free temporary home for respectable
women in New York. The Superinten-
dent of Out-door Poor said recently to a re-
porter for the Times.
	“I say it is terrible. In this City of
New York a woman must first acknow-
ledge she is bad or she cannot get a place to
stay over night.”—Ex.
	FRANCES WILLARD passed her 55th
birthday on Sept. 28, and was given, as the
Chicago papers said, “Such a birthday
party as never woman had before" There
was a celebration at the Temple in the
morning, and at the First Congregational
Church in the afternoon. C. C. Bonney


made the address of welcome for the citi-
zens of Chicago, and Rev. Dr. J. H. Bar-
rows for the clergy; President Rogers, of
Northwestern University for the educa-
tors, and half a dozen other distinguished
men and women for different classes and
associations. Anne Whitney's bust of
Miss Willard was unveiled, and so was the
Chautauqua fountain. The boys Brigades
of the city escorted Miss Willard to the
church, and there was great enthusiasm.
It was a well deserved tribute.—Ex.
	THE remonstrants against woman suf-
frage think it would be “unwomanly” for
women to vote. They have an idea that
suffragists wish to place women in un-
natural positions. But the fact is the so-
called conservatives are far less sensitive
than the liberals on this point. In Ger-
many, for instance, where the emperor
claims to rule by divine right, and where
women are especially subordinate to men
socially, industrially and politically,there are
eight women colonels, all of whom draw
their pay regularly, namely, the empress of
Germany, the dowager empress, the
Princess Frederick Charles of Prussia, the
Queen Regent Sophia, Queen Wilhelmina
of the Netherlands, the Duchess of Con-
naught, the Duchess of Edinburg and
Queen Victoria.
	In Massachusetts, three of the brightest
opponents of woman suffrage have been
women intensely interested and active in
politics: one a member of the State Board
of Charities, who is supposed to have de-
feated Governor Butler’s re-election, one
an expert and successful lobbyist, and one
who is the author of a very popular politi-
cal handbook. They think it womanly to
hold office and instruct men how to vote,
but unwomanly to vote in person. Alas
for human inconsistency!—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

	(To the memory of my Dear Friend Sister
Eliza C. Binder who departed this life at her
home Salt Lake City, March 26th, 1894, aged
61 years 2 months and 15 days.)
	MUCH sympathy was felt and many hearts
mourned her loss for she was well and very favor-
ably known through all the vales of Utah. The
family have kept open house for years at con-
ference times, and other public occasions, scores
find in their hospitable home a hearty welcome
awaiting them.
	I have visited the home since her demise, and
the same kind spirit pervades it, though her
room looks deserted,and her chair at the table is
vacant. “I feel that her sweet spirit like the per-
fume of long faded flowers, still broods over her
home with its love giving powers.”
	Sister Binder was a second mother to me, her
heart overflowed with maternal love,the sorrow of
her life was she never had a child of her own
The word mother whether lisped by the faltering
babe or the grown man, always brought a thrill
to her heart and a tear to her eye.
	She never missed an opportunity of testifying
to the truths of the Gospel, it was her delight to
converse upon and study its principles. She
looked anxiously forward to the evening when
the day’s duty ended and the family could gather
in her room, and talk upon the principles of sal-
vation. She was the pink of neatness,and ever
studied to make her room and person attractive.
She was swift to rebuke wrong and equally so to
approve the right, she received celestial marriage
and did in that principle what few women could
have done. She possessed great charity and car-
ried a heavenly influence with her, her sympathy
for the needy was substantial and she ever exerted
herself to relieve distress.
	The last winter of her life she undertook to
raise money to assist in paying the taxes of a
worthy sister who is alone in the world, though
she met many rebuffs and discouragements, she
succeeded in raising the necessary amount
	Her journey across the plains in the "Hand
cart company of 1856”is full of touching incidents


She with her husband have been members of the
Old Folks Committee for years and it was a great
pleasure for her to work for the comfort of all.
	Sister Binder was original, she leaves a void in
the community, but especially do I sympathize
with Brother Binder and his untiring companion
who have ever done all in their power to make
life sweet to her, especially through the many
years of her bodily suffering; no remorse is
mingled with their sorrow. I have visited her
grave in the silent city, which they two keep
green with freshly culled flowers. She was very
tender to the sufferings of others, but courageous
in her own, the Obituary Notes in the News and
Herald, at the time were much appreciated but
it would take a book to tell of her goodness and
kindness. I often wish that such as she could be
sent to this earth as ministering angels, to comfort
those who are passing through ordeals; but we
have the life of our Savior before us and we
should be satisfied with this, and the conscious-
ness, that we are striving for the plaudit, we feel
sure she has received. “Well done thou good
and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of thy
Lord.”
	We all miss her, but my deepest sympathy rests
with her bereaved husband, they were so devoted
to each other and so congenial for over forty
years. She was indeed, “A True Wife.”
	"His home she entered there to be a light,
	Shining within when all without was night,
	A guardian angel o’er his life presiding
	Doubling his pleasure, and his cares dividing
	Winning him back when mingling in the throng,
	From a vain world, we love alas too long,
	To fireside happiness and hours of ease.
	Blessed with that charm the certainty to please
	How oft her eyes read his, her gentle mind
	To all his wishes, all his thoughts inclined
	Still subject ever on the watch to borrow
	Mirth from his mirth and sorrow from his sor-
		row
EMILY G. CLUFF.
Provo City.


OBITUARY.

	DIED at Draper Sep. 5th, 1894, Catharine Smith
wife of Absalom W. Smith, deceased was born
at Carston, Lincolnshire, England, Jan. 29th,
1821. She leaves four children, two sons, and
two daughters to mourn her loss. She was
chosen President of the Primary Association
when it was first organized in Draper over
fifteen years ago which office she held until her
death.
	She has also been associated with the Relief
Society since its first organization and held office
as teacher and counselor, until she was chosen
President of the Draper Ward Relief Society,
Sep. 11th, 1885. She was a true and consistent
Latter-day Saint in works as well as words, be-
loved by all and always valiant for the truth, and
has now passed to the great beyond to mingle
with the loved ones, and enjoy the reward of the
righteous.
	Through all her life she scattered flowers,
		Of love and sweetest smiles around
	She’s dwelling now in heavenly bowers,
		Where only love and joy are found.
KATE SANDERS, Ass’t. Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
	DIED Sep. 24th, 1894, in Morgan City, Utah.
Sister Harriet Nash Welch, wife of Thomas R.
G. Welch, at the age of sixty-three. Deceased
was born at Horstedkairns, Sussex, England,
April 17th, 1831. She embraced the Gospel in
Brighton, where she was baptized by Elder
James Pitman, Oct. 1st, 1853.
	In August 1835, she was married
to Thomas R. G. Welch, to whom she bore nine
children, six of them, one daughter and five sons,
survive her. Also twenty-seven grand-children.
Her hopes were centered on Zion, and she with
her husband and babe, sailed from Liverpool,
March 28th, 1857; arrived in Salt Lake City
September 12th, the same year, coming by Boston,
Iowa City, Florence, and over the dreary desert
plains. Went South on the advent of Johnston's
army, and returned to Salt Lake City in the
Spring of 1860. Brother and Sister Welch, re-
moved to Morgan County in the fall of 1860.
In 1879 Sister Welch was called, by Sister E. R.
Snow Smith, to preside over the Primary Associa-
tion of South Morgan Ward. She was then a
teacher in the Relief Society, but did not resign
the trust. The following year she was called to
preside over the Primaries throughout this Stake,
which office she filled earnestly and faithfully, un-


til the Lord called her home. Of late years, she
suffered a great deal, but her faith was great, and
she rallied time after time, to continue her great
work, for the living and the dead. Her love and
sympathy drew the children around her.
	To the funeral, which took place the 27th, of
September, 1894, the little girls of the Primaries,
of this Stake, came dressed in white to follow
the remains of their beloved President. The
hall was thronged. The choir sang deceased’s
favorite hymns: “How firm a foundation” and
“O, my Father Thou that dwellest,” after which
the Presidency of the Stake, father Robert Hogg
and others spoke of the good works and integrity
of the departed. The Primary children sang,
“Gather them into the fold,” and sorrowing
relatives, friends and neighbors looked once more
on the remains of our Sister who has gone be-
fore us.
							E. C. E. F.
Morgan, Oct. 1st, 1894.


DR ELLIS R. SHIPP, 
WILL OPEN HER
School in Obstetrics and Nursing,
	MONDAY, OCTOBER 8th, 1894.
FOR PARTICULARS, COMMUNICATE IN PERSON OR BY LETTER.
Zo. 18 Main St, 	- 	Salt Lake City
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
			Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping do[--] to order. But'
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. G[unreadable] Bro. S[-]able
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her next class
	in Obstetrics and Nursing
		on Wednesday, Oct. 10.
ADDRESS, 34 EAST FIFTH SOUTH. TELEPHONE 383.
R.K. THOMAS
	26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
		The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS
		SALT LAKE SCHOOL OF
			OBSTETRICS.
	The winter term of this school will com-
mence Oct. 9th, 1894, and will continue
for twenty weeks. The instruction will
embrace a thorough cause in Midwifery and
nursing in which the student will be pre-
pared for practical work Tuition ten dollars
the necessary book six dollars.
	Address Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp, 34 S. 7th,
East Street, for any information desired.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
