VOL. 23. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1 AND 15, 1895.		No. 13—14


CONTENTS: 
	Speak No Ill—L. M. W. Ignorance And
Superstition—Phoebe C. Young. Ladies’ Semi
monthly Meeting—L. D. Alder. U. W. P. C.
Birthday Party—Lydia D. Alder. The General
Relief Society Conference—E. B. Wells. Wo-
man’s National Council—Rachel Foster Avery.
Macbeth—Gladys Woodmansee. Musings—Ida
Haag. R. S. Reports. Woman Suffrage Column.
Notes And News. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Miss Phoebe Couzins. The
National Council of Women. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—The Year Is New—Edson B. Russell.
New Years'—E. R. Shipp.


THE YEAR IS NEW.

[Inscribed to my wife.]
Dearest; the year is new,
And the roses silent sleep,
But the hearts that are most true
All their vows of love will keep,
	Though snows are deep,
	Still, love will keep.
Though the roses fade and wither,
Love survives the stormy weather,
And its fires still keep burning,
And the soul renews its yearning
Howsoe’er the seasons run.
Dearest; the year is new
And its harvests are to grow,
We are drinking of life’s rue,
Barren fields, in pain we sow,
	Yet, green will grow
	The fields we sow,
Not in vain this painful sowing,
For, the seed in silence growing.
Bursts anon its gloomy prison,
And—as other forms have risen—
Thus, puts forth the flower and fruit.
Dearest; the year is new,
But its music now is slow,
Soon will shake the honey—dew
From the summer’s loaded bough,
	From world of gloom
	To world of bloom,
Thus, the miracle of living
Comes by what the soul is giving,
Love, its winter-vigils keeping
Prophesies a joyful reaping,
And fulfills its holy trust.
		EDSON B. RUSSELL. 		Ex


[Column 1]
SPEAK NO ILL.

		“Then speak no ill, but lenient be
		To other’s failings as your own,
		If your the first a fault to see
		Be not the first to make it known.”
	MY first recollection of the above lines
dates back to the time when I, as a child, 
sat on my father’s knee, in the twilight,
listening to the voices of my parents as they
blended in song; and whenever this song
was the chosen theme, my heart would beat 
in unison with its sentiments, and my soul
be filled with an earnest desire that as I.
grew in years I might be able to obey its
precepts, and put in practice the beautiful
lesson which the lines contained. And al-
though I have, no doubt, failed many times
to live up to my youthful ambition in this
respect, yet, in moments of temptation

[Column 2]
these words have often-times served as a
monitor to silence, thoughts of unkind
criticism that might otherwise have found
expression, and although I have never
known the author’s name, I have always
considered them, words of inspiration.
	What a different state of affairs would be
in existence. if we were as diligent in our
endeavors to discover and make known the
virtues mankind are in posession of, as we
are to find out and proclaim their failings.
	It is one of the mysteries that remain to be
solved why we should take so much pleasure
in circulating reports that are detrimental to
anothers character; for we not only mark
an injury to others by so doing but act det-
rimentally to our own interests, by limit-
ing our circle of friends; and also deprive
ourselves of the sense of satisfaction and
self-approval which always accompanies a
good act—and surely there are few things
more commendable than holding sacred the
reputation of a brother or sister; for a good
name is among the priceless possessions of
this life. In our judgment of others we
should take into consideration the fact that
the inhabitants of the earth are not supposed
to be perfect beings, but were sent here on
a probationary mission, with a view to per-
fection sometime in the future; so it should
not be surprising if in studying the les-
sons of life, and striving to put them into
practice, mistakes are made by the pupils,
but it should be a matter of surprise that
these mistakes should be heralded abroad,
and enlarged and commented upon, as
though they were unpardonable, by those
who are co-laborers in the same school,
subject to, and oftentimes overcome, by the
same obstacles. The failnre to recognize
our own imperfections is one of the chief
causes of our finding so much fault with
others, for, were we fully convinced of our
own short-comings, and the ‘beam’ removed
from our own eye, we would sense to a
greater degree the inconsistency of critcizing
the mistakes of other people while we are
so far removed from perfection ourselves.
	If we will institute a thorough and can-
did investigation of ourselves, there is no
doubt but the result will prove a profitable
one; it may reveal to our view some traits
in our character that we were not aware of,
and impress us with the necessity of a
speedy reformation, and if so we will feel
more lenient towards the failings of others,
and not so anxious to make them known,
but will, “speak of all the best we can.’’
						L. M. W.


[Column 1]
IGNORANCE AND SUPERSTITION.

VERSUS REFORM AND PROGRESS.

	HEARING a remark made the other day
that ignorance and superstition had caused
more sorrow in the world than pride and
ambition; I was led to reflect upon the sub-
ject, and to say, ignorance and superstition
are greater evils than pride and ambition,
for although excessive pride is a sin, and
one of the evils to which our human
nature is subject, it is a term that is often

[Column 2]
misused and applied to true merit wrong-
fully, and is oftener found to be a trait of
the ignorant than of those who possess
true knowledge, for whereas ignorance is
apt to be puffed up at trifles the possession
of true knowledge is willing to sit at the
feet of the wise and be instructed.
	Ignorance and superstition walk amid
the dark places of the earth with cruelty
for their handmaiden, while ambition and
progress counts the light of the sun and
says I will break these bonds of ignorance
and superstition that enrivon me. There
is a stirring of a spirit within me that
teaches me, I am made for better things;
I will try my powers, I will trust my bark
on unknown seas; perchance I shall find
help, ‘tis ignorance and superstition that
prompts the mother to sacrifice her
children to the monster of the Nile, and
others to cast the infants from their bosom
beneath the cars of their monstrous idols;
the widows of India to prostrate them-
selves upon the burning pile that they
may be consumed with the dead bodies of
their husbands, and the poor islanders to
perform their ghastly rites, prompting the
untaught Indian to offer sacrifice to the
sun, and to slay the follower of the dead
that he may accompany his chief to the
happy hunting ground.
	But alas! we need not look among
heathen nations alone to find the apathy of
ignorance or the cruelty of superstition; it
exists today amid our great cities and in
our rural districts. should we go back to
the middle or what is called the dark ages,
what a picture would be presented to our
view; a time when ignorance was declared
to be the mother of devastation; and supersti-
tion held the minds of the people in iron
bands; a time when to make a discovery in
science or to proclaim a new idea respecting
the great father and His dealings with His
children was said to be the work of Satan;
and the axe of the headsman and the stake
were always ready for the victim. Oh! the
cruelty of superstition. How it filled all
France with gashed and mutilated bodies,
and how the fair land ran with blood in
the year 1512 at the massacre of St. Bar-
tholomew the result of a conspiracy be-
tween the so-called vicar of Christ Philip
the 11th, with Charles the ninth and his
mother Catharine DeMedici. And how in
the year sixteen hundred Giardauns Rouno
for asserting the rotatory motion of the
earth was tried and convicted of heresy
and burned at the stake by order of Cle-
ment the VIII, while the priests who
burned him fell upon their knees and
prayed God to continue the good work in
hell. Bruno suffered, but the earth
continued to move: in its orbit notwith-
standing ignorance and superstition decided
it could not move so it was with the first
inventor of type in-printing who had to
flee by night to escape a similar doom;
ignorance and superstition asserting, that
such wonders could only be the work of
the devil. Ones so it has even been ignor-
ance and superstition against Reform and
Progress.
	Ignorance sits at home by the light of a


[Column 1]
dim candle glancing fearfully into the
shadows. Superstition creeps to his side
and soon he imagines he sees shapes of
horror. Superstition comes yet closer and
whispers in his ear, and he hears voices
and sounds of terror in every rustleing
curtain, or creaking board even a little
mouse cannot stir but he thinks it must be
a messenger of evil; he sits shivering,
creeps to his bed covering beneath the
clothing, till at last sleep mercifully steeps
his senses in oblivion.
	Ambition says, “I will rouse myself and
walk abroad I will go among noble men
and brave women, I will visit lighted halls,
I will listen to the strains of sweet music,
or to the voice of the lecturer who will
unfold to my understanding the wonders of
science; or perhaps I will hear the traveler
whose desire for knowledge has led to visit
other lands, and he will tell of dangers
braved and difficulties overcome, or of the
wondrous works of nature in other climes,
and my spirit will be stirred to emulation,
and my heart will be led from nature unto
nature’s God, for I know that His hand is
over all His works.
	Ignorance says, “All things remain as
they were from the beginning until now a
wooden plow was good enough for our
grandfathers, and it is good enough for us,
our forefathers ploughed their fields with
oxen and threshed their grain with a flail
and it is good enough for us.”
	What is the use of all these new fangled
inventions that are turning the world up-
side down?
	Intelligence and progress say, “We will
build railroads, we will invent telegraphy,
whereby we can almost annihilate time and
space. Write the continents and converse
from ocean to ocean; we will learn to con-
vey sound, so that friends however distant
can speak to one another as though stand-
ing face to face; we will chain the lightn-
ing and make it subservient to the will of
man; we will count the stars and learn to
predict the times and seasons of the
planets; we will measure the circumference
of the earth and sound the depths of the
sea; with energy and perseverance we will
see what man can do with the intelligence
God has given him and for which he will
be called to give an account; for it is God
who giveth wisdom to man and he has
said; “Happy is the man that findeth wis-
dom length of days in her right hand
and in her left hand riches and honor; then
down driveling starveling ignorance,
avaunt; thou hydra-headed pale spectre
superstition; onward men of ambition raise
the standard of progress and of right; and
oh ye women of the nineteenth century sit
no longer in ignorance; throw off the soul-
paralyzing influence of superstition and
rise up in the strength of your womanhood
and of the intellect that God has given you;
cultivate your intellect from the sources of
all true knowledge and use it for the up-
lifting and onward progress of the human
race; be prepared to stand shoulder to
shoulder with man to forward every great
enterprise that has for its object the eleva-
tion of mankind and the amelioration of
the sorrows of suffering humanity.
	Let not woman fear that she is over-
stepping the bounds prescribed by the
Great Creator as the proper sphere of
woman, for she was in the beginning creat-
ed a helpmate for man and who will dare
affirm she is out of place, because she
shares his ambition and desires to assist in
all great and worthy enterprises.

[Column 2]
	Nor need she fear the scoffs of ignor-
ance or the benumbing influence of super-
stition that sit in their dark corners and
sneer at what they cannot understand and
say that woman must be unsexed if she
take up her pen to write upon the momen-
tous questions of the day, and her voice is
heard proclaiming from the stand the time
has come when the death blow must be
given to ignorance and superstition, when
both men and women must stand forth in
the light of progress and work together to
that end; and she is no less a wife and
mother, for God and nature fixed the
balance of the sexes and man will even
hold an influence over woman and woman
over man, God and nature have so ordained
it.
	This is also true in regard to mother-
hood. The mother’s love is strong in a
woman’s heart and she cannot forget the
child she nourished at her breast, even un-
to old age, but follows her children with
her love and sympathy through all the
vicissitudes of life, if she could shield
them and suffer in their stead, how often
would she gladly do so.
	If a mother does forget her sucking child
it is through some monstrous perversion of
nature’s laws or of the laws of society; the
more enlightened women become, and the
greater degree of elevation they attain,
the more anxious they will be to direct the
ambition of their sons into such channels
that will not only lead them to climb to
heights of learning, or perhaps to become
one of the great inventors, or artists of the
day; but to that greater knowledge and
understanding that will reach beyond this
transitory state of existancs and fit them
for the endless ages of eternity.
	And oh, ye youth of this much favored
land think not to make the excuse of
ignorance it will no longer be accepted.
This is the golden age of opportunity; hold
not back and think there is nothing left
for you to do; rouse yourselves and look
around you; there are fresh hills for you to
climb; there are new discoveries for you to
make; there is work for you to do.
	Ignorance and superstition are not dead;
gird on your armour and do battle with
them; work while it is called today; never
mind the vices and allurements of the world
if you would play your part well you will
have no time for them, but will shun and
pity them.
	“Honor and shame from no condition rise,
Act well thy part there all the honor lies.”
Set your mark high and live for it, learn to
be true men and true women; oppose ignor-
ance with true knowledge and throw the
light of revelation and truth upon super-
stition.		PHOEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-monthly Meeting,
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall Dec.
29th, 1894. Counselor Elizabeth Webb
presiding. Meeting opened by singing,
"All hail the Glorious Day." Prayer by
Counselor E. Stevenson. Continued by
singing "Welcome best of all good meet-
ings"
	Sister Vilate Young, the Secretary, being
absent, Counselor Webb called on Sister
Lydia D. Alder to act as secretary of the
meeting.
	Counselor E. Webb in her remarks
wished all a Happy New Year, and said,
"Let us not only make good resolutions for

[Column 2]
the coming year, but let us carry them out,
and live for the Gospel. Let us love one
another more than we have in the past."
Gave other good and timely counsel.
	President Z. D. H. Young said, "I often
think a good work done, is better than
commenced. We should be interested for
the living and the dead. No dispensation
that has ever dawned on the world has had
so great a responsibility resting upon it, as
ours. Only think of the affinity between
the dead and us. They are looking to us
for deliverance. Shall we not help them?
Sisters stimulate the young people to do
right but do not try to cover them.
	In our coming together think of the
power of the anointing. we are blessed
throughout all our generations, the promise
is to us, and if your children go astray,
when they have paid the penalty, they
must come back. Let us comfort the er-
ring. We are blessed above all other
people. Think of it, our associations will
last throughout eternity. Let us all bear
testimony today. Make this a testimony
meeting in very deed. Commence here and
every one arise in turn and speak if only a
few words. The last time Joseph spoke
they held an umbrella over him, for it was
raining. Yet those that would come
heard him, and those who did not, never
heard him again. So it is to day. Though
dark and stormy, yet those who will come,
will have the blessing. We have no lease
on our lives, we may never all meet here
again. But our testimonies will stand,
God bless you sisters.
	Sister Julia Samson, bore an excellent
testimony, and expressed an earnest desire
to continue faithful. Sister Lillie Tall
expressed the same desires and bore testi-
mony. Sister Ann Wheeler followed
testifying to the truth of the Gospel.
Sister Longmore and Sister Mary E. Bas-
sett each bore a true and faithful testimony.
Sister Jane James, knew her Father in
Heaven loved her and blessed her beyond
measure. Concluded by speaking in
tongues. Interpretation given by President
Z. D. H. Young.
	Sisters Sperry, Bullock, Hardman,
Stanley, Clark and many other sisters
present, each spoke as the spirit gave ut-
terance, all desiring to be faithful to the end
of life.
	Sisters Rawlinson, Smith, Howe and Sil-
ver followed with faithful testimonies.
	Counselor E. Stevenson prayed that the
good Spirit might rest on the sisters who do
not meet with us. Spoke of the poor of
God’s children and gave much good counsel.
	Sisters Hill, Chamberlain and Hardy
spoke of the loving kindness of God to
them. Also Sister Sperry and every other
sister in the congregation. A young brother
who had come with his mother, also stood
up and gave a few words of testimony.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, spoke of the good
gifts that the Redeemer gave to men when
He assended on high, testified that all the
faithful would meet in the great and glor-
ious day, that we would know each other
there, and would be satisfied with the good
gifts, that our Father would give to all his
faithful children.
	Counselor E. Webb made a few closing
remarks and added her blessing to every
soul present. Meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Sang the Doxology. Benediction,
President Z. D. H. Young.
	L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NEW YEAR’S.

O FATHER, give to us this day and all the year,
Thy Holy Spirit, peace, good-will, and happy
	cheer!
Accept our humble hearts o’er flowing gratitude
For all thy gracious gifts, and tender care so good:
For life, and health, and strength, we thank thee
	Father kind
For vigor we possess in body and in mind.
We thank thee too for friendship’s made ’neath
	rosy bowers,
For ambient air, for nature’s songs and flowers
And even too for pains and cares, and winter’s
	snows,
For every prosperous tide, and adverse wind that
	blows. 
For with the painful thorns each humble heart
	will find
Bright fragrant flowers,and blessings intertwined.
For heart, and mental tempests, just as winter
	storms, 
Prepares the soil to bloom with more perfected
	charms.
If we but faithful prove and patiently endure,
We will rejoice at last our recompense is sure.
For every pang we feel will elevate the soul,
And lead our wayward feet to Heaven’s happy
	goal.
Oh, Father! more than all we thank thee for
	the sight.
That’s dawned in this last age to guide thy people
	right,
To e’en prove worthy of the knowledge we
	possess, 
And ever true and faithful; Oh, Father aid and
	bless!
O give us strength and wisdom let thy Holy
	Spirit guide
And lead us in that narrow path where we may
	safe abide.
							E. R. SHIPP.


U.W. P. CLUB.

	THE regular meeting of the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club was held at Dr. Shipp’s,
Dec. 29th, 1894. It was an interesting and
well attended session. Besides a goodly at-
tended session. Besides a goodly atten-
dance of members there were present the
Hon. Phoebe Couzins, of St. Louis, and a
number of reporters who took notes.
	President E. R. Shipp was in the chair.
Opened with prayer by President Lucy A.
Clark, of Davis Co. The members res-
ponded with sentiments from Tennyson.
Laura Hyde gave a very creditable paper on
the life and works of the same great poet
recitation by C. Louise Boyden and song by
Maude Pratt.
	The Hon. Phoebe Couzins then gave an
interesting address on Woman’s Rights.
Also related some interesting reminiscenses
of the late silver troubles and campaign in
Colorado. The remainder of the evening
was devoted to refreshments and conver-
sation. Meeting adjourned to Jan. 15th,
1895, prayer by Dr. E. B. Ferguson.
			OLEA SHIPP, Asst. Sec.

	The Utah Woman’s Press Club met as
per adjournment at the office of Dr. E. R.
Shipp, Tuesday evening, Jan. 15, 1895, at
7-30 p. m.
	The president in the chair. Open-
ing prayer by Honorary president, Mrs. E. 
B. Wells. Members responded to roll-call
by sentiments from different authors.
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved with one amendment.
	The constitution and by-laws were then


read by the secretary, Then each by-law
was read separately, with amendments in
some cases, and voted upon. The Consti
tution remains the same as at first. The
by-laws, with a few changes, remain as be-
fore, and are now as follows.


BY-LAWS.

UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
ARTICLE I.
	Par. 1. A regular meeting of the club
shall be held at the EXPONENT parlor on
the last day of each month; unless the date
or place of meeting be changed by a two-
thirds vote of the members present at any
regular meeting.
	Par. 2. An intermediate meeting may
be held during the month if the club so
decide.
	Par. 3. The October meeting of each
year shall be the annual meeting. At this
meeting officers shall be elected for ensuing
year.

ARTICLE II.
	Par. 1. Applications for membership
may be presented in writing or by a mem-
ber of the club. After the approval of the
credential committee the applicant may be
received by a majority vote and of the
members present. Membership fee one
dollar.

ARTICLE III.
	Par. 1. Annual dues shall be one dol-
lar payable in October and become delinquent
sixty days after the annual meeting.
	Par. 2. No member whose dues are
not paid, shall be entitled to vote, unless by
consent of a majority of the members
present.
	Par. 3. Every appointee of the regular
programme who fails to fulfill the part as-
signed her shall be fined ten cents.

ARTICLE IV.
   	Par. 1. Honorary members, the num-
ber not to exceed five, may be elected by
unanimous vote of the club.
	
ARTICLE V.
	Members may bring friends to meeting,
no one visitor however shall be allowed to
attend more than three meeting during the
year.

ARTICLE VI—Quorum.
	Any presiding officer together with three
regular members shall constitute a quorum
to do business at any regular meeting.

ARTICLE VII.
	All meetings shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with parliamentary law. The
Woman’s Manual of Parliamentary Law, by
Harriet R. Shattuck shall be authority.

ARTICLE VIII.
	The by-laws may be amended at any
regular meeting by a two thirds majority
vote of members present notice having
been given at a previous meeting.

	The term of the program committee hav-
ing expired by limitation, a new com-
mittee was appointed as follows. Chairman
Lizzie Shipp. Assistants Caroline C. R.
Wells, and Laura Hyde. Hattie B. Har-
ker and Rebecca H. Doolan were admitted
members of the club, by unanimous vote.
	An interesting and instructive original
p[---] on Indian Mythology was given by
Sinthia D[--]inson. Caroline C. R. Wells
gave current events.
	Program for next meeting—Paper on
Emerson, by Nellie C. Taylor. Paper on
Rubenstein by Dr. R. B. Ferguson and
music from the same composer by Maude
Pratt. Paper by Mary A. Freeze. Meet-
ing adjourned to Jan. 31st, by Dr. Lizzie
Shipp.
			Lizzie S. Wilcox, Rec. Sec.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	ON Friday Dec. 7, 1894, our honored and
loved, Sister Elizabeth Webb, Connselor to
President M. I. Horne in the 14th Ward
meetings, reached the sixty-eighth milestone
on her journey of life.
	The occasion was made a time of rejoic-
ings by her daughters, who engaged in a
little conspiracy, and had many of their
mother’s friends invited, to their sister Mrs.
Rowe’s pleasant and hospitable home, with-
out her knowledge.
	Sister Webb was quite overcome when
the truth dawned upon her. But when the
dining room was thrown open, she was her
gracious self and invited the large company
to be seated at the table, which was groan-
ing beneath the bounties of earth. After
quite a pleasant sojourn there, we returned
to the handsome parlors.
	By request of Sister Webb, the party con-
vened into a little meeting. 
	Brother E. Stevenson presided, and spoke
words of esteem and respect for the lady
in whose honor we had met. Also bore
testimony of the truth of the Gospel, and
many great and glorious prophecies whose
fulfillment was right at the door. Presi-
dent Z. D. H. Young, and Counselor
Bathsheba Smith, President M. Isabella
Horne, Counselor E. Stevenson, Julia C.
Howe, Eydia D. Alder, spoke in terms of
love and esteem as fellow workers with Sister
Webb.
	Also many old friends and neighbors,
vied with each other in paying honor to
her.
	All bore testimony to her beautiful ap-
pearance in the Temple and of her good labors
there. Sister Lucy W. Kimball particularly
spoke of this, and added her blessing to
her. The gifts of the Spirit were poured
out, and it was indeed a season of rejoicing,
long to be remembered.
	After a benediction by Patriarch Joseph
Howe, the company dispersed, all wishing
Sister Webb many more birthdays, as hap-
py as this one and desiring her to live as
long as life was sweet. Her husband
was also the recipent of many good
wishes. Great praise it due her daughters
for their kindness, and thoughtfulness.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


THE twenty-sixth anniversary of the
Edinburgh National Society of Woman’s
Suffrage has just been celebrated. Scot-
land proudly claims the honor of having
first caught inspiration from John Stuart
Mill, for before the London Committee was
formed, Miss Craig, of Edinburgh, had
issued the first petition in favor of Mr.
Mill’s bill in the House of Commons


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		-		Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 1 AND 15, 1895.


[Column 1]
MISS PHŒBE COUZINS.

	MISS PHŒBE COUZINS of St. Louis,
distinguished lawyer and lecturer, and at
one time United States Marshal of the
Eastern District of Missouri, (serving out
her father’s term after his decease,) has
been for some weeks in our city at the
Templeton Hotel. Miss Couzins is ac-
companied by her brother, who is like her-
self a sort of semi-invalid, and as they are
the only two left of the family, they like
to keep together as much as possible.
	Miss Couzins who is much broken down
in health came here with the idea of try-
ing our celebrated hot springs for rheuma-
tism, but up to this time has not availed
herself of the opportunity, fearing the cold
frosty air might not be beneficial after a
bath of that kind.
	After Miss Couzins graduated from the
high school of her native city she chose the
law as a profession, her application for ad-
mission to the Washington university in
St. Louis in 1869 was granted without a
dissenting voice; she was an earnest student
while there, and was graduated with honor
in 1871, when a public dinner was given to
celebrate the event.
	She has been admitted to practice in all
the courts of Missouri, the United States
District Court, and in the courts of Kansas
and Utah; she was the first woman in the
United States appointed to a Federal ex-
ecutive office, receiving her commission
from Justice Miller. She has twice been
appointed Commissioner for the State of
Missouri on the National Board of Charities
and Corrrctions; superintendent of the Cen-
sus, Robert P. Potter, appointed her
manager of the division of mortgage in-
debtedness of the city of St. Louis.
	In July 1890 she was appointed Lady
Commissioner for Missouri on the World’s
Fair Board of Directors She is a very
strong character and is well-versed in
history as well as in the law and is familiar
with the great questions of the day and
holds very positive opinions of her own on
many general national subjects. Miss
Couzins entered the lecture field as an ad-
vocate of woman suffrage in 1876 and has
been quite celebrated for her brilliancy and
eloquence upon the public platform. Miss
Couzins has lectured in most of the large
cities of the United States and has a
national reputation as an easy fluent and
forcible speaker.
	In a recent campaign in Colorado she
took an active part and traveled through
the hills and canyons into the rural and
mining districts, speaking to small and

[Column 2]
large audiences as the case might be. Gov.
Waite of that state appointed her a dele-
gate to the Trans-Mississippi Congress in
St. Louis, and after the close of that Con-
gress she came on to Utah. She has very
graciously consented to speak here several
times to clubs of women, and has given
charming topics in her easy, graceful and
pleasing style.
	A public lecture “The Silver Conspir-
acy” was given in the new Grand Opera
house January 13th, the audience was not
large but very appreciative. On Tuesday
January 15, Miss Couzins spoke in Ogden
at the City Hall and afterwards during the
week to womens’ clubs and to the people
in Thomas’ Hall.
	In Ogden she was the guest of Mrs.
Hilliard which made her stay there very
pleasant.
	Miss Couzins gives her Salt Lake theater
lecture Sunday evening January 20th, sub-
ject, “The Pilgrim Mothers and Daughters
of the Cavaliers.


THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF
		WOMEN.

	THE Nationol Council of Women of the
United States is of far more importance
than it is generally considered even by
people of education and advanced modern
ideas of progression. It is a comparatively
new method of bringing into harmony
great national organizations, and is most
certainly calculated to broaden one’s
horizon of thoughts and opinions. But we
have not time just now to give the Coun-
cil idea, but we would like the women of
Utah of whatever faith they may be to
comprehend the great good to all by as-
sociating with women of other countries,
and maintain the only safe and sure policy
of being able to uphold and defend the
standard maintained by them at home
when coming in contact with women of
opposite and extraordinary views and
opinions.
	At the Triennial Council in Washington
D. C. opening on the 12th of February and
closing March [-]nd, 1895, the Utah
women will h[--]e a good opportunity for
representation [--]d indeed there seems to
have been a [--]ovidence in the way it has
all come abo[--], from such small beginnings.
	The Lord loves his daughters as well as
his sons, and he will aid them to accom-
plish the purposes designed for the redemp-
tion of woman and the blessing of hu-
manity in which they are so deeply interest-
ed through the natural love which is so
strong in the heart and soul of every true
woman.
	On Wednesday and on Thursday Feb.
20th, and 21st,—the President [--] each
the great organizations viz. the [---]nal
Woman’s Relief Society, and the Y. L. N.
M. I. A. will discuss important quesitons,
in the morning session, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young’s subject will be “The Need of Co-
operation of Men and Women in all Con-
ectional Work.” Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor,
“Women as directors in Boards of Educa-
tion.’’
	One evening each of the Presidents will
preside and make opening addresses. The
papers read in the N. W. R. S. will be
Heridity and Progressionism, (paper) Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp, “The Sixth Sense” (paper)
Sarah M. Kimball, “Forty Year’s in the
Valley of the Great Salt Lake” E. B.
Wells, “The Spirit of Reform Reduced to


Practice” L. S. Greene Richards, The Y.
L. N. M. I. A. Social Reform, (paper)
Martha H. Tingey, The Editorial Side of
Woman’s Education, Minnie J. Snow,
What is Modern Education doing for
American Girls, (paper) Susa Young Gates,
The Relative Importance of Preventative to
Corrective Work in Moral Reform.
	Besides these important meetings the
delegate from each of these Associations,
viz. R. S. and Y. L. will have thirty
minutes allowed to each for a report of work
from the commencement of the work down
to the present time.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ALTHOUGH the EXPONENT has from time
to time received many favorable notices in
other papers, and by letter from individuals,
it has not been customary to publish them.
At the present time however, it may not be
out of place for the sake of encourage-
ment to use some extracts from letters re-
cently received from literary friends who
are looking with interest towards Utah.
	One woman editor and correspondent
of foreign papers writes, “I enjoy your
paper very much, it seems as if your wo-
men lead a much better life than we have
where we are surrounded by so much sen-
sation and noise. I wish that I could come
there and then meet more of your women.”
	Another celebrated and reverent woman
with hair like snow, who has been foremost
in the field of reform for half a century and
more, says concerning our little paper. "It
interests and pleases me to see how active
are the women of Utah, and that they are
seeking advancement in different directions
and trying to make life worth living.” A
gentleman who resides in Washington
D.C. and is familar with newspapers and
politics as also with the grave questions of
the day writes. “You edit and publish a
neat and readable paper,” then he tells us
how fond he is of our poetry, in a very
complimentary way, and specially mentions
certain strong articles from our contributors.
	Another very prominent Washington
woman who spent some time in Utah, a
few years ago and is much interested in
our woman’s work wrote me recently,
	“I am always delighted to get your good
little paper—for it is so full of that which
tells of the earnest never-tiring lives of the
Mormon women, and I am right back in
Dear Old Utah, and breathe the fresh air
of her valleys as it comes from her grand
white-capped mountains, yes, I am for a
time really there, the picture is so vivid.”
	One English gentleman traveling for
pleasure and information through the
United States stated to a friend of ours that
the EXPONENT was the only paper he
had seen that he could read right through
without finding anything offensive. With
such comments from disinterested people
one would think our own sisters would
make an extra exertion to sustain the paper,
if only in view of the good it may do in
letting the world know the views and
opinions of the women of far-famed Utah.
	DURING the absence of the editor in
Atlanta and in Washington the office will
be in charge of her grand-daughter, Miss
Isabel Sears, who is thoroughly acquainted
with the work and competent to discharge
the duties of the office, will answer all
correspondence in relation to the business
of the paper, make collections receipt for
money, and such other business as may be
necessary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY
CONFERENCE.

	THE general conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city, Thursday, October 4th,
commencing at 10 a. m, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, the president of this great organiza-
tion, presiding. The attendance was large
from the outside stakes, and the reports were
excellent, showing marked improvement in
many directions, and increased interest in
the work of this benevolent society.
	The president made an appropriate and
motherly address of welcome, congratulat-
ing the sisters upon the prospeity that had
attended their labors in the past and the
hopeful outlook for the future. Referred to
the prophecies of Joseph Smith concerning
the society at its first organization, and that
many of his prophetic sayings at that time,
had already been fulfilled.
	Mrs. Ann G. Woodbury, in reporting St.
George Stake, made special mention of
sericulture, and the success this industry
might have in that locality if the people
would persevere in the enterprise. Sister
Hannah C. Bentley had raised this year 212
pounds of cocoons of good quality, and the
speaker felt that others could succeed as
well with the same energy and diligence,
for much had been done in past years, with
very little encouragement.
	Mrs. Ann Pulsipher gave a very satis-
factory report of the branches in Emery
Stake and said though they had not tried to
raise silk, they were exerting themselves to
establish a small woolen factory.
	Mrs. Mary Teasdale gave a most in-
teresting account of the sisters in Mexico,
they have six branches in that country, and
many difficulties to encounter unknown to
to us who live in the United States; they
are doing primitive work in carding and
spinning, and one ward is trying to make
some cloth, and another is engaged in dairy
work.
	The native sisters require much teaching
and the language has to be learned in order
to give them the necessary information, and
all this requires great patience aud persever-
ance, and one must have the desire to do
good to others to accomplish much towards
lifting them to a higher moral and spiritual
standard.
	Juab Stake was reported by Mrs. Rebecca
Udall, as the president, Mrs. Mary Pitcli-
forth, was not well enough to attend the
conference. Mrs. Udall bore a strong
testimony of the truth of the Gospel; said
she had joined the Church in France, her
native country, when only thirteen years
old upon her own responsibility, and like
many others she had left all for the Gospel’s
sake and rejoiced to be one among this
people.
	Mrs. Minerva W. Snow gave an excel-
lent report of Sanpete Stake and of the
diligence of the sisters in all the various
labors pertaining to the society, but especial-
ly in the efforts made to store up grain
against a day of famine.
	Mrs. Angeline Hinckely gave a pleasing
account of Millard Stake and Mrs. Ann E.
Leavitt, of Maricopa, Arizona, mentioned
the good work among the Lamanite sisters
in Papago ward, and that the Relief Society
had purchased a buggy and harness for the
president, who had for twelve years labored
almost constantly among these Indian sis-
ters; she also told of the Relief Society hall
built at Mesa City by the untiring energy

[Column 2]
of this noble band of members in that re-
mote locality; how the Lord had blessed
them in this, and that they were even stor-
ing some grain though it was really not a
grain country. What they have laid up is
sealed up in five gallon tin cans for that is
the only way it can be kept in that climate,
the speaker stated she had come 1,600 miles
to attend Conference.
	Mrs. Olivia Widerborg, in reporting Box
Elder Stake, made mention of the Scandina-
vian branch of the Relief Society in Brig-
ham City and the good work the sisters had
done in emigrating from Scandinavia fifty-
two persons. The reports from all the
Stakes were certainly encouraging and al-
most all were desirous of helping forward
home enterprises of various kinds. The
general teaching was in the line of home
work such as silk raising, straw braiding
and helping in whatever possible to advance
the prosperity of home manufactures and
institutions. The actual work the Relief
Society has accomplished as a whole is not
realized by those who are not familiar with
the details, and the many obstacles that
the sisters have to encounter especially in
localities remote from headquarters.
	It is impossible to mention all in a brief
notice but the objects and aims of the
Society being similar throughout, one can
judge of the work from the report of a few
of the Stakes; it was quite impossible even
though the speakers were brief to hear
from all though there were three sessions of
the Conference.
	The afternoon meeting was much more
numerously attended than the morning and
most of the time given to reports from far
off Stakes, which were very interesting; be-
sides the charitable and philanthropic work
demonstrated by the reports of the sisters,
it is noticeable that there is also a spiritual
growth and progress which is very gratify-
ing and without which the sisters could not
labor as they do for the uplifting of human-
ty.  At the close of the afternoon session
Sister M. Isabella Horne spoke in the gift
of tongues, the interpretation was given by
President Zina D. H. Young, the effect was
thrilling throughout the assembly, and the
meeting closed by singing that telling
hymn, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning,” which was in itself like a bene-
diction from on high.
	There was also an evening session similar
in character to the other meetings though a
little more time was devoted to general in-
struction from the president. Much regret
was expressed for the absence of Counselors
Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith,
who were not able to attend. Sister Rich-
ards on account of the illness of her sister,
and Sister Smith because of having had a
fall recently, which obliged her to remain at
home for the present, though the injury is
not serious. The spirit of the conference
throughout was excellent and must result
in great good to those who are engaged in
work of this great benevolent society which
is spreading its branches all around the world
and upon the islands of the sea, wherever
the Gospel is preached, and there are local
branches of the Church organized, there the
Relief Society becomes needful and is a help
and a blessing.
E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	To women working in lines of missionary
effort the first two days of the Triennial
of the National Council of Women at


Washington, D. C. will be of great interest.
	On the evening of the 18th of February
the time will be divided between the Wo-
man’s Foreign Missionary Union of Friends
and the National Free Baptist Woman’s
Missionary Society. This latter organiza-
tion is one of the very oldest of women’s
societies, having been organized in 1843.
It will be represented upon this occasion by
two of its ablest workers and speakers.—
Mrs. Frances Stewart Mosher upon “The
Ethical Adjustment of Woman’s Home and
Sociological Duties” and Mrs. Emeline
Burlingame Cheney upon Practical Christian
Living.”
	Mrs. Eliza C. Armstrong, who will speak
upon “The Relation of Religion to Public
Duties” is known among the Friends as one
of their very best speakers.
	Tuesday evening, February 19, will be
occupied by the Woman’s Centenary As-
sociation of the Universalist Church and by
the National Council of Jewish Women.
The Centenary is many years old, the
Council of Jewish Women is an outgrowth
of the World’s Congress of Representative
Women of the Exposition year.
	Rev. Lorenza Haynes (Universalist) will
give an address on “The Relation of Re-
ligion to Public Duties,” and “The Exact
Attitude of each of the Leading Religious
Denominations toward Woman’s Growing
Service in the Church" will be treated by a
speaker not yet decided upon.
	Some fine subjects are upon that part of
the program occupied by the Jewish Coun-
cil, namely “Social Obligations of Re-
ligions” by Miss Sadie American, Cor-
responding Secretary of the Council of
Jewish Women; “The Function of Women
in Religious Life” and “Greek and Hebrew
Genius-Influeuce on Christianity and
Civilization” by speakers whose names are
not yet announced.
	The Morning Sessions of these two days
will be equally interesting, the first being
given to the Formal Opening of the National
Council Triennial, Presentation of Delegates,
and Greetings of Fraternal Delegates from
associations not in membership in the Coun-
cil. Tuesday Morning will begin the ses-
sions in which the time will be largely given
to free discussion by the Members of the
Triennial, each subject for discussion being
presented formally in half hour address by a
specially invited speaker. The topics of
Tuesday are “The Influence of Women in
Bringing Religious Conviction to bear upon
Daily Life” presented by Mrs. Minnie D.
Louis, who spoke so acceptably at the
World’s Congress of Representative Wo-
men, and “Woman’s Mission to the Church
as Minister and Missionary” by Mrs. Eliza
C. Armstrong. Each of these topics will
be discussed for one hour, exclusive of the
time occupied by the main addresses
mentioned.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.


MRS. SUSAN B. ANTHONY and MRS.
CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT will hold a series
of meetings in the South, in advance of
the coming National Woman Suffrage Con-
vention at Atlanta. They will visit Lex-
ington and Louisville, Ky., Memphis,
Tenn., New Orleans, La,. Jackson. Miss.,
Birmingham, Ala., and other cities, in
each case by the invitation of the ladies in
that place. The tour of meetings will be-
gin with Lexington, Ky., on Jan. 9.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MACBETH.
	[From a psychological standpoint.]
	MACBETH—What unholy scenes, hor-
rifying thoughts, and ghastly spectacles are
presented to the mind by that one word.
	Imagination immediately produces the
weird scene of the witches, their fantastic
appearance as they whirl and gesticulate
around the seething caldron with its grue-
some contents; and in the presence of this
picture we can almost sense the fascination,
and feel the unhallowed influence of those
handmaids of the powers of darkness—
“those fiends who lie like truth.” From 
pure sympathy, we almost cease to wonder
that the superstitious Macbeth is for a
moment captivated by their strange in-
cantations.
	Then like a flash we are transported to 
the interior of the castle, we feel the excite-
ment which animates its little colony of in-
habitants, as the gracious word is received
and repeated from one to another. “The
King comes here to night!” For though
we had known the king only up to this
point, he had found favor in our sight, and
we feel that his most lordly subject might
be honored by this mark of trust and
friendliness.
	Now we are at the banquet and note the
suave manner, the very apparent courtesy
and thoughtfulness, extended towards the
king by his charming hostess and her lord.
We know what is in her mind since the
receipt of that peace disturbing letter from
Macbeth, and now follow him, as he seeks
an exit from the guest chamber, to
silently witness his escaping thoughts and
feeling. We are in a state of suspense as
we watch the workings of that mind.
Note the pros, and cons, the resolutions and
the dread, the superstitious faith, the honor-
able fear, as each is marshalled in full force
to try its power upon that mind. We hear
the pleading cry of kinship—the voice of
treachery—the whisperings of loyalty—
the tempting persuasion of ambition that
would force away to the throne. As in turn
each clamors for hearing and recognition.
	Towards the latter part of this intense
mental conflict our suspense is somewhat
relaxed. We believe that the better power
will secure the victory: and are about to
exclaim, hail! Thane of Cawdor! Greater
than a king! When Lady Macbeth enters,
throws discredit on the conquering hero,
while with a re-enforcment of evil agents
she begins the attack anew. And, though
Macbeth with dignity and seeming self as-
sertion meets her with, “We will proceed
no farther in this business, he hath honored
me of late, and I have bought golden
opinions of all sorts of people which would
be worn now in their nervest gloss, not
cast aside so soon.” Yet we feel that a
master spirit has taken posession, and the 
forces of the better part will be scattered, to
the four winds. The more powerful will of
Lady Macbeth has downed all argument,
has over come the weaker determination of
her lord. He now becomes but an irresolute
servant, waiting the command of her in-
domitable spirit.
	Ah! faltering Macbeth! Thou couldst
withstand the enticing voice of ambition,
the gilded allurings of that coveted pinnacle
of power. Thou couldst bid thy super-
stitious faith await a less speedy, a more
natural fulfillment; yet thou couldst not for
a moment brook the taunting tones of thy
wife.

[Column 2]
O! Woman! frail and accounted naught
in the marshalled ranks of politics and state;
truly thy power is behind the throne; and
thy responsibility is uncomputed, for the
deeds done by men.
	Our guide, imagination, now leads us to
the king’s chamber. How peacefully, how
trustfully he slumbers. His grooms, or
body guard, lying not far removed, are
stupefied and over come by wine; yet the
king is unconcerned for his person. He is
in the house of a friend, a kinsman, a
loyal subject.
		“Now over the one half world
Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
The curtained sleep:—witchcraft celebrate
Pale Hecates offering, and withered murder
Alarumed by his sentinel, the wolf, 
Whose howls his watch, thus with his stealthy
	pace,
With Tarquin’s ravishing strides, towards his
	design
Moves like a ghost. Thou sure and firm set
	earth,
Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
Thy very stones prate of my whereabouts,
And take the present horror from the time
Which now suits with it.”
	Macbeth enters, wearing a pale and
frightened look, as if he had just seen an
apparition. There is a nervous anxiety in
his movements, as if he were impelled by
an outward, rather than an inward force.
He siezes a dagger lying near by, and with
stealthy though trembling steps approaches
the couch of the king. His hand is palsied
by the thought of the dreadfulness of the
deed, augmented by the solemn weirdness
of the hour. But, the deed must be done,
there is now no retreating. He grasps the
deadly weapon with a firmer hold, and,
with a mighty effort throws off those guilty
fears, "Screws his courage to the sticking
point,” and with averted gaze, swiftly sends
the messenger of death to that trusting
heart.
	He is horrified at the ghastliness of the
spectacle, and an almost overpowering
sense of the ruin he has wrought is borne in
upon him. All sorts of ghostly fancies
crowd upon his fevered imagination, as he
stands half paralyzed, with the bloody dag-
ger in his hand. He hears the sleepers
laugh and cry murder; anon, they say their
prayers and pronounce amen, which he es-
saying cannot repeat. He becomes pain-
fully alert to every sound; even the screech
of the owl, the chirp of the cricket, his own
wife’s voice strikes terror to his guilty soul.
Anon he joins his wife, and still not wholly
reconciled to the deed, he wrings his gory
hands and says, “This is a sorry sight.”
Still in half frenzied dread, remorse,
imagination, he goes on repeating what he
fancied he heard a voice cry, “Sleep no
more!”
“Macbeth does murder sleep—the innocent sleep;
Sleep that knits up the raveled sleeve of care,
The death of each day’s life, sore labors bath.
Balm of hurt minds, great nature’s second course,
Chief nourisher in life’s feast.
Still it cried sleep no more! to all the house
Glamis hath murdered sleep; and therefore
	Cawdor
Shall sleep no more—Macbeth shall sleep no
	more!”
	O wretched mortal doomed to everlasting
torment by thine own act. That was a
wail from  the depths of hell! such as
might have been heard from the fallen
spirits, who, being cast down from heaven,
realized to the utmost the denseness of the
darkness to which they were consigned.
	O pitiful! pitiful! that weeping, and wail-
ing, and gnashing of teeth.

[Column 3]
“What hands are here! Ha! they pluck out mine
eyes!
Will all great Neptune’s Ocean wash this blood
Clean from my hand? No: this my hand will
	rather
The multitudinous seas incarnardine.
Making the green one red.”

	Note how that continuous knocking
startles him—blanches his cheek—and al-
most freezes up the flowing current of his
veins.

“To know my deed ’twere best not know myself
Wake Duncan with thy knocking! Ay. ’would
	thou couldst!’’

Good night! Adieu! remorseful spirit,
tomorrow’s sun will shine, upon an
adamantine soul, in place of thine!
	The night has sped, the mental conflict
has abated; remorse is silenced and cruelty
has usurped the throne of judgment.
	In this wise the intellect has reasoned.
The deed is done and cannot be undone.
Now to the removing of all obstacles that
may threaten, or obstruct the passage to the
throne. Down feeling! Up! will and intel-
lect!  “The eternal Jewel” is irrecoverably
lost, all is over with that, ambition now
holds undisputed sway, life is all that is
left. Fill up the chalice of power! Take
pleasure in the downfall of all who loathe
thee! Trample on the necks of all who
would oppose thee! Thy time is short,
but the witches have promised it shall be
full.
	Again, O Macbeth! like the fallen angels,
having made a hell for thyself, thou must
bend all thy energies to bring a like con-
dition on all who may be in thy power.
	The distardly deed is discovered, the
house-hold is thrown into confusion, all are
horrified and astounded. Macbeth and his
lady not a whit behind the rest in demon-
strations of grief. Indeed, he freely con-
fesses that his love for the king and great
sorrow at his taking off, compelled him in
the heat of passion to stab the two grooms
who he suspected had done the deed.
	The day moves on—He has now become
bold—He is king, and even his dauntless
wife would not now taunt him with the
paleness of his heart, did she peep into that
mind and note the resolutions there.
	Yet—Banquo is in the way; he has known
Macbeth’s ambition, he may suspect the
truth, besides, the witches hailed him
“father to a line of kings;”  He must be
dispatched, and that at once.  “Banquo,
thy souls flight, if it find heaven, must
find it out to night.”
	The feast is spread, the thanes are
gathered round, and the king speaks his re-
grets at the absence of Banquo: when up
rises the ghost of the missing thane and
sits in his murderer’s chair.
	Now note the terror! The freezeing fear
that assails him, even while he protests his
innocence. Note his assumed bravado,
his palsied attempts at threatening, but now
no sign of remorse. He fears no mortal,
he is not to be undone by any born of wo-
man. Ay, he is a bold man! “who dare
look on that which might appal the devil,”
yet this has undone him.
	The scene is changed. Malcolm and
Donalbain are scattered—Banquo is dis-
patched, and Macduff’s mission to England
has received due revenge in the slaughter
of his wife and babes, the confiscation of
his lands. Yet
"Foul whisperings are abroad: unnatural deeds
Do breed unnatural troubles;”


[column 1]
And, seated with the attainments of his 
ambitious ends, the king soliloquises thus:

	I have liv’d long enough: my way of life 
Is fall’n into the sear—the yellow leaf;
And that which should accompany old age
As honor, love, obedience, troops of friends,
I must not look to have; but in their stead
Curses, not loud, but deep; mouth honor, breath,
Which the poor would fain deny, but dare not,”

	Can we detect in this an undertone of re-
gret, a sigh for a misspent life—perverted
abilities? We might almost so interpret it.
Yet to all about him such weakness is un-
revealed: shelled in by a stern and unre-
lenting bearing.
	Word has just been brought, that the
English forces are nearing the castle. He
cannot doubt the purport of their visit; and 
has every reason to believe that the out- 
raged Scotts will need no urging to join
them against him. Yet his fears take
refuge behind the promise of the weird
sisters.

"Macbeth shall never vanquished be, until
Great Birnam Wood to high Dunsinane Hill
Shall come against him”
He determines to prove the firm founda-
 
tion of his faith in this promise, he calls his
retainers to arms to scour the country round,
and demanding his armour, says,
	I’ll fight till from my bones my flesh be
hacked,” calamities now come thick and
fast. Lady Macbeth is dead; and lo! Great
Birnman Wood moves towards Dunsinane,
	The thwarted spirit is almost undone, the
ill-gained power is well nigh broken. Yet
there is one more straw, to which the
drowning Macbeth clings.

"No man that’s born of woman shall e’er have
	power on thee.’’

	Again, the scene is changed, Macbeth is
captured, but still clings to the straw.
Young Siward has been slain in the hand
to hand conflict with him; and now
Macduff confronts him. Their eyes meet,
while before Macbeth, appears that cruel
picture, the murdered wife and babes. Ah!
well may he tremble and his courage for-
sake him at such a bloody sight.
"Get ye back,” he cries, ‘My soul is too much
Charged with blood of thine already! ’
Hear you that deep wail of remorse?
That cry of regret from the depths of a lost
soul?
	It is not fear that robs him of his wonted
valor, that disarms him in the presence of
this man. ’Tis his long outraged conscience
which reasserts a momentary power.
	Macduff’s soul burns for vengeance, he
longs to test his trusty sword upon this foul
despoiler of his happiness, and only scouts
this tardy penitence, even if he understands
it, and turns to taunt him with his coward-
ice.
	Stung by this taunt, Macbeth assumes his
leading roll—again takes refuge behind the
imagined charm upon his life. But being
speedily disenchanted by his eager antagonist
he finds all too late,
‘‘That juggling fiends are not to be believed,
That palter with us in a double sense
That keep the word of promise to our ear
And break it to our hope”
	He has no heart to fight with the much
injured Macduff; but he will not become a
willing subject for the jeers of the rabble he
has ruled.
	That brief moment of remorse is past—
and he has lost the last vestige of the faith
to which he clung, yet his challenged spirit
is again aroused—-
[column 2]
			“Lay on Macduff,
And damned be him who first cries, Hold!
	Enough!”
			GLADYS WOODMANSEB.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	231


MUSINGS.

	O STERN unrelentless fortune!  How
often, oh how often I had looked into thy 
face for one fond reassuring smile. How
often I had begged entreated for one pass-
ing look, but you passed me sternly by. 
	In the bitterness of my heart I upbraided
thee still with calm indifference you scorn-
fully gazed upon me; disdain was mingled
with your every look. 
	I saw fair fame standing on heights far,
far above me; thousands with perseverance
and energy for their guide steadily climbing
towards her; upon them beamed her warm-
est smile, I reached out my hand in entreaty
and supplication but Alas! She heeded me 
not.
	With jealous eye I fancied I saw an indif-
ferent look upon Hope's sweet, smilling
face.
	Days, months, and years passed by and 
still my soul writhed in deepest agony.
"A change came o'er the spirit of my
dreams.”
	Among the surging crowd came one with
noble presence, a beautiful woman plainly
dressed,  her only jewels, modesty and intel-
ligence.  The spirit of purity and truth 
were her safe guards.  A moment  she
gazed into my despairing face, approached
me and said pointing to the crowd, who
were climbing the tree of knowledge, some
with blushed faces and aching hearts and
others in whose flashing eye, "and I will con-
quer," seemed written in burning letters of 
fire.
	In silvery tones she asked, “Wouldst
thou be one of those brave sons and 
daughters so valiantly climbing the tree of
life?” To my burning words of grief and 
protestation in low, sad words she replied,
	‘‘Dost thou think for one moment that
one step can be gained, that fair fame can
ever be reached without first conquering 
thy self?  Hast thou been diligent? Hast
thou struggled to overcome a few of the 
many obstacles to be found in life’s path-
way? Be brave and struggle on.  Soon
she too passed along and soon I saw her 
one of the foremost of the busy workers.
	The words of Solomon rang in my ear
"Go to the ant thou sluggard: consider her
wasy and be wise.”
	I bent my head in shame as I bitterly
reflected on the time spent in idle regrets,
as I raised my eyes a messenger again a
messenger of peace stood before me 
his clothes were soiled with travel; stern-
ness mingled with love and truth were
stamped upon his kindly face, he seemed to
read my innermost soul and pointing to a 
beacon light which he held in his right
hand said, “see I have brought you light
and comfort if you will but obey the call
made upon you by your Father in Heaven;
believe in him.  If thou wilt but obey the 
still small voice within thee, every aspira-
tion of a noble and elevating character will
be in thy reach.  Does not everything poi nt
out God a being of intelligence?” As the 
truth of this glad message entered my
heart I looked around me in dazed wonder-
ment, all seemed so changed, Hope seemed 
smiling, all nature smiled.  I looked again
at the messenger and he as though divin-
ing my thoughts, in low gentle tones asked

[column 2]
“Is not the change in thee?” and then 
silently left me to my thoughts.  In the
language of the poet I bring my article to a
close.
“Who’er thinks a faultless face to see
Thinks what ne’er was ne’er is, nor e’er shall be
In every work regard the writer's end
Since none can compass more than they intend.”
						IDA HAAG.


R. S. REPORT.

STAR VALLEY STAKE.

	REPORT of the Relief Society Conference
of the Star Valley Stake, held at Afton,
Dec. 10th and 11th, 1894. Three good
meetings were held, the afternoon of the 11th
being occupied by the Primary. The sisters
were supported by the presence of Presi-
dent Osmond and his Counselor and Brother
Burton, also by Brother Cazier Stake
Patriarch. Bishop Waite of the Afton
Ward; Brother W. S. Muir, Jr. of Bounti-
ful, and several others of the leading breth-
ren of the ward.
	Home Industry, in the way of carding,
spinning, knitting and weaving was en-,
couraged by the brethren in their remarks,
and with the ideas advanced in relation to
the planting and caring for trees and small
fruits adapted to our climate are receiving
more or less attention all over the stake.
As a result of these teachings which have
obtained to some extent for two or three
years, several looms are in operation, and
the hum of the old-fashioned spinning-
wheel may be heard in a number of our
homes. The strawberry a plant that thrives
and yields well is being cultivated, and we
hope that ere long we may have plenty of
this delicious fruit, both in its season and to
put down for winter use.
	Favorable reports were heard from the
branches of the Society in four of the
wards; the other three wards not being
represented; the weather being unfavorable
for those living at a distance.
	President Kittie E. Dixon encouraged the
sisters to continue their labors, and strive
to meet all the requirements made of them
whether spiritual or temporal.
	Several of the sisters bore their testimonies
and a general good feeling prevailed during, 
the conference.
	The General and Stake Officers of the
Relief Society were unanimously sus-
tained. Sister Parsons second counselor to
Sister Dixon having moved out of the
stake Sister Johanna Cook was sustained to
fill the vacancy. Conference adjourned for
six months the second Monday in June. 
				LUCY E. CALL, Sec. 

		WAYNE STAKE. 

Relief Society Conference convened in
the Loa, R. S. Hall, Nov. 24th. 1894. After
opening exercises minutes of previous Con-
ference were read and approved.
	President Jane S. Coleman said she was
pleased to see so many present, prayed the
Spirit of God would dictate the speakers.
Spoke of the instructions given at the Gen-
eral Relief Society Conference and of the
duties of mothers, said they should teach
their children to fast and observe the duties ,
required of them. The Word of Wisdom,
storing of grain, mulberry growing and
many other good subjects were spoken up-
on.
 President Margaret Taylor reported the


Loa, R. S. in good condition, also bore a
faithful testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel. Lyman R. S. was reported doing well
by President Helen Maxfield.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn spoke on being
examplary in our lives, and upon the train-
ing of children in the right way. Mary E
Adams reported Teasdale, R. S. also bore
testimony. Sister Lucinda Brown spoke of
the necessity of the sisters meeting often
and having their spiritual strength renewed;
spoke of burying our dead in a proper
manner.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe spoke upon
the word of wisdom and other subjects in
an interesting manner. Singing, “A poor
wayfaring man of grief" and benediction
by Nancy Blackburn.
	AFTERNOON EXERCISES:  Singing,
“Come come, ye Saints,” Prayer offered
by Sister Maria Jakeman. Singing “The
time is far spent. ” A circular letter from
the General Board was read. President
J. S. Coleman explained the annual pay-
ments and spoke of donations, said the sis-
ters should bring in their donations every
month and receive the blessings in store for
them, also spoke of the necessity of having
Sister Sorenson come and teach a class, that
the sisters might be benefitted by her
knowlege.
	President Sarah Meeks reported the
Thurber R. S., in good working order.
Sister Margaret Pace made remarks which
were timely, also Sister Emma Francom on
the care of health. President Louisa J.
Talor reported Freemont R. S. doing well.
Counselor S. S. Forsythe spoke upon
Economy, household work, gave good ad-
vice to young housewives, spoke upon our
blessings and privileges and so forth. Sis-
ters Sarah Morrell and Anna Kingstrup
spoke and bore testimonies to the truth of
the Gospel. President J. S. Coleman made
some closing remarks, after singing Confer-
ence adjourned for six months. Benedic-
tion by Elizabeth Jeffrey.
			ANNA O. COLEMAN, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

WASHINGTON CO. W. S. A.
	WE are progressing fairly well with our
Woman’s Suffrage, of course we have the
usual amount of prejudice and erroneous
ideas to contend with that all such move-
ments have, still I am in hopes that by be-
ing cautious and prudent and going slow
at first, we will be able to overcome these
prejudices. We have had two very interest-
ing and instructive lectures having called
special meetings for that purpose. One by
Hon. E. G. Woolley, “Fundamental
Principles of Government. One by A.
M. Tanner when he was down here a few
weeks ago, on “Public Opinion.” The
Washington Co. W. S. Association has some
very able women both as officers and mem-
bers, and must certainly result in a great
deal of educational work among the
people.

UINTAH CO. W. S. A.
	THE following are the minutes of or-
ganization of the “Woman’s Suffrage As-
sociation in this County.” The ladies of
Uintah Co. met at the Vernal Stake house 
to organize a Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion, Sept. 25th, 1894. Mrs. Mary A. Freeze
as chairman. The meeting commenced by


singing, “Oh, come come away.” Prayer
was offered by Mr. R. S. Collett. Singing,
“Freedom’s Daughters Rouse From
Slumber.”
After several nominations, the organiza-
tion was formed of the following ladies,
who were unanimously sustained. Mrs.
Caroline A. Strineam, President. Sarah
Colton, First Vice President. Tillie Young,
Second Vice President, Miss Rose Reynolds,
Secretary and Mrs. Addie Longhurst
Treasurer. For Executive Committee,
Mrs. Saddie Holdaway Chairman, Mrs.
Nancy Colton, J. E. Dillman, Agnes Ben-
nion, Vilate Bennion. After remarks by
Mr. R. S. Collett, Mrs. Stevenson and Mr.
Jas. Hacking the audience sang America.
Benediction by Mr. Jas. Hacking.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MADAME SARAH GRAND takes a vivid
interest in the poor girls of London-town.
Every Thursday evening when she is in
town she attends Mrs. Frederic Harrison’s
Girls’ Guild at Newton Hall, and she joins
heartily in all their occupations.  She is a
strong believer in athletics for women, and 
has taken especial pleasure in helping to
provide the girls with pretty costumes for
gymnastics—Ex. 
	THE programme for the coming Con-
vention at Atlanta shows that Southern
men are coming forward to share the honor
of being champions of the rights of women.
Among the evening addresses will be 
speeches by Gen. Robert R. Hemphill, of
Abbeville, South Carolina: Col. J. Colton
Lynes, of Kentucky, and Henry C. Ham-
mond, of Georgia; while Rabbi Reich,
Revs.  Robb and Cole, of Atlanta open
the evening sessions with prayer.  The
southern women whose names appear on
the evening programme are Mrs. Caroline
E. Merrick and Mrs. Elizabeth Lyle Saxon,
of New Orleans, and Mrs. Josephine K.
Henry, of Versailles, Kentucky.
	THE president of the Georgia Woman
Suffrage Association requests us to say that
all delegates to the coming National Con-
vention will be supplied with badges,
which they are requested to wear at all 
times, in order that the courtesies of the 
occasion may be the more easily extended
them.  For the same reason, all visitors
who are not delegates are requested to wear
a yellow ribbon at all times; and all,
whether delegates or visitors, are requested
to have on a yellow ribbon when they 
arrive.
	All delegates and visitors are requested 
to register name and hotel on entering, for
the first time, the hall in which the sessions
of the convention will be held.  Books for 
this purpose will be found at the entrance
of the hall.  Regular delegates will please
register in “Delegates’ Registry;” visitors,
in “Visitors’ Registry.”


OBITUARIES.
	IT is with feeling of sadness that we announce
the death (at Sandy Utah) of our beloved sister
and co-laborer, Avrilda Burkingshaw, after a severe
illness of four weeks with typhoid fever. Avrilda
Burkingshaw Williams was bom in Masbrough,
Yorkshire England, March 11th, 1856. Was
united in marriage to Joseph Burkingshaw, 6th of
Nov. 1876, at Rotherham England, and joined the
Church in 1885, she leaves a husband and two
sons. Father, mother and sister and hosts of
friends. 
	While we mourn for her, we know that God
has called her home, for a wise and glorious pur-
pose.


She was teacher in our Relief Society, has been
an untiring worker, and always on hand to assist
in every call, that has been made and was
charitable to the poor, she was a faithful worker
in the choir being gifted with a sweet voice.
	The casket was very elegant and covered with
a profusion, of floral offerings, by sympathizing
friends. The pallbearers were teachers of our
Relief Society. The remains were taken to the
Meeting House and the funeral took place Oct.
10. at 2. p. m. and was conducted by Bishop
James Jensen, President Angus Cannon, Bishop
Holman, J. G. Fones, J. C. Brown made very ap-propriate remarks.
	The choir was olso in attendance. A massive
vault, has been erected which was dedicated by
President Angus M. Cannon.
	The remains were followed to the cemetery by
her family relations, and the large concourse of 
sympathizing friends evidencing the respect and
esteem in which she was held.
	At the resurrection morning,
	We shall all appear as one,
	Oh! what robes of bright adorning
	Will the righteous then put on. 
		WILHELMINA OLSON, Prest.
		HARRIETTE WILSON, Coun. 
		HILDA Larson, Sec.

	DIED at Mancos, Colorado, Nov. 17, 1894, Mary
Jane Slade. The cause of her death was internal
cancerous tumor. Sister Slade was the daughter
of Samuel and Ada Western, and was born at
Birmingham, England, Dec. 22, 1850. She emi-
grated with her parents, to Utah in 1868. Lived
in Salt Lake City about a year, moved from there
to Spring Valley, Nev; where she was married to
Jefferson Slade June 20th, 1869. Moved from 
Nevada to Southern Utah, finally emigrated to
the San Juan Valley 1881, and had been a resident
of Mancos, Colorado since 1888. She was the
mother of nine children, seven of whom are still
living. She filled the position of second counselor
to the President of the Relief Society for two
years prior to her death, and was faithful in the
performance of the duties pertaining to her office,
in fact, was most exemplary in all her conduct,
quiet and unassuming, but steadfastly pursuing
the path of duty, and leaving without complaint
the trials and burdens of life. 			L. M.W.


V sit the Folks.
	FOR the Holiday season the Union
Pacific will sell tickets from points on the
system on December 24th, 25th and 31st,
1894. and January 1st, 1895, at greatly re-
duced rates. For full information call on
nearest Union Pacific Agent.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
			Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

