VOL. 23. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1894. No. 5.


CONTENTS:

	Utah and her people—By Amicus. Our Visit
to Beaver Co.—L. Jones. A New Book—Rachel
Foster Avery. Woman’s Suffrage Column—A. A.
A Suggestive Book—The New Cycle. Ladies’
Semi-Monthly—Vilate Young. In Rural England.
St. Joseph Stake—Willmirth East. In Mem-
oriam—Communicated.
	EDITORIAL:—The Need of the Hour. Relief
Society Excursion. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—In Loving Remembrance—Lydia D. 
Alder. Wild Roses—Sarah Stock. Harvest
Time—M. E. T. Griffith.


IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE.

	(Aflectionately dedicated to her loved ones)
DEATH gently kissed her eyelids down,
	And hid forever the cold world’s frown, 
And in his silent, cold embrace
	I smoothed each deep furrow from her face.
"God giveth his beloved sleep”
	The rest that’s calm and sweet and deep;
And in the earth we place its trust
	To safely guard their sacred dust.
A solemn rapture sweetly fell
	On each dear feature loved so well,
As angels clasped her by the hand,
	And drew her to the Silent Land.
All honor to her noble life,
	As mother, sister, friend and wife;
True to her covenants made with God,
	She bowed her head beneath the “Rod.”
Joy, joy the ransomed spirit’s free,
	And with the just her God will see;
As earth fades from her mortal sight
	See, dazzling worlds are shining bright.
The saints sleep well, their race is run;
	The battle’s fought, the crown is won;
When God calls up the sleeping dust,
	They’ll rise in glory with the Just.
Then stay the tear and look above,
	For in the realms where all is love, 
Your wife and mother waits for you, 
	And prays that Heaven will keep you true.
Farewell, farewell ’till Christ shall come,
	Then, with the ransomed, happy throng,
May all your loved ones left below
	With you, an everlasting glory know.
August 1894. LYDIA D. ALDER.


UTAH AND HER PEOPLE.

			BY AMICUS.

[Delivered before the Literary Club at
		Ann Arbor University.]

	THIS year is national jubilee, the brother-
hood of nations join to sing the praises of
Columbus, the pioneer of the western
world. In the light of his achievement
his memory has outlived the narrow pre-
judices and misunderstandings of his time;
for at Chicago the World’s Columbian Ex-
position will coordinate the multifarious

[column 2]
lines of human skill and genius, to score
one grand triumphal symphony to his
name. 
	I pass from this inviting theme to one
which it suggests; less popular, it may be,
yet one that offers to the advocate a cause.
It seems to be a day for eulogies and re-
conciliations. We hear the motto now and
then, “No North no South, no East no
West.” Pray let us suit the action to the
word, and so erase the yet remaining lines
of sectional ill-will. An occasion is afford-
ed here to-night.
	To the masses of the people, fair Utah
as she is today is covered with a mantle;
not of charity, alas, but oftimes with the
shroud of prejudice and misconception.
Thanks to the growing channels of com-
munication, the leaven intelligence is
abroad in the land as never before; and the 
dawn of the coming century points to
higher and better things. Until we shall
have reached perfection’s shore, let the
leavening process continue. It is making
men of liberal minds and generous hearts. 
	I cannot believe that I have been mis-
taken in the spirit of freedom and Christian
toleration that pervades the intellectual at-
mosphere of the University of Michigan.
I ask you therefore, to listen to my story:
Nearly fifty years ago under the leader-
ship of Brigham Young—the Utah pioneers
of 47 made a colonizing pilgrimage unpar-
alleled in the history of the world; a sweep-
ing statement, but a true one! The time
forbids a full narration of the early rise and
progress of this peculiar people. Call them
religious enthusiasts, fanatics, what you
will; as pioneers of civilization in the great
Far West a commonwealth stands today a
monument to their thrift and industry.
	I forbear detailing the vicissitudes of the
early days. Their trials and tribulations
picture scenes that made the strongest
weep, that melted hearts of stone to sym-
pathy. Twenty thousand sorrowing ones
forsake Nauvoo the Beautiful, to find a
place of refuge in the desert. Forsake, I
said. Ah no, not that, for it struck the
tenderest chords to leave their lovely homes.
Old and young, men, women and children
go forth as refugees, finding solace in the
lamentation, “Even unto this present hour
we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked,
and are buffeted, and have no certain dwell-
ing place; being reviled, we bless; being
persecuted, we suffer it; being defamed, we
entreat; we are made as the filth of the
world, and the offscouring of all things un-
to this day.” Applying to themselves the
benediction of the persecuted, they gloried
in their tribulations.
	To find an asylvm of peace the outcasts
turn their faces westward. The Missouri
River then the west—wild west to the peo-
ple of the thickly populated east, was civili-
zation of the veriest kind to the Mormon
pioneers. Think of it! Two thousand
miles across the plains with teams!
What a contrast today, as the tourists sits
serenely in a Pulman Palace car, moving
along at almost lightening speed. When
with all our modern conveniences, we are
fatigued after a transcontinental trip, faintly

[column 3]
can we realize the hardships of the pioneer
journey.
	The advance company, after many days
travel, reach Bridger’s camp. Col. Bridger,
familiar with the Rocky Mountain country,
gives some needed information as to the
routes, distances and camping-places, but
he gives a discouraging report of the Salt
Lake Basin; assuring them that the coun-
try was wholly unfit for the habitation of
civilized men. Why, the raising of grain
was out of the question! So sanguine was
he in the statement, that, by way of empha-
sis, he offered one thousand dollars for the
first ear of corn or bushel of wheat that
could be raised there. Despite the dis-
couraging report, the pioneers continued
their journey, and on July 24th 1847, the
valiant hundred and forty-three reached the
summit of the great plateau. 
	There upon the heights they stood in re-
verential wonder. Let us gaze with them,
as they then gazed, upon a scene, matchless
in its grandeur, awful in its solitude!
(		) Outstretched before them is
America’s Dead Salt sea, glistening in the
sunlight; the shimmering waves reflecting
lustrous diamonds and silvery sheen. The
everlasting Wasatch hills are linked and
inter-linked in grand majestic mountain
chains, whose towering, snow capped heads
ascend the dizzy heights to kiss cerulean
skies. From gorges seamed and craggy,
flow limpid, laughing streams, cold and
crystal clear—“Leaping, dashing, foaming,
splashing, from rock to glen, from peak to
plain.” But the canyon streams were far
and few, and the arid waste they watered,
glistened with beds of salt and soda, and
pools of deadly alkali.
	The historian tells us it was no garden of
the Hesperides upon which the pioneers
gazed that memorable July morning.
“Aside from its scenic splendor, which was
indeed magnificent, there was little to in-
vite, and much to repel in the prospect pre-
sented to their view. No waving fields, no
swaying forests, no verdant meadows to
rest and refresh the weary eyes, but on all
sides a seemingly endless waste of sage
bush bespangled with sunflowers.—the
paradise of the lizard, the cricket and the
rattlesnake. "The Great American Desert!"
Such was its fitting name upon the maps.
The only human dwellers are roving bands
of Indians; but for these, silence and deso-
lation reign. A silence unbroken save by
the cricket’s ceaseless chirp, the roar of the
mountain torrent, or the whir and twitter
of the passing bird—A desolation of cen-
turies where earth seems heaven forsaken,
where hermit nature watching, waiting,
weeps, and worships God amid eternal
solitudes.” It was in the very heart of this
inhospitable reigion a thousand miles from
anywhere the people were to make their
homes.
	Before descending into the valley, they
plant on Ensign Peak the stars and stripes,
and fling its silken folds to saline breezes.
The present site of Salt Lake City is chosen
and laid off with prescient foresight, it
would seem, of the immense proportions it
would yet assume; a day when its wide


[Column 1] 
streets, paved walks, and rippling streams
coursing the shady thoroughfares, would
be at once the admiration and delight of all.
The public squares located, they built from
sun-dried brick a school house. To their
credit be it said,' so near to them was the
cause of education that the first building
erected was a temple of learning, dedicated
as a public school. It was modest, aye,
homely on its architectural side, but symbol
of a high ideal. Note the outcome of this
early movement. Utah, today, according
to the census can stand comparisons with
some states in cultured New England, with-
out having cause to blush.
	The pioneer’s Indian policy from the first
was to feed the red men, not to fight them.
Untutored as he is, the Indian is human
still; for learning that the pioneers were
friendly, he became, in turn, their friend.
Often have I heard the simple, childlike
salutation of these children of the wilder-
ness: "How d’do. I like you—give me
‘Something to eat.” Or in the vernacular:
‘"Mike. Ahena meamegomigan. unah
kanucha kahmumuk.”
Though lovers of the beautiful, aesthetics
—in the narrow sense, gave place to activi-
ities more directly connected with the life
serving functions for the pioneers began
to have a certain undefined feeling that
turnips and potatoes were paragons of for-
mal beauty.
With mingled feelings of hope and fear,
they broke a few acres of dry, parched
ground, (and quite as many plow-shares)
planted their seed, irrigated from the can-
yon stream the thirsty soil, and looked to
God to give the increase.
There was an alternating struggle for the
victory between King Harvest and the
‘Monster Famine. (More than once the
words of-Col. Bridger came to them.) The
lateness of the season, too, did not tend to
reassure them. But the seeds take root and
grow the crops mature, the harvest comes,
and with it, such a time of joy and grati-
tude as is seldom witnessed.
The ordeal for the first few years was,
indeed, a trying one. What with the
ravages of crickets, grasshoppers, and re-
curring drought, they often reaped half
crops and sometimes scarcely none. In
these extremities, boiled roots and raw-
hides made up the bill of fare and were
eaten with a relish.
What a transformation scene the wizard
wand of industry has wrought! What a
tribute to the perseverance of the people.
What before was desolation, now blossoms
as the rose and mother earth, once barren,
now brings forth her increase, and revels in
the rich luxuriance of production. Ladened
fruit trees, fragrant flowers, fields of wav-
ing, golden grain make glad the sight.
The flocks and herds by thousands roam
-the hills. The mountains with their ribs
of iron, hearts of silver and veins of gold
add millions to the nations wealth. And
as for salt! We have enough of this com-
modity in our one liquid mine do supply the
earth! Right in this connection is a
singular fact for which my chemistry can-
not account. Utah today sends more
freshmen to the University of Michigan
than any state in the west.
Tourists, on investigation, are surprised
at the varied natural resources of our
territory. Our work shops, mills, factories
and refineries produce everything from
tooth-picks, to sugar by the train load. The
Utah sugar factory is one of the largest in
the United States last year’s output was

[Column 2]
over two and a half million pounds. Free
schools, and churches of all denominations
are supported. The fine arts have their
devotees. Sculptors, painters, musicians,
poets, all create the images of their fancy
which bring to them the meed of praise,
and pleasure to their patrons.
	When you visit the World’s Fair, spend
an hour in the Utah Building and be sur-
prised and pleased. You then will grant
the truth and moderation of my words to-
night.
	Look at Utah as she is today. Let the
dead past bury the dead. Have you read
the public records? In the official judgment
of the nations Chief Executive there is no
“Mormon Question” now. President
Harrison accepts the Manifesto of the Mor-
mon people as sincere, and so by proclama-
tion has granted amnesty.
	Leaves have their time to fall. Utah has
emerged from gloomy night, and all her
citizens, Mormon, Jew and Gentile, hail
the coming day. Courted with favor by
both the great political parties, Utah—hav-
ing long outgrown her swaddling clothes,
will soon be clothed with robes of state-
hood. Be not taken by surprise; rather
with a reconciled assurance bid a sister
welcome.
	Listen to the patriotic song of Utah’s
sons and daughters. We know no other
country, it is our first and only love. The
grandsires of the pioneers—our fathers,
and the valiant soldiers of the Revolution,
in the struggle for independence, marched
shoulder to shoulder, fought and bled and
died on the same battle fields. In the time
of war, the union’s loyal sons have braved
the fight, and faithful wives and mothers
prayed. We would not ask for war to give
the test, that were disregardful of the
nation’s weal; but oh, believe me! there
beats within our breasts hearts that are true!
We would be good and upright citizens of
the grand Republic. We would emulate
the virtues of the tried and true. Wash-
ington, Jefferson, Lincoln, Grant, all by
us are known and loved. Then extend to
us the hand of friendship, let your hearts
express good will thus man to man is re-
conciled and the purposes of God fulfilled.
Behold! and lo! In the western sky a
shining star appears and that star—Utah,
“Queen of the West.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


OUR VISIT TO BEAVER CO.

Editor Exponent:—
	A NUMBER of ladies and gentlemen
representing different associations in this
county started from Beaver Aug 8, to visit
Adamsville and Minersville. Of the Relief
Society were the Stake President, Sister
Lucinda Howd, Sister R. W. Tyler, Presi-
dent of Beaver Relief Society and her
Counselor Sister Jane Bickly. Of the Y.
L. M. I. A. were the Stake President Mrs.
Sarah Maeser and her counselor Mrs. Lot-
tie Stoney. Of the Primary Assodation
were Stake President Mrs. M. E. Murdock
and her Counselor Mrs. Jane Gillis. Of
the Suffrage Association were Mrs. L. Jones
Mr. J. R. Murdock and Mr. G. W. Bickly.
	The party was absent three days, traveled
thirty six miles, and held eight meetings in
the interest of the above named associations.
The meetings were well attended and every
body seemed to enjoy themselves re-
markably well. In Adamsville the Young
Ladies and Primary Association were re-
organized and put in good running order.


The subjects treated upon were: the
training of children, necessity of sustaining
the different orgnizations, of exercising
charity, of good examples and strict
obedience; the storing of wheat, fulfillment
of prophecies, healing of the sick by the
laying on of hands, and our perfect system
of government a grand and noble edifice
which each one is helping to build. In the
suffrage meetings the nearness to statehood,
the necessity of Utah giving full suffrage to
all of her citizens, and kindred subjects
were spoken of. We returned to our home
feeling well paid for our trip and realizing
that such visits are not made often enough
as they tend to create an interest in, and
sympathy for, one another, promoting peace,
harmony and union with all interested in
the great work of the Latter-days.
	L. JONES, Stake Sec.


A NEW BOOK

	WOMEN workers along all lines will feel
a special interest in the book about to be
issued under the title of “Intellectual
California.” This is a resume of intellect-
ual progress in that State as presented in
the Congresses held simultaneously with
the Mid-Winter Fair.
	The work is in three volumes including
(1) History of the Fair; (2) The Con-
gresses; (3) The Congresses and the School
System. Prominence is given to the
Woman’s Congress and the Woman’s Con-
gress of Missions, both of which were epoch
making in the intellectual life of women of
the Pacific Coast. The cost of each volume
is three dollars ($3.00) and may be sub-
scribed for separately.
	Charles Freeman Johnson, the official
reporter to both the Fair and the Con-
gresses, is issuing this book. He is an
Eastern man whose mother, Dr. Maria Nye
Johnson, was for some years well known
in Philadelphia through her successful,
medical practice. Her son has imbibed
from her an enthusiasm for the woman’s
cause and I know his report of what Cali-
fornia Pacific Coast Women are doing will
be a valuable one and can be safely com-
mended to the interest and patronage of the
readers of the WOMANS' EXPONENT.
	I hope the circulation of this valuable
book will not be confined to Western read-
ers. Mr. Johnson’s address is room 3,
fifth floor, Mills Building, San Francisco,
Cal.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.


SENATOR HAAR in his article, published
in The Century quoted the following para- 
graph. Rufus Choate, in his great speech
to the Whigs at Salem, in 1848, says:
	“I do not suppose I enter on any delicate or
debatable region of social philosophy; sure I am
that I concede away nothing which I ought to
assert for our sex when I say that the collective
womanhood of a people like our own, seizes with
matchless facility and certainty on the moral and
personal peculiarities and character of marked
and conspicuous men, and that we may very
wisely address, ourselves to her to learn if, a com-
petitor for the highest honors has revealed that
truly noble nature that entitles him to a place in
the hearts of a nation. We talk and think of
measures of creeds in politics of availability of
strength to carry the vote of Pennsylvania, or the
vote of Mississippi. Through all this, her eyes
seek the moral, prudential, social, and mental
character of the man himself—and she finds it!”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WILD ROSES.

I DWELL in a high mountain home,
And 'mid its vales I love to roam,
In the twilight's waning hours
Gath’ring fragrant wild wood flowers,
With pure delight o’er hill and dell,
To gather ferns, and the wild blue bell;
But of all flow’rs I love the best 
The sweet wild roses of the west. 
Reminding me of love’s young dream 
Where wandering by brook and stream, 
Oft in my girlhood’s days of yore;
(That dream has fled to come no more)
I gathered roses fresh and fair
And twin’d them in my dark brown hair
How can I help loving them best 
Beautiful roses of the west.

There are many flowers by the way side,
They’ve bloom’d in beauty then drooped and
	died;
O’er all the landscape green and fair
A master hand hath painted rare;
’mid all the splendor behold the green 
Of nature’s robe, she reigns as queen;
Yet in my heart I love the best
The dear wild roses of the west.
While I dwell in my mountain home 
No dearer pleasure to me will come,
Than to pluck the wildest flower that grows,
But best of all, 1 love the wild rose;
And when life’s feverish dreams are o’er
And ’mong the living I’m known no more
I ask no garland upon my breast 
Save only the wild rose of the west.
	SARAH STOCK.


HARVEST TIME.

HARVEST time, and a bright glad sun,
Sends its beams o’er the yellowing fields;
The heavy grain, and sweet-scented meadows,
All tell of bounteous yields;
The clang of mower, and clash of scythe
Are gathering the yield of the soil;
Every where is fruitfulness
To gladden the sons of toil.
We will gather it in with thankfulness;
Truly Our God is good,
For He might have sent us barrenness,
Through tempest wind or flood,
We are so small to His mightiness,
So weak, so prone to wrong;
But from the “Strength of the hills” and valleys
Our God has made us strong.
We were driven into the wilderness;
We were scourged by tyranny’s power,
We were sent to the mountain’s solitude—
But, now comes the promised hour,
When Joseph’s may succor their brethren,—
When the fruits of a harvest field
Will be drawn from the wayward multitudes,
Whom to righteousness will not yield.
Let us gather in the harvest
With joy and praise, and prayer;
While giving thanks for the plenty
Garner all with the greatest care;
In humility praise the Giver
For the fruits of the harvest field
Remembering where much is given,
In return we much must yield.
	M. E. T. GRIEFITH.


THREE young Turkish women have
recently arrived in France in order to go
through a regular course of medical train-
ing at French universities. One of them
is the daughter of a pasha.


A SUGGESTIVE BOOK.

	A VERY interesting little work by
Charlotte Carmichael Stopes, entitled “Brit-
isn Free-women—their Historical Privilege”
has been recently issued.
	This book is the' result of careful and
comprehensive investigation of constitu-
tional History, Statutes, Rolls of Parlia-
ment, State papers, and works on Law,
History, and Archaeology, both printed and
in manuscript of all sorts, ancient and
modern, the facts gathered and classified,
summing themselves under the Ethnologi-
cal head, the Philogical, the Legal, the
Historical, and the Biblical.
	In her preface the author says in regard


to first: the Ethnological head.— “The
racial characteristics of our ancestors. They
reverenced women.
	Second. All old statutes are couched in
general terms. Through, a deficiency in
the English language, the word ‘man’ is a
common term, including women as well as
man, even by statute.
	Third. The Legal.—All old laws are
also couched in general terms. Sir Edward
Coke, was only a fellow mortal, liable to
error. The late Laureate speaks of the
liberties of men as widening down from
precedent to precedent. We find that the
liberties of women have, on the other hand,
been narrowed down from precedent to
precedent.”
	She finds that women have been Queen’s
Consort; Queen’s Regnant, and Queen’s
Regent. That as noble women they have
received homage, held courts baron, and
held by military service. That they could
be knights; could and did inherit public
offices; could be high sheriff, high constable,
high steward, high chamberlain and gover-
nor of royal castles. That as peeresses
they could be, and were summoned to Par-
liament in person or by proxy.
	That as county women they could be
Freeholders: could elect Knights of the
Shire; could elect members of private
boroughs, etc.
	As Free women they could be members
of Guilds; have Guilds of their own, and
did. In the reign of Edward the Fourth
there is a petition recorded in the Parlimen-
tary rolls, from the “Silkewomen” and
“Throwsters” of the “crafte” of “Silke-
work,” 1,000 in number, praying for leave
to combine, and asking for “protection,’’
against the introduction of foreign manu-
factured silk goods. They were also free
of the city of London, as were all who
paid taxes, “Scot and Lot;” and free of
other boroughs. They could be members
of corporations, and could vote for members
of Parliament.
	The constructions put upon law, and the
decisions of Sir Edward Coke first seriously
assailed the liberties of women, and these
have been followed by the increasing
power, as tests of human value, of money
and military service.
	The author sees now the “turn of the
tide,” and sums up in her closing pages
the work that has been, and is being ac-
complished.  It is, however, still true that
whatever it is for women to gain it is also
necessary to vigilantly hold and keep.
	THE NEW CYCLE.


MISS HELEN M. WINSLOW has accepted
a position as associate editor of the New
Cycle, the official organ of the General
Federation of Women’s Clubs.
	MARY FROST ORMSBY has for the fourth
time been appointed by the American Peace
Society a delegate to the Peace Congress
which meets in Antwerp, Aug, 29. 
	MISS FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE has been
appointed an honorary president of the
Tropical Section of the International Con-
gress of Hygiene and Demography, to be
held at Budapest from September 1 to 9,, Ex.
	MISS HAMILTON, of India, who has just
been appointed the physician of the harem
of the Ameer of Afghanistan, will be ac-
companied wherever she goes by a personal
guard of six native soldiers. Ex.


WOMAN SUFRAGE COLUMN.

MANTI W. S. A.

	SYNOPSIS of meeting of Manti W. S. A.
held in the Ladies’ Hall Wednesday Even-
ing August 15th. President A. L. Cox in
the chair. Meeting called to order prompt-
ly at 8:30. Singing, “The New America”
from the suffrage song book. Opening
prayer by Mrs. Wareham.
	The President then addressed the meet-
ing, expressed her pleasure at seeing so
many of the ladies at the close of the
summer vacation. Hoped they had formed
resolutions to redouble their zeal and energy
in the good cause of Equal Rights during
the coming season. Spoke of approaching
Statehood and its possibilities for the disfran-
chised half of the population. Referred
with pleasure to the presence of Miss Alice
Chapin of Mass., who would now address
the association.
	Miss Chapin expressed her pleasure in
meeting with the ladies of the W. S. A.
and although not a public speaker in the
usual acceptance of the term, was proud to
raise her voice in behalf of equal, suffrage.
Gave some very interesting reminiscences of
her father’s experience an abolitionist
and suffragist in connection with Wendell
Phillips, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Henry
Blackwell and others whose friend and co-
laborer he was. Told of the abuse and
social ostracism they had endured as a
penalty for promulgating an unpopular
doctrine. Referred to the striking change
in public sentiment which had taken
place in the last forty years. Said that
where the daily papers in the East once
gave a column of invective and sarcasm
when mentioning a suffrage meeting, they
now gave respectful notice in their local
columns that such a meeting had been held.
The speaker had no doubts as to the ulti-
mate success of the suffrage movement.
Thought all women should be preparing
themselves for citizenship, lest they prove
as incompetent in that capacity as some
men had done. Miss Chapin’s speech was
well received and a rising vote at the close
testified to the appreciation of her audience.
	She was followed by Mrs. Wareham, 
who endorsed the sentiments of the previous
speaker, thought the ballot in the hands of
women would do much to rid the nation of
the sin and infamy of the liquor traffic.
A comic speech by Mrs. Sidwell was well
received and occasioned considerable merri-
ment. After closing remarks by the Presi-
dent the singing of the “Star Spangled
Banner,” the meeting adjourned till Aug.
28th. Benediction by Mrs. Kenner.
A. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE’ B. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
Exponent office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday
Address all business communications to 
	PUBLISHER WOMANS EXPONENT.
	Salt Lake City, Utah.  
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second, class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, September 1,1894.


[Column 1]

THE NEED OF THE HOUR.
	THERE never has been a time when
there was greater need of activity and
diligence in looking after the interests of
this community than the present. To
securely guard all the sacred rights of the
people of fair Utah should be the first con-
sideration of those who assemble in the
various districts and conventions. In these
serious matters partisanship should be un-
known. It is a common interest for the
well-being of the state with all its people
and not for the few who manipulate its
affairs. The whole commonwealth and
all the various needs, of all the departments
of labor, education, enterprise, and every-
thing which enters into the growth and
prosperity of a people depend largely upon
the work of these preliminary proceedings
being well and judiciously done. The
future development of a country of innum-
erable resources to be cultivated, and il-
limitable wealth to be produced by the
energy, perserverance, thrift and industry
of its sons and daughters, will depend
greatly upon the magnificence of the Con-
stitution which is soon to be formed by
delegates chosen from among the people.
O, that supreme wisdom may be given
them as it was to our forefathers, who
framed the glorious Constitution of our
great Republic. If they will only build
strong and well that the highest attainment
possible may be achieved by the state and
the' largest freedom and opportunity given
to all her citizens irrespective of sex.
	The men who frame the Constitution for
the State of Utah are expected to build a
structure that will be permanent, that will
have a sure foundation and will not need
continually patching up because it is not
equally well poised and properly balanced
in all its parts; the strangers who visit
beautiful Utah all agree that it has the ad-
vantage of almost any other section of
country in our broad land in natural
facilities and in beauty of location, and
therefore it should have the best, the wisest
and the strongest Constitution, to corres-
pond with its belongings.
	There is no doubt of the progress of the
Western world in time to come, and it can
already boast of its brave, grand, loyal and
patriotic sons and daughters, born in these
Western wilds of hardy pioneer ances-
try, and these brave, true, strong and
patriotic men (for women have not yet the
privilege) are about to take into their keep-
ing the future well-being of the new state,

[Column 2]
and to say what its laws shall be, or to
vote upon these momentous questions.
How will they consider the interests of the
sex who have no representation save
through them? Will their claims to citizen-
ship be guaranteed to them through these
great grand noble hearted sons of the soil.
They must be trusted with this live ques-
tion, it cannot be ignored for this is the wo-
man’s age of the world and now the imper-
ative need of the hour, is pending. Shall
woman see Utah crowned with the
honors of statehood and be content that
men shall represent her at the polls. Let
them take for their standard in this matter
the declaration of Abraham Lincoln, who
said, “I go in for all, sharing the privileges
of the government among those who assist
in bearing its burdens, by no means ex-
cluding women."


[Column 1]

RELIEF SOCIETY EXCURSION. 

	THE first excursion the Relief Society
ever had was celebrated on Friday, August
24, 1894. and was a most interesting oc-
casion. Some of the committee went over
to the Lake in the forenoon to look after
matters, and at 2.15 p. m. there were four-
teen cars crowded full to overflowing, 
left the depot en route for Saltair. Arriv-
ing at the pavilion baskets were deposited 
in the great dining hall and the committee
and their aids prepared for the program of 
exercises. The Relief Society banner had been 
hung in a conspicuous place, also the 
streamer representing the Silk Industry, 
noting the time the association was 
organized by President Brigham Young. 
	President George Q. Cannon who had 
been specially invited to speak and President
Angus M. Cannon, Sisters Zina D. H. 
Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isabella
Horne, Elmina S. Taylor, E. B. Wells, M.
W. Wilcox, E. J. Stevenson, Julia C. 
Howe and L. D. Alder and several other 
members of the committee and of the 
Relief Society were seated on the platform. 
The Committee wore badges of white rib-
bon, the name Relief Society and the motto
"Charity never faileth" in gold letters, 
emblematic of the work of the Society. 
	The exercises opened with the favorite
hymn "O, my Father thou that dwellest," 
the large audience being asked to join in 
the singing. President Angus M. Cannon
offered prayer. 
	President George Q. Cannon gave a 
short speech suitable to the occasion upon 
the grand work accomplished by the Relief 
Society among the needy, the sick and the 
afflicted, and referred in terms of praise
and encouragement to the diligence and 
patience with which the sisters had labored, 
setting forth the aims and objects of the 
Society and the blessing it had been to 
many, and praying the blessing of the Lord 
upon the efforts made and upon the assem-
bly there gathered etc. 
	The Cecelia Club nine young ladies all 
fine singers rendered in excellent voice the 
song of "Mother's Lullaby." The Swiss
Warblers in costume, three ladies and two 
gentlemen in the quaint fashion of their 
native country were an attractive feature,
and their musical warble so well suited to
the Swiss mountains sounded well in the 
great open pavilion. Mrs. C. Louise
Boyden the elocutionist gave a "Model 
Discourse" (humorous) and Eli H. Pierce
sang a comic song. "There's a lock on the 
chicken coop door." Master Bertie Clive

[Column 2]
five years old, gave two selections on the 
violin and was loudly applauded; the child
is a musical genius, as was his father, who is 
now a fine violinist. Thomas Dobson who 
came over the plains with the hand-cart
company and had both his feet frozen, re-
lated a little of his sad experience, and then 
gave the Fisher's hornpipe. The Highland 
Fling by Miss Mabelle Derrick in costume 
was very pleasing, she gives it in good 
style, and the dress is specially becoming. 
Martin Lenzi gave one of his fancy dances, 
he is still light upon his feet, and dances
wonderfully, though in his 80th year. Mrs. 
Elizabeth Hunter a Scotch woman in her
Highland costume gave us a Scotch dance, 
(she is also somewhere in the seventies)
and fond of the exercise, complained the 
music was not fast enough; she has won
many prizes for her dancing in times past. 
Miss Lyle Young gave the old fashioned
Minuet, in the most graceful manner. Al- 
together the program was a success, though
we had one or two disappointments. Mrs. 
Lizzie Thomas Edwards who was to have
sung a selection of her own but was too ill
to be present, and the Harmony Glee Club
(all male voices) which was expected to 
lead out failed, when too late to secure some
other number in its place, but all things
considered it was very satisfactory. After 
the exercises Richard Horne who had
called off the program pronounced the 
benediction, and the audience dispersed. 
	The lunch prepared by a refreshment
Committee of which Elizabeth J. Stevenson
was chairman, was most delicious and
appetizing. The entire Committee and 
those who gave their services to assist with 
the program were invited to partake of the 
bountiful repast. 
	The object of the gathering was particu-
larly to obtain means to aid in establishing
other home manufactures in connection
with the Woman's  Co-operative Store, that 
those who needed employment to obtain 
the necessaries and comforts of life during
the coming winter might have remunerative
work and not be dependent upon charity, 
which makes people feel so much better 
than receiving help. We cannot state now 
just how large a sum has been raised but 
as the percentage allowed was only one
fourth, it could not be a great deal. 
	The Committee  feel very grateful to all 
those who assisted in any and every way to 
make it a success and especially so to those
who so willingly and liberally gave their 
services to make the program interesting, 
those who sang, danced, recited etc. Mrs. 
Horne and the ladies associated with her
may congratulate themselves that the day 
was an enjoyable one and the party was a 
very happy occasion as a reunion for a 
faithful band of diligent workers.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Relief Society Conference of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city on Friday Sep.
21. Meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. as usual. A punctual at-
tendance of the Presidents or representa-
tives from all the several branches in the
County is specially requested, and as many
of the numbers as can make it convenient
to be present. It is very desirable to have
this conference numerously attended as it is
expected much teaching in reference to
home industries, and other matters pertain-
ing to the interests of the Society will be


given. Bishops and brethren cordially in-
vited. M. Isabella Horne, President.
	MRS. JUDITH ELLEN FOSTER, of nation-
al name and reputation, visited Utah
recently, remaining only three or four days.
Mrs. Foster is the President of the Non-
Partisan W. C. T. U. and also of the Re-
publican Clubs of Women of the United
States. The lady gave a very eloquent and 
effective address in the Tabernacle in this
City on Sunday, Aug. 26, to a very num-
erous congregation, her subject being the
Christian Citizen. The same evening Mrs.
Foster spoke in the Methodist Church on
Third South St. her speech was suitable for
a Sabbath evening, she read and quoted
several passages of Scripture. Mrs. Foster
also spoke upon Republicanism to crowded
houses here in  the old Federal Court Room,
and also in Provo. A party in honor of
Mr. and Mrs. Foster and the wife of
Senator Warren Wyoming, visited Saltair
on Monday afternoon; the visitors expressed
themselves delighted with the beautiful
pavilion, and with the invigorating salt
water bathing.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY.

	MINUTES of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, July
14th 1894. President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing, “When
the voice of friendship’s heard.” Prayer
by Sister Brown. Continued singing,
“Satans Empire,” etc. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. President
Horne said “although few in number today,
we are promised the spirit of the Lord if
we meet in his name; we are entering upon
hard times, every kind of distress will be
poured out upon the inhabitants of the
earth, we should cultivate the spirit of love
and sympathy, be charitable to all, we can 
be kind to our enemies. There are many
allurements for the youth of Zion. Mothers
should be diligent in teaching the princi-
ples of the Gospel to their children while
they are young, in contemplating on the
signs of the times, we can see the hand of
the Lord in the troubles of today. Many 
of our friends are detained from home on
account of these strikes. Poor men show
they are envious of the rich, by their des-
truction of property. As saints of God we
should be awake to our duties. I am sorry
more of the sisters are not obeying the
counsel of Brother Young and laying up
wheat, also of sustaining home-industry.
If we had obeyed his wise counsel, we
should have been wearing our own manu-
factured clothing today, and the blessings
of the Lord would have been poured out
upon us; forty years ago my husband was
sent south to see if cotton could be raised;
how little progress we have made in all
this time in manufacturing our own wear-
ing apparel. Brother Brigham said if we
did not improve we would fall when Baby-
lon falls. He used to say, “It takes a
wise man to build up, but any one can pull
down.” Brigham Young did a wonderful
work in bringing the people to these valleys,
Brother Taylor followed him. Now
Brother Woodruff is doing a great work.
He is one of the most humble and faithful,
for his meekness, the Lord has greatly
blessed him in giving inspiration in regard
to Temple work. We have been asleep, 
not knowing that trials are so near. Let
us awake. I would do anything in my

[Column 2]
power to arouse my sisters in this Stake,
pray for a spirit of discernment, many false
spirits are in our midst, teach and interest
your children in the principles of the Gos-
pel, that we may not be condemned.”
	Sister Maria Snow of St. George Stake,
said, “I don’t think I can add any thing to
the remarks of Sister Horne. With her I
realize we are a little slack in our duties,
especially in our labor for the dead. I fear
we are too much carried away with the
things of the world. We must not lose
sight of the blessings promised for faithful-
ness. We are surely living in eventful
times. I never fully realized what was
meant by strikes until now. Calamities of
all kinds may be looked for in fulfillment
of prophecy. I will say to my sisters, don’t
neglect your meetings if you don’t want to
lose blessings. Keep your lamps trimmed
and burning.” Made some interesting re-
marks about the saints and their labors in
St. George.
	One sister said, I have spent the happiest
days of my life here in Salt Lake. I take
great interest in Young Ladies Meetings.
My daughters are engaged in the Primaries,
which gives me much joy. I am doing all
the good I can where I live. I have many
trials, there is nothing that has taken so
strong a hold on me as these meetings,
the testimonies of my sisters always give
me strength to bear my burdens more
patiently etc.
	Sister Rolleman thanked the Lord for her
home in these blessed mountains. Like my
sisters I have many trials, I desire to live
humble, and I know all will  be well with
us if we keep the commandments of God.
Made other remarks.
	One Sister related a very interesting
dream or vision, in which the Prophet
Joseph appeared in person to her mother,
in response to a request made by her, to a
son who had died, asking him to come
back and tell her if Mormonism was true.
Brother Joseph said, is there some thingr
you wish to ask me, she answered nothing,
the question was repeated the third time.
	Counselor Stevenson, spoke with much
spirit upon the necessity of mothers teach-
ing their daughters to do house work, said
there are many girls marry without knowing
how to be the least help to their husbands.
I believe the happiness of many a home has
been destroyed through this very thing.
Its the duty of every mother to teach their
daughters economy and to be industrious.
I think its time retrenchment was brought
to our young people, I am a great hand to
preach by example, it is said of us, we
care not for those not of our faith. Let us
live above criticism,show by our works that
we are true, speak of the goodness of God
one to another. I don’t believe there is
one in this congregation, but what has had
a testimony, it is the spirit of the adver-
versy that holds us back. The time has
come when we should be known by our
works. I have no time to run after the
various schemes of the day. Meeting was
adjourned for two weeks. Sung Doxology.
Benediction Sister Julia C. Howe.
			VILATE YOUNG, Sec.

	MINUTES of Semi-monthly Meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Hall July 28, 1894. President Horne
presiding; opened by singing, “Come,
come ye Saints." Prayer Counselor Webb.
Singing, “Oh! Say what is truth, etc.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved.

[Column 3]
	President Horne said, “I wish to talk a
few minutes about the manner of voting.
Brother Penrose gave some good instruc-
tions in regard to it. At the Eighteenth
Ward Conference, he said when we vote it
should be in a way, that will show we are
interested in the duty before us, lift the
arm to the square. I am well pleased
with the liberal response of officers and
stockholders, to the call made to be present
at this meeting, as I have business of im-
portance to lay before the sisters, I feel the
time has come that a united effort should
be made, to sustain and build up home in-
dustry and institutions; at the late Relief
Society conference over Jordan the sisters
concluded to try and gather, straw and see
what they could do in hat making, our hard
times have only commenced, the brethren
are taking hold of home industry with
great interest; we don’t want them to go
ahead of us; a word must be said in regard
to our Woman’s Store, we have had a hard
struggle for three and a half years, and are
still alive, but not by the patronage of the
sisters. If all were united other industries
might be carried on with the same expense,
that it requires to ruen the store. The
Lord says, ‘I will have a people that will
live by sacrifice.’ Why can’t we come to
that and sustain our own institutions. We
don’t know how soon our supplies may be
cut off. Its fearful to contemplate the trials
of the inhabitants of the earth; calamities
by fire and water, and accidents of every
kind. I hope we will take warning by the
signs of the times, and be prepared for
things to come. My grand-son bought a
couple of shirts, and I thought upon exam-
ining them, how much better to have them
made at home, than sending our means
away, and leaving our girls without em-
ployment. There are many branches of
industry we can take hold of if we are
united as Relief Society Sisters. We
ought to combine our interests. One can’t
do it alone, we must remember ‘where
there’s a will there’s a way.’ We talk a
good deal about suffrage, we thought in
starting the store it would be just what we
needed. But have been disappointed in
some of our calculations. I will now leave
the subject before you hoping to hear from
others.”
	Sister L. D. Alder, my Sunday School
Class has been reading about the downfall
of Jerusalem, how the people disregarded
the warning. The down fall came just the
same, Brother Cannon has given us words
of warning as well as others. How often
we are told to prepare ourselves for trying
times, we can easily see how soon we can
be cut off from the outside world, by the ex-
perience of the past few weeks. Brother
Woodruff says destruction is in the very
air. We can imagine what the condition
will be when brother is arrayed against
brother and those who will not take up the
sword must flee to Zion for safety. I have
worked at the straw work years ago, we
had hats for sale also rag carpets, in the
Relief Society. I am anxious these home
industries should succeed for I am just as
sure as can be things will come, as has been
predicted.
	Sister C. C. Raleigh Wells:—“I can en-
dorse what Sister Horne says in regard to
the struggle we have had to keep, our store
running, I believe the move was given by
inspiration. Have kept up against all
drawbacks, have never felt for a moment
we would fail. Men would have given up
long ago. Our intention in the beginning


was to furnish employment for some of our
girls, we had other aims, and desires, have
been disappointed in many things. The
Relief Society is well established if each
would give us a little of their patronage
it would be a great help to us. Its a re-
proach to us, that this is the only ladies’
store we have; thus far we have not had
thanks for our labor but reproach, I hope
the sisters from this on, will assist and
make this institution what we intended it
to be. There is no need of failure if we
cant get what we want at the store. You
could if you give us your patronage. We
could carry a much larger stock. Sister
Alder spoke my fellings, have been looking
for these times, we will surely be cut off,
if things continue as they are: we have it
I know, I hope every Sister will take hold
with us if we dont heed the warnings,
we will be sure to feel the mistakes made;
spoke a few words on Silk Culture.
	Sister Susan Grant of Davis County said
I take great interest in Home Industry.
Always trade at the Woman’s Store. Also
advise the sisters in our stake to do so. If
we cant see the fulfillment of Prophecy I
dont know what it will take to open our
eyes. I feel to sustain Home Industry in
every branch. The Lord tells us to adorn
ourselves with the workmanship of our own
hand we should put our shoulder to the
wheel. Have good and competent workers 
in the Davis Stake. In years past I always
felt like getting in a corner and staying
there; since taking an active part in public
duties, have experienced great joy in my
labors.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox felt to endorse all
said by previous speakers. All are willing
to sustain Sister Horne in spiritual affairs.
Why not the same in regard to these in-
dustries, I am very much interested in the
straw work, think our young ladies would
do well to take hold of this branch. The
Relief Society can be a great help if they are
interested.
	Sister Minerva Snow was pleased to again
have the privilege of meeting with the
sisters. "I love to hear the testimonies and
enjoy the spirit present. I know Sister
Horne was inspired in making the remarks
she has, it is a step in the right direction.
Its time we aroused ourselves, if all would
take hold what a work could be accomplish-
ed. The time will come when we will not
have Sister Horne with us, much as we de-
sire it. I know she is inspired of God, let
us work and sustain and encourage her in
her labors. I would like to take up a class
in straw work if I had the straw. Have
just taken a trip in behalf of silk culture.
I can see the hand of the Lord in the signs
of the times. He will carry us through if
we keep hold of the iron rod.
	Sister S. M. Kimball said, I am not a
director but I am a stockholder, and I am a
patronizer of the store. Am interested in
this move. Capitalists say, the hardest
toil is to make the first five hundred dollars,
would like to see this enterprise increased,
and eventually brought into a banking
institution, would like to see it become so
popular, that our sisters would be glad to
go there. Am satisfied Sister Horne, has
worked diligently, for one I feel like sus-
taining her. I pray God to bless all who
put forth an effort to save or furnish em-
ployment for our girls, etc.
	Sister. E. B. Wells, I feel especially in-
terested, in the Industrial question, am par-
ticularly interested in any thing that will
help our girls. I don’t forget how Sister

[column 2]
Barney nearly worked herself to death,
and others too, to establish straw braiding
some years ago. There are some beautiful
flowers at the store made by our sisters,
come and see them. I would like to see
the store sustained. We have a market for
silk and cocoons if we need to sell, but I
prefer keeping the silk at home. The
Japanese will make reels, and teach the
reeling if any one wishes to learn it. Sister
Jennings has a class of about eighteen or
twenty girls teaching them to sew to enable
them to become self-supporting. I am
greatly in favor of the excursion to Saltair
in the interest of home industry. I would
like to hear from Sister Jennings.”
	Sister Jennings said, “last winter I saw
the need of helping the young girls. There
are many who can’t get employment, they
can’t sew, and are unable to take care of
themselves. I concluded to organize a
class and give all who would like to attend
the opportunity of learning to sew, we are
getting along quite satisfactorily I
went to the Co-op store and asked them if
they would stop sending for things we
could make at home, they promised to take
all we could lay down at the price they buy.
I am interested in the Womans Co-op, tell
members of my family to buy there, am
satisfied myself, but I have to trade where
my investments are.”
	Sister Horne made closing remarks. We
don’t want to pull against each other, but
branch out in all things. We had hoped to
own a large place before this and be able to
have more employed to help themselves,
have done the best we could under the cir-
cumstances, we may have made mistakes,
have always been desirous to please our
patrons, we will work for the good of Zion,
in temporal as well as spiritual things, the
existing troubles may lull for a while. We
had hoped to have a bureau of information
have failed thus far, we had lofty aims when
we started out; without support we could
not carry them through.
	Sister Taylor said a few words in praise
of Sister Horne and her assistants. "If you
knew how these women have struggled to
keep the store alive, men would have given
up long ago, I don’t think it would have
been possible for them to have kept their
heads above water. Great credit is due to
these sisters, and its our duty to sustain
them.’’ Donations were received and
several shares were taken. Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks. Benediction Sister
E. Pixton. 		V. R. YOUNG, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
XLI.
	NATURALLY Mrs. Bland was very lonely
after the Waltons had left America and she
could scarcely wait for news of their safe
arrival. She busied herself as best she
could with household duties, and the train-
ing of her little son the one object of her
especial care and devotion. He was grow-
ing to be a tall boy, and so very like his
father, in both appearance and disposition.
She had many plans in her mind concern-
ing his future, but was very seldom think-
ing of her own. Occasionally the absent
cousin Clair, and the companion of his
wanderings would come to her mind, but
she would not allow herself to form any
day-dreams even concerning what might
be should they ever meet again; Maitland
had promised to make special inquiry in

[Column 2]
London about Anna’s brother and let her
know as soon as he possibly could, what
Clair’s future was likely to be. The dull
days dragged on and at last a letter came
saying the family had arrived safely at
Walton Hall, that Mr. Harrison and Clair
Hilliard were in the East Indies at last
accounts, and would probably return shortly.
That was all the message but Mrs. Bland
felt better now, lighter-hearted knowing
the children had reached their home, and
perhaps for the other news of far away
friends.
	One day not long after the letter from
England news was circulated that a ship
was coming in, and Mrs. Bland who sel-
dom went out persuaded by her little son,
who had never seen a ship land, went down
to the shore.
	Ere long the passengers were landed and
Mrs. Bland turned her steps homeward but
she was soon followed, a quick step close
behind her caused her to look and there
seemingly scarcely a day older than when
she had last seen him was Robert Harrison.
He looked at her a moment and his first
words were “Where is my cousin Anna?’’
Explanation followed as they kept on their
way, and soon all was told amidst tears and
sobs. Strange to say Mrs. Bland did not
recall her dream though it had been so
literally fulfilled, until after she had retired
to her own apartments for the night. Mr.
Harrison had left her late and gone to the
public house where his luggage had been
taken, and she scarcely realized that she
was not even then dreaming, except that
repeating so many sad things (for Mr.
Harrison insisted upon knowing all) that
had transpired and had made the past much
more vivid, than for many a day, and she
had to struggle with herself to quiet her
nerves and regain composure after Mr.
Harrison had said good night. Conway
had been fast asleep for hours, the servants
were in bed all except her faithful Josiah
who always kept guard. Her thoughts had
wandered far back to her earlier days at the
Castle, and the many strange incidents that
had transpired there, and how seemingly
presentiments had come to her, and now the
fulfillment of her strange dream; and her
wondering of the future what it would be.
That she loved Mr. Harrison in the best
and truest way her heart demonstrated for
she felt now, he was linked in her life, and
Anna she thought how happy it would have
made her to know that the one relative of
her mother’s was to be dear cousin Jane’s
protector from henceforth, for Mr. Harrison
assured himself as he left Mrs. Bland’s
door that first night, that he should stand
by her and Anna’s children while he lived.
From Mrs. Bland’s account of Maitland he
had concluded he would not take more than
a general interest in the children, and past
experiences of Lady Walton, had not given
him a very high estimate of her ability to
successfully train and rear the children now
committed to her care.
	The love he had felt for Jane Conway
ere he knew of her engagement to Dr.
Bland had been kept in abeyance while she
was a wife, but when he met her as a
widow his heart went out to her and all the
pent-up emotions seemed to redouble their
force, and he determined to offer his hand
and heart; she had spoken to him of young
Barrington, and he had recognized from
what she said, his own nephew, and had
been interested at once; he would find this
young minister and make assurance doubly
sure that he was Sidney Barrington the


[Column 1]
only child of his only sister, who had died
when her boy was born, and the father soon
after. Mr. Harrison had asked Mrs. Bland
several direct questions concerning the
young minister, but she had not in the
least suspected the relationship, nor had it
even struck her as a coincidence that his
uncle was eccentric or away in foreign parts
which Mr. Barrington had said to her
that night when alluding to his loneliness.
	The following morning Mr. Harrison
went direct to John Austin’s humble home,
and inquired for Mr. Barrington. On see-
ing him he was so struck by his resem-
blance to his mother, that he could scarcely
speak, Barrington observing his emotion
and noticing him to be a stranger by his
dress and manner intuitively felt that he
must be his uncle, and the prophetic words
of Mrs. Bland came instantly to his mind,
"he will come and look you up in this new
land.”
	When Mr. Harrison recovered himself
sufficiently, he addressed his nephew
familiarly as though he had always known
him. “Sidney my boy you are so like
your mother I was near breaking down, and
that is an unusual thing for a man at my
time of life, one who has knocked about as
I have in many countries on the land and
on the sea, but it is my good fortune to
find you here in this wild place, and to learn
how you have won the respect and confi-
dence of some of my dear friends, and now
I propose to take you under my special
care, as if I were your own father, and I 
shall ask these good Christian people to get
another preacher, and you shall have a
vacation.”
	The young man could scarce find voice
to reply, he was so completely overcome
with the declaration of his new-found uncle,
who spoke like an oracle, but realizing how
stupid it was not to reply, he roused him-
self and asked, “How did you find me out,
have you been in London recently, did you 
learn of me through Houghton & Co.?”
	“No I’ve not been in London since com-
ing from abroad, I am just from the West
Indies, and had not even thought of you,
except perhaps casually, since I learned you
had taken to the pulpit, but I’m not going
to find fault with you for that, or anything
else, Mrs. Bland tells me you’re a capital
fellow, almost her sole friend here, and that
you stood by Anna my foster-daughter and
were a great solace in her most trying
hours. For these kindnesses alone you
would deserve my gratitude, but as you are
really my kinsman, and as we are somewhat
alone in the world, with no near relatives
we must become better acquainted, and now
if you have breakfasted, let us walk out
together in the open air, and talk of ou[-]
relationship. I am not a man of ceremonies
as you see, but we shall get on agreeably
doubtless, and as you are intimate at Mrs.
Bland’s we will call there later on, and as-
tonish her with the news that we have found
each other.”
	“I was not aware you knew Mrs. Bland
uncle, I only just guessed from what you
said now, that she had told you of me, but
does she not know you are my relative, how
then came she to speak of me, and how did
you know Mrs. Bland?”
	“All these questions in one, I know Mrs.
Bland through Anna Hilliard, and I found
her by accident much as I have you; I was
in London, in the gay season, and met Lady
Anna Hilliard at a party and was struck
with her resemblance to my cousin Clarice
Courtney, and by inquiring learned she

[Column 2]
was her daughter. I called unceremonious-
ly and met Miss Conway since Mrs.Bland and
some other time, I may tell you more, but
for the present, that is sufficient explanation
and now let us go.”
	Once in the open air the two gentlemen
conversed freely, the younger one more
reticent was unwilling to acknowledge he
needed rest or even a change, but he found
his uncle determined to carry his point, and
he finally consented that he would go with
him to good old Deacon Meredith and ask
for his release. Mr. Harrison declared it
must be final, his nephew argued against
it, but the elder man was the stronger, and
when Mrs. Bland joined in the persuasion,
the young minister gave way and the con-
sent was gained; the old Deacon was pro-
fuse in his praise of dear Mr. Barrington,
and so delighted to know of his distinguish-
ed uncle.
	Mr. Harrison received a letter from
Clair not long after his arrival in America,
and as Clair had found that his cousin Jane
was now a widow, and was well aware how
matters stood with Robert Harrison, he
inquired particularly whether there was
any hope of his being successful in winning 
the affections of his cousin, and added,
“she is the bravest, truest, most conscien-
tious, and withal the most superior woman
I have ever known, even Lady Walton
says, she has never seen her equal."	
	Mr. Harrison concealed these inquiries
from Mrs. Bland, but read it all to his
nephew, who coincided and was even more
enthusiastic in her praise. By this time
the two men understood each other very
well, in fact Mr. Harrison was at first very
much afraid, the young minister was him-
self in love with the widow, and the par-
ishioners of conrse had not been slow in
circulating the story of the intimacy, so the
new arrival should hear of it. Mr. Harri-
son however, soon found how matters stood,
and questioned Sidney very closely concern-
ing his friendship for Anna. Sidney ad-
mitted Maitland’s jealousy but explained
that it was totally unfounded, that he had
been strongly attracted to Lady Walton
from the time he first met her on board
ship, and said he “Uncle Robert it was one
of those peculiar fascinations that I seemed
to have no power to control, it was purely
spontaneous, and I believe she felt it as
strongly as I did, for she confided in me
with the utmost freedom, and I could not
account for it, nor can I even now, though
I know the kinship that existed, O, if
Anna could have known we were cousins,
what a pleasure it would have been!”
	Many were the long talks these two had
together. and with Mrs. Bland, but Mr.
Barrington did not lose any of that deep
religious fervor through his association with
his uncle but in this respect he unconscious-
ly helped him to look upward and to be
more spiritual in his character; and indeed
the society with which he mingled Puritani-
cal as it was, lifted him out of himself, and
he grew gradually more religious in tem-
perament through these dominant influences
that were all about him. He was long
past his youth, and even the meridian of
life, and Mrs. Bland when thinking serious-
ly of the future, could not but wonder at
the fate that seemed to suggest that she
should unite herself in marriage the second
time with a man so many years her senior.
Robert Harrison had let her see from the
first how sacredly he held her, and Clair
wrote again and again to her urging her
consent, for said he, "you will need some

[Column 3]
one to help you, even though you are so
self-reliant, my sister Anna’s children are
bound to come to you yet, Maitland is pay-
ing his addresses to one of the society belles
of London, who will never take charge of
another woman’s children, and Lady Wal-
ton looks weary and frail."
	Mrs. Bland's heart gave a great bound
when she read that letter, her love for her
cousin’s children was strong and abiding,
and she longed for them daily and hourly,
but she wavered in her feelings when she
thought of once more entering into marriage
relations. It seemed to her high sense of
justice not quite honorable to the dead,
especially as she recalled how hard it had
been for her to keep her promise to the 
Doctor, after realizing the true state of her
own feelings towards the man, who was
now so ardently and persistently urging
her consent to become his wife. She had a 
number of friends, worthy good women
but no confident, and she decided finally to
talk with Sidney, as she had learned to
speak of him, for he was like her own
brother now almost, so near her own age,
though such women as Jane Bland seem
older than their years. Mr. Harrison had
never told her of his boyish love for his
cousin Clarice, but she had heard it from
those ladies at the London ball, and she
made up her mind he must tell her if the
marriage was to be; she could not ask him, 
and she was in a sort of quandary how to
bring it about. “The old saying all things
come to those who wait,” proved true in
the life of Jane Bland.
	One evening when they were sitting in
her drawing room after dinner, and con-
versation flowed freely, Robert Harrison ad-
dressing Sidney said, "Has Mrs. Bland
ever told you of her interesting and singu-
lar experiences at Hilliard castle?”
	“Never, and I would so like to know
about that old ruin as they all term it, Lady
Walton once told me it was unbearable un-
til after her cousin Jane came to stay there,
her father was seldom at home, and so stern
and unrelenting she was always in awe of
him, and she knew nothing of her mother,
there was not even a portrait of her in the
gallery, nor anywhere, though it is said
she was uncommonly beautiful, and as you
knew her Uncle Robert (she was your own
cousin I believe) suppose you tell us of this
lovely lady, who died so young when there
was everything to live for.”
	I cannot now, at some future, some more
opportune time I mean, but pardon me it is
with great pain I hear her alluded to, her
marriage was most unfortunate, a hurried
affair, brought about by others, she never
loved Sir Edward Hilliard, never could
have loved him, her very opposite in every
thing.” Mrs. Bland watched Mr. Harri-
son scrutinizingly as he spoke of Lady
Hilliard, she had guessed as much, then he
must tell her of this, otherwise she would
never consent to the marriage he so much
desired.
	One day soon after, they were walking
together through a great forest of tall pines,
and while resting underneath the trees, Mr.
Harrison spoke of his boyhood, what a 
pleasure it had been to ramble in the green
fields and parks and grand old woods of
England, and as he talked on enthusiastical-
ly of his sister and his cousin who were his
playmates and companions, he looked up and
said abruptly, I must tell you Jane (Mrs.
Bland I mean) of my boyish love and how
I came to be such a restless rover, wander-
ing from land to land and never satisfied.


ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	To President Zina D. H. Young and the
sisters of the Central Board of the Relief
Society.
	The Reports of the Relief Society of St.
Joseph Stake are not as encouraging as we
would wish, but nevertheless we are thank-
ful that we have been able to continue to
hold our conferences quarterly, and receive
reports from the various organizations which
are holding meetings regularly with a few
exceptions. We are laboring diligently to
establish some branches of home industry,
the braiding of straw, and raising of
cotton, that we may send for a spinning
Jenny that will pick and spin the cotton, as
this is a fine country for cotton and also
silk, we really see the necessity and attach
the importance to becoming a self-sustain-
ing people, we also hold our monthly meet-
ings and urge it upon the Society in all its
branches to sustain the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT and have it read in the meetings that
they may know the counsels of the Central
Board and also read the lectures upon.
Faith in their meetings and Discourses of
the First Presidency of the Church, which
will feed our immortal souls and develop
the faith that is necessary to enable us to
establish righteousness in ourselves, and
impart the same to all with whom we are
associated.
	With much love to the sisters desiring
an interest in your faith and prayers when
in conference assembled, as I am expecting
to start to Texas in a few days, having been
invited by my brothers who proffered to
pay my traveling expenses; I acknowledge
the hand of God in giving me this Mission
to enable me to get the geneology of my
kindred, as I have been at a loss how to
proceed with my work in the Temple.
	Now may Heaven’s choicest blessings
be and abide with you dear sisters, is the
fervent prayer of your devoted sister.
					WILLMIRTH EAST.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LADY SOMERSET is as indefatigable a
worker as Miss Willard. During the last
year she held 115 meetings, 27 conferences,
traveled over 8,000 miles, spoke in twenty
counties to about 200,000 people, besides
being one of the editors of The Woman's
Signal.
	MRS. S. S. WETHERBEE, of Kansas,
writes to the Union Signal: “There are
now 767 prisoners in our State prison, and
of that number only fourteen are women.
And yet women are such a dangerous class
they cannot be trusted with the ballot!”
	THE old joke about the inability of a
woman to drive a nail has passed into silent
and sympathetic dust. The other day a
farmer’s wife, three miles west of town,
successfully shingled the entire one side of
her dwelling-house while her husband was
in town looking up a carpenter.—Oklahoma
Tribune.
	MISS WILLARD and Miss Gordon re-
turned to “The Eagle’s Nest” chalet, in
the Catskill Mountains, July 27, where
they will have two stenographers, and con-
tinue their work for the W. C. T. U. Miss
Willard is to complete her “Handbook of
History and Methods,” her booklet on
“How I Learned the Bicycle, with reflec-
tions by the Way,” and, besides preparing
her annual address, she will send out leaflets
and articles for the press, and will write
an editorial each week for the Union Signal,
the organ of the White Ribbon movement,


IN MEMORIAM.
	AT her residence, in Franklin, Oneida Co.
Idaho, Mrs.  Arabella Ann Chandler Parkinson,
departed this life at 10 o’clock p. m. August 9,
1894. Aged 70 years 5 months and 13 days.
	She was born Feb. 27, 1824 at Cheltenham.
Glostershire England. She embraced the Gospel
in her native place in 1842. She was the daugh-
ter of George Chandler and Esther Glover Chan-
dler. She left her native land for the Gospel’s
sake, arriving at St. Louis, Mo. 1851. Jan. 1st
1852 she was married to Samuel Rose Parkinson,
who survives her. In 1854 she with her husband
came to Utah, locating at Kaysville, Davis Co.,
remaining there six years. In 1860 she removed
to Franklin, where she passed away.
	She endured many hardships and privations
incident to settling in a new place. She was the
mother of nine children, eight of whom, four sons
and four daughters, survive her.
	Of her family it may truthfully be said, they are
noble, faithful sons and daughters, and her last
days were her best days, in seeing her posterity
walking in the ways of the Lord, aud striving to
serve Him. Among them is George C. Parkin-
son, President of the Oneida Stake of Zion.
But the mother love strong within her, recognized
that these children every one of them, were the
jewels that should shine in her crown forever-
more. She also leaves thirty one grandchildren,
and one great grand child. She was the last one
of her family of thirteen children, and the only
one of her father’s house to stand in holy places,
and be a savior on Mount Zion. She honored
all the institutions of God, living for many years
in the Patriarchal order of marriage. She cared
for the needy and sad of God’s children, honor-
ing the office of Presideut of the Relief Society
of Franklin.
	Her funeral was held in the Franklin Meeting
House, on Sunday August 12, 1894, under the
supervision of Bishop Hatch. It was largely
attended, not only from Franklin, but many of
the settlements where she was widely known and
respected.
	The services commenced by the choir singing
“Mourn not the dead.” Prayer by Thomas
Smart. Singing, “Sister thou wast mild and
lovely.”
	The first speaker was Counselor M. F. Cowley
of the Stake Presidency, who spoke words of
comfort to the bereaved, bearing testimony of her
many virtues, and noble life; also gave good in-
structions to the saints, and closed by saying she
had been faithful to the end, and was among
those whom the Apostle John saw, “They had
come up through great tribulations, having
washed their robes white in the blood of the
Lamb.
	Bishop Hatch followed, echoing the sentiments
of the first speaker, and added his blessing to the
husband and bereaved children. Elder William
Smart followed, bearing testimony of her so
gently passing away, saying that this was in ful
fillment of the prophecy, that the saints should
not taste of death. Elder Charles Hobbs said
he was numbered with her in the little branch in
Cheltenham. Told of the joy they had experi-
enced in bearing testimony of Jesus and the
truth of the Gospel.
	A quartette of male voices rendered “Shall
we meet beyond the river.”
	Elder Isaac Nash, read an original poem, com-
posed by himself for the occasion, also made
some comforting remarks. Counselor S. H
Hale of the Stake Presidency, also spoke words
of esteem and affection.
	The impressive services were closed by the
choir singing “O, my Father,” and the benedic-
tion by Dr. Parkinson of Logan.
	Many hundreds of her friends passed by the
beautiful white casket, laden with choice flowers,
and took their last farewell of the peaceful sleeper
therein.
	About seventy vehicles followed to the ceme-
tery, on the slope of a hill. Counselor S. H.
Hale, dedicated the spot for her rest, until the
trump of God shall sound, and the dead in the
Lord shall rise to life, immortality and eternal
lives.					COMMUNICATED.


[Column 1]
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her next class
in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Wednesday, Oct. 10.
Address, 34 East Fifth South. Telephone 383.

[Column 2]
GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS.
Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:

Leave Salt Lake:
10:20 a. m.
2:00 p. m.
Arrive Salt Lake:
*4:00 p. m.
4:40 "
*Daily except Sunday.

Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening. Fare round trip 50c.
S. H. H. Clark,
Oliver W. Mink,
E. Ellery Anderson,
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Condert.
}Receivers. [written to the right of the five above names]
D. E. BURLEY
GEN. AGT. PASS. DPET.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
WILL OPEN HER
School in Obstetrics and Nursing,
MONDAY, OCTOBER 8th, 1894.
FOR PARTICULARS, COMMUNICATE IN PERSON OR BY LETTER.
Zo. 18 Main St, - Salt Lake City.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R. K. THOMAS

SALT LAKE SCHOOL OF
OBSTETRICS.

	THE winter term of this school will com-
mence Oct. 9th, 1894, and will continue
for twenty weeks. The instruction will
embrace a thorough cause in Midwifery and
nursing in which the student will be pre-
pared for practical work Tuition ten dollars
the necessary book six dollars.
	Address Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp, 34 S. 7th,
East Street, for any information desired.

DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But’
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
