Vol. 23.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. MAY 1, 1895.		No. 19.


CONTENTS:
	Revolutionary Types Of Women Of The Re-
public—Kate Brownlee Sherwood. Arbor Day—
Sarah J. Elliott. A Word From Castle Dale—
Caroline A. Larsen. Ex Governor Thomas. Kate-
Field’s Opinion. Relief Society Conference—
E. B. Wells. R. S. Reports. W. H. P. R. Class
—Mary Young. Parowan Items—E. Crane Wat-
son. Woman Suffrage Column—Minnie Adams
Party At Lynne—Sarah A. Thomas. Notes And
News. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Equal Suffrage In The Constitu
tion. The Coming of Miss Anthony. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—The Best—E. T. My Garden—
Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Of Thee I Dreamed—
—Hyacinth. The Explosion—Amy E. Cook.


THE BEST.

YOU ask me when I loved the best
	After twenty or before.
I’ll take a moment for retrospect
	And view my Life’s Loves o’er.
My child-hood’s loves, the first for mother,
	The loves for sister and for brother—
Then the maiden’s love,
	For the lover that came to woo,
And the wife’s love, when I left
	The old life for a new.
They were all true loves,
	 That will live forever and aye,
That will not perish as earthly things
	That fade and pass away;
The best of loves, true and sincere,
	Came to me ere my twentieth year
But after twenty the crown of all
	Came to my life at my baby’s call.
								E.T.


[Column 1]
MY GARDEN.

IT is time now to plant my garden.
	This morning I stepped outside,
And a warm wind gently blowing
	From the south-land far and wide,
Came whispering softly ’round me,
	“The blue birds and robins are here,
The sparrows are building their nests,and
	There’s nothing whatever to fear.”

Then I went where my last year’s flowers
	Had scattered their seeds around.
And already the eager leaflets
	Were pushing above the ground;
And on vines late bowed with snow drifts
	The leaf buds with warmth were swelling
And high in the tree tops joyous birds
	Their riotous joy were telling.

And everything seemed to say, “Come out
	Leave your window’s Easter lilies,
Come out in the hills and see what waits
	Where each crystal, rippling rill is,
Come take us cowslips out of the damp
	And the ferns from out the shadows,
We violets and sweet buttercups
	From out the spreading meadows.
Come take us blue bells from the side
	Of mountain slopes so lonely,
We’ll bloom for you and bless your care
	With odors for you only.
And if you will, the birds you love
	Will surely, singing follow
From out the deep and rocky glades,
	And every grassy hollow.

[Column 2]
E’en while you sleep, we, all awake
	While hours of might are going,
Like fairy tale, will softly work
	Some charm for morning’s showing.
Ingratitude for care bestowed
	Is not in floral natures,
Nor murmurs of dull discontent,
	As come from human creatures.

Come, set us by your city plants
	And e’en we simple daisies,
Their glowing colors will offset
	By our own modest graces;
And o’er your roses vivid bloom
	And glowing beds of pansies,
Our feathered soloists shall sing
	Your praise in sweetest stanzas.

Come, bring the wild clematis home
	Down from the Weber river,
'Twill match Virginia creeper’s green
	And fairy white wreaths give her
Bring rushes from the Jordan’s side
	Where once you went a-riding,
And columbines from City Creek
	in rocky fastness hiding.

And down among your hot house plants
	Find place for beds of mosses,
The pampas grass will shield them well,
	The while her plumes she tosses;
And stately lilacs pink and white
	Will make no proud complaining,
For humming birds coquetting ’round
	Will soothe the least disdaining.

Then when you’ve planted these and more;
	(Nor mignonette forgetting,)
Come when the weary day is done
	And moonlight’s softly setting
Your Garden’s picture framed in dusk
	And birds are hushed in slumbers;
Come, sit with those you love, and list
	To music’s gentle numbers.

Come, and thy soul led gently on
	To rest and poet’s dreaming,
The sense of bliss thy toil hath wrought
	Shall real be-not seeming,
And they who gather ’round thee then
	Shall learn the worth of beauty,
And by their presence at its shrine
	Praise love made fair through duty.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
April 2nd, 1895.


REVOLUTIONARY TYPES OF WO-
MEN OF THE REPUBLIC.

[Read, at the National Council of Women,
Washington, D. C.]
	THE women of the Republic are the
direct heritors of the women of the Revolu-
tion. All talk of a new woman is a mere
fable. There is no new woman.
	Ever and always it is the same woman;
the woman who went forth from Eden with
never a flimsy excuse upon her lips; the
woman who sang thepaeons of the Exodus
the woman who spins among her maidens
while Ulysses roams the seas; the woman
who proves to her Roman neighbors the
redeeming power of Christianity upon a
husband by showing the healed wound up-
on her arm; the woman who launched the
bark of Columbus; the woman kneeling on
the bleak shores of Plymouth; the woman
who made the homespun suit for the in-
augural of her husband as first President
of the Republic; the woman who taught
that President, when yet a little lad, that it
is better to trust in the Lord than to put
confidence in princes.
	Blessed womanhood of the world! With-
out it earth would be a howling wilderness,
such as Dante saw and was afraid.
	Behold the women of the Revolution!
They roll the logs beside their husbands to
build their rude cabins; they sow, they reap,
they card and spin and make the garments
of the household; they rear rosy sons and
daughters; they teach them the Sermon on
the Mount—reverence for holy things, re-
spect for authority; courage, reliance, self-
control; but, above all, that it is the right
of every soul to be free to follow the dic-
tates of conscience, and that resistance to
tyrants is obedience to God.
	When the great conflict comes they are
ready, and when the husband and father
and the older sons join the patriot army
they gather their little ones around them,
and their faith and fortitude hold them true,
fleeing now from the hostile savages on the
wild frontier, now from the the harrying
Hessians scou ing through farms and ham-
lets, but oftener with busy wheel and
loom and kneading-board hoarding their
resources, their struggling country’s needs.
	Martha Washington kept thirteen spin-
ning-wheels running at Mount Vernon, to
make clothing for men, women, and child-
ren. Women in the towns banded them-
selves together to wear homespun, to give
up laces and frills of foreign make—just as
men gave up their ruffled shirts and their
broadcloth and their silken hose. And let
it stand forever to the credit of the women
of the Revolution that, in the darkest
hours of the struggle for independence,
when plottings and conspiracies were under-
mining the influence of Washington and
tying the hands of the Continental Con-
gress, they never lost their confidence and 
courage, but fed, clothed, and inspired
with never-failing hope the barefoot patri-
ots of Trenton and Valley Forg .
	John Quincy Adams, in a speech before
the United States Congress, asserting the
rights of women to petition on political
subjects, said, “The voice of history
speaks, trumpet-tongued, of the daring and
intrepid spirit of patriotism burning in the 
bosom of the woman of that day.” Yet
when we search for facts concerning wo-
man’s part in the history of the Revolu-
tion, it is like culling flowers by the
flashes of midnight lightning. Washington
Irving, the beloved, has not so much as a
word even for Martha Washington’s work
at Mount Vernon.
	As in all times and nations, the women
of the Revolution must be studied chiefly
through the deeds of their husbands and 
fathers, in the reflected light of their sons
and daughters. They were the supporting
columns of the Revolution, investing the
patriot army as the gods of Olympus did
he contending hosts of Troy.


[Column 1]
Of all the men of the Revolution who
signed the Declaration of Independence,
there is but one who was early orphaned
and without a patriot mother but he was
early wedded to a woman who was wife
and mother in one in all that was strong
and sweet and wise and helpful and self-
sacrificing. The mothers of Washington
and Adams and Jefferson were especially
great and a historian of the period says,
“If the Adamses were more pronounced
patriots than the Dickenses, it was because
the women of the family were less afraid
of the executioner’s axe.”
	Whether among the exiled Scotch-Irish
of North Carolina, the persecuted Catholics
of Maryland, forbidden to teach their
children in their own schools, in a colony
they had founded on religious toleration,
the Quakers and Huguenots and Palatin-
ates of Pennsylvania, the freedom-loving
Hollanders of New York, or the Puritans
of New England, the history of the women
of the Revolution is deep graven with the
deeds of men on the foundation-stone of the
Republic.
	Education in those days began at the
mother’s knee the object lessons were
example and precept rather than book and
rule In Jefferson’s resolve never to en-
gage, while in public office, in any enter-
prise to improve his fortune, is reflected the
brave mother, Mary Randolph, who taught
her children to live the songs of freedom
she sang to them so sweetly beside the
blazing log fires of old Virginia.
	George Washington inherited his military
genius from his father through a long line
of Norman warriors; from his mother his
indomitable will, his imperious temper, his
endurance, his practical insight into the
affairs of men. When, allured by the
spirit of adventure, he was about to enter
the British Navy, she turned his attention
to civil engineering, through which he was
trained for the rigors of a seven years’ war.
	His faith in the triumph of right and
sublime modesty in success was illustrated
in his mother when Lafayette called upon
her, after Cornwallis’s surrender, to con-
gratulate her upon the victories of her son
—“I am not surprised at what George has
done; he always was a good boy.”
	Washington’s reverence for his mother
was shown when he hastened to her side
upon his election as first President of the
Republic. “Go, George,” was her good-
bye, ‘‘fill the destiny Heaven has assigned
you you have your mother s blessing now
as in the past. You will see me no more.”
And the hero of the continents laid his
head on his mother’s breast and wept like
a child.
	Show me your ideal woman of the Revo-
lution and I will show you the woman of
which she was the prototype. Conditions
change—womanhood never!
	Do you tell me of Elizabeth Schuyler,
wife of Alexander Hamilton, the Nestor
of the Revolution, his counselor, secretary,
compiler of his records, who preserved the
manuscripts of 1775—1804. acquired by
the government in 1849,and which brought
to light the true history of revolutionary
events?
	Then, I will tell you of Jessie Benton
Fremont, wife of the great “Pathfinder,”
who led his famishad men over the snow-
capped Rockies to richer conquest than did
Hannibal crossing the Alps. I will tell
you how a brave young daughter of a
United States Senator gave up the pleasures
of the capital to follow the fortunes of a

[Column 2]
fearless explorer; to cheer him in his
perilous campaigns of exploration, in the
savage conflicts of the political arena, on
the sanguine field of battle, keeping his re-
cords, compiling his reports, preserving his
memoirs for the grateful day to come.
	Do you tell me of Hannah Adams, the
woman of higher education, the first Ameri-
can woman to make literature a profession,
whose work on the religions of the world
gave her precedence in England overall
the men of letters of America?
	Then I will tell you of Maria Mitchell,
walking among the stars, leading the
scientists of the world, winning the medals
of kings and potentates.
	Do you point out the woman who has
taken upon herself holy vows, Elizabeth
Bollinger Collins, stirring up her followers
to purity of life, and exemplifying in her
conduct the truths she committed to others?
	Then I will tell you of Lucretia Mott,
persecuted for righteousness’ sake the
purest, sweetest, whitest soul in all the
swelling retinue of women who emulate
her virtues and carry on her work.
	Do you tell me of her whose blessed
mission it is to "cheer and comfort and
command?” Of Harriet Chew, whom
Washington chose as a companion when he
sat for Gilbert Stuart’s celebrated portrait,
because, as he tells us, “her genial conver-
sation will give my countenance its most
agreeable expression” lovely and excellent
Harriet Chew, to whom we owe that per-
petual peace upon the benignant face of
Washington!
	Then I will tell you of Harriet Dane,
that beautiful spirit of light flashing
through the sombre shadows of Buchanan’s
administration or of that marvel of the
World's Fair era, Bertha Honore Palmer,
winning the plaudits of two continents by
the imperial power of womanly graces.
	Do you tell me of Ann Gooch, of Virginia,
mother of the great Thomas L. Benton,
who taught her son to be pure in his life
and habits as a girl who in all his long
public life, when the standard of manhood
was trailed lower than now never drank,
smoked, or gambled because he promised
his mother never to do so?
	Then I will tell you of Lucy Webb
Hayes, holding to her convictions through
storms of calumny and ridicule, never to
place the wine-cup on a table of her serv-
ing; Lucy Webb Hayes, whose smile was a
benediction, whom men loved, women
praised, and little children, rising up,
called blessed.
	Do you tell me of ‘‘Mother” Bailey,
searching for the wounded among the mass-
acred at Fort Griswold, bringing the wife
and the child to receive the last blessing of
the dying patriot?
	I will tell you of “Mother” Bickerdyke,
on the battlefield at midnight, holding
down her lantern to the faces of the dead,
lest, perchance, some poor wounded boy
had been left by the stretcher-bearer to die
alone and uncomforted.
	Do you tell me of Sarah Franklin Bache,
daughter of Benjamin Franklin, minister-
ing with her own hands to the sick and
wounded in the Philadelphia hospitals,
collecting food and money and medicine,
directing twenty-two hundred women in
the sewing rooms, making garments for
Washington’s half-clad army, yet withal
the helpful mother of a brood of little
children, and the exemplar of domestic
virtues held up by Marquis de Chastillux to
the women of France?

[Column 3]
	I will tell you of the deeds of Dorothea
Dix, of Mary A. Livermore, of Clara Bar-
ton, of the women innumerable of Boston,
New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Cin-
cinnati, Chicago, of the whole mighty
North of the aid societies and sanitary
commissions and the millions of dollars
they raised and expended in time of war
of the homes they have founded, the hos-
pitals they have built, the hosts they have
comforted and assisted since the dawn of
peace.
	Yes, and I will tell you of the women of
the South of their hardships and priva-
tions in the cause they believed to be right
of the sacrifices they made, beyond the
sacrifices of the women of the North, be-
cause of their isolation and lack of means
—sacrifices reflecting undying splendor up-
on the courage and endurance and faith of
the womanhood of America.
	Do you tell me of that strong woman of
the judicial head and the gentle heart,
Abagail Adams, first American patriot to
declare for independence, first to demand
better care for women in the laws of the
Republic that grand woman, maligned by 
pretty politicians, scorned by the ignorant
and tyrannical.
	I will tell you of Lydia Maria Child, the
first American to write a book demanding
the emancipation of the slave, and press
the rights of women over whose bier
Wendell Phillips said, “She was the kind
of woman one would, choose to represent
woman's entrance into broader life—modest,
womanly, sincere, solid, real, loyal, to be
trusted, equal to affairs and yet above them,
a companion with the password of every
science and all literature.”
	Beautiful are the women of the Revolu-
tion in the reflected light of their daughters.
Lucretia Mott, chosen by the United States
humanitarians to represent the Republic in
the World’s Anti-Slavery Society in Lon-
don, denied a seat because she was a wom-
an, and raising a storm of indignation
which has opened the schools and colleges
and conventions of the world to women.
	Jane Gray Swisshelm, whose printing-
office was mobbed in Pittsburg and its con-
tents thrown in the river because she de-
manded the repeal of the old chattel laws
in Pennsylvania relating to women and
children, thus starting an agitation that led
to humane legislation. Lucy Stone, howled
down by a mob in New York, yet living to
see the day when she was carried in the
arms of that magnificent army of women,
of whose cause she was the pioneer, at the
World’s Fair Congress of Women. Julia
Dent Grant, going down with the general
of the armies under the guns of Vicksburg,
to give her personal support to Annie
Wittenmeyer, bearing comfort to the wound-
ed men in the neglected field hospitals.
Anna Ella Carroll, true to the name and
fame of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, free-
ing her slaves to convert her patrimony into
literature appealing to Maryland, by all her
glorious past, to hold herself true to the
Union. Anna Ella Carroll, counselor of
Lincoln and Stanton, author of the Tennes-
see campaign, for whose reward her country
gave a cot in a free hospital and the martyr’s
entrance into the ranks of the immortals.
Susan B. Anthony, tried and fined for vot-
ing at the Presidential election of 1872—a
fine that still stands unpaid, because those
who passed sentence believed her plea that
“resistance to tyranny is obedience to
God.”
	But, like Paul, what shall I more say?


For the time would fail me to tell of all
those who, through faith, have subdued
kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained
promises, escaped the edge of the sword,
out of weakness were made strong, of
whom the world was not worthy; of the
women who have let the oppressed go free,
who have girdled the earth with a white
ribbon, who have opened the harems and
zenanas of the Old World, who are found-
ing homes and reformatories and hospitals
and schools; who are standing by the
strikers and the labor unions, and assert
the might of right against the right of
might; who proclaim the glad message of
peace at home and abroad; who are destined,
in the providence of God, to make and
keep this American Republic the land of
happy hearts and busy lives, and the im-
partial dispenser of every good and perfect
gift ordained of Heaven and esteemed of
men.
	KATE BROWNLEE SHERWOOD.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the Woman's Exponent:
OF THEE I DREAMED.

TO GERANIUM.
 I DREAMED at eventide,
	While zephyrs round me sighed,
A voice sweet with cadence stole,
	Over my sleeping soul,
Bidding my woes depart,
	Waking my unborn heart,
To life and ecstacy.
	Breathing words strangely sweet,
That seemed with truth replete,
	Of joys and hopes to be,
When present shadows flee,
	Foretelling happiness,
. Secured by love’s caress,
	Sweet Spirit of my dream,
		With thee.

Say not that I must wake,
	Nor of this bliss partake,
When every thought is thine,
	And thy dear words are mine;
Tho’ we are still unknown,
	Within each heart are sown,
Seeds of true constancy.
	Come, e’er the shades of night,
Darken love’s radiant light,
	That gleams for us afar,
Our faithful guiding star, 
	A gift from heav’n divine,
That will forever shine,
	Sweet Spirit of my dream,
		For thee.
							HYACINTH.
February 3, 1895.


THE EXPLOSION.

IT was nearing the close of a busy day,
In the Almy Village not far away:
When the faithful wife with tender care
Hastened the evening meal to prepare.
The kettle sings its cheerful song,
And the children are helping with supper along
For papa all day has been driving the drill
in the deep dark mine beneath the hill,
Thankful for work to earn his bread.
That his darlings at home may be clothed and few
Tis joy to prepare for that fathers return,
Who labors his household comfort to earn.
Things are moving on thus in the usual way
Toward the close of that busy day.
But hark! A sound falls on the ear,
And the stoutest heart stands still with fear
One mother springs forward, in agony wild


Closely clasping her terrified child.
Another, pale, silent, breathes but a moan,
As she gazes upward like statue of stone,
On that huge black cloud that is rising high
Awfully grand, ’gainst the clear blue sky.
For O, what words are needed to tell
Of the father’s grave ’tis a funeral knell,
Who a moment before was strong, bright and gay
Just preparing to leave the work of the day.
And lure him away to his family nest.
Where father, mother and child might rest,
But the fire damp, gathered with deadly power
Prepared the grim monster an opportune hour,
With three score strong men in his path
Dashes along in his terrible wrath,
Spreading death and carnage in his rear,
Bedewing his path with the orphan’s tear,
Torn away the strength of many a home,
Leaving tender children and mothers alone
For those whoes freed spirits went home that day
Perhaps, yes we hope, in a painless way—
We have naught to fear, for God is just,
And meet the reward of their works they must, 
But sympathies tears unbidden start,
While their sorrows are echoed from heart to
	heart,
Too plainly in fancy we see the bowed head
And the mother lie down in her widowed bed
We pray to that Father who reigns on high
Who has promised to list to the orphan’s cry,
Pour balm, O Lord, on their souls to night,
With thy loving care direct them'right,
That He’ll comfort and guide all along the way
Is the heart felt prayers all Israel pray,
And all honor be to that noble band
Who bravely faced the grim monster death
Who had snatched away their comrades breath
These brought them forth to an honored grave,
Such men must be counted the truly brave.
						AMY E. COOK.


ARBOR DAY.

Dear Editor:
WE name this tree in honor of Mrs. E.
B. Wells, Editor of the Woman’s EX-
PONENT.  A paper devoted to the “rights
of women of all nations.” Mrs. Wells
works hard for suffrage. She says, “There
are more women in Utah who own homes
and pay taxes than in any other place, with
the same number of people, hence they
ought to vote.”
	“Taxation without representation is
Tyranny,” and we plant this yellow ribbon
tree to keep this thought ever before us.
	MOAB, April 15th 1895.—Arbor Day,
should bring to all children many lessons,
and I trust this one, our first, will be most
fruitful. We chose wise teachers, worthy
soldiers, foremost minds—whose names
are sweet upon the lips of time.” And I
can assure you dear editor you are in very
good company.
	The boys chose Columbus, De Soto, Lin-
coln, Grant, Garfield, Webster, Clay, Edi-
son, Morse, Karl Maeser, Queen Isabella.
While for my Primary school I suggested,
Mary and Martha Washington, Frances
Willard, Elizabeth Grannis, Froeber, Field,
Washington, our school poet, Longfellow,
Clara Barton, (with whom I lived five
months at Johnstown after the flood) Susan
B. Anthony, Eliza R. S. Smith and your-
self as representing Utah.  So you are, in
Moab with the “Immortals.” How I
should like to be with you in May and
should my school close in time it is not un-
likely.  I have heard Miss Anthony often
in Pennsylvania as well as Rev. A. Shaw,
the last time I met her was in Norriston


Pennsylvania.  Miss Anthony’s sister was
at Johnstown when I was and we had
many talks about her illustrious sister.  God
bless her.
  
	I feel that if each tree were decorated
with an appropriate symbol, the object
lesson would be greater, so we had yellow
ribbon on your’s and Miss Anthony’s tree,
blue for Miss Willard, white for Mrs.
Grannis, a red cross flag on Miss Barton’s,
national flags on soldiers, the colors of-
Spain on Spanish discoverers, pink ribbons
for poets, cardinals for educators, electric
blue for inventors. The banner of Ferdi-
nand and Isabella on Queen Isabella’s tree.
So you will understand the reference to yel-
low ribbon.
	Thanks for information about Mrs.
Smith.  I took my sketch of her, from your
paper also “Her Ode to Liberty” which we
recited.
	I subscribe to so many home publications
I cannot afford many here but I must have
a Suffrage paper of this locality.  With
thanks and the hope we may some day see
you in Moab, l am, Yours Sincerely,
				SARAH J. ELLIOTT.


A WORD FROM CASTLE DALE.

Editor Exponent:
	WHILE I am sitting alone I feel impressed
to write a few lines to your valuable paper,
my thoughts go back to the time when I
first came to this valley, how desolate and
barren it looked. I stood on the bank of
the creek, and looking around saw nothing
but the naked hills and the ground all cov-
ered with sage brush and prickly pears, not
a tree, except a few cottonwoods along the
creek and a hut or dugout here and there to
shelter the few people that had come here to
make their home; we heard no birds sing,
except the song from the owl and you know
that is not a very pleasing one, but through
the blessings of the Lord and much hard
labor in which many of the sisters have had
a goodly share, the land has produced in
its strength for our need, the orchards are
now doing fine, we have raised some very
delicious fruits in Castle Dale, and according
to the statement from the Fair Salt Lake
City last fall, we have raised larger cabbage-
heads and onions than were presented there.
	The Relief Society of this place was or-
ganized with but few members, but the
numbers increased with the settlers, and
the ladies of Castle Dale are striving to do
their best to help roll on the work of the
Lord, we expect to have our Society Hall
finished this spring, the presiding women of
this stake are faithful in visiting the dif-
ferent associations in spite of the rough and
rocky road. In this valley, we have had a
few deaths in the new year, may the Lord
comfort those that mourn the loss of their
loved ones, may they remember the words
of the Savior, blessed are they that die in.
the Lord for they shall rest from their labors
and their works shall follow them, and of
the little children he says “of such is the
Kingdom of Heaven,” may we all be
prepared and have our lamps trimmed and
burning when the call comes, that our work
may not be in vain.
	The health of the people of Castle Dale
is good at present, the snow has disappeared
and spring is coming on.
			CAROLINE A. LARSEN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -     -        Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia).   Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $[-].00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal dis-
cout    regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter

			SALT LAKE CITY,   MAY 1, 1895.


[Column One] 
EQUAL SUFFRAGE IN THE CON-
STITUTION.

	IN the Constitutional Convention on the
morning of April 18th, the section on equal
suffrage which had passed its third reading
by a majority vote was brought up for re-
consideration, as had been previously de-
cided and the debate was limited to fifteen
minutes, so that the question was soon dis-
posed of without much argument on either
side. When the vote was taken it stood
sixty-nine to thirty-two, and the section as
originally formulated by the majority com-
mittee on Elections and Suffrage goes into
the Constitution of the New State giving
women equal political privileges with men.
On the same day the amendment for woman
suffrage passed in the state of New Jersey,
so that it really does seem to have been an
auspicious day for the cause.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony in a letter re-
ceived since the news reached her says,
“Hurrah for Utah No. 3, State—that estab-
lishes a genuine “Republican form of
Government.” I got the telegram just in
time Thursday evening to read it at our
city P. E. Club meeting, and there was a
big clapping of hands over it, then our
New Jersey State senate passed the amend-
ment bill the same afternoon, so we surely
may feel that the morning dawn streaks our
sky.”
	There will be great rejoicing over the
victory gained in Utah and it will certainly
be an encouragement to all those vho are
working for the enfranchisement of woman-
kind and the betterment of all mankind.
Certainly we as women are as deeply grateful
as it is possible to express without ostenta-
tion or display, but we appreciate in the
highest degree the efforts of the friends of
equal suffrage who so nobly stood by the
cause when so severely attacked by the
opposition. Some acknowledgement on be-
half of the women of this Territory is
eminently proper, and will assuredly be
made in good time, for the present, one feels
like being silently grateful to the Giver of
all good and hoping and praying that the
women of the new state may be wise,
prudent and cautious in the exercise of their
political rights.
	The newspapers have been usually on 
our side, but here and there opposition
bursts out—replying to some of these 
attacks and commenting upon speeches
made in the Convention the editor of the
MILLARD COUNTY BLADE has written some
vigorous articles, to which the writer’s'at-
tention has been drawn, and we thank him
very much for his able defense of the 

[Column Two]
principle, and for his kind and gracious 
words for all women. The following ex-
tract is from his editorial of April 10, 1895,
which we take great satisfaction in copy-
ing as it gives a dignified statement of wo-
man’s true position. 
	MITLARD COUNTY BLADE. 
	“The right that women have to equal
suffrage is above and beyond all “becauses,”
and especially where those “becauses” are
supposed to be involved in the political
rights of the sons of Ham. It is her right 
by virtue of her intelligence. It is her 
right by virtue of her superior morality and 
high standard of purity; a standard that 
man has not yet reached nor will ever reach
in politics until woman votes by his side. 
	Who is there that dare say, that thousands
of women who night, after night keep sleep-
less vigils and with tearful eye watch and 
wait for the return of the moral cowards of 
men that are spending their nights at the 
gaming tables,  are not as fully entitled to 
the franchise as their depraved life partners?
What male is there, that claims even the 
semblance of manhood, that would not ac-
cord equal political rights to her that, with
infinite sweetness and unwearied solicitude, 
bends over the couch of her sick child, and 
hour after hour and day after day nurses it 
back to life and health? The man that says
she is not as much entitled to suffrage
equally with the father that, mayhap, is 
snoring in bed, or carousing in some gin
mill, is a man only in his physical appear-
ance. A man that asserts she is not thus
entitled, is dead to every noble aspiration, to 
every progressive impulse and brands him-
self a back number that, by mischance, 
lives in an era that is several thousand years
in advance of the age to which he naturally
belongs.”


[Column 1]
THE COMING OF MISS ANTHONY.
	THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE.

	The visit of Susan B. Anthony to Salt
Lake City, will be an event of great impor-
tance, and one which those who know her
personally, will hail with joy, and certainly
those who have never had the pleasure of
hearing her before, will come eagerly to
listen to her grandly simple eloquence.
Miss Anthony is a rare personality, dis-
tinctively original in style, and charming in
her quaker simplicity of dress and de-
meanor. She has not only grown old
gracefully, but intellectually, she shows in
every line of her face and every curve of
her straight and slender figure, that attain-
ment of wisdom and strength of mind and
character which denotes unusual develop-
ment of the soul. Miss Anthony’s powers
of endurance are something wonderful; if
weary she recuperates quickly, and never
excuses herself from duty. Of her it may
truly be said, “she is one of the most
heroic figures in American history.” But
Miss Anthony will very soon be here now;
on the 12th of May she is expected to arrive,
and we hope the public will turn out
enmasse, to see and hear her, and those of
her party who will make the trip with her,
and who will be expected to take part in
the Conference, to be held in this city on
the 13th and 14th of May.
	The Rev. Anna Shaw who will accom-
pany Miss Anthony, is a woman of superior
attainments and marked ability. She is an
M. D., as well as a D. D., her history even

[Column 2] 
in brief is most interesting; she is bright,
vivacious, versatile and humorous. Miss
Shaw besides her titles, D. D. aud M. D. is
vice-Presideut at large of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association,
and also vice-President of the National
Council of Women, and holds other posi-
tions of honor but of less importance. She
was born in Newcastle on Tyne England,
but came to America with her parents
when four years old, and settled in Mass.,
later on they moved to Michigan; Miss
Shaw entered Albion College Michigan in
1872 and in 1875 entered the theological
department of the Boston University from
which she graduated in 1878. While in the
theological class she studied on week days,
and preached on Sundays. During her last
year she was paster of the Methodist
Episcopal Church of Hingham, Mass. Her
second pastorate was in East Dennis on
Cape Cod, where she remained seven years.
During this time a Congregational Church
without a pastor asked her to supply the
place until a minister could be obtained for
the position, but the congregation were so
well pleased with her services that she con-
tinued for six years to preach twice every
Sunday, in her own Church in the morn-
ing, and in the Congregational Church in
the afternoon.
	During that time she applied to the New
England Methodist Episcopal Church for
ordination, but was refused on account of
sex; though she passed the best examination
of any candidate; the case was appealed to
the general conference in Cincinnati in 1880
and the refusal confirmed. The lady then
applied to the Methodist Protestant Church
and received ordination on the 12th of
October 1880—the first woman ordained in
that denomination.
	Later Miss Shaw became more deeply
nterested in practical reforms, and took to
the lecture field on reform topics; she has
sometimes been reproached for not devoting
herself to preaching the Gospel, but her
answer is “that in adovcating the enfran-
chisement of women, the temperance
movement and other reforms she is teach-
ing applied Christianity, and that she has
exchanged the pulpit where she preached
twice a week, for the platform where she
preaches every day and often three times
on Sunday.”
	The other ladies coming are from Colora-
da and Wyoming and are fine speakers, and
also voters in their respective States.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Sister Zina D. H. Young General Presi-
dent of the Relief Society and her Counse-
lor Sister Jane S. Richards, also Sister E.
S. Taylor, General President of the Y. L.
M. I. A. went to Logan the 18th, to attend
the Sisters Conferences at that place, the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. and had
a pleasant time and interesting meetings.
	SISTERS Mary Ann Hyde President
Relief Society, Sanpete Stake, accompanied
by Sister Mary E. Irvine left this City,
April 17—to attend the Relief Society Con-
ference of Emery Stake held at Castle Dale
and also held other meetings at Hunting-
ton and Price. The sisters had a pleasant
journey except that the roads were very
rough for a woman so advanced in years as
Sister Hyde, yet she came back as happy
and buoyant as a young woman. They re-
turned April 23rd.

[Handwritten]
Howard


THE speech of Hon. F. S. Richards
made in the Constitutional Convention—has
been published in pamphlet form and is now
ready for circulation. It needs no eulogy
from us it is a clear comprehensive and dig-
nified address, and we hope will be read by
all the people of the Territory as well as
elsewhere, whether they believe in equal
suffrage or not, as it is always well to
examine both sides of every subject care-
fully in order not to be misled All
W.S. Auxiliary Associations should send for
the pamphlets and see to distribut-
ing copies in their respective counties. The
pamphlet can be obtained at the Exponent
Office, Room 228, Constitution Building.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EX. GOVERNOR THOMAS.

	“I WAS the chairman of the committee
on resolutions appointed by the last Re-
publican convention. I have a very clear
recollection of the action of the committee
in relation to the granting of equal suffrage
to women. Twenty-five of the twenty-
seven counties of the Territory were re-
presented on the committee. The large
majority of the members were not of the
class usually denominated politicians. They
seemed to me to be men who acted from
conviction. I believe the woman suffrage
plank was inserted in the platform because
the majority of the committee thought it
was right to place it there, and the manner
in which it was received by the convention
showed, I think, that the large majority of
the Convention thought so too. No other
resolution received such strong manifesta-
tions of approval.
	“With all due respect to the delegates in
the Constitutional Convention, representing
both political parties, who make the charge
that the woman suffrage plank was inserted
in the platform for the purpose of “catching
votes,” I deem it but just to say that in
my opinion, so far as the action of the Re-
publican committee is concerned, the charge
has no foundation in fact. It was, I believe,
an honest expression of the opinion of the
large majority of the committee and con-
vention.
	“I know of no pressure that was brought
to bear upon the committee in relation to
the matter.”


KATE FIELD’S OPINION.

	THE current issue of Kate Field’s Wash-
ington, in the department headed “My
Mail Bag," contains the following.
	The woman's edition microbe has at-
tacked Salt Lake City, which is not strange,
as it first appeared in San Francisco:
	Will you write a short article on any subject
most pleasing to you for publication in a charity
edition of the————for April 28? However
brief it may be, an article of whatever nature
over your signature will be an attractive feature
for Salt Lake people, and for “sweet charity.” I
feel that your heart will respond at once; you will
see by the heading the work I am engaged in.
Your friends here are all well, and would love to
see you here. Don’t you ever think of coming
this way? Judge Goodwin is as witty as ever,
and is doing good work in the convention. We
are going to call an Anti-Suffrage meeting
Thursday and expect to have great fun. Wish
you could be here.
						GENTILE.
	The motto of the Associated Charities,
for which my friend appeals, is “To help
and not to pauperize.” I believe so 
thoroughly in that motto as to be forced to


say “no,” in order to save myself from
being eligible to associated charities nearer 
home. I feel that I have done my duty to
Utah. I have helped her to put herself in
harmony with the Union, and now I want
a little reciprocity. I don’t doubt the clever
editor of the Salt Lake Tribune is doing
good work in the Constitutional Convention.
It’s a way he has. As to the fun of the
anti-suffrage meeting I don’t see, from any
point of view, where it comes in. It was
useless, I’m glad to note. For Mormons
to deprive women of the ballot after women
had voted for twenty years under the reign
of Brigham Young and his successor would
be an outrage. Gentiles oppose the ballot
for women because they believe that Mor-
mon women will vote according to the
Priesthood. So to parry a possible evil
they are ready to deprive all women of
political equality. If Mormen women can’t
be trusted, Mormon men are equally dan-
gerous. Two wrongs don’t make a right.
More harm must come from injustice to one
whole sex than from giving power to those
who may add great strength to the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I’m
willing to run the risk. It is always safe
to do right. With woman suffrage even I,
might be induced to become a citizen of
Utah. Perhaps this possibility furnishes
another potent reason—with some—for not
giving my sex the ballot.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City, Thursday April 4th, 1895,
President Zina D. H. Young presiding,
Sisters Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W.
Smith, M. Isabella Horne, E. B. Wells,
General Officers, with several Presidents of
Stakes and others were on the stand. Meet-
ing commenced at 10 a. m. with singing,
“Lord we come before thee now.” Prayer
was offered by Sister Horne, continued by
singing, “Do what is right.” Minutes of
morning meeting of previous conference
were read, by the Secretary. President
Young spoke a few minutes in her kind
motherly way, mentioned that it was the
Fast day but hoped the sisters had come
fasting to the conference as they would
have done, had they attended the fast meet-
ing, the Lord would bless those who had
come to the conference in that same spirit.
	President Mary Pitchforth of Juab Stake,
said they had recently held a Conference at
Nephi, and had an enjoyable time, she had
been very ill and was still feeble, but had
been healed through faith and the power of
the priesthood; referred to the young girls
who were coming forward to assist in the
Relief Society, and also of the help they
were in the Primary, spoke eloquently of
the advancement women were making in
various directions.
	President Mary A. Hyde Sanpete Stake
also spoke of the two days Conference held
recently, had visited the stake of late and
found all trying to do their best, thought it
was a time when we should look into our
own hearts, and put on the armor of
righteousness.
	Counselor Ann C. Woodbury St. George
Stake, felt it a pleasure to travel so far to
come and see the sisters, there were thirty-
eight on the train coming up to Conference,
they had started in a snow storm, referred
with much feeling to Sister Julia Ivins-
whose death had occurred a few months be
fore, her demise was a very great loss in
the society, she had been an active worker
in the Primary also, spoke of having
visited the Eastern part of their stake since
last conference; she alluded to the franchise
and said she wanted to see women get the
right to vote, made excellent remarks upon
silk culture.
	Counselor Lorinda Thompson of Millard
Stake, said they visited the different branches
as often as possible, some of the distances
were long and they had the disadvantage
of bad roads sometimes she felt very tired;
but generally found all doing their duty,
taking care of the sick, and saving grain;
at threshing time the sisters asked their
husbands for a bushel or two of wheat to
replenish their bins. Before she was called
to this position she had been sickly but
since had been able to do what was ex-
pected not only in the Relief Society but in
the Sunday School and the Primary, was
greatly exercised about the youth of Zion
had done her best to teach them correct
principles. President Elizabeth Bean,
Sevier Stake, said they had many poor in
their county who needed assistance, there
were sixty widows, she had taken consider-
able time visiting the several branches
in the Stake and getting everything in prop-
er order, hoped to have all the secretaries
keep uniform accounts. At their Conferences
they had always a lecture in the afternoon
on some church subject, each Society ap-
pointed one sister to lecture once a month
on some church subject, thought we should
educate the sisters to take care of the grain,
had herself had special instruction on the
subject, her stake was very large but hoped
to do her work thoroughly. Counselor
Minerva W. Snow of Sanpete spoke
specially of the work in the Manti Temple,
of the blessings received there and the union
that prevailed. Spoke of the fast meeting
the society held there in behalf of the sisters
who went to Washington, and felt their
prayers had been answered, dwelt much
upon humility and charity for each others
weaknesses.
	President Jane S. Richards, of Ogden,
reported Weber Stake as in excellent con-
dition she always had a good turn out at
their Conference in Weber Stake, the
Bishops were very helpful, and would come
and take the visiting sisters whenever they
wanted to go and hold meetings, sometimes
she felt the Society should be more ener-
getic and lead out in other directions.
	President Horne spoke for Salt Lake
Stake, in reference to the care of the needy
and afflicted a good work is being done, the
new regulations, or the  reorganization, so
as to be uniform in a national way, had made
some difference but it would soon become
better understood. Sister Horne bore a
good testimony of the Prophet Joseph, and
how glad she was to have heard him speak
as he did to the Relief Society in Nauvoo.
Mentioned Sister Woodbury and her ex-
perience in crossing the plains when she
was quite young, that she walked nearly all
the way through ravines, and all sorts of
places and when sitting down by the way,
she would empty the water out of her boots
and go on her way, never murmuring at
the hardships of the journey. Sister Horne
also spoke of the efforts being made to es-
tablish Kindergarten schools that all our
little ones might be taught in that method,
wanted each President in the County to
consider the matter and see what could be
done in her respective ward, and hoped all
would be united, though these schools


would be expensive to fit up with necessary
material.
	President Barber, of Cache Stake, could
report a good work spiritually, if not in
other ways, the temple was full of workers;
they had been disappointed in their silk
worm eggs last year, but hoped to have
better luck this year, and the sisters had
courage to do what was necessary in all
lines of work. Referred eloquently to the
geneological work being done here and else-
where related a dream touching upon this
subject.
	Counselor Reese, of Box Elder Stake,
spoke beautifully of their President Sister
Widerborg, represented the society every
branch as doing well, and told of their fine
granary filled with wheat to which they
were adding from year to year.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon the live
issue of the day the question of equal suf-
frage then pending in the Constitution,
referred to some conversation she had with
members of Congress on the subject, while in
Washington recently, had full faith that the
section on suffrage would be inserted in the
Constitution, believed in equal political
rights for men and women. Sister E. S.
Richards felt women were a power and
should be in this day and hour, perhaps the
opposition was necessary, but we should
do all we could to uphold the question and
be united and stand firm, referred to the ap-
preciation of Utah votes in convention in
Washington when she was there, Utah
standing next to New York, gave some ac-
count of proceedings in Chicago, Miss
Anthony had asked her to speak of our or-
ganizations and how proud she felt to
represent them.
	Mrs. Richards made a motion that all the
women who favored equal suffrage in the
Constitution stand, Mrs. Smith seconded, and
every woman in that large congregation
was on her feet immediately. Sang
Doxology, adjourned until 2 p. m. Bene-
diction by B. W. Smith.
					E. B. W ELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

PLEASANT VIEW.

Editor Exponent:
	KNOWING the interest you take in the
Relief Society of Utah in particular, and
in the advancement of womankind in
general. I venture after some delay to pen
 a few items from this settlement thinking
they may be of some interest.
	We were organized January 18th 1876.
Reorganized February 17th 1893. We
have forty members and twenty-nine are
working as a visiting committee. We feel
united in our efforts and desire to be one in
all our works, that the spirit of the Lord
may rest upon us in all our understandings.
	We have 162 bushels of wheat on hand,
and the sisters feel like increasing this a
little each year and doing their duty to-
wards the poor and needy.
	We commemorated the eighty-eighth
birthday of our beloved President Wilford
Woodruff, on March 1st, 1895. The Relief 
Society and the Young Ladies’ of this place
prepared a program suitable for the occas-
ion, consisting of songs, recitations, etc.,
with picnic included.
	All parties were invited, some non-mem-
bers taking parts in the program. We 
enjoyed ourselves well during the afternoon

[Column 2]
and evening.
	There were some lines composed for the
occasion, by Eliza P. Rhees, and read. I
was the desire of the Association that they
should be forwarded to the EXPONENT for
publication. If you would kindly insert
them in your valuable paper, realizing how
great is your mission, and wishing you suc-
cess in your every effort in the labors as-
signed you, we remain your fellow workers
in the good cause.
	MARY J. MAYCOCK, President.
	ELIZABETH RHEES, Secretary.

LINES COMPOSED TO PRESIDENT WILFORD
WOODRUFF ON HIS EIGHTY-EIGHTH
BIRTHDAY.

We hail thee our Prophet, Revelator, and Seer,
We love thee, we bless thee thy name we revere,
Among the most noble that's lived upon earth,
We know thou art numbered for thy wisdom and
	worth.
‘Tis eighty-eight years since the day of your
	birth,
When your spirit left Father and came to this
	earth,
To battle with error, darkness, and sin,
A crown of life, and victory to win.
In the days of your youth on missions you’ve
	been.
And called on mankind to repent of their sins,
To receive the glad message our Father has sent,
If in faith they receive it and truly repent—
Remission of sins to them would be given,
And prepare them if faithful for the kingdom of
	heaven,
When afflicted with sickness, privation and loss,
You was called by God’s servants to take up 
your cross,
And go to the nations the glad message to preach
A plan of salvation, the gospel of peace.
And while on that mission how great were you
	blessed,
Your labors were crowned with the greatest suc-
	cess. 
And many, yes many believed on your words
And the honest in heart were received of the
	Lord,
On the isles of the sea you’ve raised also your
	voice
And caused many honest in heart to rejoice[-]
In the year thirty-nine with a brave little band
You went to Far West to fulfill a command,
Which through revelation to them had been given
The corner stone of a temple must be laid to
	high heaven.
Though wicked men raged and endeavored to
	thwart
The plans of Jehovah and bring them to naught.
Filled with faith in their God they nobly marched
	on, 
Still praying and trusting till the great work was
	done.
And the South-East corner of that temple was
	laid,
With none to molest them or make them afraid,
And on the same day, and upon the same ground
Our dear Brother Woodruff with honor was
	crowned, 
Was ordained an apostle of Jesus our Lord,
The greatest of honor which on man is conferred.
And now at the head of this people he stands,
The mouth piece of God, and revelator to man.
Filled with honor, with love, and integrity grand,
He’s the favored of God, and the honored of
	man.
					ELIZA P. RHEES.

 BOX ELDER STAKE.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society, of Box Elder Stake, convened in

[Column 3]
the Tabernacle, Brigham City, on the 12th
of March. President Olivia Widerborg
presiding. Singing, “Our God we come to
Thee.” Prayer by Bishop A. A, Jensen
Singing: “We are not ashamed to own our
Lord.” Roll called, minutes read and ac-
cepted. Reports read from all the branches,
by Secretary Annie Wixom. Sister Han-
nah Harper: If we realize our mission here
on earth we would attend to our duties
when we do, we increase in faith.
	Treasurer Fannie Graehl read the report
of the Stake Treasury.
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker: I feel we gain
strength from our Heavenly Father in
meeting together.
	Sister Christine Jensen: If only we could
realize that we are the most blest people, we
sometimes will grumble, but then we would
never murmur.
	Sister Dewey: We read the Lectures on
Faith in the Doctrine and Covenants, we
also take the Deseret News.
	Sister Owens: We should be prayerful,
and not look at each others failings.
	Sister Watkins: We have good meetings,
it seems to me we have had an increase of 
the flow of the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister Widerborg announced that the
sisters of the Fourth Ward had prepared a
lunch for those from afar, in the vestry.
	Singing: “Truth reflects upon our
senses.” Benediction by Elder Lyman
Wight.
	Afternoon Session: Singing, “Once more
we come.” Prayer by Elder Crawford.
Singing, “Sweet is thy work, my God, my
King.”
	Condensed report read by Secretary
Annie Wixom.
	President Olivia Widerborg: My heart is
so full of gratitude to our Heavenly Father,
for His kindness to all of us, and for that
portion of the Spirit we enjoy today. If
you want to be the guardian angel of your
homes, even if you are wronged, do your
duty; our work is to relieve sorrow, suf-
fering and the needy and it is a work of
peace.
	Counselor Mary Wright: Charity is good,
if we have it in our bosom, it will increase
our faith.
	Sister Susannah Booth: We will all
have a reward for what good we do, if we
work together in unison and love.
	Sister Cecilia Nelsen: Sisters, do not be
afraid to give to those who need worse than
yourself, for the Lord will give you ten
fold back; once in a while we feel crushed,
and a kind word will be a blessing.
	Sister Ella Watkins: I felt to show my
willingness in doing my duty, or I should
not have been here. I think it quite a
responsibility to use wisely the means the
sisters have donated.
	Sister Harding: I know the Lord will
hear us, when we come before Him in the
spirit of humility.
	Sister Thorne: I believe we are trying to
do the best we can, in our weak way.
	Sister Mary Jansen: If we do a little good,
it is more benefit to ourselves, than those
we do it to.
	Sister Boden: I feel truly we have had 
a feast, it seems everyone who has spoken,
has  been filled with the Holy Spirit.
	Sister Mary Fridahl: Our Bishop has
called two of each association, to visit with
the other.
	Sister Annie Bowring: If we are not
subject to those placed over us, we do not
advance, and that is what we are here for.
	Emilia D. Madson: Let us strive to per-


form our duties, and remember the Lord in
the days of joy, and He will not forget us
in the day of sorrow.
	President Olivia Widerborg: I can bear
this testimony: that my sisters here are
earnest, faithful workers, I feel to praise the
holy name of our Father, in heaven, amen.
	Singing, "Guide, us, Oh Thou great
Jehovah.” Adjourned for three months.
Benediction Sister Barnard.
			Emilia D. Madsen, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.       263


W. H. P. R. CLASS. 
			WAYNE COUNTY.
	THROUGH the perseverance of Sister J.
S. Coleman, president of the Relief Socie-
ty of Wayne Stake, the W. H. P. R.
Class was organized at Loa, Wayne Co.,
January 8th, 1895 with an enrollment of
twenty-four members, increased attendance 
twenty-five, decrease one—ending March
2nd, 1895, with an enrollment of forty-
eight members.
	The motto of the class is “The Physical
Redemption of our sex to the glory of man-
kind.”
	The object is to study and understand
nature and her most holy laws, so
thoroughly that we may know woman and
all her needs through life, qualifying her
for her true mission of wife, mother and
nurse.
	The beautiful principles of life have been
most efficiently advanced by our noble
teacher, Sister Hannah Sorensen.
	With a practical knowledge of thirty-
four years personal experience with woman,
she has appealed to reason, while pointing
out the beautiful truths as well as the many
absurd errors found in the text book King’s
Manual of Obstetrics—By the aid of which
together with the anatomical chart and the
female—skeleton, we have studied
obstetrics in its truest form—giving to the
woman a perfect knowledge of herself as
well as that of her family.
	Hygienic laws have been treated very
seriously and carefully in all its details, as 
regards diet, dress, exercise, importance of
pure air, cleanliness, order, purity in
married life, regularity of habits, avoidance
of disease and treatment when they do
come. All so necessary to the health and 
happiness of mankind.
	All the class members have been exceed-
ingly punctual and attentive, very few hav-
ing absented themselves and those who
have been reasonably excused on
account of sickness Sister Sorensen says
it is the most punctual class she has ever
had.
	Surprising interest has been manifested
by every member all through the class, all
have strained their minds to grasp and
understand all the principles as they have
been unfolded so beautifully. As far as it
is known they (the principles) will all be
heartily sustained and supported by every
member.
	All who have taken part in composition
writing have shown how strong and
heavenly have been the impressions of re-
form—those who have not written upon
it have the same impressions at heart.
	Testimonies have been borne by all either
written or orally, with a very few excep-
tions, that now life is more dear and future
hope more bright than ever before, that
they can appreciate and acknowledge God’s
workmanship in beautiful nature which has
opened to our view so much more glorious
grandeurs and harmonious purposes than
had ever before even been thought of. Many
heretofore mysteries of woman’s mission
have been revealed as being natural effects
of natural causes—God’s hand but not al-
ways God’s will can be seen in the disas-
trous works of the destroyer as he claims
the prey resulting from nature’s broken
laws.
	The principles of the Gospel, which are
so much in harmony with the class work,
have been made more plain, now we under-
stand why God has given His command-
ments.
	Acquaintances have been formed in this
class which will bring reflections of joy and
pleasure to those participating therein. The
members have expressed themselves as be-
ing thankful to God for the privilege they
have had of attending this class. All have
learned to love Sister Hannah Sorensen
very dearly as teacher and friend, and felt
to bless her every day of her life together
with Sister J. S. Coleman.
	The closing exercises consisted of com-
positions and lectures on subjects studied in
the class, intermingled with miscellaneous
exercises and remarks by the brethren and
testimonies of a few of the class members.
MARY YOUNG, Sec.


PAROWAN ITEMS.
Editor Exponent:
	WE believe its about time we should re-
port ourselves, therefore embrace the
present opportunity. Our Primary As-
sociation has just been reorganized on
account of its former president Mrs. S. A.
Adams having resigned, her health not
permitting her attendance. The primary
children were loth to part with their presi-
dent, her gentle loving ways had complete-
ly won them over, however the co-offi-
cers displayed much wisdom in choosing
Sister Ellen Davenport to fill the vacancy.
M. A. Rasmussen and Annie Gurr were
sustained as her counselors, and with the
assistance of the parents, we doubt not but
our Primary Association will continue in
the same beautiful course, that has hereto-
fore marked its movements.
	March 1st, was celebrated with a ball
given by the Relief Society for the benefit
of the missionaries, the cash proceeds were
accordingly donated for that purpose, while
the wheat taken for tickets was added to
the already stored by the Relief Society,
about twelve hundred pounds was received.
The party was one of social enjoyment with
an old time picnic at eleven p. m.
	The W. S. A. is doing a lively work, its
nterests have never flagged, the meetings
are well attended, the programmes always
fully carried out.
	March 5th the W. S. A. gave a ball for
the purpose of getting means to connect
ourselves with the Territorial organization,
believing it would be pleasanter and easier
to get the whole amount this way than to
collect of each individual, so we had a
“weight” party charging one half cent per
pound for the lady the gentleman fortunate
enough to get the heaviest and lightest
weight, getting his ticket free gratis, a
group picnic intervened and we had an
enjoyable evening all round.
			E. CRANE WATSON, Sec.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.
CEDAR CITY W. S. A

	MINUTES of organization of Woman’s
Suffrage Association at Cedar, March 18,
1895. E. Crane Watson President of the
Iron Co. Suffrage Association with her Vice
Presidents Mary Ollerton and Bessie Parry
met with the ladies of Cedar, March 18,
for the purpose of organizing an auxiliary
branch of the Iron Co. Suffrage Associa-
tion.
	Meeting was called to order, and prayer
offered by Charles Adams. President Wat-
son spoke upon the necessity and benefits of
such an organization, said that gaining
knowledge and broadening our views in
political matters was its object with no
selfish desire of obtaining prominence, nor
neglect of woman’s first and highest duties
in the home. The officers were unani-
mously sustained as follows:
	Sadie Wilkinson, President. Mary Ann
Lunt Vice President. May M. Higby
second Vice President; Nellie Couchen Cor.
Sec., Katie Palmer, Rec. Sec. Maude
Lunt, President. Mrs. W. C. Higgins
chairman Ex. Com. members of the same.
Miss Bessie Parry, Miss Cadie Leigh,
Millie Adams, Clara Taylor, Mabel Arm-
strong, M. Burney, Mary R. Middleton, E.
Hunter.
	President Watson briefly explained the
system of conducting the meetings men-
tioned the necessary books and music need-
ed, and gave the executive committee some
beneficial suggestions in regard to their
work. She also requested the secretary to
send for information at any time and we
would do our best to supply it. The by-
laws of the County Association, and pro-
gramme for first meeting were read and ex-
planation given, when meeting adjourned.
			MINNIE ADAMS, Cor Sec.


PARTY AT LYNNE.
Editor Exponent:
	WE the members of the Relief Society
of Lynne Ward, wishing to show to our
president Sister Stova Thomas, our good
wishes and love for her prepared a surprise
for her on the forty-sixth anniversary of
her birthday, it being on the second day of
April.
	Most of the sisters met at the home of
one of her neighbors, at twelve o’clock all
went from there together to visit her; and
made themselves at home, and had a very
enjoyable time, both spiritual and temporal
with singing and prayer and blessing each
other. A poem was also read by the sec-
retary composed for the occasion by Sister
Anne A. Crane; at the same time we
presented her with a beautiful photograph
of the Salt Lake Temple after which Sister
Thomas expressed her heart felt thanks to
her sisters for their good feeling and unity.
Some of the sisters bore testimony to the
goodness of God after feasting and having
a good time in general we returned to our
homes all declaring it a most enjoyable
affair.
		SARAH A. THOMAS, Sec., R. S.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE ground was broken and the first
stone laid for the Woman’s Building of the


Cotton States and International Exposition
last week, in the presence of a very large
crowd, Mrs. Joseph Thompson, President
of the Woman’s Board, made a short speech,
and then with a trowel furnished by the
contractor, laid the first stone of the struc-
ture. The Woman’s Building will be com-
pleted early in July.
	THE annual pamphlet of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association,
contains the minutes of the Atlanta Con-
vention reports of plan of work committee,
Kansas and New York Campaigns, stand-
ing committees, and of auxiliary States,
the resolutions, National and local constitu-
tions, list of the officers of the National
Association, and life members, financial re-
port for 1894, list of standing committees,
and much other information of value.
Every suffragist should order a copy at
once. Price fifteen cents. Address Harriet
Taylor Upton, Treasurer, Warren, Ohio.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES.

	DIED at Paragoonah Iron Co. November 11,
1894, of general debility, Margaret Owens, wife of
Thomas R. Owens, born at Cafan—Coedy, Cyr-
mer Brekonshire, South Wales, Nov. 4th, 1831,
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
terday Saints in 1848; emigrated to America in
1859, emigrated to Utah in 1863. She bore her
afflictions without a murmur and died firm in the
faith. She leaves a husband, seven children, and
twenty-one grand-children to mourn her loss.
Sister Owen was also a teacher in the Relief
Society of Paragoonah ward, and she is greatly
missed in the Society. May she rest in peace un-
til the morning of the first resurrection.
				MARY E. FORSYTHE.

	WE are called to mourn the death of our be-
loved Sister Mary Anderson, who died of an
operation of a tumor, Jan 2nd, 1895. Sister Mary
was born in Denmark, July 15th, 1843; was Coun-
selor in the Big Cottonwood Ward Relief Society
which office she has faithfully filled. She was
quiet and unassuming in her disposition but
firm in the principles of her religion.
	She was faithiul in the performance of her
duties, working for the benefit of the society,
visiting the poor and comforting those in trouble;
her name is worthy of record. She leaves a kind
husband and a host of friends to mourn her loss,
her children died in their infancy.
								COM.

	IN memory of Mrs. Hannah M. Wright who
died on March 3rd, 1895, at her home in Mill
Creek, Salt Lake Co.
	She was born in Sheffield, England, March 7th,
1814, and was the daughter of George and Ann Wat-
son. She was the wife of Elder Joseph Wright
deceased; and leaves two sons three daughters,
twenty five grand-children and eighteen great
grand children to mourn her loss.
	Brother and Sister Wright emigrated to Utah in
the year 1849, located in Salt Lake City, for a
short time, then moved to Mill Creek Ward
where she resided until her death.
	Sister Wright was a faithful Latter-day Saint.
She was all that constitutes a true woman, gentle
and kind in her domestic circle, she was a lov-
ing wife and mother. Possessing great faith
caused her to withstand acute suffering in order
that she might cleave unto her family as long as
possible. Her parting was as peaceful as though
quietly falling asleep. She was surrounded by
all her children, all that loving hands could do for
her was done.
	She was a faithful member of the Relief Society
altho’ unable to meet with her sisters, she liberally
donated to the poor and suffering.
	She performed a noble work in the St. George
Temple for her dead. Brother Wright was one
of the first who was called to Dixie to settle that
country, he obeyed the call taking a part of the
family with him.
	Sister Wright’s funeral was held in the Mill
Creek Ward House; the services were conducted
by Bishop J. C. Hamilton; appropriate remarks
were made by President Joseph E. Taylor, Bishop
McRae, Elder John Kedington and several of the
local brethren, which were very consoling to the
bereaved family.
	The remains were followed to the Ward Ceme

[Column 2]
tery by a concourse of loving relatives and friend-
to pay their last respects to the dear departed ones
			ELIZABETH HILL, President.
			FRANCES H. HANSEN, Sec.

	At 6-30 p. m. on Sunday March 31st, 1895, Mrs.
Sarah B. Saunders, passed away from this life, at
the age of sixty-four years, having been born at
Studley Green, Wiltshire, England, April 27, 1831.
She embraced the Gospel in her native town, in
the year 1850 and was baptized by Elder John
Chislett. She left her native land for the Gos-
pel’s sake, in the year 1853, arriving in Salt Lake
City in 1854.
	In November of the same year she became the
wife of the late Henry Saunders of Provo.
	From that time until her death she has been a
faithful member of the Church. Also an active
worker in the Relief Society, having held the
office of treasurer of the Relief Society of the
First Ward, from its organization under Presi-
dent Young, in May 1868. She embraced the
Patriarchal order, of marriage and lived it. For
many years she was an earnest worker in the
Sabbath School.
	On the morning of March 10, 1895, she was
stricken with paralysis, she bore this sad affliction
with the patience and fortitude which has charac-
terized her life. Though she could not speak,
yet with a smile and a nod did she recognize
everything that was done for her.
	She never rallied from the stroke, but passed
away peacefully at the time mentioned.
	Her funeral was held Tuesday, April 2nd 1895,
at the First Ward Meeting House. The Relief
Society in a body followed the mourners, each
wearing a white badge. The white casket was
covered with choice flowers, the gifts of her nu-
merous friends.
	The sentiment in evergreen on the wall, “Live
to have no enemies,” was beautifully illustrated in
her life.
	Bishop Knudsen presided. The choir rendered
“Hark from afar a funeral knell.” Prayer by
Counselor Collough, after singing, “Down by the
River’s Verdant Side.” Elder James E. Daniels
read a sentiment to her memory from the Relief
Society, testifying to her integrity and faithful-
ness.
	Mrs. Electa Bullock read the following poem
by Mrs. Lydia D. Alder Salt Lake City.

A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
(In memory of Sister Sarah B. Saunders.)
So die the beautiful!
	Beautiful of thought and beautiful of life;
As the radiant sun in the crimson West,
	Sinks o’er the world’s sad strife.

So die the beautiful!
	Who pass from earth away;
In worlds of light arrayed in white
	They dwell in endless day.

So die the beautiful, 
Who leave life’s weary load;
With sandals loose, tread the golden streets,
	Of our Father’s blest abode.

So die the beautiful!
	At eve they go to rest;
And sleep the sleep of Death’s repose
	Like babe on mother’s breast.

So live the beautiful!
	The beautiful who never die;
Soothed by Love’s breath, on the other shore,
	Life’s river rolling by.

So live the beautiful!
	For loved ones clasp the trembling hand;
And open wide the pearly gates,
	That guard the “Better Land.”

O glorious life for the beautiful,
	Who trod the weary way
Up the toilsome steep with aching feet,
	With falling tears would pray.

So live the beautiful!
	When the race is safely run;
And the Father says “Come home, come home,
	Thy life work is well done."
				Lovingly,
						LYDIA D. ALDER

	Patriarch George Halliday followed, testifying
to her many virtues in her early life in England.
Also Elder Edward G. Harding, spoke in the
same strain, being one of her childhood’s play-
mates. Counselor David John delivered
the funeral address, in a beantifully por-
traying the future destiny of the saints who die in
the Lord.
	The closing hymn, “Sister thou wast mild and
lovely,” was feelingly sung by the choir.
	After the benediction by Elder O. H. Berg, her
many friends were privileged to view her mortal
remains.
	A large procession followed them to her last
resting place. The dedicatory prayer was offered
by Elder Edward Peay. When all that was mor-
tal of this loved one, was left to sleep the sleep of
the just, until Christ shall come.
						COMMUNICATED.


THE officers of the Utah Federation, of
Clubs were entertained by the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club and the Reaper’s Club,
on Tuesday evening, April 30th, at the
residence of Mrs. H. S. Young, who kindly
offered her home for the reception. The
house was prettily decorated in Apple Blos-
soms and dainty refreshments were served to
the guests, a program consisting of music
and recitations, an address of welcome and
an original poem, added to the enjoyment
of the evening.


Salt Lake School Of Obstetrics
and Nursing.

	A NUMBER of students from this school
passed examinations before the Utah
Medical Board of Examiners on the first of
January and received licenses to practice
Obstetrics. Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp will com-
mence a Summer Class on the sixth of May
in the Fourteenth Ward Relief Society
Hall. The terms for entire course is ten
dollars. Books six dollars. Those desir-
ing further information address 34 S. 7 East
St.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
		Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
