VOL. 23.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1895.	NO. 20.


CONTENTS:

	The Art of Raising Silk Worms—Isabella E.
Bennett. The Poor Widow—William Crouch.
Cactus Papers. Silk Exhibit For Atlanta. U. W.
P.C. Lizzie S. Wilcox. Primary Fifth Ward
Logan—Emma Bunce. Hygiene And Physiology
	EDITORIAL:—Rev. Anna H. Shaw’s Sermon.
The National Conference. The Convention Ad-
journed.
	POETRY:—Woman’s Sphere—Laura Hyde
Miner. Reality—Geranium. April—R. M. F.
An Early Spring Day—L. M. Hewlings.


WOMAN’S SPHERE.

’Tis asked what is a woman’s sphere
	How should she act her part?
Is it to wear a smiling face
	To hide an aching heart?
To speak in accents soft and low
	Her irate lord to soothe,
With aching brow and weary hand
	His pathway render smooth?
This once was thought a woman’s lot
	Her only aim in life
But now she shines in every home
	Companion, friend, or wife.
So, with her heart and soul combined
	And conscience holding sway,
Her sphere is everspreading out,
	Where wisdom points the way.
				LAURA HYDE MINER.


For the Woman's Exponent:
REALITY.

DREAM on, beloved; why shouldst thou wake!
Why should the spell which holds us break?
Of thee, dear one, and for thy sake,
	Fair dreams I weave!
Life is so real, so fraught with care,
We may not trespass, though we spare
A mote of time for wish or prayer;
	Thus to receive
New strength, life’s future ills to bear,
	When love must grieve.

Dream on; or waking, let me still,
in thy kind soul one soft note trill,
One echo stir, one measure fill.
	With pleasure rife:
I would one beauteous garland twine,
One hope which should all joys combine;
For thee alone, forever thine;
	And calm all strife!
Life is so real, Love so divine!
	And Love is Life.
						GERANIUM.
May 3, 1895.


APRIL.

O FICKLE, playful April
	Say can’st thou ne’er be true?
Thou’rt like a pettish maiden
	Such freaks I never knew;
One hour all fun and frolic,
	Mid happy shouts and cheers,
Thy face aglow with sunshine;
	The next all clouds and tears.


Gay lads and bonnie lasses
	And children full of glee;
With young life bubbling over
	Are often moved by thee,
To ramble o’er the hillsides,
	Or through some fairy dell,
With baskets, cups and buckets,
	Oh! ’tis a shame to tell.

Right soon thy brow is clouded,
	Tears trickle down thy face,
Hushed is the merry laughter;
	And thou art in disgrace.
I fear thou art a coquette,
	Nay do not blush and run
I saw thee, slying, playing
	Peek-aboo, with the sun.

But ah! Thy days are numbered!
	Soon thou wilt pass away;
The leaflets, buds and blossoms
	Herald the coming May:
Then we’ll think of the sunshine,
	Forgetting doubts and fears;
Watching the buds unfolding,
	Forgiving e’en thy tears.
					R. M. F.


[Column 1]
THE ART OF RAISING SILK WORMS.
UTAH SILK ASSOCIATION.

	THE first to be considered is the seed or
grain, the best is obtained from moths issued
from the first cocoons spun, by the first worms
hatched—these are always the strongest, and a
good start is of great importance. The time
of hatching is about the middle of the moon
just as the foliage begins to come out on the
trees. The eggs should be brought from the
low temperature in which they have been kept
to a moderate warmth, gradually increasing
till the temperature is 75° or 80°. All foreign
people wrap the seed carefully in paper and
then in a soft cloth and place inside their
jackets, next the skin, this method insures an
even-temperature, with sufficient moisture to
make them strong; they should be examined
daily, and as soon as they show signs of hatch-
ing, spread out gently and place a few fine mul-
berry leaves on them, the little worms crawl on
the leaves and in this way can be moved to the
hurdle, (and the remaining eggs replaced until
they are hatched) spread the hurdles over with
straw ashes and cover with brown paper.
When they are provided with food by cutting
up the delicate young leaves and sprinkling
these over the young worms, being careful never
to touch the worms with the hand The hur-
dles containing the small worms should be kept
in an even temperature and be protected from
drafts, and sudden changes, and direct rays of
the sun, and feed the worms three times a day.
	The excrement of the worms must be re-
moved with the fibrous parts of the leaves
after the nourishing parts are eaten, and the
worms kept perfectly clean, or they will be-
come sick; this can best be done by placing
a few fresh leaves over them, and when the
worms come upon them, they can be lifted to
clean hurdles, and again supplied with leaves,
which are free from moisture,
	The worm casts its skin four times during its
growth, before each change it ceases to eat,
and must be left undisturbed and free from
noise; just as soon as it comes out of its skin it
begins again to eat voraciously, and increase

[Column 2]
rapidly in size after each casting. After the
first casting the leaves need not be cut, in-
crease the strength and quantity of the food
daily;—keep in mind that cleanliness, regular-
ity in meals, evenness in feeding day and night,
are the most essential points to bring perfect
success.
	As the worms grow larger the noise of their
incessant eating is like rain upon the trees.
The worms breathe through little orifices situ-
ated on each side near the legs, for this reason
they should never be allowed to become
crowded together but should be given more
room as they grow larger.
	No one should attempt to raise worms in a low
marshy place, for in such places the air is
liable to become stagnant, and charged with
noxious vapor, this with all obnoxious fumes,
especially that from tobacco, are injurious, and
often causes speedy death. Also remember the
insects are tender and must be protected from
sudden changes in temperature, hot weather,
being much worse than cold, if they are prop-
erly fed they will stand the cold and give more
silk, as they eat much more. Great care
should be taken to have the leaves free from
dust, and dry, but not withered.
	The worms should be watched very closely,
those unable to shed their skins must be helped
out; at the first appearance of sluggishness in a
worm it should be taken out and thrown away,
for if they are sick it will spread to others, if
they are lazy their cocoons will be worthless,
and it is better to give the room and attention
to the remainder.
	As they approach maturity the worm becomes
transparent, ceases to eat, raises and moves his
head from side to side, and should be at once
provided with small branches of brushwood or
straw (or small cornucopias made of paper) in
which they will ascend and begin to spin; they
should not be allowed to get close together.
They complete their cocoons in from four to
six days. The male and female cocoons are
easily distinguished, as the female is larger; an
equal number of each should be kept for pro-
pagation—and the rest exposed to sufficient
heat to distroy life, and prevent further pro-
gress of the moth; in this climate if exposed
to the scorching of the sun for three days,
their destruction becomes effectual, and the
cocoons are ready for reeling at any time.
	Those which have been reserved for the pro-
duction of seed, after the lapse of from eleven
to fifteen days the moth begins to push aside
the fibers at one end of the cocoon and crawl
out. The sexes almost immediately couple,
the males are thrown away and the impreg-
nated females are placed in a darkened apart-
ment for four or six days, and provided with
paper on which to deposit their eggs; each
female produces about 500 eggs, no food
should be given. Ants, mice, lizards, spiders,
and other insects are very fond of the fat ten-
der worms, and must be guarded against.
Thunder and lightning are very injurious to
the worms, and it is necessary in stormy
weather to cover up the windows so they can-
not see the lightning.
	To those who are beginners - in the work we
would say—commence by raising a few, watch
them closely! and learn their habits; by this
you will gain experience and will not become,
discouraged.
			ISABELLA E. BENNETT,
					Chairman Committee


WOMAN S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE POOR WIDOW.
	
	I REMEMBER one cold November night,
long ago, I was employed as patroling
night watchman, on one of the banks of
the River Thames, east of London, near
the standing point of my cold and lonely
walk were some old oak trees on one side,
and dried reeds on the other that had grown
between the bank and the water. The
cold biting wind, roared and howled in the
trees, and hissed and screamed among the
reeds. My thoughts took shape with my
surroundings, and were evil and only evil,
continually, vainly did I try to turn my
thoughts to good.
	I had no light, not so much as a match in
my pocket—why? Because I had stores of
powder in my care, hence the precaution—
	In a little while the evil had such mastery
over me, that I became alarmed! Stopping
in my walk I took off my hat with my left
hand, then raising my right hand towards
heaven, I prayed earnestly to the Lord to
deliver me from the power of evil, and give
me a good train of thought, that might be
cheering and profitable. That prayer was
immediately answered and one of the results
of that night’s meditation was,

	THE PARABLE OF THE POOR WIDOW.

	There was in the city a certain poor
widow, who feared God, and wrought
righteousness; and to all the anxious care
and toil of rearing her fatherless children,
there was added unto her much bodily
affliction, she was a great sufferer.
	And it came to pass in process of time,
when her children were grown up around
her, and she began to look to them for that
comfort and consolation, which in her con-
dition, she so much needed—that she was
sorely disappointed; even in this long
cherished hope of her widowhood. For
one treated her with cold indifference, and
seldom spoke to his mother either good or
bad. Another had caused her much pain
by his misconduct, and as age and infirmity
increased upon her, and there was no one
to condole and comfort her, the poor widow’s
heart began to fail, and her spirit to sink
within her. And she began to say within
herself, what availeth me that I have toiled
through all these long years of suffering
for the benefit of my children? And in the
anguish of her spirit, she cried unto the
Lord. Saying "O Lord, wilt thou be
pleased to make known to thy handmaid
how—all these things can be made to work
together for good, according to the
promises?” And the Lord answered the
poor widow according to her request, and
sent an angel to comfort her. And he
spake comforting words to the poor widow.
He said moreover, look around now upon
those that have health and wealth in
abundance: where are their bowels of
mercy towards the afflicted? But thy suf-
ferings have increased thy compassion, now
therefore, if thou wilt continue in well do-
ing, and possess thy soul in patience; thou
shalt be made a mother in Israel a messen-
ger of mercy! And when the poor widow
heard these things, she was content, yea—
her heart, was filled with joy at the pros-
pect of doing good.
	But it came to pass that the poor widow
died! And was carried by the angels into
Abraham’s bosom.Yea—her spirit did
soar towards heaven, even as the lark rises
up in the morning full of rejoicing! And
on the way she was met and embraced by
the holy ones, and she was glad because she

[Column 2]
was free. Having left all her afflictions be-
hind her, and thus she passed many happy
days in sweet and heavenly converse with
congenial spirits. Her youth was renewed
as the eagle, yea—it did seem to her, that
in one harmonious, joyous life, old age and
youth were blended.
	And as the memory of the past came
back to her recollection, she began to say
within herself, surely I have been in this
delightful place before, and some of these
were my companions, but there were others,
whom now I do not see. And she said to
the angel, “where are those my companions,
in whom I once, delighted. There was
Rachel, Ruth, Mary, Mercy and Evangeline,
where are they now?” And the Angel
grasped the widow's hand and wept as he
replied, “Alas! For them! They’re fallen!
They have been deceived aud seduced by
wicked men, who wooed and won their
virgin love, but to defile and ruin.”
	And there was, as though there had been
a veil withdrawn, and the widow saw them
afar off, in the place of their torment, there
was wailing and gnashing of teeth. And
when she saw them she wept sore, and re-
fused to be comforted, for she said, surely I
do remember them, when they were pure as
the angels.
	And she said to the angel, "let thy hand-
maid I pray thee, go down now, and pluck
them as brands from the burning?”
	And he said unto her “how?”
	And she said, “I know not, but it was
promised me that I should be a messenger
of mercy. Now therefore if there be
mercy in heaven that can reach even these,
O let me go down to them and tell them?”
	And he said unto her, "go and prosper!
and the blessings of all be upon thee, be-
cause thou hast prefered it before all honor, to
seek and to save the outcast! For behold
the bosom of the great Father of all, doth
yearn over these with exceeding compassion,
because they sinned not willingly, but were
deceived. Now therefore, thou art a mes-
senger of mercy unto them. And many
shall be glad for thy coming, for they shall
yet be redeemed and sanctified, from all
their filthiness will I cleanse them, saith
the Lord! And surely I will avenge them
upon their heartless deceivers in that day,
when I will cause them to be clothed in
garments clean and white and to sing the
songs of the redeemed, in the society of the
angels, while their seducers, who died as
they lived, impenitent shall be left to writhe
in their torment!”
	And because thou hast desired this at my
hands, blessed art thou, and behold, I do
give unto thee a promise. That all the
blissful emotion, of that holy—heaven born
affection, when thy maiden love was wooed
and won, shall be renewed unto thee, in all
its purity, aud increased unto thee in all
its delights for ever and ever!
					WILLIAM CROUCH.


VISIT TO EMERY STAKE.
Editor Exponent:
	ACCORDING to appointment we, Sister
Mary E. Irvine and myself left this City for
Emery Stake on April 17, arriving at Price
1-30 p. m. Were met by President Relief
Society, Sister Sarah Cox and conducted
to Bishop Frantzen’s where we were
hospitably entertained and held meeting in
the evening which was well attended.
	The City is nicely laid out and many 
beautiful shade trees planted. On 18th, we
proceeded in a carriage over very rough


roads to Huntington, 22 miles, where we
partook of luncheon at Brother and Sister
Pulsifer’s, thence to Castle Dale to meet with
the sisters in Conference. Brother Cox ac-
companied by his wife took us to Sister
Maria Olsen’s, President Relief Society and
we remained there two days. It was very
pleasant to meet with an old and valued
friend so comfortably situated in her new
home, also many other dear friends of form-
er acquaintance who have, through their
industry, made homes in the “desert.”
My heart was drawn out towards the
people there, to see how they have labored
and toiled in this desolate region to obtain
the comforts of life.
	We had an excellent conference which
was well represented from the various set-
tlements. The people are alive and zealous
for the truth. President Larsen spoke very
encouragingly to the sisters, also urged
them to sustain the EXPONENT which, he
said, conveyed much useful information and
should be liberally patronized.
	I should not forget to mention the high
appreciation held by the people generally of
the labors and influence of Apostle Lyman
who visits them occasionally and they ad-
here to his counsel and withal observe the
word of wisdom.
	On Saturday there was an interesting
Primary Conference showing that the child-
ren are well cared for. A young lad, from
Orangeville, whose name I did not ascertain,
spoke beautifully and seemed especially
adapted for presiding.
	After meeting we returned to Hunting-
ton and a meeting was appointed in the
evening. Stake President, Sister Larsen,
Sister Irvine, Sister Cox and Sister Pulsifer
met with the sisters from which I begged to
be excused being somewhat weary, I retired
early and next morning we returned to
Price where a meeting was appointed in the
evening. On Monday morning we bade
farewell to our kind friends and proceeded
homeward.				M. A. HYDE.


AN EARLY SPRING-DAY.

BROOK and breeze were singing
	Rejoicing to be free,
All the earth was springing
	To life, o’er mount and lea
Rosy day was dawning,
	Athwart the eastern sky,
Merry birds where chirping.
	“Glad Spring is drawing nigh.”
Winter’s reign is over
	All nature seemed to speak,
Spring the glad new-comer,
	Reclothes the earth complete,
Flocks roam o’er the hillsides,
	Cattle from stall are freed,
Spring’s storehouse is opened,
	O’er mountain vale and mead
Came ro earth that morning,
	Guileless and undefiled.
Seeming gift from Heaven,
	To Gladden with its smile.
With spring-time’s adorning.
	In its awakening bloom,
With love’s fond caressing,
	Welcomed, to heart and home.
All the world seemed singing,
	Peons of praise in song,
Airs from Eden laden,
	Float round the newly born.
Summer, Autumn, Winter,
	Again come spring’s fair dawn,
One brief year earth-given,
	Then to life immortal born.
March 24th.			L. M. HEWLINGS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CACTUS PAPERS NO 2.

HOW MARY ANN CIRCULATED THE PETl- 
TION IN STRINGTOWN.
	A NINE days wonder—a sensation equal
to that of the advent of a new circus or a
band of Assyrian beggars with a danc-
ing bear, has just been in progress; indeed,
the pulse of Stringtown has hardly yet quit
palpitating from its effects, and probably
will not until there is something more ex-
citing to take its place.
	You must know, we have a Suffrage As-
sociation in our town. It is but a youthful
affair, and its members are but children in
politics, etc. Yet it has been a thorn in the
side of many a good honest soul, and a
source of wonder and comment among many
who suppose we meet together to talk about
the men, and tear their characters to atoms.
Poor mistaken creatures, they never come
near to satisfy themselves as to our good in-
tentions, and our efforts to improve and lift
ourselves from the mire of ignorance and
superstition; but, hiding their heads, give
way to morbid forbodings of the terrible
state of society which will ensue if this
thing goes on. But in spite of opposition,
we are growing and gaining strength, and
like infants of a larger growth, are now
able to take a little bread with our milk;
while such opposition but serves as an im-
petus to renewed effort.
	We have a president of whom we are
proud, to say the least. So the other day,
when she called a special meeting, for the
transaction of “Special and important busi-
ness,” there was an immediate and hearty
response. Without going into details, we
were there given each a copy of a petition,
asking that a clause favoring equal suffrage
be inserted in the State Constitution then in
process of manufacture, with instructions to
canvas the town, and secure as many sig-
natures as possible.
	To all, this seemed a fitting and unex-
pected opportunity to remove some of the
prejudice existing against us, and with
cheerful faces we set out on our errands,
nothing doubting as to our complete and
unanimous success.
	I was assigned the district of Main and
Big-bug streets; and I at once set about the
business, thinking to finish my canvas that
afternoon, and report success in the evening.
I went into the mercantile establishment of
Puff, Duff and Digdeep, to purchase a pen-
cil and a paper of pins. In the absence of
something better to do, the proprietors stood
around the store, with some half dozen
other shining lights, talking with the
gravity of sages, on the subject of politics,
“Now,” thought I, “is my opportunity,
they will be just in the right mood for our
proposition.” Being perfectly well
acquainted with all, I had no hesitation in
approaching them, which I did, paper in
hand.
	“Gentlemen,” I said cheerfully, “I have
a paper for you to sign.”
	They at once exhibited considerable in-
terest. Mr. Puff took the paper from my
hand, and read it aloud to his colleagues.
An ominous silence ensued, followed by
Mr. Puff pompously and severely enquir-
ing.
	“Mary Ann Blinkenstoffer, where, is
your husband.”
	In the field,” I replied innocently, “at-
tending to his business.”
	“And where are your children?” “In the
school-room.” I answered simply.

[Column 2]
	“Where are your dinners?”
	“Why, in our stomachs, of course,” I re-
plied, flaring up, “And if I can furnish you
with any further details of my domestic af-
fairs, I will do so at some future time, when
I am in less of a hurry.”
	“O, come now, Sister Blinkenstoffer,”
said Puff in a conciliatory tone, “Don’t get
angry, I only said what I did for the good
of yourself and family, and should have
stopped when I asked you what you were
doing.”
	“Well,” I exclaimed, “I will tell you, I
too am ‘in the field,’ attending to my busi-
ness. My husband does not know of it,
but if he did, he would favor the move-
ment for proof of which assertion you may
ask him.”
	With these words, I picked up the paper,
and with all the dignity I could command,
walked to the door during a burst of laugh-
ter which I realized was at the expense of
the pompous Puff.
	I was recalled by cries of “come back”
“We want to hear more about this,” “I
want to sign that paper,” I swallowed my
wrath, and went back. For one hour and
thirteen minutes I stood, talking like a steam
engine by way of explanation, before I got
that crowd to understand what I really
wanted. Mr. Dohed was positive I was
trying to enlist members for the Suffrage
Association, and did’nt want his wife and
daughters to go there and get stuffed with
nonsense. He had a hard enough time to
get along with them as it was, and he did’nt
know what would become of him in case
they put on any more airs.
	Digdeep signed the paper first and with-
out comment, but with a merry twinkle in
his eyes that spoke volumes.
	Duff did’nt want his wife closeted all
night with a crowd of drunken Jurors. In
vain I explained that such a thing was im-
possible under existing laws. I met it
everywhere, and from all classes, until I
finally decided that it was high time women
were admitted on a jury if drunken mem-
bers were so universal an institution.
	Mr. Feereful said women were exempt from
service in case of war and if they had equal
suffrage they would hence have more rights
than men, which would be entirely wrong.
	“Indeed,” I said with spirit, “That re-
mark is equivalent to admitting that our
cause is just and right. Besides, you are
wrong in the idea that women are exempt
from service.”
	“How so?” he asked.
	“Why, women have the very hardest
time of all during a time of war?”
	“Please explain.”
	“Well,” I went on, “they have the care
of the home and family, the anxiety for ab-
sent loved ones, and—”
	‘And what?”
	“Well,” I said slowly and impressively,
“If it were not for the women, where
would be your soldiers? An army of men
represents a degree of labor and care, pain
and anxiety which cannot be estimated.
Oh, there is no use denying it, women have,
and always have had, the hardest row to hoe
in this world. ’
	Mr. Feereful signed the paper; so did
many others, only Puff, Duff and Dohed
standing aloof.
	A sudden twang from the brazen-faced
advertisement clock warned me that time
was flying and I made a hasty exit, leav-
ing them to talk over the shocking affair at
their leisure.

[Column 3]
	I encountered Councilor Thin-skin at his
gate and accepted his gracious invitation to
accompany him into his house, with visible
satisfaction. With great urbanity he listened
to my request, and with great deliberation
proceeded to argue me out of my views.
	“You see Mrs. Blinkenstoffer, heaven has
implanted in the human breast a feeling—
call it love or sentiment—or what you like,
a feeling—which, between the sexes, may
be likened to a golden chain. It holds man
and woman together; It is as different from
all other feelings as you can imagine, and
while it is strong as steel when properly
nourished, a single false-step will break the
link and they each fly off at a tangent and
it requires a twenty horse power engine to
bring them together—”
	“Oh, Judge,” I exclaimed laughing in
his face at this mixture of sentimentalism
and engineering, “What has all this fol-de-
rol to do with the question. Are you go-
ing to sign or not?”
	“Hold on, Mrs. B. I’m coming to that
directly, I was just going to remark that I
believe this here Woman’s Suffrage busi-
ness is going to break a link of this golden
chain, and if it does, we’ll all go to the
dickens together.”
	“Well” I replied cheerfully, “so long as
we go together it will be all right. There
is nothing one-sided about that. Now I’ve
got your wife’s and daughter’s signature,
am I going to have yours?”
	“I suppose so,” he replied as meekly as
need be. This done, he started again
on his subject, and I left him in the midst
of a sublime syllogism on the unity of the
male and female elements which ended,
I can’t tell where or how.
	Richard Benjamin Singleman, bachelor
aged fifty-seven, next claimed my attention.
He lives on the corner of Big-bug and Lit-
tle-fellow Streets with his aged and widow-
ed mother, the meekest little woman in the
world, as his housekeeper. In response to
my question she simply said, “Ask Dicky
Ben—” In reply to my question as to
where I should find that interesting crea-
ture, she said, “In the back yard.”
	I found him in the act of filling his
buckets with food for his pigs. I told him
I had a paper for him to sign.
	“All right,” he said, come with me out
to the pig-pen and be tellin’ me ‘bout it
while I work.”
	I followed his denim clad form, bent un-
der its heavy load down the narrow path
leading to the odorous abode of that much
despised but useful animal talking a “blue
streak” the whole time, with the following
effect.
	Having emptied his buckets to the wait-
ing, grunting quadrupeds, he set them down
planted his hobnailed shoes firmly on the
ground, placed his arms akimbo, and looked
me squarely in the face from under his
shaggy, grizzled eyebrows.
	“Wall, you see, missis,” he began with
emphasis, “Such fellers as me an’t sposed
to have an opinion on these here subjects,
but we’ve got ’em all the same. And my
’pinion is this. I find it mighty hard to
keep up my end of the neck yoke, as tis,
and I would’nt have no kind of show if the
women-folk get to be boss entirely. For
that reason, to save myself from bein’ com-
pletely squelched, I’m opposed to women
bein’ policemen and poll-tax collectors.”
Seeing me in the act of beginning a remark
he said hastily—
		[Continued on page 275.]


CACTUS PAPERS NO. 2.
[Concluded from page 271.]
	“You need'nt argy, for I haint no argy-
ment for you, I just simply won’t sign my
name to have a woman put over me as
boss.”
	Saying which he picked up his buckets,
and hastily entered the corrall, closing the
gate after him.
	I walked slowly away, thinking of the
weak, amiable old mother who in this case
held up the other end of the neck yoke; and
who had so dutifully told me to “ask Dicky
Ben,” and sighed to myself “Oh consistency,
thou art a jewel.”
	The Strong folks all signed with the ut-
most good humor; so did the Sensabal
family, with the exception of Miss Sally,
who declared that she had all the rights
she wanted, and when she felt herself to be
down-trodden, she would let us know, as
our services might then be needed, and
much to the same effect. It was now get-
ting along toward chore-time, and I thought
I must quit and finish in the morning.
	But as I passed the Post Office, I noticed
a number of acquaintances standing within
so I thought to make one last appeal before
hieing away to get supper and tend the
children. The crowd already had an inkling
of my business, things of so startling impor-
tance travelling quickly in a rural district,
so I had no difficulty in opening the subject.
Some signed gladly, some were afraid, some
did it because another d d, some did not do
it at all. There was much bantering and
arguing, but experience had made me wise.
I had learned to cut short a long dialogue
on a mazy exposition of views, and we had
a hot, sharp debate for some moments when
up sauntered Prof. Full pate, scholar and
gentleman, who had heretofore been ab-
sorbed in looking over a book.
	“Why, why, what’s the matter here,”
he asked enquiringly.
	“Nothing, only we want you to sign this
paper?”
	“Oh, all right,” glancing over it, “Any-
thing to please the ladies.” And he put
down his signature plainly and legibly, in
view of the assembled crowd.
	“Yes,” chimed in a voice from some ob-
scure corner, "and here’sanother for you to
sign Professor.”
	“Ah, indeed, this suits me too.” And if
the learned scholar and gentleman, did not,
then and there sign his name, again, on the
detested opposition paper, asking that the
suffrage article be placed separately before
the public.
	In great indignation I turned away, and
as I passed through the door, overheard an
old gentleman grumbling to himself—
	“It’s mighty funny that the wommen
folks don’t have sufferin’ enough naturally
in life, without wantin’ to go and hunt up
a lot more. They beat all, they do, for in
consistency.”
	I was angry, yet amused, I felt myself to
have been half insulted, browbeaten, made
fun of, and a great many other things, by
people whom I had esteemed as ladies and
gentlemen before, and my friends. There
was some comfort, however, when I opened
my paper and scanned over the forty-seven
names of strong and influential men and
women inscribed there. And when, in the
evening, I recounted my experiences be-
fore my husband and children, we laughed
away all the disagreeables, so that now I
am in as good humor as ever, especially
since we gained the object of our heroic


struggles, and kept the article in the con-
stitution.
	Long live and flourish the true-hearted
men who stood firm for equal rights and
liberty.
							CACTUS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made tor clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
spac one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
cout regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second class matter

		SALT LAKE CITY MAY 15, 1895.


REV. ANNA H. SHAW’S SERMON.

	THE next issue of the EXPONENT will be
No. 1. of Volume 24—and will contain
Rev. Anna H. Shaw’s sermon in full as
taken by the stenographer.


[Column 1]
THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE.

NATIONAL AMERICAN W. S. A.
	THE distinguished women who were ex-
pected here to hold a Conference of the
National-American Woman Suffrage A
sociation arrived on Sunday May 12, as
anticipated and were met at the depot by a
large delegation of suffrage women wearing
their colors, in carriages and the “Utah”
which accommodates over thirty people.
Breakfast had been ordered for the party at
the Templeton and afterwards the ladies
drove for awhile to see the city from various
points. In the afternoon the Rev. Anna
Shaw delivered a discourse in the large
Tabernacle to an immense congregation of
several thousand people. Miss Susan B.
Anthony followed Miss Shaw speaking for
a few minutes only, in a very forcible and
earnest manner. Bishop Whitney occupied
the remainder of the time.
	The Union service at the theatre did not
prove a union of ministers of the different
Churches as anticipated, but Miss Shaw
fulfilled our utmost expectations. Her ser-
mon was “The Heavenly Vision,” and we
greatly regret that we have not this elo-
quent sermon in full to use in our paper.
However the daily papers were very
gracious and made quite extended notices of
her address. The house was literally
packed.
	Monday morning May 13th, at 10 o’clock
the Conference opened in the City and
County Building in the hall where the
Constitutional Convention had been held.
The decorations had been left in place so
the ladies had flags and banners and stream-
ers as ornamentation, as well as beautiful
flowers in vases to greet the eye and make
the hall a pleasant picture. The large
lithographs of Miss Anthony and Mrs.
Stanton were hung in conspicuous places,
but the visitors themselves were the most
powerful attraction.
	Governor West who had been invited to
introduce Miss Anthony came early and
was on the platform to greet these celebrat-
ed women as they came in. The hall was
filled with men and women watching the
door, eager to see these famous ladies as
they entered the room.

[Column 2] 
The Colorado delegates who had arrived
Sunday afternoon came on to the platform
and after the stand was filled, the Secretary’s
desk was also filled up, every seat in the room
and many had to stand.
	The Conference was called to order by
Mrs. E. B Wells, and the Rev. Anna H.
Shaw offered prayer.
	Governor West introduced Miss Anthony
to the assembly with a very happy and
brief speech saying “It is a pleasure and
a distinguished honor to introduce one
whose fame is world-wide and whose work
has been devoted in the highest sense to
humanity, he alluded to her former visit to
Utah and the fact of her being introduced
by the mayor Daniel H. Wells, she carried
away pleasant recollections of her first
visit, and he sincerely hoped that the present
sojourn would be even more agreeable, as
she had come just after the Constitutional
Convention had engrafted into the Con-
stitution, into the organic law, a provision
granting equal suffrage to women. Gov.
West assured the ladies that the Constitu-
tion which provides for suffrage for wo-
men will be carried by an overwhelming
majority. (Applause )
	Miss Anthony’s response was very
gracious and her introductory address was
very complimentary to Utah. She alluded
to the gains made in securing school suf-
frage in twenty five states municipal suf-
frage in one full suffrage in Wyoming and
Colorado and practically in Utah, because
it is sure to carry. Her speech in full will
be given later.
	Gov. West also introduced the Rev. An-
na H. Shaw as one of Miss Anthony’s
most renowned and successful co-workers.
Miss Shaw made an eloquent address in her
usual bright and winning way which we
shall include when we publish in full. Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball the pioneer in the wo-
man suffrage work in Utah, welcomed the
visitors most cordially and referred to the
first visit of Miss Anthony and related
quite a number of reminiscences of past
work of these great leaders of the agitation
for suffrage.
	Mrs. Lyle Meredith Stansbury of Denver
and Mrs. Mary C. C. Bradford of the same
City were each formally introduced and
made brief addresses. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young Honorary Vice President of the
N. A. W. S. A. made a brief speech of wel-
come and was followed by Mrs. William
Ferry, of Park City, Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith and by Mrs. Joanna Melton a brilliant
and humorous Scotchwoman, who always
puts her hearers in a good humor. Next
came Mrs. C. E. Allen President of the
Utah Federation of Clubs, who sort of re-
 lated her experience, then Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne a pioneer woman of 1847, telling a
little of the early hardships. Dr. E. B.
Ferguson said a few words of welcome and
expressed her pleasure at the visit of Miss
Anthony, and the Rev. Anna H Shaw.
Hon. J. R. Murdock of Beaver was the
last speaker, he told the ladies he was a
member of the Legislature of 1869 and
1870 when the right of suffrage was first
conferred upon the women of the Territory,
and again had been privileged to sit in the
Convention which had made it a part of the
Constitution of the new state.
	In the afternoon Mr. and Mrs. F. S.
Richards gave a very large and elegant re-
ception at their handsome residence on A.
Street to over three hundred guests. The
house was very beautifully and artistically

[Column 3]
decorated with flowers vines, etc. In the
dining room where delicious refreshments
were served by daintily dressed young girls,
the prevailing color of the decorations was
the significant yellow, and the effect of the
arrangement altogether was very attractive
to the eye and displayed exquisite taste.
	An evening session was held with a
crowded audience, hundreds not being able
to gain admission. President Angus M.
Cannon made the opening prayer and Miss
Maude Pratt with the Cecelia Club rendered
very effectively and in excellent voice that
beautiful hymn, “The Psalm of Life.”
The Conference was adjourned to the As-
sembly Hall for the following morning
where there would be plenty of room.
	There was an enthusiastic meeting in the
morning of Tuesday, and in the afternoon
the ladies with about a hundred and twenty
five others went out to see the Lake and
the elegant pavilion at Saltair. Col. N. W.
Clayton, with his usual graciousness, kind-
ly consented to put two cars at the disposal
of the party, Mrs Clayton accompanying
the distinguished visitors. In the evening
the Assembly Hall was filled to overflowing
notwithstanding the many attractions there
were at other places the same evening.
	Hon. John T. Caine made the opening
prayer, and Miss Maude Pratt sang ex-
quisitely the beautiful song entitled “My
heart at thy sweet rest.” The speakers
were Mrs. Lyle Meredith Stansbury whose
paper was itself a volume of interesting
matter and very telling.
	Miss Anthony in her own original man-
ner gave a logical clear and forcible as well
as very pleasing address.
	Miss Shaw was the last speaker and car-
ried the audience in one almost continuous
round of applause.
	At 10-30, Mrs. E. B. Wells adjourned
the National Conference after the following
resolution, presented by Mrs. Mary Carrol
Craig Bradford, of Colorado had been
adopted.
	Whereas, great gains in the suffrage sen-
timent and achievement have made the last
year memorable: and
	Whereas, The women who have strug-
gled so long in order that the ideal Ameri-
can republic might become real have reason
to hope that the final incarnation of justice
in American institutions is near at hand;
and
	Whereas, The five states of New York,
Oregon, Nevada, Idaho and Utah have de-
termined to submit the question of full suf-
frage for women; and
	Whereas, The women of two states al-
ready possess full suffrage and the women
of one state municipal suffrage, and school
suffrage is enjoyed by the women of twenty-
five states: and
	Whereas the men of Utah have seen fit
to build the foundation of their new State
upon absolute justice, equality and freedom:
therefore be it
	Resolved, That the sentiment of this
conference is one of profound gratitude to
the men of Utah who have so unequivocally
and practically witnessed to their faith in
the principle of exact justice to all the citi-
zens of this new and glorious common-
wealth.”
	The visit of Miss Anthony and the Rev.
Anna H. Shaw is an event that will ever
be remembered as a red-letter day in the
history of the Territory, and the entire pro-
ceedings will be published at an early date.
We very much regret the limited space
which prevents our giving it all at once.


We are very grateful to the daily papers
that have devoted so much space to the wo-
man question, and have given such splendid
accounts of the proceedings of the Confer-
ence.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE CONVENTION ADJOURNED.

	ON Wednesday May 8th, the Constitu-
tional Convention which had been in ses- 
sion sixty-six days adjourned sine die, hav-
ing completed their work satisfactorily to
themselves; the members were anxious to
go to their homes and resume work in other
directions. The Constitution makers must
now be judged by the work itself when
submitted to the people as a whole. How-
ever there is little if any doubt as to the
final result when it comes before the legal
voters of the Territory. There is where the
test will be made, and we believe the victory
won. Statehood is preferable to Territorial
vassalage in which Utah has been kept so
long, and has waited for so patiently.
	There was considerable mutual congratu-
lation among the members on the success 
that had attended their efforts, and alto-
gether the winding up of the affair seemed
a happy termination of what has been, dur-
ing a part of the time at least, rather un-
pleasant working at cross purposes.
	This was particularly the case when the
subject of equal suffrage was on the tapis.
But finally the victory was on the right
side, and the winners were very magnani- 
mous towards the losers, and good feeling
and comradeship prevailed again after the
combat of words.
	The women of the Territory who were
anxious for equal rights and privileges were
exceedingly grateful to those who stood
fearlessly by their cause through the strug-
gle for their enfranchisement, and were
desirous of making some suitable expression
of their gratitude and acknowledgment of
services rendered: and realizing the arduous
labors of all who had taken part in the
work of the Convention, decided to make a
public demonstration that would show the
interest they felt, and their sincere ap-
preciation of the work of this great body
of delegates who were representing in the
assembly the people of the Territory.
	At last it was decided to give a public re-
ception at the Hotel Templeton, that these
men from all parts of the Territory might
meet as large a number as possible of the
people of Salt Lake City. It was entirely
voluntary on the part of the women who
made all the arrangements and carried out
the plan proposed that it should be a purely,
social entertainment. That it really was so
cannot be denied.
	And when the Constitution was finished
and the engrossed copy had been signed by
ninety nine members out of the one hun-
dred and seven the President announced
that it had been adopted. (Applause.)
There were no negative votes. 

SPEECH BY THE GOVERNOR.
“I presume that you have had enough of
speech-making during the sixty-six days
that you have been in session and I will
therefore not detain you very long. I thank
you kindly for this opportunity of making a
few remarks. While there may be some
things in the Constitution that I do not ap-
prove of, yet as a whole I give it my hearti-
est endorsement and believe that it voices
the sentiments of the great majority of the
people of this Territory. The unanimity

[Column 2]
that has existed between you in this work
bespeaks in advance the adoption of the in-
strument. The differences that have existed
among the people will disappear like the
night’s frost before the morning sun.
Your work has been well and faithfully
done and you need have no fears of the re-
sult for I say again that it will be received
by great acclaim, and rejoicing over the
prospect that Utah is to be disenthralled and
clothed with the full power of Statehood,
and be made a part of the greatest Republic
the world has ever seen. (Applause.)

DELIVERED TO THE SECRETARY OF
THE TERRITORY.
	At the conclusion of the Governor’s ad-
dress F. S. Richards offered the following
resolution:
	Resolved, That the Constitution having
been adopted and signed by a majority of
all the members of the Convention, and
duly attested, be now delivered to the Sec-
retary of the Territory, who is present in
Convention, to be filed in his office.
	The Constitution was here formally turn-
ed over to Territorial Secretary Richards
who on adjournment immediately took it to
the executive building for safe keeping.

VARIAN CONGRATULATES.
	“As we are now about to separate, I
think we have good cause to congratulate
each other, if for nothing else because of
the fact that this Convention has demon-
strated beyond the peradventure of doubt,
that all that was needed to unify the people
of this soon to be State, was to bring their
representatives together from every part of
the commonwealth so as they could look in-
to each other’s faces, judge each other’s
motives and learn that we are practically
the members of one great family. The re-
sult has been that every man has been lib-
eralized in his views We have found that
we are very much alike; that we are actuat-
ed by the same passions and motives, and
that we have had but one idea—duty. We
have felt that this Convention was fraught
with a grave responsibility and every man
has been impelled to put forth his best en-
deavors. No delegate can possibly carry
away with him any other impression than
he still has a part of his duty to perform.
That is to support the joint results of the
Convention. We have been laying the
foundations for building and lifting up a
great commonwealth. The dead past has
buried the past, and we have set our faces
towards the rising sun of the future. If
our work should fail we will have the conso-
lation of knowing that we are not to blame;
that it will not be our fault. We have
fought the good fight; we have kept the
faith, and if there is nothing further to do,
I move that this Convention adjourn, sine
die.”

THE PRESIDENT’S VALEDICTORY.
	The President was called for, and said
that in the closing hours of the Conven-
tion he desired to express his thanks to the
delegates for the regard and kindly treat-
ment they had shown him as the presiding
officer over their deliberations. He trusted
their experience would find embodiment and
life in the remarks of Mr. Varian. The
Constitution had been finished and placed
in the hands of the proper officers, and he
hoped that future generations would look
upon it as an instrument of freedom and
safety. He invoked the blessings of
heaven upon the Constitution framers and

[Column 3]
concluded by saying: “I will now call up-
on the oldest delegate to offer prayer. Mr.
Raleigh will you pronounce the benedic-
tion?
	Mr. Raleigh, offered the closing prayer
and at precisely 2:15 the Convention ad-
journed sine die.


U. W. P. C.

	ON Tuesday evening April 30th, the
Utah Woman’s Press and Reaper’s clubs
united in giving a reception to the officers
of the Utah Federation of Woman’s clubs.
	The officers who responded were Mrs.
Corinne M. Allen, president. Mrs. McVick-
er secretary. Miss Georgia Webber, treas-
urer. Mrs. Ferdinand Fabian and Miss-
May Teasdel, directors were present.
	The reception was held at the residence
of Mrs. H. S. Young and was a pleasant
affair. The evening was somewhat marred
however, by the absence of Honorary-
President E. B. Wells, who was expected
to preside, and also President E. R. Shipp
of the Press club. First Vice President
Ruth M. Fox, of the Press Club presided.
The members responded to roll call by
giving original sentiments, or a quotation
from the Bible. Mrs. Anna K. Hardy read
a letter of regret from Mrs. E. B. Wells an-
nouncing that, the death of a dear friend
and relative, had made it impossible for
her to attend.
	Vice President Fox, gave the speech of
welcome which was pleasantly responded to
by the visiting ladies. The Misses Emma
and Lyle Young then favored the company
with a duett. Miss Laura Hyde recited
“Nanny the Baby.” Mrs. R. M. Fox read
an original poem, “April.” Miss Maude
Pratt sang a beautiful song. Mrs. Laura
Miner made a neat little speech showing the
advancement of woman in the last forty
years and read a short original poem on the
subject, she was heartily applauded. Little
Frances Young gave a recitation and dance,
“Long Ago.” Then piano music by Miss
Olea Shipp: the ladies partook of refresh-
ments, and social chat was indulged in un-
til the time of parting. The badge of the
Reaper’s Club was displayed for the first
time that evening; which is three heads of
wheat tied with a bow of scarlet ribbon.
The rooms were prettily decorated with
spring flowers.
				LIZZIE S. WICOX, Sec.


SILK EXHIBIT FOR ATLANTA.

	IN Group 10—Class 47, among animal
and vegetable fibers, exhibits are mentioned
—Silk worms, silk in the cocoons: appara-
tus used in silk culture.
	In Group 41. Class 188. Raw silk as
reeled from the cocoon, thrown or twisted
silks in the green, boiled off or dyed in
hanks, skeins, or on spools: machine twist
and sewing silks.
	Class 189. Spun silk yarn and fabrics,
plain woven silks, lute-strings, sarsanets,
satins, serges, foulards; tissue for hat and
millinery purposes. Class 190. Figured
silk, piece goods, woven or printed upholstery,
silks etc.
	The foregoing is copied from the book of
Classification of Exhibit for the Cotton
States and International Exposition.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CURRENT LITERATURE.

[Including sketch of Fannie Fern.]
	IN this day when printed matter is
multiplied almost innumerably one cannot
keep up with reading even in the case of
books alone, and as for magazine and news-
paper articles it is entirely out of the
question; still when one looks upon the
class of literature of the present time, there
are some very excellent and useful new
books; and there are periodicals by the
wholesale containing ably written and in-
structive essays and papers on a variety of
practical, moral, and intellectual, as well as
metaphysical subjects.
	The Arena is classed about the foremost
of monthly journals at present, as compris-
ing the important subjects and live issues
and topics of the day, and time, and one
might get a very good idea of how the world
is rapidly moving on, by merely a thorough
perusal of this one magazine. It is how-
ever very expensive and one is apt to take
regularly to a cheaper journal with matter
more miscellaneous and varied, if not of so
high a grade.
	Speaking of books and their authors I am
constrained to mention Lilian Whiting’s,
“The World Beautiful” published in Bos-
ton last year. It is indeed a beautiful book,
and one cannot hesitate in giving such a
book to young people to read and pon-
der, it is poetry in prose, and truth in the
most delightful setting. There are so many
true sayings in it to cull from, that to turn
over half a dozen pages, one may greatly
enrich the store of thought; and the won-
der is how she could so clearly express the
thoughts that other women have felt just as
keenly perhaps, but were not able to give
even rude setting to, whereas Miss Whiting
has all her fine sayings dazzlingly polished,
and sharp-pointed.
	One chapter treating upon “Success as a
fine art” contains the following paragraph
which is as familiar to me in substance as
possible, and I am very grateful for the
fine arrangement of her wording.
	“To believe and go forward is the key to
success and to happiness. Doubt and dis-
trust are the negative and corrosive forces.
The enthusiasm for a high purpose calls in-
to being the agencies by means of which it
may be accomplished. Great powers attend
great thoughts, and, above all and beyond
all, among the creative forces is the power
of a great faith.
	“No life is successful unless it is radiant”
she says again. And later on in the same
chapter she says, “The one great truth to
which we all need to come is, that a suc-
cessful life, lies not in doing this, or going
there, or possessing something else; it lies
in the quality of the daily life.”
	In another chapter entitled “In newness
of Life” there are many things correspond-
ing to our belief in reference to prayer,
and answers to prayer, actually as marvel-
ous as circumstances in the history of our
Elders, when away upon missions, means
has been put into their possession
mysteriously as it were in answer to prayer,
and sometimes even when only through an
almost unconscious faith. After giving
some such examples she adds, "Humanity
needs to draw on its resources of Christian
faith,” and beyond this I believe more, that
humanity is now on the verge of the dis-
covery, and the development of this law.”
	I could go on quoting to the extent of the
time allotted me from this charming book,

[Column 2]
but I realize I must not dwell too long upon
one, when there are so many, but for our
Y. L. M. I. A. libraries, I do not know a
book more suitable, or one more likely to
help the student. Lilian Whiting is the
sister of Prof. Whiting of the Utah Univer-
sity, with whom you are most of you pos-
sibly acquainted. The family on the father’s
side are descended from Cotton Mather, and
on the mother’s side she is also of New
England people, though born in Niagara
Falls, New York. She was first employed
as a writer on the Cincinnati Commercial
and in 1880 went to Boston and began work
on the Evening Traveler as an art—writer;
in 1885 was made literary editor, and in
1890, took the editor-ship in chief of the
Boston Budget, which position she still oc-
cupies as far as I know. She is of medium
height, slight in figure, blue eyes, and light
sunny hair.
	I think it well we should know some-
thing of literary women, we are likely to
meet and that some of our sisters already
know, and who have shown us some atten-
tion, and so I want to tell you of Martha D.
Lincoln, whose nom de plume is Bessie
Beech author and journalist, she is the niece
of Brother Albert Brown and the cousin of
Samuel Brown of the Twenty-second Ward.
She entertained our Utah sisters in Wash-
ington this last winter one evening at a party
given to a house full of people, and urged
us to talk on our own subjects truly, and
though only Dr. Shipp, Mrs. Gates and
myself were present, we had a pleasant
time; afterwards we were all invited to dine
there but unfortunately we did not all ar-
rive in time. Mrs. Lincoln is much more
prominent than even our sisters who met
her are probably aware. She is very unas-
suming, but has been a very clever journal-
st and is still. She was born at Richfield
Springs N. Y. and educated near by, but
begun literary work at sixteen, contributing
to the “Morning Star” published at Dover
N. H. She married a medical student, who
has for many years been a semi-invalid;
they moved to Washington in 1871—and
the financial crisis of that period wrecked
her husband’s fortune and Mrs. Lincoln
then took to journalistic work in real earnest.
She corresponded regularly for the Daily
Chronicle, Republican, Union and Republic
and several Sunday Journals and also kept
up her connection with papers outside of
Washington. She wrote up President and
Mrs. Hayes silver wedding in the White
House and real weddings in that historic
house for the New York Tribune, New
York Sun, and Jamestown Daily Journal,
was reporter for the Cleveland Plain Dealer
at the same time, it is said the amount of
work she turned out was very remarkable.
In connection with two other journalists
she organized the National Press Associa-
tion, in Washington, July 10, 1882, it is
the first chartered Press Association in the
world. She was its first secretary and for
several years President. Her literary works
are “Beech Leaves” poems and “Central
Figures in American Science.” She does
many biographical sketches of famous wo-
men and is specially clever in childrens’
books. In 1891—she was appointed dele-
gate to the International Peace Congress in
Rome, and again in 1892 to the Congress in
Berne, Switzerland. The same year she
was elected President of the American
Society of Authors for Washington D. C.
which position she fills at present. She is a
tiny little creature, is very fond of her home

[Column 3]
and has decidedly domestic tastes. Mr. and
Mrs. Lincoln have one only son, he is mar-
ried and his mother is very proud of
being a grandma. Miss Mary E. Wil-
kins has two new books which have at-
tracted much attention of late—Pembroke
a typical New England Story of distinctively
Puritanical ideas, a type which we New
Englanders know so well, but that many
people would think overdrawn. It is amus-
ing in some parts, witty too, but affecting
in respect to sternness, rigidity and the sup-
pression of all emotional characteristics to
conform to the rules of propriety; the
self-abnegation that one will endure rather
than let their true feelings be known, and
the pride which supports one on the border 
of starvation, lest the neighbors should
know it, are all faithfully depicted. It is a
finely drawn pen picture of what might
easily have occurred, and the main points
are true to life. The “New England Nun” 
and other stories is her latest book, and is a
collection of short stories, that are very
popular, hen-pecked husbands and domineer-
ing wives, and husbands who took excellent
care of their stock, who had barns, saddle
and carriage houses, all sorts of farming im-
plements and plenty of help, but who left
the wife and daughters a house not as good
as the barn to live in, and all the hard work
of a farmer’s wife to do, but never considered
her need of help, or rooms in which to make
a family comfortable; all these are set forth
vividly. The descriptions of pine woods
and shrubbery the old-fashioned flower
gardens, with sweet peas and four o’clocks,
the meadows fresh with cowslips and clover,
all the charm of rural life is beautifully told
along with the stories; the morals are all
good, there is no lackadasicalness about
them; they are such vivid pictures of inci-
dents and scenery that you might shut your
eyes and see the representation, and almost
catch the odor of the pines and hear the rip-
pling brooks. Miss Wilkins was born in
Randolph, Mass., and comes of an old New
England family. She was educated at
Holyoke, her father died when she was
twenty two and it is said she is the last of
her family; her first success in writing,
though she had written several things be-
fore, was a prize story for a Boston paper,
and she soon became well known afterwards
as a regular contributor to periodicals. The
first production she was paid for, was a bal-
lad for Wide Awake, she wrote for the
Budget, Harper's Bazar, Weekly Maga-
zine and Young People. She has published
several books, her best works besides those
have mentioned are “The Humble ro-
mance,” “Two Old Lovers,” “A
Symphony in Lavender,” I cannot speak
of these from experience as I have never
read them; but her books and stories are
very popular and as she is still a young wo-
man she may yet attain greater celebrity,
than even by her stories and verses.
Maria Louise Pool is another New Eng-
land writer who is creating a sensation with
her books, so truthfully characteristic are
they of country and village life and the
humdrum common-places of the great mass
of the working people, that they appeal to
the hearts of the readers of this class of
literature pathetically. The shrewdness
and thrift, the reticence and silence, that
covers the warm and kindly heart, the New
England exclusiveness, the individual and
specific details, all help to make her books
characters of real everyday folks. She has
lived until recently in an old-farm house


[Column 1]
away up in the country; she is not young,
but her life has been a very congenial one,
free from the vicissitudes that break in up-
on this class of work. Miss Pool was born
near the seashore in the old Bay State, and
Boston was of course the “Mecca of her
hopes.” She wrote first for newspapers,
her first book was a collection of letters en-
titled “A vacation in a buggy.” It is said
all her books have an individual flavor and
freshness very attractive. Tenting at Stony
Beach and Dally were among her first nov-
els. then came Roweny in Boston, Mrs. Keat
Bradford, “The two Salvinis, Katherine
North” and “Out of Step.” She has work-
ed hard and has had many refusals, of her
work though apparently she was nothing
daunted. She says she has a collection of
printed forms of refusals from publishers.
For some years while doing so much literary
work she kept a riding pony, and she also
drove a horse, which exercise brushed away
the cobwebs from her brain; she always
works from nine to twelve in the morning;
at present she is taking a rest on account of 
her health.
	Marie Corelli has been written up once
by one of the members of this club and
I will only mention her new book “The
Silence of the Maharajah,” it is in the
"Violet Series” a new style of binding,
very dainty in cover with illustrations of the
subject that are extra fine; the book describes
English society in India and the entertain-
ment of an East Indian Prince by the Society
people; it is a queer book like most of her
work and can scarcely be called good, mor-
ally, yet it is meant to give the contrast be-
tween vices of our own country and the
heathen, or oriental superstitions and beliefs,
placing us as civilized people at a decided
disadvantage. But Marie Correlli must be
a powerful genius; she deals largely in the
marvelous and attempts great heights and
flights of fancy and sometimes she comes
down to earth suddenly and disappoints us
sadly, but taken as a whole her books are
very fascinating, so different from other
people’s books that one must admit she has
developed a new style. It is not more than
six years since her books came out, and in
that time her fame has reached through the
world. I believe I have read all her books
except one “Barabbas” that I have not seen
or even a review of it though I confess I
should like to, “Thelma” is certainly her
best in my judgment and is vividly written.
Every Norwegian ought to read it, the word
painting is specially fine and the story of the
land of the Norsemen is rich in beauty of
land and sky, salt seas and raging billows,
ice and snow, making a strong impression
upon the reader who in imagination is
carried away to this beautiful far-off
country of the midnight sun. Miss
Correlli is a Venetian type of beauty, light
and fair with fluffy golden hair, and very
girlish in style and manner, her eyes are
blue, her smile charming, and she has beauti-
ful teeth and exquisite hands; she is a bril-
liant talker but does not speak much of her-
self; evidently she is of a high order of in-
tellectuality as one must judge from her
books as well as the description of her per-
sonality. She has had very strange experi-
ences, akin to revelation which have so im-
pressed her that she cannot be persuaded to
speak of them. She is decidedly un-
orthodox, though she is a Roman Catho-
lic yet the devout Catholic regards her as a
heretic.
	Fanny Fern some years ago created quite

[Column 2]
a furore in the literary world of that date.
Undoubtedly she was a decided genius, and
most of us who lived so long ago, recollect
with what eagerness we looked forward for
the New York Ledger, not only for Mrs.
E. D. N. Southworth’s novels but Fanny
Fern’s racy articles so keen and cutting on
every question of the time. Her books are
still read with great interest by all old-
fashioned people and are well calculated to
impress young people with correct ideas of
life. Her style was rich and graceful as
well as humorous, and the world were
ready enough to admit she was highly gifted,
though it was not known until after a strug-
gle with poverty and troubles that made it
positively necessary for her to make an ex-
tra exertion to obtain a livelihood. Her real
name was Sarah Payson Willis and she was
born in Portland Maine July 9th 1811—her
father was a compositor and editor and her
brother N. P. Willis the poet. In her girl-
hood she was fond of books though not of
regular study and she often played truant,
she was very mischievous and played all
sorts of naughty tricks making her little
friends uncomfortable by turns; she liked
to be out of doors and in fact was somewhat
unmanagable. Her father a strong
orthodox was a great believer in what
Yankees call “the becomings”—and there-
fore could not understand his daughter’s
waywardness. As she grew older she was
decidedly charming, but she loved freedom
and was in no hurry to marry though she
had many admirers; at twenty-six she mar-
ried Mr. Eldredge, cashier in a bank, son of
a Boston physician; the young husband
loved his wife almost to idolatry it is said,
they had three little girls, one of them died
of croup at three years of age, almost break-
ing the hearts of the doating parents, but
five years after the father and husband was
taken in the glory of his manhood and the
young wife was left a widow with two little
children to face the world alone. It is said
she went to her brother who was at that
time prosperous for advice in reference to
writing with a view of earning money, but
he discouraged her and offered no assistance,
though it is quite probable he did not know
of her destitute circumstances, as her hus-
band’s father had rendered her some help 
and had taken one of the children home to
relieve her cares. She did not heed her
brother’s advice but commenced writing, and
soon realized something substantial in the
way of remuneration; her family not sus-
pecting her nom de plume, were profuse in
praise of the young writer who was extra-
ordinarily fast becoming famous. Her book
Shadows and Sunbeams, is in every library
in the land, and other stories of hers are as
great favorites now as they were formerly
to those who are acquainted with the best
books; but taken in its broadest sense the
articles she wrote for the New York Ledger
were the best known and gave her greatest
celebrity. After living a widow until her
children were grown and she herself had a 
world-wide reputation as a writer Mrs.
Eldredge married James Parton, who was a
newspaper man and a magazine writer well
known to the general public. They lived
in New York City and were very devoted
and happy. Some years ago Mrs. Parton
died, though she maintained her brilliant
reputation as a writer until her last fatal ill-
ness. After her death Mr. Parton and the
daughter continued the house-keeping and
finally he married her daughter.
E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY FIFTH WARD LOGAN.
	MINUTES of the morning session, of the 
Fifth Ward Primary Anniversary, held in
the Meeting House, Tuesday April 23, 1895.
	President Mary H. Anderson presiding.
Meeting commenced by singing “Joseph
Smith’s First Prayer.” Prayer was offered 
by Sister Sarah H. Taylor. Singing, “Did
You Think to Pray.” Roll was called and
minutes of morning meeting of last an-
niversary were read and accepted with an 
amendment. Counselor Leoline Hurst
read the opening address in verse composed
by Sister Hattie C. Jenson (which we omit
for lack of space.)
	A recitation was nicely rendered by
Wesley Anderson. Aurelia and Fanny
Burnett sang a song entitled, “In the
Meadows,” A recitation entitled “Good
Morning,” was given by Janet Nelson. A
recitation entitled “Our Baby Boy” was
given by Violet Peterson. Questions and
answers on Church History were given by
a class of little boys and girls. Barbara 
Wilson gave a recitation entitled “Good
Manners.” A selection entitled “Our
Primary” was rendered by a class of little
boys and girls. Stake President Jane E.
Molen said she was struck so forcibly, when
saying her prayers this morning, to ask the
Lord to assist her on her journey. Before
reaching here my horse took sick and I was
afraid I would be unable to get here, but
the Lord answered my prayer, and so al-
lowed me to meet with you. Always listen 
to the promptings of the Holy Spirit, was
pleased to see the little boys step aside, and 
let the little girls pass from the stand first.
	Our primaries are for the purpose of mak-
ing us better Latter-day saints and to pre-
pare ourselves to grow up to be good and 
pleasing in the sight of our Heavenly 
Father; also to teach us to be gentlemen
and ladies, was pleased to hear that the
children cleaned the Meeting House. A
sketch on the life of President Brigham
Young was read by Harry Severn. A song
entitled “Did Jesus Love Them” was given 
by a number of boys and girls. Stake
Counselor Mattie B. Hanson said it would
be impossible to tell how pleased she had
been in listening to the exercises this morn-
ing. Some day all of you little boys will
be called on missions, if you live so as to 
be worthy of it; and if you do not know 
that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, fast and pray earnestly
and the Lord will give you a testimony for 
he said, “Ask and you shall receive,” but
we must be faithful and believe that he will
answer our prayers, What a beautiful as-
sociation you have! Your President and 
Counselors come to meeting week after
week to teach and instruct you, because of
the love they have toward you. Bishop
William Hyde said the Lord would bless
and comfort the parents of these children, if
they would come and visit the Primary once
in a while to see what the children were do-
ing, was pleased to see the children have so 
much faith. Asked the children to invite
their parents to visit with us in our meet-
ing this afternoon. Meeting was brought 
to a close by singing, “Zion is growing.”
President Anderson asked all the children

[Column 2]
to act as missionaries between meetings, 
and get as many to come as possible.
Benediction by Stake Counselor Emma
Pike.
	Minutes of afternoon meeting, President
Mary H. Anderson presiding. Meeting 
commenced by singing, “In our lovely
Deseret.” Prayer by Sister Priscilla Jacobs.
Singing “The Forest Song.” Minutes of
afternoon meeting of the last anniversary, were
read and aceepted. The exercises were
rendered as follows:—A moral story was 
given by Willie Hugi. A sketch on the 
life of President John Taylor was read by
Sarah Taylor. Song, “Think on These
Things” was given by a class of boys and
girls. A selection “The first principles of
the Gospel” was given by a class of little
boys and girls. Instrumental music was 
given by George Anderson.
	Stake Counselor Emma Pike said she was 
pleased to see so many parents here, as she
knew they would be paid for it. My heart
has been filled with joy to see the children 
take their part so well. I am sure the
angels are pleased with it too. I always 
feel at home when I come to the fifth ward
as I was present at the first organization.
Always remember that the eye of the Lord
is on you, no matter where you are, so we
should all try to be good and faithful child-
ren obey your parents, for the Lord says
“Honor thy Father and thy mother that
thy days may be long upon the land which
the Lord thy God giveth thee.” Hoped
and prayed that the children would remem-
ber their prayers. I am pleased to see Sis-
ter Jacobs and Sister Kent with us this
afternoon. Nellie Hayball gave a recita-
tion entitled “Christmas Eve.” Wesley
Anderson gave a recitation. Kate Ander-
son and Sarah Taylor sang a song entitled,
"What is home without a mother.” Sister
Priscilla Jacobs said I want to be obedient
and respond when called upon, I am pleased
with the good order that has been main-
tained also for the parts that have been 
rendered. I have not seen the day that I
could not say “God bless the Primary
Children.” I am glad that I have lived to 
see the day that order has been maintained
in Primary, as “order” is one of the first laws
of Heaven. We ought all to improve and 
grow better each year. I am sure the bless-
ing of the Lord is poured out upon us.
Always listen to the promptings of the
spirit of the Lord because he has given
each of us a portion of his holy spirit. I 
am sure I have been well paid for coming.
Sister Mary Kent was truly thankful that
she had the privilege of meeting with us
today in the thirteenth anniversary. I am
glad to see the improvement you are mak-
ing. Always be polite to the aged and 
obedient to your president. Nellie Hurst
gave a recitation entitled “A Mother’s In-
fluence.” A sketch on the life of Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff was read by George
Anderson. Song, “Suffer little children to
come unto, me” by the Association.
	The Lord’s Prayer was repeated by Archie 
McNeil, Sister Agnes T. Swartz said it
won’t be long before you will be walking
off into the Y. L. and Y. M. Associations.
If you try and learn now, when you are
called on missions, you will be prepared
to go. Stake President Jane E. Molen
asked for a vote of all the little boys that
would like to be called on missions when
they grew up. Read the Book of Mormon, 
and pray over it, then you will get a testi-
mony of the truth of this gospel. I was so 
pleased to hear the sentiments that were

[Column 3]
given at roll call. Be kind to your parents.
Have a place for everything and put every-
thing in its place. Prayed that we would
all grow up to be good men and women in
the sight of God. The officers were all
voted in. Bishop William Hyde said our
records are sacred and should be kept.
President Mary H. Anderson felt that she 
owed a vote of thanks to the visitors that
have met with us today. Meeting was
brought to a close by singing “We are the
children of the Saints.” Benediction by
Sister Harriet E. Stowell. Mary H. 
Anderson President. Mary Sorenson First
ounselr, Loioline Hurst Second Coun-
selor.		EMMA BUNCE, Sec.


MRS. MARTHA M. DAVIDSON daughter of the
late Bishop Maughen of Cache County and of
Mrs. Mary A Maughan of Logan departed this
life Feb. 4, 1895, Mrs. Davidson was born Nov.
4, 1858, at Three Mile Creek Box Elder Co. she
resided in Greenville Cache Co at the time of
his demise. Deased leaves a kind husband and
seven children (one only an infant) to mourn her
loss. Her aged mother is deeply afflicted at
parting from her beloved daughter who had al
ways been a loving and affectionate child, to her
parents and a very constant and devoted wife and
mother to her family. She was beloved and
greatly respected by all who knew her. She died
in full faith of the Gospel—blessed be her mem-
ory, may our Father in heaven comfort the be-
reaved and give unto them His Holy Spirit to
sustain them in their affliction.
								COM.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS


HYGIENE AND PHYSIOLOGY.

	SISTER HANNAH SORENSEN has just
started one of her classes here in the City—
it is held in the Social Hall, State Street.
Four days in the week—term to last seven
weeks, three hour lessons each day.
	The special subjects treated upon in these
classes are Hygiene, Physiology of woman and
Obstetrics, as far, as that science is practi-
cally beneficial for women to possess—who,
are mothers or expect to be mothers. The
object of these classes, is to assist woman in
learning her true mission in life and to be
more willing to fill it—to help her to realize
the glorious privilege of rearing God’s
children—to establish greater purity, to at-
tain to better health and higher happiness,
to help lengthen out, human existence here
upon earth. It is pleasing to know, that
these classes are most appreciated where
they have been taught. Societies in that
line, are now permanently organized in
several Counties, Utah Co., Cache Co.,
Wayne Co., and two counties in Idaho.
	It is desirable that as many of the Salt
Lake City women as possible, would unite
themselves with this class, now in operation
here in the city, as it has proved, that this
work is conducive of much good.

